Full text of "Al-BIRUNI'S INDIA" vol. I




Columbia 

in til* Cttp of 3$£to Port 

THE LIBRARIES 






T RUBN E R ' S 


ORIENTAL SERIES. 






ALBERim’S INDIA 


AN ACCOUNT OP THE RELIGION, PHILOSOPHY, LITERATURE, 
GEOGRAPHY, CHRONOLOGY, ASTRONOMY, CUSTOMS, 
LAWS AND ASTROLOGY OF INDIA 
ABOUT A. I L mo. 



Ilii JEiitilielj Edition, with tllorcy nuD Snhiccs* 


uv 

Dr, EDWARD C. SACHA U, 

Pi-ofufijijf ItL the Ivoy iU University -A Berlin, awl Principal 'A tlie Seminary for 
Oriental Langnagna Memhor of th« Iloyal Academy of lierlln, ami 
CorrcapdinfliiijT Menu her A the Imperial Academy nf Vicuna 
! I ■ ■»■ ,irji ry .Member uT the Asiatic Society of ft rent Britnln and Ireland, London, 
aiifl of the American Oriental Society, Cambridge 4 U.S.A. 


m TWO VOLUME 

VOL. L 


LONDON 

EEOAN PAUL, TRENCH, TRtjBNEH & CO. UP 

DRY DEN HOUSE-, GEKUAJiD STREET, W. 

1910 


3 ■ n e 

P i 

i 

Ctfr-p. a 


/'ftr? rijjfl&if 0/ Iranrialtofe itrLii of rcprtiduciion #.n 


tOi J j 


Printed by BalIiAhttjtb, Has^dk £t= Ckt . 

At the BaU&ntyua i-ruLks , Edinburgh 




i 

w 


©e&icateo 


Ti i 


0 H A E L E S S G H E F E R, 

MSMBftX PE .LIKSTITUT, PASlS 

AS 

A HOMAGE BOTH TO 
THE MAN AND THE SCHOLAR . 





PREFACE. 


i. 

The literary history of the East represents the court of MmM 
King Mahmud at Ghaznajhe leading monarch of Asiatic dim&i. 
history between a.d* 997-1030, as having been a centre 
of literature, ant] of poetry in particular. There were 
four hundred poets chanting in his halls and gardens, 
at their head famous Uiisuii, invested with the recently 
created dignity of a poet-laureate, who by his verdict 
opened the way to royal favour for rising talents ; there 
was grand Firdausi, composing his heroic epos by the 
special orders of the king, with many more kindred 
spirits. Unfortunately history knows very little of all 
this, save the fact that Persian poets 1 locked together 
in Gluana, trying their ka&tdas on the king, his minis- 
ters and generals. History paints Mahmud as a suc- 
cessful warrior, but ignores him as a Maecenas. With 
the sole exception of the lucubrations of bombastic 
Utbi, all co u temporary records, the Malcihn&t of Abu- 
Nasr Mishkani, the TalxikM of his secretary Bailiaki, 
the chronicles of MulE Muhammad Ghaznavi, Matin fid 
Warrakj and others, have perished, or not yet come to 
light, and the attempts at a literary history dating from 
a time 300 400 years later, the so-called TadhMra^ 
weigh very light in the scale of matter-of-fact examina- 
tion, failing almost invariably whenever they are applied 
to for information on some detail of ancient Persian 
literature. However this may be, Unsuri, the pane- 


PREFACE. 


Mahcoftdj 
and A3he« 
moi, 


viii 

gyrist, does not seem to have missed the sun of royal 
favour, whilst Firdausi, immortal Firdausi, had to fly 
in disguise to evade the doom of being trampled to 
death by elephants. Attracted by the rosing fortune 
of the young emperor, he seems to have repaired to his 
court only a year after his onthronisation. ix. a.t>. 998, 
But when lie had finished his Shdhndma, and found 
himself disappointed in his hopes for reward, he f 3 ting 
at him his famous satire, and fled into peaceless exile 
(A*D* 1G10). 1 In the case of the king mrsus tile poet 
the king has lost. As long as Firdausi retains the 
place of honour accorded to him in the history of the 
world’s mental achievements, the stigma will cling to 
the name of Mahmud, that ho who hoarded up perhaps 
more worldly treasures than were ever hoarded up, did 
not know how to honour a poet destined for immor- 
tality. 

And how did the author of this work, as remark- 
able among the prose compositions of the East as the 
Shdhndma in poetry, fare with the royal Maecenas of 
Ghasma ? 

Albernni, or, as his compatriots called him, Abfi 
Eailian, was horn A.Ib 973, in the territory of modern 
Khiva, then called Kliwarmm, or Choraamia in anti- 
quity. 2 Ihirly distinguishing himself in science and 
literature, he played a political part as councillor of 
the ruling prince of his native country of the MaVnuni 
family. The counsels he gave do not seem always to 
have suited the plans of King Malirmul at (xhaznu : who 
was looking out for a pretext fur interfering in the 
affairs of independent. Khiva, although its rulers were 
his own near relatives. This pretext was furnished by 
a military dvu&ute. 


1 Of, JL Mohl, Lc Lie re de& R<> is t tradmt-, Public par lime. 
Mold, 1876, preface, pp, xt m- 

- There is Lt reminiscence of bin native country, i, 166. where he 
speaks of a kind of mcasnre used in Khwit'izm, 


PREFACE. 


ix 


Mahmud inarched into the country* not without some 
fighting* established there one of his generals as provin- 
cial governor, and soon returned to Ghazna with much 
booty and a great part of the Khiva troops, together 
with the princes of the deposed family of M a ml in and 
the leading men of the country as. prisoners of war or 
as hostages. Among the last was Abft-ftaibftn Muham- 
mad Tbn Ahmad Alberuni. 

This happened in the spring and summer of A. in 
IO17. The Chorasinian prince s were sent to distant 
fortresses as prisoners of state, the Ohorasmian soldiers 
were incorporated in Mahmud's Indian army; and Al- 
bernui — what treatment did he experience at Ghazna? 
From the very outset it is not likely that both the king 
and his chancellor, Ahmad Ibn Hasan Maimandi, should 
have accorded special favours to a in an whom they knew 
to have been their political antagonist for years. The 
latter, the same man who had been the cans© of the 
tragic catastrophe in the life of Firdausi, was in office 
under Mahmud from a.d. 1007-1025* and a second 
time under Ins son and successor* Mas fid* from T030- 
1033, There is nothing to toil us that ATberani was 
ever in the service of the state or court in Gha^ria. A 
friend of his and companion of Ms exile, the Christian 
pMlosopher and physician from Bagdad* Abulkhair 
Alkhammar, seems to have practised in Ghasna his 
medical profession. A 1 her uni probably enjoyed the 
reputation of a great viunajjim^ %e, astrologer-astrono- 
mer, and perhaps it was in this quality that he had 
relations to the court and its head, as Tycho de Brahe 
to the Emperor Rudolf. When writing the li'StKri, 
thirteen years after his involuntary immigration to 
Afghanistan* he was a master of astrology, both ac- 
cording to the Greek and the Hindu system, and indeed 
Eastern writers of later centuries seem to consider him 
as having be ei 1 1] ie co u rt astro! oger of K i n g M ah in ud . 
In a book written five hundred years later (v- Ghresio- 


X 


PREFACE. 


m-atMv Permne, die., par CIl Seliefei\ Paris, 1883, i. p. 
107 of the Persian text), there is a story of a practical 
joke which Mali tu lid played on Alberuni as an astrnio- 
ger. Whether this be historic truth or a late invention, 
anyhow the story does not throw much light on the 
authors situation in a period of his life which is the 
most interesting to ns, tit at one, namely, when he 
commenced to study India, Sanskrit and Sanskrit 
literature. 

Historic tradition failing 11s, we are reduced to a 
single source of information- — 'the author’s work- — and 
must examine to what degree his personal relations are 
indicated by his own words. When he wrote, King 
Muhmftd had been dead only a few weeks, Le roi est 
w art — but. to whom was Vive h roi to be addressed ? 

Two liens claimed the throne, Muhammad and 
Mas ud, and wore marching against each other to settle 
their claims by the sword. Under these circum stances 
it comes out as a characteristic fact that the book has 
no dedication whatever, either to the memory of M Mi- 
ni fid f or to one of the- rival princes, or to any of the 
indifferent or non -political princes of the royal house. 
As a cautious politician, he awaited the issue of the 
contest; but when the dice had been thrown, and 
Mao' ud was firmly established on the throne of his 
father, he at once hastened to dedicate to him the 
greatest work of his life, the Cano ft Masudictis. If he 
had been affected by any feeling of sincere gratitude, 
he a flight have erected Era the J I riW* a monument to 
the memory of the dead king, under whose rule he had 
made tiie necessary preparatory studies, and might have 
praised him as the great propagator of Islam, without 
probably incurring any risk. He has not done so. and 
the terms in which he speaks of Mahmud throughout 
his book are not such as a man would use when speak- 
ing of a deceased person who had been his benefactor. 

He Is called simply The An&r Mahyrdd } ii. 13 (Arabic 


PREFACE. 


xi 

text, p. 208, 9), The Amir Mahm&d, j nay God's mercy 
be with him : i. 1 16 (text, p. 56, 8), The Amir Mfdfnvdd, 
raaytheyrf.f.ee of God he with him, Li. 103 (text, p. 232, 1 r). 
The title Amir was nothing very complimentary; It 
had been borne by hi a ancestors when they were simply 
generals and provincial governors in tlie service of the 
Siima.nl king of Transoxiatia and Khurasan. Speaking 
of Mahmud and his father Sab ukt agin, the author says, 
Y(Xmin-iddentJa Mah/ttvtid, nay God's mercy be with them, 
i. 22 (text. p. 1 t ? 9)h He had received the title JTamin- 
aldafla, Le> The rigid hand of the dynasty (of the 
Khalif), from the Rhalif, as a recognition of the legiti- 
macy of his rule, resembling the investiture of the 
German Emperor by the Pope in the Middle Ages, 
Lastly, we find at ii, 2 (text, p. 203, 20) the following 
terms : (( The strongest of the pillars (of Islam), the 
pattern of a 3 Lilian, Mahmud, the lion of the world and 
the rarity of the age, mag God's mercy be with him," 
Whoever knows the style of Oriental authors when 
speaking of crowned heads, the style of their prefaces, 
which attains the height of absurdity at the court of 
the Moghul emperors at Delhi, will agree with me that 
the manner in which the author mentions the dead 
king is cold, cold in the extreme ; that the words of 
praise bestowed upon him are meagre and stiff, a poor 
sort of praise for a man who had been the first man in 
Islam, and the founder of Islam In India ; lastly, that 
the phrases of benediction which are appended to his 
name, according to a general custom of Islam, are the 
same as the author would have employed when speak- 
ing of any acquaintance of his in common life who had 
died, lie says of MahinM (L 22) : "He utterly ruined 
the prosperity of the country (of India), and performed 
those wonderful exploits by which the Hindus became 
like atoms of dust scattered in all directions, and like a 
tale of old in the month of the peopled' To criticise 
these words from a Muslim point of view, the passage of 


PREFACE. 


xii 

the ruining of the prosperity of the conn try was per- 
fectly out of place in the glorification of a Glum like 
MahmficL 

That it was not at all against the moral principles of 
Albenmi to write such dedications to princes is shown 
by two other publications of his, with dedications which 
exhibit the customary Byzantinism of the time. In the 
preface of the iE Chronology of Ancient Nations J1 (trans- 
lated, &C., by Edward Bach an, London. 1S79), he extols 
with abundant praise the prince of Hyrcania or jnrjTui, 
Shams- alma' alt, who was a dwarf by the side of giant 
Mahmud. The studied character of the neglect of 
Mafirniid in the 'It'S**® comes out more strongly if we 
compare the unmerited praise which ALbemni lavishes, 
upon his son and successor. The preface of his Canon 
Mamdicufi is a farrago of high-sounding words in 
honour of King Mas' fid, who was a drunkard, and lost 
in less than a deoexmium most of what his father's 
sword and policy had gained in thirty-three years. 
The tenor of this preface, taken from the manuscript 
of the Eoyal Library in Berlin, is as follows : — 

To those who lead the comm unity of the believers in the 
place of the Prophet and by the help of the Word of God 
belongs “the king, the lord majestic and venerated, the 
helper of the representative of God, the fnrtherer of the 
law of God, the protector of the slaves of God, who 
punishes the enemies of God, Abu- Said Mas fid I bn 
Yamin-aldaula and ’Amin-almilla Mahmud — may God 
give him a long life, and let him perpetually rise to 
glorious and memorable deeds. For a confirmation of 
what we here say of him lies in the fact that God, on 
considering the matter, restored the right (i.e. the right 
of being ruled by Mas fid) to his people, after it had been 
con ceal ed , Go d br op gh t it to light. After ho h ad be en 
in distress, God helped him. After be had been rejected, 
God raised him, and brought him the empire and the 
rule, after people from all sides had tried to get posses- 


PREFA CE . 


xiii 

s i on of ifcj, speaking : f iJow should ho come to rule oyer 
u% as we have a better light to the rule than he?* 
But then they received (from God) an answer in the 
event (lit. feign) which followed. God carried out Tlife 
promise relating to him (Masud), giving him the inheri- 
tance without hie ashing for It, as Ifo gave the inheri- 
tance of David to Sol on i on without reserve. (That is, the 

dead King Mahmud had proclaimed as his successor his 
son Muhammad, not Mas (id* but the latter contested the 
will of Ins father, and in the following contest with his 
brother he was the winner.) If God. had not chosen 
him, the- hearts of men would not have been gained (?) 
for him, and the intrigues of his enemies would not 
have missed their aim. In short, the souls of men 
hastened to meet him in order to live under his shadow. 
The order of God was an act of predestination, and his 
becoming king was written in the Book of Books in 
heaven (from all eternity), 

u He — may God make bis rule everlasting! — has 
conferred upon me a favour which was a high distinc- 
tion to me, and has placed me under the obligation of 
everlasting gratitude. For although a benefactor may 
dispense witli the thank-offerings for his deeds, &c., a 
sound heart inspires those who receive them with the 
fear that they might be lost (to general notice), and 
lays upon them the obligation of spreading them and 
making them known in the world. But already, before 
I received this favour, I shared with the inhabitants of 
all his countries the blessings of his rule, of peace and 
justice. However, then the specud service (towards 
his Majesty) became incumbent upon me, after (until 
that time) obeying in general (his Majesty) had been 
incurdbent on me. (This means, probably, that Mas fid 
conferred a special benefit (a pension?) on the author, 
not immediately after be had come to the throne, but 
some time later.) Is it not he who has enabled me for 
the rest of my life (Alberuni was then sixty-one years 


XIV 


PREFA CE> 


old) to devote myself entirely to the service of science, 
as he let me dwell under tlie shadow of his power and 
let the cloud of his favour rain on me, always personally 
distinguishing and befriending me, &c. ? And with 
regard to this (the favour conferred upon me), he has 
deigned to send his orders to the treasury and the 
ministry, which certainly is the utmost that kings 
can do for their subjects. May God Almighty reward 
him both in this and in yonder world/* &c. 

Thereupon, finding that his Majesty did not. require 
his actual service, and besides, finding that science stood 
in the highest favour with him, he composes a book on 
astronomy, to which he had been addicted all his life, 
and adorns it with the name of his Majesty, calling it 
Can on Ma mrticws ( A Ikdmln A h?ms 'Adi ) , & c. 

To put the phrases of this preface into plain language, 
the author was in favour with King Mels fid; he had 
access to the court — living, probably, near it — and 
received an income which enabled him to devote him- 
self entirely to his scientific work. Besides, all this 
appears as a new state of things, the reverse of which 
had been the case under the king’s predecessor, his 
father, M ah mud. We do not know the year in which 
this change in the life of Albernni was brought about. 
Perhaps it was in some way connected with the fact 
t h at fl le cl iai icel lor , Ma i ( n a nd i , d i ed A . D . 1033, a rid tl 1 at 
after him one Abfi-Nasr Ahmad Ibn Muhammad lbt:t 
'Abdussamad became chancellor, who before, ix. from 
to 1 7 to 1033, had administered Khwarizm, the native 
country of Albernni, He and Maimand] had been 
pol i ti cal an t agon i sts— - n ot so h e a 11 d r A bd u ssatn ad. 

The difference of the author’s condition . as it appears 
to have been under Mass' ud, from what it was purler 
Mahmud when he prepared the is further illus- 

trated by certain passages in the book itself. When 
speaking of the difficulties with which he had to grapple 
in Ills efforts to learn everything about India, he con- 


PREFACE. 


sv 

tinues ; u What scholar, however, has the same favour- 
able opportunities of studying this subject as I have? 
That would be only the case with one to whom the 
grace of (jod accords, what it did not accord to me, a 
perfectly free disposal of his own doings and goings ; 
for it has never fallen to ray lot in my own doings and 
goings to he perfectly independent, nor to he invested 
with sufficient power to dispose and to order as I 
thought best. However, I thank God for that which 
He has bestowed upon me, and which must be con- 
sidered as sufficient for the purpose” (h 24), These 
linos scent to say that the author, both at G ha sin a and 
in India, at Multan, Peshavar, &c. t had the opportunity 
of conversing with pandits, of procuring their help, and 
of buying books; that, however, in other directions he 
w r as not his own master, but had to obey a higher will ; 
and lastly, that he was not a man in authority. 

In another place (i 1 5 2) he explains that art and 
science require the protection of kings. i( For they 
alone could free the minds of scholars from the daily 
anxieties for the necessities of life, and stimulate their 
energies to earn more fame and favour, the yearning for 
which is the pith and marrow of human nature* The 
present times, however, are not of this kind. They are 
the very opposite, and therefore it is quite impossible 
that a new science or any new bind of research should 
arise in our days. What we have of sciences is nothing 
but l ice scanty remains of bygone better times*” Com- 
pare with this a dictum quoted (i. iSS) : u The scholars 
are well aware of the use of money, but the rich are 
ignorant of the nobility of science, ” 

These are not the words of an author who basks in 
the sunshine of royal protection. The time he speaks 
of is the time of Mahmud, and it is Mahmftd whom he 
accuses of having failed in the duties of a protector of 
art and science imposed upon him by his royal office. 
Firdausi, in his satire (SI old, i. pr^f. p* xlv.} ? calls 


preface , 


xvi 

him if nn roi qm n'a mfoi ni hi ni manures ” [royrdm ) : 
and he says : £i Si le roi (ivfiit M 4 %n honime dvjne dc 
rmom, il nuraii honord le mroir " &c* It h most 
remarkable to what degree FirdauFi and Al hern ni agree 
in their judgment of Llie king. To neither of then; had 
he been a Maecenas, 

In the abeence of positive information, we have tried 
to form a chain of combinations from which we may 
infer* with a tolerable degree of certainty, that our 
author, during the thirteen years of his life from 1017 
to 1030, after he had been carried from hia native 
country to the centre of Malmnidts realm, did not enjoy 
the favours of the king and his leading men ; that he 
stayed in different parts of India (as a companion of 
the princes of his native country?), probably in the 
character of a hostage or political prisoner kept on 
honourable terms : that he spent his leisure in the 
study of India ; and that he had no official inducement 
or encouragement for this study, nor any hope of royal 
reward, 

A radical change in all this tabes place with the 
accession of Mas'ihl There is no more complaint of the 
time and its ruler* Atbernni is all glee and exultation 
about the royal favours and support accorded to him 
and to his studies. He now wrote the greatest work of 
his life, 1 and with a swelling heart and overflowing 
words he proclaims in the. preface the praise of his 
benefactor* Living in Ghazna, he seems to have for- 
gotten India to a great extent. For in the Canon 
MasudicV'S he rarely refers to India; its chapter on 
Hindu eras does not prove any progress of his studies 
beyond that which he exhibits in the and at 

the end of it be is even capable of confounding the era 

■ The Canon Mamd tc m , extaut m four good copies in European 
libraries;, waits for the patronage of some Academy of Sciences 
or some Government, and for tire coinbinal.iosi of l.wo scholars, uii 
astronomer and an Arable philologist, for the purpose of an edition 
and translation* 


PREFACE . xvii 

of the astronomers, as used in the Kk and ffj&ddyr&a of 
Brahmagupta, with the GrnptaktlflL 

If the author and his countrymen had suffered and 
were- still suffering from the oppression of King Mali- 
Tinid, the Hindus were in the same position, and per- 
haps it was this community of mishap which inspired 
him with sympathy for them. And certainly the 
Hindus and their world of thought have a paramount, 
fascinating interest for Mm, and he inquires with the 
greatest predilection into every Indian subject, how- 
soever heathenish it may be, as though he were treating 
of the most important questions for the souls of .Muham- 
madans, — of free-will and predestination, of future 
reward and punishment, of the creation or eternity of 
the Word of God, &c. To Mahmud the Hindus were 
infidels, to be dispatched to hell as soon as they refused 
to be plundered. To go on expeditions and to fill the 
treasury with gold, not to make lasting conquests of 
territories, was the real object of his famous expeditions; 
and it was with this view that he cut his way through 
enormous distances to the richest temples of India at 
Taneshar, Mathura, Kanoj, and Soman ath. 

To AlhernnI the Hindus were excellent philosophers, 
good mathematicians and astronomers, though he naively 
believes himself to be superior to them, and disdains to 
be put on a level with them (i. 23). 1 He does not 
conceal whatever he considers wrong and unpractical 
with them, but he duly appreciates their mental 
achievements, takes the greatest pains to appropriate 
them to himself, even such as could not be of any use 
to him or to his readers, t.g, Sanskrit metrics : and 
whenever he hits upon something that is noble and 
grand both in science and in practical life, he never 
fails to lay it before his readers with warm-hearted 
words of approbation. Speaking of the construction of 
the ponds at holy bathing-places, he says: In this 

1 For a similar trail; of self-confidence r/. i, 277, last lintis* 
VOL, I, & 


The &uth or* 
interest Lji 
India- 


PREFACE. 


xvi it 

they have? attained a very high degree of art, so that 
our people (the Muslims), when they see them, wonder 
at them, and are unable to describe them, much less to 
construct any tiling like them ” (ii. 144). 

Apparently Alberuni felt a strong inclinati on towards 
Indian philosophy.. lie soerns to have thought that the 
■philosophers both in ancient Greece and India, whom 
he- most carefully and repeatedly distinguish ee from the 
ignorant, image-loving crowd, held in reality the very 
same ideas, the same as seem to have been his own. i.c. 
those of a pure monotheism ; that^ in fact-, originally all 
men were alike pure and virtuous, worshipping one sole 
Almighty God, but that the dark passions of the crowd 
in the course of time had given rise to the difference of 
religion, of philosophical and political persuasions, and 
of idolatry* t( The first cause of idolatry was the desire 
of commemorating the dead and of consoling the living ; 
but on this basis it has developed 7 and has finally 
become a foul and pernicious abuse” (l 124). 

lie seems to have revelled in the pure theories of 
the Bhafjwi'fidgUd, and it deserves to be noticed that he 
twice mentions the saying of Vy&sa, "'Learn twenty- 
rive (*>., the elements of existence) by distinctions, &c. 
Afterwards adhere to whatever religion you like : your 
end will be salvation 31 (i. 44, and also I. 1 04). In one 
case he even goes so far as to speak of Hindu scholars 
as " znjoymg the help of God” which to a Muslim means 
as much as inspired by God, guided by divine inspiration 
(ii, 10 8). These words are au addition of the author^ 
in his paraphrase of the BrihatsmhhM of Vara.hamihira, 
v. S. There can be scarcely any doubt that Muslims 
0 f 1 at er time s w ouid have f 0 u rid f au If with, b i m f or goin g 
to such length in his interest for those heathenish 
doctrines, and it is a singular fact that Alberuni wrote 
under a prince who burned and impaled the Karmatians 
(rf, note to i. 31). 

Still he was a Muslim : whether Sunni or SM T a 


PREFA CE. 


xix 

cannot be gathered from the J lv&LKa. He sometimes 
takes an occasion for pointing out to the reader the 
superiority of Islam over Brahmanic India. He con- 
trasts the democratic equality of men with the castes 
of India, the matrimonial law of Islam with degraded 
forms of it in India, the cleanliness and decency of 
Muslims with filthy customs of the Hindus, With all 
this, his recognition of Islam is not -without a tacit 
reserve. He dares not attack Islam, but he attacks the 
Arabs. In his work on chronology he reproaches the 
ancient Muslims with having destroyed the civilisation 
of Eran T and gives us to understand that the ancient 
Arabs were certainly nothing better than the Zoroasfcrian 
[Iranians. So too in the whenever he speaks of 

a dark side in Hindu life, he at once turns round sharply 
to compare the manners of the ancient Arabs, and to 
declare that they were quite as bad, if not worse. This 
could only he meant as a hint to the Muslim reader not 
to be too haughty towards tlie poor bewildered Hindu, 
trodden down by the savage hordes of King Mahmud, 
and not to forget that the founders of Islam, too, were 
certainly no angel*. 

Independent in his thoughts about religion and 
philosophy, he is a friend of clear, determined, and manly 
w o r d s . He abb ors h al f - fcr u th s, v oil ed wo rds , and w a v e r- 
i n g action . Eve ry w h ere he come s for war d as a chain pi on 
of his conviction with the courage of a man. As in 
religion and philosophy * so too in politics > There are 
some remarkable sentences of political philosophy in 
the introductions to chapters ix. and lxxi. As a poli- 
tician of a highly conservative stamp, he stands up 
for throne and altar, and declares that “their union 
represents the highest development of human society, 
all that men can possibly desire (i. 99}* He is capable 
of admiring the mildness of the law of the Gospel : “To 
offer to him who has beaten your cheek the other cheek 
also, to bless your enemy and to pray for him. Upon 


The author , r 
char act I?!’. 


XX 


PREFA CE. 


my life, this is a noble philosophy ; but the people of 
this world are not all philosophers. Most of them are 
ignorant: and erring, who cannot be kept on the straight 
road save by the sword and the whip. And, indeed, 
ever since Constantine the Victorious became a Chris- 
tian, both sword and whip have ever been employed, for 
without them it won Id he impossible to rnle ” (iL 161 ). 
Although a scholar by profession, he is capable of taking 
the practical side of a case, and he applauds the Khalit 
Mu aviya for having sold the golden gods of Sicily to 
the princes of Sindh for money V worth, instead of 
destroying them as heathen abominations, as bigoted 
Muslims would probably have liked him to do. His 
preaching the union of throne and altar does not prevent 
him from speaking with undisguised contempt of the 
“ preconcerted tricks of the priests ” having the purpose 
of enthralling the ignorant crowd {i. 123}, 

He is a stern judge both of himself and of others. 
Himself perfectly sincere, it is sincerity which he 
demands from others* Whenever he does not fully 
understand a subject, or only knows part of it. Ik; will 
at once tell the reader so, either asking the readers 
pardon for his ignorance* or promising, though a man 
of fifty-eight years, to continue his labours and to 
publish their results in time, as though he were acting 
under a moral responsibility to the public. He always 
sharply draws the limits of his knowledge; and although 
he has only a smattering of the metrical system of the 
Hindus, he communicates whatever little he knows, 
guided by the principle Ihat the best must not be the 
enemy of the better (i. 200, 6-9), as though he were 
afraid that he should not live long enough to finish the 
study in question. He is not a friend of those who 
hate to avow their ignorance by a frank I do not 
know ” (i. 177), an ^ he roused to strung indignation 
whenever he meets with want of sincerity. If Brahma- 
gupta teaches two theories of the eclipses, the popular 


PREFACE , 


sjti 

cue of the dragon Killing devouring the lumhaone body, 
and the scientific one, he certainly committed the sin 
against conscience from undue concession ei to the priests 
of the nation, and from fear of a fate like that which 
befell Socrates when he came into collision with the 
persuasions of the majority of his countrymen. Of. 
chapter lix. In another place he accuses Brahma- 
gupta of injustice and rudeness to his predecessor t 
Aryabhata (i. 376). He finds in the works of Varu- 
hamihira by the side of honest scientific work sentences 
which sound to him “ like the ravings of a madman 
(ii. 1 17), but he is kind enough to suggest that behind 
those passages there is perhaps an esoteric meaning, 
unknown to him, but more to the credit of the author. 
When, however, Variihauiiliira seems to exceed all 
limits of common sense, Albenmi thinks that “to such 
things vilena: is the only proper answer n (ii. 114), 

His professional zeal, and the principle that learning 
is the fruit of repetition (ii. 198), sometimes induce him 
to Indulge in repetitions, and his thorough honesty 
sometimes misleads him to use harsh and even rude 
words. He cordially hates the verbosity of Indian 
authors or versifiers, 1 who use lots of words where a 
single one would be sufficient. He cads it li mere 
nonsense — a means of keeping people in the dark and 
throwing an air of mystery aboEit the subject* And in 
any case this copiousness (of words denoting the same 
thing) offers painful difficulties to those who want to 
learn the whole language, and only results in a sheer 
waste of time” (i. 229, 299, 19). Tie twice explains 
the origin of the Dibajut, i.e. Male dives and Laccadives 
(i, 233 ; ii. 1 06). twice the configuration of the borders 
of the Indian Ocean (I. 197, 270). 

Whenever he suspects humbug, he is not backward in 
calling it by the right name* Thinking of the horrid 
practices of Easily ana, the art- of making gold, of 

1 Cf. his sarcasms an the versifying bias of Hindu authors, i. 137. 


PREFACE , 


The ten- 
■j cnc y n f 
]ji& work. 


XJttl 

making old people young, &c., lie bursts out into 
sarcas tic words which arc more coarse in the original 
than in my translation (i. 189), Its eloquent words he 
utters his indignation on the same subject (1. 193): 

The greediness of the ignorant Hindu princes for gold- 
making docs not know any limit,” &c. There is a spark 
of grim humour in his words on i. 237, where he criti- 
cises the cosmographic ravings of a Hindu author : 
“ We, on our part, found it already troublesome enough 
to enumerate all the seven seas, together with the seven 
earths, and now this author thinks he can make the 
subject more easy and pleasant to ns by inventing some 
more earths below those already en nine rated by our- 
selves ! ” And when jugglers from Ivanoj lectured to 
him on chronology, the stem scholar seems to have been 
moved to something tike a grin. “I used great care in 
examining every single one of them, in repeating the 
same questions at different times in a different order 
and context. But lol what different answers did ! 
get ! God is all-w ise ” (ii. 129). 

In the opening of his book Alberuni gives an account 
of the circumstances which suggested to him the idea 
of writing the J IvBnct£. Once the conversation with a 
friend of his, else unknown, ran on the then existing 
literature on the history of religion and philosophy, 
its merits and demerits, When, in particular, the 
literature on the belief of the Hindus came to be criti- 
cised, Alberuni maintained that all of it was second- 
hand and thoroughly uncritical* To verify the matter, 
his friend once more examines the books in question, 
which results in his agreeing with our author, and his 
asking him to fill up this gap in the Arabic literature 
of the time. The book he has produced Is not a polemi- 
cal one. He will not. convert the Hindus, nor lend 
a direct help to missionary zealots. He will simply 
describe H i nd u is m , w 1 1 ho 1 1 1 i d en ti tying him sel f w ith it. 
He takes care to inform the reader that he is not respon- 


PREFACE* xxiii 

sible for whatsoever repugnant detail lie has to relate, 
but the Hindus them selves, lie gives a repertory of 
information on Indian subjects, destined for the use of 
those who lived in peaceable intercourse with them, and 
wished to have an insight into their mode and world of 
thought {i H 7 ; h + 24 6), 

The author has nothing in common with the Muham- 
madan Ghazi who wanted to convert the Hindus or to 
kill them, and his book scarcely reminds the reader of 
the incessant war between Islam and India, during 
which it had been prepared, and by which the possi- 
bility of writing such a book had first been given. It 
is like a magic island of quiet, impartial research in 
the midst of a world of clashing swords, burning towns, 
and plundered temples. The object which the author 
had in view, and never for a moment lost sight of, was 
to a] ford the necessary information and training to 
tE any one (in Islam) who mints to converse with the 
Hindus, nnd to discuss vAtk them- questions of religion } 
sdmee, or literature, on the very basis of their own civili- 
sation yi (EL 246), 

It is difficult to say what kind of readers Alberuni had, 
or expected to have, not only for the Tidhisd!, but for all 
his other publications on Indian subjects. Probably 
ed u eated , a nd 11 ot b i gote d or f an atical M u si im s in Sii 1 dh , 
in parts of the Panjab* where they were living by the side 
of Hindus and in dally intercourse with them ; perhaps, 
also, for such in Kabul, the suburb of which had still a 
Hindu population in the second half of the tenth century, 
Ghazna, and other parts of A f ghanis ta n . When speak - 
lug of the Puiismiddh&rUa, a standard w f ork on astro- 
nomy t he says : A translation of his (Pnlisa*s) whole 
work into Arabic has not hitherto yet been undertaken, 
because in his mathematical problems there is an evi- 
dent religious and theological tendency ,J 1 (L 375). He 

1 Albemot does not seem lu I Lave shaved these scruples, for be 
translated it into Arabic (<?/. i 154). 


The author 
and ]jL?. 
l athi er a. 


XXIV 


PREFACE. 


The i-n.uhoir 
i u , 


does not tell us what this particular tendency was to 
which the readers objected, hut we learn so much from 
this note that m his time, and probably also in his 
neighbourhood, there were circles of educated men who 
had an interest- in getting the scientific works of India 
translated into Arabic, who at the same time were suffi- 
ciently familiar with the subject-matter to criticise the 
various representations of the same subject, and to give 
t h e prefe re u ce to o n e, to tl ie ex cl u s io 1 1 of a notl 1 e r . T 1 l a t 
our author had a certain public among Hindus seems 
to be indicated by the fact that he composed some 
publications for people in Kashmir : cj\ preface to the 
edition of the text, p. xx. These relations to Kashmir 
are very difficult to understand, as Muslims had not 
yet conquered the country, nor entered it to any extent, 
and as the author 1dm self (i. 206) relates that it was 
closed to intercourse with all strangers save a few Jews. 
Whatever the interest of Muslims for the literature of 
and on India may have been, we arc under the impression 
that this kind of literature has never taken deep root ■ 
for after Alter uni's death, in AJ). 104S, there is no more 
original work in this held 5 and even Albermri, when lie 
wrote, was quite alone in the field. Enumerating the 
difficulties which beset his study of India, he says : £l 1 
found it very hard to work into the subject, although L 
have a great liking for it, in which resped I stand quite 
alone in my time / 7 ike. (i. 24), And certainly we do not 
know of any Indian 1 st like him, before his time or 
after* 

1 n general it is the method of our author not to speak 
himself, but to let the Hindus speak* giving extensive 
quotations from their classical authors. He presents a 
picture of Indian civilisation as painted by the Hindus 
them selves. Many chapters, not all. open with a short 
characteristic introduction of a general nature. The body 
of most chapters consists of three parts. The first is 
a precis of the question, as the author understands it* 


PREFACE. 


XX Y 


The second part brings forward the doctrines of the 
Hindus, quotations from Sanskrit books in the chapters 
on religion* philosophy, astronomy, and astrology, and 
other kinds of information which liad been communi- 
cated to him by word of mouth T or things which lit.'! 
had himself observed in the chapters on literature, 
historic chronology, geography, law, manners, and cus- 
toms. in the third part- he does the same as Mcgas- 
thenes had already done ; he tries to bring the sometimes 
very exotic subject nearer to the understanding of his 
readers by comparing it with the theories of ancient 
Greece, and by other comparisons. As an example of 
this kind of arrangement, ef. Chapter v. In the dis- 
position of every single chapter, as well as in t-lie 
sequence of the chap tore, a perspicuous, well-considered 
plan is apparent. There is no patchwork nor anything 
superfluous, and the words fit to the subject as close as 
possibl e . We se e m to r ecogn i se th e pro fees ion al in atlu> 
in at i dan in the perspicuity and classical order through- 
out the whole composition, and there was scarcely an 
occasion for -him to excuse himself* as he does at the 
end of Chapter i. (i. 26), for not being able everywhere 
strictly to adhere to the geometrical method, as he was 
sometimes compelled to introduce an unknown factor, 
because the explanation could only be given in a later 
part of the book. 

lie does not blindly accept the traditions of former 
ages ■ lie wants to understand and to criticise them. He 
wants to slit the wheat from the chaff,, and he will 
discard everything that militates against the laws of 
nature and of reason. The reader will remember that 
ATberiini was also a physical scholar, and had published 
works on most departments of natural science, optics, 
mechanics, mineralogy, and chemistry ; if his geolo- 
gical speculation on the indications of India once having 
been a sea (i. 198), and a characteristic specimen of his 
natural philosophy (h 4OQ), That he believed in the 


The autbor'k 

eriticrU 

mind 


XSCVI 


PREFACE. 


action of the planets on the sublunary world I take for 
certain, though he nowhere say a so. It would hardly 
be intelligible why he should have spent so much time 
and labour on the study of Greek and. Indian astrology 
it' he had not believed in the truth of the thing. He 
gives a sketch of Indian astrology in Chapter hss,, 
because Muslim readers ts are not acquainted with the 
Hindu methods of astrology, anil have never had an 
opportunity of studying an Indian book” (ik 211), 
Bard es sues, a Syrian philosopher and poet in the 
second half of the second Christian century, condemned 
astrology in plain and weighty words, Alberuni did 
not rise to this height., remaining entangled in the 
notions of Greek astrology. 

Me did not believe in alchemy* for ho distinguishes 
between such of its practices as are of a chemical or 
miner illogical character* and such as are intentional 
deceit, which he condemns in the strongest possible 
terms (i. 187). 

Me criticises manuscript tradition like a modern 
philologist. Me sometimes supposes the text to be 
corrupt, and inquires into the cause of the corruption ; 
he discusses various readings, and proposes emenda- 
tions, H e g n ess es at lacu ? ? c/y critici ses d i if eren t tr an si a- 
tions, and complains of the carelessness and ignorance 
of the copyists (ii. 76 ; i. 162 163). He is aware that 
Indian works, badly translated and carelessly copied by 
the successive copyists* very soon degenerate to such a 
degree that an Indian author would hardly recognise 
his own work, if it were presented to him in such a 
garb. All these complaints are perfectly true, particu- 
larly as regards the proper names. That in his essays 
at emendation he sometimes went astray, that, cjj t he 
was not prepared fully to do justice to Brahmagupta* 
will readily be excused by the fact that at his time it 
was next to impossible to learn Sanskrit with a suffi- 
cient degree of accuracy and completeness. 


PREFACE, xstv ii 

When I drew the first, sketch of the life of Alberuni 
ten years ago, I cherished the hope that more materials 
for his biography would come to light in the libraries 
of both the East and West. This has not been the 
case, so far as I am aware. To gain an estimate of his 
character we must try to read between the lines of his 
books, and to glean whatever minute indications may 
there be found, A picture of his character cannot 
therefore at the present be anything but very imperfect, 
and a detailed appreciation of his services iti the ad- 
vancement of science cannot be undertaken until all 
the numerous works of his pen have been studied and 
rendered accessible to the learned world. The principal 
domain of his work included astronomy, mathematics, 
chronology, mathematical geography, physics* chemistry, 
and mineralogy. By the side of this professional work 
he composed about twenty books on India, both transla- 
tions and original compositions, and a number of tales 
and legends, mostly derived from the ancient lore of 
I Iran and India, As probably most valuable contribu- 
tions to the historic literature of the time* we must 
mention bis history of bis native country Khwarizm* 
and the history of the famous scot of the Karmatians, 
the loss of both of which is much to be deplored, 

IL 

The court, of the Khalils of the house of Omayya at 
Damascus docs not seem to have been a home for 
literature* Except for the practical necessities of ad- 
ministration, they had no desire for the civilisation of 
Greece* Egypt, or Persia, their thoughts being engrossed 
by war and politics and the amassing of wealth. Pro- 
bably they had a certain predilection for poetry common 
to all Arabs, but they did not think of encouraging 
historiography, much to their own disadvantage. In 
many ways these Arab princes, only recently emerged 


On the qyI- 
pirns <>r 
Arable 
literature. 


xxviii PREFACE. 

from the rocky wilderness of the Hiji'lz, and suddenly 
raised to imperial power, retained much of the great 
Bedouin Shaikh of the desert. Several of them, shun- 
ning Damascus, preferred to stay in the desert or on 
its border, and we may surmise that hi their house’ 
holds at Eusafa and KlumAsara there was scarcely 
more thought of literature than at present in the 3 ] alls 
of Jbn Arras hid, the wily head of the Sham mar at Hath 
The cradle of Arabic literature is not Damascus, but 
Bagdad, and the protection necessary for its rise and 
growth was afforded by the Khalils of the house of 
Abbas, whose Arab nature has been modified by the 
influence of E rani an civilisation during a long stay in 
KhurasAn* 

1 lie foundation of Arabic literature was laid between 
A/D. 750 and 850. It is only the tradition relating to 
their religion and prophet and poetry that is peculiar 
to the Arabs; everything else is of foreign descent. 
The development of a large literature, with numerous 
ramifications, is chiefly the work of foreigners, carried 
out with foreign materials, as in Rome the origins of 
the national literature mostly point to Greek sources. 
Greece, Persia, and India were taxed to help the sterility 
of the Arab mind. 

What Greece has contributed by lending its Aristotle, 
Ptolemy, and Harpocrates is known in general A de- 
tailed description of the influx and spread of Greek 
literature wou ld mark a memorable progress in Oriental 
philology* Such a work may be undertaken with some 
chance of success by one who is familiar with the state 
of Greek literature at the centres of learning during the 
last centuries of Greek heathendom, although ha would 
have to struggle against the lamentable fact that most 
Arabic books of this most ancient period ace lost., and 
probably lost for ever. 

What did Persia, or rather the Sasanian empire, over- 
rum by the Arab hordes, oiler lo its victors in literature ? 


PREFACE , 




It left to the east of the Khalifate the language of 
administration, the use of which during the following 
centuries, till recotit times, was probably never much 
discontinued. It was this Perso-Sasaniau language of 
administration which passed into the use of the smaller 
Eastern dynasties, reared under the Abba&ide Khalifa, 
and became the language of literature at Lhe court of 
one of those dynasties, that of the Sam an l kings of 
Transoxiana and Khnr&aan. Thus it lias come to pass 
that the dialect of one of the most western parts of 
Bran first, emerged as the language of literature in its 
farthest east. In a similar way modern German is an 
offspring of the language used in the chanceries of the 
Luxembourg emperors of Germany. 

The bulk of the narrative literature, tales, legends, 
novels, came to the Arabs in translations from the Per- 
sian, c, <y. the “ Thousand and One Nights,” the stories told 
by the month of animals, like Kaitla and Bimna, pro- 
bably all of Buddhistic origin, portions of the national 
lore of Than, taken from the Khud&indma, or Lord's Book, 
and afterwards immortalised by Firdausi ; but more 
than any thin g el se love-stories. A 1 1 thi s was th e fash ion 
under the Abbaside Khalifa, and is said to have attained 
the height of popularity during the rule of Almuktadir, 
Aj) f 90 B 932. Besides, much favour was apparently 
bestowed upon didactic, parsenetic compositions, mostly 
clothed in the garb of a testament of this or that Sasun ian 
king or sage, €,g. Auushirvan and his minister Buzurju- 
inihr, likewise upon collections of moralistic apothegms* 
All this was translated from Persian, or pretended to 
be so. Books on the science of war, the knowledge of 
weapons, the veterinary art, falconry, and the various 
methods of divination, and some books on medicine 
and de nbm vemreis, were likewise borrowed from the 
Persians* It is noteworthy that, oil the other hand, 
there are very few traces of the exact sciences, such as 
mathematics and astronomy, among the Sagan ian Per- 


XXX 


PEE FACE, 


Jinljji.il cle- 
i Mentis in 

Amble 

lir.iir.iLUlJrri. 


si ai is, Either they had only little of this kind, or the 
Arabs did not choose to get it translated* 

Ail author by the name of 4 A It I bn ZiyM A 1 tarn 'inn 
is said to have translated from Persian a booh, Z(j- 
ahhahriydr, which, to judge by (he title, must have 
been a system of astronomy* It seems to have been 
extant tv lie a Al herein wrote bis work on chronology ; 
vide “ Chronology of Ancient Nations,” translated, &c., 
by Pd ward Sack an, London, rSyfi, p. 6 f and note p. 368. 
Perhaps it was from this source that the famous Alkli- 
wurizmi drew hie knowledge of Persian astronomy, 
which he is said to have exhibited in his extract from 
the Iimhma$iddhdnia 9 composed by order of the Khalif 
Ma'mfm. For wo are expressly told [ride Gild emeus ter. 
Scnpltynm. Amhum de rebus Indicts loci, &c,, p. 10 i) 
that he used the m ctiia t the mean places of the 
planets as fixed by Brahmagupta, whilst in other 
things he deviated from him, giving the equations of 
the planetary revolutions according to the theory of 
the Persians, and the declination of the sun according 
to Ptolemy. Of what kind this Persian astronomy was 
we do not know, but we must assume that it was of a 
scientific character, based on observation and compu- 
tation, else AlkhwHriznai would not have introduced 
its results into his own work. Of the terminology 
of Arabian astronomy, the word jauz<ihar= Caput 
dnteonis. is probably of Sasaufau origin (gaocilkrft) f as 
well as the word dj ( = canon), ie> a collection of astro- 
nomical tables with the necessary explanations, perhaps 
also latrdiij, kardtija, a measure in geometry equal to 
.,' r - of the circumference of a circle, if it be identical 
with the Persian kardtf i ie. cuL 

What India has contributed reached Bagdad by two 
different roads. Part has come directly in translations 
from the Sanskrit, part has travelled through Erau, 
having originally been translated from Sanskrit (Pali ? 
Prakrit ?} into Persian, and farther from Persian into 


PREFACE . 


XXX] 


Arabic. In tins way, c,ff. the fabler of KaWa and 
IHmna have been communicated to the Arabia, and a 
book on medicine, probably the famous Car aka, Gf> 
bihrisfc, p. 303. 

In this communication between India and Bagdad 
we must not only distinguish between two different 
roads, but also between two different periods. 

As Sindh was under the actual rule of the Khalif 
Mansur (a.p 75 3-774), there came embassies from that 
part of India to Bagdad, and among thorn scholars, who 
brought along with them two books, the SrakmasitO 
dJidnta to Brahmagupta (Sindh End), and his Kh(Oida- 
kh&dyaka (Arkand). With the help of these pandits, 
Alfa^art, perhaps also Yak Lib I bn T&rik, translated them , 
Roth works have been largely used, and have exercised 
a great influence. It was 011 this occasion that the 
Arabs first became acquainted with a scientific system 
of astronomy. They learned from Brahmagupta earlier 
than from Ptolemy. 

Another influx of Hindu learning took place under 
liar Lin, A/D. 786-808. The ministerial family Barmak, 
then at the zenith of their power, had come with the- 
ruling dynasty from Balkh, where an ancestor of theirs 
had been an official in the Buddhistic temple ffavbch&r, 
i.e, nara vih&ra— the now temple (or monastery). The 
name Barrnak is said to be of Indian descent, meaning 
para-malai, ix. the superior (abbot of the vihdra t\ Of. 
Kern, GescJiiehie des Buddld&wws in fnd-ien, ii. 445 , 543- 
Of course, tho Barrnak family had been converted, but 
their cou temporaries never thought much of their pro- 
fession of Islam, nor regarded it as genuine. Induced 
probably by family traditions, they sent scholars to 
I n d ia 3 t -1 t ere to st u d y m eel i ci n e an d pi 1 a r m neology H Be- 
sides, they engaged Hindu scholars to come to Bagdad, 
made them the chief physicians of their hospitals* and 
ordered them to translate from Sanskrit into Arabic 
books on medicine, pharmacology, toxicology, philo- 


XXXtl 


PREFACE, 


Sophy, astrology, and other subjects. 8 till In later 
ce n tn vi 0s Mu slim sob ol ar s sometim e s tra ve lied f or 
the same purposes as the emissaries of the Barmak, 
Aim u waff ak not long before AlbemnBs time [Codex 
V'indobonensi-s, sive m&Uti Aim Mmimv liber fundamm- 
iormn ph rtrmaColo[fiw. ed, Stdigmann, Vienn a, 1 859, pp. 
6 ? io, and 15, 9). 

Soon afterwards, when Sindh was 110 longer politically 
dependent upon Bagdad, all this intercourse ceased en- 
ti rel y . A rabi c 11 fcerafc n re tu rn ed off i ntn ot- 1 1 e r ch an n el s. 
There is no more mention of the presence of Hindu 
scholars at Bagdad nor of translations of the Sanskrit. 
Greek learning had already won an omnipotent sway 
over the mind of the Arabs, being communicated to 
them by the labours of Nestorian physicians* the philo- 
sophers of Hardin, and Christian scholars in Syria and 
other parts of the Khali fate. Of the more ancient or 
Indo- Arabian stratum of scientific literature nothing has 
reached our time save a number of titles of books, many 
of them in such a corrupt form as to baffle all attempts 
at decipherment. 

Among the Hindu physicians of this time one ^ 
is mentioned, i.e. the son of DSA\ director of the hos- 
pital of the Barm aka in Bagdad. This name may be 
Dhiinya or Dhanin t chosen probably on account oS' its 
etymological relationship with the name Dhanmntari, 
the name of the mythical physician of the gods in 
Mann’s law-book and the epos (of. A. Weber, Indische 
IAi t eraiu rg eschich t e, pp. 284, 287). A similar relation 
seems to exist between the names Kan&t ? that of a 
physician of the same period, and KMMyana, an 
authority In Indian medicine (ef\ Weber, l. c. y pp. 287 
note, and 284 note, 3 02). 

The name that of an author of a book on 

drinkables, may be identical with Atri, mentioned as a 
medical author by Weber, L p. 288, 

There was a book by one (also written jbjw) on 


PREFACE. 


xxxiii 

wisdom or philosophy (rf\ Fihmt, p. 305), According 
to Middle-In dian phonetics this name is == rcda rj/dsa? 
A man of this name, also called Vydsa or &&dardy<ma y 
is, according to the literary tradition of India, the 
originator of the Vedanta school of philosophy (cf 
Colebroke, Essays* i. 352), and this will remind the 
reader that in the Arabian Sufism the Indian Vedanta 
philosophy reappears. 

Further, an author &adhrm, * is mentioned, 

unfortunately without an indication of the contents of 
bis book. Alberu ui (L 157) mentions one Saiga as the 
author of a j&ttika (cf Weber* L c rj p, 278), and this 
name is perhaps an abbreviation of that one here 
mentioned, Lc< S^yamrmm. 

A work on astrology is attributed to one 
SNGH L (ndc Fihrist, p. 271), likewise enumerated 
by Alberuni in a list of names (h 158). The Indian 
equivalent of this name is not certain (cf note to i. 1 58), 

There is also mentioned a book on the signs of swords 
by one probably identical with Vy&fjhm, which 

occurs as a name of Indian authors (cf. i. Fib r 1 st, p. 

315)- 

The famous Buddha legend in Christian garb, most 
commonly called Joasaph and Barlaam, bears in Fibrist, 
p. 300, the title p^A 1 ■ The former word is gene- 

rally explained as BodMsattm f although there is no 
law in Indian phonetics which admits the change of 
BfUti-ft to saf The second name is that of Buddha's 
spiritual teacher and guide, in fact* his purohUff T and 
with this word I am inclined to identify the signs in 
question * i,e, JJ&Ah 

What 1 bn Wadih in Ills chronicle fed* by Hontama) 
relates of India, on pp + 92-106* is not of much value. 
His words on p. 105, <( the king = Glrnka, who 

1 Eenfey in Kalitag urxt Lam nay, Eintviivn&t p. xliii. aiote 3* The 
word has received currency in the form Eidpui- 
a C% Bonfey* l. EinUitung, p. kl. 

TOE. I- C 


XXXIV 


PREP A CE . 


lived in the time of Sindbad the sage, and this Ghmlui 
composed the book on the running of the women/' 1 are 
perhaps an indication of some fables of Buddliaghosha 
having been translated into Arabic. 

Besides books on astronomy, mathematics 

astrology, chiefly j<Utdrts> on medicine and 
pharmacology, the Arabs translated Indian works on 
snakes (mrpar^d), on poison ('viskavidi/d), on all 
kinds of auguring, on talismans, on the veterinary art, 
tic ark mnund% numerous tales, a life of Buddha, books 
on logic and philosophy in general, on ethics, politics, 
and on the science of war. Many Arab authors took 
up the subjects communicated to them by the Hindus 
and worked them out in original compositions, commen- 
taries, and extracts. A favourite subject of theirs was 
Indian mathematics, the knowledge of which, became 
far spread by the publications of A 1 kind! and many 
others. 

The smaller dynasties which in later times tore the 
sovereignty over certain eastern countries of the Khali- 
fate out of the hands of the successors of Mansur and 
II a run, did not continue their literary commerce with 
India. The B ami- Bait h (a A h 872-903), owning great 
part of Afghanistan together with Obazna, were the 
neighbours of Hindus, but their name is in no way 
connected with the history of literature. I' or the 
Ruyi.de princes who ruled over Western Persia and 
Babylonia between a.li. 932 and 1055., the fables of 
Kali la ari d Di mn a were tr an si ated « Of all tl 1 es e p ri nee ly 
houses, no doubt, the Sam an ides, who held almost the 
whole east of the Khali fate under their sway during 
892-999, had most relations with the Hindus, those in 
Kabul, the Pan jab. and Sindh ; and their minister, 
Aljaiham, probably had collected much information 
about India. Originally the slave of the Sam amides, 
then their general and provincial governor, Aiptngbi, 
made himself practically independent in GUaz&a a few 


preface. 


xxxv 


yea rs before Alberuni waa born* and bis successor, 
S&bnktagtn, Mahmud's father, paved the road for the 
war with India (i. 22), and for the lasting establish- 
ment of Islam m India, 

Some of the books that had been translated under 
the first Abbaskle Khalifs were extant in the library 
of Alberuni when he wrote the 'IW, the Brahma- 
siddhdnta or Smdhind, tmd the Khandakkdd-yapa or 
Arkand in the editions of Alfazari arid of Yakub Ibn 
Tank, the Cara&& in the edition of 'All Ibn Zain, and 
th e JMMalanira or KaMla and Dimna. He also used an 
Arabic translation of the Karramsdra by Vittel vara 
(ii. 55), but we do not leant from him whether this was 
an old translation or a modern one made in Alberuni ‘s 
time. These books offered to Alberuni — he complains 
of it repeatedly — the same difficulties as to us, via*, 
besides the faults of the translators, a considerable 
corruption of the text by the negligence of the copyists, 
more particularly as regards the proper names* 

When Alberuni entered India, he probably had a 
good general knowledge of Indian mathematics, astro- 
nomy, and chronology, acquired by the study of Brahma- 
gupta and his Arabian editors. What Hindu author 
was his teacher and that of the Arabs in pnre mathe- 
matics ^ot known. Besides Alfazlri 

and Yakub Ibn Titrik, he learned from Alkhwarkmi., 
something from Abnlhasan of Ahwfa, things of little 
value from Alkindi and Alm-Ma shar of Balkh, and 
single details from the famous book of A ljaiMni. Of 
other sources which he has used in the ’Ir&Ka, he 
quotes : ( r.) A Muhammadan canon called Alharh.m I i.e. 
f'Aargfnm* I cannot trace the history of the book, but 
suppose that it was a practical handbook of chronology 
for the purpose of converting Arabian and Persian dates 
into Indian ones and rice rered, which Lad perhaps been 
necessitated by the wants of the administration under 
Sabnktagin and Mahmud. The name of the author Is 


The author^ 

--Hint v of 
I ruliri t lufiil ij 

hk: vroto 
tlifli prcwnt 

boftk. 


xxxvi 


PREFACE. 


not mentioned. (2.) Abu Ahmad Dm Oatkghtagin, 
quoted l 31 7 as having computed the latitudes of Karli 
and T&neshar. 

Two other authorities on astronomical subjects are 
quoted, but not in relation to Indian astronomy, 
Muhammad Ibu 1 slink, from tfarakhs, ii. 15, and a book 
called Glvwrfat - perhaps derived from an Indian 
source, as the name is identical with KamytatUubi. 
The author is perhaps Abu-Mu ham road Alnaib from 
Amul {cf. note to ii. 90)* 

T11 India Albertmi recommenced his study of Indian 
astronomy, this time not from translations, but from 
Sanskrit originals, and we here meet with the remark- 
able fact that the works which about a.d, 770 had been 
the standard in India still held the same high position 
A.Dh 1020, vis., the works of Brahmagupta, Assisted 
by learned pandits, he tried to translate them, as also 
the Ihdim&iddhdnta {vide preface (0 the edition of the 
text, § 5), and when he composed the lie had 

already come forward with several books devoted 
to special points of Indian astronomy. As such he 
quotes ; — 

(1.) A treatise on the determination of the lunar 
stations or n-akshatrm^ ii, S3. 

(2.) The KkfJAjM-alkmiifaini) which contained, pro- 
bably beside other things, a description of the Fojp 
theory, ii. 208, 

(3*) A book called The Arabic Khtfrtdtd'hMvfdr/, on 
the same subject as the preceding one, ii, 208. 

(4.) A book containing a description of the Koranm, 
the title of which is not. mentioned, ih T94, 

(v) A treatise on the various systems of numeration, 
as used by different, nations, i. 174, which probably 
described also the related Indian subjects. 

(6.) A book called “ Key of Astronomy,” on the ques- 
tion whether the sun rotates round the earth or the 
earth round the sun, i, 277. We may suppose that in 


PREFACE. xsxvii 

this book he had also made use of the notions of Indian 
astronomers, 

(7.) Lastly, several publications on the different 
methods for the computation of geographical longitude, 
i. 315, He does not mention their titles, nor whether 
they had any relation to Hindu methods of calculation* 

Perfectly at home in all departments of Indian astro- 
nomy and chronology, he began to write the 'M«r£ 
In the chapters on these subjects he continues a literary 
movement which at his time had already gone on for 
centuries ; but he surpassed his predecessors by going 
back upon the original Sanskrit sources, trying to cheek 
his pandits by whatever Sanskrit he had contrived to 
learn j by making new and more accurate translations, 
and by his conscientious method of testing the data of 
the 1 1 t diai 1 ast.ron om ers by cal culati on . His work repre- 
sents a scientific renaissance in comparison with the 
aspirations of the scholars working in Bagdad under the 
first Abbasi.de Khalils. 

Alberuni seems to think that Indian astrology bad 
not been transferred into the more ancient Arabic 
literature, as we may conclude from his introduction to 
Chapter 1 nx, : Our fellow-believers in these (Muslim) 
countries are not acquainted with the Hindu methods 
of astrology, and have never had an opportunity of 
study in g an Tt 1 rl i at 1 book on the s u bj ect, " iL 2 1 1 * We 
cannot prove that the works of VarShamlhlra. ejj. his 
BvikaUft/niMld and LaghujtHahm, which Alberuni was 
translating, had already been accessible to the Arabs at 
the time of Mansur, but we are inclined to think that 
Albennus judgment on this head is too sweeping, for 
books on astrology, and particularly on had 

already been translated in the early days of the Abba- 
side rule* Of. Fihri&t, pp. 270^ 271, 

As regards Indian medicine, w T e can only say that 
Alberuni does not seem to have made a special study 
of it, for he simply uses the then current translation of 


PREFACE. 


xxxviii 

Car aim, although complaining of its incorrectness, i. 
159, 162, 382, Tie has translated a Sanskrit treatise 
on loathsome diseases into Arabic (c/\ preface to the 
edition of the original, p* xxi. No, tS), but we do net 
knew whether before the ’lrSt^a or after it. 

Wliat. first induced Alberuni to write the IvSucd was 
not the wish to enlighten his countrymen on Indian 
astronomy in particular, but to present them with an 
impartial description of the Indian theological and 
philosophical doctrines on a bread basis, with every 
detail pertaining to them. So ho himself says both at 
the beginning and end of the book. Perhaps on this 
subject lie could give his readers more perfectly new 
information than on any other, for, accord it] g to his 
own statement, he had in this only one predecessor, 
Aleranshahrf. Not knowing him or that authority 
which he follows, i.e. Zurkan, we cannot form an 
estimate as to how far Albertinas strictures on ’them 
(i. 7) are founded Though there can hardly be any 
doubt that Indian philosophy in one or other of its 
principal forms had been communicated to the Arabs 
already in the first period, it seems to have been some- 
thing entirely new when Alberuni produced before his 
compatriots or fellow-believers the Sdmkhya by Kapila. 
and the Booh of Ft* la ftjali in good Arabic translation?. 
It was this particular work which admirably qualified 
him to write the corresponding chapters of the ’lvStKct. 
The philosophy of India seems to have fascinated his 
mind, and the noble ideas of the Bhagavadgitd pro- 
bably came near to the standard of his own persua- 
sions. Perhaps it was he who first introduced this 
gem of Sanskrit literature into the world of Muslim 
readers* 

As regards the Puranas, Alberuni was perhaps the 
first Muslim who took up the study of them. At all 
events, we cannot trace any acquaintance" with them on 
the part of the Arabs before his time. Of the liter a- 


PREFACE < 


XXXIX 


ture of fables, he knew the PtmmU?nira in the Arabic 
edition of Xbu Almitkaffa. 

Judging Alberuni in relation to his predecessors, we 
come to the conclusion that his work formed a most 
m arked progress . H is d a scriptio \ \ of Hi n d u philosophy 
was probably unparalleled. His system of chronology 
and astronomy was more complete and accurate than 
had ever before been given. His communications from 
the Pur fin. as were probably entirely new to his readers, 
as also the important chapters on literature, manners, 
festivals, actual geography, and the much-quoted chap- 
ter on historic chronology, lie once quotes Rafik with 
whose works be was intimately acquainted, and some 
Sufi philosophers, but from neither of them could he 
learn much about India* 

In the following pages we give a list of the Sanskrit HUSauakrii 
books quoted in the ’IvSttcd : — 

Sources of the chapters on theology and philosophy : 
&hitkkyti t by Kapil a ; Boot of Paiimjali ; GUd f i*e+ some 
edition of the Bhayamdyitd* 

Ho seems to have used more sources of a similar 
nature, but lie does not quote from them. 

Sources of a Pauruulo kind : Vishn y,-I)hftrw a, Vishnu- 
Pi trt i nit, M a Uytt-Purd y a , Vdl/v - Purdy a, kL Jitya -Jhmi na w 
Sources of the chapters on astronomy, chronology, 
geography, and astrology: Put 'isasidti h u/iU t t ; Brahma- 
sit 1 r l hdnfa, K ha n dt tkhddyaka , Utt araUian i( ahh/l tb/aJ,:a t 
by Brahmagupta; Commentary of the Khaydakhdd- 
yt'tka, by JJulabliadra, perhaps also some other work of 
his ; BnkatemhkUd, Ponemirf dh dntikd, Brihai-jdtalrm, 

Layh u-j&Utkft vi t by V ar&hamihira : Commentary of the 
llrihtdwtThMtd, a book called SrAiUnua (perhaps Sarcit- 
dharaf by IJtpala, from Kashmir ; a book by Aryabhata, 
junior; Kara tundra, by Vitteivara ; KaramdiktJza, by 
Vijayanandin ; Srijy&la ; Book of the Biski (sic) BJmrooa- 
kosa ; Book of the Brdhman Bkatt/ila ; Book of J)urlahJu( 7 


PREFACE , 


m 

from Multan ; Book of Jj-msarwwn ; Book of $0 mu if a ; 
Book of Aiditdia (?), the son of SaMwt (?) ; The Minor 
Mdna$it t by l J n noala ; Sriidhrmz [Sarvadkara ?)^ by 
M abade va Oa ndrabij a ; Cal e iidar fro 1 11 Kauai t m i r . 

As regards some of these authors, Hripii!a p Jivaiar- 
man, Sam ay a (?), and Auliatta (?) T the nature of the 
quotations leaves it uncertain whether Alberuni quoted 
from boohs of theirs or from oral communications which 
lie had received from them. 

Source on medicine : Go mka^ in the Arabic edition of 
'All lbn Zain, from Tabari stun. 

In the chapter on metrics, a lexicographic work by 
one Haribhatrx (?}* and regarding elephants- a Hook 
on the Medicine of Elephants,” are quoted. 

ilis communications from the MaMhJi&vrito. and 
Bdmdyima t and the way in which ho speaks of them, 
do not give us the impression that he had these bocks 
before him, lie had some information of Jaina origin, 
but does not mention his source (Aryabhata, jim. ?) 
Once he quotes Manu’s BharmaMdra, but in a manner 
which makes me doubt whether he took the words 
directly from the book itself. 1 

The quotations which he has made from these sources 
are, some of them, very extensive. those from the 
BhagmadgUd. In the chapter on literature he men- 
tions many more books than those here enumerated * 
but does not tell us whether he made use of them for 
the TvStKct, Sometimes lie mentions Hindu individuals 
as liis informants, e*g. those from Soman&th, i. i6l> 165, 
and from Kanoj, n 165 ; ii. 129. 

In Chapter i. the author speaks at large of the radical 
difference between Muslims and Hindus in everything, 
and tries to account for it. both by the history of India 
and by the peculiarities of the national character of its 
inhabitants (i + 17 Segf, Everything in India is just 

1 The places where mention of these hooks oeeurs are given in 
Index I. Of* also the amioiai-iooH on stogie c&sos. 


PREFACE . 


x\\ 

the reverse of what it is in Islam* “ and if ever a custom 
ol theirs resembles one of ours^ it has certainly just the 
opposite meaning” (i. 179). Much more certainly than 
to Albernnij India would seem a land of wonders and 
monstrosities to most of his readers. Therefore, in 
order to show that there were other nations who held 
and hold similar notions, he compares Greek philosophy, 
chiellv that of Plato* and tries to illustrate Hindu 
notions by those of the Greeks, and thereby to bring 
them nearer to the understanding of his readers. 

The role which Greek literature plays in Alberuni’s 
work in the distant country of the Paktyes and Gandhari 
is a singular fact In the history of civilisation* Plato 
before the doors of India, perhaps in India itself ! A 
considerable portion of the then extant Greek literature 
had found its way into the library of Alberuni, who 
uses it in the most conscientious and appreciative way, 
and takes From it choice passages to confront Greek 
thought with Indian. And more than this: on the 
part of his readers he seems to presuppose not only that 
they were acquainted with them, but also gave them 
th e cred it 0 f ti rst- rate an thoriti es • N ot kn 0 w i ng Gre ek 
or Syriac, he read them in Arabic translations, some of 
which rellect much credit upon their authors* The 
books he quotes are these : — 

Plato,. Phaydo. 

Tiviftuf, an edition with a commentary. 

In the copy of it. (hero an appendix relating 
to the pedigree of Hippo krates. 

Proclog, Commentary on Timmts (diJTorent from the extant 
one}. 

Aristotle, only short references to bis Fltysiea and MeUiphynau 
Letter to Alexander* 

Johannes Grammaticufi, G&niru Produm, 

Alexander of Aphrodisiac Coimuentary on Aristotle’s 

Apollon ias of Tyrma. 

Porphyry, Liber historixtruin pkUotophtmim { V). 

Ammonias. 


Greek uinl 
otliei 1 \umn\- 
lefE:, 


PRBFA CE. 


xlii 

Arabua^ Pkfmtm&M, with a corounentary. 

Galemis, i r rotycptk vx, 

irtfpi T&y tcarci tuttO us. 

TTfnj ff uir^fiTf £ue .tari 

Com i n on l.n ry on r h; ■ A pc i j>hU i i*g m :h of II I ppokrates, 
i>i! indole ttnima*. 

Book of the Proof. 

Ptolorny, Almagest* 

Geography, 

K itd b-alffl wmh Hr tt f . 

Pseudo- Kali isthfin os h Alexander romanee. 

Scholia k> the Art grammatics of Dionysius Thras. 

A synchronistic history, resembling in part that of JoliannuB 
Malalas, in part the Cfironicon of Eusebius. Of. notes to i H 
1 12, 105. 


The other analogies which he draws, not taken from 
Greek, but from Zoroaitrian, Christian^ Jewish, Mam- 
cbman, and Sftfi sources, are not very numerous. Ho 
refers only rarely to Eranian traditions : of. Index II. 
(.Persian traditions and Zoroaitrian), Most of the 
notes on Christian, Jewish, and Manicbman subjects 
may have been taken from the book of E run strain! (cf, 
his own words, i. 6, 7), although he knew Christianity 
from personal experience, and probably also from the 
communications of his learned friends A bulk hair Al- 
k ham mar and Abu-Sahl Almusihi, both Christians from 
the farther west (c/\ Chwnologk Orimtali&ch&r Volhr, 
Einldtwntjt p. xxxik). The interest lie has in Maul's 
doctrines and books seems rather strange. We are not 
acquainted with the history of the remnants of Maui- 
ch seism in those days and countries, but cannot help 
thinking that the quotations from Minis ;i Book of 
Mysteries ” and Tfte&cturus Vivijictdiorm do not justify 
Alter unfs judgment in this direction, lie seems to 
have seen in them venerable documents of a high 
antiquity, instead of the syncretistic ravings of a would- 
be prophet 

That he was perfectly right in comparing the Sufi 
philosophy- — he derives the word from tnufla, L 33 — 


PREFACE. 


xliii 

with certain doctrines of the Hindus is apparent to 
any one who is aware of the essential identity of the 
systems of the Greek Neo- Pythagoreans, the Hindu 
Vedfiuta philosophers, and the Sufis of the Muslim 
world. The authors whom be quotes, A bit Yazid 
Albistarni and Abu Bakr Alsliiblt, are well-known 
representatives of Sufism, Of. note to i. By. SB. 

As far as the present state of research allows one to 
judge, the work of Albenmi has not been continued. 
In astronomy he seems by his Canon Masudkm to 
represent the height, and at the same time the end, of 
the independent development of this science among the 
Arabs* But numerous scholars toiled on in his wake, 
whilst in the study of India, and for the translation of 
the standard works of Sanskrit literature, he never had 
a successor before the days of the Emperor Akbar. 
There followed some authors who copied from his 
IrStKtt, but there was none who could carry on the 
work in hu spirit and method after he had died, 
eighteen years after the composition of the ’I vSi^d, 
We must here mention two authors who lived not long 
after him, under the same dynasty, and probably in the 
same place, Gbazna, viz,, GardOz? (cf> note to in 6) t who 
wrote between A.Jj, 1049 and 1052, and Ain ham mad 
Jbn 1 Lfkall, who wrote between A.l>* 1089 and 1099 
(c/. note to i. 5)- Of the later authors who studied 
Alher lira’s Tr-k^and copied from it, the most notorious 
is Itashid-aldin, who transferred, e.g, the whole geogra- 
phical Chapter xviii. into his huge chronicle* 

When Albenmi entered India, times were not favour- 
able for opening friendly relations with native scholars. 
India recoiled from the touch of the impure barbarians. 
The Pula dynasty, once ruling over Kabulistan and the 
Panjab, had disappeared from the theatre of history, and 
their former dominions were in the firm grasp of King 
Mahmfid and under the administration of his slaves, 
of Turkish descent* The princes of North- We stern 


at the 
author a 

time. 


PREFACE. 


3tii v 

India had been too narrow- minded, too blind in their 
self-conceit, duly to appreciate the danger threatening 
from Ghazna, and too little politic in due time to unite 
for a common defence and repulse of the enemy. 
Single-handed Anandapala had had to fight it out, and 
had succumbed ; but the others were to follow, each one 
in his turn. All those who would not bear the yoke 
of the fiihcchas fled and took up their abode in the 
neighbouring Hindu empires. 

Kashmir was still independent, and was hermetically 
aealed to all strangers (i. 206). Anandnpfila had lied 
there. Mahmfid had tried the conquest of the coun- 
try j bu t failed . A bout th 0 ti m e vvl j e n A 1 ben mi w rote, 
the rule passed from the hands of San gram adevsq 
A.r>. TQ07 1030, into those of Anantadeva, A.D, [030 - 

1052. 

Central and Lower Sindh were rarely meddled with 
by Mahmud. The country seems to have been split 
into minor principalities ruled by petty Muslim 
dynasties,, like the Karmatian dynasty of Multan, 
deposed by Mahmud. 

In the conditions of the Gnrjara empire, the capital of 
which was Anhilvftra or Pattan, the famous expedition 
of Mahmud to Somanahh, A.D. 1025, in some ways re- 
sembling that of Napoleon to Moscow, does not seem 
to have produced any lasting changes. The country 
was under the sway of the Solan Id dynasty, who in 
A.D* 9 So had taken the place of the Oalukyas, King 
C&munda lied before Mahmud, who raised another 
prince of the same house, Devasamian. to the throne ; 
but soon after we find a son of Camunda, Diuiabha, as 
king of Gurjara till ajj. 1037* 

Malava was ruled by the Priam ara dynasty, who, 
like the kings of Kashmir, had afforded a refuge to a 
fugitive prince of the Pula dynasty of Kabulis tarn 
Ehojadeva of Malava, ruling between A.D. 997 and 

1053, is mentioned by Alberuni. Ills court at DMr 3 


PREFACE . 


xlv 

where he had gone from Ujjjain, was a rendezvous of 
the scholars of the time* 

Kanoj formed at that time part of the realm of the 
Pal a princes of Gan da or Bengal, who resided in 
Mongir. During the reign of R;\jyapala : Kanoj had 
been plundered and destroyed by MabmM. a + d. 1017, 
hi consequence of which a new city farther away from 
the mlectikas, Bari, had been founded, but does not 
seem to have grown to any importance. Residing in 
this place, the King Matiipala tried about A,D* 1 026 to 
consolidate and to extend his empire. Both these rulers 
arc said to have been Buddhists, Of. Kern, Gmdhdchie 
des BuddJd&mm m Indwn, ii. 544. 

The centres of Indian learning were Benares and 
Kashmir, both inaccessible to a barbarian like Alber uni 
(1* 22 ), but in the parts of India under Muslim adminis- 
tration he seems to have found the pandits he wanted, 
perhaps also at Gh&zna among the prisoners of war, 

India, as far as known to Alberuni, was Brahman ic, 
not Buddhistic* In the first half of the eleventh cen- 
tury all traces of Buddhism in Central Asia, Khurasan, 
Afghanistan, and North- Western India seem to have 
disappeared ■ and it is a remarkable fact that a man of 
the inquisitive mind of Alberuni knew scarcely any- 
thing at all about Buddhism, nor bad any means for 
procuring information on the subject. His notes on 
Buddhism are very scanty, all derived from thf^book 
of Eranshahrl, who, in his turn, had copied the book of 
one Z urban, and this book he seems to indicate to have 
been a bad one* Of. i. 7, 24 9, 326* 

Buddha is said to be the author of a bool; called 
(Mdtijiwm (not Gtidh&mfma, as I have written, i. 158), 
Le+ Jewel., on the knowledge of the supra naturalistic 
world. 

The Buddhists or Sham amass, i.e, irmiuma, are called 
Muhammirit., which I translate the redfvolm weavers^ 
taking it for identical with mMapafa* Of* note to i. 21* 


rim rtutsioi 
and Burl- 
d ti iam. 


prefa an. 


xlvi 

Merit ioning the trinity of the Buddhistic system, 
hudrfha , dharmt, $angha 9 lie calls Buddha Buddhodmm t 
which is a mistake for something like the non- of Hv.ddho- 
dan a* Cf. note to i. 40 and i. 380, which latter passage 
is probably derived from the Vi^hrlu-Dharma (on which 
vide note to 1. 54). 

Of Buddhistic authors there are mentioned Candra, 
the grammarian, i. 135 (cf. Kern, QescMcJdc den Ihal- 
dhisnvus in Indian, ii. 520), Kugnva, the author of an 
astronomical work, and a pupil of his., i. 156. 

Of the manners and customs of the Buddhists, only 
their practice of disposing of their dead by throwing 
them into llowing water is mentioned, ii, 169. 

Alberuni speaks (Li. 1 1 ) of a building erected by King 
Kanishka in Peshavar, and called Kamshl^.emiyf^ ns 
existing in his time, most likely identical with that 
stupa which he is reported to have built in cou sequence 
of a prophecy of no less a person than Buddha himself- 
Cf Kern, /. rr 1? ii. 1 S7, The word bihdr, i.c. -tdhdra, which 
Alberuni sometimes nscs in the meaning of temple and 
the like, is of Buddhistic origin. Cf* Kern, l. t\ t ii + 57, 

Among the various kinds of writing used in India, he 
enumerates as the last one the S£ BhaiMhuM^ used in 
Udunp-iir in Fu rvadeia* This last is the writmf of 
Buddha / 1 i . 173. Was th i s T T d 11 npfi r ( we m ay al so read 
Udannaptilsr) the Buddhistic monastery in Magadha, 
ZTdratidajrurf that was destroyed by the Muslims, A.m 
1200 ? Cf Kern, l. e., ii- 543- 

The kosmographic views of the Buddhists, as given 
by Alberuni, i- 249, 3 26. ought to be examined as to 
their origin. Perhaps it will be possible to point out 
the particular Buddhistic book whence they were taken. 

He speaks twice of an antagonism between Buddha 
and Zoroaster, 

If Alberuni had had the same opportunity for travel- 
ling in India as Hiouen-Tsang had, he would easily 
have collected plenty of information on Buddhism* 


PREFA CE, 


xlvii 

Considering the meagre ness- of bis notes on this subject, 
we readily believe that he never found a Buddhistic 
book, and never knew a Buddhist f ‘ from whom I might 
h av e 1 ear n ed the ir th enri es^ i . 2 4 g< ! i i s B rahm an pan - 
dlts probably knew enough of Buddhism, but did not 
choose to tied him. 

Lastly, India, as known to Alberuni, was in matters 
of religion Yishnuitic (misknrtwi), not Sivaitic (Jaim) + 
Vishnu, or Narayana, is the first god in the pantheon of 
his Hindu informants and literary authorities, whilst 
ftiva is only incidentally mentioned, and that not always 
in a favourable manner. This indicates a remarkable 
change in the religions history of those countries, lor 
the predecessors of Mahmud in the rule over Kabuli stan 
and the Parrjab, the Pal a dynasty, were worshippers of 
Siva (cf. Lassen, Indische Atterthuw iskunde. 3, R95), as 
we may judge from their coins, adorned with the image 
of Kami a, the ox of Siva, and from the etymology of 
their names. Cf. note to ii. 13, and Lassen,/, 3, 915. 
The image of Nanda reappears a second time on the. 
coins of the last of the descendants of King Mahmud on 
the throne of Ghazna, 


Conclusion. 

* 

It was in the summer of 1883 that I began to work at 
tli e edition and translation of the 1 1 whan* after living 
fill hi led the literary duties resulting from my journey 
in Syria and Mesopotamia in 1879 and 18 So, A copy 
of the Arabic manuscript had been prepared in 1872, 
and collated hi Stambul in the hot summer months of 

In order to test my comprehension of the book, I 
translated it into German from beginning to end between 
February 1 88 3 and February 1884. In the summer of 
the latter year the last hand was laid to the constitu- 
tion of the Arabic text as it was to be printed. 


xlviii 


PREP A C£. 


In 1BS5-S6 the edition of the Arabic original was 
printed. At the same time I translated the whole book 
a second time, into English, fits ishiog the translation of 
ever} 7 single sheet as the original was carried through 
the press. 

In 1 887 and the first, half of 1 SS8 the English trans- 
lation, with annotations and indices, was printed. 

My work during all these years was not uninter- 
rupted. 

Translating an Arabic book, written in the style of 
Albenrai, into English, is, for a person to whom English 
is not his mother-tongue, an act of temerity, which, 
when I was called upon to commit it, gravely affected 
my conscience to such a degree that I began to falter, 
and seriously thought of giving up the whole thing alto- 
gether. But then there rose up before £i my mind's 
eye >h tlie venerable figure of old MacGuckin de SI and, 
and as he had been gathered to his fathers, I could not 
get back the word I had given him. Of. preface to the 
edition of the Arabic text f p. viii. Assuredly, to do 
justice to the words of Albemni would require a com- 
mand over English like that of Sir Theodore Martin, 
the translator of “ Faust/* or Ohenery, the translator of 
llarbrt. 

A s regards my own translation, I can only say Ijiave 
tried to find common sense in the author’s language, 
and to render it as clearly as I could. In this I was 
greatly assisted by my friend the Rev. Sober t G Wynne, 
Vicar of St. Mary's, Soho, London, whose training in 
Eastern languages and literature qualified him to co- 
operate in revising the entire manuscript and correcting 
the proof sheets. 

Perhaps it will not be superfluous to point out to tho 
reader who does not know Arabic that this language 
sometimes exhibits sentences perfectly clear as to the 
meaning of every single word and the syntactic construc- 
tion, and nevertheless admitting of entirely different 


PREFACE . 


xlix 

interpretations. Besides, a first translator who steers 
out on such a sea, like him who first tries to explain a 
difficult, hardly legible inscription, exposes himself to 
many dangers which he would easily have avoided had 
kind fortune permitted him to follow in the wake of 
other explorers. Under these circumstances, I do not 
flatter myself that I have caught the sense of the author 
everywhere, and I warn the reader not to take a trans- 
lation, in particular a first translation, from Arabic 
for more than it is. It is nothing absolute, but only 
relative in many respects ; and if an Indian ist does not 
find good Indian thought in my translation, I would 
advise him to consult the next Arabic philologist he 
meets. If the two can obtain a better insight into the 
subject-matter, they are very likely to produce a better 
rendering of the words. 

My annotations do not pretend to be a running com- 
mentary on the book, for that cannot be written except 
by a professed Indianist* They contain some informa- 
tion as to the sources used by ALberuni, and as to those 
materials which guided me in translating. On the 
phonetic peculiarities of the Indian words as transcribed 
by A 1 bent i si, the reader may compare a treatise of mine 
called Indo-Arti MscJte Studim, and presented to the 
Royal Academy of Berlin on 2 1st June of this year. 

My friend Dr. Robert Schram, of the University of 
Vienna, has examined aLi the mathematical details of 
chronology and astronomy. The results of his studies 
are presented to the reader in the annotations signed 
with Ids name. All this is Dr + Sch ram’s special domain, 
in which he has no equal. My thanks are dne to him 
for lending me bis help in parts of the work where my 
own attempts at verification, after prolonged exertions 
in the same direction, proved to be insufficient. 

Of the two indices, the former contains all words of 
Indian origin occurring in the book, some pure Sanskrit, 
some vernacular, others in the form exhibited by the 

vol. i. d 


] 


PREFACE. 


Arabic manuscript, howsoever faulty it may be. The 
reader will perhaps here and there derive some advan- 
tage from comparing the index of the edition of the 
Arabic original. The second index contains names of 
persons and places, &c., mostly of non- Indian origin. 

It was the Committee of the Oriental Translation 
Fund, consisting at the time of Osmond de Bean voir 
Prianlx, Edward Thomas, James Fergusson, Rein hold 
Rost, and Theodore G oldstiicker, who first proposed to 
me to translate the Tv<Wl Thomas, Golds tucker, and 
Fergnsson are beyond the reach of human words, but 
to 0. de Beauvoir Friaulx. Esq., and to Dr. Rost, I desire 
to express my sin cerest gratitude for the generous help 
and the untiring interest which they have always ac- 
corded to me, though so many years have rolled on since 
I fi r st pi edged to them my wo r d , Lastly, H er Maj e sty 1 s 
India Office has extended its patronage from the edition 
of the Arabic original also to this edition of the work in 
an English garb. 

Of the works of my predecessors, the famous publica- 
tion of Rein and, the Mtfmoire giographiq-m y Msiorique et 
scurdifiqm mr Unde, Paris, 1849, lias been most useful 
to me, Gf, on this and the labours of my other pre- 
decessors § 2 of the preface to the edition of the Arabic 
origin al> 

The Sanskrit alphabet has been transliterated in the 
following way ; — a t d, % i } u, 4 — ri ai t <m — h kh : g, yh, 
n — t, ck t j t jh, u — th f ri, dh y n — t, ih , d, dh t n — p r ph r 
4 bh, m — y, r, I, v — -w, sh, h. 

EDWARD SACHAU. 

Berlin, August 4, 18SS. 


TABLE OF CONTEXTS. 


(For Atbenmi's Synopsis of the Singh Chapters of the Book, 

vide p p< 9-16,) 


TOL, pAG'E 

1. 3, author’s Preface, 

9, SYNOPSIS OF THE EIGHTY CHAPTERS, 

17, Chapter l, Author’s Special Introduction, 

27. Chapters II, -XL, ok Religion, Philosophy, and 
Related Subjects. 

i2j r Chapters XIL-XVIL, on Literature, Metrology, 
Ubageb, and Related etoPJRgm 
196, Chapters XVJ 1 L-XXXL, on G-eo graph y; COSMO- 
GRAPHY, AND ASTRONOMY. 

319 to Tol. II. p. 129. Chapters XXXII. LXI 3 . P on Chro- 
nology, astronomy, and Related Subjects, 
ii. 130, Chapters LX II I- LX XIX,, on Manners and Cus- 
tom, Festivals, and Related Subjects. 

21 1. Chapter LXXX.i on Astrology* 

247, Annotations of the Translator, 

403-431. Indices. 



A LB EU TINTS INDIA 


AN 


ACCURATE DESURil TlO^ OF ALL CATRGOIilliS 


OF HINDU THOUGHT, 


AS WELL THOSE WHICH ARE ADMISSIBLE AS 
THOSE WHICH MUST BE REJECTED. 


OQMPOS&D BY 

'AJ.SU -A LR.AJ II AN ML HAEMAL* 1BN \\m\\h 

ALBETtUNL 


VOL. 1. 


A 




PREFACE. 


In the Name of God, the Compassionate, the 
Merciful. 

No one will deny that in questions of historic authen- 
ticity hmrmij does not equal eye-witness ; for in the latter 
the eye of the observer apprehends the su bstance of that 
which is observed, both in the time when and in the 
place where it exists t whilst hearsay has its peculiar 
drawbacks. But for these, it would even be preferable 
to eye-witness ; for the object of eye-witness can only be 
actual momentary existence, whilst hearsay comprehends 
alike the present, the past* and the future, so as to apply 
in a certain sense both to that which is and to that 
which is not (i.e. which either has ceased to exist or 
has not yet come into existence). Written tradition 
is one of the species of hearsay — wo might almost Say, 
the most preferable. How could we know the history 
of nations but for the everlasting monuments of the 
pen ? 

The tradition regarding an event which in itself does 
not contradict either logical or physical laws will invari- 
ably depend for its character as true or false upon the 
character of the reporters, who arc influenced by the 
divergency of interests and all kinds of animosities 
and antipathies between the various nations. We must 
distinguish different classes of reporters. 

One of them tells a lie. as intending to further an 


Page =- 


x. Oll tra- 
dition, hear- 
say and eyc- 

The dif- 
ferent kinds 
ctf mporbciE. 

3. Praia □ 
oT truthful- 

IJSEK. 


4 


PREFA CE , 


interest of his own, either % lauding his family or 
nation, because be is one of them, or by attaching 
the family or nation on the opposite side, thinking that 
thereby he can gain his ends. In both eases he acts 
front motives of objectionable cupidity and animosity. 

Another one tells a lie regarding a class of people 
whom he likes, as being under obligations to them, or 
whom he bates because something disagreeable has 
happened between them. Such a reporter is near akin 
to the first-mentioned one, as he too acts from motives 
of personal predilection and enmity. 

Another tells a lie because he is of such a base 
nature as to aim thereby at some profit, or because he 
is such a coward as to be afraid of telling the truth. 

Another tells a lie because it is his nature to lie, and 
he cannot do otherwise, which proceeds from the essen- 
tial meanness of his character and the depravity of his 
innermost being* 

Lastly* a man may tell a lie from ignorance, blindly 
following others who told him. 

If, now, reporters of this kind become so numerous 
as to represent a certain body of tradition, or if in the 
course of time they even come to form a consecutive 
series of communities or nations, both the first reporter 
and his followers form the connecting links between 
the hearer and the inventor of the lie; and il the 
connecting links are eliminated, there remains the 
originator of the story* one of the various kinds of liars 
we have enumerated, as the only person with whom we 
have to deal. 

That man only is praiseworthy who shrinks from a 
lie and always adheres to the truth, enjoying credit- 
even among liars, not: to mention others. 

It has been said in the Koran, s ’ Speak the truth , even if 
it were against yourselves 31 (Sura, 4, 1 34) : and the Messiah 
expresses himself in the Gospel to this effect : “Do not 
mind the f my of tings in speaking the truth before them. 


PREFACE . 


S 


They only possess your body, but they hare no power over 
your sold” {of, St. Matt, x, t 8, 19, 28; St* Luke xii* 4). 

In these words the Messiah orders us to exercise moral 
courage. For what the crowd calls courage— bravely 
dashing into the fight or plunging into an abyss of do- 
st r action — is only a species of courage, whilst the gmus t 
far above all species, is to scorn death > whether by word 
or deed. 

Now as justice (i.e* being just) is a quality liked and 
coveted for its own self, for its intrinsic beauty, the 
same applies to truthfulness except perhaps in the case 
of such people as never tasted how sweet it is, or know 
the truth, but deliberately shun it, like a notorious liar 
who once was asked if he had ever spoken the truth, 
and gave the answer, “If I were not afraid to speak 
the truth , I should say, no,” A liar will avoid the path 
of justice 3 he will, as matter of preference, side with op- 
pression and false witness, breach of confidence, fraudu- 
lent appropriation of the wealth of others, theft, and all 
the vices which serve to ruin the world and mankind. 

When 1 once called upon the master ’AM-Sahl ; n on Uui 
l Abd-Almunim Tbn L All Ibu Nul.i At-tifltsi, may God 
strengthen him ! I found that he blamed the tendency of rBiistfmiH 
the author of a book 011 tkeMu tazila sect to misrepresent pbicudi- 
l.heir theory. For, according to them, God is omniscient 11. E*em 
of himself, and this dogma that author had expressed in rcprdtohie 
such away as to say that God has no hnowkdge (like of 

the knowledge of man), thereby misleading uneducated EjJiuahahr?* 
people to imagine that, according to the Mu'taz Hites, JjL*(?S unt 
God is ypioranL Praise be to God, who h far above all 
such and simitar unworthy descriptions! Thereupon I J 'Yv r Hu 
pointed out to the master that precisely the same method n^!Sci. fa 
is much in fashion among those who undertake the task 
of giving an account of religious and philosophical 
systems from which they slightly differ or to which they 
are entirely opposed. Such misrepresentation is easily 
detected in a report about dogmas comprehended within 


6 


PREFACE. 


P.ig**,, 


the frame of one single religion, because they are closely 
related and blended with each other. On the other hand, 
you would have great difficulty in detecting it in a 
report about entirely foreign systems of thought total! y 
differing both in principle and details, for such a research 
is rather an out-of-the-way one, and there are few means 
of arriving at a thorough comprehension of it. The 
same tendency prevails throughout otir whole literature 
on philosophical and religious sects. If such an author 
is not alive to the requirements of a strictly scientific 
method, he will procure some superficial information 
which wilt satisfy neither the adherents of the doctrine 
in question nor those who really know it. In such a 
case* if he be au honest character, he will simply 
retract, and feel ashamed ; but. if lie be so base as not 
to give due honour to truth , he will persist in litigious 
wrangling for his own original standing-point. If, on 
the contrary, an author has the right method, he will do 
his utmost to deduce the tenets of a sect from their 
legendary loro, things which people tell him, pleasant 
enough to listen to. but which he would never dream of 
taking for true or believing. 

In order to illustrate the point of our conversation, 
one of those present referred to the religions and doc- 
trines of the Hindus by way of an example. There- 
upon I drew their attention to the fact that everything 
which exists on this subject in our literature is second- 
hand information which one lias copied from the other, 
a farrago of materials never sifted by the sieve of 
critical examination. Of all authors of this class, I know 
only one who had proposed to himself to give a simple 
and exact report of the subject sine ird etc- sktdiOj vise, 
T Abu-al'abbus Al&r&n&hahrt. He himself did not believe 
in any of the then existing religions, but was the sole 
believer in a religion invented by himself, which he 
tried to propagate. He has given a very good account 
of the doctrines of the Jews and Christians as well as 


PREFACE , 


7 


of the contents of both the Thor a and the Gospel. 
Besides, he furnishes us with a most- excellent account 
of the Manichsaaos* and of obsolete religions of bygone 
times which are mentioned in their books* But when 
he came in his book to speak of the Hindus and the 
Buddhists, his arrow missed the mark, and in the latter 
part he went astray through hitting upon the book of 
Zarkd/ii, the contents of which he incorporated in his 
own work. That, however, which he has not taken 
from ZarM/i, he himself has beard from common people 
among Hindus and Buddhists. 

At a subsequent period the master * Abn-Sahl studied 
the books in question a second time, and when he found 
the matter exactly as I have boro described it, he incited 
me to write down what I know about the Hindus as a 
help to those who want to discuss religious questions 
with them, and as a repertory of information to those 
who want to associate with them* In order to please 
him I have done so, and written this book on the 
doctrines of the Hindus, never making any unfounded 
imputations against those, our religions antagonists, and 
at the same time not considering it inconsistent with 
my duties as a Muslim to quote their own words at full 
length when J thought they would contribute to eluci- 
date a subject. If the contents of these quotations 
happen to be utterly heathenish, and the followers of the 
truth, i.$> the Muslims, find them objectionable, we can 
only say that such is the belief of the Hindus, and that 
they themselves are best qualified to defend it. 

This book is not a polemical one* I shall not produce 
the arguments of our antagonists in order to refute such 
of them as I believe to be in the wrong. My book is 
nothing but a simple historic record of facts. I shall 
place before the reader the theories of the Hindus 
exactly as they are, and I shall mention in connection 
with them similar theories of the Greeks in order to 
show' the relationship existing between them* For the 


PREFACE. 


S 

Greek philosophers* although aiming at truth in the 
abstract, never in all questions of popular bearing rise 
much above the customary exoteric expressions and 
tenets both of their religion and law. Besides Greek 
ideas wo shall only now and then mention those of the 
Sftfis or of some one or other Christian sect, because in 
their notions regarding the transmigration of souls and 
the pantheistic doctrine of the unity of God with crea- 
tion there is much in common between these systems, 

I have already translated two books into Arabic, one 
about the origmes and a description of all created 
beings., called Swirtkhya } and another about the emanci- 
pation of the soul from the fetters of the body, called 
Patmijali (Ptiianjala /} . These two books contain most 
of the elements of the belief of the Hindus, but not 
all the single rules derived therefrom. 1 hope that the 
present book will enable the reader to dispense with 
these two earlier ones, and with other books of the same 
kind ; that it will give a sufficient representation of the 
subject, and will enable him to make himself thoroughly 
ncq u ai nted w i th it- God willing! 


TABLE OF CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER !. 

ON THE HINDUS ]N GENERAL, AS AN INTRODUCTION TO CUE Fag* 5 . 
AMOUNT OK THEM. 


CHAPTER II* 

ON THIS BELIEF OK THE IE E h' D IN GOD- 


CHAPTER ML 

ON THE HINDU I5IUJEP AH TO CREATED THINGS, BOTH 
11 IN TELL I OIRI LI A” AND ‘ ‘ SENS! ElLlA. 1r 


CH AFTER IV. 

FROM mi AT CAUSE AfJTTON OR HU NATES, AND HOW THE SOUL 
IS CONNECTED WITH M VI’TfUH 


CHAPTER V. 

ON THE STATE OF THE SOI LS, AND Til El El MIGRATIONS THROUGH 
THE WORLD IN THE M UTEHP3 Y C1IOSI 5- 


C II AFTER VI. 

ON THE D1FFEBHNT WORLDS, AND ON THE PLACES OF 
ICiCTniRUTION IN PARADISE AND HELL. 


CHAPTER VII. 

ON Tils NATURE OF LJ 3.1 IS Li AT ION FROM THE WOBLD, AND ON 
THE PATH LEAD TN U Til E I IETO. 


CONTENTS, 


CHAPTER VIII. 

CJii THE DIltfigtJfiKrr OLAasKB UK CRlGATEli isklSOS, AND ON 
THE JR NAHML 

CHAPTER IX. 

ON THE UASTJS3, CALLED :i COLOURS ” (VAI^A), AND ON THU 
CLASSES RELOW THEM. 

CHAPTER X. 

ON THE SOURCE OF THEIR RELIGIOUS AND CIVIL LAW, ON 
PROPHETS, AND ON THE QUESTION WHETHER SINGLE LAWS 
CAN BE ABROGATED OH NOT, 

CHAPTER XL 

ABOUT TIIE BEGINNING OF IDOL- WORSHIP, AND A TJ|2S0Rl FTION 
OF THE INDIVIDUAL IDOLS,. 

CHAPTER XI L 

ON Til li! VEOx\, THE PUrInAB* A N D OT HER KINDS OF THEIR 
N A T J ON A I j LI T UR AT UR 13. 

CHAPTER XITT, 

THEIR GRAMMATICAL AND METRICAL LITERATURE. 

CHAPTER XIV. 

Ill N DU LIT Eli A TUB 33 IN TH E £ ) T J 1 E li S ( ! E N C ES —A STS ON OM Y , 
AST R O 3 .Ofi Y , ]3T0. 

CHAPTER XV, 

NOTES ON HINDU M ETHOLOGY, INTENDED TO FACILITATE THE 
UND1CRST AN DING OF ALL K IN Drf. OK MEASUREMENTS WHICH 
OCCUR IN THIS BOOK. 

CHAPTER XVI. 

NOTES ON THE WRITING C)J.’ Til 33 HINDUS, ON TJlLlR AUI'Mi 
M ETI C AND RELATED SUBJECTS, AND ON CERTAIN STRANGE 
MANNERS AND CUSTOMS OK TJIEIES. 

CHAPTER XVII. 

ON HINDU SCIENCES WHICH PEEY ON THE JGH ORANGE OF 
PEOPLE, 


CONTENTS. 


1 1 


CHAPTER XVIII. 

V A HI 0 US 2S OT ES ON Tf [ r: I IE Co UNT ILY, TO Is r li ft I V liRS, A ND T II EIR 
DC KAN— irJNIlSiAlM Eft OF THE III STANCES Ji ET W ft FN THEIR 
SEVERAL KINGDOMS, AND ItETWKleN THE BOUND AEI ES OF 
THEEE COUNTRY. 


CHAPTER XIX, 

ON TETR NAMES OF THE PLANETS, THE SIC NS OF THE ZODIAC, 
THE LUNAR STATIONS, AND RELATED SUBJECTS, 

OHAPTEK XX. 

ON THE IJRAIIMANOA. 

chapter xxi, 

DESCRIPTION OF EARTH AND HEAVEN ACCORDING TO THE 
RELIGIOUS VIEWS OT TlfE 1 1 INDUS, EASED UPON THEIR 
TE ADITIONAl. LITERATURE, 

CHAPTER XX 3 II. 

TRADITIONS RE LATINO TO THE POLE* 

CHAPTER XXII L 

ON MOUNT MERIT ACCORDING TO THE RELIEF OF THE AUTHORS 
OF THE l J UR AN AS AND OF OTHERS- 

CHAPTER XXIV. 

T R ADI TI ONS 0 F II I E F V RAN AS H HQ A I E D I N ( ' E AC El OF 1 1 H E ft EV E S 
DVlPAS. 

CHAPTER XXV, 

ON THE El V EES OF INDIA, THEIR SOURCES AND COURSES. 

C II AP'J 1 13 Ji XXVI* 

ON THE SHAPE OF HEAVEN AND EARTH ACCORDING TO THE 
HINDU ASTRONOMERS* 

CHAPTER X.XYIL 

ON THE FIRST TWO MOTIONS OF THE UNIVERSE (THAT FROM 
EAST TO WEST ACCORDING TO ANCIENT ASTRONOMER ft, AND 
THE r RECESSION OF THE E<J l.U NON Eft) ROTH ACCORDING TO 
THE HINDU ASTRONOMERS AND THE AUTHORS OF THE 
P DRAIN Aft* 


Page 6, 


12 


CONTENTS . 


chapter xxyni, 

ON T r I I : DEFINITION OF THE TEN DIRECTIONS, 

CHAPTER XXIX, 

DEFINITION OF THE IN II ABIT ABLE EARTH ACCORDING TO THE 
HINDUS. 

CHAPTER *XX. 

UN 1,ANlKA r OR THE CUPOLA OF THE EARTH. 

CHAPTER XXXI, 

OS THAT DIFFERENCE OF VARIOUS PLACES WHICH WE CALL 
THE DIFFERENCE OF LONGITUDE. 

CHAPTER XXXII, 

ON THE NOTIONS OF DURATION AND TIME IN (JEN REAL, AND ON 
THE CREATION OF Till-: WORLD AND ITS 1 > K ST R L' C-T 1 0 N - 

CHAPTER XXXIII. 

ON THE VARIOUS KINDS OF THE DAY OR NYCIITH EMERON, AND 
ON DAY AN Li SIGHT IN P A I IT L< JP L A EJ. 

CHAPTER XXXIV, 

ON THE DIVISION OF THE NYCKTHEMREON INTO III NO It 

part t ci*E3 uf Time. 

CHAPTER XXXV. 

ON THE DIFFERENT KINDS OF MONTHS AND VEAli*. 

CHAPTER XXXVI. 

ON THE four measures OF TIME CALLED MANA, 

CHAPTER XXXV [I. 

ON THE PARTS OF THIS MONTH AND TUD YlLUt, 

CHAPTER XXXVIII, 

UN THE VARIOUS MEASURES OF TIME COMPOSED OF DAYS* THE 
LIFE OF BRAHMAN INCLUDED, 


CONTENTS, 


J 3 


CHAPTER XXXIX. 

ON MEASURES OF TIME WHICH ARE LARGER THAN THE LIFE 
OF BRAHMAN, 

CHAPTER XL. 

ON THE .HAM Dill, THE INTERVAL BETWEEN TWO T ISRI O D E OF 
TIME, FORMING THE CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN THEM, 

CHAPTER XLL 

OE I'M BTXIUN < >F T EMC T FTtMS " K A L i>A 11 AND “ 0 AT UR ¥ II 1>A ” AND Page 7 . 
AN EXPLICATION OF THE ONE BY HIE OTHER. 

CHAPTER XLII. 

ON Till! DIVISION OF THE CAT UR YOG A INTO YUO AS, AND THE 
DIFFERENT OPINIONS REGARDING THE LATTER. 

chapter xliil 

A DESCRIPTION OF THE FOUR YUOA^ AND OF .M.h THAI’ TS 

expected to take place at the end of the fourth 

YUfM. 

CHAPTER XL IV. 

ON THE MANVANTAEAS. 

CHAPTER XLV. 

05 THE CONSTELLATION OF THE GREAT HEAR. 


CHAPTER XL VI, 

ON NAHA VAN A, JUS APPEARANCE AT DIFFERENT TIMES, AND 
HIS NAMES. 

CHAPTER XLVII. 

ON VASUDEYA AND T11E WARS OF THE IiH ARATA, 

CHAPTER XLTLII. 

AN EXPLANATION OF THE MEASURE OF AN AKSHAUHINL 

CHAPTER XLDL 

A SUM 11 ARY DESCRIPTION OF THE ERAS. 


M 


CONTENTS. 


CHAjTEB 

IIOW MANY STAR-CYCLES T ! r Hit IS ARE BOTH IN A 14 KALB A '' AND 
IN A Jp CATUETtIGAP 

chapter lj. 

AM EXPLANATION OF THE TEEMS +4 ADHIMABA/' 44 fisARATRAP 
AND T.E I IS L A 1 3 A JCI.4AN A S 3 AS RE f BE SEN T I NR DIFFE R EN T 
SUMS OF DAYS, 

CHAPTER LIL 

ON THE CALCULATION OF * f AHAftGA\A M IN O-ExRlIALt THAT Jtft # 
THE RESOLUTION OF YEARS AND MONTHS INTO DAYS, ANJ> f 
VICE VERSA, THE COMPOSITION OF YEARS AND MONTHS 
OUT OF DAYS. 


CHAPTER Lin. 

ON THE AH ARCANA, OR THU RESOLUTION OF YEARS INTO 
MONTHS, ACCORDING TO SPECIAL RULES WHICH ARE ADOPTED 
IN THE CALENDARS FOR CERTAIN DATES OR MOMENTS OF 
TIME, 


CHAPTER L1V, 

ON THE 0OM I 1 UTATION OF THE MEAN PLACES OF THE PLANETS- 

CHAP! 1 EH LY. 

ON THE ODDER OF THE PLANETS, THEIR DISTANCES AN D SIZES, 


CHAPTER I, YU 

ON THE STATIONS OF THE MOON, 

CHAPCER LVIL 

ON THE II RLIACAL KESENGS OF THE STAR9> AND ON THE CERE- 
MONIES AND RITES WHICH THE HINDUS PRACTISE AT * I.JO 1 1 
A MOMENT, 


CHAPTER LYIIT. 

HOW ERR AND FLOW FOLLOW EACH OTHER IN THE OCEAN, 


CHAPTER LIX, 


ON THE SOLAR AND LUNAR ECLIPSES, 


contents . 


IS 


CHAPTER LX, 

05 THU PAEYAN. 

CHAPTER LXI. 

j i n t ri I'j d o m 1 5 ah t S o ]■’ r 1 1 rc ,n i jr p ere n t m e abu a eh t > f n ’ r yi e in 

BOTH RELIGIOUS AND ASTRONOMICAL RELATIONS, AND ON 
00 N .%■ EOT E 1 > S V l>J L 'C T9, 

CHAPTER LXIL 

ON THE SIXTY YEARS*- SAM V ATS ABA , ALSO CALLED 

m sbashtyarda !P 

CHAPTER LXI II, 

ON THAT WHICH ESPECIALLY CONCERNS THE BRAHMANS, AND 
WHAT THEY ARE OBLIGED TO DO DURING THEIR W HOLE 
LIFE. 

chapter lxiv. 

ON Tins liJ.TfiS AND GH&TOMS WHICH THE OTHER CASTES, BESIDES 
TIIU BRAIIMANS, Fit A UTIS E DU JONG THEIR L I F INTI M E , 


CHAPTER LXV. 

ON THE SACRIFICES. 


CHAPTER LX VI. 

05 PI LG HIM A i : H AND THE VISITING OF SACRED r LACES. 

t CH AFTER LXV II A 

ON ALMS, AND II OW A MAN MUST SPEND WHAT HE EARNS. 

CHAPTER L XV III. 

ON WHAT JS A now ED AND FORBIDDEN IN DATING AND 
DRIN K J NG. 


CHAPTER LX IX, 

ON MATimiONY, THE MENSTRUAL COURSES, EMBRYOS, AND 
CHILDBED. 


Ta£ti B. 


l6 


CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER LXX. 

ON LAWSUITS, 

* CHAPTER LXX3. 

ON PUNJ5KIHENTS AND EXPIATIONS, 

CHAPTER LXXJL 

ON INHERITANCE, AND WHAT CLAIM THE DECEASED PERSON 
HAS ON IT* 

CHAPTER LXXIII. 

ABOUT WHAT IS DUE TO THE BODIES OF TTJE DEAD ANU ON 
THE LI VINO f Til AT IS, ABOUT BUSYING AND SUICIDE}* 

CHAPTER HXXIV* 

ON FASTING, AND THE VARIOUS KINDS OF IT. 

CHAPTER LXXV. 

ON THE DETERMINATION OF THE FAST- DAYS. 

CHAPTER LXXYL 

ON THE FESTIVALS AND FESTIVE DAYS* 

CHAPTER LXXVII. 

ON DAYS WHICH ARE HELD IN SPECIAL VENERATION, ON LUCKY 
AND PN LUCKY TIMES, AND ON SUCH TIMES As A 111-; PAR- 
TICULARLY FAVOURABLE FOR AOQU.UMNLi JN THEM BLISS 
JN HEAVEN. 

CHAPTER L XX VII I h 

ON THE KARAN AS. 

CHAPTER LXXIX. 

on Th e yogas. 

CHAPTER LX XX. 

ON THE INTRODUCTORY PRINCIPLES OF HINDU ASTJmLWiY, WITH 
A SHORT DESCRIPTION OF THEtR JA BTUDDS OF ASTROLOmCAl. 
CALCULATIONS. 


( 17 ) 


CHAPTER I. 

ON THE HINDUS IN GENERAL, AW AN INTRODUCTION 
TO OUIi ACCOUNT OF THEM. 

BEFORE entering on our exposition, wo must form an 
adequate idea of that which renders it so particularly difl- 
fic u It to [i t ‘ n etrate to tk o ess en ti a 1 n at n re of any It nil an 
i 1 1 bj ect l 1 he knowl ed ge of t h e ee difn cu Ities wi 11 e ith er 
facilitate the progress of our work, or serve as an apology 
for any shortcomings of ours. For the reader must 
always bear in mind that the Hindus entirely differ 
from us in every respect, many a subject appearing 
intricate and obscure which would be perfectly clear 
it' there were more connection between us. Tim barriers 
which separate Muslims and Hindus rest on different 
causes. 

First, they differ from ns in everything which other 
nations have in common. And here we first mention 
the language, although the difference of language also 
exists between other nations. If you want to conquer 
this difficulty (i.e. to learn Sanskrit), you will not find 
it easy, because the language is of an enormous range, 
both in words and inflections, something like the 
Arabic, calling one and the same thing by various 
names, both original and derived, and using one and 
the same word for a variety of subjects, which, in order 
to be properly understood, must be distinguished from 
eacl i Lit 1 1 er by v ari n n s q ual if y mg epithe ts > For n ob ody 
could distinguish between the various meanings of a 
word unless he understands the context in which it 
VOL. L B 


Pa#e g, 


Ite scrip - 
tiuu t*F iho 
barriers 
■which se- 
parata the- 
ilitLdim 
frocn the 
MuhIlhih. 
and make 
it so part-x- 
eulmrlj' dif- 
ficult fora 
M u si E m i o 
fttudy at>y 
Indiilh 
subject. 


Fiiwt. r&x- 
son: Dif- 
ference ol 
tlae luii- 
JJUlAiii.: Uttd 
II k JHWtt’ 
dllftf 
liilt'irUr 


iS 


A LB HR UNI'S INDIA . 


occurs, and its relation both to the following and the 
preceding parts of the sentence. The Hindus, like 
other people, boast of this enormous range of their lan- 
guage, whilst, in reality it is a defect. 

further, the language Is divided into il neglected 
vernacular one, only in use among the common people, 
and a classical one, only in use among the upper and 
ad 1 1 eat ed cl asse s , wh icl i is much c uhivated . and su bj ect 
to the rules of grammatical inflection and etymology, 
and to all the niceties of grammar and rhetoric. 

Besides, some of the sounds (consonants) of which 
the language is composed are neither identical with the 
sounds of Arabic and Persian, nor resemble them in 
a 1 ly vc ay . 0 ur ton gut* ai id u v n 1 a co n kl sc a roe ly mao ago 

to correctly pronounce them, nor our ears in hearing to 
distinguish them from similar sounds, nor could we 
transliterate them with our characters. It is very 
difllcu It., therefore } to express an Indian word in our 
writing, for in order to fix the pronunciation we must 
change our orthographical points and signs, ami must 
pronounce the case- endings either according to Un- 
common Arabic rules or according to special rules 
adapted for the purpose. 

Add to this that the Indian scribes are careless, and 
do not take pains to produce correct and well-collated 
copies. In consequence, the highest results of the 
author’s mental development are lost by their negli- 
gence, and his book becomes already in the first or 
second copy so full of faults, that, the text appears as 
something entirely new, which neither a scholar nor 
one familiar with the subject, whether Hindu or Muslim, 
could any longer under stand. It will sufficiently illus- 
trate the matter if we ted the reader that we have 
sometimes written down a word from the mouth of 
Hindus, taking the greatest pains to fix its pronuncia- 
tion, and that afterwards whon we repeated it to them, 
they had great difficulty in recognising it. . 


CHAPTER L 


jg 


As in other foreign tongues, so also its Sanskrit, two 
nr three consonants may folio w each other wit lion t an 
intervening vowel — consonants which in our Persian 
grammatical system are considered as having a hidden 
vowel. Since most Sanskrit words and names begin 
wit] i such consonants without vowels, we find it very 
difficult to pronounce them. 

Besides, the scientific books of the Hindus are com- 
posed in various favourite metres, by which they intend, 
considering that the books soon become corrupted by 
additions and omissions, to preserve them exactly as 
they are, in order to facilitate their being learned by 
heart, because they consider as canonical only that 
which is known by heart, not that which exists in 
writing, Now it is well known that iu all metrical 
compositions there is much misty and constrained 
phraseology merely intended to fill up the metre and 
serving as a kind of patchwork, and this necessitates 
a certain amount of verbosity* This Is also one of 
the reasons why a word has sometimes one meaning 
and sometimes another. 

From all this It will appear that the metrical form 
of literary composition is one of the causes which 
make the study of Sanskrit literature so particularly 
difficult. 

Secondly ? they totally differ from ns in religion, as Strand ..ran- 
we believe in nothing in which they believe, and oka 
On the whole, there ia very little disputing 
about theological topics among themselves ; at the 
utmost, they fight with words, but they will never stake 
their soul or body or their property on religious contro- 
versy. On the contrary, all their fanaticism is directed 
against those who do not belong to them — against all 
foreigners. They call them mleceha, i.c. impure, and 
forbid having] any connection with them, be it by 
intermarriage or any other kind of relationship, or 
by sitting, eating, and drinking with them, because 


20 


ALBERUN1S INDIA. 


Third rust- 
aon; The 
l-adlwi liir. 
furiitLCL! of 
I hair hi:lh- 
utr.i jusd, 
aiiEjtome. 


thereby, they think, they would be polluted. They 
consider as impure any thing which touches the lire 
and the water of a foreigner- and no household can 
exist without these two elements. Besides, they never 
desire that a thing which once has been polluted should 
be purified and thus recovered, as, under ordinary eir- 
cum stances, if anybody or anything has become unclean, 
he or it would strive to regain the state of purity. 
They are not allowed to receive anybody who does not 
belong to them, even if ho wished it. or was inclined to 
their religion. This, too, renders any connection with 
them quite impossible, and constitutes the widest gulf 
between us and therm 

In the third place, in all manners and usages they 
differ from ns to such a degree as to frighten their 
children with us, with our dress, and our ways and 
customs, arid as to declare us to be devil’s breed, and 
our doings as the very opposite of all that is good and 
proper. By the by. we must confess, in order to be 
just, that a similar depreciation of foreigners not only 
prevails among us and the Hindus^ but is common to 
all nations towards each other, I recollect a Hindu 
who wreaked his vengeance on us for the following 
reason : — 

Some Hindu king had perished at the hand of an 
enemy of hie who had marched against him from our 
country* After his death there was born a child to 
him, which succeeded him, by the name of Sagam. 
On coming of age, the young man asked hie mother 
about his father, and then she told him what had hap- 
pened. Now he was inflamed with hatred, marched 
out of his country into the country of the enemy, and 
plentifully satiated his thirst of vengeance upon them, 
A f tor hav mg be com e t i red of ^ lay gl 1 1 eri ng , h e con j pell c d 
the survivors to dross in our dress, which was meant as 
an ignominious punishment for them. When 1 heard 
of it, I felt thankful that he was gracious enough not 


CHAPTER l. 


21 


to compel us to Indianise ourselves and to adopt Hindu 
dress and manners* 

Another circumstance which increased the already 
existing antagonism between Hindus and foreigners is 
that the so-called Shamaniyy a (Buddhists), though they 
cordially hate the 1 !rah mans, still are nearer akin to 
t J i cm t.h ai l to ot h e rs . I n fo rni e r tim e s, K h u ra? an , I Vi rsis, 
Irak, Mosul, the country up to the frontier of Syria, 
was Buddhistic* but. then Zarathnstra went forth from 
Adluirbaijan and preached Magism in Balkh (Baktra) 
His doctrine came into favour with King Gnshtasp, 
and his son IsfendiyM spread the new faith both in 
fast and west, both by force and by treaties He 
founded fire-temples through his whole empire, from 
the frontiers of China to those of the Greek empire. 
The succeeding kings made their religion (ix. Zoroas- 
trianism) the obligatory state-religion for Persia and 
‘Tri’ik. In consequence, the Buddhists were banished 
from those countries, and had to emigrate t.o the coun- 
tries east of Balkh. There are some Magians up to the 
present time in India, where they are called Mtuja. 
From that time dates their aversion towards the coun- 
tries of Khurasan. But then came Islam; the Persian 
empire perished, and the repugnance of the Hindus 
against foreigners increased more and more when the 
M n slims began to make thej r inroads into their country ; 
lor Muhammad Tbn El has is n Ibn Glnuinabbih entered 
Sindh from the side of Sijist -dti (Sakastene) and conquered 
the cities of Rahumnwa and MfUasthfuia, the former of 
which he called A! -mans dm, the latter Jl-ma^viura. 
\ le entered India proper, and penetrated even as far as 
Kanan j, marched through the country of GamUmra, and 
on his way back, through the confines of Kashmir, some- 
times fighting sword in hanrfi sometimes gaining his ends 
by treaties, leaving to the people their ancient belief, 
except in the case of those who wanted to become Mus- 
lims. All these events planted a deeply rooted hatred 
in their hearts. 


FmiL‘ 1 Si f£!;\- 
Ean : Ave!’- 
eEit-ci of the 
Biiddiiiflta 
towards t Lie 
COllD tri-QB <jf 
t-Lu Weflt. 
whaucomoy 
li \d lwcis 
□.xjuiEk'd. 
i'i rst inroad h 
i-i F the Uhk- 
Liiu s- into 
India, 


P- 4£- 1 1, 


22 


A LB E RUN PS INDIA , 


JiviLQljl- 
lltCidiUj rjrnL- 
H i [c&t f .f tli a 
country by 
M.tlmi i id. ■ 


Flftli ve:> 
fo]j : Tin'. 

Fid f-'rrtlGL'i I, 
of ill a Hin- 
dus, LTtki 1 
their rii:- 
| •L-OC i U 1 1 1 1 I’.if 
jLEiytbin^ 
foreign, 


Now in the following times no Muslim conqueror 
passed beyond the frontier of Kabul and the river Sindh 
until the days of the Turks, when they seized the power 
in Ghazna under the Sumftni dynasty, and the supremo 
power fell to the lot of Nusir-addaula Sabuktagin, 
This prince chose the holy war as his calling, and there- 
fore called himself Al-ghdsst (he. warring on the road of 
A llahf In th e int crest of h i a s u cc essors l le con a i rn cU d , 
in order to weaken the Indian frontier, those roads 
on which afterwards his son Y amirs -ad dan la MaUmftd 
marched into India during a period of thirty years and 
more. God be merciful to both father and son f Mah- 
mud utterly rained the prosperity of the country, and 
performed there wonderful exploits, by which the Hindus 
Locarno like atoms, of dust scattered in all directions, 
and like a tale of old in the mouth of the people. Their 
scattered remains cherish, of course, the most Inveterate 
aversion towards all Muslims. This in the reason, too, 
why Hindu sciences have retired far away from those 
parts of the country conquered by us, and have fie d to 
places which our hand cannot yet reach, to Kashmir, 
Benares, and other places. And there the antagonism 
between them and all foreigners receives more and 
more nourishment both from political and religions 
sources. 

Iti Use fifth place, there are other causes, the men tinn- 
ing of which sounds like a satire— peculiarities of their 
national character, deeply rooted in them, but manifest 
to everybody. We can only say, folly is an illness for 
which there is no medicine, and the Hindus believe that 
there is no country but. theirs-, no nation like theirs* no 
kings like theirs, no religion like theirs, no science like 
theirs. They are haughty, foolishly vain, self -conceited, 
and stolid. They are by nature niggardly in communi- 
cating that which they know, and they take the greatest 
possible care to withhold it from men of another caste 
among their own people, still much more, of course. 


CHAPTER I . 


-3 

from an y foreigner. Accords Mg to their belief, there is 
no other country on earth, but theirs, no other race of 
man but theirs, and no created beings besides: them have 
any knowledge or science whatsoever. Their haughti- 
ness is such that, if yon tell them of any science or 
scholar in Khurasan and Persia, they will think yon to 
be both an ignoramus and a liar. If they travelled and 
mixed with other nations, they would soon change their 
mind, for their ancestors were not as narrow-minded 
as the present- generation is. One of their scholars, 

V a rah ami hirst, In a passage where he calls on the people 
to honour the Brahmans, says : u The Greeks, though 
impure, must he honoured f since they were trained in 
sciences, and therein exe&Ued others, IF hat, then, are 
we to say of a Brahman, if he combines with his rv^m 
purity the height of sciemeV* In former times, the 
Hindus used to acknowledge that the progress of science 
due to the Greeks is much more important than that 
which Is due to themselves. But from Lhis passage of 
Varfthamihira alone you see what a self-lauding man 
he is, whilst he gives himself airs as doing justice to 
others. At first I stood to their astronomers ir» the 
relation of a pupil to his master, being a stranger 
among them and. not acquainted with their peculiar 
nati o n al an d trad ition al m ethods of scie u ce . 0 n h av ing 

made some progress, T began to show them the elements 
on which this science rests, to point out to them some 
rules of logical deduction and the scientific methods of 
all mathematics, and then they flocked together round 
me from all parts, wondering, and most eager to learn 
from me, asking me at the same time from what Hindu 
master I had learnt those things, whilst in reality I 
showed them what they were worth, and thought myself 
a great deal superior to them, disdaining to be put on a 
level with them. They almost thought me to bo a 
sorcerer, and when speaking of me to their leading men 
in their native tongue, they spoke of me as the sea or as 


24 


ALBERUNPS INDIA r 


L'trs^onftl 
r-etfttioiLB of 
the author. 


The: Aul liur 
Iks 

ii i L-u]j tiou of 
iMunpari ng 
Greek 
11 1 uuriCB r 
llcCausc nf 
their being 
hear akin, 

Ati i.l of their 
Strictly 
f+fieiltifiO 
lillAtrACteir A* 
i Am trA¥U:d. 
wSLIi th wt of 
llio IJijH'lU?, 


the water -which is so acid that vinegar in eomjm'ison is 
sweet. 

Now such is tin; state of tilings in India, I have 
found it very hard to work my way into the subject, 
although I have a great liking for it, in which reaped S 
stand quite alone in my time, and although I do not 
spare either trouble or money in collecting Sanskrit 
books from places where 1 supposed they were likely 
lo be found, and in procuring for myself, even from very 
remote places, Hindu scholars who understand then i 
and arc able to teach me. What scholar, however, has 
the same favourable opportunities of studying this sub- 
ject as 3 have V That would be only the cast: with one 
to whom the grace of God accords, what it did not 
accord to me, a perfectly free disposal of his own doings 
and goings j for it has never fallen to my lot in my own 
doings and goings to bo perfectly independent, nor to 
be invested with sufficient power to dispose and to order 
as I thought best-. However, 1 thank God for that 
which He ha? bestowed upon me, and which must be 
considered as sufficient for the purpose. 

The heathen Greeks, before the rise of Christianity, 
held much the same opinions as the Hindus? their 
educated classes thought much the same as those of 
th e 1 lii id it s ; the i r com m oi i peopl e h e 1 d th o sain e 
idolatrous views as those of the Hindus. There- 
fore I like to confront- the theories of the one nation 
with those of the other simply on account of their 
close relationship, not in order to correct them. For 
that which is not the truth- [ic, the true belief or 
monotheism) does not admit of any correction, and all 
heathenism, whether Greek or Indian, is in its pith and 
marrow one and the same belief, because it is only a 
deviation from- the truth . The Greeks, however, had 
philosophers who, living in their country, discovered 
and worked out for them the elements of science, not of 
popular superstition, for it is the object of the upper 


CHAPTER I. 


*5 

classes to be guided by the results of science, whilst the 
comm 011 crowd will always be inclined to plunge into 
wrong-headed wrangling, as long as they are not kept 
down by fear of punishment. Think of Socrates when 
he opposed the crowd of his nation as to their idolatry 
and did not want to call the stars gods I At once eleven 
of the twelve judges of the Athenians agreed on a sen- 
tence of death, and Socrates died faithful to the truth. 

The Hindus had no men of this stamp both capable 
and willing to bring sciences to a classical perfection. 

Therefore you mostly find that even the so-called 
scientific theorems of the Hindus are in a state of utter 
confusion, devoid of any logical order, and in the last in- 
stauceal way s mixed up with the silly notions of the crowd, 

$.ft. immense numbers, enormous, spaces of time, and 
all kinds of religious dogmas, which the vulgar belief 
does not admit of being called into question-. Therefore 
it is a prevailing practice among the Hindus jnrare in 
verba- matfi&iri ; and I can only compare their mathema- 
tical and astronomical literature, as far as I know it, to 
a mixture of pearl shells and sour dates, or of pearls Pas* es- 
and dung, or of costly crystals and common pebbles. 

Both kinds of things are equal in their eyes, since they 
cannot raise themselves to the methods of a strictly 
scientific deduction. 

In most parts of my work [ simply relate without Tbe imttiort 
c r l t i ci s i 1 1 g, uni ess tl le re be a spool a I mis u 11 ft jr do in g so, 

1 mention the necessary Sanskrit names and technical 
forms once where the context of our explanation de- 
mands it. If the word is an origimd one, the meaning 
of which can be rendered in Arabic, 1 only use the 
co r resj k > tid i rs g A ral n i c w u rd ; i f , 1 low ever . t. 3 1 e Sai i s k n t. 
word be more practical, we keep this, trying to trans- 
late rate it as accurately as possible. If the word is a 
secondary or dmved one, but in general use, we also 
keep it, though there be a corresponding term in Arabic, 
but. before using it we explain its signification. In 


2(3 


ALBERUNFS INDIA . 


tbi^ way we have tried to facilitate the understand mg 
of the terminology. 

Lastly, we observe that we cannot always in our 
discussions strictly adhere to the geometrical method, 
only referring to that which precedes and never to that 
which follows, as we must sometimes introduce in a 
chapter an unknown factor, the explanation of which 
can only be given in a later part of the book, God 
helping us ! 


( *7 ) 


CHAPTER IL 

ON THE BELIEF OF TIIE HINDUS IN GOD. 

The belief of educated and uneducated people differs in 
every nation ; for the former strive to conceive abstract 
ideas and to define general principles, whilst the latter 
do not pass beyond the apprehension of the senses, and 
are content with derived rules, without caring for de- 
tails, especially in questions of religion and law* regard- 
ing which opinions and interests are divided. 

The Hindus believe with regard to Cod that he is 
one. eternal, without beginning and end, noting by free- 
will, almighty, all- wise, living, giving life, ruling, pre- 
serving; one who in his sovereignty is unique, beyond 
all likeness and unlike ness, and that he does not re- 
semble anything nor does anything resemble him. In 
order to illustrate this we shall produce some extracts 
from their literature, lest the reader should think that 
our account is nothing but hear say „ 

Tn the book of Fatah] all the pupil asks : 
f< Who is the worshipped one, by the worship of whom 
blessing is obtained ? ?I 
The master says : 

<£ It- is ho who, being eternal and unique, does not for 
his part stand in nee d o [ an y h u mai 1 ac tion for win cl t 
he might give as a recompense either a blissful repose, 
which is hoped and longed, for, or a troubled existence, 
which is feared and dreaded. He is unattainable to 
thought, being sublime beyond all unlikeness which is 
abhorrent and all likeness which is sympathetic, lie 


The Tuttnrc 
of God. 


Qi i ntation 
from 


2S 


ALBERUNFS INDIA. 


by iiis essence knows from all eternity. Knowledge, in 
the human sense of the term, lias as its object that 
which was ■v.nknmtm- before* whilst not hnomng does 
not at any time or in any condition apply to Cod. 5 

Further the pupil speaks : 

£ ' Do yon attribute to him other qualities besides 
those you have mentioned ? tf 

The master says : 

1 He is height, absolute in the idea, not in space, for 
he is sublime beyond all existence in any spac& lie 
is the pure absolute good, longed for by every created 
being* He is the knowledge free from the defilement 
of forgetfulness and net-knowing. 11 

The pupil speaks : 

■ L Do yon attribute to him speech or not > “ 

The master says : 

'‘As lie knows* he no doubt also speaks.” 

The pupil asks : 

“If he speaks because he knows, what, then, is the 
difference between him and the humnny sages who 
have xpclksm of their knowing ? tr 

The master says : 

p '' ,gc J4, 44 Hie difference between them is time* for they have 

learned in time and spoken in time, after having been 
not-knowmg and not-speaking. By speech they have 
transferred their knowledge to others* Therefore their 
speaking and acquiring knowledge take place in time. 
And as divine matters have no connection with time. 
Uod is knewinr/t sptttking from eternity. It was he 
who spoke to Brahman, and to others of the first beings 
in different ways. On the. one he bestowed a hook; 
for the other lie opened a door, a means of communi- 
cating with him; a third one he inspired so that; he 
obtained by cogitation what God bestowed upon him.” 

The pupil asks : 

il Whence has ha this knowing?” 

The master answers : 


CHAPTER JJ. 


29 


** His knowing is the same from nil eternity, forever 
Lind ever. As he has never been net-knowing, lie is 
knowing of himself, having never acquired any know- 
ledge which he did not possess before. He speaks in 
the Veda which he Bent down upon Brahman : 

£i ‘ Praise and celebrate Mm who has spoi^n the Veda , 
and was before the Veda / ” 

The pupil asks : 

** How do you worship him to whom the perception 
of the senses cannot attain ? ” 

The master says : 

His name proves his existence, for where there is a 
report there must be something to which it refers, and 
where there is a name there must be something which 
is named. Ho is hidden to the senses and un perceiv- 
able by them. However, the soul perceives him, and 
thought comprehends his qualities. This meditation 
is identical with worshipping him exclusively, and by 
practising it in 1 interruptedly beatitude is obtained/* 

In this way the Hindus express themselves in this 
very famous book. 

The following passage is taken from the book f/Udj QuoioUry 
a part of the book Bhdraia, from the conversation be- hovkoibi. 
tween VQ.su do va and Arjuna : — 

“I am the universe, without a beginning by being 
born, or without an cud by dying. I do not aim by 
whatever I do at any recompense. I do not specially 
belong to one class of beings to the exclusion of others, 
as if I ware the friend of one and the enemy of others. 

1 have given to each one in my creation what is suffi- 
cient for him in all his functions. Therefore whoever 
knows me in this capacity, and tries to become similar 
to me by keeping desire apart from his action, his 
fetters will be loosened, and he will easily be saved and 
freed.” 

This passage reminds one of the definition of philo- 


ALBERUNFS INDIA. 


Un Miu 
tiufriOJip; of 
UlU UGtKHJ 
iinrl tka 
Jtgen L - 


QiKiEi'itiocL 
flHltlL !.l I 0 

Sjoi il-L 

&iyki;ktt# r 


Pilge i $ 


3 ° 

sophy as Uu striving to become its much as possible simi- 
lar to Gem 

Further, Va.su deva speaks lu the same book : — 

“It ls desire which causes most men to take refuge 
with God for their wants. But it you examine their 
ease closely, you will find that they are very far from 
having an accurate knowledge of him, for God is not 
apparent to every one, so that he might perceive him 
with his senses, Therefore they do not know him 
Some of them do not pass beyond what their senses 
perceive ; some pass beyond this, but stop at the know- 
ledge of the lam qf nature, without learning that above 
them there is one who did not give birth nor was born, 
the essence of whose being has not been comprehended 
by the knowledge of any one, while his knowledge 
com prehe n d s every thin g* i 1 

The Hindus differ among themselves as to the defini- 
tion of what is ad ion. Some who make God the source 
0 f action co 11 sid er h h n as the u 1 liv e rsal ca use; for a s 1 .} 1 e 
existence of the agents derives from him, lie is the 
cause of their action , and in consequence it. is his 
own action coming into existence through their inter- 
mediation. Others do not derive action from God, but 
from other sources, considering them as the particular 
causes which in the last instance — according to external 
observation — produce the action in question. 

In the book 5 thhkhyit the devotee speaks : fi Has there 
been a difference of opinion about action and the agent. 
or not ¥ " 

The sage speaks: c< Some people say that the soul is 
not alive and the matter not living ; that God, who is 
self-sufficing, is he who unites them and separates them 
from each, other; that therefore in reality he himself is 
the agent. Action, proceeds from him in such a way 
that he causes both the soli! and the matter to move, 
like as that which is living and powerful moves that 
which is dead and weak. 


CHAPTER //. 31 

u Others say that the union ol action- and the w/cnt Is 
e fleeted by nature, and that such is the usual process 
in everything that increases and decreases. 

lt Others say the agent is the soul, because m the 
Veda it is sail, * Every being comes from Punish a.' 
According to others, the agent is time, for the world Is 
tied to time as a sheep is tied to a strong cord, so that 
its motion depends upon whether the cord is drawn 
tight or slackened, ft till others say that action is 
nothing but a recompense for something which has 
been done before. 

L £ A 1 J tl ie.se opinions a re w r 0 1 ig. T 3 l e truth is, th a L 
action entirely l jo longs to matt or, for matter binds the 
soul, causes it to wander about 3u different shapes, 
and then sets it free. Therefore matter is the agent, 
all that belongs to matter helps it to accomplish 
action. But the soul is not an agent, because it is 
devoid of the different faculties/' 

This Is what educated people believe about God. 
They call him Uvara> i.v. self- sufficing, beneficent, who 
gives without receiving. They consider the unity of 
God as absolute, but that everything beside God which 
may appear as a unity is really a plurality of things. 
The existence of God they consider as a real existence, 
because everything that exists exists through him. It 
is not impossible to think that the existing beings are 
not and that he is, but it is impossible to think that he 
is not and that they are. 

If we now pass from the ideas of the educated people 
among the Hindus to those of the common people, wo 
must f j rst state that they present a great variety. Some 
of them are simply abominable, but similar errors also 
occur in other religions. Nay, oven in Islam we must de- 
cidedly disapprove, evy. of the anthropomorphic doctrines, 
the teachings of the Jabriyya sect, the prohibition of 
the discussion of religious topics, and such like. Every 
religious sentence destined for the people at large must 


piiitowpiii- 

L!l 1 1 IL IMl. V . ll- 

i£iU' in nim 14 

about 1 1 LLI 

tiiiti 1 eV: of 

Cod- 


32 


ALBERUNFS INDIA, 


be carefully warded, as the following example shows. 
Some Hindu scholar calls God a pointy meaning to say 
thereby that the qualities of bodies do not apply to him. 
Now some uneducated man reads this and imagines, 
(Jed is as small as a point, and ho does net find out 
what the word point in this sentence was really intended 
to express. He will not even stop with this offensive 
comparison, but will describe God as much larger, and 
will say, ' l lleis twelve fingers long and ten Ungers broad / 1 
Praise be to God, who is far above measure and number ! 
Further, if an uneducated man hears what we have 
mentioned, that God comprehends the universe so that 
nothing is concealed from him, he will at once imagine 
that, this comprehending is effected by means of eye- 
sight ; that eyesight is only possible by means of an eye, 
and that two eyes are better than only one ; and in con- 
sequence he will describe God as having a thousand eyes, 
meaning to describe his omniscience. 

Similar hideous fictions are sometimes met with 
among the Hindus, especially among those castes who 
are not allowed to occupy themselves with science, of 
whom we shall speak hereafter. 


< 33 ) 


CHAPTER HI, 

ON THE HINDU BELIEF AS TO CREATED THINGS. BOTH 
ff INTELLI&IBILIA ** AND r< SENSIBUiIA,” 

On tins subject the ancient Greeks held nearly the 
same view as the Hindus, at all events in those times 
before philosophy rose high among them under the care 
of the seven so-called pillars of wisdom, viz. Solon of 
Athens, Bias of Priena, Perbmder of Corinth, Thales of 
Miletus, Chilon of Lacedtomon, Pittacus of Lesbos, and 
Oleobulus of 1 undos, and their successors. Some of 
them thought that all things are one, and this one thing 
is according to some rft kav&dv£i,v f according to others 
f{ Svitapt? ; that e.g, man lias only this prerogative 
before a stone and the inanimate world, that he is by 
one degree nearer than they to the First Came, But 
this he would not be anything better than they. 

Others think that only the First Cav.se has real exist- 
ence, because; it alone is self-sufficing, whilst everything 
else absolutely requires it; that a thing which for its 
existence stands in need of something else has only a 
dream -life, no real life, and that reality is only- that one 
anil first being {the First Cause). 

This is also the theory of the Stiffs, i.e* the sages > 
for means in Greek 'wi&dovt, (a-o^la). Therefore a 
philosopher is called paildsSpd (fWix/ios| iff. loving 
wisdom. When in Islam persona adopted something 
like the doctrines of th es e pkiiosopha's t they also adopted 
their name ; but, some people did not understand the 
meaning of the word, and erroneously combined it with 
VOL. u " 0 


Notions oF 

I ■■ 1 i n :Cik:^ 

: i ri ■ i Kjiti HO f i 

pljHsrrt lift to 
tliu> Fir?* 
Cm* i? r 


PlUgO Hi. 


Origin of 
t.lifl word 
Mflft. 


34 


ALBERUNTS INDIA. 


the Arabic word xujfk, as if the Sufi ( = f/»*A Arot/jot) were 
Ule n lie ul w it li the so^ca 1 1 ud f Ah l-a xxnjjh art i on g t-1 1 e coi i i - 
pan ions of Muhammad Tn later times the word was 
corrupted by misspellings so that finally it was taken for 
a derivation front i.e. the wool of goats. A bu-alfath 
Aibusti made a laudable effort to avoid this mistake 
when he said, From olden times people have differed 
as to the meaning of the word sAff... and have thought 
it. a derivative from Mi/, i.e. wool I, for my part : 
understand by the word a youth who is fdft, i.e. [jure. 
This a&fl has become su/i. and iti this form the name 
of a class of thinkers, the Svji” 

J fuilher, tha same Greeks think that the existing 
world is only one thing ; that the First. Cause appears in 
it under various shapes ; that the power of the First 
Cause is inherent in the parts of the world under dif- 
ferent circumstances, which cause a certain difference of 
the things of the world notwithstanding their original 
unity. 

Others thought that he who turns with Ids whole 
being towards the First Cause, striving to become as 
much as possible similar to it y will become united with 
it after having passed the intermediate stages, and 
stripped of all appendages and impediments* Similar 
views are also held by the Suf 1, because of the similarity 
of the dogma. 

As to the souls and spirits, the Greeks think that 
they exist by themselves before they enter bodies; that 
they exist in certain numbers and groups, which stand 
in various relations to each other * knowing each other 
and not knowing ; that they ? whilst staying in bodies, 
earn by the actions of their free-will that lot which 
awaits them after their separation from the bodies, 
i.e. the faculty of ruling the world in various ways. 
Therefore they called them gods, built temples in their 
Galenas, names and offered them sacrifices; as C ale-mis says in 
Ills book called TrporpeTmKOS ets t«s rt^va? t Kxcel- 


CHAPTER III. 


35 


lent men have obtained the honour of being reckoned 
among the deified beings only for the noble spirit in 
which they cultivated the arts, not for their prowess in 
wrestling and discus-throwing. E,g. Asclepius and 
Dionysos t whether they were originally human beings 
in bygone times and afterwards deified, or were divine 
beings from the very beginning, deserved in any case 
the greatest of honours, because the one taught man- 
kind the science of medicine, the other the art of the 
cultivation of the vine / 1 

Galenas says in his commentary on the aphorisms of 
Hippocrates: “As regards the offerings to A sole pins, 
we have never heard that anybody offered him a goat, 
because the weaving of goat’s-hair is not easy, and 
much goat's- meat produces epilepsy, since the humours 
of the goats are bad* People only offer him a cock, 
as also Hippocrates has done. For this divine man 
acquired for mankind the art of medicine, which is 
much superior to that which Dionysos and Demeter 
have invented, i.e, the wine and the cereals whence 
bread is prepared. Therefore cereals arc called by the 
name of Demeter and the vine is called by the name 
of Dionysos." 

Plato says in his Tim mis; “The Seal whom the Plato, 
barbarians call goth, because of their not dying, are 
the whilst they call the god the Jtrd god , , 1 * 

Further ho says: “God spoke to the gods, s Ton are 
not of yourselves exempt from destruction. Only you 
will not perish by death. You have obtained from 
my will at the time when I created you, the firmest 
covenant/ ” 

Jn another passage of the same book he says : " God 
is in the single number ; there arc no gods In the plural 
number." 

These quotations prove that the Greeks call in 
general god everything that is glorious and noble, and 
the like usage exists among many nations. They go 


3* 


ALBBRUNJ'S INDIA. 


JutiuliuCs 

dratnmn- 

tSeus, 


OaleuLlb, 


OaJlQriincc 
of liuijijuii- 
nating Gad 
in Arabic, 
licijicw, 
iLtsd Syriac, 


fag* iS- 


even so far as to oo.ll gods the mountains, the seas, <&c* 
Secondly, they apply the term gtd in a special sense 
to the First Causa, to the angels* and to their souls. 
According to a third usage, Plato calls gods the SeMutU 
( = Mofom), But on this subject the terms of the 
interpreters are not perfectly clear \ in consequence 
of which we only know the name, but not what it 
means. Johannes Grammaticus says in his refutation 
of Pro cl ns ; “The Greeks gave the name of gods to 
the visible bodies in heaven, as many barbarians do. 
Afterwards, when they came to philosophise on Hie 
abstract ideas of the world of thought, they called these 
by the name of gods. 13 

Hence wo must necessarily infer that being deified 
means something like the state of angels, accord i rag 
to our notions. This Galenas says in clear words 
in the same book: “If it is true that Asclepius was 
a man in bygone times, and that then God deigned 
to make him one of the angels, everything else is idle 
talk.” 

In another passage of the same book 1st? says : " God 
spoke to Lycurgus, ( I am in doubt concerning you, 
whether to call you a man or an angel, but I. incline to 
the latter*’ “ 

There are, however, certain expressions which are 
offensive according to the notions of one religion, whilst 
they are admissible according to those- of another, which 
may pass in one language, whilst they are rejected by 
another. To this class belongs the word a-gatlu'osw, 
which has a bad sound in the ears of Muslims. If we 
consider the use of the word god m the Arabic language, 
we tint] that all the names by winch the pare truth, ix. 
Allah r has been named, may somehow or other be applied 
to other beings besides him, except the word Allah. 
which only applies to Cod, and which lias been called 
his greatest name < 

If we consider the use of the word in Hebrew and 


CHAPTER III. 


37 


Syriac, in which two languages the sacred hooks before 
the Koran were revealed, we find that in the Thora and 
the following books of prophets which are reckoned 
with the Thora as one whole, that word llabb corre- 
sponds to the word All&h in Arabic, in so far as it can- 
not in a genitive construction be applied to anybody 
besides God, and you cannot say the rath of the house, 
tin.:- rahb of the property (which in Arabic is allowed), 
And, secondly, we find that the word 'Ekmh in Hebrew 
corresponds in its usage there to the word liabb in 
Arabic (Ij\ that in Hebrew the word rfiw may apply 
to other beings but God, like the word C-y in Arabic). 
The following passages occur in those books ; — 

■■ The sons of Elohim came in unto the daughters of 
men '* (Gen, vi + 4)* before the deluge, and cohabited with 
them. 

Satan entered together with the sons of Elohim into 
their meeting ” (Job i. 6). 

In the Thora of Moses God speaks to him : I have 
made thee a god to Pharaoh M (Kxod. vii. 1). 

In the 82 d Psalm of the Psalter of David the fol- 
lowing occurs : “ Gorl stand eth in the congregation of 
the gods 7 * (Ps, Ixxxii. 1), i.e. of the angels. 

In the Thora the idols are called foreign gods. If 
the Thorn had not forbidden to worship any other being 
but God. if it. had not forbidden people to prostrate 
the in selves before the idols, nay, even to mention them 
and to think of them, one might infer from this expres- 
sion { foreign got Is) that the order of the Bible refers 
only to the abolition of foreign gods, which would mean 
gods that an not Hebrew ones (as if the Hebrews had 
adored national goth, in opposition to the gods of their 
neighbours). The nations round Palestine were idol 
worshippers like the heathen Greeks, and the Israelites 
always rebelled against God by worshipping the idol of 
Baal (lit Badd) arid the Idol of Aslit&rfifch* i.v. Venus. 

From all this it is evident that the Hebrews used to 


38 


A LB RR UN PS INDIA . 


apply the term h&ing god , grammatically a term like 
being Mug, to the angels, to the souls invested with 
divine power (y, p. 34) ■ by way of comparison* also, 
to the images which were made to represent the bodies 
ol 1 those beings: lastly, metaphorically, to kings and to 
other great men. 

Passing from the word God to those of father and 
son, we must state that Islam is not liberal in the use of 
them; for in Arabic the word son means nearly always 
as much as a child in the natural order of things, and 
from t ho ideas involved in parentage and birth can 
never be derived any expression meaning the Eternal 
1 jord of c reation . O th ev I an gu ages , 1 lowev er , t ake m 1 tel t 
more liberty in this respect ; so that if people address a 
man by father, it is nearly the same as it they addressed 
him by sir. As is well known, phrases of this kind 
have become so prevalent among the Christians, that 
anybody who does not always use the word % father and. 
son in addressing people would scarcely be considered 
as one of them. By the sou they understand most 
especially Jesus, but apply it also to others besides 
him. It is Jesus who orders his disciples to say in 
prayer, (< 0 our father which art- in heaven ” (St, 
M al -1 v i. 9) ; an d \ n to n t j i 1 1 g them of his app road dug 
death, he says that he is going to his father and to 
their father (St* John xx, 17). In moat of his speeches 
Ire explains the word the son as meaning him self 5 that 
he is the son of maun 

Besides the Christians, the Jews too use similar « x- 
PagG it*. presaions ■ for the 2d Book of Kings relates that God 
consoled David for the loss of his son, who had been 
borne to him by the wife of Uriah, and promised him 
another son from her, whom he would adopt as his 
own son (1 Chron. xxii. 9, 10), If the use of the 
Hebrew language admits that Salomo is by adoption a 
son of God, it is admissible that he who adopted was a 
father, viz, God, 


CHAPTER HI. 


39 


The Manich^eans stand hi a near relationship to the 
Christiana. Maoi expresses himself in a similar way in 
the book called Kan&*al%hy& (Thmiurus V ivijitaiimus) : 

The resplendent, hosts will be called young women and 
virgins, fathers and mothers, sons* brothers, and sisters, 
because such is the custom in the books of the prophets. 
In the country of joy there is neither male nor female, 
nor are there organs of generation. All are invested 
with living bodies. Since they have divine bodies, they 
do not differ from each other in weakness and force, in 
length and shortness, in figure and looks; they are like 
similar lamps, which arc lighted by the same lamp, and 
which are nourished by the same material. The cause 
of this kind of name- giving arises, in the last instance* 
from the rivalry of the two realms In mixing up with 
each other. When the low dark realm rose from the 
abyss of chaos, and was seen by the high resplendent, 
realm as consisting of pairs of male and female beings, 
the! at ter gav e si 1 1 ill a i 1 1 on t w a rd form s to i ts own chil- 
dren, who started to fight that other world, so that it 
placed in the fight one kind of beings opposite the 
same kind of the other world/' 

The educated among the Hindus abhor anthropo- 
morphisms of this kind, but the crowd and the mem- 
bers of the single sects use them most extensively. 
They go even beyond all we have hitherto mentioned, 
so as to speak of wife, son, daughter, of the rendering 
pregnant and other physical processes* all in connection 
with God. They are even so little pious, that, when 
speaking of these things, they do not even abstain from 
silly aiul unbecoming language. However, nobody 
minds these classes and their theories, though they be 
numerous. The main and most essential point of the 
Hindu world of thought is that which the Brahmans 
think and believe, for they are specially trained for pre- 
serving and maintaining their religion. And this it is 
which we shall explain, viz. the belief of the Brahmans. 


ttoLe on 
the SI am- 
ohnaauH. 


Of 

the cUn- 
cfttfril Hln« 
1 1 1 1 ■:» All 
fir&ated 
l>ej lifts firs 
ft UjUtj?* 


40 


A L BE It UN PS INDIA. 


Furuates* 


Fa^e vi. 


A vyakfa. 


Regarding the whole creation (to *h), they think that 
it is a unity, as has already been declared, because 
Yfisudeva speaks in the book called Gild ; +< To speak 
accurately, we must say that all things are divine; for 
Vishnu made himself the earth that the living beings 
should rest thereupon ; he made himself water to nourish 
them thereby ; he made himself fire and wind in order 
to make them grow ; and lie made himself the heart of 
every sin gle bei n g. I T e presen ted \ 1 1 em w i th recol 1 eo 
tioii and knowledge and the two opposite qualities, as 
is mentioned in the Veda.” 

11 o\? much does this resemble the expression of the 
author of the book of Apollonius, Ik. ChivMs llevum, as 
if tiie one had been taken from the old ter! He says: 
“Tit ere is in all men a divine power, by which all 
things, both material and immaterial, are apprehended.” 
Thus in Persian the immaterial Lord is called Khudhd, 
and in a derivative sense the word is also used to mean 
a man, Le> a human lord. 

L Those Hindus who prefer clear and accurate defi- 
nitions to vague allusions call the soul pUruska, which 
means vum t because it is the living element in the 
existing world. Life is the only attribute which they 
give to it. They describe it as alternately knowing 
and not knowing, as not knowing ^ (actually), 

and as knowing h* Bvvd[i€t (potentially), gaining know- 
ledge by acquisition. The not-kn owing of -pumsha ie 
the cause why action comes into existence, and its 
knowing is the cause why action ceases. 

IT, Next follows the general matter, Le* the abstract. 
vkrji which they call avi/afda, Lc. a shapeless thing. Th 
is dead, but has three powers potentially, not actually, 
which arc called sattm, wjns, and tamas. T have heard 
that Euddhodana (sic), in speaking to his adherents the 
Shamanians, calls them huldhd > rfharma, mri/fho. as it 
were intelligence, rdy/ion, aud ignorance (sic). The first 
power is rest and goodness, and hence come existing 


CHAPTER II L 


41 


and gro wing. The second is exertion and fatigue, and 
hence come firmness and duration. The third is languor 
and irresolution, and hence come ruin and perishing 
Therefore the first power is attributed to the angels, 
the second to men, the third to the animals. The ideas 
before after wards, and thereupon may be predicated of 
all these things only in the sense of a certain sequence 
and on account of the inadequacy of language, but not 
so as to indicate any ordinary notions of time, 

III. Matter proceeding from 8 vvajus into wpagis under 
the various shapes and with the three primary fort£R 
is called vyakia, Le. having shape, whilst the union of 
the abstract vXrj and of the shaped mailer is called 
prakp Mi* This term, however, is of no use to ns 5 we 
do not want to speak of an abdrad matter, the term 
matter alone being sufficient for ns, since the one does 
not exist without the other, 

IV. Next, comes nature , which they call ahaHk&ra. 
The word is derived from the ideas of overpowrin y, de- 
veloping, and sdf -assertion, because matter when as Fum- 
ing shape causes things to develop into new forms, and 
tins growing consists in the changing of a foreign ele- 
ment, and assimilating it to the growing one* Bence 
it is as if Nature were trying to overpower those- other 
or foreign elements in this process of changing thorn, 
and were subduing that which is changed, 

V'.-IX. As a matter of course, each compound pre- 
supposes simple elements from which it is compounded 
and into which it is resolved again* The universal 
existences in the world are the five elements, i.e. accord- 
ing to the Hindus : heaven, wind, liny water, and earth. 
They are called ■mahdhhfrta f iV\ having grrat natures. 
They do not think, as other people do, that the fire is 
a hot dry body near the bottom of the ether. They 
understand by fire the common fire on earth which 
comes from an inflammation of smoke* The Vdyu 
Parana says : “ 1 n the beginning were earth, water, wind, 


Vyakta and 
prikiiEL, 


AhafiMva, 


M it] 11U.1l i'u 1 ;n. 


Anrmtatlnn 
from y&p-n 
PuI'lTJLlL, 


42 


A LB BRUNTS INDIA . 


TW» 

mubaras, 

Piii?e 2i. 


and heaven. Brahman, on seeing sparks under the 
earth, brought them forward and divided them into 
three parts; the first, pdrtkim, Is the common lire, 
which requires wood and is. extinguished by water ; the 
second is dwya y i.e. the sun; the third, ridyui, i*e. the 
lightning* The snu attracts the water ; the lightning 
shines through the water. In the animals, also, there is 
fire in the midst of moist substances, which serve to 
nourish the lire and do not extinguish if f 1 

X -X I V. As these elements are compound* they pre- 
suppose simple ones which arc called pa ilea -md-kims, 
i.t ' h live mothers. They describe them as the functions 
of the senses. The simple element of heaven is sahda, 
i.e. that which is heard ; that of the wind is spar&a, 
i.e, that which is touched ; that of the fire is rH pa, i A c. 
that which is seen; that of the water is rasa, i.e, that 
which is tasted; and that of the earth is yundlm, 
i h at which is smell ed + W i th each of tl l ese mah AbJt t } ta 
elements (earth, water, &c.) they connect, firstly, one of 
tii e. paum-mtUdras elements, as we have here shown ; 
and, secondly, all those which have been attributed to 
the mahdhhMa elements previously mentioned. So 
the earth has all five qualities; the water has them 
minus the smelling ( — four qualities) ; the fire has them 
minm the st r l el I. i n g ar i d tas Ling ( i j: . th re c c | ual i t ies) ; t h e 
wind has them minus smelling* tasting, and seeing (ie + 
two qualities) ; heaven lias them m-i-mtu smelling* tast- 
ing, Feeing, and touching (i.e, one quality). 

I do not know.' what the Hindus mean by bringing 
sound. into relation with heaven. Perhaps they me a n 
something similar to what Homer, the poet of the 
ancient Greeks, said, u Thou invested with ike seven melo- 
dies speak and give answer la each other in a pleasant 
loner Thereby he meant the seven planets ; as another 
poet says. “ The spheres endowed with different melodies 
are seven, moving etmuxlly, praising the Gmodor, for it is 
he who holds them and embraces them unto the farthest 
end of the starless sphere.” 


CHAPTER HP 


43 


Porphyry says in his book on the opinion a of the 
most prominent philosophers about the nature of the 
sphere i The heavenly bodies moving about in forms 
and shapes and with wonderful melodies, which are 
fixed for ever, as Pythagoras and Diogenes have ex- 
plained, point to their Creator, who is without equal 
and without shape. People say that Diogenes had 
sunli subtle senses that he, and he alone t could hear the 
sound of the motion of the sphere,” 

All these expression s are rather hints than clear 
speech, but admitting of a correct interpretation on a 
scientific basis. Some successor of those philosophers, 
one- of those who did not grasp the full truth, says: 

“Sight is watery, hearing airy, smelling fiery, tasting 
earthy, and touching is what the soul bestows upon 
everybody by uniting itself with it.” I suppose this 
philosopher connects the sight with the water because 
he had heard of the moist substances of the eye and of 
their different classes (Jae-tma): lie refers the smelling 
to the fire on account of frankincense and smoke- ; the 
fasting to the earth because of his nourishment which 
the earth yields him. As, then, the four elements are 
finished, he is compelled for the fifth sense, the touch- 
ing, to have recourse to the soul. 

The result of , all these elements which we have enu- 
merated, i.e. a compound of all of them, is the animal. 

The Hindus consider the plants as a species of animal 
as Plato also thinks that the plants have a sense, 
because they have the faculty of distinguishing between 
that which suits them and that which is detrimental to 
them. The animal is an animal as distinguished from 
a stone by virtue of its possession of the senses, 

XV.- XIX, The senses are five, called indriy&td, the ii^rjy^i. 
hearing by the ear, the seeing by the eye, the smelling 
by the nose, the tasting by the tongue, and the touching 
by the skin, 

XX, Next follows the will, which directs the senses Ktoua* 


44 


ALBERUNl’S INDIA. 


KurinOiidri- 

S3. 


Eccapi "n I a.- 

t-EiJQ Of the 

twQjjty-is to 
dome i its, 


in the exercise of their various functions, and which 
dwells in the heart. Therefore they call it id anas. 

XXI .—XXV. The animal nature is rendered perfect 
by five n&ccBsary fimciiom, which they call karmendri- 
ydrd, i.e* the senses of action, The former senses bring 
about learning and knowledge, the latter action arid 
work. We shall call them the necti&tcmft. They are ; 
I. To produce a sound for any of the different wants 
and wishes a man may have j 2. To throw the hands 
with force, in order to draw towards or to put away ; 
3. To walk with the feet, in order to seek something 
or to fly from it; 4, 5, The ejection of the superfluous 
elements of nourishment by means of the two openings 
created for the purpose. 

The whole of these elements are twenty- five, via. : — 

1. The general soul. 

2. The abstract uAip 

j. The shaped matter. 

4. The overpowering nature, 

5-9, The simple mothers. 

10-14. The primary elements, 

I 5 i 9. The senses of apperception, 

20. The directing will., 

21-25. The instrumental newsmriu. 

The totality of these elements is cal Jed tditva, and all 
knowledge is restricted to them. Therefore Yyftsa the 
son of Parlsara speaks : Li Learn twenty-five by dis- 
tinctions, definitions, and divisions, as you learn a 
logical syllogism, and something which is a certainty, 
not merely studying with the tongue. Afterwards 
adhere to whatever religion you like; your end will 
be salvation*” 


f 45 ) 


CHAPTER IV. 

mum WHAT CAUSE ACTION ORIGINATES, AND HOW THE 
SOUL IS CONNECTED WITH MATTER, 

VOLUNTARY actions cannot originate ill the body of any 
animal, unless the body be Jiving and exist in close con- 
tact with that which is living of Itself* ie, the soul* 
The Hindus maintain that the soul is £v uy* i£f 6tj not 
*r Silvia, ignorant of its own essential nature and of 
its material substratum, longing to apprehend what it 
does not know, and believing that it cannot exist unless 
by matter. As, therefore, it longs for the good which 
is duration, arid wishes to learn that which is hidden 
from it, it starts oiF in order to be united with matter. 
However, substances which are dense and such as are 
tenuous, if they have these qualities in the very highest 
degree* can mix together only by means of interme- 
diary elements which stand in a certain relation to 
each of tho two. 'i'll us the air is the medium be- 
tween lire and water, which are opposed to each other by 
these two qualities, for the air is related to the fire in 
tenuity and to the water in density, and by either of 
those qualities it renders the one capable of mixing 
wit! i the ot b e r< N o w , tl ] ere i s n o greate r antithe si s th an 
that between body and noi-hody. Therefore the soul, 
being what it is, cannot obtain the fulfilment of its 
wish but by similar media, spirits which derive their 
existence from the maims simplices in the worlds called 
Uhurlvka, Bhuvwrldka^ and Smrldki i. The Hindus call 
them tenuous bodies over which the soul rises like the 


T1lu auiill 
longing to 
ta uziitud 
Tilth tho 

VjfllLy, Hi. i 
jii it:- 1 fcy 
i tLtijLTnciI j- 
:iry i-it: 1 . 


46 


AL&BRUNPS INDIA. 


SJ. 


Five wlnrla 

tin: fujlG- 
l u>m of the 
lnxly. 


Tliti differ- 
ence i A £h(i 
smuIb. du. 
pomii tig 
«[hjn the 
difference^ 
the biadicn 
luhL their 
i]jtcractio!3. 


sun over tbe earth, in order to distinguish them from 
the cfeise bodies which derive their existence from the 
common five elements. The soul, in consequence of 
this union with the media, uses them as its vehicles. 
Thus the image of the sun, though he is only one, is re- 
presented in many mirrors which are placed opposite to 
him, as also in the water of vessels placed opposite. 
The sun is seen alike in each mirror and each vessel, 
and in each of them his warming and light-giving died, 
is perceived. 

When, now, the various bodies, being from their 
nature compounds of different things, come into exist- 
ence, being composed of male elements, via. bones, 
veins, and sperm a, and of female elements, viz, flesh, 
blood j and hair, and being thus fully prepared to receive 
life, then those spirits unite themselves with them, and 
the bodies arc to the spirits what castles or fortresses 
are to the various affairs of princes. In a farther stage 
of development live winds enter the bodies. By the 
first and second of them the inhaling and exhaling are 
effected, by the third the mixture of the victuals in the 
stomach, by the fourth the locomotion of the body from 
one place to the other, by the fifth the transferring of 
the apperception of the senses from one side of the body 
to the other. 

The spirits here mentioned do not, according to the 
notions of the Hindus, differ from each other in sub- 
stance , but have a precisely i d ent iea 1 n at ore . However, 
their in dividual characters and manners differ in the 
samo measure as the bodies with which they are united 
differ, on account of the three forces which are in them 
striving with each other for supremacy, and on account 
of their harmony being disturbed by the passions of 
envy and wrath. 

Such, then, is the supreme highest cause of the soul's 
starting off into action. 

On the other hand, the lowest'^ cause, as proceeding 


CHAPTER IV, 


47 


from matter, is this : that matter for its part seeks for onmaitei-. 
perfection, and always prefers that which is, better to untcmwith 
that which is Jess good, via. proceeding from Wa/^- thc ^' lh 
into In consequence of the vainglory and 

ambition which are its pith and marrow, matter pro- 
duces and shows all kinds of possibilities which it 
contains to its pupil, the soul, and carries it round 
through all classes of vegetable and animal beings. 

Hindus compare the soul to a dancing-girl who is clever lUiigiraLionu 

in her art and knows wed what effect each motion and OirliilVkiud 

pose of hers has. She is in the presence of a sybarite ufllJJI " M ' 

most eager of enjoying what she has learned. Now she 

begins to produce the various kinds of her art one after 

the other under the admiring gaze of the host^ until her 

programme is finished and the eagerness of the spectator 

has been satisfied. Then she stops suddenly, since she 

could not produce anything but a repetition ; and as a 

repetition is not wished for, he dismisses her, and action 

ceases. The dose of this kind of relation is illustrated 

by the following simile : A caravan has been attacked 

in the desert by robbers, and the members of it have 

lied in all directions except a blind man and a lame 

man, who remain on the spot in helplessness, despairing 

of their escape. After they meet and recognise each. 

other, the lame speaks to the blind : u I cannot move, 

but I can lead the way, whilst the opposite is the case 

with you. Therefore put me on your shoulder and 

carry me, that I may show you the way and that we 

may escape together from this calamity." This the 

blind man did. They obtained their purpose by helping 

each other, and they left, each other on coming out of 

the desert, 

F ii rt her , th e Hi n d us speak in different w ay s of the av l a 
agent ^ as we have already mentioned* So the Vishnu 
Purdim says : Matter is the origin of the world. Its iJUHiti U1L ( ' 
action in the world rises from an innate disposition, as 
a tree sows its own seed by an innate disposition, not 


48 


A LEEK UNI'S INDIA. 


Pagu 24. 


1 >tL j 1 1 JLlfcCsr 

HB the uausu 
uf acrtoti 

U> 

t>l li 

khyft _Khoal 

uf | i-l lEI ■ i^u- 

phere. 


intentionally, and the wind cools the water though it 
only intends blowing. Voluntary action is only due to 
Vishnu.” By tlie latter expression the author means 
the living being who is above matter (God). Through 
him matter becomes an agmt toiling for him as a friend 
toils for a friend without wanting anything for himself. 

On this theory Maui. lias built the following sentence : 
“The Apostles ashed Jesus about the life of inanimate 
nature* whereupon he said, ' If that which is inanimate 
ts separated from the living element which- is com- 
mingled with it, and appears alone by itself, it is again 
inanimate and is not capable of living, whilst the living 
element which has left it, retaining its vital energy 
unimpaired, never dies/ ” 

The book of S&iiikhya deriv es action from matter, for 
the difference of forms under which matter appears 
depends upon the ihriepHtti&Ty forces^ and upon whether 
one or two of them gain the supremacy over the 
remainder. These forces are the angdic, the iitatmu. 
and the animal. The three forces belong only to matter, 
not. to the soul. The task of the soul is to learn the 
actions of matter like a spectator, resembling a traveller 
who sits down in a village to repose. Each villager is 
busy with his own particular work, but lie looks at 
them and considers their doings, disliking some, liking 
othe r s F ai 1 d ta k in g an exarn pi o f ro m th 0 m . T n tl l is w ay 
he is busy without having himself any share in the 
business going on, and without being the cause which 
has brought it about. 

The book of Sfttiikhya brings action into relation with 
the soul, though the soul lias nothing to do with action , 
only in so far as it resembles a man who happens to 
get into the company of people whom he does not 
know. They are robbers returning from a village 
which they have sacked and destroyed, and he has 
scarcely marched with them a short distance, when 
they am overtaken by the avengers. The whole party 


CHAPTER IV, 


49 


are taken prisoners, and together with them the inno- 
cent man is dragged off ; and being treated precisely 
as they are, he receives the tame punishment, without 
having taken part in their action. 

People say the soul resembles the rain-water which 
comes down from heaven, always the same and of the 
same nature. However, if it is gathered in vessels 
placed for the purpose, vessels of different materials, of 
gold, silver, glass, earthenware, clay, or bitter-salt earth, 
it begins to cl i ffer i n appearance, taste, and smel 1 . Thus 
the son! does not influence matter in any way, except 
in this, that it gives matter life by being in close con- 
tact with it. When, then, matter begins to act, the 
result is different, in conformity with the one of the 
time primctr/f force* which happens to preponderate, 
and conformably to the mutual assistance which the 
other two latent forces afford to the former. This 
assistance may he given in various ways, as the fresh 
oil, the dry wick, and the smoldng fire help each other 
to produce light. The soul is in matter like the rider 
on a carriage, being attended by the senses, who drive 
the carriage according to the rider’s intentions. But 
the soul for its part is guided by the intelligence with 
which it is inspired by God. This mteliigm w they 
describe as that by which the reality of things is appre- 
hended, which shows the way to the knowledge of God, 
and to such actions as are liked and praised by every- 
body. 


VOL. i. 


D 


( 5 ° ) 


JSflsiiitflitg, 
dtiVeLup- 
Liimii, and 

u3tiniatij 
]'edult (.■!’ 
inatflllipay. 
cbrwis. 


CHAPTER V, 

ON - THE STATE OK THE SOULS, ANU THETit MIG RATIONS 
THROUGH THE WORLD IN THE METEMPSYCHOSIS. 

As the word of cmffitssioii, “ * there is no god but God, 
Muhammad is hi 3 prophet / 11 is the shibboleth of Islam, 
the Trinity that of Christianity* and the institute of 
the Sabbath that of Judaism, so metempsychosis is 
the shibboleth of the Hindu religion* Therefore he 
who does not believe in it dors not belong to them, 
and is not reckoned as one of them. For they hold the 
following belief 

The soul, as long as it lias not risen to the highest 
absolute intelligence, docs not comprehend the totality 
of object b at once, or, as It were, in no times. Therefore 
it must explore all particular beings and examine all the 
possibilities of existence ; and as their number is, though 
not unlimited, still an enormous one, the soul wants an 
enormous space of time i.11 order to finish the contem- 
plation of such a multiplicity of objects. The soul 
acquires knowledge only by the contemplation of the 
individuals and the species, and of their peculiar actions 
and conditions. It gains experience from each object, 
and gathers thereby new knowledge. 

However, these actions differ in the same measure as 
the three primary forces differ. Resides, the world is 
not left without some direction, being led, as it were, by 
a bridle and directed towards a definite scope. There- 
fore the imperishable souls wander about in perishable 
bodies conformably to the difference of their actions, as 


CHAPTER V. 


S’ 

they prove to bo good or bad. The object of the migra- 
tion through the world of reward (ii\ heaven) is to 
direct the attention of the soul to the good, that it should 
become desirous of acquiring as much of it as possible. 
The object of its migration through the world of pun 
iskmenl (it\ hell) is to direct its attention to the had 
and abominable!, that it should strive to keep as far as 
possible aloof from it. 

The migration begins from law stages, and rises to 
1 uglier and better ones, not the contrary, as we state 
on purpose, since the one is a priori as possible as the 
other. The difference of these lower and higher stages 
depends upon the difference of the actions, and this 
again results from the- quantitative and qualitative 
diversity of the temperaments and the various degrees 
of combinations in which they appear. 

This migration lasts until the object aimed at has 
been completely attained both for the soul and matter ; 
the lower aim being the disappearance o : ' the shape of 
matter, except any such new formation as may appear 
desirable : the higher aim being the ceasing of the desire 
of the soul to I earn what it did not know before, the 
insight of the soul into the nobility of its own being 
and its independent existence, its knowing that it can 
dispense with matter after it has become acquainted 
with the mean nature of matter and the instability of 
its shapes, with all that which matter offers to the 
senses, and with the truth of the tales about its 
delights, Then the soul turns away from matter ; the 
connecting links are broken, the union is dissolved. 
Separation and dissolution take place, and the soul 
returns to its home, carrying with itself as much of the 
bliss of knowledge as sesame develops grains and 
blossom 5j afterwards never separating from its oil. 
The intelligent being, intelligence and its object, arc 
united and become one. 

It is now our duty to produce from their literature 


ALBER UNI’S INDIA 


QiAO-teLtlUIlP 
lsv>m tiiS 
bOk>k («$!V'?. 




S3 

some clear testimonies as to this subject and cognate 
theories of other nations. 

V ftsudeya speaks to Arjuna instigating him to the 
battle, whilst they stand between the two lines : "If you 
believe in predestination* yon must know that neither 
they nor we are mortal, and do not go away without a 
return, for the souls are immortal and un changeable. 
They migrate through the bodies, while man changes 
from childhood into youth } into manhood and infirm 
age, the end of which Is the death of the body. There- 
after the soul proceeds on its return / 7 

Further ho says: “How can a man think of death 
and being killed who knows that the soul is eternal, 
not having been horn and not perishing ; that the son I 
is something stable and constant ; that no sword can 
cut it, no fire burn It, no water extinguish it, and no 
w ind with e r it ? Th e son 1 m i grates fro m its body f af ter i t 
has become old, into another, a different one, as the body, 
when its dress has become old, is clad in another. What 
then is your sorrow about a soul which does not perish ? 
IE it were perishable, it would be more becoming that 
you should not sorrow about a thing which may be dis- 
pensed with, which does not exist, and does not return 
into existence. But. if you look more to your body 
than to your soul, and are in anxiety about its perish- 
ing, you must know that all that which is born dies, 
and that all that which dies ret unis into another exist- 
ence. However, both life and death are not your con- 
cern. They are in tho hands of God, from whom all 
things come and to whom they return/’ 

in the further course of conversation Arjuna speaks 
to Vnsudeva: llow did you dare thus to fight Brahman, 
Brahman who was before the world was and before- 
man was, whilst you are living among us as a being, 
whose birth and age are known ? ” 

Thereupon Vusndeva answered: " Eternity (pre-exist- 
01 ice) is common to both of us and to him. How often 


CHAPTER V. 


53 


have we lived together, when I knew the times of our life 
and death, whilst they were concealed from you ! When 
I desire to appear in order to do some good, I array 
myself in a body, since one cannot "be with man except 
in a human shape.” 

People toll a tale of a king, whose name I have 
forgotten, who ordered his people after his death to 
bury Ins body on a spot where never before had a dead 
person been buried. IS ow they sought for such a spot, 
but could not find it ; finally, on finding a rock pro- 
ject] itg out of the ocean, they thought they had found 
what they wanted. But the)] Vasudeva spoke unto 
them, “This king lias been burned on this identical 
rock already many times. But now do as you like ; for 
the king only wanted to give you a lesson, and this 
aim of his has now been attained/' 

Vasudeva says: “Ho who hopes for salvation and 
strives to free him sell' from the world, but whose heart 
is not obedient to his wish, will be rewarded for his 
action in the worlds of those who receive a good re- 
ward ; but he does not attain his last object on account 
of his deficiency, therefore he will return to this world, 
and will he found worthy of entering a now shape of a 
kind of beings whoso special occupation is devotion. 
Divine inspiration helps him to raise himself in this 
new shape by degrees to that which he already wished 
for in. the first shape. His heart begins to comply with 
his wish ; he is more and more purified in the different 
shapes, until lie at last obtains salvation in an uninter- 
rupted series of new births/ 1 

further, Vasudeva says : “If the soul is free from 
matter, ft is knowing ; but as long as it is clad in matter, 
the sonl is not- knowing, on account of the turbid nature 
of matter. It thinks that it is an agent, and that the 
actions of the world are prepared for its sake. There- 
fore it clings, to them, and it is stamped with the im- 
pressions of the senses. When, then, the son 1 leaves 


s\ 


ALBBEUNPS INDIA. 


the body, the truces of the impressions of the souses 
remain in it, and are not completely eradicated, as it 
longs for the world of sense and returns towards it* 
And since it in these stages undergoes changes entirely 
opposed to each other, It is thereby subject to the 
influences of th e three ’primary farces* W hat, therefore, 
can the soul do, its wing being cut, if it is not suffi- 
ciently trained and prepared ? '* 

Vftsndeva says: “The best of men is the perfectly 
Pjkm 27 wise one, for he loves God and God loves him. How 
many times has he died and been born again ! During 
Ids whole life he perse veringly seeks for perfection lill 
he obtains it." 

In the Vishnu-DMrma, Mirkand^ya, speaking of the 

spiritual beings, says: 1 M3 rah man, Kurttikeya, son of 

M aliude va, Lakshini, who produced the Auirita, Daksha, 
who was beaten by Mahadcva, Umadevi, the wife of 
MakMeva, each of them has been in the middle of this 
bdjtiL, and they have been the same already many 
times." 

VarftSiamiliira speaks of the influences of the comets, 
and of the calamities which befall men when they 
appeal „ These calamities compel them to emigrate 
from their homes, lean from exhaustion, moaning over 
their mishap, leading their children by the hand along 
the road, and speaking to each other in low tones, 
° We are punished for the sins of our kings ; " where- 
upon others answer, “ Not so* This is the retribution 
for what we have done in the former 11 fe, before we 
entered these bodies." 

Mziui. When Muni was banished from flru n shah r\ he went 

to India, learned metempsychosis from the Hindus, and 
transferred it into his own system. Fie says in the Booh 
of Mysteries ; “Since the Apostles knew that the souls 
are immortal, and that in their migrations they array 
themselves in every form, that they are shaped in every 
animal, and are east in the mould of every figure, they 


CHAPTER V. 


55 

asked Messiah what would be the end of those souls which 
did not receive the truth nor learn the origin oi : their 
existence* Whereupon ho said, £ Any weak soul which 
has not received all that belongs to her of truth perishes 
without any rest or bliss/ ** By perishing MUni means 
her being punished, not her total disappearance, Tor 
in another place he says : The partisans of Bardesaues 
tliink that the living soul rises and is purified in the 
carcase, not knowing that the latter is tlie enemy of 
the soul, that the carcase prevents the soul from rising, 
that it is a prison, and a painful punishment to the 
soul. If this human figure were a real existence, its 
creator would not let it wear out and sulfur injury ^ and 
would not have compelled it to reproduce itself by the 
sperm a in the uterus/’ 

The following passage is taken from the book of FaMijai 
Fatah jail : — " The soul, being on all sides tied to 
ignorance, winch is the cause of its being fettered, 
is like rice in its cover. As long as it is there, 
it is capable of growing and ripening in the tran- 
sition stages between being born and giving birth 
Itself. But If the cover is taken off the rice, it ceases 
to develop in this way, and becomes stationary. 

The retribution of the soul depends on the various 
kinds of creatures through which it wanders, upon 
the extent of life, whether it be long or short, and 
upon the particular kind of its happiness, be It scanty 
or ample/* 

The pupil asks : “ What is the condition of the spirit 
when it has a claim to a recompense or has committed 
a crime, and is then entangled in a kind of new birth 
either in order to receive bliss or to be punished ? ’* 

The master says : <+ It migrates according to what 
it has previously done, fluctuating between happiness 
and misfortune, and alternately experiencing pain or 
pleasure/’ 

"Hie pupil asks : !L Tf a man commits something which 


f n p 2 j j UlrUo 
and jppxjltit 


5 *> ALBERUNFS INDIA. 

necessitates a retribution for him In a different shape 
from that in which he lias committed the tiling, and if 
between both stages there is a great interval of time 
and the matter is forgotten, what then ? ” 

The master answers: £i It is the nature of action to 
adhere to the spirit, for action is its product, whilst 
the body is only an instrument for it. forgetting does 
not apply to spiritual matters, for they lie outside of 
timoj with the nature of which the notions of long and 
short duration are necessarily connected. Action, by 
adhering to the spirit, frames its nature and character 
into a condition similar to that one into which the soul 
will ent er on its nest m igrati on . Th e sot r 1 in its ] mr I try 
knows this* thinks of it, and does not forget it : but the 
light of the soul is covered by the turbid nature of the 
body as long as it Is connected with the body. Then 
the soul is like a man who remembers a thing which he 
on oo knew, but then forgot in consequence of insanity 
or an illness or some intoxication which overpowered his 
mind. Do yon not observe that little children are in 
high spirits when people wish them a long life, and 
are sorry when people imprecate upon them a speedy 
death ? And what would the one thing or the other 
signify to them, if they had not tasted the sweetness of 
life and experienced the bitterness of death in former 
generations through which they had been migrating to 
undergo the duo course of retribution ? ,J 

The ancient Greeks agreed with the Hindus in this 
belief. Socrates says in the book Fhacdp r “We are 
reminded in the tales of the ancients that the souls 
go from here to Hades, and then come from Hades 
to here; that the living origin ate a from the dead, and 
that altogether things originate from their contraries. 
Therefore those who have died are among the living. 
Our souls lead an existence of their own in Hades. 
The sou! of each man is glad or sorry at something, and 
contemplates this thing. This impressionable nature 


CHAPTER V. 


57 


ties the sou 1 to the body, nails it down in the body, 
and. gives it, as if. were, a bodily figure. The soul 
which is not- pure cannot go to Hades. It quits the 
body still filled with its nature, and then migrates 
hastily into another body, in which it is, as it were, 
deposited and made fast. Therefore, it has no share in 
the living of the company of the unique, pure, divine 
essence* 1 11 

Further he says : £[ If the soul is an independent 
being, our learning is nothing but remembering that 
which we had learned previously, because our souls 
were in some place before they appeared in this human 
figure* When people see a tiling to the use of which 
they were accustom ed in childhood, they are under the 
influence of this impressionability, and a cymbal, For 
instance, reminds them of the buy who used to beat it, 
whom they, however, had forgotten. Forgetting is the 
vanishing of knowledge, and knowing is the souks 
remembrance of that which it. had learned before it 
entered the body/ 1 

Prod ns says: '* [Remembering and forgetting are 
peculiar to the soul endowed with reason. It is 
evident that the soul has always existed. Tie] tee it 
follows that it has always been both knowing and for- 
getting, knowing when it is separated from the body, 
forgetting when it is in connection with the body. For, 
being separated from the body, it belongs to the realm 
of the spirit, and therefore it is knowing; but being 
connected with the body, it descends from the realm of 
the spirit, and is exposed to forgetting because of some 
forcible inlfuence prevailing over it. !j 

The same doctrine is professed by those* Riifi who 
teach that this world is a sleeping soul and yonder 
world a soul awake, and who at the same time admit 
that Cod is immanent in certain places- — ejj. in heaven 
— in the seat and the throne of God (mentioned in the 
Koran). But then there are others who admit that 


P;i|L f e vQ, 


mn 

iWtrlne, 


ALBRRL7WPS INDIA. 


58. 

God is immanent. in the whole world, in animals, trees, 
and the inanimate world, which they call 1 1 is universal 
appearance. To those who hold this view, the entering 
of Hi e souls into various beings in the course of metem- 
psychosis is of no consequence. 


( 59 ) 


CHAPTER VI. 

ON TTIE DIFFERENT WORLDS, AND ON THE PLACES 
OF RETRIBUTION IN PARADISE AND HELL* 

Tije Hindus call the world loka. Its primary division 
consists of the tipper, the low, and the middle. The 
upper one is called $yartoka 3 i.& paradise ; the low, 
nd(fatoka f i>e* the world of the serpents, which is hell ; 
besides they call it naraloka, and sometimes also p&fctia. 
i m G t the lowest world. The middle world, that one in 
which we live, is called madhyalolm and memo shy tdo]m t 
•Le. the world of men. In the latter, man has to earn, in 
ill© upper to receive b i s re w ard ; in the lo w , to root i v 0 
punishment. A man who deserves to come to star! oka 
or udyaloka. receives there the full recompense of his 
deeds during a certain length of time corresponding to 
the. duration of his deeds, but in either of there there is 
only the soul, the so id free from the bod}'. 

For those who do not deserve to rise to heaven and to 
sink as low as hell there is another world Called iiryag- 
loka h the irrational world of plants and animals, through 
the individuals of which the soul has to wander in 
the metempsychosis until it reaches the human being, 
rising by degrees from the lowest kinds of the vegetable 
world to the highest classes of the sensitive world. The 
stay of the soul in this world has one of the following 
causes: either the award which is due to the soul is not 
sufficient to raise it into heaven or to sink it into hell, 
or the soul is in its wanderings on the way back from 
hell 5 for they believe that a soul returning to the human 


The 1 lir W 

ikhtas. 


6o 


ALBERUNPS INDIA t 


Quotatiiiii 
b um t-iic 
Fjj.fi n. ■( - 


-PAg$ Ju. 


world from heaven at once adopts a human body, 
whilst that one which returns there from hell has first 
to w and er about in pi ants and animals before it read i ea 
the degree of living in a human body. 

The Hindus speak in their traditions of a large num- 
ber of hells, of their qualities and their names, and tor 
each kind of sin they have a special hoik The number 
of hells is 8S,ooo according to the Vishnu- Fur dst?a. 
We shall quote what this book says on the subject — 

“The man who makes a false claim and who bears 
false witness, he who helps these two and he who 
ridicules people, come into the IwAtrava helL 

L< He who sheds innocent blood, who robs others of 
their rights and plunders them, and who kills cows, 
comes into Eodha. Those also who strangle people 
come here- 

“Whoso kills a Brahman, and lie who steals gold, 
and their companions, the princes who do not look after 
their subjects, he who commits adultery with the family 
of his teacher, or who lie. 5 down with his mother-in-law, 
come into Taptakimthka. 

“ Whoso connives at the shame of his wife for greedi- 
ness, commits adultery with his sister or the wife of his 
son, sells his child, is stingy towards himself with his 
prope i i .y in order to a v e it, com < in to M ■ t h mica! a . 

“ Whoso is disrespectful to his teacher and is not 
pleased with him, despises men, commits incest with 
animals, contemns the Veda and Fur dp as, or tries to 
make a gain by means of thorn in the markets, comes 
into Havaktt 

“ A man who steals and commits tricks, who opposes 
the straight line of conduct of men, who hates Ids 
father, who does not like God and men, who does not 
honour the gems which Clod has made glorious, and 
who considers them to be like other stones, comes into 
Kriw/Ua. 

“Whoso does not honour the rights of parents and 


CHAPTER VL 


6 r 


grandparents, whoso does not do Ms duty towards the 
angels, tho maker of arrows and spear-points, come to 
Ldldbhaksha. 

iJ The maker of swords and knives comes to ViSasma, 

“He who conceals Iris property, being greedy for the 
presents of the rulers, and the Brahman who sells meat 
or oil or butter or sauce or wine, come to Adhovud-ka, 

a lie who rears cocks and oats, small cattle, pigs, and 
birds, comes to Ritdhinhtdha. 

ff Public performers and singers in the markets, those, 
who dig wells for drawing water, a man who cohabits 
with his wife on holy days, who throws fire into the 
houses of men, who betrays bis companion and then 
receives him, being greedy for his property, come to 
Rudhira. 

“ He who takes the honey out of tho beehive comes 
to Vaitamub 

“Whoso takes away by force the property and 
women of others in the intoxication of youth comes 
to KHshna. 

u Whoso cuts down the trees comes to Asipairavtma* 

<f The hunter, aud the maker of snares and traps, 
come to VahnijifXUa* 

“ llo who neglects the customs and rules, and he who 
violates the laws — and he is the worst of all — come to 
SandmhActkti™ 

We have given this enumeration only in order to 
show wit at kinds of deeds the Hindus abhor as sins. 

Some Hindus believe that the middle world, that one According 
for earning, is the human world, and that a man wan- ih a 

ders about in it, because he has received a reward which Si^ugh 11 
does not lead him into heaven, hut at the same time SdnSif 1 * 
saves him from hell They consider heaven as a higher 
stage, where a man lives in a state of bliss which must Lfllu 
be of a certain duration on account of the good deeds 
lie has done, On the contrary, they consider the wan- 
dering about In plants and animals as a lower stage, 


6^ 


ALBERUNTS INDIA. 


Mc/ml ju in- 
eip]^H i.f 

C bo al®. 


ci-itSel^ 

niebKiiipey. 

chtiJsSK, 


fiflii 
parallel , 


where a nmti dwells for punishment for a certain length 
of time, which is thought to correspond to the wretched 
deeds he has done. People who hold this view do not 
know o£ another hell, but this kind of degradation 
below the degree of living as a human being. 

All these degrees of retribution are necessary for this 
reason, that the seeking for salvation from the fetters 
of matter frequently does not proceed on the straight 
line which leads to absolute knowledge, but on lines 
chosen by guessing or chosen because others had chosen 
them. Xot one action of man shall be lost, not even 
the last of all ; it shall be brought to his account after 
his good and bad actions have been balanced against 
each other. The retribution, however, is not according 
to the deed, but according to the intention which a man 
had in doing it \ and a man will receive his reward 
either in the form in which he lives on earth, or in that 
form into which Ids soul will migrate, or in a kind of 
intermediary state after lie has left his shape and has 
not yet entered a new one. 

Here now the Hindus quit the path of philosophical 
speculation and turn aside to traditional fables as re- 
gards the two places where reward or punishment is. 
given, t\.y rhat man exists there as an incorporeal being, 
and that after having received the reward of his actions 
lie again returns to a bodily appearance and human 
shape, in order to be prepared for his further destiny. 
Therefore the author of the book Sdm'kM/a does not 
consider the reward of paradise a special gain, because it 
has an end and is not eternal, and because this kind of 
life resembles the life of this our world ; for it is not 
free from ambition and envy, having in itself various 
degrees and classes of existences whilst cupidity and 
desire do not. cease save where there is perfect equality. 

The Sufi, too, do not consider the stay in paradise a 
special gain for another reason, because there the soul 
delights in other things but the Truth, ie. God, and its 


CHAPTER VP 63 

thoughts are diverted from the Absolute Good by tilings 
which are not the Absolute Good, 

We have already said that, according to the belief of 
the Hindus, the soul exists in these two places without 
a body. But this is only the view of the educated 
among them, who understand by the soul an indepen- 
dent being. However, the lower classes, and those who 
cannot imagine the existence of the sou] without a 
body, bold about this subject very different views. One 
is this, that the cause of the agony of death is the soul's 
waiting for a shape which is to be prepared. It does 
not quit the body before (here has originated a cognate 
being of similar functions, one of those which nature 
prepares either as an embryo in a mother’s womb or as 
a seed in the bosom of the earth. Then the soul quits 
the body in which it has been staying. 

Others hold the more traditional view that the soul 
does not wait for such a thing, that it quits its shape 
on account of its weakness whilst another body has 
been prepared for It out of the elements. This body 
is called tdveah ik™? i.e. that which tjrou i & in- haste, because 
it does not come into existence by being born. The 
soul stays in this body a complete year in the greatest 
agony, no matter whether it has deserved to be rewarded 
or to be punished. This is like the Barsakh of the 
’Persians, an intermediary stage between the periods of 
acting and earning and that of receiving award. For 
this reason the heir of the deceased must, according to 
Hindu 11 so, fulfil the rites of the year for the deceased, 
duties which end with the end of the year, for then the 
soul goes to that place which is prepared for if. 

We shall now give some extracts from their litera- 
ture to illustrate these ideas. First from the Vishnu 
Pitrdna , 

£l Mai trey a asked Parfiiaru about the purpose of hell 
and the punishment in it, whereupon he answered ; ( It 
is for distinguishing the good from the bad, knowledge 


Oji Lite am 1 1 

leaving tliHj 

lwly, ' 

EMfeirdiNg ! < 1 
pu | mi nr 
views. 


QnubatitiD h 
front 

P u vii.'LrJ. 

rind i3ju 

Sftiukhjit 

WSbool. 


64 


ALBERUNI'S INDIA . 


Fngc jz. 


in I LH ]i JjM 
authors uh 
inotoinpsy 
idicuus. 


from ignorance, and for the manifestation of justice. 
Hut not every sinner enters hell. Some of them escape 
hell by previously doing works of repentance and ex- 
piation. The greatest expiation is iminterrnptedly 
thinking of Vishnu in every action. Others wander 
about in plants, filthy insects and birds, and abominable 
dirty creeping things like lice and worms, for such a 
length of time as they desire it.’ ” 

In the book Stitkkhya we vend: “ He who deserves 
exaltation and reward will become like one of the 
angels mixing with the hosts of spiritual beings, not 
being prevented from moving freely in the heavens 
and from living in the company of their inhabitants, 
or like one of the eight classes of spiritual beings* Hut 
he who deserves humiliation as recompense for sins 
and crimes will become an animal or a plant, and will 
wander about until he deserves a reward so as to be 
saved from punishment, or until lie offers himself as 
expiation, dinging away the vehicle of the body, and 
tl ] e i 'eby at :.taiu I ng sal v ation « ’ ? 

A tbeosoph who inclines towards metempsychosis 
says: “The metempsychosis has four degrees: 

lf l The transferring s i.c. the procreation as limited 
to the hum an species, because it transfers existence 
from one individual to another ; the opposite of this is — ■ 
“ 2. The iranfor.oiitt-y, which concerns men in parti- 
cular, since they are transformed into monkeys, pigs, 
and elephants- 

iL 3< A stable condition of existence, like the condition 
of the plants. This is worse than transferring, because 
it is a stable condition of life, remains as It is through 
all time, and lasts as long as the mountains. 

“4. The disperse {/ r the opposite of number 3, which 
applies to the plants that arc plucked, and to animals 
immolated as sacrifice, because they vanish without 
leaving posterity.” 

A bn- Yakub of Sijistan maintains in his book, called 
u The disclosing of that which is veiled f that the species 


CHAPTER VL 




Eire preserved ; that metempsychosis always proceeds in 
one and the same species., never crossing its limits and 
passing into another spedes. 

This was also the opinion of the ancient Greeks; 
for Johannes Grammaticus, relates as the view of Plato 
that the rational souls will be clad in the bodies of 
animats, and that in this regard he followed the- fables 
of Pythagoras* 

Socrates says in the book Phmdo: lc The body is 
earthy, ponderous., heavy, and the soul, which loves it, 
wanders about and is attracted towards tin: 1 place, to 
which it looks from fear of the shapeless and of Hades, 
the gathering-place of the souls. They are soiled, and 
circle round the graves and cemeteries, where souls 
have been seen appearing in shadowy forms. This 
phantasmagoria only occurs to such souls as have not 
been entirety separated, in which there is still a part 
of that towards which the look is directed.” 

Further he says : It appears that these are not the 
souls of the good, but the souls of the wicked, which 
wander about in these tilings to make an expiation for 
tl \ a bad n ess of t h ei r f on n er kind of r ear ii i g. Th u s 1 1 icy 
remain until they we again bound in a body on account 
of the desire for the bodily $bape which has followed 
them* They will dwell in bodies the character of 
which is like the character which they had in the world* 
Whoso, e,tj. only cares for eating and drinking will enter 
the various kinds of asses and wild animals ; and he 
who preferred wrong and oppression will enter the 
various kinds of wolves* and falcons, and hawks/* 

Further be says about- the gathering-places of the 
souls after death: "If I did not think that I am 
going first to gods who arc wise, ruling, and good, 
then afterwards to men, deceased ones, better than 
those here. I should be wrong not to be in sorrow about 
death. 7 * 

Further, Plato says about the two places of reward and 

VOL. T* E 


QiLOUktana 
Jfrolu JoSritL- 

nus C ri^im- 

H)SLticu* ftrjd 
PI flto. 




ALBURUNFS INDIA. 


66 

of punishment ' " When a man dies, a daimon, is. one of 
th$ guardians of hell, leads him to the tribunal of judg- 
ment, and a guide whose special office it is brings him, to- 
gether with those assembled there, to Hades, and there lie 
remains the necessary number of many and long cycles 
of time. Telephos says, "The road of Hades is an 
even one/ T, however* say, 4 If the road were even or 
only a single one, a guide could be dispensed, with/ 
Now tli at soul which longs for the body, or whose deeds 
wore evil and not just, which resembles souls that have 
committed murder,, flies from there and encloses itself in 
every species of being until certain times pass by. 
Thereupon it is brought by necessity to that place 
which is suitable to it. But the pure soul finds com- 
panions and guides, gods, and dwells in the places 
which are suitable to it/' 

further he says; “Those of the dead who led a 
middle sort of life travel on a vessel prepared for 
them over Acheron, After they have received punish- 
ment and have been purified from crime, they wash 
and receive honour for the good deeds which they 
did according to merit. Those, however, who had 
committed great, sins, esj. the stealing from the sacri- 
fices of the gods, robberies on a great scale, unjust 
killing, repeatedly and consciously violating tbe laws, 
arc thrown into Tartarus, whence they will never be 
able to escape/' 5 

Further: “ Those who repented of their sins already 
during their lifetime, and whose crimes w ere of a some- 
what lower degree, who, ejj. committed some act of 
violence against their parents, or committed a murder by 
mistake, are thrown into Tartarus, being punished there 
for a whole year ; but then the wave throws them out to 
a place whence they cry to their antagonists, asking 
them to abstain from further retaliation, that they may 
be saved from the horrors of punishment. If those now 
agree, they are saved j if not, they are sent back into 


CHAPTER VI. 


*7 

Tartarus. And this, their punishment, goes on until 
their antagonists agree to their demands for being re- 
lieved. Those whose mode of life was virtuous are 
liberated from these places on this earth + They foe] as 
though released from prison, and they will inhabit the 
pure earth.” 

Tartarus is a huge deep ravine or gap into which the 
rivers How* All people understand by the punishment 
of hell the most dreadful things which are known to 
them, and the Western countries, like Greece, have 
sometimes to suffer deluges and floods. Hut the de- 
scription of Plato indicates a place where there are 
glaring flames, and it seems that he means the sea or 
some part of the ocean, in which there is a whirlpool 
[durdiir i a pun upon Tartarus). .No doubt these de- 
scriptions represent the belief of the men of those 
ages. 


f 6S ) 


1/ Lfcftt purt : 
flLofcflha, in 
L r um;raf. 


34- 


JVtvtaha, ;u:- 

iiiH'ililipf tit 
f ' i i 1 r (ij* r ' ) , 


CHAPTER VII. 

ON T 1 1 EC NATU1LE OF LIBERATION FROM THE WOULD, 
AND ON THE PATH LEADING THERETO- 

If the soul is bound up with the world, and its being 
bound np has a certain cause, it cannot be liberated 
from tins bond save by the opposite of this identical 
cause. Now according to the Hindus, as we Lave 
already explained (p. 55), the reason of the bond is 
ifpiarance-, and therefore it can only be liberated by 
knowledge t by comprehending ail tilings in such a way 
as to deft ne them both in general and in particular, 
rendering superfluous any kind of deduction and re- 
moving all do ubts. For the soul distinguishing between 
things (tu Svto) by means of definitions, recognises its 
own self, and recognises at the same time that it is its 
noble lot to last for ever, and that it is the vulgar lot of 
matter to change and to perish in all kinds of shapes 
Then it dispenses with matter, and perceives that that 
which it held to be good and delightful is in reality 
bad and painful. I11 this manner it attains real know- 
ledge and turns away from being arrayed in matter. 
Thereby action ceases, and both matter and soul become 
free by separating from each other. 

The author of the book of Pakmjali says : ;i The con- 
centration of thought on the unity of God induces man 
to notice something besides that with which ho is 
occupied. He who wants God, wants the good for the 
whole creation without a single exception for any reason 
whatever ; but he who occupies himself exclusively with 


CHAPTER VIL 


69 


his own self, will for its benefit neither inhale, breathe, 
nor exhale it {.sW^svi and ■prairdm'). When a man 
attains to this degree, his spiritual power prevails over 
Ms bodily power, and then he is gifted with the faculty 
of doing eight different things by which detachment is 
realised ; for a man can only dispense with that: which 
he is able to do, not- with that which is outside his 
grasp, These eight things are : — 

I, The faculty in man of making his body so thin 
that it becomes invisible to the eyes, 

l! 2. The faculty of making the body so light that it is 
indifferent to him whether he treads on thorns or mud 
or sand, 

“3. The faculty of making his body so big that it 
appears in a terrifying miraculous sin ape, 
if 4. The faculty of realising every wish. 

“5. The faculty of knowing whatever he wishes, 

41 6. The faculty of becoming the ruler of whatever 
religious community he desires. 

^7. That those over whom he rules are humble and 
obedient to him, 

“ 8, That all distances between a man and any far- 
away place vanish T 

The terms of the Sufi as to the knowing being and 
his attaining the tstaye of knowledge come to the same- 
effect, for they maintain that he has two souls— an 
eternal one, not exposed to change and alteration, by 
which he knows that which is hidden, the trans- 
cendental world, and performs wonders ; and another, 
a human soul, which is liable to being changed and being 
born. From these and similar views the doctrines of 
the Christians do not much differ. 

The Hindus say : If a man has the faculty to per- 
form these things, Ire can dispense with them, and will 
reach the goal by degrees, passing through several 
stages : — 

1. The knowledge of things as to their names and 


Rfifl 

pjirullcl. 


The differ- 
ent degrees 
of know- 
ledge; 

Fatafijtlii. 


Page 35 - 


On ktvjw- 

tnsimg- to 
the l*c»k 


7 fl ALBERUNVS INDIA. 

qualities and distinctions, which , however, does not. yet 
afford the knowledge of definitions. 

fi 2. Such a know ledge of things as proceeds as far as 
the definitions by which particulars are classed under 
the category of universal s, but. regarding which a man 
must still practise distinction- 

“ 3- This distinction (viveka) disappears, and man 
comprehends things at once as a whole, but within 
time, 

“4. This kind of knowledge is raised above iimc t and 
he who has it can dispense with names and epithets, 
which are only instruments of human imperfection. 
In this stage the intdkdm and the intdiigms unite 
with the midledum, so as to be one and the same 
thing, 3 * 

This is what Paianjcdi says about the knowledge 
which liberates the soul. In Sanskrit they call Its 
liberation Moksha — he, ike end > By the same term 
they call the last contact, of the eclipsed and eclipsing 
bodies, or their separation in both lunar and solar 
eclipses, because it is the end of the eclipse, the moment 
when the two luminaries which were in contact with 
each other separate. 

According to the Hindus, the organs of the senses 
have been made for acquiring knowledge, and the plea- 
sure which they afford has been created to stimulate 
people to research and investigation, as the pleasure 
which eating arid drinking afford to the taste has been 
created to preserve the individual by means of nourish* 
irient. 80 the pleasure of coU f u$ serves to preserve the 
species by giving birth to new individuals, i f there 
wore not special pleasure in these t wo functions, man 
and animals would not practise them for these pur- 
poses. 

In the book GttA we read: 4 11 Main is created for the 
purpose of hunting; and because hmovruj Is always 
the same, man has been gifted with the same organs. 


CHAPTER VI L 




If man were created for the purpose of admg, Lis 
organs would be differ mU y as actions arc different- in 
consequence of the difference of the three primary forces. 
However, bodily nature is bent upon adiny on account 
of its essential opposition to km win*/. Besides, it 
wishes to invest action with pleasures which in reality 
are pains* But knowledge is such as to leave this 
nature behind itself prostrated on the earth like an 
opponent, and removes all darkness from the soul as 
an eclipse or clouds are removed from the sun.” 

This resembles the opinion of Socrates, who thinks Quo-tiiti™ 
that the soul “being with the body, and wishing to pka*io. 
inquire into something, then is deceived by the body. 

But by cogitations something of its desires becomes 
clear to it. Therefore, its cogitation takes place in that 
time when it is not disturbed by anything like hearing, 
seeing, or by any pain or pleasure, when it is quite by 
itself, and has as much as possible quitted the body 
and its co tn panion ship* In particular* the soul of the 
philosopher Scorns the body, and wishes to be separate 
from it/’ 

“ Tf wo hi this our life did not make use of the body, 
nor had anything in common with it except in eases of 
necessity, if we were not inoculated with its nature, 
but were- perfectly free from it, we should corns near 
knowledge by getting rest from the ignorance of the 
body, and we should become pure by knowing our- 
selves as far as God would permit us. And it is only 
right to acknowledge that this is the truth, 3 ' 

Now we return and continue our quotation from the Th% V r,»:*st. 
book Gita. 

l: Likewise the other organs of the senses serve for 
acquiring knowledge. The knovA-wj person rejoices in r Sm^f r 
turning them to and fro on the field of knowledge, so 
that they are his spies. The a pprenh elision of the senses 
is different according to time. The senses which serve 
the heart perceive only that which is present. The 


7 2 


ALBEEUNPS INDIA. 


Pilk r '? 3& 
CmpE'ilfcy, 

’?> I'lit.li, ivml 
Liftman fie 
lire tli a flliief 
■ ibatiwl es t ; } 
Mftk&hfL 


heart reflects over that which is pr esent and remembers 
also the past The nature takes hold of the presect, 
claims it for itself in the past, and prepares to wrestle 
with it in future* The reason understands the nature 
of a thing, no regard being had of time or date, since 
past and future are the same for it, Its nearest helpers 
are reflection and nature ; the most distant are the five 
senses. When the senses bring before reflection some 
particular object of knowledge, rejledimi cleans it from 
the errors of the functions of the senses, and hands it 
over to reason. Thereupon reason makes universal 
what was before particular, and communicates it to the 
soul. Thus the soul comes to know it.” 

hiirtheiy the Hindus think that a man becomes know- 
ing in one of three ways 

1. By being inspired, not in a certain course of time,, 
but at once, at birth, and in the cradle, as. e.tj. the sage 
Kapil a. for he was born knowing and wise, 

3* By being inspired after a certain time, like the 
children of Brahman, for they were inspired when they 
came of age. 

3. By learning, and after a certain course of lime, 
like ah men who Jearn when their mind ripens. 

Liberation through knowledge can only be obtained 
by abstaining from evil. The branches of evil are many, 
but wo may classify them as cupidity y wrath, and ignor- 
ance. If the roots are cut the branches will wither. 
And here we have first to consider the rule of the two 
forces of capid-Uy and wrath > which arc the greatest and 
most pern i cions enemies of man, deluding him by the 
pleasure of eating and the delight of revenge, whilst in 
reality they arc much snore likely to lead him into 
pains and crimes. They make a man similar to the 
wild beasts and the cattle, nay, even to the demons and 
devils. 

Next we have to consider that man must, prefer the 
reasoning force of mind, by which he becomes similar 


CHAPTER VII. 


73 


to the highest a □ gels, to the forces of cupidity and 
wrath ; and, lastly, that he must turn away from the 
acti on s of the w or Id . He can n ot* h o we v or, give up t.1 \ ese 
actions unless he does away with their causes, which 
are his last and ambition. Thereby the second of the 
three primary farces is ci it away. Ho wever, the abstain- 
ing from ad- ion takes place in two different ways : — 

1 , By horin css, proorastiu alien, and ignorance accord- 
ing to the third farm. Tins mode is not desirable. Cor 
it will lead to a bl am able end. 

2 . T> y j u d icion s se 1 ect ion an d by pr e i'err in g th at \vl ] ich 
is better to that which is good, which way leads to a 
laudable end. 

The abstaining from actions is rendered perfect in this 
way, that a man quits anything that might occupy him 
and shuts himself up against it. Thereby he will be 
enabled to restrain his senses from extraneous objects 
to mch a degree that he does not any more know that 
there exists anything besides himself, and be enabled 
to stop all motions j and even the breathing. It is 
evident that a greedy man strains to effect his object, 
the man who strains becomes tired, and the tired man 
pants - so I be panting is the result, of greediness. If 
this greediness is removed, the breathing becomes like 
the: breathing of a being living at the bottom of the sea, 
that does not want breath ; and then the heart quietly 
rests on one thing, vift. the search for liberation and 
for arriving at the absolute unity. 

In tlie book Gild we read: "How is a man to ob- 
tain liberation who disperses his heart and does not, 
concentrate it alone upon Cod, who does not exclu- 
sively direct his action towards him V But if a man 
turns away his cogitation from all other things and 
concentrates it upon the One, the light of his heart will 
be steady like the light of a lamp filled with clean oik 
standing in a corner where no wind makes it dicker, 
and he will be occupied In such a degree as not to 


Furtl i vf 
qimkitiiin* 
from f/rfil. 


74 


A L RERUN PS INDIA. 


I'll a nine 
command- 
ructrM "F 
the Hindu 


n*J5» 37 . 


perceive anything that gives pain, like heat or cold, 
knowing that, everything besides the One, the Truth, 
is a vain phantom.” 

In the same book we read : I£ Pain and pleasure have 
no effect on the real world, just as the eon tin nous flow 
of the streams to the ocean does not affect its water. 
How could anybody ascend this mountain pass save him 
who has conquered cupidity and wrath and rendered 
them inert ? 

On account of what we have explained it is necessary 
that cogitation should be continuous, not in any way 
to be defined by number ; for a number always de- 
notes repealed times > and repeated times presuppose a 
break in the cogitation occurring between two consecu- 
tive times. This would interrupt the continuity, and 
would prevent cogitation becoming united with the 
object of cogitation. And this is not the object kept 
in view, which is, on the contrary, the continuity of 
rotfUation. 

This goal is attained, either in a single shape t i.c. a 
single stage of metempsychosis, or in several shapes f 
in this way, that a man perpetually practises virtuous 
behaviour and accustoms the soul thereto, so that this 
virtuous behaviour becomes to it a nature and an 
essential quality. 

Virtuous behaviour is that which is described by 
the religious law. Its principal laws, from which they 
derive many secondary ones, may be summed up in the 
fol low in g nine r u 1 es : — 

t. A man shall not kill. 

2. Nor lie- 

3. Nor steal. 

4. Nor whore. 

5. Nor hoard up treasures. 

6. He is perpetually to practise holiness and purity. 

7* He is to perform the prescribed fasting without 

an interruption and to dress poorly. 


chapter vn. 


7 S 

8. He is to hold fast to the adoration of God with 
praise and thanks. 

g. He is always to have in mind the word urn, the 
word of creation* without pronouncing it. 

The injunction to abstain from killing as regards 
animals (No. t) is only a special part of the. general 
order to abstain from doing angthhig hurtful. Under 
this head falls also the robbing of another man’s goods 
(No. 3), and the telling lies (No. 2), not to mention the 
foulness and baseness of so doing* 

The abstaining from hoarding up (No. 5) means that 
a man is to give up toil and fatigue ■ that he who seeks 
the bounty of God feels sure that he is provided for; 
and that, starting from the base slavery of material life, 
we may. by the noble liberty of cogitation, attain eternal 
bliss. 

Practising purity (No. 6) implies that a man knows the 
filth of the body, and that he feels called upon, to hate 
it, and to love cleanness of son!. Tormenting onesel F 
by poor dress (No, 7} means that a man should reduce 
the body, allay its feverish desires, and sharpen its senses. 
Pythagoras once said to a man who took great care to 
keep his body in a flourishing condition and to allow it 
everything it desired, “Them art not lazy in building 
thy prison ami making thy fetter as strong as possible/' 

The holding fast to meditation on God and the angels 
means a kind of familiar intercourse with them. The 
1 me tk jS tf t ) 1 1 hh ya say si li M an can n ot go bey on d any th i n g 
in the wake of which he marches, it being a scope 
to him (■{,£■. thus engrossing his thoughts and detaining 
him from meditation on God), 13 The book Gild says : 
h_ All that which is the object of a man's continuous 
meditating and bearing in mind is stamped upon him, 
so that ha even unconsciously is guided by it. Since, 
now, the Lime of heath is the time of remembering what 
we love, the soul cm leaving the body is united with 
that object which we love, and is changed into it/ 1 


76 


ALBERUNPS INDIA . 


However, the reader must not believe that it is only 
the union of the soul with any forms of life that perish 
and return into existence that is perfect t 1 hartiiou . '.'or tl 1 1 ■ 
q m fttioMs sain e b ook . Gi t d t say s : “ He w h o k n ow s wl 3 ei i A y ing th at 
God is everything, and that from him every thing pro- 
ceeds, is liberated, though his degree be lower than that 
of the saints,” 

The game book says ; fL Seek deliverance from this 
world by abstaining from any connection with its follies, 
by having sincere intentions in all actions and when 
making offerings by fire to God, without any desire for 
reward and recompense; further, by keeping aloof from 
mankind, ,T The real meaning of all this is that you 
should not prefer one because lie is your friend to 
another because he is your enemy, and that you should 
beware of negligence in sleeping when others are awake t 
and in waking when others are asleep ; for this, too, is 
a kind of being absent from them, though outwardly 
. y o u are p resent w it h 1 1 ien i . Further : Seek deli ver an cc 
by guarding soul from soul, for the soul is an enemy if 
it be addicted to lusts; but what an excellent friend 
it is when it is chaste / ” 

Grab Socrates, caring little for his impending death and 

p-inii^r. being glad at the prospect of corning to his Lord, said ; 

11 My degree must not be considered by any one of you 
lower than that of the swan,” of which people say that 
ii is the bird of Apollo, the sun, and that it therefore 
knows what is hidden that is, when feeling that it will 
soon die, sings more and more melodies from joy at the 
prospect of coming to its Lord. ff At least my joy at my 
prospect of coming to the object of my adoration must 
not. be less than the joy of this bird.” 

For similar reasons the Sufi define love as being en- 
grossed by the creature to the exclusion of God- 
Hwjiui In the book of PakmjaU we read : We divide the 

path of liberation into three parts : — 

“ L The practical one ( frri/jd-yot/a ), a proees s of 1 mbi t u- 


CHAPTER VII . 


77 


ating the senses in a gentle way to detach themselves ncfi inJ. i 1 1>; U.i 
from the extern at world, and to concentrate themselves % 

upon the internal one, so that they exclusively occupy smd ml 
themselves with God, This is in general the path of 
him who does not desire anything save what is sufficient 
to sustain life/’ 

In the boob Vun/rpi-])kavma we read : Ci The king 
Faiiksha, of the family of Bhrigu, asked Sat-auika. the 
head of an assembly of sages* who stayed with him, for 
the explanation of some notion regarding the deity, and 
by way of answer the sage communicated what he had 
heard from Saunaka, San n aka from EJsanas, and Usanas 
from Brahman, as follows : £ God is without first and 
without last; he has not been bom from anything, and 
ho has not borne anything save that of which it is im- 
possible to say that it- is He, and just as impossible to 
say that it is Noi-hc, How should T be able to ponder 
on the absolute good which is an outflow of hie benevo- 
lence* and of the absolute bad which is a product of his 
wrath ; and how could I know him so as to worship him 
as is Ills due T save by turning away from the world in 
general and by occupying myself exclusively with him, 
by perpetually cogitating on him? ’ 

41 ft was objected to him : r Man is weak and his life 
is a trifling matter. He can hardly bring himself to 
abstain from the necessities of life, and Hi is prevents 
him from walking on the path of liberation. If we 
were living in the Jlrsi age of mankind, when life 
extended to thousands of years, and when the world 
was good because of the non-existence of evil, we might 
hope that that which is necessary on this path should 
be done. But since we live in the last age* what, 
according to your opinion, is there in this revolving 
world that might protect him against the Hoods of the 
ocean and save hint front drowning? ’ 

u Thereupon Brahman spoke : * Man wants nourish- 
ment, shelter , and clothing. Therefore in them there 


ALBRRUNPS INDIA, 


is no harm to him. But happiness is only to be found 
in abstaining from things besides them, from superfluous 
and fatiguing actions. Worship God, him alone, and 
venerate him ; approach him in the place of worship 
with presents like perfumes and flowers; praise him 
and attach your heart to him so that it never leaves 
him. Give alms to the Brahmans and to others, and 
vow to God vows — special ones, like the abstaining 
f ron l m e at ; gene ral oi ies, li ke fastin g. Vo w to him a n 1 - 
mals which you must not hold to he something different 
from yourselves, so as to feel entitled to kill them. 
Know that he. is everything. Therefore, whatever you 
do 5 let it be for his sake ' and if you enjoy anything of 
the vanities of the world, do not forget him in your 
intentions. If you aim at the fear of God and the 
faculty of worshipping hinij thereby you will obtain 
liberation, not by anything else." 

The book (rUn- says : fie who mortifies 1 life lust does 
not go beyond the necessary wants ; and lie who is 
content with that which is sufficient for the sustaining 
of life will not be ashamed nor be despised.” 

The same book: says: “ If man is not without wants- 
as regards, the demands of human nature, if he wants 
nourishment to appease thereby the heat of hunger and 
exhaustion, sleep in order to meet the injurious i nil li- 
enees of fatiguing motions and a couch to rest upon, 
let the latter be clean and smooth, every where equally 
high above the ground and sufficiently large that ho 
may stretch out his- body upon it. Let him have a 
place of temperate climate, not hurtful by cold nor by 
boat, and where he is safe against the approach of 
reptiles. All this helps him to sharpen the functions 
1 1 f h is It cart, 1 1 1 at I i e m ay w i tl t oi it an y in te r r 1 1 pt ion coi i - 
cent rate his cogitation on the unity. For all things 
besides the necessities of life in the way of eating and 
clothing are pleasures of a kind which, in reality, are 
disguised pains. To acquiesce in them is impossible. 


CHAPTER VII. 


79 


and would end in the gravest inconvenience* There is 
pleasure only to him who kills the two intolerable 
enemies, l mi and wrath-, already during his life and not 
when he dies, who derives his rest and bliss from within, 
not. from without ; and who, in the final result, is able 
altogether to dispense with his senses/ 3 

Vasudeva spoke to Arjnna : "If you want the abso- 
lute good, take care of the nine doors of thy body, 
and know what is going In and out through them. 
Constrain Lhy heart from dispersing its thoughts, and 
quiet thy soul by thinking of the upper membrane of 
the child’s brain, which is first soft, and then is closed 
and becomes strong, so that it would seem that there 
were no more need of it. Do not take perception of 
the senses for anything but the nature immanent hi 
their organs, and therefore beware of following it/ 1 

II. The second part of the path of liberation 
renunciation (the via ommionw), based on the know- 
ledge of the evil which exists in the changing tilings of 
creation and their vanishing shapes. In consequence 
the heart shuns them, the longing for theta ceases, and 
a man is raised above the thne primviy forces which are 
the cause of actions and of their diversity. For he who 
accurately understands the a flairs of the world knows 
that the good ones among them are evil in r entity, and 
that the bliss which they a fiord changes in the course 
of recompense into pains. Therefore he avoids every- 
thing which might aggravate Ills condition of being 
entangled in the world, and which might result in 
making him stay in the world for a still longer period. 

The hook GlM says : c: Men err in what is ordered 
and what is forbidden. They do not know how to dis- 
tinguish between good and evil in actions. Therefore, 
giving up acting altogether and keeping aloof from it, 
this is the action," 

The same book says : The purity of knowledge is 
high above the purity of all other things, for by know- 


ivurft 3|? . 


The pn.il i of 

I'UUUDCfo- 
t f- 1 1 OH tin.: 
Second pfift. 
of tli a pEfi.il i 
f ,>f liberal Jon 
accord 11 1 l; L< n 
til'd. 


ALBBRUNFS INDIA . 


Worship ,ia 
LI 10 thinJt 
part of the 
mth of 
i i i on 
;Wt!GL-dmg tn 
<nid. 


On liswfii- 
>‘<ma -■! := ^ 
pnt.1 1 ] OLuEin g 
to .Moksha. 


Zo 

ledge ignorance is rooted out and certainty is gained in 
exchange for doubt, which is a means of torture, for 
there is no rest for him who doubts*” 

It is evident from this that, the first part of the path 
of liberation is instrumental to the second one* 

III. The third part of the path of liberation which is 
to be considered as instrumental to the preceding two 
is worship, for this purpose, that God should help a man 
to obtain liberation, and deign to consider him worthy 
of such a shape of existence in the metempsychosis in 
which he may effect his progress towards beatitude. 

The author of the book OUd distributes the duties of 
worship among the hyhj, the voice, and the heart* 

What the body lias to do is fasting, prayer, the fulfil- 
ment of the law, the service to wards the angels and the 
sages among the Brahmans, keeping clean the body, 
keeping aloof from killing under all circumstance s a and 
never looking at another man's wife and other property. 

What the voice has to do is the reciting of the holy 
texts, praising God, always to speak the truth, to 
address people mildly, to guide them, and to order 
them to do good* 

What the heart lias to do is to have straight, honest 
intentions,, to avoid haughtiness, always to be patient, 
to keep your senses under control, and to have a cheer- 
ful mind. 

The author (Patemjali) adds to the three parts of the 
path of liberation a fourth one of an illusory nature, 
called Rasdi/anrij consisting of alcheruistic tricks with 
various drugs, intended to realise things which by nature 
are impossible. We shall speak of these things after - 
w ards (vid 0 chap * x vii. ). They ha ve no 0 1 h e r relation to 
the theory of Moksha but this, that also in the tricks of 
Easily un a everything depends upon the intention, the 
well-under stood determination to carry them out, this 
determination resting on the firm belief in them, and 
resulting in the endeavour to realise them. 


CHAPTER VII. Si 

According to the Hindus, liberation is union with 
God; for they describe God as a being who can dis- 
pense with hoping for a recompense or with fearing 
oppn si don . n nat 1 ai n abl 0 to th 0 u ght 5 be ca 1, 1 se lie is su b - 
lime beyond ah un Likeness which is abhorrent end all 
likeness which is sympathetic, knowing himself not by 
a knowledge which comas ho him like an accident, re- 
garding something which hud not in every phase before 
been known to him. And this same description the 
Hindus apply to the liberated for he is equal to God 
in all these things except in the matter of beginning, 
since he has not existed from all eternity, and except 
this, that before liberation be existed in ikv world of 
enitrtbglementy knowing the objects of knowledge only 
by a phantasmagoric kind of knowing which he had 
acquired by absolute exertion, whilst the object, of his 
knowing is still covered, as it were, by a veil. On the 
contrary, in the world of liberation all veils are lifted, 
all covers taken off, and obstacles removed* There the 
being is absolutely knowing, not desirous of learning 
anything unknown, separated from the soiled percep- 
tions of the senses f united with the everlasting ideas. 
Therefore in the end of the book 0 f Paiailjali, after the 
pupil Ei as asked about the nature of liberation, the 
master says: “If you wish, say, Liberation is the 
cessation of the functions of the throe /oreos, and their 
returning to that home whence they had come. Or if 
you wish, say, It is the return of th- L soul as a hmwmig 
being into its own nature/* 

The two men f pupil and master, disagree regarding 
him who has arrived at the stage of liberation. The 
anchorite asks in the book of Snmkhya, "Why does 
not death take place when action ceases ? " The sage 
replies, “ Because the cause of the separation is a 
certain condition of the soul whilst the spirit is still 
in the body. Soul and body are separated by a natural 
condition which severs their union. Frequently when 

VOL. L r 


Oil tins 
iiftHn'o of 
Mtfk&lia, 

itself- 


411. 


QlLllU+iiilLH 

from f'iil ns 7 l- 
jali* 


From 


&2 


ALBF.RUNPS INDIA. 


Fjotnii 


the cause of an effect has already ceased or disappeared* 
the effect. itself still gibes on for a certain time, slacken- 
ing, and by and by decreasing, till in the end it ceases 
totally ; e.fj. tlie si Ik- weaver drives round Iris wheel with 
his mallet until it whirls round rapidly, then lie leaves 
it; however, it does not stand still, though the mallet 
that drove it round has been removed ; the motion of 
the wheel decreases by little and little, and finally it 
ceases, Jt is the same case with the body. After the 
action of the body has ceased, its effect is still lasting 
until it arrives, through the various stages of motion 
and of reseat the cessation of physical force and of the 
effect which had originated from preceding causes. 
Thus liberation is finished when the body has been 
com pletely prostrated / 5 

In tire book of Patahjali there is a passage which 
expresses similar ideas. Speaking of a man who re- 
strains his senses and organs of perception, as the turtle 
draws in ir.& limbs when it is afraid, lie says that i£ lie 
is not fettered, because the fetter lias been loosened, 
and lie is not liberated, because Ills body is still with 
him/* 

There is, however, another passage in the same hook 
which does not agree with the theory of libe ral ion as 
expounded above. He says : f ’ The bodies arc the snares 
of the souls for the purpose of acquiring recompense. 
He who arrives at the- stage of liberation has; acre bred, 
in his; actual form of existence, the recompense for all 
the doings of the past. Then he ceases to labour to 
acquire a title to a recompense in the future, lie frees 
himself from the snare ; he can dispense with the parti- 
cular form of his existence, and moves in it quite freely 
without being ensnared by it. He has even the faculty 
of moving wherever he likes, and if he like, he might- 
rise above the face of death, F or the thick, cohesive 
bodies cannot oppose an obstacle to his form of exist- 
ence (as, €.g. a mountain could not. prevent him from 


CHAPTER VIL S3 

parsing through). Haw, then, could his body oppose an 
obstacle to his soul ? ” 

Similar views are also met with among the Sufi, 

Some Sflfi author relates the following story : “A com- 
pany of Sufi came down unto us, and sat down at some 
distance from 11 s. Then one of them rose, prayed, and 
on 1 laving finished bis prayer, turned towards mo and 
spoke : 1 0 master, do you know here a place fit for us 
to dit- on? 3 Now I thought he meant shujmuj^ and so 1 
poi n ted 0 u t to M m a place . Th e man w out t.be re , t h re w 
himself on the back of his head, and remained motion- 
less. Now I rose, went to him and shook him, but lo ! 
ho was already cold.” 

The Sufi explains the- Koranic verse, c< We have 
made room for him on earth” (Sura iS T 83), in this m.yo 4 l. 
way: “If lie wishes, the earth rolls itself lip for 
him ; if he wishes, he can walk on the water and in 
the air, which offer him sufficient resistance so as to 
enable him to walk, whilst the mountains do not offer 
him any resistance- when I10 wants to pass through 
them,” 

W e next s p v a k of 1 1 lose w ho, not w it h si ai idi 11 g til 1 eir Out] ... r 
greatest exertions, do not reach the stage of liberation, iwu L ' 

a Mt>fea3ia 

There are several classes of them , The book Sd?kkh t/a ^.tvdms in 
says : ’ ( ile who enters upon the world with a virtuous r ' " " J " 
character, who is liberal with what he possesses of the 
goods of the world, is recompensed in it in this way, 
that he obtains the fulfilment of his wishes and desires, 
that he moves about in the world in happiness, happy 
in body and soul and in all other conditions of life. For 
in reality good fort une is a recompense for former deeds, 
done either in the same shape or in some preceding 
shape. Whoso lives in this world piously but without 
knowledge will be raised and be rewarded, but not be 
liberated, because the means of attaining it are want- 
ing in his case. Whoso is content and acquiesces 
in possessing the faculty of practising the above-men- 


ALBBRUNI’S INDIA. 


S 4 


A parable 
showing 
pyij'plli 
in Ulc 
Yarknii 
degree* of 

kittHvvleclge, 


t toned eight commandments (xw, vide p. 74), whoso 
glories in them, is successful by means of them, and 
believes that they are liberation, will remain in the 
same stage/ J 

The following is a parable characterising those who 
vie with each other in the progress through the various 
stages of knowledge; — A man is travelling together 
with his pupils for some business or other towards the 
end of the night. Tit e 11 there appears something stand- 
ing erect before them on the road., the nature of which 
it is impossible to recognise on account of the darkness 
of night. The mail trims towards his pupils, and asks 
them, one after the other, what it is ? The first says ; 
" I do not know what it is/ 1 The second says : i( I do 
not know, and 1 have no means of learning what it is/’ 
The third says : u It is useless to examine what it is, 
for the rising of the day will reveal it. If it is some- 
thing terrible, it will disappear at daybreak - if it is 
something else, the nature of the thing will anyhow be 
cl ear to us. " Now, non e of 1 1 1 ern h ad attained to know - 
ledge, the hret, because he was ignorant ; the second, 
because he was incapable, and had no means of know- 
ing ; the third, because he was indolent and acquiesced 
in his ignorance. 

The fourth pupil T however, did not give an answer, 
lie stood still, and then lie went on in the direction of 
the object. On coming near, he feu nd that it was pump- 
kins on which there lay a tangled mass of something. 
Now he knew that a living man, endowed with free 
will, does not stand still in his place until such a 
tangled mass is formed on his head, and ho recognised 
at once that it was a lifeless object standing erect 
Further, he could not be sure if it was not a hidden 
place for some dunghill. So he went quite close to it, 
struck against it with his foot till it fell to the ground. 
Thus all doubt having been removed, he returned to 
his master and gave him the exact- account. In such a 


CHAPTER VIL 

way the master obtained l lie knowledge through the 
intermediation of his pupils* 

With regard to similar views of the ancient Greeks 
we can quote Ammon ins, who relates the following as a 
sentence of Pythagoras : “ Let yonr desire and exertion 
in this world be directed towards tho union with the Fird 
Cti'itsa f which is the cause of the cause of yonr existence, 
that you may endure forever. You will bo saved from 
destruction and from being wiped out ; you will go to 
the world of the true sense, of the true joy, of the true 
glory, in everlasting joy and pleasures/' 

Further, Pythagoras says : “ How can you hope for 
the state of detachment as long as you are clad in 
bodies ? And how will yon obtain liberation as long as 
you are incarcerated in them ? ” 

A rn mo ni u s red ates : “ E m ped oel es ai 1 d h i r ru ccessors 
as far as I I erodes (swr) think that the soiled souls always 
remain commingled with the world until they ask the 
universal soul for help. The universal soul intercedes 
for it with the TntdUsfrnr.e, the latter with the Creator. 
The! ’ r t uitor ai ford a som etb in g o f h i s li gh t to Intel ] ige n ce ; 
Intelligence affords something of it to the universal sou I , 
which is immanent in this world. Now the soul wishes 
to be et i lightened by Intelligence, until at last the 
individual soul recognises the universal soul, unites 
with it, and is attached to its world* But this is a pro- 
cess over which many ages must pass* Then the soul 
comes to a region where there is neither place nor time, 
nor anything of that which is in the world, like transient 
fatigue or joy/’ 

Socrates says: “The soul on leaving space wanders 
to the holiness (rb tca$ap6v) which lives for over and 
exists eternally, being related to it. It becomes like 
holiness in duration, because it is by means of something 
like contact able to receive impression & from holiness. 
This, its susceptibility fco impressions, is called Intelli- 
gence/* 


Papfljfd# 
from Gnsiik 
u nth nr A, 
Animcmfus, 
riiito, wi<1 
Ftwlns 


Page 42. 


£6 


A LB BRUNTS INDIA , 


nmlimim 
comjjarcii tch 
;.Ll AavAttJlIi 
tro-j ac-iNird- 
i cL!-; r o /-' ti - 

CiL n’j'iLi! ii, 


further, Socrates says : “The soul is very similar to 
the divine substance which does not die nor dissolve, 
and is the only intdiitfibiU which lasts for ever ; the 
body is the contrary of it. When son] and body unite, 
nature orders body to serve* the soul to rule ; but when 
they separate, the soul goes to another place than that 
to which the body goes. There it is happy with things 
that are suitable to it ; it reposes from being circum- 
scribed in space, rests from folly, impatience, love, fear, 
and other human evils, od this condition, that it had 
always been pure and hated the body. If. however, it 
has sullied itself by connivance with the body, by 
serving and loving it so that the body was subservient 
to its lusts and desires, in this case it does not ex- 
perience anything more real than the species of bodily 
things (t<> \7U}i*ro*tuk) and the contact, with them/’ 

Proclns says: <L The body in which the rational soul 
dwells has received the figure of a globe, like the ether 
and its individual beings. The body in which both the 
rational and the irrational souls dwell lias received an 
erect figure like man. The body in which only the 
irrational soul dwells has received a figure erect and 
curved at the same time, like that of the irrational 
animals. The body in which there is neither the one 
nor the other, in which there is nothing but the nourish- 
ing power, has received an erect figure, hut it is at the 
same time curved and turned upside down, so that the 
head is planted in the earth, as is the case with the 
plants. The latter direction being the contrary to that 
of man, man is a heavenly tree, the root of which is 
directed towards its home, i.r. heaven, whilst the root 
of vegetables is directed towards their home, Le. the 
earth.’ 1 

The Hindus hold similar views about nature. Ar- 
juna asks, “What is Brahman like in the world?"’ 
Whereupon VTlsudeva answers, f: Imagine him like an 
Ahkdlha tree.” This is a huge precious tree, well 


CHAPTER VII. 


known among them, standing upside clown, the roots 
being above, the branches below. If it has ample 
nourishment, it becomes quite enormous : the branches 
spread far, cling to the soil, and creep into it, Roots 
and branches above and below resemble each oilier to 
such a degree that it is difficult to say which is which. 

“ Brahman is the upper roots of this tree, its trunk is 
the Veda, its branches are the different doctrines and 
schools, its leaves are the different modes of inter- 
pretation ■ its nourishment comes from tka three force# ; 
the tree becomes strong and compact through the senses. 
The intelligent being has no other keen desire but that 
of felling Uiis tree, i.e. abstaining from the world and 
its vanities. When lie has succeeded in felling it, he 
wishes to settle in the place where it has grown, a 
place in which there is no returning in a further stage 
of metempsychosis. When he obtains this, he leaves 
behind himself all the pains of heat and cold, and 
coming from the light of sun and moon and common 
lines, he attains to the divine lights,” 

The doctrine of Paiafijali is akin to that of the 
Sfi.fi regarding being occupied its meditation on the 
Truth (he, God), for they say, “As long as yon point 
to something, you are not a m&ni&tj but when the 
Truth seizes upon the object of your pointing and 
annihilates it, then there is no longer an indicating 
person nor an object indicated.” 

There are some passages in their system which show 
that they believe in the pantheistic union ; e.g, one of 
t hem, being asked what is the Truth (God), gave the 
following answer : “ How should I not know the being 
which is I in essence and Not- 1 in space? If [ return 
once more into existence, thereby I am separated from 
him ; and if I am neglected (i.£ r not born anew and 
sent into the world), thereby I become light and be- 
come accustomed to the union” (sic). 

Abu -Bek r Ash-shibli says : “Cast off all } and you 




SClU jv'lv;\I 
IhqIs. 


A LEBRUN PS INDIA . 


S3 

will attain to us completely- Then von will exist; but 
you will not report about us to others as long as your 
doing is like ours.” 

Abfl-Yaaid Alb.ifit3.mi once being asked how lie had 
attained his stage in Hu Eton „ answered : ''I cash off my 
own self as a serpent casts oft its skin. Then l con- 
sidered my own self, and found that / was Ifef Le> 
God. 

The Sufi explain the Koranic passage (Sura 2 , 68), 
<£ Then we spoke: Heat 1dm with a part of herd in the 
following manner: "The order to kill that which is 
dead in order to give life to it indicates that the heart 
does not become alive by the lights of knowledge 
unless the body be killed by ascetic practice to such 
a degree that it does not any more exist as a reality, 
lint only in a formal way, whilst your heart is a reality 
on which no object of the formal world has any in- 
fluence,” 

Further they say: “Between man and God there 
are a t h o n sail dsl ages 0 f light and d ai k lie ss . M e i i exe 1 1 
themselves to pass Hi rough darkness to light, and 
when they have attained to the stations of light, there 
is no return for tbom/’ 


C *9 ) 


CHAPTER VIII. 

ON THE DIFmtENT CLASSES OF OKEATEU liKINCiS. A Kf> 
ON THEIR NAJlISp 

TjU'i subject of this chapter is very difficult to study and 
understand accurately, since we Muslims look at it from 
without, and tin: Hindus 1 hem selves do network it out 
to scientific perfection. As we, however, want it for 
the further progress of this treatise, we shall communi- 
cate ah we have heard of it until the date of the present 
book* And first we give an extract from the book 
feifohh'hya. 

The anchorite spoke : 1 How many classes and species 
are there of Jiving "bodies V ? 

f1 The sage replied ; 1 There are three classes of them 
the spiritual ones in -the height, men in the middle, and 
animals in the depth. Their species are fourteen in 
number, eight of which belong to the spiritual beings* 
Brahman, In dr a, Prajfipati, San my a, Handlmrva, Yah> 
sha, Rftkshasa, and Pi&'tca. Hve species are those of 
the animals — cattle, wild beasts, birds, creeping things, 
and graving things i.e. the trees. And. lastly, one 
s pe ci e s is re pres enfc ed by ru an . ' 1 ’ * 

The author of the same book lias In another part of 
It given the following enumeration with different names : 
“ Brahman, lndra s Prsijupath Ibindharva, Yaksha, Ruk- 
sh asu, Fitaras , I J iM\ ca. ” 

The Hindus are people who rarely preserve one and 
the same order of things, and in their enumeration of 
things there is much that is arbitrary. They use or 


Tlie Wii iii* 

clofleea iif 

wwiurm 

JLflCllil M 15 I l j ; t.> 

Rroi.iM-n, 


90 


ALBERUNVS INDIA. 


invent numbers of names, and who is to kinder or to 
control them ? 

In the book G-Ud, Vasudeva says : t£ When the jlrat of 
I'Agc^^ the i hree ''primary forces prevails, it particularly applies 
itself to developing the intellect, purifying the senses, 
and producing action for the angels. Blissful rest is one 
of the consequences of this force, and liberation one of 
its results, 

"When the second force prevails, it particularly ap- 
plies itself to developing cupidity, It will lead to 
fatigue, and induce to actions for the Yaksha and Kuk- 
shasa. In this case the recompense will be according 
to the action. 

i; If the third force prevails, it particularly applies 
itself to developing ignorance, and making people easily 
beguiled by their own wishes* Finally, it produces 
wakefulness, carelessness, laziness, procrastination in 
fulfilling duties, and sleeping too long. If man acts, he 
acts for the classes of the BMta and Pisaca, the devils, 
for the Preta who carry the spirits in the air, not in 
paradise and not in hell. Lastly, this force will lead 
to punishment; man will be lowered from the stage 
of humanity, and will be changed into animals and 
plants.” 

Tn another place the same author says : " Belief and 
virtue are in the Deva among the spiritual beings. 
Therefore that man who resembles them believes in 
God „ clings to him, and longs for him. Unbelief and 
vice are in the demons called A sura and Bilks hasa. 
That man whe resembles them does not believe in God 
nor attend to his commandments. Tie tries to make 
the world godless, and is occupied with things which 
are harmful in this world and in the world beyond, and 
are of no use! 

The authur If we now combine these statements with each other, 
ciSTSiSus it will be evident that there is some confusion both in 
names and in their order. According to the most 


CHAPTER VIII. 


91 


popular view of the majority of the Hindus, there are 
the following eight classes of spiritual beings : — 

t. The Bern* or angels, to whom the north belongs. 
They specially belong to the Hindus, People say that 
Zoroaster made enemies of the Shamaniyya or Bud- 
dhists by calling the devils by the name of the class of 
angels which they consider the highest, i.e. Bern* And 
this usage has been transmitted from Magi an times 
down to the Persian language of our days. 

2. Baity a 'ddm-am, the demons who live in the 
south. To them everybody belongs who opposes the 
religion of the Hindus and persecutes the cows. Not- 
withstanding the near relationship which exists betw een 
them and tins Devn, there is. as Hindus maintain, no 
end of quarrelling and fighting among them, 

3. fJamUnirviL the musicians and singers who make 
music before the Dev a. Their harlots are called Ap™ 
saras. 

4. Yaksha, the treasurers or guardians of the Deva. 

5. IMJcshasa, demons of ugly and deformed shapes, 

6« Xinnura, having human shapes but horses* heads, 

being the contrary of the centaurs of the Greek, of 
whom the lower half has the shape of a horse, the upper 
half that of a man. The latter figure is that of the 
Zodiacal sign of Arcitenens. 

7. Ndga, beings in the shape of serpents. 

8. Vidy&dhara, demon -sorcerers, who exercise a 
certain witchcraft, but not such a one as to produce 
permanent results. 

If we consider this series of beings, w r e find the 
angelic power at the upper end and the demoniac at the 
lower, and between them there is much interhl ending. 
The qualities of these beings are different, inasmuch 
as they have attained this, stage of life in the course of 
metempsychosis by a dim. and actions are different on 
account, of l he three primary forces. They live very 
long, since they have entirely stripped ©IT the bodies. 


C ritid ema 
on tJits list- 


92 


A LEE RUNTS INDIA. 




On the 

1 Ki i 


since they are free from all exertion, and are able to do 
things which are impossible to man. They serve man 
in whatever he desires, anti are near him in eases of need. 

However, we can learn front the extract fi fcrnS&mfchyn 
that this view is not correct. For Brahman, Indra, and 
Frajapati are not names of species, but of individuals. 
Brahman and Prajnpati very nearly mean the same, 
but they bear different names on account of some 
quality or other, Indrn. is the ruler of the worlds. Be- 
sides, Yusndevu enumerates the Yaksha and Bakshasa 
together in one and the same class of demons, whilst 
tile Puranas represent the Yaksha as guardian-angels 
and the servants of guardian-angels. 

After all this, we declare that the spiritual beings 
which we have mentioned are one category, who have 
atfai ne d tl i ai r pr ese n t stage of e x.i ste n ce 1 >y action dur- 
ing the time when they were human beings. They have 
left, their bodies behind them, for bodies are weights 
which impair the power and shorten the duration of 
life. Their quail t>I es an d con d i tion s are d i ffe ren t. in 1 1 1 e 
same measure as one or other of the ikrm pririia'ry fmxc-s 
prevails over them. The first force is peculiar to the 
Deva, or angels who live in quietness and bliss. The 
predominant faculty of their mind is the comprehends ng 
of an idea without matter, as it is the predominant 
faculty of the mind of man to comprehend the idea in 
■m attm\ 

The third force is peculiar to the PiiSca and Bhiita, 
whilst the second is peculiar to the classes between them. 

The Hindus snv that the number of Dev a is thirty- 
three kopi or rra-jvp of which eleven belong to MoM- 
deva. Therefore this number is one of his surnames, 
and his name irself ( Mail fi dev a) points in this direction. 
The sum of the number of angels just mentioned would 
be 330 , 000 , 000 . 

Further, they represent the Deva as eating and drink- 
ing, cohabiting, living and dying, since they exist 


CHAPTER 1 7111. 


93 


within matter, though in the most subtle and most 
simple Mud of it* and since they have attained, this by 
action, not by knowledge. The book Paianjali relates 
that Nandike^vara offered many sacrifices to Mahudeva, 
and was in consequence transferred into paradise in his 
human shape; that Indra* the rider, had intercourse with 
the wife of Xalmslia the Brahmin, and therefore was 
changed into a serpent by way of punishment. 

After the Deva comes the class of the Pit art fs, the 
deceased ancestors, and after them the Jflnlta, human 
beings who have attached themselves to the spiritual 
beings (Deva), and stand in the middle between them 
and mankind* He who holds this degree, but without 
being free from the body, is called either IU$Jd or 
xSiddka or Mtmi, and these differ among themselves 
according to their qualities* Svfrfha is be who lias 
attained by his action the faculty to do in the world 
whatever he likes, but who does not aspire further, and 
does not exert himself on the path leading to liberation* 
He may ascend to the degree of a RisliL If a Brahmin 
attains this degree, lie is called Bmhnarshi ; if the 
Kehatriya attains it, he is called RAjcvrskL It is not 
possible for the lower classes to attain this degree* 
Riehis are the sages who, though they are only human 
beings, excel the angels on account, of their knowledge. 
Therefore the angels learn from them, and above them 
there is none but Brahman, 

Alter the Bmhmarshi and Riijarshi come those classes 
of the populace winch exist also among us, the castes, 
to whom we shall devote el separate chapter. 

All these latter beings are ranged under matter. 
Now, as regards the notion of that which is above 
matter, we say that the is the middle between 
matter and the spiritual divine ideas that are above 
matter, and that the three primary f(rrms exist in the i;A^ 
dynamically (h> iWa/Jua), So the £Ar/, with all that is 
comprehended in it, is a bridge from above to below. 


On the Pitii- 
ra* ami 
Etteh!*. 


ViK hj.HI I J it.! 
uiaifcy ill 
Uoimiitn, 
SarSyjiija, 
and Rndra, 


ALBERUNFS INDIA, 


94 

Any life wlilcli circulates in the mAij under the exclu- 
sive influence of the First Cause is called Brahman, 
r.i£* PrajdpaU, and by many other names which occur in 
their religions law and tradition. It is identical with 
nature in so far as it is active, for all bringing into 
existence, the creation of the world also, is attributed 
by them to Brahman, 

Any life which circulates in the under the influ- 
ence of the st-Tond farce is called iY tird-yana in the 
tradition of the Hindus, which means nature in so fur 
as it lias reached the end of its action* and is now striv- 
ing to preserve that which has been produced. Thus 
Nani yam; strives so to arrange the world that it should 
endure. 

Any life which circulates in the vky under the influ- 
ence of the third force,- Is called Maluuk-m and Navi'kara, 
but his best-known name is Rudra. Jrlis work is 
destruction and annihilation, like nature in the last 
stages of activity, when its power slackens. 

These three beings bear different names, as they cir- 
culate through the various degrees to above and below, 
and accordingly their actions are different. 

But prior to all these beings there is one source 
whence everything is derived, and in this unity they 
comprehend all three things, no more separating one 
from the other. This unity they call Vishnu, a name 
which more properly designates the middle force ; but 
sometimes they do not even make a distinction between 
this middle force and the first: cause (i.e, they make 
Nanay an a the causa eaumrum). 

Here there is an analogy between Hindus and Chris- 
tians, as the latter distinguish between the Three Fcr- 
mns and give them separate names, Father, Won, and 
Holy Ghost, but unite them into one substance. 

This is what clearly results from a careful exami- 
nation of the Hindu doctrines. Of their traditional 
accounts, which are full of silly notions, we shall speak 


CHAPTER VIII. 


95 


hereafter in the course of our explanation. You must 
not wonder if the Hindus, in their stories about the 
class of the Dev a, whom we have explained as nngeh, 
allow' them all sorts of things unreasonable in them- 
selves, some perhaps not objectionable, others decidedly 
objectionable, both of which the theologians of Islam 
would declare to be incompatible with the dignity and 
nature of angels. 

If you compare these traditions with those of the 
b reels s regarding their own religion, you will cease to 
jjnd the- Hindu system strange. We have, already men- 
tioned that they called the angels gods (p. 36), Now 
consider their stories about Zeus, and you will under- 
stand the truth of our remark. As for anthropomor- 
phisms and traits of animal life which, they attribute to 
him, we give the following tradition : “ When he was 
born, bis father wanted to devour him ; but his mother 
Look a stone, wrapped rags round it, and gave hi u 1 the 
stone to swallow, whereupon he went away/ 5 This is 
also mentioned by Gal onus in his Book of Speeches, 
where he relates ilia! Philo had in an enigmatical way 
described the preparation of the fjMpfmKov in 

a poem of Ins by the following words : — 

“ Take red h(dr f dijfmiiu/ mved odour ^ the offering to (he (fod*. 
And of -now's blood miyh weight* of the mimlrtr of the mentnt 
fiictdbux." 

The poet means five pounds of sall'ron, because the senses 
are five, The weights of the other ingredients of the 
mixture he describes in similar enigmatic terms, of 
which (xalemra gives a commentary- In the same 
poem occurs the following verse; — ■ 

u A od. 0 f the pne itdonymtm root whirJi ha* (jVOPtti, w the d id net 
in trhiah Zcm urn bom” 

To which (/ale mis adds : u This is Androjjof/on Ifimlus, 
which bears a false name, because it is called an ear of 
corn, although it is not an ear, but a root. The poet 


Greek ]Xiv:a1- 
Ld^. SLurioa 
iilmut r £v \ ie. 


0 


ALBERUNFS INDIA . 


prescribes that, it should be Cretan, because the myth eu- 
logists relate that Zeus was born on the mountain 
Pagis,^, Aiktoaov in Greta* where his mother concealed him 
from his father Kronos, that ho should not devour him 
as he had devoured others, 1 * 

Besides, well-known story-books tell that he married 
certain women one after the other* cohabited with 
others, doing violence to them and not marrying them ; 
among them Europe the daughter of Phoenix* who was 
taken From him by Asterios, king of Crete. After- 
wards she gave birth to two children from him, IVlines 
and Eliadamantlme. This happened long before the 
Israelites left the desert and entered Palestine. 

Another tradition is that he died in Crete, and was 
buried there at the time of Samson the Israelite, being 
ySO years of age ; that he was called Zeus when, he had 
become old, after lie bad formerly been called Dim / and 
that the first who gave him this name was Oecrops, the 
first king of Athens. It was common to all of them 
to indulge in their lusts without any restraint, and to 
favour the business of the pander ; and so far they were 
not unlike Zoroaster and King Guehtftsp when they 
desired to consolidate the realm and the rule {&&) + 
Chroniclers maintain that Oecrops and his successors 
are the source of all the vices among the Athenians, 
meaning thereby such things as occur iu the story of 
Alexander* viz, that Nectanebns, king of Egypt, after 
having fled before Artaxerxes the Black and hiding in 
the capital of Macedonia, occupied himself with astro- 
logy and soothsaying; that he beguiled Olympias, the 
wife of King Philip, who was absent. He cunningly 
contrived to cohabit with her* showing himself to her 
in the figure of the god Ammon, as a serpent with two 
heads like rams* heads. So she became pregnant with 
Alex an d e r. Pli i ! i p, on r etn m i ng, w as about, to d l sol ai r 1 1 
the paternity, but then he dreamt that it was the child 
of the god Ammon, Thereupon he recognised the child 


CHAPTER VUL 


97 


as his T and sp'pkg, ,s M'an cannot oppose the gods.” The 
combination of the stars had shown to Necfcatiebusthat 
ho would die at the hands of his son. When then 
lie died at the hands of Alexander from a wound, in 
the neck, he recognised that he was his (Alexander's) 
father. 

The tradition of the Greeks is full of similar things. 
We shall relate similar subjects when speaking of the 
marriages of the Hindus. 

Now we return to onr subject. Regarding that part 
nt the nature of Zeus which has no connection with 
humanity* the Greeks say that he is Jupiter, the son of 
Saturn ; for Saturn alone is eternal, not having been 
bom* according to the philosophers of the Academy, as 
Galen ns says lit the Booh of Deduction. This is suffi- 
ciently proved by the book of A rates on the *L } tuv* 
for he begin a with the praise of Zeus: 

" Wcj mankind, do not leave Lrltu, nor can we da without, him : 
Of him tbu roads are full. 

And Hie lneeLmg-jjlaees of men. 

M il is mi lil towards them ; 

Ho prodneos for tliom whaL tbdy wish, and inoHau Hieui to work. 
Rem in ding them of the neoeadtifift ol HEe, 

He indicates to them the times favourable 
F«r digging and plbpghirjg fora good growth, 

Who has raised the ttnrl titan Lr» heaven. 

I'Lierefarc we humilmLu ourselves before him first and last. 1 " 

Aud then lie praises t be spiritual beings (the Abuses). 
I f you compare Greek theology with that of the Hindus, 
you will find that Brahman hs described in the same 
way as Zeus by Aratoa. 

The author of the commentary on the *b&Lv£iuv& of 
A rates maintains that he deviated from the custom of 
the poets of his time in beginning with the gods; that 
it was his intention to speak of the celestial sphere. 
Further, lie maizes reflections on the origin of Asclepius, 
like Galenas, and says: "Wo should like to know 

VOL. I g 


QlQtaUdlLE 
from 
A raEos. 


Uayc 48. 


90 A LEER UN PS INDIA , 

which Zeus A rates meant, the mystical or the physical 
one. For the poet K rates called the celestial sphere 
Zeit.% a ud like w i se > II t> n t er say 5 : 

1 A s pieces of snow are cut oJf fjrijm Zrit.¥, > !J 

A ratos calls the ether ami thu air ifeves in the passage : 

The roads and the meeting-places are full of him, and 
we all must, inhale him/’ 

Therefore the philosophers of the Stoa maintain that 
Zeus is the spirit which is dispersal in the EAaj, and 
similar to our souls, i.f!< the nature which rules every 
natural body. The author supposes that he is mild, 
since lie is the cause of the good ; therefore he is right 
in mainta inin g that he has not only created iuet I, but 
also the gods. 


( 99 ) 


CHAPTER IX. 

ON THE CASTES, CALLED COMUKS ” (VAKNa), AND ON 
THE CLASSES BELOW THEM, 

1 [■ a new order of tilings in political or social life is 
created by a man naturally ambitions of ruling., who 
by his character and capacity really deserves to be a 
ruler, a man of firm convictions and unshaken deter- 
mination, who even in times of reverses is supported by 
good luck, in so far as people then side with him in 
recognition of former merits of his, such an order is 
likely to become consolidated among those for whom 
it was created, and to continue as firm as the deeply 
rooted mountains. It will remain among them as a 
generally recognised rule in all generations through the 
course of time and the fight of ages. If, then, this new 
form of state or society rests in some degree on religion, 
these twins, state and religion, are in perfect harmony, 
and their union represents the highest development of 
human society, all that men can possibly desire. 

The kings of antiquity, who were industriously de- 
voted to the duties of their office, spent most of their 
care on the division of their subjects into different, 
classes and orders, which they tried to preserve from 
inter mixture and disorder. Therefore they forbade 
people of different classes to have intercourse with each 
other, and laid upon each class a particular kind of 
work or art and handicraft. They did not allow any- 
body to transgress the limits of his class, and even 


Throne and 
aJ tar. 


IOG 


ALBERUNVS INDIA . 


Of 

tla* wicient 


The four 
castas. 


I'ag'-i 4'j- 


punished those who would, not bo content, with their 
class. 

All tliis is well ill ti at rated by the history of the 
ancient Ohosroes (Klmsrau)* lor they had created great 
institutions of this kind, which could not be broken 
through by the special merits of any individual nor by 
bribery. When Ardashlr ben TJftfoak restored the Per- 
sian empire, he also restored the classes or castes of the 
population in the following way : — 

The first class were the knights and princes. 

The second class the monks, the fire-priests* and the 
lawyers* 

The third class the physicians, astronomers, and other 
men of science* 

The fourth class the husbandmen and artisans* 

And within these classes there were subdivisions, dis- 
tinct from each other, like the species within a genus. 
All institutions of this kind are like a pedigree* as long 
as their origin is remembered ; bnt when once their 
origin has been forgotten, they become, as it were, the 
stable property of the whole nation, nobody any more 
questioning its origin. And forgetting is the necessary 
result of any long period of time, of a long succession 
of centuries and generations. 

Among the Hindus institutions of tills kind abound. 
We Mu slims, of course , stand on tire ly on th e o tl ter side 
of the question 3 considering all men as equal, except in 
piety 5 and this is the greatest obstacle which prevents 
any approach or understanding between Hindus and 
Muslims. 

The Hindus call their castes varna f be. colours, and 
from a ge 1 1 eal ogi cal poin t o f v i e w th ey cal 1 tl 1 e 1 n jd i aka, 
he, births. These castes are from the very beginning 
only four. 

I. The highest caste are the Brahmana, of whom the 
books of the Hindus tell that they were created from 
the head of Brahman. And as Brahman is only another 


CHAPTER IX. lor 

name for the force called nature, and the head is the 
highest part of the animal body, the Brfthmana are the 
choice part of the whole genua. Therefore the Hindus 
consider them as the very best of mankind* 

II. The next caste are the Kshatriya, who were 
created , as they say, from the shoulders and hands of 
Brahman. Their degree is not much below that of the 
Brahma ji a, 

III* After them follow the Yai^ya, who were created 
from the thigh of Brahman, 

IV. The SMra* who were created from Ids feet* 
Between the latter tvvo classes there is no very 
great distance. Much, however, as these classes differ 
from each other, they live together in the same towns 
and villages, mixed together in the same houses and 
lodgings. 

After the S-udra follow the people called Antyaja. who 
render various kinds of services, who are not reckoned 
amongst any caste, but. only as members of a certain 
craft or profession* There are eight classes of them, 
who freely intermarry with each other, except t he fuller, 
shoemaker, and weaver, for no others would condescend 
to have anything to do with them. These eight guilds 
are the fuller, shoemaker, juggler, the basket and shield 
maker, the sailor, fisher man, the hunter of wild animals 
and of birds, and the weaver. The four castes do not 
live- together with them in one and the same place. 
These guilds live near the villages and towns of the 
four castes, but outside them. 

'The people called Hadg Doma (Bomba), Candida, 
and Badhat&u (sic) are not reckoned amongst any caste 
or guild h They are occupied with dirty work, like the 
cleansing of the villages and other services. They are 
considered as one sole olass ? and distinguished only by 
their occupations. Iu fact, they are considered like 
illegitimate children ; for according to general opinion 
they descend from n Sudta father and a Br&hruant 


Tjownnsitfi 

petc^k-. 


103 


ALBERUNPS INDIA . 


I )i (IVraji r, 
niscupati hvlfi 
nf the ca.tteg 
and ffutlda, 


CUBtlhULB of 

tbo BitjL- 
roina. 




mother as the children of fornication : therefore they 
are degraded outcast s. 

The Hindus give to every single- man of the four 
castes characteristic names, according to their occu- 
pations and modes of life. Mjj. the Enihinana is in 
general called by this name as long as he does his work 
staying at. home. When he is busy with the service 
of one fire, lie is called ishtin ; it' he serves three fires* he 
is called agnikotrin ; if he besides offers an offering to 
the fire, lie is called dikshita. And as it is with the 
Erahmaria., so is it also with the other castes, Of the 
classes beneath the castes, the Hftdi are the best spoken 
of, because they keep themselves free from everything 
unclean. iS'ext follow the Do in a, who play on the lute 
and sing, The still lower classes practise as a trade 
killing and the inflicting of judicial punishments. The 
worst of all are the Bad h atari, who not only devour the 
ilcsli of dead animals, but even of dogs and other 
beasts. 

Each of the four castes, when eating together, must 
form a group for themselves, one group not being 
allowed to comprise two men of different castes. If, 
further, in the group of the IMbmana there are two 
men who live at enmity with each other, and the seat 
of the one is by the side of the other, they make a 
barrier between the two seats by p lacing a board 
between them, or by spreading a piece of dress, or in 
some other way ; and if there is only a line drawn 
between them, they are considered as separated. Since 
it is forbidden to cat the remains of a me ah every single 
man must have his own food for himself ; for if any one 
of the party who are eating should take of the food from 
one and the same plate, that which remains in the plate 
becomes, after the first eater has taken part, to him who 
wants to take as the second, the remains of the meal, 
and such is forbidden. 

Such its the condition of the four castes. Arjuna 


CHAPTER IX. 


[03 

tmkvd about the mature of the four castes and what 
must be their moral qualities whereupon Yfcmdeva 
answered : 

"The Brah maria must have an ample intellect, a 
quiet heart, truthful speech, much patience; he must, 
be master of bis senses, a lover of justice, of evident 
purity, always directed upon worship* entirely boot 
upon religion, 

"The Kshatriya must fill the hearts with terror, must 
be brave and high-minded, must have ready speech and 
a liberal hand, not minding dangers, only intent upon 
carrying the great tasks of his calling to a happy end.. 

"The Vaisya is to occupy himself with agriculture, 
with the acquisition of cattle* and with trade. 

"The Sudra is to endeavour to render services and 
attention to each of the preceding classes, In order to 
make himself liked by them. 

il If cacti member of these castes adheres to his cus- 
toms and usages, he will obtain the happiness lie wishes 
for, supposing that ho is not negligent in the ’worship of 
God, not forgetting to remember him in his most im- 
portant avocations. But if anybody wants to quit the 
works and duties oi Ids caste and adopt those of another 
caste, even if it would bring a certain honour to the 
latter, it is a sin* because it is a transgression of the 
rule, ?J 

Further, Vasudeva Speaks, inspiring him with courage 
to fight the enemy : " Dost thou not know, 0 man with 
the long arm, that thou art a Kshatriya ; that thy race 
has been created brave, to rush boldly to the charge* 
to care little for the vicissitudes of time* never to give, 
way whenever their soul has a foreboding of coming 
misfortune? for only thereby is the reward to be ob- 
tained, If he conquers* he obtains power and good 
fortune If ho perishes, he obtains paradise and bliss. 
Besides, thon si 10 west weakness in the presence of the 
enemy* and sec me at melancholy at the prospect of 


ALBERUNFS INDIA. 


M ftj id 

th* vnvl^na 
crmi,**. 


104 

killing this host j but it will be infinitely worse if thy 
name will spread as that of a timid, cowardly man, that 
thy reputation among the heroes and the experienced 
warriors will be gone, that thou wilt be out. of their 
sight, and thy name no longer be remembered among 
them. I do not know a worse punishment than such 
a state. Death is better than to expose thyself to the 
consequences of ignominy. If, therefore, God has 
ordered thee to light, if he has deigned to confer upon 
thy caste the task of fighting 1 and has created thee for 
it, cany out his order and perform his will with a 
determination which, is free from any desire, so that 
thy action be exclusively devoted to him,” 

Hindus differ among them selves as to which of these 
castes. is capable of attaining to 1 iteration ; f or, according 
to some, only the Hrn.hmana and Kshalriya are capable 
of it, since the others cannot learn the Veda, whilst 
according to the Hindu philosophers, liberation is 
common to all castes and to the whole human race, it 
their intention of obtaining it is perfect* This view 
is based on the saying of Vyasn : Li Learn to know 
the twenty -five things thoroughly. Then you way 
follow whatever religion you like; yon will no doubt 
be liberated/' This view is also based on the fact 
that V as ude v a was a descendant of a Bud fa family, 
and also on the following saying of his, which ho 
ad dre ss ed to Arj n n a : ‘ L (i od d ist rib u te s recon 1 p en se 
without injustice and without partiality. Ha reckons 
the good as bad if people in doing good forget him ; lie 
reckons the bad as good if people in doing bad remem- 
ber him and do not forget him, whether these people be 
V iu s y a 0 r B ft d ra or wo m en . 1 1 ow m u ch mo re w i 1 1 tl lis 
bo the case when they are 'Brfthmana or KshafcriyaV 




( ) 


CHAPTER X. 

ON THE BOUNCE OP TIIEIlt RELIGIOUS AND ClYlL LAW, 
ON PROPHETS, AM i ON TIIE QUESTION WHETHER 
SINGLE LAWS. CAN RE ABROGATED OR NOT. 

The ancient Greeks received their religions and civil 
laws from sages among them who were called to the 
work, and of whom their conn try men believed that 
they received divine help, tike Solon, Draco, Pythagoras, 
Minos, and others. Also their kings did the same ■ for 
Mian os (sio), when ruling over the islands of the sea 
and over the Cretans about two hundred years after 
Moses,' gave them laws, pretending to have received 
them from Zens. About the same time also Minos (sic) 
gave his laws. 

At the time of Darius L_ k the successor of Cyrus, the 
Romans sent messengers to the Athenians, and received 
from them the laws in twelve books, under which they 
lived till the rule of Pompilius (Numa). This king 
gave them new laws; he assigned to the year twelve 
months, whilst up to that time it bad only bad ten 
months. It ap \ i ears tl l at h e i n t rod 1 1 ce d hi s in n o vatio n s 
against the will of the Romans, for he ordered them to 
use as instruments of barter in commerce pieces of 
pottery and hides instead of silver, which seems on 
his paid, tn betray a certain anger against rebellious 
subjects. 

In the first chapter of the Book of Lows of Plato, the 
Athenian stranger says : “Who do you think it ns the 


L;ivr anil 
ral igiem 
Among the 
Greeks 
L'cmmdud l.iy 
tllcLr E4LLT^S. 


Qi i o Lie iiHia 
fr-om Pliitc-'t 
La its. 


AD RERUN PS INDIA. 


106 

first who gave laws to you ? Was he an angel or a man ? ” 
The man of Cnossus said: <f He was an angel. In 
truth, with us it was Zens, but with the Lacedemonians, 
as they maintain, the legislator was Apollo.” 

Further, he says in the same chapter: “ It is the 
duty of the legislator, if he comes from God, to make 
the acquisition of the greatest virtues and of the highest 
justice the object of his legislation/' 

He describes the laws of the Cretans as rendering 
perfect the happiness of those who make the proper 
use of them, because by them they acquire all the 
human good which is dependent upon the divine good. 

The Athenian says in the second chapter of the 
same book: “The gods, pitying mankind as born for 
trouble, instituted for them feasts to the gods, the 
Muses, Apollo the ruler of the Muses, and to Dionysos, 
who gave men wine as a remedy against the bitterness 
of old ago, that old men should again be young by 
forgetting sadness, and by bringing back the character 
of the soul from the state of affliction to the state of 
soundness.” 

Further he says: 14 They have given to men by in- 
spiration the arrangements for dancing, and the equally 
weighed rhythm as a reward for fatigues, and that they 
may become accustomed to live together with them in 
feasts and joy. Therefore they call one kind of their 
music prtu-NSt with an implied allusion to the prayers 
to the gods.” 

Such was the- case with the Greeks, and it is precisely 
the same with the Hindus. For they believe that their 
religious law at id its single precepts derive their origin 
from Rishis, their sages, the pillars of their religion, 
and not from the prophet, i.e t Xurilyana, who, when 
coming into this world, appears in some human figure. 
Tbit he only comes in order to cut away some evil 
matter which threatens the world, or to set the world 
ri ght agai n wl 1 e n an y t hi n g h as gon e w r on g t F u r \h er, n r> 


CHAPTER X. 


107 


law can be exchanged or replaced by another, for they 
use the laws simply as they find them. Therefore they 
can dispense with prophets, as far as law and worship 
are concerned, though in other affairs of the creation 
they sometimes want them. 

As for the question of the abrogation of laws, it 
seems that this is not impossible with the Hindus, for 
they say that, many things which are now forbidden 
were allowed before the coming of Yasiideva, e+g* the 
flesli of cows. Such changes are necessitated by the 
change of the nature of man, and by their being too 
feeble to bear the whole burden of their duties. To 
these changes also belong the changes of the victtri- 
vionml system and of the theory of descent. Tor in 
former times there were three modes of determining 
descent or relationship : 

1. The child born to a man by his legitimate wife is 
the child of the father, as is the custom with us and 
with the Hindus, 

2. If a man marries a woman and has a child by her j 
ii ! } further, the marriage-contract stipulates that the 
children of the woman will belong to her father, the 
child is considered as the child of its grandfather who 
made that stipulation, and not as the child of its father 
who engendered it. 

3. If a stranger lias a child by a married woman, the 
child belongs to her husband, since the wife being, as it 
were, the soil 111 which the child has grown, is the pro- 
perty of the husband, a L ways presupposing that the 
sowing, i.e. the cohabitation, tabes place with his con- 
sent* 

According to this principle, Hindu was considered as 
the son of Santa im ; for this king had been cursed by 
an anchorite, and in consequence was unable to cohabit 
with his wives, which was the more provoking to him 
as he had not yet any children. Now he asked Yy&sa, 
the son of Taras a ra, to procreate for him children from 


WktttW 
tows maj lie 
abnegated or 
naU 


Different 

matrimonial 

^sterns. 


The- story of 
]VLmhi air] 
Vyiaa. 


A LEER UN PS INDIA. 


108 


Birth. af 
V J;'l Hii . 


WwtVUS 
kllids <if 

IIIIHTI jtfti 

with TjIi*- 
taisa rmd 
Arabs, 


Ilia wives 111 his place, Panda sent him one, but she 
was afraid of him when he cohabited with her* and 
trembled, in eon sequence of which she conceived a 
sickly child of yellow hue. Then the king sent him a 
second woman ; she* too, felt much, reverence for him, 
and wrapped herself up in her veil, and in consequence 
she gave birth to Dhriturushtra, who was blind and 
unhealthy. Lastly, he sent him a third woman, whom 
he enjoined to put aside all fear and reverence with 
regard to the saint. Laughing and in high spirits, she 
went in to him, and conceived from Mm a child of 
moon -like beauty* who excelled all men in boldness and 
cunning. 

The four sons of Land 11 had one wife in common, 
who stayed one month with each of them alternately. 
In the books of the Hindus it is told that Para^ara, the 
hermit, one day travelled in a boat in which there was 
also a daughter of the boatman. He fell in love with 
her, tried to seduce her* and finally she yielded; but 
there was nothing on the bank of the river to hide 
them from the looks of the people. However* instan- 
taneously there grew a tamarisk-tree to facilitate their 
purpose. How he cohabited, with her behind the tama- 
risk, and made her conceive, whereupon she became 
pregnant with this his excellent son Yyasa. 

Ah these customs have now been abolished and ab- 
rogated, and therefore we may infer from their tradi- 
tion that in principle the abrogation of u law is tdlowabh. 

As regards unnatural kinds of marriage, we must 
state that such exist still in our time, as they also 
existed in the- times of Arab heathendom; for the 
people inhabiting the mountains stretching from the 
region of Panchi r into the neighbourhood of Kashmir 
live under the rule that several brothers have one wife 
in corn man, Among the heathen Arabs* too, marriage 
was of different kinds : — 

i + A11 Arab ordered his wife to be sent to a certain 




CHAPTER X . 


1 09 

man to demand sexual intercourse wii.lt him j then lie 
abstained from her during the whole time of her preg- 
nancy, since he wished, to have from her a generous 
offspring. This is identical with the third kind of 
marriage among the Hindus. 

2 * A second kind was this, that the one Arab said to 
the other, “Cede me your wife, and I will cede you 
mine/ 5 and thus they exchanged their wives. 

3. A third kind is this, that several men cohabited 
with one wife. When, then, she gave birth to a child, 
she declared who was the father 5 and if she did not 
know it, the fortune-tellers had to know it. 

4. The Nik&k-elm.akl (= m.ah^inwnm-m. awsum), i.e. 
when a man married the widow of his father or of his 
son, the child of such a marriage was called daizan. 
This is nearly the same as a certain Jewish marriage, 
for the Jews have the law that a man must marry the 
widow of his brother, if the latter has not left children , 
and create a line of descent for Ms deceased brother - 
and the offspring is considered as that of the deceased 
man, not as that of the real father. Thereby they want 
to prevent his memory dying out in the world. In 
Hebrew they call a man who is married in this way 
YdbAam, 

The re w as a si milar i n s t i t u t io n among the M agi an s . 
In the book of Tamar, the great hevhadJt, addressed to 
Padaslivur-girsliahj as an answer to his attacks on 
Ardashir the sun of BUhak, we find a description of the 
institution of a man’s being married as the substitute 
for another man, which existed among the Persians. 
If a man dies without leaving male offspring, people 
are to examine the case. If he leaves a wife, they 
marry her to his nearest relative. If he does not leave 
a wife, they marry his daughter or the nearest related 
woman to the nearest related male of the family. 
If there is 00 woman of his family left, they woo by 
means of the money of the deceased a woman for his 


niurriiisra 

jinmlltf Lhe 

umlaut 

Iranians, 


TO 


A LB E RUN PS INDIA. 


family, and marry her to some male relative. The 
child of such a marriage is considered as the offspring 
of the deceased* 

Whoever neglects this duly and does not fulfil it, 
kills innumerable souls, since he cuts of I the progeny 
and the name of the deceased to all eternity. 

We have here given an account of these things in 
older that the reader may learn by the comparative 
treatment of the subject how much superior the insti- 
tutions of Islam are, and how much more plainly this 
contrast brings out all customs and usages, differing 
from those of Islam, in their essential foulness* 


( III ) 


CHAPTEE XI. 

A LOUT THE EKGlNNINfi OF IDOL-WOli&lJTP, AND A 
BKBORJP^rOK OF THE INDIVIDUAL IDOLS. 

It is well known that the popular mind leans towards nr^h-iof 

. iir lilol-wor&l 

tlu-i sensible world, and lias an aversion to the world of mthe 
abstract thought which is only understood by highly oilman, 
educated people, of whom in every time and every 
place tli ere are only few, And as common people will 
only acquiesce in pictorial representations, many of the 
leaders of religious communities have so far deviated 
from the right path as to give such imagery in their 
books and houses of worship, like 'the Jews and Chris- 
tians, and, more than all, the M an ich scans. These 

words of mine would at once receive a sufficient illus- 
tration if, for example, a picture of tine Prophet were 
made, or of Mekka and the Ka ha. and were shown to 
an uneducated man or woman. Their joy in looking 
at the thing would bring them to kiss the picture, to 
rub their checks against it, and to roll themselves in 
the dust before it, as if they were seeing not the picture, 
but the original, and were in this way, as if they were 
present in the holy places, performing the rites of pil- 
grimage, the great and the small ones. 

This is the cause which leads to the manufacture of 
idols, monuments in honour of certain much venerated 
persons, prophets, sages, angels, destined to keep alive 
their memory when they arc absent or dead, to create 
for them a lasting place of grateful veneration in the 
hearts of men when they die. But when much time 


ALB HR V NFS INDIA, 


54. 


SI im V of 
Horn u in* 
and rtcinmj. 


IrloUivfiT- 
k!s]|-j as. vc- 

aUictad to 
tha lew 
classes of 
people. 


1 13 

passes by after the setting up of the monument, genera- 
tions ami centuries, its origin is forgotten, it becomes a 
matter of custom, and its veneration a rule for general 
practice. This being deeply rooted in the nature of 
man, the legislators of antiquity tried to influence them 
from this weak point of theirs. Therefore they made 
the veneration of pictures and similar monuments ob- 
ligatory on them, as is recounted in historic records, 
both for the times before and after the Deluge. Some 
people even pretend to know that all mankind, before 
God sent them his prophets, were one large idolatrous 
body. 

The followers of the Thora fix the beginning of ido- 
latry in the days of Herflgh, the great-grandfather of 
Abraham. The Romans have, regarding this question, 
the following tradition: — Romulus and Rom amis (3), 
the two brothers from the country of the Franks, on 
having ascended the throne, built the city of Rome. 
Then Romulus killed his brother, and the consequence 
was a long succession of intestine troubles and wars. 
Finally* Romulus humiliated himself, and then he 
dreamt that there would only be peace on condition 
tli at lie placed his brother on the throne. Now he got 
a golden image made of him, placed it at his side, and 
henceforward he used to say, (s We (not I) have ordered 
thus and thus, 1 " which since has become the general 
use of kings. Thereupon the troubles subsided. He 
founded a feast and a play to amuse and to gain over 
those who bore him ill-will on account of the murder 
of his brother* Resides, lie erected, a monument to the 
sun, consisting of four images on four horses, the green 
one for the earth, the blue for the water, the red for the 
fire, and the white for the air. This monument is still 
in Romo ill our days. 

Since, however, here we have to explain the system and 
the theories of the Hindus on the subject, we shall now 
mention their ludicrous views: but we declare at once 


CHAPTER XL 


113 

that they arc held only by the common nn educated 
people. For those who march on the path to liberation^ 
or those who study philosophy and theology, and who 
desire abstract truth which they call sd.ra, are entirely 
free from worshipping anything but God alone, and 
would never dream of worshipping an image; manufac- 
tured to represent him. A tradition illustrative of 
this is that which San n aka told the king Pariksha in 
these words 

There was once a Icing called Ambarisha, who had 
obtained an empire as large as lie had wished for. But 
afterwards he came to like- it no longer ; he retired from 
the world t and exclusively occupied himself with wor- 
shipping and praising God for a long time. Finally, 
God appeared to him iu the shape of Indra, the prince 
of the angels, riding on an elephant. He spoke to the 
king: “Demand whatever you like, and 1 will give it 
yon/' 

The king answered: <f I rejoice in seeing fbee, and 
I am thankful for the good fortune and help thou 
hast given ; but 1 do not demand anything from thee, 
but only from him who created thee.” 

India said : “ Thy object of worship is to receive it 
noble reward . It salisa, therefore , your obj ect , an d accept 
the reward from him from whom hitherto you have 
obtained your wishes, and do not pick and choose, 
saying, 4 Not from thee, but from another/ ” 

The king answered : “ The earth has fallen to my lot, 
but I do not care for alt that is in it. The object of 
my worship is to see the Lord, and that thou can at not 
give me. Why, therefore, should I demand the fulfil- 
ment of my desire- from thee ? ” 

India said : “The whole world and whoever is upon 
it are obedient to me. Who are you that yon dare to 
oppose me ? ” 

The king answered: “I, too, hoar and obey, but J 
worship him from whom thou hast received this power, 

VOL. L H 


Story of 
King /I. m - 
fosrtiiha -imd 
Iiulrft. 


14 


A LB B RUN VS INDIA. 


who is the lard of the universe, who has protected thee 
against the attacks of the two kings, Bali and Hiran- 
yaksha, Therefore let me do as I like, and turn away 
front me with my farewell greeting." 

Indra said : “If you will absolutely oppose me, I will 
kill you and annihilate you.” 

The king answered: “People say that happiness is 
envied, but not so misfortune. Ha who retires from 
the world is envied by the angels, and therefore they 
will try to lead him astray. I am one of those who 
have retired from the world and entirely devoted them- 
selves to worship, and T shall not give it tip as long as 
5 r, I live. I do not know myself to be guilty of a crime 
for which I should deserve to be killed by thee. If 
thon killest me without any offence on my part, it is 
thy concern. What dost thou want from me V If my 
thoughts are entirely devoted to God, and nothing else 
is blended with them, thou art not able to do me any 
harm. Sufficient for me is the worship with which I 
am occupied, and now I return to it.” 

As the king now went, on worshipping, the Lord 
appeared to him in the shape of a man of the grey 
lotus colour, riding on a bird called Gam da. holding in 
one of the four hands the iaukha, a sea-shell which 
people blow when riding on elephants; in the second 
hand the cakra f a round, cutting, orbicular weapon, 
which cuts everything it hits right through; in the 
third au amulet, and in the fourth paama t i r e, the red 
lotus. When the king saw him, he shuddered from 
reverence, prostrated himself and uttered many praises. 
Thu Lord quieted his terrified mind and promised him 
that he should obtain everything he wished for. The 
king spoke: “ f had obtained an empire which nobody 
disputed with me; I was in conditions of life not 
troubled by sorrow or sickness. It was as if the 
whole world belonged to me. But then I turned away 
from it, after I had understood that the good of the 


CHAPTER XT. 


US 

world is really bad in the end. I do not wish for any- 
thing except what I now have. The only thing I now 
wish for is to be liberated from this fetter/ 1 

The Lord spoke: fii Tliai: you will obtain by keeping 
aloof from the world, by being alone* by uninterrupted 
meditation, and by restraining your senses to yourself." 

The king spoke : Supposing that I am able to do 
so through that sanctity which the Lord has deigned 
to bestow upon me, how should any other man be able 
to do so ? for man wants eating and clothing, which 
connects him with the world. How is he to think of 
anything else/” 

The Lord spoke : f£ Occupy yourself with your empire 
in as straightforward and prudent a way as possible: 
turn your thoughts upon me when you are engaged in 
civilising the world and protecting its inhabitants, in 
giving alms, and in everything you do. And if you are 
overpowered by human forgetfulness, make to yourself 
an image like that in which you see me; offer to it 
perfumes and flowers, and make it a memorial of me, 
so that you may not forget me. If you are in sorrow, 
think of mv ; if you speak, speak in my name; if you 
act, act fur me/ 

The king spoke: “Now I know what I have to do 
in general* but honour me further by instructing me 
In the details. 1 ’ 

The Lord spoke: “ That f have done already, I have 
inspired your judge Yasishtha with all that is required. 
Therefore rely upon him in all questions.” 

Then the figure disappeared from his sight* The 
king returned into his residence and did as he had 
been ordered. 

From that time, the Hindus say, people make idols, 
some with four hands like the appearance we have 
described, others with two hands, as the story and 
description require, and conformably to the being which 
is to he represented- 


ALBERUNFS INDIA , 


1}i a ¥i>ia£: 
I rum tl i ij 
Amo, 


P^e 36 . 


Tl 1 c iilol --i 
Til ultin Cull- 
ed AdiL va. 


] 1 6 

Another story of theirs is the following : — Brahman 
hat! a son called Naradn, who had no other desire hut 
that of seeing flier- Lord. It was his custom, when lie 
walked about, to hold a stick. If he threw it down, 
it became a serpent, and he was able to do miracles 
with it, lie never went without it. One day being 
engrossed in meditation on the object of his hopes, ho 
saw a lire from afar. lie went towards it, ami then a 
voice spoke to him out of the fire : “ What you demand 
and wish is impossible. You cannot soe me save 
thus." When lie looked in that direction, he saw a 
fiery appearance in something like human shape* 
Henceforward it has been the custom to erect idols of 
certain shapes, 

A famous idol of theirs was that of Multan, dedicated 
to the sun, and therefore called A ditycL It was of wood 
and covered with red Cordovan leather ; in its two eyes 
were two red rubies. It is said to have been made in 
the last Kritayuga, Suppose that it was made in the 
very end of Kritayuga, the time which has since elapsed 
amounts to 216432 years- When Muhammad Ibn 
Alku sin 1 Ibn Ahmmabbib conquered Multan, he in- 
quired how the town had become m very nourishing 
and so many treasures had there been accumulated, and 
then he found out that this idol was the cause, for 
there came pilgrims from all sides to visit it. There- 
fore he thought it best to have the idol where it was, 
but he Jin ug a piece of cow's- flesh on its neck by way 
of mockery* On the same place a mosque w T as built. 
When then the Karmatians occupied Mult-fin , Jalani 
Ibn Shat ban, the usurper, broke the idol into pieces 
and killed its priests. He made his mansion, which 
was a castle built of brick on an elevated place, the 
mosque instead of the old mosque, which lie ordered to 
be shut from hatred against anything that had been, 
done under the dynasty of the Caliphs of the house of 
'Umayya. When afterwards the blessed Prince Mah- 


CHAPTER XL 


1 17 

mud swept away their rule from those countries, lie 
made again the old mosque the place of the Friday- 
worship, and the second one was left to decay. At 
present it is only a barn -floor, where bunches of Hi null 
(Lavjsoiiia inerrais) are bound together. 

If we now subtract from the above-mentioned num- 
ber of years the hundreds, tens, and units, ie. the 432 
years, us a kind of arbitrary equivalent for the sum of 
about 100 years, by which the rise of the l£armalians 
preceded our time, we get as the remainder 216,000 
years for the time of the end of the Kritayuga, and 
about the epoch of the era of the Hijra. How, then, 
con Id wood have lasted such a length of time, and 
particularly in a place where the air and the soil are 
rather wet ? God knows best ! 

The oitv of Taneshar is highly venerated by the 
Hindus. The idol of that place is called Cahrtuv&min, 
ic. the owner of the mkm, a weapon which we have 
already described (page 1 14). It is of bronze, and is 
nearly the size of a man. It is now lying in the hippo- 
drome in Ghazna, together with the Lord of Sow width, 
which is a representation of the penis of Mahadeva, 
c al I ed Linga. Of Soman k fci t we sh al 1 h ereaf ter spe ak i n 
the proper place. This Oakrasvuinin is said to have 
been made in the time of Bhfirata as a memorial of wars 
connected with this name. 

In Inner Kashmir, about two or three days' journey 
f r om t h e cap ital i n th e d ire ct ion tow ard s tb e m 0 u 1 1 tai 1 ] s 
of Holer, there is a wooden idol called 8 &mda f which is 
much venerated and frequented by pilgrims. 

We shall now communicate a whole chapter from the 
book Samhi&d relating to the construction of idols, 
which will help the student thoroughly to comprehend 
the present subject. 

Varuhanhhiru says: “If the figure is made to repre- 
sent llama the son of DaJaratlia* or Bali the son of 
Virocana, give it the height of 120 digits,” i.e. of idol 


Thfc idol uf 

Tfturchir 

taller] 

Oak rv 
hvAiii t tl. 


The idol 
&\nula. hi 
Kashmir, 


Quotation 
from the 
BamhiUL of 
YarAhami- 
hit's. 


ALBER OKI'S INDIA. 


i iZ 

digits, which must be reduced by one -tenth to become 
common digits, in this case 108, 

“ To the idol of Vishnu give eight hands, or four, or 
two, and on the left side under the breast give him the 
figure of the woman Sri. If you give him eight hands, 
place in the right hands a sword, a club of gold or iron, 
an arrow, and make the fourth hand as if it were- draw- 
s?- ing water ; in the left hands give him a shield , a bow, a 
cakra, arid a conch. 

“IT you give him four hands, omit the bow and the 
arrow, the sword and shield. 

“If you give him two hands, let the right hand be 
drawing water, the left lidding a couch, 

“ If the figure is to represent iialadeva, the brother of 
Nil ray an a, put earrings into his ears, and give him eyes 
of a drunken man, 

“If you make both figures, Nurlyana and Baladeva, 
join with them their sister jihagavoti (JJurgl — Eku- 
nan&i), her left hand resting on her hip a little away 
from the side, and her right hand holding a lotus. 

fi ; I f you i n ake her Jonr-h a 1 1 d e d , place i u tl i e r i gh t, h m id k 
a rosary and a hand drawing water ; in the left hands, a 
book and a lotus. 

u If yon make her eight-handed, place in the left bands 
the krrnviudalv.-, ix, a pot, a lotas, bow and boob ; in the 
right hands, a rosary, a mirror, an arrow, and a water- 
drawing hand. 

HC If the figure is to represent Samba* the son of Vishnu, 
put only a club in his right hand. If it is to represent 
Pi-adyumna, the son of Vishnu, place in his right band 
an arrow, In his left hand a bow. And if you make 
their two wives, place in their right hand a sword, in 
the left a buckler, 

f< The idol of Brahman has four faces towards the foil. r 
sides, and is seated on a lotus. 

u The idol of Skanda, the son of MaMdeya, is a boy 
riding on a peacock, his hand holding a iakti, a weapon 


C&APTER AT* 


1 19 

like a double-edged sword, which has hi the middle a 
pestle like that of a mortar. 

- c The idol In dr a holds in its band a weapon called 
vujra of diamond. It has a similar handle to the Soldi, 
but on each side it has two swords which join at the 
handle. On Ins front place a third eye, and make him 
ride on a white elephant with four tusks, 

“ likewise make on the front of the idol of Mahadeva 
a third eye right above, 011 his head a crescent, in his 
hand a weapon called St Ua, similar to the club but with 
three branches, arid a sword ; and let. his left hand bold 
his wife Gatin* the daughter of 11 im a van t, whom he 
presses to his bosom from the side, 

il To the idol Jinn, Buddha, give a face and limbs as 
beautiful as possible, make the lines in the palms of Ids 
hands and feet like a lotus, and represent him seated 
on a lotus; give him grey hair, and represent him with 
a placid expression, as if he were the father of creation. 

“If you make Arhmit* the figure of another body of 
Buddha, represent him as a naked youth with a fine 
face, beau! if 1.1], whose hands reach down to the knees, 
with the figure of 8rl, his wife, under the left breast* 
iL The idol of Koyanta* the son of the sun, rides cm a 
horse like a huntsman. 

“The idol of Yimig the angel of death, rides on a 
buffalo, and holds a club in his hand. 

The idol of Kubera, the treasurer, wears a crown, has 
a big stomach ami wide hips, and is riding on a man* 

“The idol of the sun lias a red face like the pith of 
the red lotus, beams like a diamond* lias protruding 
limbs* rings in the oars, the neck adorned with pearls 
which hang down over the breast, wears a crown of 
several compartments, holds in his hands two lotuses* 
and is clad in the dress of the Northerners which reaches 
down to the ankle. 

“If yo u repr esen t the S e ven M 0 th er s f r epres en t se v oral ^ k e 
of them together in one figure* B rah muni with four faces 


120 


ALBERUNFS INDIA , 


towards the four directions, K acinar i with six faces, 
Vai&lmavi with four h antis, Vilrahi with a hog's head 
on a human body, Ind rani with many eyes and a club 
in her hand, Bhagavati (Durga) sitting as people 
generally sit, Ciimunda ngly t with protruding teeth 
and a slim waist. Further join with them the sons of 
Mahadeva, KshetrapMa with bristling hair, a sour face, 
and an ugly figure, but Yiniyaka with an elephant’s 
head on a human body, with four hands, as we have 
heretofore described.” 

The worshippers of these idols kill sheep and buffaloes 
with axes (ktd&rc f), that they may nourish themselves 
with their blood. All Idols are constructed according to 
certain measures determined by idol -fingers for every 
single limb, but. sometimes they differ regarding the 
measure of a limb. If the artist keeps the rigid 
measure and does not make anything too large nor too 
small, lie is free from sin, and is sure that the being 
which he represented will not visit, him with any 
mishap. “If he makes the idol one cubit high and 
together with the throne two cubits, he will obtain 
health and wealth. If he makes it higher still, he will 
be praised. 

“ lint he must, know that making the idol too large, 
especially that of the ft mi, will hurt the ruler, and 
making it too small will hurt the artist, if he gives It 
a thin belly, this helps and furthers the famine in the 
country \ if he gives it a lean belly* this ruins property. 

“If the hand of the artist slips so as to produce some- 
thing like a wound, he will have a wound in his own 
body which will kill him. 

“ If it is not completely even on both sides, so that 
the one shoulder is higher than the other, his wife will 
perish. 

“If he turns the eye upward, he will be blind for 
lifetime; if he turns it downward, he will have many 
troubles and sorrows/’ 


CHAPTER XL 


121 

If the statue is mad© of some precious stone, it. is 
better than if it were made of wood, and wood is "better 
than day. t: The benefits of a statue of precious stone 
will bo common to all the men and women of the 
empire. A golden statue will bring power to him who 
erected it, a statue of silver will bring him renown, one 
of bronze will bring him an increase of his rule, one of 
stone the acquisition of landed property.” 

The Hindus honour their idols on account of those 
who erected them, not on account of the material of 
which they are made. We have already mentioned 
that the idol of Multan was of wood. J$ r g. the linga 
which Rama erected when he hud finished the war with 
the demons was of sand, which lie had heaped np with 
his own hand. But then it became petrified all at once, 
since the astrologically correct moment for the erecting 
of the monument fell before the moment when the 
workmen bad finished the cutting of the stone munii- 
ment which Hama originally had ordered. Regarding 
the building of the temple and its peristyle, the cutting 
of the trees of four different kinds, the astrological 
determination of the favourable moment for the erec- 
tion, the celebration of the rites due on such an occa- 
sion, regarding all this Rama gave very long and tedious 
instructions, Further, he ordered that servants and 
priests to minister to the idols should be nominated 
from different classes of the people, ‘‘To the idol of 
Vishnu are devoted the class called Blutgavata ; to the 
idol of the Sun, the Mag a, i.e. the Mag urns ■ to the idol 
of M n.hude va, a class of saints, anchorites with long 
hair, who cover their skin with ashes, hang on their 
persons the bones of dead people, and swim in the 
pools. The Brahman a arc devoted to the Eight rage =;ri. 
Mothers, the Shamanians to Buddha, to Arhant the 
class called JS T agna r On the whole, to each idol certain 
people are devoted who constructed if;, for those know 
best how to serve it,” 


122 


A LB ER UNI'S INDIA . 


Q h ?i>t-u6iona 

N i m i 
K3.i-jvvjci.gr 
thill, GijiL if. 
nr it U V ].M.‘ 
Cirtilbuiidtd 
with tSiii 
idal*. 


Our object iii mentioning all this mad raving w&b to 
teach tlic reader the accurate description oi' mi idol, if 
he happens to see one, and to illustrate what we have 
said before, that such idols are erected only for unedu- 
cated low-class people of little understanding ; that the 
Hindus never made an idol of any supernatural being, 
much less of God ; and, lastly, to show how the crowd 
is kept in thraldom by all kinds of priestly tricks and 
deceits. Therefore the book Gild says: “Many people 
try to approach rue in their aspirations through some- 
thing which is different from me; they try to insinuate 
thorn selves into my favour by giving alms, praise, and 
prayer to something besides me. J, however, confirm 
and help them in all these doings of theirs, and make 
them attain the object of their wishes, because I am 
able to dispense with them/* 

Tn the same book Vasudova speaks to Arjima : a Do 
you not see that most of those who wish for something 
address themselves in offering ami worshipping to the 
several classes of spiritual h:uu/s } and to the sun, moon, 
and other celestial bodies ? If now God does not dis- 
appoint their hopes, though he in no way stands in 
need oi' their worship, if lie even gives them more than 
they asked for, and if he gives them their wishes in 
such a way as though they were receiving thorn from 
that to which they had addressed their prayers — viz. 
tba idol — they will proceed to worship those whom 
they address, because they have not learned to know 
him, whilst ke } by admitting this kind of intermedia- 
tion T carries their affairs to the desired end. But that 
which is obtained by desires and intermediation is not 
lasting, since it is only as much as is deserved for any 
particular merit- Only that is lasting which is obtained 
from God alone, when people arc disgusted with old 
age. death, and birth (and desire to be delivered there- 
from by Mohska)'* 

This is what V asudeva says. When the ignorant crowd 


CHAPTER XL 


123 


get a piece of good luck by accident or something at 
winch they had aimed^ and when with this some- of the 
preconcerted tricks of the priests are brought into con- 
nectlonj the darkness in which they live increases 
vastly, not their intelligence, They will rush to these 
figure of idols, maltreating their own figures before 
them by shedding their own blood and mutilating their 
own bodies. 

The ancient Greeks, also, considered the idols as 
mediators between themselves and the First Came, and 
worshipped them under the names of the stars and the 
highest substances, For tb ey deseri bed the First ( .huse T 
not with positive, but only with negative predicates, 
since they considered it too high to be described by 
human qualities, and since they wanted to describe it 
as free from any imperfection* Therefore they could 
not address it in worship. 

When the heathen Arabs had imported into their 
country idols from Syria, they also worshipped them, 
hoping that they would intercede for them with God, 

Plato says in the fourth chapter of the Book of Laics : 
i£ It is necessary to any one who gives perfect honours 
(to the gods) that he should take trouble with the 
mystery of the gods and Bakina t, and that he should 
not make special Idols masters over the ancestral gods. 
Further, it is the greatest duty to give honours as much 
as possible to the parents while they live.” 

By mystery Plat© means a special kind of dmMon. 
The word Is much used among the Babkins of llarrfm, 
the ditalbtic Man ich terms, and the theologians of the 
Hindus-. 

Galen 11 s says in the book JJc Indole Aninm ; “At 
the time of the Emperor Com mod as, between 500-510 
years after Alexander, two men went to an idol-mer- 
chant and bargained with him for an idol of Hermes, 
The one wanted to erect it in a temple as a memorial 
of Hermes, the other wanted to erect it on a tomb as a 


124 


ALBERUNPS INDIA . 


memorial of the deceased, However, they could not 
settle the business with the merchant, and so they 
po stponed it u n ti 1 1- h e f ol 1 owing rl ay, r J h e idol-ni erch an t 
dreamt the following night that the idol addressed Mm 
and spoke to him ; ' 0 excellent man ! I am thy work. 
I have received through the work of thy hands a figure 
which is thought to be the figure of a star. Now I am 
no longer a stone, as people called me heretofore ; I am 
now known as Mercury. At present it stands in thy 
hands to make me either a memorial of something im- 
perishable or of something that has perished already.’ ” 

There is a treatise of Aristotle in which lie answers 
certain questions of the Brahmins which Alexander had 
sent kirn. There he says : Si If you maintain that some 
Greeks have fabled that the idols speak, that the people 
offer to them and think them to be spiritual beings, of 
all this we have no knowledge, and we cannot give a 
sentence on a subject we do not know/* In these words 
he rises high above the class of fools and uneducated 
people, and he indicates by them that he does not 
occupy himself with such things. It is evident that 
the first cause of idolatry was the desire of commemo- 
rating the dead and of consoling the living ; but on this 
basis it has developed, and lias finally become a foul 
and pernicious abuse. 

The former view, that idol a are only memorials, was 
also held by the Caliph M bawdy a regarding the idols 
of Sicily, When, in the summer of A* IT. 53, Sicily was 
conquered, and the conquerors sent him golden idols 
adorned with crowns and diamonds which had been 
captured there, he ordered them to be sent to Sind, that 
they should be sold there to the princes of the country ■ 
for he thought it best to sell thorn as objects costing 
sums of so-and-so many denars, not having the slightest 
scruple on account of their being objects of abomin- 
able idolatry, but simply considering the matter from a. 
political, not from a religious point of view. 


( **5 ) 


CHAPTER XII. 

ON THE VEDA, THE FDR AN AS, AN[> OTHER KINDS OP 
TEEIPl NATIONAL LITERATURE. 

Veda menua knowledge of that which was before un- 
known. It- is a religious system which, according to 
the Hindus, comes from God, and was promulgated 
by the mouth of Brahman. The Brahmins recite 
the Veda without under standing its meaning, and in 
the same way they learn it by heart, the one receiv- 
ing it from the other. Only few of them learn its 
explanation, and still less is the number of those who 
master the contents of the Veda and their interpretation 
to such a degree as to be able to hold a theological 
disputation. 

The- Brahmins teach the Veda to the Kshatriyae. 
The latter learn it, but are- not- allowed to teach it, not 
even to a Brail min. The Vaisya and Sfidra are not 
allowed to hear it, much less to pronounce and recite 
it. IP such a thing can be proved against one of them, 
the Brahmins drag him before the magistrate, and he 
is punished by having his tongue cut off. 

The Veda contains commandments and prohibitions, 
detailed statement s about reward anil punishment in- 
tended to encourage and to deter ; but most of it con- 
tains hymns of praise, and treats of the various kinds 
of sacrifices to the fire, which are so numerous and 
difficult that you could hardly count them. 

They do not allow the Veda to be committed to 
writing, because it is recited according to certain modu- 


Sfljndry 
mites rolftt 
i iijT to the 

VwJju 


The Veda 
traiLatflitted 
toy memory, 


A LBERUNFS INDIA. 


6j- 


Vaaukm 
CClCEim ItH- 

Veda tn 
writing. 


IZG 

larion^ and they therefore avoid the use of the pen* 
since it. is liable to cause some error, and may occasion 
an addition or a defect in the written text. In conse- 
quence it has happened that they have several times 
forgotten the Veda and lost it. For they maintain that 
the following passage occurs in the conversations be- 
tween God and Brahman relating to the beginning of 
all things, according to the report of Saunaka who had 
received it from the planet Venus : “ Yon will forget 
the Veda at Lhe time when the earth will be submerged ; 
it will then go down to the depths of the earth, and 
none but the fish will be able to bring it out again. 
Therefore I shall send lhe fish, and it will deliver the 
Veda into your hands* And I sit all send the boar to 
raise the earth with its tusks and Lo bring it out of the 
water / 1 

Fu r t b er , the Hin d u s m ai 1 1 tail 1 fcl j a t the V e da, togeth er 
will I all the rites of their religion and country, had been 
obliterated in the last Dvapara-yuga, a period of time 
of which we shall speak in the proper place, until it 
was renewed by Vyfiaa, the son of Farasara* 

The Vish-tni- Piwhui says ; " At, the beginning of each 
Man van tarn period there will be created anew a lord 
of a period whose children will rule over the whole 
earth, and a prince who will be the head of the world, 
and angels to whom men will bring hr e-offerings, and 
the Great Bear, who will renew the Wdn which is lost 
at the end of each period/' 

This is the reason why. not long before our time, 
hL: Vasukra, a native of Kashmir, a famous Brahmin, has 
of bis own account undertaken the task of explaining 
the Veda and committing it to writing* Ho lias taken 
on himself a task from which everybody else would 
have recoiled, but he carried it out because he was 
afraid that the Veda might bo forgotten and entirely 
vanish out of the memories of men, since he observed 
that the characters of men grew worse and worse, and 


CHAPTER XI L 


117 


that they did not care much for virtue, nor even for 
duty. 

There are certain passages in the Veda which, as they 
maintain, must not be recited within dwellings, since 
they fear that they would cause an abortion both to 
women and the cattle. Therefore they step out into the 
open field to recite them there. There is hardly a single 
verse free from such and similar minatory injunctions. 

As we have already mentioned, the books of the 
Hindus are metrical compositions like the Raj az poems 
of the Arabs. Most of them arc composed in a metre 
called Moka. The reason of this has already been 
explained. Galcnus also prefers metrical composi- 
tion, and says in his book Kara jiv ^ ; ^ The single 
signs which denote the weights of medicines become 
corrupt by being copied ; they are also corrupted by the 
wanton mischief of some envious person. Therefore it 
is quite right that the books of JJ autocrat es on medi- 
ernes should be preferred to others, and that they should 
gain fame and praise, since they are written in a Greek 
metre. 11 all books were written in this way it would 
be the best ; ” the fact being that a prose text is much 
more exposed to corrupt ion than a metrical one. 

The Veda, however, is not composed in this common 
metre, sloka, but in another. Some Hindus say that 
no one could compose anything in the same metre. 
However, their scholars maintain that this is possible 
indeed, but that they refrain from trying it merely from 
veneration for the Veda. 

According to their tradition, Yyasa divided it into 
four parts: / Hfjmda, Yam j ■ t.ala, Sdm amdet , and Aihar^ 
•vanaveda. 

Vyasa had four mhya t i.e, pupils. He taught a sepa- 
rate Veda to each of them, and made him carry it in 
Ills memory. They are enumerated in the same order 
as the four parts of the Veda : Pmla^ VaUarh/p^jana, 
Jaim in% Su ?n ant u. 


The four 
pupils of 
Vy ;'i sit rn 1 1 1 
( lie four 
Yc-drta. 


A LB BE UN PS INDIA. 


On Hie 
vediL, 


Faffs 6?. 


On tho 

S’ajufvijijuL 


TJjpi story <?f 
V ij DU’ 
vitlkya. 


IZ& 

Each of tho four parts lias a peculiar kind of recita- 
tion. The first is Rlgveda } consisting of metrical com- 
positions called fie, which arc of different lengths. It 
is called Rigveda as being the totality of the Ho. 
it treats of the sacrifices to the fire, and is recited in 
three different ways. First, in a uniform manner of 
reading, just as every other book is read. Secondly, in 
such a way that a pause is made after every single 
word. Thirdly, in n method which is the most meri- 
torious, and for which plenty of reward in heaven Is 
promised. First you read a short passage, each word 
of which is distinctly pronounced ; then you repeat It 
together with a part of that which has not yet been 
recited. Next you recite the added portion alone, and 
then you repeat it together with the next part of that 
which has not yet been recited, &c.> &c, Continuing to 
do so till the end, you will have read the whole text twice. 

The Yajurveda is composed of Mndin. The word 
is a derivative noun, and means the totality of the 
kdtifiin. The difference between this and the Rigveda 
is that it may be read as a text connected by the rides 
of Hum d hi, which is not allowed in the case of Rigveda, 
The one as well as the other treats of works connected 
with the fire and the sacrifices* 

I have heard the following story about the reason 
why the Rigveda. cannot be recited as a text connected 
by the rules of Samdhi: — 

Yajnavalkya stayed with his master, and his master 
had a Brahmin friend who wanted to make a journey. 
Therefore he asked the master to send somebody to his 
house to perform there during his absence the rites to 
Homa, i.e. to his fire, and to prevent it from being 
extinguished. Now the master sent, his pupils to the 
house of his friend one after the other. So it came to 
ha the turn of Yfijnavalkya, who was beautiful to look 
at and handsomely dressed r When he began the work 
which lie was sent for, in a place where the wife of the 


CHAPTER XU. 


12 y 

itbstuifc man was present., she conceived an aversion to 
1 1 is line attire, and Yajnavalkya became aware of it, 
though she concealed it, On having finished* he took 
the water to sprinkle it over the head of the woman, 
for this holds with them the place of the blowing after 
an incantation, since blowing is disliked by them and 
considered as something impure. Then the woman said, 

■’ Sprinkle it over this column." So he did, and at once 
the column became green. Now the woman repented 
having missed the blessing of his pious action ; there- 
fore on the following day she went to the master, asking 
him to send her the same pupil whom he had sent the 
day before, Yajnavalkya, however, declined to go 
except in his turn. No urging had any effect upon 
him ; he did not mind the wrath of his master, but 
simply said, “ Take away from me all that you have 
taught me/ 1 And scarcely had he spoken the word, 
when on a sudden he had forgotten all he knew before. 

Now he turned to the Sun and asked him to teach him 
the Veda. The Sun said, fi How is that possible, as I 
must perpetually wander, and you are incapable of 
doing the same?” But then Yajnavalkya clung to 
the chariot of the Sun and began to learn the Veda 
from him; but he was compelled to interrupt the 
recitation here and there on account of the irregularity 
of the motion of the chariot. 

The SImaveda treats of the sacrifices, command- 

. h K . and Athfttt 

meets, and prohibitions. It is recited m a tone Like va^wia. 

a cluLiitj. and hence its name is derived, because stiman- 
means the sweetness of recitation. The cause of this 
kind of recital is, that Nfirayana, when lie appeared on 
earth in the shape of Yamuna, and came to the king 
Bali, changed himself into a Brahman and began to 
recite the S&maveda with a touching melody, by 
which he exhilarated the king, in consequence of winch 
there happened to him the well-known story. 

I 1 he Atharvanaveda is as a text connected by the 
VOL, L I 


Lihr- mT (1 i* 
Pi fcrAnj iifs. 


PwtfC fig. 


(30 A LB BRUNTS INDIA. 

rules of Savhtlhi, It. does not consist of tins same com- 
positions as the Rig and Yajur Vedas, ; but of a third 
kind called bkara. It is recited according to a melody 
with a nasal Lone. This Veda is less, in favour with 
the Hindus than the others. It likewise treats of the 
sacrifices to the fire, and contains injunctions regarding 
the dead and what is to be done with them. 

As to the Puranas, we first mention that the word 
me ana furst t eternal, r l h ere an ■ ei gh t e eii I > u rfi n as, most 
of them called by the names of animals, human or 
angelic beings, because they contain stories about then), 
'or because the contents of the book refer in sumo wav 
to them, or because the book consists of answers which 
the creators whose name forms the title of the book 
has given to certain questions. 

The Pa ran as are of human origin, composed by the 
so-called Rishis, In the following 1 give a list of their 
names, as T have heard them, and committed them to 
writing from dictation ; — 

1 . Adi-pUrtlita, i.e. the (Irst, 

2. Mu ixt/a - jK vr& n a n i.e* the f a hIj - 
Kbr-mct-fm rdka , i.e. tbe tortoise;. 

4, V/ir dJat- - pur dn a , tbe boar. 

5* Nurtt&triih a qfurdna,, t.i?, a human being with a I Fou'h \ \ eti,d. 

6. Vdm&na,-purihw , ?.e, the dwarf, 

7. Vdyu-purdnct t i c. fcbo wind. 

8. Naftda-jiurkn^ Le, a servant, 0 r MainkTevu. 

9. Skandu-purdurt-i Lc, & uon of MahMe va . 

IO+ Adk-tfit-purdiicit i.f. the sun. 

11. tfwsiu-puruHfi, i.e. ihfi moon. 

1 2 . 8 dmba-p a rdna , -i.e. the son of Vi sb n u . 

13. ttrah-twbirfii-j ur/btii , t'.t-. hcjiveu. 

14. M&flisimltga -p urd na , i.e- ;l great. Ri&hL 

1 1, Twlshi/a - pHrttyi , i.t r the bird Gamda. 

16. Vahn-u-pwr dri& t ?‘.e. NAntyanfl, 

17. Brahma -punlna., i.e. the nature charged with the prose rva 

t.i on of tbe world, 

1 & Bhavwhyd purdna, i^c. future things. 

Of ah this literature I have only seen portions of the 
Matsya, Aditya, and Yiyu Pur anas. 


CHAPTER XfL 


3* 


Another somewhat different list of the lhirfmas has 
been read to me from the Vishtj^Pimiiia, I give it 
Lore m e&ten&o t as in all questions resting on tradition 
it is the duty of an author to give those traditions as 
completely as possible : — 

1. Brahma* 

2. fWwM?., i,c, the red lotus, 
j, Vuhnu. 

4. S iva, Lc. MfuhMeva, 

5. Bh&yavaia , i.e r VjLsudeva., 

6. Ndrt/rfd, i-e, the son of Urahrna. 

7. Al d rh.mdi-y<s . , 

’1. A$ni f i.e. the five, 

Qr Bhttvishya, Lc. the future, 

10. Brah v j 1 awa iv a rt <i , Lc. the wind, 

u. Liti (j -.t t Lv. an ima.^0 of Lhe xiuviv. of Mabideva, 

1 3 . Vurdhw- 

13 . Skmidii. 

14. VdmrsTiu . 

15. KtJrrnu, 

16. Mo&Stfa , L(\ til JO fifjli. 

17. (Jar-itija. Lc. the bird cm which Yishiiu rides. 
ift h BraJtmdnda. 


These are the names of 
tl i 0 Vixknu- P imhia . 

The book Smriti is deriv 
tains commandments and pi 
by the following twenty soi 

1. ApusEamlxu 

2. FamAftrn, 

Wittatapa- 

4 . SaiiivartiL. 

5+ DaMia, 

6. Ya^ghtba. 

7. Afiglr&s, 

5. Yama. 

g. Vishnu. 

fo. Manu> 


the Burin as according to 

:1 from the Veda- It con- 
diibitlons, and is composed 
■ of Brahman : — 

n . Yajnavalkj a. 

12, Atsi. 

13, Hurlta. 

14- LskhiLa. 
ijn Waukha. 

16, Gautama. 

17. Yribaspatip 
iS. KAty&yaiatu 

19, Vydsa. 

20. U£ana?. 


Besides, the Hindus have books, about the jurispru- 
dence of their religion, on theosophy, on ascetics, on 
the process of becoming god and seeking liberation 


A lriU 
books. 


132 


ALBERUNI'S INDIA. 


PftffL* rj.\, 


\f(4,W<- 

bMraitt. 


from the world, as, e.g. the book composed by U suit la 
the anchorite, which goes by bis name; the book Sdm- 
Iki/a, composed by Kapila, on divine subjects; the book 
of Patanjalf on the search for liberation and for the 
union of the soul with the object of its meditation ; 
the book Nydyahkdslul 7 composed by Kapil a, on the 
Veda and its interpretation, also showing that it has 
been created, and distinguishing within the Veda be- 
tween such injunctions as are obligatory only in cer- 
tain cases, and those which are obligatory in general ; 
further, the book Mwidmm, composed by Jaiminh on 
the same subject; the book Lmthbyata, composed by 
Brihaspati, treating of the subject that in all investiga- 
tions we must exclusively rely upon the apperception of 
the senses; the book Jif/adyama t a. com po se d by Agastya, 
treating of the subject that in all investigations we 
must use the apperception of the senses as well as tradi- 
tion ; and the bock Vishnu-dharma. The word dharma 
means ream'd t but in general it is used for rdy/ion; so 
that this, title means Tkc religion of f.lotf who in this 
case is understood to be Karfiyana, Further* there are 
the books of the six pupils of Y’yfisa, viz. Jj£'L r tt/a, SuJ:m. 
lihurgma, Vrihaspaii, Ydjnavaldcya., and Mann, The 
Hindus have numerous books about all the branches 
of science. How could anybody know the titles of all 
of them, more especially if he is not a Hindu , but a 
foreigner ? 

Besides, they have a book which they bold in such 
veneration that they firmly assert that everything which 
occurs in other books is found also in this book, but not 
all which occurs in this book is found in other books. 
It is called Bkdrata , and composed by Vyiisa the son 
of Par a sara at the time of the great war between the 
children of Panda and those of Kuru. The title itself 
gives an indication of those times. The book has 
100,000 SI okas in eighteen parts, each of which is called 
Par-van, Here we give the list of them 


CHAPTER XIL 


'33 


i h Sahlm-piirva f it\ the king’s dwelling, 

2. AratiyfM Le. going out into 1 lit 1 open fa ul 1 1 . meaning the 
exodus of the children of Ptindu. 
j, Virdfa, i.c> the name of a king in whoso realm I. hoy dwelt 
e. tilling the time of their conceal ment. 

4. Udyo ga-i Le, the preparing Tot battle, 

5 . BlrtfJittW-i. 

6 h Dr mm the Brahmin* 

7. Kanm the son of the Sun. 

H- X'fdya the brother of DuryodJiama, some of the greatest heroes 
who did the fighting, one uhmya coming forward after 
hi?i prcdeceiSSOT had been killer!. 

■ a Oadil, t,e. the club, 

10, S>uq't(J,if t ic. the killing of the sleepers, when A^vaM-human 

the son of Krona attacked the city of Fiifidtla during 
the night Lind killed the inhabitants. 

11. Jidaprmhhiika, i.c. the Successive drawing of water for the 

dead, after people have washed olf I lie impurity unused 
by the touching of i he dead* 

1 a. Stri ? i.e . the lamentations of the women. 

13. containing 24,000 slokas on eradicating hai red from 
the heart, in four parts : 

( r.) R&jadharma-, on the reward of the kings. 

(3,) iMnudharma, on the reward for almsgiving* 

(3.) Apadttititrma.. on the reward of those who are in need and 
trouble, 

(4,) Mo Jcskadfuirmx, on the reward of him who is liberated 
from the world, 

14. AhwMttifisi, Lzr the naciifEoe oF Ulo horse which is sent out 

together with an army to wander through the world. 

Then they proclaim in public that it belong# to the king 
of the world 1 and that he who does not agree thereto is to 
come forward to light. The Brahmans follow the homo, 
aud celebrate sacrifices to the fire in those places where 
the horse drops its dung. 

15. iWattsaia, is,* tbo fighting of the Yftd&vas, the tribe of YAsu- 

deva, among themselves. 

16. Afafimatrim, i.c. leaving one's own country, 

1 7 . Pm till fina , i,^. qut 1 1 i n g th e rea h 1 j to seek S i be rat i on . 
j.b SvargdroAmictj Lc. journeying towards Paradise. 

These eighteen parts are followed by another one 
which is called ffarivafh£&-P(irvan t which contains the 
traditions relating to V it slide? a, 

In this book there occur passages which, like riddles, 
admit of manifold interpretations. As to the reason of Fagots 


134 


ALBERUSrS INDIA. 


this the Hindus relate the following story i — Yyftsa 
asked Hrahinan to procure him somebody who might, 
write for him the Bharat a from his dictation, Now he 
intrusted with this task his son Vinuyaka, who is re- 
presented as an idol with an elephant's head, and made 
it obligatory on him never to cease from writing. At 
the same time Yyfefl made it obligatory on him to 
write o n ly th at wh i ch h e n n d erstoo d . Thereto re Y y fi sa, 
in the course of his dictation, dictated soch sentences 
as compelled the writer to ponder over them, and thereby 
Vyfi.sa gained time for resting awhile. 


C *35 ) 


CHAPTER XIII. 

THEIR GRAMMATICAL ATCP METRICAL TJTEKATURE, 

The two science s of grammar and metrics are auxiliary 
to the other sciences. Of the two. the former, grammar, 
holds the first place in their estimate, called vydkaraiia, 
i.e. the law of the correctness of their speech and ety- 
mological rules s by means of which they acquire an 
eloquent and classical style both in writing and reading. 
We Muslims cannot learn anything of ih since it is a 
branch coming from a root which is not within our 
grasp — I mean the language itself. That which 1 have 
been told as to titles of books on this science is the 
following : — 

j. Aindra, attributed Ut Jjidra, r.lic head of the angels 

2 . (Mndm, composed by Catidra, une of the red- robe- wearing 

seel - , the followers of Buddha. 

3. S'&hita, so called by the name of its author. Hfs i-.ri be t 

too, is called by a name towed (Void the nmne word, vise. 

Witfoi tuydtirti 

4. Pthiint, 40 called from its author. 

jl- hVttontra, composed by Sarvavarman- 

6 r S'aHdemvritti, composed by Hasideva. 

7 . Da rgomLvritti . 

B. tfiehyahitilvriui, composed by Ugrabbfiti, 

1 have been told that the last-mentioned author was 
the teacher and instructor of Shah An an dap ala, the son 
of Jayapala, who ruled in our time. After having com- 
posed the book he sent it to Kashmir, but the people 
there did not adopt it, being in such things haughtily con- 
servative. Now he complained of this to the Shah, and 


TJat of 
books on 
graminnr. 


Shfili AfaSiti- 

dapiVLa aod 
SiIh- mrLHtLT 
Ugrabhad. 


ALDER UNI'S INDIA, 


TjlIg 

insf t'> the 
urigtii ot 
yrai 1 1 Insr. 


The pro* 
clJ lection of 
tJj* HEiirlwe 
for motiiLiit 
ecm jf.osi- 
tluus, 


l$6 

the Shlh, in accordance with the duty of a pupil towards 
his master ? promised him to make him attain his wish. 
So he gave orders to send 200.000 dirham and presents 
of a similar value to Kashmir, to be distributed among 
those who studied the book of Ins master. The con- 
sequence was that they all rushed upon the book, and 
would not copy any other grammar but this one, show- 
ing them selves in the baseness of their avarice- The 
book became the fashion and highly prized. 

Of the origin of grammar they give the following 
account: — One of their kings, called Samalvahana, 
in the classical language, Sfi.tavS.hana, was one day in a 
] sond playing w r ith his wives, when he said to one of 
them “ Mdudaham dehi” he. do not sprinkle the under tm 
?n.e. The woman, however, understood it as if he had said 
modakam deki, he. bring sweetmeats. So she went away 
and brought him sweetmeats. And when the king 
disapproved of her doing so, she gave him an angry 
reply, and used coarse language towards him. Now lie 
was deeply offended, and, in consequence, as is their 
custom, he abstained from all food, and concealed him- 
self In some corner until he was called upon by a sage, 
who consoled him, promising him that he would teach 
people grammar and the inflexions of the language, 
Thereupon the sage went off to Mahudeva, praying, 
praising, and fasting devoutly. Mali&Jeva appeared to 
him, and communicated to him some few rules, the like 
of which Abu Fas wad Aclditali has given tor the Arabic 
language. The god also promised to assist him in the 
further development of this science. Then the sage 
returned to the king and taught it to him. This was 
the beginning of the science of grammar. 

Grammar is followed by another science, called 
rjtanda&i i.e. the metrical form of poetry, corresponding 
to our metrics — a science indispensable to them, since 
all their books are inverse* By composing their books 
in metres they intend to facilitate their being learned 


Pag a £& 


CHAPTER XI I L 


137 


by heart, and to prevent people In nil questions of 
science ever recti n‘ing to a written text, save in a case 
of bare necessity. For they think that the mind of 
man sympathises with everything in which there is 
symmetry and order, and lias an aversion to everything 
iu which there is no order. Therefore most Hindus are 
passionately fond of their verses, and always desirous 
of reciting them, even if they do not understand the 
meaning of the words, and the audience will snap their 
fingers in tokei 1 of j oy ar \ d ap pi a use. Th ey do 1 1 ot w a u t 
prose compositions, although it is much easier to under- 
stand them. 

Most of their books are composed in Sloka, in which 
T am now exercising myself, being occupied in compos- 
ing for the Hindus a translation of the books of Fuel id 
and of the Almagest, and dictating to them a treatise on 
the construction of the astrolabe, being simply guided 
herein by the desire of spreading science. If the Hin- 
dus happen to get some book which does not yet exist 
among them, they set at work to change it into SlokaSt 
which are rather unintelligible, since the metrical form 
entails a constrained, affected style, which will become 
apparent when we shall speak of their method of ex- 
press! ng numbers. A n d if th e v e rses are n ot su ffi cient ly 
affected, their authors meet with frowning faces, as 
having committed something like mere prose, and then 
they will feel extremely unhappy. God will do me jus- 
tice in what I say of them. 

The first who invented this art were Pi ri gala and ™ 
{? C L T). The books on the subject are nu- 
merous. The most famous of them is the book GaisiUi 
(- Ct— AI — S — T), so called from its author, famous to 
such a degree that even the whole science of metrics 
has been called by this name. Other books are that of 
Mrigal finch ana, that of Pin gala, and that of JuUijI (? f) 

(An) — L — Y — A — N “ D), I, however, have not seen 
any of these books, nor do T know much of the chapter 


ALBERUNTS INDIA , 


On the 
moinng of 
tlifi iachtii- 
&:U taring 
lug A it and 


13S 

of the which treats of metrical cal- 

culations, and therefore' 1 have no claim to a thorough 
knowledge of the laws of their metrics. Nevertheless,, 
I do not think it right to pass by a subject of which .1 
have only a smattering, and I shah not postpone speak- 
ing of it until I shall have thoroughly mastered it. 

In counting the syllables (gaiiaohaniias) they use 
similar figures to those used by Alkhalfl I bn Ahmad and 
our metricians to denote the consonant -without vowel and 
the consonant with vowel , viz, these two signs, [ and >, 
the former of which is called laghn t he. light ; the latter, 
g 1 irtt , L e. h eay y . In tt leas u ring ( mdtrdchand as ) ? the g a rn 
Is reckoned double of a laghn, and its place may be 
filled by two laghn. 

Further, they have a syllable which they call long 
(dtryha), the measure or prosody of which is equal to 
that of a guru. This, I think, is a syllable with a 
long vowel (like M, M, ha). Here, however, I must, 
confess that up to the present moment I have not 
been able to gain n clear idea of the nature of both 
laf/Jm and guru, so as to be able to illustrate them 
by similar elements in Arabic. However, I am in- 
clined to think that laghn does not mean a consonant 
without roirt-L nor guru a consonant with vowel, bub that, 
on the contrary, laghn means a consonant with a short- 
vowel (e.g. .fax, ki t hu), and gu.ru means the same with 
a vowel less consonant (e.g* kaL hit, hit), like an el cm ant- 
in Arabic metrics called Sabah (he* — or w , a long 
syllable the place of which may be taken by two short 
ones). That which makes me doubt as to the first- 
men lion ed definition of laghn is this circumstance, that 
the Hindus use many laghn one after the other in an 
uninterrupted succession. The Arabs are not. capable 
of pronouncing two vowel less consonants, one after the 
other, but in other languages this is possible. The Per- 
sian metricians, for instance, call such a consonant 
moved by a light vowel (i e. pronounced with a sound like 


CHAPTER XIII . 


139 


the Hebrew Schwa)- But, in any ease, if such conso- 
nant® are more than three in number, they are most 
difficult, nay, even impossible to pronounce- whilst, on 
the other hand, there is not the slightest difficulty in 
pronouncing an uninterrupted series of short syllables 
consisting of a consonant with a short vowel, as when 
you say in Arabic/ £ Bculanuka MmtUhali sifvHka wa/a- 
muka him ati shafatika (i,c> Thy body is like thy 
description, and thy month depends upon the width of 
th y 11 p) . i 1 li rt h er * although it is d iffi cu 1 1 to pro n 0 un ce Tw* g?- 
a vowelless consonant at the beginning of a word, most 
nouns of the Hindus begin., if not exactly with vowel- 
less consonants, still with such consonants as have only 
a Schwa-like vowel- sound to follow them. If such & 
consonant stands at the beginning of a verse, they drop 
it, in counting, since the law of the guru demands that 
in it the vowellesB consonant shall not precede but fol- 
low the vowel (Jca-t t ki-fi , ku-t). 

Further, as our people have composed out of the /bd Definition 
( l } certain schemes or types, according to which 
verses are constructed, and have invented signs to 
denote the component parts of a foot, i.e* the consonant 
with and withtyid a vowel, in like manner also the 
Hindus vise certain names to denote the feet which are 
composed of tag] iv and guru, either the former preced- 
ing and the latter following or vice wrsd, in such n 
way, however, that the measure must always he the 
same, whilst the number of syllables may vary* By 
these names they denote a certain conventional prosodic 
unity (be. certain fed). Ry measure, I mean that laghu 
is reckoned =one mMnk be* measure, and guru—t wo 
mtitrtk If they represent a foot in writing, they only 
express the measure of the syllables, not their number, 
as, e.g* (in Arabic) a double consonant (kka) is counted 
as a consonant without vowel plus a con sonant with 
vowel, and a consonant followed by Tanwhi (kim) is 
counted as a consonant with a vowel plus a consonant 


Nrutuis oF 
lotflm :nnl 
pWfli, 


The isiagle 
/Ui< 


1 40 A LB BE U NFS INDIA . 

without vowel, whilst in writing both are represented 
as one and the same thing (Le. by the sign of the con- 
sonant in question). 

Taken alone by themselves, laghn and gum are 
called by various names : the former, la, kali, rilpa , 
cdnmra, and graha ; the latter, ga, nivra. and a half 
amsaka* The latter name shows that a complete 
r vri fS'ika- 1 s e q ti al to two mi ■ u or their oq n i val ei 1 1* r H l ese 
names they have invented simply to facilitate the ver- 
sification of their metrical books. For this purpose 
they have invented so many names, that one may fit 
into the metre if others will not. 

The feet arising out of combinations of la.ghu and 
f/uTU are the following I— 

Twofold both in number and measure is the foot 1 1, 
Le, two syllables and two mdtrd, 

Twofold in rrn ruber, not in measure, are the feet, | < 
and < | j in measure they are = three mdtrd \ \ | (but, 
in number, only two syllables),. 

The second foot- < j (a trochee) is called hriHikd. 

The quaternary feet are in each book called by dif- 
ferent names ; 

c c pal- sha. f 2 V the half month. 

1 j < jmlatW f i.e, the fi.ru, 
l C j metdhya (7 m&dhu). 

< I I pari- at f.i.-, Le* the mourn tain, also called Itdra and tom. 

| | j | gknna, Le. the cube. 

The feet consisting of five mrttrd have manifold 
forms ; those of them which have special names are the 
following : — 

\< < hatitiiu ic* 1 lie elephant, I <^j (7 lacuna). 

<^< Ifl*. the wish, I || | < ku&uma. 

A foot consisting of six mdtrti is < < < . 

Borne people call these feet by the names of the 
chess figures, viz* : 

jvalrtiiu = the elephant. I parvatd. — the pawn. 

madltya. = the tower* | <jhamt = the horse. 


CHAPTER XII L 


4 


In a lexicographical work to which the author Oui.hiw 
* , run Lament 

j h (? 11 aiibl] alia) has given his own name, the feet 

|T r H- ri I Hart- 

composed of three htglm or gurw are called by single bLa ^" 
consonant^ winch in the following diagram arc written 
on their left : — 

Dili/ Fa-Jit, 

at : < < sixfold (i r c. contain Ln^ six mdtrd), 

•t/ | < hastily 

r < I < Mm&* 

(■ < < | (? lacuna-}. 

,1 | | < jmltttati 

j | < I iHadht/a. 

bh < | J wrmtii. 

n | | | threefold [m?. coJitaintng three mdtrd). 

By means of these signs the author teaches how to 
construct these eight feet by ait inductive method (a 
kind of algebraic permutation), saying; 

“ Place one of the two kinds (j/itrn and layhu) in 
the first line nn mixed (that would be < < < , if we Phl^ 6S- 
begin with a guru). Then mix it. with the second 
kind, and place one of this at the beginning of the 
second line, whilst Hie two other elements are of the 
first kind (|< <). Then place this element of admix- 
ture in the middle of the third line (<J<), and lastly 
at the end of the fourth line (< <|). Then yon have 
finished the first half. 

"Further, place the second kind in the lowest line, 
unmixed (| j |), and mix up with the line above it one 
of the first kind, placing it at the beginning of the line 
(< | [). then in the middle of the next following line 
(| I), and lastly at the end of the next following line 

([ | < ). Then the second half is finished, and all the 
possible combinations of three rtuUra- have been ex- 
hausted.” 


i. < < < 
2+ \ < < 
J- < I < 
4. C < I 


First hiilL 


5- I I < | 

& 1 < 1 I 

7- < ! I f 

U I l J 


Second half. 


This system of composition or permutation is correct. 


M3 


A L B ER U N PS 1 N I) I A , 


Ou thy 


but his calculation showing how to find that place 
which every single foot occupies in this series of per- 
mutations is not in accordance with it. For he says: 

ff Place the numeral 2 to denote each element of a 
foot both ywrn and latfhu), once for all, so that 
every foot is represented by 2 , 2, 2* Multiply the 
left (number) by the middle, and the product by the 
right one. If this multiplier (te, this number of the 
right side) is a Imhu, then leave the product as it is 5 
but if it is a guru, subtract one from the product ” 

The author exemplifies this with the sixth foot, i.e* 
i < b He multiplies 2 by 2 , and from the product (4) 
he subtracts 1. The remaining 3 he multiplies by the 
third 2, and he gets the product of 6 . 

This, however, is not correct for most of the feet, and 
I am rather inclined to believe that the text of the 
manuscript is corrupt. 

The proper order of the feet would accordingly be the 
following : 


1, 

II, 

111. 

1. 

11. in. 

]. < 

< 

< 

5 . < 

< f 

2 r | 

< 

< 

6. I 

< 1 

3 - < 

1 

< 

7. < 

1 1 

4 j 1 

1 

< 

8. f 

1 1 

The minute of the first line (No. I.) is 

sucli that one 


hind always follows the other. In the second line 
(No, II.) two of one "kind are followed by two of the 
other ; and in the third line (No, 1 1 1 + ) four of one kind 
are followed by four of the other. 

Then the author of the above-mentioned calculation 
goes on to say : u If the first element of the foot is a 
gtiru t subtract one before you multiply. If the multi- 
plier is a guru, subtract one from the product. Thug 
you find the place which a foot occupies in this order, 5 9 
As the Arabic verse is divided into two halves or 
hemistich 5 by the aritrf, the last foot of the first 


CHAPTER XII L 


*43 

hemistich., and the darh, i.e* the last foot of the second 
hemistich, in like maimer the verses of the Hindus are 
divided into two halves, each of which is called foot 
(pdda.y The Greeks, too, call them fmi (lamna ) 7 — 
1,1) ose words which are composed of it, (rvAAw/iv/, and 
the consonants with or without vowels* with long, short* 
or doubtful vowels* 

The verse Is divided into three, or more commonly 
into four pa do:. Sometimes they add a fifth pdda in 
the middle of the verse. The pddas have no rhyme, 
but there is a kind of metre, in wliich the i and 2 
pddas end with the same consonant or syllable as if 
rhyming on it, and also the pddas 3 and 4 end with 
the same consonant or syllable. This kind is called 
Aryd. At the end of the pdda a laghn may become a 
guru-, though in general this metre ends with a laghn. 

The different poetical works of the Hindus contain 
a great number of metres. In the- metre of 5 pdda } 
the fifth pdda is placed between pddas 3 and 4, The 
names of the metres differ according to the number of 
syllables, and also according to the verses which fol- 
low, For they do not like all the verses of a long 
poem to belong to one and the same metre. They use 
many metres in the same poem, in order that it should 
appear like an embroidered piece of silk. 

The construction of the four pddas in the lorn -pdda 
metre is the following: — 


— < < paksha= t aiitwakfL. 

q < | j pftrvata, 

2 | | < jvaiana. 

< < pakfilm, 
c [ \ pirmta. 

< < paMb a. 

| 

111 

c < p&kMia. 

E | | < jvalana. 

< < pakflba. 

| | < jvalaua. 

J 

g j c | msidliya. 

1 c | nsndhya^ 

£ 

H < ! | parvatfl. 

c [ | parvata. 


< < paksba. 

| 1 c jVaJana. 


On the 

niLifcra 

Aryd. 


PaRQ 69- 


A LEER UN VS INDIA . 


P 7 ^ 


A h.ia'tj i'LH'j 
JlnuJu 1 1 1 il -L- 

f>f A 
rpiefassi 


M 4 

This is a representation of a species of their metres, 
called blmndJia^ containing four j wda. It consists of 
two halves, and each half has eight awJalca. 

Of the single amiaka, the Tst ? 3d, and Jth can never 
be 0, madhya, he. < |, and the 6th must always be 
either a madhya or a fj&ana. If this- condition is adhered 
to, the other a-ik&a 7 ca& may be anything at all, just as 
accident or the fancy of the poet wills it- However, 
the metre must always be complete, neither more nor 
less- Therefore, observing the rules as to the formation 
of certain aVaivtkas in the single pddas, wo may repre- 


sent the four pddm in 

tl 1 e to] 1 0 w i Tig m aimer : — 

P§da I. 

< < 

<11 M <• 


Fix du II. 

< < 

1 1 < i < 1 

< 1 i < <■ 

rada in. 

< < 

< 1 < <. 


P&da IV. 

< < 

i< < 1 < 1 

<11 1 1 <« 

According to this pattern the verse is 

composed. 


If you represent an Arabic metre by these signs of 
the Hindus, you will find that they mean something 
entirely different from what the Arabic feigns mean 
which denote a consonant with- a short vowel and a 
consonant without a vowel* (The Arabic sign 1 means 
a consonant without a vowel; the Hindu sign | means 
a short syllable; the Arabic sign o means a consonant 
followed by a short vowel ; the Hindu sign < means a 
Jong syllable.) As an example, we give a representation 
of the regular complete Khafif metre, representing each 
foot by derivations of the root J*}, 

Mtirmn Khafif. 


Cr >* / / til t/tj ■£■ J / / 


( 1 .) 

' _r / 


represented by derivation a of the root. 


( 2 -) loloolo 

represented by Arabia signs. 

loo lol 0 

loloolo. 

(3-) <<1< 

<1 << 

<<\<, 


represented by the signs of the Hindus. 


CHAPTER XIII r 


] 4S 


We give the latter signs in an inverted order, since 
the Hindus read from the left to the right. 

I Slave already once pleaded as my excuse, and do so 
here a second time, that my slender knowledge o£ this 
science does not enable me to give the reader a complete 
insight into the subject. Still I take the greatest pains 
with it, though I am well aware that it is only very 
little I can give. 

The name VriUa applies to each four -pdda metre in o^tuu 
which the signs of both the prosody and the number of 
the syllables are like each other, according to a certain 
correspondence of the pddas among them selves, so that 
if yon know one prfita, you know also the other ones, 
for tli ey ar e like it. Fu rth er 5 1 h ere i s a 1 aw th at a pt t d a 
cannot have less than four syllables, since a pdda with 
less does not occur in the Veda- For the same reason 
the smallest number of the syllables of a pdda is four, 
the largest twenty- six, In consequence, there are 
twenty-three varieties of the VriUa metre, which we 
shall here enumerate: — 


1. The pdda bus four hmvy syllables (jumK and here you can- 

not put two Iwjhte in the place of one guru, 

2. The nature of the second kind of the pdda is not clear to mo, 

m I omit it. 

3. This ptkla is built of 

yhuna -r jwknhL. 

111! << 


4. = 2 guru 4- 2 loghu 4- 3 guru. 

< < 11 < < < 

It would be better to describe this jj yda as — poluhi + 
jnv'.amt 4- ptLfoha, 

5 , —2 IvriUikA 4 - jva&Ltit t 4 - 

<1d 11 < << 

4 - 

< < 

4 - jv&tana. , 

1I< 


6. — ghuii.it + hiadhya 

Mil I <| 

7. — ghrtui 4- jparrofa 

'1 1 1 1 < 1 1 


rag 4 !- 71 . 


VOL- b 


K 


146 ALBERUNI’S INDIA. 


S. = Mmu, 


jvrdaivi , 

guru. 


<l< 

Ill< 

|l< 

< 


9. — ptjJfcti/ut , 


jvtdavui. 

mv,dLya t 2 

guru. 

< < 

1 < < 

IK 

l<l 

< < 

10. = palcihcti 

pdrmta, 


madhtpn. 

pals'* a. 

< < 

<11 

' ll< 

l < ! 

< < 

it. =s pftkiiha P 

tiiCiilliya. j, 

2 jmlamii 

hairt-m. 


< < 

l<l 

IK IK 

!<< 


J 2 , — g haunt, 

jv-Urma, 

yxildhtti 

2 hast in. 


MU 

1 |< 

<< | 

< < |< < 


13, — pa maUf, , 

Tad rritt. 

ktrfittmtf.. 

madhya, jvalana.. 

<11 

<l< 

Ilk 

1 < 1 

!K 

14- ~ pakitha^ parvata, Aufltuna, pcermin^ highu t guru* 

1 < < 

< < <1 

1 l|l< 

<11 l 

< 

15. — 2 pahsk a, 

p&rmtOt 


2 htma. 

guru. 

< < < < <11 

Ilk 

<l< <1 

< < 


t6. = pakshi, prtraata, kima, kusuma, ptthsha, la/jfoi, guru. 

<< <f| <|< |j|< << | < 

17 , 2 pnksha, parvttkL ghuna, jvttlanu., pahaha t kusumtt. 

<<<<<11 Mil 1 1 < << Ilk 


1 8. — 2 palyJmj p&rvafri j (fhnjui, jvaltmaj 2 Mm a, guru. 

<<<< <[| Mil ||< <j< <|< < 

l^ r - gunt, zpakih&t fAtffiita, ghmm, halxtwt^ 2 Mma, guru. 

< < < < < <11 1 1 I I 1 1< <l< <|< < 

20, — 4 jiuMtf, jva lotas s ma dfi ya f p&fyajm f 2 , ma dh ya t gam. 

<<<<<<<< n< |<| << |<l |<i < 

31 - = 4 pafctfify sjvolctjw, 2 mudftyaj guru. 

<<<<<<<<II< 1 IVI 1 < ]<|l<| < 

22, — 4 pakslttt, ku&\&ma. uuulhvfa t jralnnti, zmadftga, gum 

<<<<<<<<HI< |<| 11 < 1 < 11 < 1 < 

23. - & gtt ?■ u . 10 hi'/hu, Mma f jvalavta, faghu, guru 

<<<<<<<< 1 ilium <!< n< 1 < 


CHAPTER XITL 


147 


We have given such a lengthy account, though it be 
only of scanty use, in order that the reader may see 
for himseli the example of an accumulation of laghus , 
which shows that lagkn means a consonant followed by 
a short vowrf t not a consonant without a voweL Further, 
he will thereby Learn the way in which they represent 
a metre and the method of their scanning a verse. 
Lastly, he will learn that Alkhalil I bn Ahmad exclu- 
sively drew from his own genius when lie invented the 
Arabic metrics, though, possibly, he may have beard, 
as some people think, that the Hindus use certain 
metres in their poetry. If we here take so much 
trouble with Indian metrics, we do it for the purpose 
of fixing the laws of the SI oka, since most of their 
books are composed in it. 

The Hloka belongs to the four -p&da metres* Each 
Jidda has eight syllables, which are different in all four 
pddas. The last syllable of each of the four pad a* 
must be the same, viz, a guru. Further, the fifth 
syllable in each jvida must always be lagJm, the sixth 
syllable guru. The seventh syllable must be laghu in 
the second and fourth pdda t fjurn in the first and third 
pddas, The other syllables are entirely dependent 
upon accident or the writer's fancy. 

In order to show in what way the Hindus use 
arithmetic in their metrical system, we give in the 
following a quotation from Brahmagupta; “The first 
kind of poetry is gdyatri, a metre consisting of two 
pddas. if we now suppose that the number of the 
syllables of this metre may be 24, and that the smallest 
number of the syllables of one pdda is 4. we describe 
the two pddas by 4 4, representing their smallest 

possible number of syllables. As, however, their largest 
possible number ls 24, we add the difference between 
these 4 4 and 24 f Le. 16, to the right-side number, 

and get 4 -h 20. If the metre had three pddas, it 
would be represented by 44-44 16. The- right-side 


Thenry of 

tlie SI. An. 


Quotation 

fjH.'Sjj UrjiH- 
JHfitfltpta, 


A LEER UN PS INDIA. 


72. 


148 

pdda is always distinguished from the others and called 
by a separate name ; bat the preceding pdda$ also are 
connected, so as to form one whole, and likewise called 
by a separate name- if the metre had four pridas, it 
would be represented by 4 I 4 4 12. 

11 If, however, the poet does not use the pMa$ of 4, L e. 
the smallest possible number of syllables, and if we 
want to know the number of combinations of the 24 
syllables which may occur in a two -ptkla metre, we 
write 4 to the left and 20 to the right ; we add 1 to 4, 
again 1 to the sum, &o, : we subtract I from 20 y again 
1 from the remainder, &c, \ and this we continue until 
we get both the same numbers with which we com- 
men cod, the small number in the line which commenced 
with the greater number, and the greater number in 
the line which commenced with the small number. 
See the following scheme : — 


4 

20 

5 

19 

6 

18 

7 

17 

8 

16 

9 

IS 

10 

14 

1 1 

13 

1 2 

12 

i3 

E I 

14 

IO 

1 $ 

9 

16 

8 

17 

7 

iS 

6 

19 

5 

20 

4 


The number of those combinations is 17, i.c. the dif- 
ference between 4 and 20 fins T* 

** As regards the three-p&ta metre with the presup- 
posed number of syllables, i*e. 24, its first species is 


CHAPTER XHL 


149 


111 at ia which all three pddm have the smallest pos- 
sible number of syllables, i*e. 4 I 4 i 16, 

‘ ‘ The right-side number and the middle number wo 
write down as we have done with the p&das of the two 
pfida metre, and we make with them the same- calcula- 
tion as we have done above. Be aides, we add the left- 
side number in a separate column, but do not make it 
undergo any changes. £ce the following scheme : — 


4 

4 

16 

4 

5 

IS 

4 

6 

14 

4 

7 

1 3 

4 

a 

12 

4 

9 

I E 

4 

10 

SO 

4 

ir 

9 

4 

1,2 

8 

4 

l 3 

7 

4 

(4 

* 

4 

*5 ' 

S 

4 

16 

4 


4 'This gives the number of 13 permutations, but by 
changing the places of the numbers forwards and back- 
wards in the following method, the number may be 
increased sixfold, i.e, to 78 

“ L The right-side number keeps its place : the two 
other numbers exchange their places, so that the middle 
number stands at the leftside: the left-side number 
occupies the middle : — 


4 4 h> 

5 4 ts 

6 4 M 

7 4 13&C. 


“II. -HI. The right-side number is placed in the 
middle between the other two numbers, which first 


IS® 


ALBBRUNPS INDIA. 


keep their original places, arid then exchange them 
with each other : 


4 

16 

4 

4 

[ 5 

5 

4 

>4 

6 

4 

ij 

7 


4 

16 

4 

5 

IS 

4 

6 

14 

4 

7 

13 

4 &*•.. 


■ ■ I V .—V. Th e ri g] it - Rid e i in ml jo r is pi aced to th e le ft, 
and the other two numbers first keep their original 
places, and then exchange them with each oilier: — 


IV, 



16 

4 

4 

*5 

4 

5 

14 

4 

6 

! * 

4 

7 .&£ J. 


V. 


1(3 

4 

4 

15 

5 

4 

14 

6 

4 

13 

1 

4 &e. 


*' Because, further, the numbers of the syllables of a 
pnrfa rise like the square of 2 f for after 4 follows 8., we 
may represent the syllables of the three in this 

way: 8f 8 S (^4+4 + 16), However, their arith- 
metical peculiarities follow another rule. The four- 
pdda metre follows the analogy of the three -ptida 
metre.” 

Of the above-mentioned treatise of Brahmagupta T 
have only seen a single leaf : it con tains, no doubt, 
important elements of arithmetic. God affords help 


CHAPTER Kill. 


151 

and sustains by his mercy* i.e. I hope one day to learn 
those things. As far as I can guess with regard to the 
literature of the Greeks, they used in. their poetry 
similar feet to the Hindus ; for Galenus says in his book 
Kara yei^j : <£ The medicine prepared with saliva dis- 
covered by Menecrat.es lias been described by Dar fin- 
er ate s in a poem composed in a metre consisting of 
three parte.” 


( '52 ) 


Til-rill* 1 1 n- 

f.ivi.’.u-sOjlc 
to EllC 

of 

bizLt jifft 1 


On the 
SULdhAntae, 


CHAPTER XI Y. 

HINDI: LITERATURE IN TOE OTHER SCIENCES, 
ASTRONOMY ASTROLOGY* ETC. 

T uk number of sciences is great, and it may be still 
greater if the public mind is directed towards them at 
such times as they are in the ascendancy and in general 
favour with all T when people not only honour science 
itself, but also its representatives. To do this is, in the 
first instance, the duty of those who rule over them, of 
kings and princes* For they alone could free the minds 
of scholars from the daily anxieties for the necessities 
of life* and stimulate their energies to earn more fame 
and favour, the yearning for which is the pith and mar- 
row of hitman nature. 

The present times, however, are not of this kind. 
They are the very opposite, and therefore it is quite 
impossible that a now science or any new kind of 
research should arise in our days. What we have of 
sciences is nothing but the scanty remains of bygone 
better times. 

If a science or an idea has once conquered the whole 
earth, every nation appro prial es part of it. So do also 
the Hindus, Their belief about the cyclical revolutions 
of times is nothing very special, but is simply in accord- 
ance with the results of scientific observation. 

The science of astronomy is the most famous among 
them, since the affairs of their religion are in various 
ways connected with it* If a man wants to gain the 
title of an astronomer, he must not only know scientific 


CHAPTER XIV. 


1 55 


or mathematical astronomy, but also astrology. The 
book known among Muslims as Smdhind is called by 
them Siddhdniat Le. straight , not crooked nor changing. 
By this name they call every standard book on astro- 
nomy, even such books as, according to our opinion, 
do not come up to the mark of our so-called Zij\ i.e, 
hand books of mathematical astronomy. They have live 
Siddhantas : — 

I. S4rya-siddhdnta, i.e, the Siddhanta of the sun, 
composed by Bata. 

II. Vasisk tha-sitf dk&nta, so called from one of the 
stars of the fire at Bear, composed by Vislmucaudra, 

III. J-hdim-dddhdrda , so called from Faulisa, the 
Greek, from the city of Saintra, which I suppose Lo be 
Alexandria, composed by Pulisa, 

I V , Itomaka-nldd?LtU so called from the Rum, f ie. 
the subjects of the Roman Empire, composed by 
Srisheria. 

V. Brahma^dddhmUa, so called from Brahman, com- 
posed by Brahmagupta, the son of Jishnn, from the 
town of Rhillamila between Multan and Anhilwftra, 
1 6 yojana from the latter place (?). 

The authors of these books draw from one and the 
same source, the Book PaUhdviaha, so called from the 
Jird father t ix. Brahman. 

VarAhamihira has composed an astronomical hand- 
book of small compass called Fa T xa-siddhdnt iktl, which 
name ought to mean that it contains the pith and mar- 
row" of the preceding five Siddhantas, But this is not 
the Case, nor is it so much better than they as to be 
called the most correct one of the five* So the name 
does not indicate anything but the fact that the number 
of Siddhantas is five. 

Brahmagupta says: "Many of the Siddhantas are 
Silrya, others Indu, Pulisa, B.omaka, Yasishtha, and 
Yavana, i.e. the Greeks; and though the Siddhantas are 
many, they differ only in wordE, not in the subject- 


ALBERUNI’S INDIA. 


1 ■'>!;« ?4 


Coidxmlij of 

Jktf- 

tiiddM Mto . 


154 

matter. He who studies them properly will Dud that 
they agree with each other." 

Up to the present time I have not been able to pro- 
cure any of these books save those of 1 hi lisa and of 
Brahmagupta. I have commenced translating the ns , 
but have not yet finished my work. Meanwhile I shall 
give here a table of contents of the Brahma -siddh &n&i 9 
which in any case will be useful and instructive. 

Contents of the twenty-four chapters of the Brahvm- 
siddhdnia — 

1 . On the nature of the globe and the figure of heaven 
and earth. 

2. On the revolutions of the planets ; on the calcula- 
tion of time, i.e. how to find the time for different longi- 
tudes and latitudes ; how to find the mean places of the 
planets ; how to find the sine of an arc. 

3< On the correction of the places of the planets. 

4. On three problems : how to find the shadow, the 
bygone portion of the day and the asemdem^ and how 
to derive one from the other* 

5. On the planets becoming visible when they leave 
the rays of the sun, and their becoming invisible when 
entering them. 

6* On the first appearance of the moon, and about 
her two cusps* 

7. On the lunar eclipse. 

S. On the solar eclipse. 

9. On the shadow of the moon. 

10. On the meeting and conjunction of the planets. 

1 I, On the latitudes of the planets. 

12. A critical investigation for the purpose of dis- 
tinguishing between correct and corrupt passages in the 
texts of astronomical treatises and handbooks. 

] 3. On arithmetic ; 011 piano measure and cognate 
subjects. 

14, Scientific calculation of the mean places of the 
planets. 


CHAPTER XIV ’ 155 

r 5. Scientific calculation of the correction of the 
places of the planets. 

1 6. Scientific calculation of the three problems (v, 
chap. 4). 

17. On the deflection of eclipses. 

18. Scientific calculation of the appearance of the 
new moon and her two cusps. 

19.. On I&ittaka, Le. the pounding of a thing. The 
pounding of oil-p rorli icing substances is here compared 
with the most minute and detailed rvsmreh. This ch apter 
treats of algebra and related subjects, and besides it 
contains other valuable remarks of a more or less 
arithmetical nature. 

20. On the shadow, 

21. Oil the calculation of the measures of poetry and 
on metrics, 

22. On cycles and instruments of observation. 

23. G11 time and the four measures of time, the solar, 
the dvili the hmm\ and the sidermL 

24. About numeral notation in the metrical books of 
this kind, 

The.se, now, are twenty-four chapters, according to 
bis own statement, but there is a twenty-fifth one, 
called Dhy&na-grtiha-ctdhy&ya) in which he tries to 
solve the problems by speculation, not by mathematical 
calculation. f have not enumerated it in this list f 
because the pretensions which he brings forward in 
this chapter are repudiated by mathematics, I am 
rather inclined to think that that which he produces is 
meant to bo the ral-io mdaphync a of all astronomical 
methods, otherwise how could any problem of this 
science be solved by anything save by mathematics V 

Such books as do not reach the standard of a Shl- 
d hunt a are mostly called Tan Ira or /Car ana. The 
former means ruling under a governor, the latter means 
following^ iai, following behind the Siddlianta. Under 
governors they understand the Acdryas, the sages, 
anchorites, the followers of Brahman. 


On tlic 
LitoTatuFH of 
J ; .] 1 t.n 1 - :iud 
KAh-:i|ias. 


A LB BRUNTS INDIA. 


7$r 


There are two famona Tntrirtts by Aryabhata ail d 
Balahhadra^ besides the J\m&yanaAa7d?tt- by BJuin-u- 
yasm (?). About what Rasayana means we shall give a 
separate chapter (chap, xyii). 

As for Karwia^ there is one (lacuna) called by his 
name, besides the Kara na- hha n da-Iduidtjaka by Brah- 
magupta. The last word, Ichrmda, means a kind of 
their sweetmeats. With regard to the reason why he 
gave his book this title, I have been told the follow- 
ing:— 

Sugr'iva, the Buddhist, bad composed an astrono- 
mical handbook which he called DadJd-$dfjam 3 £e. 
the sea of sour-miSk ; and a pupil of his composed a 
book of the same kind which he called Kdra-babayd (?), 
ie, a mountain of rice. Afterwards 3 jo composed an- 
other book which he called Zamna-mushti, i.t. a hand- 
fni of salt. Therefore Brahmagupta called bis book 
the Sweetmeat* — -kk tidy aka — in order that all kinds of 
victuals (souv-milk, rice 3 salt, k) should occur in the 
titles of the books on this science. 

The contents of the book Karaim- 1 'has} da-hkddyaha 
represent the doctrine of Aryabhata. Therefore Brah- 
magupta afterwards composed a second hook, which he 
called UHara-Jcha nda-fchd dyaka , Le. the explanation of 
the Kha mpidch&dyaka . And this book is again followed 
by another one called Khanda-kkddyaha^iippd (sic), of 
which T do not know whether it is composed by Brah- 
magupta or somebody else. It explains the reasons 
and the nature of the calculations employed in the 
Kha fida-kk (idyaka* 1 suppose it Is a work of Bala- 
bhadra’s. 

farther, there is an aftronomicaL handbook composed 
by Vijayanandiu, the commentator, in the city of 
Benares, entitled Karana-i ilnka, i.c+ the blase on the 
front of the Karan as; another one by Vittel vara the 
son of Bliadatta (? M ihdatta), of the city of Nagarapura, 
called Jiaruua-mra, i.e. that which has been derived 


CHAPTER XIV \ 


157 


from the Kanina; another one, by BMnuyasas (?) T is 
called JCa ran a -/ jara-tilaha r which shows, as l am told, 
how the corrected places of the stars are derived from 
one another. 

There is a book by Utpala the Kashmirian called 
Ix&h iinrtilcara na (?), i.e, breaking the Karan as; and 
another called lOtraya^p&ia, ia, killing the Kaninas, 
Besides there is a book called Karana-e^lddm.ani of 
which I do not know the author. 

There are more books of the same kind with other 
titles, e.g, the great composed by Mann, and the 

commentary by Utpala; the small Mdmfsa^ an epitome 
of the former by Finical a (?), from the southern country ; 
DvhgUiM, by Aryabhata; A r$$Uamta t by the same: 
LokAnando, so called from the name of the author ; Bhai- 
tiltl (?), so called from its author, the Brahman Bhattila, 
The books of this kind are nearly innumerable. 

As for astrological literature) each one of the follow- 
ing authors lias composed a so-called Sumhitd, viz. : — 


Mrli.uk :vya. 
P&rfi£a.ra. 
Garga, 
Brahman, 


Bivyatattva, 

Varahamihira, 


Sti-ftiMfA means that which is collected 3 books containing 
something of everything, e.g. forewarnings relating to a 
jou rney derived from meteorological occurrences ; pro- 
phecies regarding the fate of dynasties ; the knowledge 
of lucky and unlucky things; prophesying from the 
\ in i* s of tli e h an d ; i 11 terpretat ion of d re am s, a n d tak lug 
auguries from the flight or cries of birds. For Hindu 
scholars believe in such things. It is the custom of 
their astronomers to propound in their Sain h lifts also 
the whole science of meteorology and cosmology. 

Each one of the following authors has composed a 
hook, Jdtaka, i.e. book of nativities* vjb, : — - 

Par^Etra, J'LvasFlrmaii. 

8a1;ya. Man, the Greek, 

Manittha-, 


Oil 

r 5(.!UL SUt!«L- 
hire, Oiu 

aft. 

Sym'jUyw. 


Thu JjUiI- 

bii.H., j,r; 

J HI, ..]£■; I in 
natf Titles 


ALBER UN PS INDIA, 


Pagd 76. 


Marilen] 

Jitrfjvatiira. 


I5S 

Yamhamilura has composed two JMakas., a email and 
a large one, The latter of these lias been explained 
by Balabhadra, and the former T have translated into 
Arabic, Fu r th er „ the Hind n s h av e a I urge b 00 k on t h 0 
science of the astrology of nativities called Sdnlva/i, 
the chosen one, similar to the Vctzidfrj (— Persian 
f/uzida ?), composed by K&ly una- Ya rm an , who gained 
high credit for his scientific works. But there is 
another book still larger than this, which comprehends 
the whole of astrological sciences, called Y*n:ana, i.e. 
belonging to the Greeks, 

Of Varahamihira there are several small books, r// t 
Shat-pwited&iM, fifty-six chapters on astrology; Hord- 
2^mm-hotriT/H (?) ? on the same subject. 

Travelling is treated of in the book Yognjjdtrd and 
the book Tika^ii{T)-yo,trd^ marriage and marrying in the 
book Viviiha-patala-, architecture in the book (faevntt^ 

The art of taking auguries from the flight or cries 
of birds, and of the foretelling by means of piercing a 
needle into a book, is propounded in the work called 
SviuUiara (?£rotayya), which exists in three different 
copies, Mah a dev a is said to be the author of the first, 
Vi mala burl dhi the author of the second, and Bart gala the 
author of the third. Similar subjects arc treated in the 
boob Q-iUdluirn ana (?), i.e. the knowledge of the un- 
known. composed by Buddha, the originator of the sect 
of the red robe- wearers, the Shumanians; and in the 
book jPmina- GiUttidmana (?), *>♦ questions of the science 
of the unknown, composed by Utpala. 

Besides, there are Hindu scholars of whom we know 
the names ? but not the title of any book of theirs, vie. : — 

PriLdyumitfu SjLraayata, 

Safi gab ilu (Spkkli&la. ?}. Plmvftna (7). 

Dirakara. Devaklrtti. 

PareBva Tfl-f Frit.luVlaka- svilmi n . 

Medicine belongs to the saute class of sciences as 
astronomy, but there is this difference, that the latter 


CHAPTER XI V. 


*S9 

stands in close relation to the religion of the Hindus, 
They have a book called by the name of its author, 
i.e. Caraka, which they consider as the best of their 
whole literature on medicine* According to their belief, 
Car aka was a Rishi in the last Dvilpara-yugtu when 
his name was Ag-mvem-, but afterwards lie was called 
Ca/raka , Le. the intelligent one, after the first elements 
of medicine had been laid down by certain j vising the 
children of S4tm. These latter li ad received them from 
Indra, In r Ira from Asvm T one of the two physicians of 
the Devas } and A&vin had received them from. ITajd- 
patij i.e. brahman, the furst father* This book has been 
translated into Arabic for the princes of the house of 
the Barmecides* 

The Hindus cultivate numerous other branches of 
science and literature, and have a nearly boundless 
literature, I, however, could not comprehend it with 
my knowledge. I wish I could translate the book 
PaJicatanira^ known among lis as the book of Kali la 
and Dimna. It is far spread in various languages, in 
Persian, Hindi, and Arabic — in translations of people 
who are not free from the suspicion of having altered 
t he t ext. For in sta nee, T A b d al lah I bn A 1 m u k affa h as 
added in his Arabic version the chapter about Barzdya, 
with the intention of raising doubts in the minds of 
people of feeble religions belief, and to gain and prepare 
them for the propagation of the doctrines of the Mani- 
chi-cans. And if he is open to suspicion in so far as he 
has added something to the text which he had simply 
to translate, ho is hardly free from suspicion in his 
capacity as translator. 


Otl F:lj'k 
tauetftt. 


( ' 6 ° ) 


CHAPTER XV. 

NOTES ON HINDU METROLOGY, INTENDED TO FACILITATE 
THE UNDERSTANDING OP ALL KINDS OF MEASURE- 
MENTS WHICH OCCUR IN THIS BOOK. 

Tii* hi i mI ii Counting is innate to man. The measure of a thing 

system nf . . t 1 H . . 0 

wmgjiu, becomes known by its being compared with, another 

thing which belongs to the same species and is assumed 

as a unit by general consent. Thereby the difference 

between the object and this standard becomes known. 

By weighing, people determine the amount of gravity 
o£ heavy bodies, when the tongue of the scales stands 
at right angles on the horizontal plane, Hindus want 
the scales very little, because their dirhams are deter- 
mined by number, not by weight, and their fraction s t 
too, are simply counted as so-and-so many fuMs* The 
coinage o£ both dirhams and ful&s is different accord- 
ing to towns and districts. They weigh gold with the 
scales only when it is in its natural state or such as 
has been worked, e.g w for ornaments, but not coined. 
They use as a weight of gold the mvarna = i J tola * 
They use the tola as frequently as we use the mitkML 
According to what I have been able to learn from them, 
it corresponds to three of our dirkams, of which io 
equal 7 mtihk&L 

Therefore 1 tola = 2 T V of our mtihk&L 

The greatest fraction of a tola- is called rtttUha. 
Therefore 16 mdsha= 1 sumrna. 


CHAPTER XV, 


6r 


Further, 

i mdsha ~ 4 tindi (eraw^cc), i r e t the seed of el tree 
called Oa%tra. 

] flwii = 4 1/ara, 

i yct-m — 6 iairSl. 

T &&Z4 — 4 JTiiWit, 

I — 4 mdrt (?,U 

Arranged differently we have — 

i tmvantsi — n 5 witMa- = 64 <itt# - 25 S — i6ooAa?rf — 

£400 p Ida = 2$ t 6oow.drt (?). 

Six mdskas are called ] dravikshana* If yon ask 
L h em ab ou t tk is weight, t h e y w ill t el 1 v ou th at 2 i In t it l - 
sha-tm = 1 viithML But this is a mistake for 1 
mithktll— 50. The relation between a €&Ym£- 

skttna and a miihfoU is as 20 to 21, and therefore 1 
drmlkskana = i-^V mitkkdL If* therefore, a man gives 
the Answer which we have just mentioned, lie seems to 
have in mind the notion of a viithkdl as a weight, which 
does not mncli differ from a drankshana : but by 
doubling the amount, saying 2 rfratilcmanas instead of 
I, he entirely spoils the comparison. 

Since the unit of measure is not a natural unit, ^ 77- 
hut a conventional one assumed bv general consent, it 
admits of both practical and imaginary division. Its 
subdivisions or fractions are different in different places 
at one and the same time, and at different periods 
in one and the same country* Their names, too, are 
different according to places and times ; changes which 
arc produced either by the organic development of lan- 
guages nr by accident. 

A man from the neighbourhood of Soman at h told me 
that their mithkdl is equal to curs ; that 

I mithkAl = 8 TUf-U, 
i mm — 3 pdH, 
i p'Ui = 1 6 i/iiw, i.$, harloy^oorn. 

Accordingly i wiithMl = S rttvw = pdli — 256 yam* 

This comparison shows that the man was mistaken 

YOk L L 


ALBERUNPS INDIA. 


Vji.r4h.iiiD L* 
3 I LTil tl]l 

weights. 


Weights 
HfiCGrding 
the l>?i.ik 
U&mlv.. 


162 

in comparing the two mithhUs ; that what he called 
mithkCiU is in reality the tola f and that lie calls the 
m dsha by a different name, viz, ruvu. 

If the Hindus wish to be particularly painstaking in 
these things . they give the following scale, based on the 
measurements which Varahamihira prescribes for the 
construction of ido-ls:— 

l rn\'U nr particle of dust — j rajtj,. 

S- raja. = 1 Ml^gra, Le, the end of a hair, 

S lAhigra — 1 Ukhyt 7 t i.f. the egg of a Ions*, 

8 likhyd - i ytiM, i.c, ft louse. 

S y&A’ii = 1 ffava, i.e. a barley-corn. 

* 

Hence, VarSihaujihLra goes onto enumerate the measures 
for distances. His measures of weight are the same as 
those which wo? have already mentioned. He says 1 

4 yavit = i snrff. 

4 <mdt = 1 <m-ihha+ 

16 'rndsha ~ 1 swta.rviij., gold. 

4 sum-foya. = 1 pula. 

The measures of dry substances are the following 

4 pi/fr. — 1 fcudam* 

4 Jc-ufiava — 1 pra&tha. 

^ pr&'&h. a = 1 urfhtjtka- 

The measures of liquid substances are the following: — 

5 pola = 1 Jcmlawt . 

S kiithiVil = l prtriihit: 

4 pr/j-y.htu ■— i mlkaka, 

4 > 1 .dh<tka> - i droncu 

The following weights occlei 1 in the book Garaka. I 
give them here according to the Arabic translation, as 
I have not received them from the Hindus viva voce. 
The Arabic copy seems to be corrupt, like all other 
books of this kind which I know. Such corruption 
must of necessity occur in our Arabic writing, more 
particularly at a period like ours, when people care 


CHAPTER XV . r 63 

so little about tie correctness of what they copy. 
l ' Atreya says : 

6 particles uf du&b = 1 mfltrfffi. 

6 Haw-lex — 1 mustard- seed (rrf/Jfci). 

& mn&tJHdh&eedta = 1 red rice -com, 

2 red lice-cornfl — 1 pen. 

2 pens = 1 (in^T 

And 1 attdf is equal to i ddnak, according to the 
scale by which / ddnak are equal to one dirham. 
Further ; 

4 wndi = I mtUha. 

8 mitehx = 1 asafl C). 

\ 1 kftrsha or zumr/ia of the 
2 ea^ft — j we jght. 0 | 3 tlirhtmt- * 

4 iWJci^FOT - i pahi. 

4 jpaJtt — 1 fpudava. 

4 ivif/fiiiu = \ -pr<Mf.h\t . 

4 pmsiAtt =r i rt£Aa£a» 

4 (fr/tado- ~ 1 droha. 

2 dro’/ia = 1 Stirpn. 

2 fa Irpa — t jiuM (1).** 

The weight ptdtt is much used in all the business 
dealings of the Hindus., but it is different for different 
wares and in different provinces, According to some, 

1 pida = y 1 -- tit tend ,* according to others, 1 peda =14 
mitkkdl ; but the mand- is not equal to 210 mikhk&L 
According to others, t pala ?= 16 juitkkdly but the 
mand is not equal to 240 mithk&L According to others, 

; pttla — 15 dirham t but the mand is not equal to 225 
(l iyha w. In reality, however, the relation between the 
jxda. and the mmd is different. 

Further, A trey a says : “ I dilkuka — 64 pah — 12S Fags 
dirlimh = 1 rati. But if the andi is equal to -J ddnak, 
one mrjrnia contains 64 andi, and then a dirham has 
32 nr it ft which, as each andi is equal to l ddnak, are 
equal to 4 ddnak. The double amount of it is 1 4 dir- 
ham** (sid). 

Such are the results when people, instead of trains 
latiug, indulge in wild conjecture and mingle together 
different theories in an uncritical maimer. 


A LllER UNI’S INDIA , 


Tari n«n 
authors on 
T.--:iufl itrt r 


The Hindu 
tjaUlJCG. 


l6+ 

As regards the first theory, resting on the ns sumption 
of one siminut. being equal to three of our dirhams, 
people in general agree in this — that 

1 iumrna — J pala. 

1 paid = 1 z dirhwiu 
1 pala = ^ mcffid. 

1 mand - 180 ddrham. 

This leads rne to think that t simwna is equal to 3 
(.if our mUhhll^ not to 3 of our drrJiavu 

V ar&hamihira says in another place of his S&xhhitd: 

"Make a round vase of the diameter and height of 
one yard, and then expose it to the rain until it ceases. 
All the water that has been collected in it of the weight 
of 200 dir I/f oif is, if taken fourfold, equal to 1 ddbaka,** 

This, however, is only an approximate statement* 
because, as we have above mentioned in Ids own words* 
1 ddhttka is equal to yCS either dirktvm^ as they say, or 
■miihhtt, as I suppose* 

Sri pala relates* on the authority of Varfthamihira, that 
50 pala =2^6 dirham = 1 udhaka. But lie is mistaken, 
for here the number 256 does not mean dirhams, but the 
number of the su var-rui contal ned i 11 one &t iko.hr. And the 
number of pala contained in ! ddhaka is 64. not 50. 

As I have been told, Jivasarman gives the following 
detailed account of these weights : 

4 pahr. — | iMshmd. 

4 b&davft. — 1 prmtM, 

4 prasihd = I ddhabtr 
4 tidhakd = I drufui- 
20 dr ana = 1 JcMrt. 

The reader must kuow that 16 mdsha are 1 suvarna, 
but in weighing wheat, or barley they reckon 4 swrarya 
= 1 pala, and in weighing water and oil they reckon 8 
suvartja = 1 -pala. 

The balances with which the Hindus weigh things 
are } of which the weights are immovable, 

whilst the scales move on certain marks and lines* 


CHAPTER XV. 


il^S 

Therefore the balance is called fold. The first lines 
mean the units of the weight from 1 to 5,, and farther 
on to to: the following lines mean the tenths lo, 20, 

30, &c. With regard to the cause of this arrangement 
they relate the following saying of Vasudeva : — 

"I will not kill Siinpala, the son oi my aunt, if lie- 
lias not committed a crime, but will pardon him until 
ten, and then 1 shall call him to account. 53 

We shall relate this story on a. later opportunity, 

Alfasari nses in his astronomical handbook the word 
'pala for da/y-minuies (ij;. sixtieth parts of a day). I have 
not found this use anywhere in Hindu literature, but 
they use the word to denote n correct iim in a mathe- 
matical sense. 

The Hindus have a weight called Ikd-ra, which is 
mentioned in the books about the conquest of Sindh, 

It is equal to 2000 pala ; for they explain it by roo X 
20 pala f and as nearly equal to the weight of an ox. 

This is all I have lighted on as regards Hindu 
weights. 

By measuring (with dry measures) people determine ihy 
the body and the bulk of a thing* if it fills up a certain 
measure which has been gauged as containing a certain 
quantity of it, it being understood that the way in r^ 79 , 
which the things are laid out in the measure* the way 
in which their surface is determined, and the way in 
which, on the whole, they are arranged within the 
measure, are in every case identical, if two objects 
which are to be weighed belong to the same species* 
they then prove to be equal, not only in bulk, but also 
in weight ; but if they do not belong to the same species, 
their bodily extent is equal, but not their weight, 

They have a measure called list (? sill). which is 
men ti on r d by e v ery m an f ro m K an a n j ai 1 d So m an & tl 1 . 
According, to the people of Jxnnuuj — 


-| bid — l pmstha. 
rj: £| tut ~ 1 bitdiiva. 


1 66 


A LBE R UNFS I NDIA > 


JtfoaaureB □[ 

lUaUuKita. 


According to the people of bsomamith — 

16 hist = I pi tuft r 
1 2 punti — [ mar*!.. 


According to another theory — ■ 

12 bid s= I fodv.d- 
4 btsi = I -t'/ldi Lit. 

From the same source I learnt that a md?m of wheat 
is nearly equal to 5 mrmfi* Therefore I hut (?) is 
equal to 20 mand. The hist corresponds to the lv bw.il - 
rizmiau measure mkJiJch, according to old style, whilst 
the kalaM corresponds to the Khwfirizmian fjhxlr, for 
t gk&r — 12 sukkhh. 

Mensuration is the determination of distances by 
lines and of superficies by planes* A plane ought to 
be measured by part of a plane* but the mensuration 
by means of lines effects the same purpose, as lines 
determine the limits of planes. When, in quoting 
Var&hamihira, we had come so far as to determine the 
weight of a barley -coni (p. 162), we made a digression 
into an exposition of weighty where ive used his 
authority about gravity, and now we shall return to 
him and consult him about distances. He says — 


S barley-corns put together - t u %idit , Lt\ finger. 

4 fingers = 1 r&mti [?), Le* the fist, 

24 fiugei'i = 1 Jia/thtif i.e. yard, also called tfovta' 

4 yards = r tlAunu, i-v. arc — a fatlioiiu 

40 arcs = I nalva.. 

2 ^ wdva- = 1 


Hence it follows that 1 krok = 4000 yards; and as 
our mile has just so many yards. 1 utile = 1 Arch* 
Hulisa the Greek also mentions in his SiddMnta that 
1 krok = 4000 yards. 

The yard is equal to 2 inikt/ds or 24 lingers ; for the 
Hindus determine the kmkxt, i.e . mikyds, by idol -fingers. 
They do not call the twelfth part of a a finger 

in general, as we do, but their mikt/ds is always a spun. 
The span, i.e. the distance between the ends of the 


CHAPTER XV. 16/ 

thumb and the small finger at their widest possible 
stretching, is called mtadi and also Irishka. 

The distance between the ends of the fourth or ring- 
finger and the thumb, both being stretched out, is called 
gokarna. 

The distance between the ends of the index-finger 
and of the thumb is called kavobka, and is reckoned us 
equal to two-thirds of a span. 

The distance between the tops of the middle finger 
and of the tine mb is called itila. The Hindus maintain 
that the height, of a man is eight times his tdla t whether 
lie be tall or sinulL : as people say with regard to the 
foot, that it is one-seventh of the height of a man. 

Regarding the construction of idols, the book Sarhhitd 
says ! — 

(i The breadth of the palm has been determined as 6 r 
the length as 7 ; the length of the middle finger as 5, 
that of the fourth, finger as the same ; that of the index- 
fin gar as the same minus -j- (i.e. 4-) ; that of the small 
finger as the same mimts T (i.e. 3J) j that of the thumb 
as equal to two-thirds of the length of the middle finger 
(i.e. 3-t), so that the two last fingers are of equal length." 

By the measurements and numbers of this .passage, I'asoBa, 
the author means idol-fingers* 

After the measure of the JcroSa has been fixed and 
found to be equal to our wi ile , the reader must learn 
that they have a measure of distances, called yojam t f m± ' lJ£t, * aUL 
which is equal to S miles or to 32.000 yards. Perhaps 
somebody might believe that 1 kroh Is = \ farmikk, 
and maintain that the far&akhs of the Hindus are 
i 6,000 yards long. But such is not the case. On 
the contrary, 1 kroh - 1 yojmuu In the terms of 
this measure, Alfaaftri has determined the circumfer- 
ence of the earth in Ins astronomical handbook. He 
calls it yd a, in the plural ’qjwdn. 

The elements of the calculations of the Hindus on action 
the circumference of the circle rest on the assumption 


A LEER UN VS INDIA . 


dream fcr- 
e»<» and 
dlajjittter. 


e6S 

that it is. ifs Ho the. 

says, after it has mentioned the diameters of the sun 
and moon in yojana& : 4t The circumference is thrice 
the diameter.” 

The Aditya-Pkr&na says, after it lias mentioned the 
breadth of the Dvtipas, hr. the islands and of their 
surrounding seas : K The circumference is thrice the 
diameter. 5 ' 

The same occurs also in the V&yu-Purdna* In later 
times, however, Hindus have become aware of the 
fraction following after the three wholes. According 
to Brahmagupta, the circumference is 3I times the 
diameter ; but he finds this number by a method 
peculiar to himself. He says: “As the root of 10 
is nearly 3^ the relation between the diameter and 
its circumference is like the relation between I and 
the root of io. fl Then he multiplies the diameter 
by itself, the product by 10, and of this product he 
takes the root. Then the circumference is solid, i.u. 
consists of integers, in the same way aa the root of 
ten. This calculation, however, makes the fraction 
larger than it really is, Archimedes defined it to be 
something between ) {[ and PJ-. Brahmagupta relates 
with regard to Aryabhata, criticising him, that he 
fixed the circumference as 3393 ; that lie fixed the dia- 
meter in one place as to8o, in another place as 1050. 
According to the first statement, the relation between 
diameter and circumference would be like 1 : 3 A 7 ..- 
Thts fraction ( *J (j ) is by A smaller than }* However, 
ns regards the second statement, it contains no doubt a 
blunder in the text, not of the anther ; for according to 
the text, the relation would be like r : 3I and some- 
tin ng over. 

Pulisa employs this relation in lhs calculations in 
the proportion of 1 : 3 

This fraction is here by so much smaller than one- 
seventh as it is according to Aryabhata, hr. by L \. 


CHAPTER XV. 


169 

The same relation is derived from the old theory, 
which Yakub Ibn Tarik mentions in his book, Com- 
posili# Spkwrarum^ on the authority of hi a Hindu 
informant, vis, that the circumference of the zodiac 
is 1,256,640,000 yojancb i and that its diameter is 
400,000,000 yojana. 

These numbers presuppose the relation between cir- 
cumference and diameter to be as 1 r 3 TTiWViilWTr* 
These two numbers may be reduced by the common 
divisor of 360,000. Thereby we get T77 as numerator 
and 1250 as denominator. And this is the fraction 
( i '/sV) which I* u lisa has adopted. 


( ) 


r,'i#e St. 


Osi v aiicus 
kinds of 
writing 

UlLit-Lii.-Ll. 


CHAPTER XVL 

notes on the whiting of the h indue, on tjtkiu 

ABJTlBfETIC AND HE L AT ED SUBJECTS* AMD ON CER- 
TAIN stuange manners and CUSTOMS of theirs. 

The tongue communicates the thought of the speaker 
to the hearer,. Its action lias therefore, as it were t a 
momentary life only , and it would have been impos- 
sible to deliver by oral tradition the accounts of the 
events of the past to later generations* more particularly 
if they are separated from them by long periods of 
time. This lias become possible only by a new dis- 
covery of the human mind, by the art of writing, which 
spreads news over space as the winds spread, and over- 
time as the spirits of the deceased spread. Praise 
therefore be unto Him who has arranged creation and 
created everything for the best ! 

The Hindus are not in the habit of writing on hides, 
like the Greeks in ancient times, Socrates, on being 
asked why he did not compose books, gave this reply: 

I do not transfer knowledge from the living hearts of 
men to the dead, hides of sheep/ 1 Muslims, too, used 
in the early times of Islam t.o write on hides, e.jj. the 
treaty between the Prop bet and the Jews of Khaibar 
and his letter to Kisrih The copies of the Koran were 
written on the hides of gazelles, as are still nowadays 
the copies of the Thor a. There occurs this passage in 
the Koran (Sura vi. 91): “ They make it. karat fa;* -i,e, 
r updfuu. The kiv(d$ (or ckarUt) is made in Egypt, 


CHAPTER XV L 


171 


being cat out of the papyrus stalk. Written on this 
material, the orders of the Khalils went out into all the 
world until shortly before our time. Papyrus has this 
advantage over vellum, that you can neither rub out 
nor change anything on it, because thereby it would be 
destroyed. It was in China that paper was first manu- 
factured, Chinese prisoners introduced the fabrication 
of paper into Samarkand, and thereupon it was made 
in various places, so as to meet the existing want. 

The Hindus have in the south of their country a 
slender tree like the date and cocoa-nut palms, bearing 
edible fruits and leaves of the length of one yard, and 
as broad as three lingers one put beside the other* 
They cull these leaves tdri (tidin or t&r = B ora ssus Jla - 
hdliformis), and write on them. They bind a bonk of 
these leaves together by a cord on which they ate 
arranged, the cord going through all the leaves by a 
hole in the middle of each. 

In Central and Northern India people use the bark of 
the tilz tree, one kind of which is used as a cover for 
bows, it is called hkurja. They take a piece one yard 
long and as broad as the outstretched lingers of the 
hand, or somewhat less, and prepare it in various ways. 
They oil and polish it so as to make it hard and smooth, 
and then they write on it. The proper order of the 
single leaves is marked by numbers. The whole book 
is wrapped up in a piece of cloth and fastened between 
two tablets of the same size. Such a book is called 
piWd (cf. 'pmio , 7 pustakdp Their letters, and whatever 
else they have to write, they write on the bark of the 
tm tree. 

As to the writing or alphabet of the I fin das, we have 
already mentioned that it once had been lost and for- 
gotten ; that nobody cared for it, and that In conse- 
quence people became illiterate, sunken into gross 
ignorance, and entirely estranged from science, But 
then Vyasa, the soil of Par {liar a, rediscovered their 


On the 
Hindu 
ntijlnibcL 


IJ2 


A LB E RUNTS INDIA. 


alphabet of fifty letters by an inspiration of God. A 
letter is called akskura. 

Some people say that originally the number of their 
letters was less, and that it increased only by degrees. 
This Is possible, or I should even say necessary. As for 
the Greek alphabet, a certain A&tdhas (pic) had formed 
sixteen characters to perpetuate science about the time 
when the Israelites ruled over Egypt. Thereupon 
Kimmh (sic) and Agenon (sic) brought them to the 
Greeks. By adding four new signs they obtained an 
alphabet of twenty letters. Later on, about the time 
when Soe-raLes was poisoned, Simonides added four 
iVgfcEs. other signs, and so the Athenians at last had a complete 
alphabet of twenty-four letters, which happened during 
the reign of Art&xerxes, the soil of Darius, the son of 
Artaxerxes, the sou of Cyrus, according to the chrono- 
graphers of the West. 

The great number of the letters of the Hindu alpha- 
bet is explained, firstly, by the fact, that they express 
every letter by a separate sign if it is followed by a 
vowel or a diphthong or a hamza (visarga), or a small 
extension of the sound beyond the measure of the 
vowel ; and, secondly, by the fact that they have con- 
sonants which are not found together in any other 
language, though they may be found scattered through 
different, languages — sounds of such a nature that our 
tongues, not being familiar with them, can scarcely pro- 
nounce them, and that our ears are frequently not able 
to distinguish between many a cognate pair of them. 

The Hindus write from the left to the right like the 
Greeks, They do not write on the basis of a line, 
above which the heads of the letters rise whilst their 
tails go clown below, as in Arabic writing. On the 
contrary, their ground-line is above, a straight line 
above every single character, and from this line the 
letter hangs down and is written under it. Any sign 
above the line is nothing but a grammatical mark to 


chapter XVI. 


173 


denote the pronunciation of the character above which 
it stands 

The most Generally known alphabet is called Siddha- On the 1 

. . T . ....," 1 1 . . alpliitljuita oi 

mtUnkd, which is by some considered as originating tin; mi^us. 
from Kashmir* for the people of Kashmir use it. Hut. 
it is also used in Varanasi. This town and Kashmir are 
the high, schools of Hindu sciences. The same writing 
is used in Madhyadefo, he. the middle country, the 
country all around Kariauj, which is also called Ary a- 
varta. 

In Malava there is another alphabet called JS$gar$. t 
which differs fro in the former only in the shape of the 
characters. 

Next, conies an alphabet called ArfIJiandgm'%, he. half- 
n&gam, so called because it is compounded of the 
former two* It is used in lihatiya and some parts of 
Sindh. 

Other alphabets are the MahvdH t used in Mahvashau, 
in Southern Sind, towards the sea-coast ; the Saindhava, 
used in Babin an w ft. or Almansura ; the liar-tutta, used in 
Karnatadesa. whence those troops come which in the 
anil IBS are k n 0 wn as Kami a ra ; t h e A n dhrt f used in 
Andhradesa ; the Dirwari (Brrfvi{li), used in Dirwara- 
desa (I Jravidadcsa) ; the Ldri f used in Laradesa (Lilta™ 
desa) ; the Gauri (Gau$i), used in Purvadesa* ie, the 
Eastern country ; tin UkailcshmMt used in Udunpur in 
PurvadeSa. This last is the writing of Buddha. 

The Hindus begin their books with Qm t the word of r Jn ti,* 
creation, as we begin them with <f In the name of 
God*” The figure of the word &m is Q{/ This figure 
does not consist of letters 5 it is simply an image 
invented to represent this word, which people use, 
believing that it will bring them a blessing* and 
meaning thereby a confession of the unity of God. 

Similar to this is the manner in which the Jews write 
the name of God, viz. by three Hebrew' yotls* In the 
Thorn the word is written YBVE and pronounced 


174 


A L BE R UN PS INF) I A . 


On fc^idr 
numeral 
si ym. 


PAg-C Sj. 


Adonai ; sometimes they also say Yah. The word 
Adonai 3 which they pronounce* is not expressed in 
writing* 

The Hindus do not use the: letters of their alphabet 
for numerical notation* as we use the Arabic letters in 
the order of the Hebrew alphabet. As in different parts 
of India the letters have different shapes, the numeral 
signs, too, which are called anka, differ. The numeral 
signs which we use are. derived from the finest forms of 
the Hindu signs, Signs and figures are of no use if 
people do not know what they mean, but the people of 
Kashmir mark the single leaves of their books with 
figures which look like drawings or like the Chinese 
characters, the meaning of which can only be learned 
by a very long practice. However, they do not use 
them when reckoning in the sand. 

In arithmetic all nations agree that all the orders of 
numbers (ay, one, ten , hundred, thousand) stand in a 
certain relation to the ten ; that each order is the tenth 
part of the following and the tenfold of the preceding* 
I have studied the names of the orders of the numbers 
in various languages with all kinds of people with 
whom I have been in contact, and have found that no 
nation goes beyond the thousand. The Arabs, too, stop 
with the thousand, which is certainly the most correct 
and the most natural thing to do. 1 have written a 
separata' treatise on this subject. 

Those, however, who go beyond the thousand in their 
numeral system arc the Hindus, at least in their 
arithmetical technical terms, which have been either 
freely invented or derived according to certain etymolo- 
gies, whilst in others both methods are blended together. 
They extend the names of the orders of numbers until 
the iSth order for religious reasons, the mathematicians 
being assisted by the grammarians with all kinds of 
etymologies. 

The 1 8 th order is called Fardrdha, i.e. the half of 


CHAPTER X VI. 


l 7$ 


heaven, or, more accurately , th& half of that which is 
above* For if the Hindus construct periods of time out 
of Kalpa% the unit of this order is a day of God (ie> a 
half nycMJmnemn). And as we do not know any bod)* 
larger than heaven, half of it: (pardrdha), as a half of 
i the greatest body, Las been compared with a half of the 
greatest day* By doubling it, by uniting night to day, 
we get the whole of the greatest day. There can he no 
doubt that the name Pwtirdha is accounted for in this 
way, and that part tv means the whole of heaven* 

The following are the names of the eighteen orders of ti*o oi^bt- 

a n son ordain 

numbers of numera- 

tion- 


T. f'Jfa-fffl* 

2, Duvall. 

3- (S'fflif/vfu 

4 . Salitiwmfi. 

5. Ayut(i. 

fir Lafcsftti, 

7. Pray aiti. 

8. Koli. 

9. Ny/irlmdu , 


10. Padma* 

1 r . Khur vu: 

\ 2. Nikhfii'V-fl. 

13 . Moh&prtrfmt- 

14 . S f mik li , 

13, Samudra. 
ibr Madhya. 

17. A niff a* 

i&. FtirArdha. 


I shall now mention some of their differences of 
opinion relating to this system. 

Some Hindus maintain that there is a I Oth order v^^tio^ 

ocfnirrifi p 

beyond the Barordha y called Jjhv.rt, and that this is the m tbe 
limit of recto n iny. Butin real; ty ? 'ecJtoii mg is 11 n 1 i m i te d ; olhed, 1 
it has only a technical limit, which is convention ally 
adopted as the last of the orders of numbers. By the 
word reckoning in the sentence above they seem to mean 
nomenclature, as if they meant to say that the language 
Las no name for any reckoning beyond the 19th order. 

It is known that the unit of this order , i.c. one bhirn\ is 
equal to one-fifth of t-h & greatest dag. but on this subject 
they have no tradition. In their tradition there are 
only traces of combinations of the greatest day. as we 
shall hereafter explain* Therefore this 19th order 
is an addition of an artificial and hyper-accurate 
nature. 


F-h.lic Si). 


r 7 6 A LEER UNP S IN DIA . 

According to others* the limit, of reckoning is froti ; 
and starting from hoii the succession of the orders of 
numbers would be koii, thousands, hundreds, tenths; 
for the number of Devas is expressed in kolis. Ac- 
cording to their belief there are thirty -three kotis of 
Devas, eleven of which belong to each of the three 
beings. Brahman, .Karajan a, and M allude va. 

The names of the orders beyond that of the rSth 
have been invented by the grammarians, as we have 
said already (p. 174). 

Further, we observe that the popular name of the 
5 tli order is Bait 1 sahosra, that of l he 7th order t Bam- 
lakzha ; for the two names which we have mentioned in 
the list above {Ayula Prayuia) are rarely used. 

The hook of Aryabhata of Ensumapura gives the 
following names of the orders from the ten till JO 
koti ; — 

Ayutmh-r Koti patlma. 

N iptUtrh. Ptrrfijiti c/trt-x . 

Pn&ijrittwfi- 

Further, it is noteworthy that some people establish 
a kind of etymological relationship between the dif- 
ferent names; so they call the 6th order Niyuta, ac- 
cording to the analogy of the jt h s which is called 
A y id a. Further, they call the 8th order Arhuda, 
according to the analogy of the 9th, which is called 
Nyarhitda. 

There is a similar relation between Nikharm and 
Khar vet, the names of the 12th and nth orders i and 
between $anhu and Mahdlafdcu^ the names of the 13th 
and 14th orders. According to this analogy Mahn- 
padma ought to follow immediately after Fadma, but 
this latter is the name of the roth, the former the 
name of the 13th order. 

These are differences of theirs which can be traced 
back to certain reasons ; but besides, there are many 
differences without any reason, which simply arise 


CHAPTER XVI. 


U7 


from people dictating these names witiioi.it observing 
any fixed order, or from the fact that they hate to 
avow their ignorance by a frank / do not know , — a 
word which is difficult to them in any connection 
whatsoever. 

The Pu iim-dtldh an la gives the following list of the 
orders of the numbers : — 


4 . hiiwrmh i 

5. A y u Olm - 
fj. NfyubMo 
7, P-rnyutatit- 


S, tioiL 
g . Artnafi v4o 
10. Kh^rv cf- 


The following orders, from the nth till the iSth, are 
the same as those of the above-mentioned list. 

The Hindus use the numeral signs in arithmetic in 
the same way as we do, 1 have composed a treatise 
showing how far, possibly, the Hindus are ahead of ns 
in this subject. We have already explained that the 
Hind Lis compose their books in SI ok as. If. now, they 
wish, in their astronomical handbooks, to express some 
numbers of the various orders, they express them by 
words used to denote certain numbers either in one 
order alone or at the same time in two orders, teg. a 
word meaning either 20 or both. 20 and 200). For 
each number they have appropriated quite a great 
quantity of words. Hence, if one word does not suit 
the metre, you may easily exchange it for a synonym 
which suits, Brahmagupta says; “'If you want to 
write one, express it by everything which is unique, as 
the earth, the moon ; two by everything which is double, 
as, e,g> Mach and white ; three by everything which is 
threefold; the nought by kernm, the twelve by the 
names of the sun/* 

T have united in the following table all the ex- 
pressions for the numbers which I used to hear from 
them ; for the knowledge of these things is most 
essential for deciphering their astronomical handbooks, 

VOL* I. M 


Ninncs'.-i! 

notation. 


ALBERUJVFS INDIA, 


178 

Whenever I &shall come to know all the meanings of 
these words, I will add them, if (!od permits! 


□ = d&iitfa and L'Dt, Lml.li moan- 
ing point, 

gagatw t Le. heaven. 
viyat r ix. himven, 
ix. heaven. 
itmhant, ix. heaven, 

*fbhra t Le. heaven. 

1 -- itdi 7 ix. Huh bug] tilling 

itdm* 

mdu, 

■ urmrd „ dhtmtnh 
pildmtthJi, ix. the first 
father, 

conwfrw) ix. the moon. 
Atid/fim, i.£r the moon. 
r^a. 
rahni. 

2 = yama . 

ahdn. 

rnvkandra* 

iwttw.tj ix. Lhe Iavci i'VHjH, 

ukdd. 

davra* 

yamala , 

patethiti ix. the two halves 
of a month. 

)«<m* i'p c, tiae two eyes. 

3 — trife dJa t ix. the three pasts 

of time* 
trijagat. 

irayti.-fh. 

p&mfc&j 'mihrf.ntt-m 3 da- 
hana t taptm^ htfd^nn. 
jvtdawt, a ix. fire. 
[trig mu/. | ix. the three firsi 
forces, 

lob tj ix. tlic worlds, earth. 

heaven anti hell, 
trihilu. 

4 - i-t:da t ix- I. heir site red carle p 

because it- lias four parts . 


atmt.tidrtti kA?jfi m, ix* the 

oftdkL 

dwdhiy 

dw, Le. the four cardinal 
points. 

kriin-. 

5 — wr*t* 
tirilm . 

■mdrh/a T ix, the five 
senses. 


my/thi. 



V&Th&y 

fihMtf, 

uhu, 


Pdndmv . , ix* the five royal 
brothers, 

■ptrLtrin. m Argmut . 

6 — nttKi. 

aixfu. 

sh»L 

fiji* (J) the year, 

ritu (3)* 
itiiUdrdharfi< 

7 - a&a* 

jjwJtfdAant. 

parmitoi i.t; r the irmnn- 
tains. 

AitpUm. 

ntif/o, ix. the njoiin tains, 

adri. 

muni. 

S = tt-nhia. 
dh% mmlytihi. 

ditntin. 

9 — gft, chidrn, 

n/j.nda, pav/nm. 
randhnt, utittira. 
namu = cn 


Page 85. 


hits* Sfir 


Pass a?. 


CHAPTER XVI . 


179 


10 = dti, I'henfht, 

dM . RirvtTyi.iJ-sirrtA . 

1 1 = Rud/m , the destroy of of the 

world. 

jHuAdrfetatj i.e, the prince 
ol' the angela- 

i.f. the army 

Kura had, 

12 = t&nja , because there Lire 

twelve sunsr 
tiditt/fi . 

nrka. i.e. t.he sun. 
mdetii ftkdnu. 

[3 = vixva. 


t 4 ~ mcfttu, the lards af the 
f 0 ui'te 011 m<T.nvttJ! fa ra &• 

15 - tithi, t-c« 1 he lunar days in 

each half men Lb. 

16 — itxh-tL ■fifipa , bM^.i r 

17 - titjffwhH. 
i>i - dh-Htu 

19 - siUdftyitL 

20 - nakh a , Ir ttL 

21 — utScfitL 

22 = 

23 = 

24 = 

25 = frd(v«, i.t. the twenty- 

five 1 iiings j, Ul rough lilts 
knowledge of which lib- 
eration is obtained. 


As far as I have seen and heard of the Hindus, they 
do not usually go beyond twenty-five with this hind 
of numerical notation. 

We shall now speak of certain strange manners and 
customs of the Hindus. The strangeness of a thing 
evidently rests on the fact that it occurs but rarely, and 
that we seldom have the opportunity of witnessing it. 
IT such strangeness reaches a high degree, the thing 
becomes a cariosity* or even something like a miracle, 
which is no longer in accordance with the ordinary laws 
of nature, and which seems chimerical as long as it has 
not- been witnessed. Many Hindu customs differ from 
those of our country and of our time to such a degree 
as to appear to us simply monstrous. One might 
almost think that they had intentionally changed them 
into the opposite, for our customs do not resemble 
theirs, but are the very reverse ; and if ever a custom of 
theirs resembles one- of ours^ it has certainly just the 
opposite meaning. 

They do not cut any of the hair of the body. Originally 
they went naked in consequence of the heat, and by 
not cutting the hair of the head they intended to pre- 
vent sunstroke* 


Pritfii n. 


Str-ari gTi 

mriiLiiiMa 
; LtLi Url.L!^ cm I F-, 

<if tli 0 
Hindu a, 
Faff* 8y. 


ALBER VS PS INDIA , 


1 80 

They divide the moustache into single plaits in 
order to preserve it. As regards their not cutting 
the hair of the genitals, they try to make people 
believe that the cutting of it incites to Inst and 
increases carnal desire. Therefore such of them as 
feel a strong desire for cohabitation never cut the 
hair of the genitals. 

They let the nails grow long, glorying in their idle- 
ness* since they do not use them for any business or 
work, but only* while living a doles far nimir life, they 
scratch their heads with thorn and examine the hair for 
lice. 

The Hindus eat singly, one by one, oil a tablecloth 
of dung. They do not make use of the remainder of a 
meal, and the plates from which they have eaten are 
thrown away if they are earthen. 

They have red teeth in consequence of chewing arena- 
nuts with bateHeaves and chalk. 

They drink wine before having eaten anything, then 
they take their meal. They sip the stall of cows, but 
they do not eat their meat. 

They beat the cymbals with a stick. 

They use turbans for trousers. Those who want little 
dress are content to dress in a rag of two lingers 5 breadth, 
which they bind over their loins with l wo cords; but 
those who like much dress, wear trousers lined with 
so much cotton as would suffice to make a number of 
counterpanes and sad die -rugs. These trousers have no 
(visible) openings, and they are so huge that the feet 
are not visible. The string by which the trousers are 
fastened is at the back. 

Their siddr (a piece of dress covering the head 
and the upper part of breast and. neck) is similar to 
the iron sera, being also fastened at the back by 
buttons. 

The lappets of the kurtakas (short shirts from the 
shoulders to the middle of the body with sleeves, a 


chapter xvl 


i8t 

female dress) have slashes both on the right and left 
eides. 

They keep the shoes tight till they begin to put 
them on. They are turned down from the calf before 
walking (?).. 

In washing they begin with the feet, and then wash 
the face. They wash themselves before cohabiting with 
their wives. 

Cveimi simile# velvi pains inlis, dnm mnlieres ah imo 
si.tr mm movent tir vehrf oempati# in arando, maritas veto 
plane- oliosus mamL 

On festive days they besmear their bodies with dung 
instead of perfumes. 

The men wear articles of female dress ; they use 
cosmetics, wear earrings, arm-rings, golden seal -lings on 
the ling-finger as well as on the toes of the feet. 

Mi&n'et eos eatamUi el viri qui rebus tenereis/rtu non 
potest piishandila did% qv i p&mm bucca dewram semen 
dieit sorbetid'Uin. 

In mcando faciern vertunt versus muru-rn rdef/entes 
pudenda id videanittr a- vradereunlihus. 

Sacra famed viHlihns lifiga dietis, qim ed imago 
verd ri Malt a d cvce. 

They ride without a saddle, but if they put on a 
saddle, they mount tlio horse from its right side. In 
travelling they like to have somebody riding behind 
them. 

They fasten the huthdra t i.e. the dagger, at the waist 
on the right side. 

They wear a girdle called yajuoparUa, passing from 
the left shoulder to the right side of the waist. 

In all consultations and emergencies they take the 
advice of the women. 

When a child is bora people show particular atten- 
tion to the man, not to the woman. 

Of two children they give the preference to the 
younger, particularly in the eastern parts of the country ; 


ALBERUtftS INDIA. 


1 

for they maintain that the elder owes his birth to pre- 
dominant. lust, whilst the younger owes his origin to 
mature reflection and a calm proceeding,. 

In shaking hands they grasp the hand of a man from 
the convex side. 

They do not ask permission to enter a house, but 
when they leave it they ask permission to do so. 

In their meetings they sit cross-legged. 

They spit out and blow their noses without any 
respect for the older ones present , and they crack their 
lice before them. They consider the crepitus ventrix as 
a good omen, sneezing as a bad omen. 

They consider as unclean the weaver, but as clean 
the cupper and the flayer, who kills dying animals for 
money either by drowning or by burning. 

They use black tablets for the. children in the schools, 
and write upon them along the long side, not the broad 
side, writing with a white m item! from the left to the 
right. One would think that the author of the follow- 
ing verses had meant the Hindus: — 


“ How many a writer u^oh paper as black as charcoal. 
Whilst. Ms pen writer on it with white oolour. 

By wilting he places a bright [lay in a rkrk night., 
Wearing like v weaver, lmt without luUlirjg a wuof." 


They write the title of a book at the end of it, not at 
the beginning. 

They magnify the nouns of their language by giving 
them the feminine gender, as the Arabs magnify them 
by the diminutive form. 

If one of them hands over a thing to another, lie 
expects that it should be thrown to him as we throw a 
thing to the dogs. 

If two men play at Nitrd (backgammon), a third 
one throws the dice between them. 

They like the juice which flow r s over the checks of 


CHAPTER X V L 183 

the rutting elephant, which in reality has the most 
horrid smell. 

I11 playing chess they move the elephant straight on, on the 
not to the other sides* one square at a time, like the Jh^. 1j 
pawn, and to the four corners also one square at a time, 
like til e q u e era ( jvrzd ;•/ ) . They say that th ese ft ve sq 1 1 are s 
(i.e. the one straight forward and the others at the 
corners) are the places occupied by the trunk and the 
four feet of the elephant 

They play chess — four persons at a time — with a 
pair of dice. Their arrangement of the figures on the 
chess-board is the following : — 


T-Aver 

{V7J .(-A), 

Hora-®. 

' 

Ulopliant. 

Ki!>£, 



Fu wii . 

TcW BY. 

J 1 awn. 

Pawn* 

Pawn . 

Fnwn, 



Pawn. 

1 [nr^c. 







Pawn, 

EJfeplimir. 







Pawn , 


Kin if. 

Fami. 







Elaptiaut. 

Fji wn. 








I'iiWLJ. 



Pawn. 

P:t wb , 

P ik OTJ 1 , 

Fawn, 

Ttwer. 

Fiiwn, 



Kin if. 

Elepliftjit. 

Horn 

TijWfll 1 . 


ALBERUNPS INDIA . 


Prtgfi yr* 


t8 4 

Ah this kind of chess is not known among ns, 1 shall 
here explain what I know of it. 

The four p er son a pi ay i n g toget her sit ho as to form a 
square round a chess-board, and throw the two dice 
alternately. Of the numbers of the dice the five and 
six are blank (i.e> do not count as such)- In that 
case, if the dice show five or six, the player takes one 
instead of the five, and four instead of the six, because 
the figures of these two numerals are drawn in the 
following manner ; — 

6 5 

4 3 2 i 

so as to exhibit a certain likeness of form io 4 and 1, 
viz. in the Indian signs. 

The name Shdh or king applies here to the queen 
(jbTz&n). 

Each number of the dice causes a move of one of the 
figures. 

The 1 moves either the pawn or the king. Their 
moves are the same as in the common chess. Tim king 
may be taken, but is not required to leave bis place. 

The 2 moves the tower (rn-kh). It moves to the third 
square in the direction of the diagonal* as the elephant 
moves in mr chess. 

The 3 moves the horse. Its move is the generally 
known one to the third square in oblique direction. 

The 4 moves the elephant. It moves in a straight 
line, as the tower does in our chess, unless it be pre* 
vented from moving on. If this is the case, as some- 
times happens* one of the dice removes the obstacle, 
and enables it to move on. Its smallest move is one 
square, (lie greatest fifteen squares, because the dice 
sometimes show two 4, or two 6 f or a 4 and a 6, In 
consequence of one of these numbers, the elephant 
moves along the whole side of the margin on the chess- 
board : in consequence of the other number, it moves 


CHAPTER XV f. 


along the other side on the other margin of t lie board, 
in case there is no impediment in its way. In con- 
sequence of these two n timbers, the elephant, m the 
course of Ids moves, occupies the two ends of the 
diagonal. 

The pieces have certain values, according to which 
the player gets Ins share of the stake, for the pieces are 
taken and pass into the hands of the player- The value 
of the king Is 5, that of the elephant 4, of the horse 3, of 
the tower 2. and of ihe pawn t. He who takes a king 
gets 5. For two kings he gets io } for three kings 15, 
if the winner is no longer in possession of his own king, 
But if he has still his own king, and takes all three 
kings, he gets 54. a number which represents a pro- 
gression based on general consent, not on an algebraic 
principle. 

If the Hindus claim to differ from us, and to be 
something better than we, as we on our side, of course, 
do vice verstit uje might settle the question by an ex- 
periment to be made with their boys. I never knew a 
Hindu boy who had only recently come into Muham- 
madan territory who was not thoroughly versed in the 
manners and customs of the people, hut at the same 
time he would place the shoes before his master in a 
wrong order, the right one to the left, foot, and -vice versa / 
he would, in folding, turn his master’s garments inside 
out, and spread the carpets so that the under part is 
uppermost, and more of the kind. All of which is a 
consequence of the innate perversity of the Hindu 
nature. 

However, I must not reproach the Hindus only with 
their heathen practices, for the heathen Arabs too com- 
united crimes and obscenities. They cohabited with 
menstruating and pregnant, women ; several men agreed 
to cohabit with the same woman in the same period of 
menstruation : they adopted the children of others, of 
their guests, of the lover of their daughter, not to irn-n- 


Ttu; iuiiatt* 
per ^erftity 
■ if ilnelJfinctii 
chuxueU'r.. 


Custom ft ftf 
tbo ]ikiUi*u 
Arab k 


iS6 A LB BRUNTS INDIA. 

lion that in some kinds of their worship they whistled 
on their fingers and clapped with their hands, and that 
they ate unclean and dead animals.. Islam has abolished 
all those things among the Arabs, as it has also abolished 
them hi those parts of India, the people of which have 
become Muhammadans, Thanks be unto God ! 


( ) 


CHAPTER XVI f, 

ON HINDU SCIENCES WHICH 1’KKY ON THE 
ICNOBANCE OF PEOPLE, 

We understand by witchcraft, making by some kind of 
delusion a thing appear to the senses as something dif- 
ferent from what it is in reality. Taken in this sense, 
it is far spread among people. Understood, however, 
as common people understand it, as the producing of 
something which is impossible, it is a thing which 
does not lie within the limits of reality. For as that 
which is impossible cannot be produced , the whole affair 
is nothing but a gross deception. Therefore witch- 
craft in this sense has nothing whatever to do with 
science. 

One of the species of witchcraft is alchemy, though 
it is generally not called by this name. But if a man 
takes a bit of cotton and makes it appear as a bit of 
gold, what would yon call this but a piece of witch- 
craft.? It is quite the same as if he were to take a bit 
of silver and make it appear as gold, only with this 
difference, that the latter is a generally-known process, 
i. t\ tl l e gil d i n g of silver, the f or m e r is n ot. 

The Hindus do not pay particular attention to al- 
chemy, but no nation is entirely free from it, and one 
nation has more bias for it than another, which must 
not bn construed as proving intelligence or ignorance; 
for we find that many intelligent people are entirely 
given to alchemy, whilst ignorant people ridicule the 
art and its adepts. Those intelligent people, though 


On filch am y 
amongf t ] i .j 
Hindus in 
E’eneraJ. 


Page 9^ 


ALBERUNVS INDIA 


Tli* science 
■ :r jr.isiVyuiirt* 


tm 

boisterously exulting over their make-believe science, 
are not to be blamed for occupying themselves with 
alchemy, for their motive * s simply excessive eagerness 
f o i 1 acc] in ring f or t une and f o r a v o i d i n g n i i s-f o rt u n e , On ce 
a sage was asked why scholars always flock to the doors 
of the rich, whilst the rich are not. inclined to call at 
the doors of scholars. t( The scholars,” he answered, 
tf are well aware of the use of money, but the rich 
are ignorant of the nobility of science.’ 9 On the other 
hand, ignorant people are not to be praised, although 
they behave quite quietly, simply because they abstain 
from alchemy, for their motives are objectionable ones, 
rathe l: practical results of innate ignorance and stupidity 
than anything else. 

The adepts in this art try to keep it concealed, and 
shrink back from intercourse with those who do not 
belong to them. Therefore T have not been able to 
learn from the Hindus which methods they follow in 
this science, and what element they principally use. 
whether a mineral or an animal or a vegetable one- I 
only heard them speaking of the process of sublimation t 
of calftinffMon, of analt/sis T and of the wtumiff of talc, 
which they call in their language tdlaka, and so I guess 
that they incline towards the min oral ogical method of 
alchemy. 

They have a science similar to alchemy which is 
quite peculiar to them. They call it Ratiiymut^ a word 
composed with msa, Le. gold. It means an art which 
is restricted to certain operations, drug’s, and compound 
medicines, most of which are taken from plants. Its 
principles restore the health of those who were ill 
beyond hope, and give back youth to fading old age, so 
that people become again what they were in the age 
near puberty; white hair becomes black again, the 
keenness of the senses is restored as w T ell as the capa- 
city for juvenile agiiity, and even for cohabitation, and 
the life of people in this w r orld is even extended to a 


CHAPTER X VII. 


189 


long period. And why not ? Have we not already 
mentioned on the authority of Patahjali (v. p. 88) that 
one of the methods leading io liberation is Kam/jana ? 

What man would hear this, being inclined to take it 
for truth, and not dart off into foolish joy and not 
honour the master of such a wonderful art by popping 
the choicest bit of his meal into his mouth ? 

A famous representative, of this art was Xagfirjuna, a 
n at i ve of the fort D uiha k , nea r So in anatl ) . H e e xcel 3 ed I - L Lt ! '.n 
in it, and composed a book which contains the sub- At ' l> ' ul,L 
stance of the whole literature on this subject, and is 
ve vy ra re. He liv ed 1 i ea rl y a him die d y e ars be f o re o u r 
time, 

1 1 1 th e t i m e of th e King XI k ra in ad it y a, of w h ose e ra ^ 
we shall speak hereafter, there lived in the city of 
lljain a man of the name of VvML who had turned Thuuiuhe- 
his whole attention to this science, and had ruined on in Ui.- sir-v 
account of it. both his life and property, but all his 
zeal did not even avail him so much as to help him to 
things which, under ordinary circti in stances, are easily 
obtained. Becoming restricted in his means, he con- 
ceived a disgust to that which had been the object of 
all his exertions, and sat. down on the bank of a river 
sighing, sorrowful, and despairing. He held in his 
hand his pkarmoicop^ia, from which be used to take the 
prescriptions for his medicines, but now lie began to 
throw one leaf of it after the other into the water. A 
harlot happened to sit on the bank of the same river 
farther down, who, on seeing the leaves pass by, 
gathered them, and fished up some relating to liasd- 
yctrttL Yyadi did not notice- her till all the leaves of 
his book had gone. Then the woman came to him. 
asking why he had done so with his book, whereupon 
lie answered, “Because 1. have derived no advantage 
from it. I have not obtained what 1 ought to have 
obtained ; for its sake I have become bankrupt after 
having had great treasures, and now I am miserable 


I -QO 


ALBERUNTS INDIA. 


after having so long been in the hope of obtaining hap- 
piness/ 1 The harlot, spoke : " Do not give up a pursuit 
in which yon have spent your life ; do not despair of the 
possibility of a thing which all sages before you have 
shown to be true. Perhaps the obstacle which prevents 
you from realising your plans is only of an accidental 
nature, which may perhaps be removed by an accident. 
I have much solid cash. It is all yours that you may 
spend it on the realisation of your plans.” Thereupon 
Vyadi resumed his work, 

However, books of this kind are written in an 
enigmatic style. So he happened to misunderstand a 
word in the prescription of a medicine, which meant 
oil and Imman bloody both being required for it. It 
was written raktdmala, and he thought it meant red 
myrohalanon. When he used the medicine it had 
no effect whatsoever. Now he began to concoct the 
various drugs, but the flame touched his head and 
dried up his brain* Therefore he oiled himself with 
oil, pouring it in great quantity over his skull. One 
day he rose to step away from the € replace for some 
business or other, but as there happened to be a peg 
projecting from the roof right above Ids bead* he 
knocked his head against it, and the blood began to 
flow. On account of the pain which he felt, he looked 
downward, and in consequence some drops of blood 
mixed with oil dropped from the upper part of his skull 
into the caldron without his noticing it. When, then, 
the concocting process was finished and he and his wife 
besmeared themselves with the concoction in order to 
try it, they both flew up into the ai i\ Yikra-iniklitya on 
hearing of this affair left his castle, and proceeded to 
the market-place in order to see them with his own 
eyes, Then the man shouted to him, Open thy mouth 
for my saliva.” The king, however, being disgusted, did 
not clo it, and so the saliva fell down near the door, 
and immediately the threshold was filled with gold. 


CHAPTER XV IL 191 

Vyadi and the wo mart flew to any place they liked, 
lie has composed famous books on this science. People 
say that both man and wife are still alive. 

A similar tale is the following:— In the city of 
Dhftra, the capital of IVbilava, which is in our days ruled 
by Bhopideva* there lies in the door of the Government- 
house an oblong piece of pure silver, in which the out- 
lines of the limbs of a man are visible. Ids origin is 
accounted for by the following story : — Once in olden 
times a man went to a king of theirs, bringing him a 
Hmdyana^ the use of which would make him immortal, 
victorious, invincible, and capable of doing everything 
he desired. He asked the king to come alone to the 
place of their meeting, and the king gave orders to keep 
in readiness all the man required. 

The man began to boil the oil for several days, until 
at last it acquired consistency. Then he spoke to the 
king ; " Spring into it and l shall finish the process/' 
But the king, terrified at what he saw, had not the 
courage to dive into it. The man, on perceiving his 
cowardice, spoke to him : "If you have- not sufficient 
courage, and will not do it for yourself, will you allow 
n 1 e my sc If to doit?” W h ere u pon t h e king ai 1 s w e red , 
“ Do as you like.” Now he produced several packets of 
drugs, and instructed him that when such and such 
symptoms should appear, he should throw upon him 
this or that packet. Then the man stepped forward to 
the caldron and threw himself into it, and at once he 
was dissolved and reduced into pulp. Now (he king 
proceeded according to his instruction, but when lie had 
nearly finished the process, and there remained only one 
packet that was not vet thrown into the mass, lie began 
to be anxious, and to think what might happen to his, 
realm, in ra^e the man should return to life as an 
it n m 0 rt * 1 1 , r id or in u ,% in r inc [Lie ] lerson , as has a boy e bee 1 1 
mentioned. And so he thought it preferable not to 
throw the last packet into the mass. The consequence 


Si m y m t 

Lbs 

Mami- m the 
rUmr nf tine 

mumt-honse 
in IjM'ti. 


94- 


Btnj'y l,3i* 

ll-Ll'tku ;itnl 
1 he k i ug 
V'alLuhliii. 


192 ALBERUNI S INDIA + 

was that the caldron became cold, and the dissolved 
man became consolidated in t he shape of the said piece 
of silver. 

The Hindus tell a tale about Vall&bha, the king of 
tli© city of Vail abb k whose era we have mentioned in 
the proper chapter. 

A man of the rank of a Siddht- asked a herdsman 
with reference to a plant called Tkohav^ of the species of 
i\\& Ladarirti from which milk [lows when they arc- torn 
off* whether he had ever seen Lort(<ria from which 
blood flows instead of milk. When the herdsman 
declared he had, he gave .him some drink-money that 
he should show it to him, which he did. When 1 he 
man now saw the plant, he set fire to it, and threw the 
dog o f U le h o r d s m an i n t o th e fi ame . E n raged tl i e j *e by p 
the herdsman caught the man. and did with him the 
same as lie had done to his dog. Then lie waited till 
the fire was extinguished, and found both the man and 
the dog, but turned into gold. He took the dog with 
him, but Left, the man on the spot. 

Now some peasant happened to find it. lie cut off 
a finger, and went to a fruit-seller who was called 
Rankti, Le. the poor , because he w T as an utter pauper, 
and evidently near bankruptcy. After the peasant had 
bought from him what he wanted, he returned to the 
golden man, and then he found that in the place w here 
the cut off finger had been, a new finger had grown. 
He cut it off a second time, and bought again from the 
same fruit-seller all that he wanted. But when "the 
fruit-seller asked him whence he had the finger, he was 
stupid enough to tell him. So E-anka went out to the 
body of the Siddha, and brought it on a carriage to his 
house. He stayed in his old abode, but managed by 
degrees to buy the whole town. The king Vallabha 
desired to own the same town, and asked him to cede 
it to him for money, but Rafika declined. Being how- 
ever afraid of the king's resentment, he lied to the lord 


CHAPTER XVII. 


■93 

of Almansiira, made him presents of money, and asked 
Mm to help hint by a naval force. The lo-rcl of Alman- 
sftra complied with his desire, and assisted him. So he 
made a night-attack upon the king Vallabha, and killed 
him and his people, and destroyed his town. People 
say that, still in our time there are such traces left 
in that country as are found in places which were de- 
stroyed by an unexpected night-attack r 

The greediness of the ignorant Hindu princes for 
gold-making does not know any limit. If any one of 
them wanted to carry out a scheme of gold-malting, 
and people advised him to kill a number of fine little 
children, the monster would not refrain from such a 
crime; he would throw them into the fire. If this 
precious science of Rasayana were banished to the 
utmost limits of the world, whore it is unattainable to 
anybody, ib would be the best. 

According to the E rani an tradition, IsfandiyM is said 
to have spoken when dying : “ Kalis had been given the 
power and the miraculous things mentioned in the Book 
of the haw. Finally he went to the mountain Kaf as a 
decrepit man, bent down by old age, but he returned 
thence as a lively youth of well-proportioned figure and 
full of force, having made the clouds his carriage, as God 
allowed himT 

As regards charms and Incantations, the Hindus have 
a firm belief in them, and they, as a rule, are much in- 
clined towards them. The book which treats of those 
things is considered as a work of Garuda, a bird on 
which Naruyana rode. Sonic people describe this bird 
in such a way as to indicate a Sii'r id-bird and its doings. 
It is an enemy of fish ? catching them. As a rule, 
an i] 11 aH have by nature an aversion to their opponents, 
and try to beware of them ; here, however, there is an 
exception to this rule. Fur when this bird flutters 
above the water and swims on it, the fish rise from the 

VOL. 1+ E 


An Rraninu 

l rudWiftti. 

Ph-uTl- g=.. 


(In thf! Irfi4 
□:llud;L 


Tins sffE.inf of 

lj]j:Ll' L’LLH OH 

lb a bit a of 
tfeq icula, 


t 94 A LB UR V Ml ’$ 1 N D1A . 

d ee j ) l o the s li r face , a n d in ak e i t t Tts y t o h ii n t o cate ] i 
them, as if he had bound them by his spell. Others 
describe It. with such characteristics as might indi- 
cate a stork. The Vfh/H- Purdaa attributes to it a 
pale colour. On the whale* (him da comes nearer to a 
stork than to a Si f rid, as the stork is by nature, like 
Oar 11 da, a destroyer of snakes. 

Most of their charms are intended for those who have 
been bitten by serpents. Their excessive con fide nee in 
them is shown by this, which I heard am an say , Hi at he 
had seen a dead man who bail died from the bite of a 
serpent, but after the charm had been applied lie bad 
been restored to life, and remained alive, moving about 
like all others. 

Another man I heard ns he told the following stony ; 
; -iJe bad seen a man who had died from the bite of a 
serpent. A charm was applied, and in consequence be 
rose, spoke, made bis will, showed where he had de- 
posited his treasures, and gave all necessary information 
about them. Bui when lie inhaled the smell of a dish, 
he fell down dead, life being completely extinetd 1 

!t is a Hindu custom that when a man has been 
bitten by a venomous serpent, and they have no charmer 
at hand, they bind the bitten man on a bundle of reeds, 
and place on him a leaf on which is written a blessing 
to i" that person who will accidentally light upon him, 
and save- him by a charm from destruction. 

I, for my part, do not know what T am to say about 
these things, since I do not believe in them. Once a 
man who bad very little belief in reality, and much less 
in the tricks of jugglers, told me that he bad been 
poisoned, and that people had sent him some Hindus 
possessing the knowledge of charms. They sang their 
charms before him, and this had a quieting effect upon 
him, and soon he felt that be became better and better, 
whilst they wore drawing lines in the air with then- 
bands and with twigs. 


CHAPTER XV I L 


195 


[ myself have witnessed that in hunting gazelles they 
caught them with the hand. One Hindu even went so 
far as to assert that he, without catching the gazelle, 
would drive it before him ami lead it. straight into the 
1 < i tel 1 e n . r H 1 i s, h o we ver, rests, as I bell eve I h av e fo u n d 
out, simply on the device of slowly and constantly 
accustoming the animals to one and the same melody. 
Onr people, too, practise the same when hunting the 
ibex, which is more wild even than the gazelle. When 
they see the animals resting, they begin to walk round 
them in a circle, singing one and the same melody so 
long until the animals are accustomed to it. Then 
they make the circle more and more narrow, till at last 
they come near enough to shoot at the animals which 
lie there in perfect rest. 

The shooters of Kata-birds have a custom of beating 
copper- vessels during the night with one and the same 
kind of beat, and they manage to catch them with the 
hand. If, however, the beat is changed, the birds fly 
off in all directions. 

All these things are peculiar customs which have 
nothing whatsoever to do with charms. Sometimes the 
Hindus are considered as sorcerers because of their 
pi a v lug with balls on raised beams or on tight ropes, 
but tricks of this kind are common to all nations. 


Him ting 
irrauttee^. 


F»go 


( ryf> ) 


Tit* Inlmbit- 
nUlb wurld 
fcud tlj* 
oce-au . 


CHAPTER XVXIL 

VARIOUS NOTES ON THEIR COUNTRY, T FREER RIVERS, ANTI 
THEIR OCEAN, ITINERARIES OF TIEK DISTANCES RE* 
TWEEN THEIR SEVERAL KINGDOMS, ANIj between 
THE BOUNDARIES OF THEIR COUNTRY, 

The reader is to imagine the inhabitable world, y 
altcMjfL£vy 9 as lying in the northern halt of the earth, 
and more accurately in one-half of this half — i.c. in 
one of the quarters of the earth. It is surrounded by 
a sea, which both in west and east is called the compre- 
hending one ; the Greeks call its western part, near their 
country tikeowos. This sea separates the inhabitable 
world from whatever continents or inhabitable islands 
there may be beyond it, both towards west and east ; for 
it. is not navigable on account of the darkness of the 
air and the thickness of the water, because there is 
no more any road to be traced, and because the risk 
is enormous, whilst the profit is nothing* Therefore 
people of olden times have fixed marks both on the sea 
and its shores which are intended to deter from enter- 
ing it. 

The inhabitable world does not. roach the north on 
account of the cold, except in certain places where it 
penetrates i nto the north in the shape, as it were, of 
tongues and bays. In the south it reaches as far as 
the coast of the ocean, which in west and east, is con- 
nected with the comprehending ocean. This southern 
ocean is navigable. It does not form the utmost 
southern limit of the inhabitable world. On the con- 


CHAPTER XVIII. 


197 


tra xj, the latter stretches still more southward in the 
shape of large and small islands which fill the ocean. 
In this southern region land and water dispute with 
each other their position, so that in one place the con- 
tinent protrudes into the sea, whilst in another the sea 
penetrates deeply into the continent. 

The continent protrudes far into the sea in the west- 
ern. half of the earth, and extends its shores far into 
the sou tic On the plains of this continent live the 
western negroes, whence the slaves are brought; and 
there are the Mountains of the .Moon, and on them are 
the sources of the Nile. On its coast, and the islands 
before the coast, live the various tribes of the Zanj, 
There are several bays or gulfs which penetrate into 
the continent on this western half of the earth — the 
bay of Berber a, that, of Klysma (the Red Sea), and that 
of Persia (the Persian Gulf); and between these gulfs 
the western continent protrudes more or less into the 
ocean. 

in the eastern half of the earth the sea penetrates as 
deeply into the northern continent as the continent in 
the western half protrudes into the southern sea, and 
in many places it has formed bays and estuaries which 
run far into the continent — bays being parts of the sea-, 
estuaries being the outlets of rivers towards the sea. 
This sea. is mostly called from some island in it or 
from the coast which borders it. Here, however, we 
are concerned only with that part of the sea which 
is bordered by the continent of India, and therefore is 
called the Indian Ocean. 

As to the orographic con figuration of the inhabitable 
world, imagine a range of towering mountains like the 
vertebrae of a pine stretching through the middle lati- 
tude o£ the earth, and in Longitude from east to west, 
passing through China, Tibet, the country of the Turks, 
K a bnl, B Eid 1 1 ak hshae, To k h an s t an , Rami y u n, El gl i b r , 
Khurfisiin, Media, Adharbaij&Uj Armenia, the Roman 


Thu uF’Hflrn* 
jihlfl gyfttecn 

ill A f-.j.i in 1 1 

3U l n 1 1 k!_ 


ALBERUNTS INDIA . 


Fa£<i gj. 


India. ei lu- 
cent sLluviU 
formation. 


First orioai- 
tiuttcm w-- 

Mu- 

dhyftde&i, 

Kanoj, 

M j.] j i"i tr-L, and 

Tdr.tjfchar. 


\ 98 

Empire, the country of the Franks, and of the Jalulilta 
(Gallicians), Long as this range is, it bas also a con- 
siderable breadth, and, besides, many windings which 
enclose inhabited plains watered by streams which 
descend from the mountains both towards north and 
south. One of these plains is India, limited in the 
south by the above-mentioned Indian. Ocean, and on 
all three other sides by the lofty mountains, the waters 
of which flow down to it. But if you have seen the 
soil of India with your own eyes and meditate on its 
nature — if you consider the rounded stones found lit 
the earth however deeply you dig, stones that are huge 
near the mountains and where the rivers have a violent 
current; stones that are of smaller size at greater dis- 
tance from the mountain?, and where the streams How 
more slowly ; stones that appear pulverised in the shape 
of sand where the streams begin to stagnate near their 
mouths and near the sea — if you consider all this, yon 
could scarcely help thinking that India has once been 
a sea which by degrees has been filled up by the allu- 
vium of the streams. 

The middle of India is the country round Knnnj 
(Kanauj), which they call Madkyadem, Le. the middle 
of the realms. It is the middle or centre- from a geo- 
graphical point of view, in so far as it lies half way be- 
tween the sea and the mountains, in the midst between 
the hot and the cold provinces, and also between the 
eastern and western frontiers of India. But it is a 
political centre too, because in former times It was the 
residence of their most famous heroes and kings. 

The country of Sindh lies to the west of Kuuuj. I11 
marching from our country to Sindh we start from the 
country of Nitnrdz, the country of Sijiatan, whilst 
marc! ling to Hind or India proper we start from the 
side of Kabul This, however, is not the only possible 
road. You may march into India from all gules, sup- 
posing that you can remove the obstacles in the way* 


CHAPTER XVII L 


W 

In the mountains which form the frontier of India 
towards the west there are tribes of the Hindus, or of 
people near akin to them — -rebellions savage races — 
which extend as far as the farthermost frontiers of 
the Hindu race. 

Kanoj lies to the west of the Ganges, a very large 
town, hut most of it is now in ruins and desolate since 
the capital lias been transferred thence to the city of 
Bari, east of the Ganges* Between the two towns there 
is a distance- of three to four days’ marches. 

As Kanoj (Kanydkulja) has become famous by the 
children of Pandm the city of M&hfira (Maihvrd) has 
become famous by Yasudeva, It lies east of the river 
J an n ( Yi 1 tu 1 1 n & ) . Tl 1 e dist a .1 1 ee bet w ee n M at 1 u r a and 
Kanoj is 2 far sal: Ik 

Tfuicshar (Sththitfs-vara) lies between the two rivers to 
the north both of Kanoj and Mfthura, at a distance of 
nearly So farsakh from Kanoj . and nearly 50 farmlch 
from Mu bur a. 

The fiver Ganges riaes in the mountains; which have 
already been mentioned. Its source is called Gafigd- 
dv&ra>* Most of the other rivers of the country also vise 
in the same mountains, as we have already mentioned 
in the proper place. 

As for the distances between the various parts of Hindu 
India, those who have not themselves actually, seen 
them must rely upon tradition ; but unfortunately it is 
of such a nature that already Ptolemy incessantly com- 
plains of its transmitters and their bias towards story- 
telling. Fortunately I have found out a certain rule 
by which to control their lies. The Hindus frequently 
estimate the burden an ox could bear at 2GOO and 3000 
manti (which is infinitely more than an ox could carry 
id on&i). In consequence they are compelled to let the 
caravan make the same march to and fro during many 
days — in fact-, so long until the ox lias carried the 
whole load assigned to it from one end of the route to 


200 


ALBERUNFS INDIA* 


the other, and then they reckon as the distance between 
the two places a march of ouch a number of days as the 
caravan has altogether spent in marching to and fro. 
It is only with the greatest exertion and caution that; 
we can to some extent correct, the statements of the 
Hindus, However, we could not make up our mind to 
suppress that which we know on account of that which 
we do not know. We ask the reader's pardon where 
there is anything wrong, and now we continue. 
j£-uTu A man marching from Kanqj to the south between 

theti^or the two rivers Jaun and Ganges passes the following 
0\ i fiii we 1 1 - kno w n places: — kajja m au i 1 2 fiiTmkh from Kan oj , 
ii^tertL each farsakh being equal to four miles or one burdh ; 
FiLyi'ij,:. Afthdptirt, $ farsakh- ; Ktirahrt^ Zfar&ahh ; UarhamsJuf 
$ farsakh / the Tree of Pray dm, 12 farsakh, the place 
where the water of the Jaun joins the Ganges, where 
the Hindus torment themselves with various kinds of 
tortures, which are described in the books about religions 
sects. The distance from Prayaga to the place where 
the Ganges flows into the sea is 12 farsakh (sic)* 

Other tracts of country extend from the Tree of 
Pray aga sou t.h w a rd. toward 1 th e cn a at. A rl&i-tA rt h «, 12 
farmkh from Prayfiga; the realm Uwaryahdr, 40 far- 
sakh. ; fjrdubUh.m on the coast, 50 farsakh* 

Thence along the coast towards the east there are 
countries which are now under the sway of Jaur ; first 
Dam 1 1 r, 40 farsakh from On i a hhh an ; JO t uji , 3 o fix r- 
mhh; Malmja, 40 farsakh ; K 4 ?ih ^ofarsa.kh, which is 
the last of Jam's possessions in this direction. 

Fn>rnBM Marching from Bari along the Ganges on its eastern 
mouUj of side, you pass the following stations — Ajodalui ( A v a - 
Nii dhy&, Oudh), 25 farsakh from BM; the famous Band- 

ram,, 20 farsakh. 

Thence changing the direction, and marching east- 
ward instead of southward, you come to Sharwdr^ 3 5 
farmkh- from Banftraai ; P&talipuira, 20 farmkh : 
Mungh'i, TJ farsakh; Janpa? 30 farsakh ; Ihlfprnvpiir, 


CHAPTER XVIII. 


20 1 


50 j'arsakh; (urngtlsdijara, 30 far&akh, where the 
Gail gras flows into the sea. 

Marching from Kaiioj towards the east, you come to 
Bari, to farsaTh ; Jjutjwa, 45 JarsakU ; the empire 
of .ShilahaT I o farsakh ; the town Bihat j T2 farmk/h 
Farther on the country to the right is called TilwaL 
the inhabitants Txril, people of very black colour and 
flat-nosed like the Turks, Thence you come to the 
mountains of Kirnru, which stretch away as far as the 


Kunoj 
L iiru u t'h 
NftMl tii 
!.tl lij nir . 


Opposite Tilwat the country to the left is the realm 
of Naipilh A man who had tray oiled in those countries 
gave me the following report: — “When In Tauwat, he 
left the easterly direction and turned to the left. lira 
marched to Naipfti, a distance of 20 farsakh, most of 
which was ascending conn try. From Xaipnl he came 
to Bhfiteshar in thirty days, a distance of nearly So 
farsalch, in which there is more ascending than descend- 
ing country. And there is a water which is several 
times crossed on bridges consisting of planks tied with 
cords to two canes, which stretch from rock to rock, and 
are fastened to milestones constructed on either side. 
People carry the burdens on their shoulders oyer such 
a bridge., whilst below, at a depth of i OQ yards, the water 
loams as white as snow, threatening to shatter the rocks. 
On the other side of the bridges, the burdens are trans- 
ported on the back of goats, ily reporter told me that 
he had there seen gazelles with four eyes : that this was 
not. an accidental m information of nature, but I hat the 
whole species was of this nature* 

“ Bhuteshar is the first frontier of Tibet. There the 
language changes as well as the costumes and the 
anthropological character of the people. Thence the 
distance to the top of the highest pea It is 20 fwrsakk. 
From the height of’ this mountain, India appears as 
a black expanse below thra mist, the mountains lying 
below this peak like small hills, and Tibet and China 


202 


ALB BRUNTS INDIA. 


From Kauoj 
to 1.5auaTfta. 


Page 99 * 


From Ksnoj 

CO EftZ&lUlL, 


FlKim Ma- 
li ura c., 
Dh&r. 


Frnm B.l- 
kj'li i a tn 
Han dag Hr, 


appear as red. The descent towards Tibet and Uhinais 
less than on efarsaleh” 

Marching from Kauoj to wards the south-east, on the 
western side of the Ganges., yon come to the realm of 
JajdMUiy 30 furmlrh from Kauoj. The capital of the 
country is KafUrt iha . Between this town and Kauoj 
there are two of the most famous fortresses of India. 
G will iy ar ( G wal ior) an d K a 3 ai 1 j ar . I)a hdla [ — r ft< rsakh | , 
a country the capital of which is Tiauri, and the rider 
of which is now Gauge j a. 

The realm oF Kamiukam, 20 ftrsahh. Apsiir, Buna- 
vds t on the sea- coast. 

Marching from Kauoj towards the south-west, you 
come to A si, rS fwrmfch from Kauoj ; Nahcmyd, 1 7 far- 
mhh ; JunuTni, [ 8 far&ahh ; RdjauH } 1 5 far&akk; Baz&na* 
the capital of Gmsarat, 20 farsakh. This town is calh-d 
Ntirdyan by our people. After it had fallen into 
decay the inhabitants migrated to-anofcher place called 
Jadfiia (?}, 

The distance between Miihfira and Kauoj is the same 
as that between -■ kc^Toj and Bazfma, viz, 28 fursahh. 
IF a man travels from Uahiira to Tljaiu, he passes 
through villages which are only five fetrsahk and less dis- 
tant from each other. At the end of a march of 35 far- 
sakk. he co m e s to a 1 arge v ill age cal le d Dux I ah f ; thence 
to Rdmobir, t y far sakk from D lid aid ; Eh&iU&n, 5 far- 
mhh, a place most Famous among the Hindus- The 
name of the town is identical with that of the idol wor- 
shipped there, Thence to Arum, g farmkh- The idol 
worshipped there is called Muh&kdla* Bhdf\ y fursnkh. 

Marching from Bazana southward,, you come to Mai- 
wu/T) 25 far sakk From IWAna, This is a kingdom the 
capital of which is JoMarawr. From this town to 
Mala v a and its capital, Bhih\ the distance is 2 ofarsakh. 
The city of Cjjain lies y firmkk to the east, of JJhdr. 

From Ujain to BhAilasau, which likewise belongs to 
Malavfi, the distance is 10 farmkh. 


CHAPTER XVIII. 


-03 


Marching from Dhar southward, you corns to BMlmi- 
hard, 2ofarsakk from Dhar ; II and, 20 farmlh- ; Nam d- 
ru>\ on the bn 1 ike of the NarmadA. (Nerburlda), 10 
farsakh ; Altsp&r. 20 far&akk ; Mandagir t on tlie banka 
of the liver Godavar, do- farsakh* 

Again marching from IMr southward, yon come to 
the valley of Nd-miyytt, 7 farmkh from DMr ; Ma.hr aUt^ 
Dish f 1 8 far Mich; the province of KunM-n, and its 
capital, Tina, on the sea-coast 25 fav&ahh. 

People relate that in the plains of Kimkan. called 
Ddnak? there lives an animal called shura-va (Skr. 
sarabha)* It has four feet, but also on the back it has 
something like four feet directed upwards. It has a 
small proboscis, but two big horns with which it attacks 
the elephant and cleaves it in two. It lias the shape 
of a buffalo, but is larger than a ganda (rhinoceros). 
According to popular tales, it sometimes ram a some 
animal with its horns, raises it or part of it towards its 
back, so that it comas to lie between its upper feet. 
There it becomes a putrid mass of worms, which work 
their way into the back of the an ini ah In consequence 
it continually rubs itself against the trees, and finally 
it perishes. Of the same animal people relate that 
sometimes, when hearing the thunder, it takes it to be 
the voice of some animal. Immediately it proceeds to 
attack this imaginary foe ; in pursuing him it climbs 
up to the top of the mountain-peaks, and tlicnce leaps 
towards him* Of course, it plunges into the depth and 
is dashed to pieces. 

The gmula exists in large numbers 111 India, more 
particularly about the Ganges. It is of the build of a 
buffalo, lias a black scaly skin,, and dewlaps hanging 
down under the chin. It. lias three yellow hoofs on 
each foot, the biggest one forward, the others on both 
Rides. The tail is not long; the eyes lie low, farther 
down the cheek than is the case with all other animals. 
On the top of the nose there is a single horn which is 


Fmm Dli&r 
ta T;m;j . 


Motas about 
v-iiricnis arii- 
jlulIs of 

India. 


Fug* 1 OTn 


204 a LEE RUN PS INDIA , 

bent upwards* The Brahmin a have the privilege of 
eating the ilesh of the ganda, I have myself witnessed 
how an elephant coming across a young gaada was 
attacked by it. The ga nda wounded with its horn a 
forefoot of the elephant, and threw it down on its face. 

J thought that the ganda was the rhinoceros (or 
karkadann), but a man who had visited iSuiuhu in the 
country of the Negroes, told me that the hark, which 
the Negroes call imp$jt s the hom of which furnishes the 
material for the handles of our knives, comes nearer 
this description than the rhinoceros, it has various 
colours. On the skull it has a cornual hom, broad at- 
tire root, but not very high. The shaft of the horn (lit. 
I Is arrow) is black inside, and white everywhere else. 
On the front it has a second and longer horn of the 
same description, which becomes erect as soon as the 
animal wants to ram with it. It sharpens this horn 
against the rocks, so that it cuts and pierces- It has 
hoofs, and a hairy tail like the tail of an ass. 

There are crocodiles in the rivers of India as in the 
Nile, a fact which led simple Aljaldz. in his ignorance 
of the courses of the rivers and the configuration of the 
ocean, to thick that the river of Muhrliai (the river 
Sindh) was a branch of the Nile. Besides, there are 
other marvellous animals in the rivers of India of the 
crocodile tribe, makarn, curious kinds of fishes, and an 
animal like a leather-bag, which appears to the ships 
and plays in swimming. It is called burlil (porpoise ?). 
1 suppose it to be the dolphin or a kind of dolphin. 
People say that it lias a hole on the head for taking 
breath like the dolphin. 

In the livers of Southern India there is an animal 
cal l ed by vari on s s i am e s. grdha r ja hi it mi u, a u d k im l a d , 
It is thin, but very long. People say it spies and lies 
in wait for those who enter the water and. stand in it, 
whether men or animals, and at once attacks them. 
First it circles round the prey at. some distance, until 


CHAPTER XV III. 


20 $ 


its length comeg to an end, Then it draws itself 
together, and winds Itself like a knot round the feet of 
the prey, which is thus thrown off its legs and perishes, 
A man who lmd seen the animal told me that it has 
the head of a dog, and a tail to which there- are attached 
many long tentacles, which it winds round the prey, in 
ease the latter is not weaiy enough. By means of these 
feelers it drags the prey towards the tail itself, and 
when once firmly encircled by the tail the animal is 
lost. 

After this digression we return to our subject. 

Marching from Baziuta towards the south-west, you 
come to Anikilvdra, 60 farsakh from B&zana 5 & r mui~ 
ncttk, on the sea-coast, $q farsakh. 

Marching from A nidi vara southward, you come to 
LtinUsK to the two capitals of the country, JJihroj and 
2 lika'iij&v } 42 farsakh from Archil vara. Both are on the 
sea-coast to the east of Tana. 

Marching from Bazana towards the west, you coma 
to AM Ida, $Qfa-Tml-h from Bazilna ; Bhdti, 1 5 fursulih. 

Marching from Bhatj towards the south-west, you 
come to Ard*\ l 5 farm Pd from JJbfLti ? a township be- 
tween two arms of the Sindh Elver \ Bm&hamv& Alman- 
plra, 20 farsakh; L6iiu.rdid.il t the month of the Sindh 
Biver, 30 farsakh* 

Marching from Kanoj towards the north-north- west, 
you come to Hhir-shdraJm-, 50 farsakh. from Kanoj ; 
rinjav.r, 1 3 farsakh, situated on the mountains, whilst 
opposite it in the plain there lies the city of Tfmcshar; 
Dalimula, the capital of Jalandhar, at the foot of the 
m cm ntain s, 1 8 / 'arnahh : Bn lid <rm \ t o ft arst t kh ; t h e n ce 
marching westward, you come to Ladda, 13 farsakh ; 
the fortress Bajat/Pri. 3 farsakh ; (hence marching north- 
ward,. you come to Kashmir ^ 25 farsakh. 

Marching from Kanoj towards the west, you come 
to Diy&mnn, \o farmkh from Kanoj ; AVI, \o farsakh; 
AnAr t 10 farmkh; Mir at, to farmkh ; iVlarpaf j.q 


i-’nnn lin- 
kmqu l u 


i’l-njn Auhil- 
vAru to Lu- 
hiktiliiT. 




Fr Kniio.1 

Lu Kurrimijr. 


From. Kanoj 
to IlhasuiiL. 
Page i n e , 


2o6 


ALBERUNFS INDIA. 


forsakk. Between the latter two places flows the river 
Jmm; Kawiial, 10 farsakh; tSmnfim, iofar&a!+L 

Thence maid ling towards the north-west, you come 
l*o A dill 1 1 ha %tr f Q fa rmh 'h : J < ftja n u \ 6 farsakh ; M<( n d a- 
hlMr t the capital of LauMiwur, east of the river Irftwa, 
8 favmhh ; the river Canrfrdha, 1 2 farmlch ; the river 
Jmlam, west, of the river Biyatta, %jhrsaMt. : Wat hind, 
the capital of Kiindhftr, west of the river Sindh, 20 
fi * rsa l :-h ; Piirsh d -w* * r, \ 4 fa rmkh ; 1) a rip m\ r 5 fa * / -A ; 
Kabuli 1 2 farmhh ; Gkazna, 17 farsakh. 

Kashmir lies on a plateau surrounded by high inac- 
cessible mountains. The south and east of the country 
belong to the Hindus, the west to various kings, the 
Bolar-Shah and the Shugnln,-Sh&h t and the more remote 
parts up to the Iron tiers of BadhakliBhftri, to the Wakhan- 
Siiah. The north and part of the east of the country 
b e 1 01 1 g to th e T n rk s of K 1 1 oten an d Tibet . T h e d 1 stan ce 
from the peak of Bhoteshar to Kashmir through Tibet 
amounts to nearly 3 too fars&Mi. 

The inhabitants of Kashmir are pedestrians, they 
have no riding animals nor elephants. The noble 
among them ride in palankins called katt, carried on 
the shoulders of mem They are particularly anxious 
about the natural strength of their country, and there- 
fore take always much care to keep a strong hold upon 
th e e 1 i trances an d road * leading i 1 \ to ir. I n co use q n en ce 
it is very difficult to have any commerce with them. 
In former times they used to allow one or two foreigners 
to enter their country, particularly Jews. but. at present 
they do not allow any Hindu whom they do not know 
personally to enter, much less other people. 

The best known entrance to Kashmir is from the 
to w n 1 iabr al ifui, 1 1 al i‘ w ay b e t w ee 1 j the ri v ers Sindh and 
Jail am, Tlitmcc to the bridge over tin* river, where the 
water of the EnsnM is joined by that, of the Mabwt, 
both of which come from the mountains of Shamil an, 
and fall into the Jail am. the distance is S farsakh. 


CHAPTER XVIII. 


2aj 


Thence you reach in five days the beginning of the ravine 
whence the river JftOam comes ; at the other end of this 
ravine is. the watch -.station Dvtir, on both sides of the 
river Jail am. Thence, leaving the ravine., yon enter 
the- plain, and reach in two more days AddLshtan, the 
capital of Kashmir, passing on the road the village 
Ushkairl, which lies on both sides of the valley, in the 
same manner as Bn rain Ci; a. 

The city of Kashmir covers a space of fonr farmllt , 
being built along both banks of the river Jail am t which 
are connected with each other by bridges and ferry- 
boats. The Jail am rises in the mountains Ifaraumkol. 
where also the Ganges rises, cold, impenetrable regions 
where the snow never melts nor disappears. Behind 
them there is Makdc-m, Le. Great China. When the 
Juiiaiii has left the mountains, and has flowed two 
d ay J journey, it pass es tl iron gl i A dd is! it an , Four far- 
sakk farther on it enters a swamp of one square farmkk. 

The people have their plantations on the borders of this 
swamp, and on such parts of it as they manage to 
reclaim. Leaving this swamp, the Jail am passes the 
town Ushkartb and then enters the above-mentioned 
ravine. 

The river Sindh rises in the mountains Unang in the tihmip^t 

„ i i+i . t course of 

territory oi the lurks, which you can reach m the thosiudb 
i n 1 3 ow in g way : — Lea v m g t he rav me by which y ou north 
enter Kashmir and entering the plateau, then you have wcatiron- 
for a march of two more days on your left the mountains inUi*. 
of Bo lor and Sharnllari, Turkish tribes who are called 
BhMimmryan, Tlieir king has the title Bhatta-ShSh. 

Their towns are Gilgit, Aswirsu and ShJ.lt as, and their 
language is the Turkish, Kashmir suffers much from 
their inroads. Marching on the left side of the river, 
you always pass through cultivated ground and reach ic=. 
the capital; marching on the right side, you pass 
through villages, one close to I lie other, south of the 
capital, and thence you reach the mountain Kularjak, 


A LB HR UNI'S INDIA. 


The 1vc.:>j£- 
vi n i Laid 
Kouthem 

ffl.ll It fell* of 

ImlJ.-i. 


208 

which is like a cupola, similar to the mountain Duu- 
Lawand< The snow there never melts. It. is a] ways 
visible from the region of Tukeshar and La u h a war 
(Lahore). The distance between this peak and the 
plateau of Kashmir is two farmhh. The fortress ftftjfL 
girl lies south of it, and the fortress Laltur: west of it., 
the two strongest places I have ever seen. The town 
Bujawarl is three farsakh distant from the peak. Tins 
is the farthest place to which our merchants trade, and 
beyond which they never pass. 

Tills is the frontier of India from the north. 

I11 the western frontier mountains of India there live 
various tribes of the Afghans, and extend up to the 
neighbourhood of the Sindh Valley* 

The southern frontier of India Is formed by the 
ocean . Th e coast of India begins with T12, the capital of 
Uakrun, and extends thence in a south-eastern direction 
towards the region of Al-daibal, over a distance of 40 
farsaJch. Between the two places lies the Gulf of 
Turau. A gulf is like an angle or a winding line of 
watts r pen etrat i n g fro m the oc ea 11 in to Ll r e cont i 11 en t, 
and is dangerous for navigation, specially on account of 
ebb and flood. An estuary Is something similar to a 
gulf, but is not formed by the ocean's penetrating into 
the continent, ft. is formed by an expanse of flowing 
water, which there is changed into standing water and 
is connected with the ocean. These estuaries, too* are 
dangerous for the ships, because the water is sweet and 
does not bear heavy bodies as well as salt, water does. 

After the above-mentioned gulf follow the small 
Man ha, the great klunlia, then the BawiMj, ■?>. the 
pirates of Kacch and ftomaniith. They are thus called 
because they commit their robberies on sea in ships 
called Mra, The places on the coast arc- : — TaimUeshar, 
5 o farm K -h from Dai bal 5 L Oka ? xh ti , 12 fa r&ak h- ; Baga , 
12 farsakk ; Kawh, where the m-ukD tree grows, and 
JJdrtrt, 6 farmlch ; SSmatidth, 14 farsakh ; Kanbdyat, 


CHAPTER XV TIT 


20Q 


30 farmkh; Amvnt^ 2 days; Bihvt\j> 30 fwr&akh (?) ; 
Sawl&n, 50 fdrsakh ; Mh&nt, 6 jarsakh ; Tana, 5 
far mlih. 

Thence the coast-line cornea to the country Z&rdn, 
in which Lies the city of Jhnm\ then to Yaltahha , 
K&nji; BarvacL Next follows a great bay in which 
Si t w a t t li b lie e , i . e. the i aland Sa ran d i b { L-ey I on). 1 i on n d 
1 he bay lies the city of Panjay&var (sic). When this 
city had fallen Into ruins, the king. Jam*, built instead 
of it, on the coast towards the west, a new city which 
he called Padndr. 

The next place on the coast is U-iiimahi&ra, then Emn- 
mcr (RfLmeahar ?) opposite Sarandib ; the distance of the 
sea between them Is 12 /arsakh. The distance from 
Panjay&var to Ramsher is 40 farsakh, that between Ilam- 
sher and Setuhandfaj. 2 jarmkh. Setubandha means 
h'ifbjc of the ocean - It is the dike of Rama, the son of 
Da^aratha, which he built from the continent to the castle 
Lanka. At present it consists of isolated mountains 
between which the ocean flows. Sixteen fa-rmkk from 
Setnbandha towards the east, is Kihhind, the mountains 
of the monkeys. Every day the king of the monkeys 
comes out of the thicket together with his hosts, and 
settles down in particular seats prepared for them. The 
inhabitants of that region prepare for them cooked rice, 
and bring it to them 011 leaves. After having eaten 
ir. they return into the thicket, but in case they are 
neglected, this would be the ruin of the country, as 
they are not only numerous, but also savage and aggres- 
sive. According to the popular belief, they are a race 
of men changed into monkeys on account of the help 
which they had afforded to PArna when making war 
against the demons ; he is believed to have bequeathed 
those villages to them as a legacy. When a man 
happens to fall in with them, and he recites to them 
the poetry of llama and pronounces the incantations of 
llama, they will quietly listen to him : they will even 
VOL, L 0 


210 


ALBERUNPS INDIA. 


Tags 103 . 


I&kinds in 
tho ] ivliMii 
and Chinese 
SaaS, 


lead on the right path him who has? gone astray and 
give him meat and drink. At all events, thus the 
matter stands according to popular belief. If there is 
any truth in this, the effect must be produced by the 
melody, the like of which we have already mentioned 
in connection with the hunting of gazelles (v* p 195). 

The eastern islands in this ocean, which are nearer to 
China, than to India, are the islands of the Zdbf(j t called 
by the Hindus Silvers na-d^pa, ix. the gold islands. 
The western islands in this ocean are those of the Zanj 
(Negroes), and those in the middle are the islands 
liamm and the Diva islands (Male diva, huccadiva), to 
which belong also the 1 £ urn air islands. It is peculiar 
to the Diva islands that they rise slowly ; first, there 
appears a sandy tract above the surface of the ocean 5 it 
rises more and more and extends in all directions, till 
at last it becomes a firm soil, whilst at the same time 
another island falls into decay and melts away, finally 
is submerged and disappears in the ocean. As soon as 
the in habitants become aware of this process, they search 
for a new island of increasing fertility, transport there 
their cocoa-lint palms, dale palms, cereals, and house’ 
hold goods, and emigrate to it. These islands are, 
according to their products, divided into two classes, the 
l)tva-kiidhf^ t i.e. the Diva of the kauri- sheik, because 
there they gather kauri-shells from the branches of the 
cocoa-nut palms which they plant in the sea, and Diva- 
krmMr, i.e, the Diva of the cords twisted from cocoa- 
nut fibres, and used for fastening together the planks of 
the ships. 

The island of Alvjdk ivuk belongs to the Ifnmair 
islands. Kummr is not, as common people believe, the 
name of a tree which produces screaming human heads 
instead of fruits, but the name of a people the colour of 
whom is whitish. They are of short stature and of a 
build like that of the Turks. They practise the religion 
of the Hindus, and have the custom of piercing their 


CHAPTER XVIIL 


211 


ears. Some of the inhabitants of the Wdfawdk island 
are of black colour. In our countries there is a groat 
demand for them as slaves. People fetch from thence 
the black ebony- wood ; it is the pith of a tree, the other 
parts of which are thrown away, whilst the kinds of 
wood called mulmm d and $kauhat and the yellow 
sandal -wood are brought, from the country of the Zanj 
(Negroes). 

In former times there were pearl-banks in lhi j bay 
of Sarandib (Ceylon), but. at present they have been 
abandoned. Since the Sarandib pearls have disap- 
peared, other pearls have been found at Sufala in the 
country of the Zanj, so that people say the pearls of 
Sarandib have migrated to Sufala. 

India has the tropical rains in summer, which is called 
i‘a rshahUa, and these rains are the more copious and 
hist the lunger the more northward the situation of a 
province of India is, and the less it is intersected by 
ranges of mountains. The people of Mfilt&n used to 
tell me that they have no varshdkdl^ but the more 
northern provinces nearer the mountains have the mr- 
xhalMa. In Bliatal and Indravedi it begins with the 
month A shad ha, and it rains continually for four 
months as though water- buckets were poured out. In 
provinces still farther northward, round the mountains 
of Kashmir up to the peak of Judarl between Dim pur 
and Barshawar, copious rain falls during two and a half 
months, beginning with the month Sravana. However, 
on the other side of this peak there is no rainfall ; for 
the clouds in the north are very heavy, and do not rise 
much above the surface* When, then, they reach the 
mountains, the mountain -sides strike against them, and 
the clouds are pressed like olives or grapes, in conse- 
quence of which the rain pours down, and the clouds 
never pass beyond the mountains. Therefore Kashmir 
has no mrshaMltt, but continual snowfall during two 
and a half months, beginning with Magha, and shortly 


Oji the 
rutin JuH in 
India, 


2J1 


A LB BRUNTS INDIA* 


after tlie middle of Oaitra continual rain sets in for a 
few days,, melting the snow and cleansing the earth. 
This rule seldom lias an exception ; however, a certain 
amount of extraordinary meteorological occurrences is 
peculiar to every province of India. 


{ 2'3 ) 


CHAPTER XIX. 


ON THE NAMES OV THE PLANETS, TIIE SIGNS 07 THE 
ZODIAC, THE LUNAU STATIONS* AND BELATED SUB* 
JECTS. 


Ws have already mentioned, near the beginning of the 
hook* that the language of the Hindus is extremely Page 
rich in nouns, both original and derivative, so that in 
some instances they call one thing by a multitude of 
different names. Ho I have board them saying that 
they have a thousand names all meaning mn. ; and, no 
doubt, each planet has quite as many, or nearly as 
many names, since they could not do with less (for the 
purposes of verification). 

The names of the week-days are the best known Them™^ 
names of the planets connected with the word, b&ra, of the Weak, 
which follows after the planet's name, as in Persian the 
word skamhih follows after the number of the week- 
day {diUhmihik, &c.) T So they say — 


AdUya b&ra f i-c- Sunday, 
Somsi bum* Monday. 
Manrf/t/rt b(?rn, i.r,. Tuesday. 

ihuiht r htrw, i.c t Wetliinfidar* 


ttrifmgpati bdnt, Ae, Thursday. 
A'hAw Mra t i.s. Friday. 
tS'/nutifcnni bdr/t , Lt:. Sattmljiy. 


And thus they go on counting, beginning anew with 
Sunday, Monday, &c> 

Muslim astronomers call the planets the lords of the on th* 
dawn, and, in counting the hours of the day, they begin rfi'iAI™. 
with the dominus of the day, and. then count the planets 
in the order from above to below. Pot instance, the sun 
is the dominus of the first day, and at the same time the 


A L BERUN1'S INDIA, 


On ijjf'in 
k atpiKat 
Ain 'Ll isipnt* 
luTffiKpiMJm 


214 

dominus of It s first hour. The Becond hour is ruled by 
the planet of the sphere next under the sphere of the 
sun, i.e t Venus. The third hour is ruled by Mercury, 
and the fourth by the moon, Therewith the descending 
from the sun to the wther, i.e. the atmosphere of the 
earth, has an end, and in con nting they return to Saturn. 
According to this system, the dominus of the twenty- 
fifth hi our Is the rnoon, and this is the first hour of 
Monday, So the moon is not only the do warms of the 
first iiour of Monday, but also the doviimw of the whole 
day. 

In all this there is only one difference between our 
system and that of the Hindus* viz* that we use the S/w* 
Ki.upiKVA., so that the thirteenth planet* counted from 
the dommm did , is the dominus of the succeeding night. 
This is the third planet if you count in an opposite 
direction, ir, ascending from the lower planet- spheres 
to the higher. On the contrary t the Hindus make the 
do-minus did the do-minus of tile whole wyfh j^epor, so 
that day and night follow each other without having 
each a separate Aminats. This, at all events* is the 
practice of the people at large. 

Sometimes, however, their chronological methods 
make me think that the tupm tcaipiKai were not entirely 
unknown to them. They call the hour hora y and by 
the same name they call the half of a. zodiacal sign in 
the calculation of the ntmbahra* The following cal- 
culation of the dommm harm is derived from one of 
their astronomical handbooks 

rf Divide the distance between the snu and the degree 
oi the (t&eimk 7 is measured by equal degrees, by 1 5, and 
add to the quotient 1* dropping a fraction if there be 
any. This sum is then counted off from the dominus 
diet , according to the succession of the planets from 
above to below.” (The planet yon arrive at in the end 
is the dfmmms of the hour in question.) This calcula- 
tion is more of a nature to make us think of &pat 


CHAPTER XIX. 


- 1 5 


KiuptKftl as having "been used, than of %>cu iV-^e- 

pu^u. 

It is a custom of the Hindus to enumerate the planets 
in the order of the week-days. They will persist in 
using it in their astronomical handbooks, as well as in 
other books, and they decline- to use any other order f 
though it be much more correct. 

The Greeks mark the planets with figures, to fix 
thereby their limits on t fie astrolabe in an easily intel- 
ligible manner, images which are not letters of the 
alphabet. The Hindus use a similar system of abridge- 
ment; however, their figures are not images invented 
for the purpose, but the initial characters of the names 
of the planets, e.g. d = AdUytt^ or the sun ; e — fkmd-m 3 
or the moon ; l = Budhtt, or Mercury, 

The following table exhibits the commonest names 
ot' the seven planets : — 


The Planets, 

Tlioir XsinieE hi the Indian LaDguagA 

Son - . | 

AUitya f sdrya, bhumi, aita, div&kara, ravi, iubata ■; 1 ) , 
hob. 

Moon , j 

Soma, ontulra, Emin, lmuagu^Harasiur, Julmarn^ml, 

Si tii tii « u, yHadSflhttb lLirti[-i.ntavijkl:.a. 

Mars . . j 

Mangftla, bbaiimva. kuja., am, vakm. Svaneya, 
rrahuya, krMkshi (¥} t rakta. 

Mercury | 

Bud ha, samnya* od-ndra, jfta, hod liana, vlfeta {'l) f 

h eirnifi, 

Jupiter . j 

Yphasj-atis, gnrn, jtva, devejya, devapurobita, deva- 
mantrin, aftgiras, afiri , devapitn. 

Venn:* . j 

HuUru, blipgn, rntu, bbafgava, iiabal.E (7} f ilat)avaguru r 
bbrigu pi tt rd, (xh j >1 i uj i t ( 7), 

Saturn . j 

Sanai-Hcam, mamln, asiia + fcona, fidifcyaput.ra, saura, 
jirki, siiryapnLrti . 


The multiplicity of names of the sun as exhibited 
in the previous table was the cause which led the 
theologians to assume also a multiplicity of sum, so 


On] er of the 1 
planets itud 
i hoh' nota- 
tion. 


T*VLCfS TO£, 


On the 
twelve tuna. 


2l6 


ALBERUNrs INDIA. 


Nun] c* of 

tb* ificK>ck. 
Pftyc: roO- 


T1l«: LL;mtGB 
of the 
months, 


that according to them there are twelve suns, each of 
which rises in a particular month* The book Vishnu- 
dharma says ; 11 Vishnu, i.e. Narayana, who is without 
beginning in time and without end, divided himself 
for the angels into twelve parte, which became sons 
to Kasyapa. These are the suns rising in the single 
months/ 5 Those,, however, who do not believe that the 
multiplicity of names is the source of this theory of 
twelve suns, point out that the other planets also have 
many names, but each only one body, and that, besides, 
the names of the snn are not only twelve, but many 
more. The names are derived from words with generic 
meanings, e.g. AdUya, he, the beginning t because the 
sun is the beginning of the whole. Savitfi means 
every being which has a progeny, and since all progeny 
in the world originates with the sun, he is called 
SavitrL Further* the sun is called Ravi, because he 
dries w et substances. The juice in the plants is called 
ram f and he who takes it out of them is called raid. 

The moon too, the companion of the sun, has many 
names, e,g. Som& r because she is lucky, and everything 
lucky is called &om(igriiho , 7 whilst all that is unlucky is 
called p&pagmha. F Higher, NUem, ifi* lord of the night, 
Nakshatran&tka, i.e. lord of the lunar stations, JJvijdvara, 
ix. lord of the Brahmins, S'Udmiu, i.e. having a cold ray, 
because the moon's globe is water which is a blessing 
to the earth. When the solar ray meets the moon, the 
ray becomes as cool as the moon herself, then, being 
reflected, it illuminates the darkness, makes the night 
cool and extinguishes any hurtful kind of combustion 
wrought by the sun. Similarly the moon is also called 
(Jtnulrn, which, means the left eye of 1 Vamyaya, as the sun 
is his right eye. 

The following table exhibits the names of the months 
Disturbances aud differences in list b of these names pro- 
ceed from the causes which we filial! mention (v, p. 228) 
when speaking of the enumeration of the different earths. 


The Months 

Their Bums 
RGOGiding to rJjo 

nj/i jiH-Liiltt.f .. ■ l-L_ 

The Memiofj of the^o Names itccordi i ■ g to the FuJitiu-di’.'tfTir^c. 

Tins Suns 
ar owning- to tha 
Ar.i it m wj?umna. 

Vsibi AC idrir 
NiOueS. 

Caitra 

Vishnu . 

Moving about in. heaven, not resting , 

Amffomaait . 

Kavi. 

Va I silk ha . 

Aryaman 

\ Panlshing and beating the rebels. In consequence J 
) they do not oppose him. from fear . . , i 

S&vltri . 

Vishnu. 

Jyaishtha 

Vivasvant 

He looks at the whole in general, nol in detail < 

BhAnu . 

]>hat|L 

AsM<3b& . 

Aiiisu ■ 

Having rays . . 

Viv&svaat . 

Vklbfttri. 

Esrfivaiia „ 

Parjanya 

Affording help like the min 

Vishnu 

Ary a malt. 

Bhftd rapada 

Vanina 

He prepares the whole . 

Jndra . 

Bhaga. 

Aivayuja . 

In rim , 

Companion and lord . 

Dluitri * 

BavitrL 

Karfctika . 

Dhatri 

He gives benefits to men and rules them , 

Dhaga > 

Phsbttr. 

MArgatoba , 

Mitra . 

Beloved by the world 

Pus ban 

Tvashfri 

Pausha 

Piishan 

Nourishment,. for he nourishes men . 

Mitra . 

Arka- 

Mrlglm 

Bhaga . 

Lovely, desired by the universe ..... 

Varuna 

Divikam. 

PMlgiina , 

Tvaehfri 

He provides the whole with good , 

Aryaman 

AliLMlT. 


CHAPTER XIX. 


ALBBRUNFS INDIA . 


I'afte 107 . 


J' 1 1 ft LtatueR 
of the. 

dftr 3 vf/J 

from Lhwc 
of the lunar 

i:::iii^iijVi$ r 


218 

People think, with regard to the order of the names 
of sung aft given by the Vidiiyu-dkartiia, that it is 
correct and undisturbed; for Vusiidtmi has a separate 
name in each month, and his worshippers begin the 
months with MargaSrsha, In which his name is Ke.ktvu. 
If yon count his names one after the other, y on find that 
one which he has in the month Gaitra, Vishnu, in accord- 
ance with the tradition of the Vishmi-rfhurm.a. 

The names of the months are related to those of the 
lunar stations. As two or three stations belong to each 
month, the name of the month is derived from one of 
them* We have in the following table written these 
particular stations w it h red ink (in this translation with 
an asterisk), in order to point out their relationship with 
the names of the months. 

Tf Jupiter shines in some lunar station, the month to 
which this station belongs Is considered as the dominant 
of the year, and the whole year is called by the name of 
this month. 

If the names of the month given in the following 
table differ in some respects from those used heretofore, 
the reader must know that the names which we have 
hitherto used are the vernacular or vulgar ones, whilst 
those given in this table are the classical : — 


The Muntlis. 


The Lunar 
Statin hb. 

The Mouths. 


Thfl r.tmui' 

K&rfctiba r j 

I’ausLut . , | 
Mftglm . . j 

Ffi&lgnn* , | 
Caitra . . . J 

3 

4 

7 

a 

a 

IQ 

11 

12 

13 

H 

*5 

KjHtikfc* 
Raltii/i. 
Mri.^ii.slrsfea, * 

Tunai-vasiL 

Pnsbya.* 

mghtL* 

Pfirva-pbal- 

U ttara-phal- 
571131 L 

Rasta. 

Oitrfi.* 

Bvail 

Vaiailcla . j 
JysMitba . j 
Asb&dtia . | 
IS' r:'i vAttil . | 

lihi'LclmpadfL 1 
' 1 
Awvaytijii , | 

17 

IS 

[ 4 

j 1 '.-- 

31 

22 

23 

£ 4 
2 5 

26 

■27 

T 

2 

VWkhk* 

ArtnrchUih. 

asr-* 

I\irvft?i]Ludliu +_ 

UttarMiadha, 

S , 'n , I.T;m; l . " 

Dhrmishla, 

S'^tabliwhaj, 

PtUrva-tilifidra - 
pad&.* 

Uttar:*-biiAi3ra- 

pnilft. 

KriVatl. 

Asviiit* 

] lb itra Til, 



CHAPTER XIX, 


2. 19 

The signs of the zodiac have mimes corresponding to On ih* 

m* i-TT — _ i. J _ , names of 

the images which they represent, and which are the the mem of 

B * T w + ; r .. ji _ t.lns Zodiac. 

same among the Hindus as among all other nations. Fa^ds. 
The third sign is called Mitkuna, which means a pair 
consisting of a boy and a girl ; in fact., the same as the 
Twins, the well-known image of this sign. 

Vara h ami hira says in the larger book of nativities 
that the word applies to a man holding a lyre and a 
club, which makes me think that ho identified Mithun a 
with Orion (Aljahbdr). And this is the opinion of 
common people in general* to such a degree that the 
station is known as Aljauzd (instead of the Twins}, 
though Aljaiiza does not. belong to the imago of this 
sign. 

The same author explains the image of the sixth sign 
as a ship „ and in its hand an ear of corn. I am inclined, 
to think that in our manuscript there is a lacuna in this 
place, for a ship has no hand. The Hindus call this 
sign JCanyd, ie. the virgin girl* and perhaps the passage 
in question ran originally thus : f£ A virgin in a skip 
holding an ear of corn, in her hand” This is the lunar 
station A Isim dh : A T a ml ( Sp iea ), T1 ie word skip makes 
one think that the author meant the lunar station 
Atawwd {/?* p, y r &, e ± Virginia)* for the stars of Al'awwn 
form a line, the end of which is a curve (like the keel 
of a ship). 

The image of the seventh sign he declares to be f re. 

It is called Tuld ^balance. 

Of the ten ih sign Varfthamihira says that it lias the 
face of a goaf, whilst the remainder is a mahira (hippo- 
potamus). However* after having compared the sign 
with a mafoira, he might have saved himself the trouble 
of attributing to it the face of a goat. Only the Greeks 
require the latter description > because they consider the 
sign as composed of two animals* as a goat in the part 
above the breast and as a fish in the lower part, But 
the aquatic animal called mahrra, as people describe 


220 


ALBER UN PS INDIA. 


it, does not; require to be explained as a composition of 
two animals. 

The image- of the eleventh sign he calls a bucket, and 
th e nam e, K>. tm hh a , cor re spu nd s to tl t is eta t e men t. How- 
ever, if they sometimes enumerate this sign or part oi 
it. among the human figures, this proves that they, fol- 
lowing the example of the Greeks, see lit tl. Aquarius. 

The image of the twelfth sign he describes as the 
figure of two fishes, although the name of the sign in 
all languages signifies only one fish. 

Besides the well-known names, Varaharnihira men- 
tions also certain Indian names of the signs which are 
not generally known. We have united both kinds i n 
the following table > — 


Si 

E- 

s 

0 

£ . 

s.| 

6 

Hi 

S^ii 
= = ^ 

vM 

!- 

if 

f 

I 

£ . 

| 3 

sj 

,fcSS 

flj 

1 H 

Iss 

es£ 

£l1 

Q 

Mesba. 

Krij a. 

6 

Tula. 

JCiga* 

I 

Vishnu.. 

Tftmbim. 

7 

Yjlicikftr 

Kuurba. 

2 

MitbnmL. 

Jaimriiu 

S 

Dbami, 

Taukriifka. 

3 

Karkata. 

Kulira, 

9 

Makara. 

Agoklrn. 

4 

Sirhha. 

Liyaya. 

IQ 

Kumbah* 

Udtavaga. 

5 

Kixnytt* 

T&rtlna* 

I I 

Mina. 

Aula, uhft 


It. is the c ustom of tb e Hindus in en u in e rati ng the 
zodiacal signs not to begin with o for Aries and i 
for T&untSj but to begin with i for Arina and 2 for 
Taurus, &c., so that Pisces are No. 12. 


( 32 ] ) 


CHAPTER XX, 

ON THE UK ARM AND A. 

BiuiimaNda means the egg of Brahman, and applies in 
reality to the whole of heaven (aldfjp) T on account of its 
being ronmh and of the particular hind of its motion, 
ft applies even to the whole world, in so far as it is 
divided into an upper and an under part. When they 
enumerate the heavens, they call the sum of them 
Brahmanxja, The Hindus, however, are devoid of train- 
ing in astronomy, and have no correct astronomical 
notions. In consequence, they believe that the earth 
is at rest, more particularly as they, when describing 
the bliss of paradise as something like worldly happi- 
ness, make the earth the dwelling-place of the different 
classes of gods, angels, dr a, to whom they attribute loco- 
motion and the direction from the upper worlds to the 
lower* 

According to the enigmatic expressions of their tradi- 
tion, the water was before every other thing, and it 
filled the space of the whole world. This was, as I 
understand them, at the beginning of the day of the soul 
(■pitriiskahoratra, p. 33 2). and the- beginning of formation 
an d co in b i n at i on . F u i t.h er, fch ey say t.h e w ate r wa s red 1 - 
ing and foaming. Then something white came forth 
from the water, of which the Creator created the egg 
of Brahman. Xow, according to some, the egg broke : 
Brahman came forth from it, the one half became the 
heaven, the other the earth, ami the broken bits between 
the two halves became the rains. If they said maun- 


ThG afftf iif 
Urfthmuu, 
it±s comfnjf 

forth IVotih 

the W;Lttf 
P.'vg'ii 109. 


Greek par- 
allel : Aedu- 
ipljftfc. 


Water the 
first. de- 
ment of 
creatiou. 
The 

lituhumui 
broken bi 
tvvu tnjdveBi 


22 3 ALBERUNPS INDIA . 

tains instead of rains, the matter would be somewhat 
more plausible. According to others, God spoke to 
Bra Inn an : u I create an egg* which I make for thy 
dwelling in it." lie had created it of the above men- 
tioned foam of the water, but when the water sank and 
was absorbed, the egg broke into two halves. 

Similar opinions were held by the ancient Greeks 
regarding Asclepius, the inventor of the medical art; 
for, according to Galon us, they represent him as holding 
an egg in his hand, whereby they mean to indicate that 
the world is round, the egg an image of the uni verse, 
and that the whole world needs the medical art. Aecle- 
pius does not hold a lower position in the belief of the 
Greeks than Brahman in the belief of the Hindus, for 
they say that lie is a divine power, and that his name 
is derived from his action, i.& protecting against dryness, 
which means death, because death occurs when dryness 
and cold are prevalent, As for his natural origin, they 
call him the son of Apollo, tlic son of Phlegyas (?), and 
the son of Kronos, i.&, the planet Saturn. By this 
system of affiliation they mean to attribute to him the 
force of a threefold god. 

The theory of the Hindus, that the water existed 
before all creation, rests on this, that it is the cause of 
the cohesion of the atoms of everything, the cause of 
the growing of everything, and of the duration of life in 
every animated being. Tims the water is an instrument 
in the hand of the Creator when he wants to create 
something out of matter. A similar idea Is propounded 
by the Koran xi. 9 : ct And his (God's) throm urts on the 
■imkr” Whether you explain it in an external way 
as an individual body called by this name, and which 
God orders us to venerate, or whether you give it the 
intrinsic meaning of realm, i.e. God’s realm, or the 
like, in any case the meaning is this, that at that 
time beside God there was nothing but the water and 
his throne. If this our book were not restricted to 


CHAPTER XX. 


223 


the ideas of one single nation, we should produce from 
the belief of the nations who lived in ancient times In 
and round Babel ideas similar to the egg of Brahman, 
and even more stupid and unmeaning than that. 

The theory of the division of the egg into two halves 
proves that, its originator was the contrary of a scientific 
man. one who did not know that the heaven compre- 
hends the earth } as the shell of the egg of Brahman 
comprehends its yolk. He imagined the earth to be 
below and the heaven in only one of the six directions 
from the earth. above it. If he had known the 
truth, he might have spared himself the theory of the 
breaking of the egg. However, he wished by Ids theory 
to describe one half of the egg as spread out for the 
earth, and the other half as placed upon it for a cupola, 
trying to outvie Ptolemy in the pi an i spheric represen- 
tation of a globe, but without success. 

There have always been similar fancies afloat, which 
everybody interprets as best suits his religion and 
philosophy. So Plato says 5 n his T imams something 
like the Brahman da ; ** The Creator cut a straight thread 
into halves, Wish each of them he described a circle, 
so that the two circles met in two places, and one of 
them, he divided into seven parts.” In these words lie 
hints, as is Ills custom, at the original two motions of 
the universe (from east to west in the diurnal rotation, 
and from west to east in the precession of the equi- 
noxes), and at. the globes of the planets. 

Brahmagupta- says in the first chapter of the Btahma- 
siddhdntU) where he enumerates the heavens, placing 
the moon in the nearest heaven, the other planets in 
the following ones, and Saturn in the seventh : 41 The 
fixed stars are In the eighth heaven, and this has been 
created round in order to last for ever, tiiat. in it. the 
pious may be rewarded, the wicked be punished, since 
there is nothing behind it," ! I e indicates in this chapter 
that the heavens are identical with the spheres, and he 


* IO. 


Quo t:\ti on 
from PLUo'e 
JSjtfbfK an. 


Quota Lion, 
from Brail- 
maguptn. 


A LB BRUNTS INDIA. 


IT Li Li I tlia 
( !i 

of F'lHil- 


Quc tat ions 
E mm Prak- 
magaptaj 

VdauaMhui, 
Balath^;! m, 
and At j >\- 
Ihata. 


2 24 

gives them in an order which differs from that of the 
traditional literature of their creed, as we shall show 
hereafter in the proper place. He indicates, too, that 
the round can only he slowly influenced from without. 
He evinces his knowledge of the Arhfotehc notions 
regarding the round form and the rotating motion, and 
that there is no body in existence behind the spheres. 

If it is of this description, evidently Krahm&nda is 
the totality of the spheres, ix. the (d&tfp, in fact, the 
universe, for retribution in another life takes place, ac- 
cording to the ideas of the Hindus, within it. 

Pa lisa says in his Siddhdnta ; “The totality of the 
world is the sum of earth, water, fire, wind, and heaven, 
Th e latte r w as c r e a i ed behind the dark ness. It appears 
to the eyes as blue, because it is not reached by the 
rays of the sun and not illuminated by them Like 1 he 
watery non -igneous globes, i.e. the bodies of the planet 
and the moon. When the rays of the sun fall upon 
these and the shadow of the earth does not reach them, 
their darkness disappears and their figures become visi- 
ble in the night. The light- giver is only one. all the 
others receive the light from him/" In this chapter 
Pulisa speaks of the utmost limit that can be reached, 
and calls it heaven, lie places it in darkness, since lie 
says that it exists in a place which is not readied by 
the rays of the sun. The question as to the bine-grey 
colour of heaven which is perceived by the eye is of too 
great an extent to be touched upon here. 

Brahmagupta says in the above-mentioned chapter: 
"Multiply the cycles of the moon, i.e. 57,75 3,3 OG,OOQ, 

, by the number of the yqjana of her sphere, ix. 324,000, 
and you get as the product 18,712,069,200,000,000, i.e. 
the number of the yojtma of the sphere of the zodiac/’ 
Of the ycrjmuf as a measure of distance we have already 
spoken in the chapter on metrology (ch. xv, p, 167), 
We give the j list-mentioned calculation of Brahma- 
gupta. simply reproducing his words without any re- 


CHAPTER XX. 22$ 

spongibility of our own, for bo has not explained on 
what reason it rests, Vasi&htha says that the Brah- 
mfmda comprehends the spheres, and the just-mentioned 
n umbers are the measure of the Brahman^ since the 
sphere of the zodiac is connected with it. The com- 
ment nr Balabhadra says: 14 We do not consider these 
numbers as a measure of heaven, for wo cannot define 
its greatness, but we consider them as the utmost limit 
to which the human power of vision can penetrate. 
There is no possibility of human perception reaching 
above it ; but the other spheres differ from each other 
in greatness and smallness, so as to be visible in various 
i] eg r ee s, ” Th e f ol l owners of A ry a bb at a say : ’ 1 1 1 is su fti - 
dent, for us. to know the space winch is reached by the 
solar rays. We do not want the space which is not 
reached by the solar rays, though it be in itself of an 
enormous extent. That which is not reached by the 
rays is not reached by the perception of the senses, 
and that which is not reached by perception is not 
knowableT 

Let ns now examine the bearing of the words of these 
a u th ors , T h e w ords of Yasiah t h a p ro ve th at t h e Brah - 
mfmda is a globe comprehending the eighth or so called 
zodiacal sphere, in which the fixed stars are placed, and 
that th e 1 w o s.| il i e res t o u cl i ear h oth e r, N o w w r a o n our 
own part were already obliged to assume an eighth 
sphere, but there is no reason why we should suppose 
a ninth one. 

On tins head the opinions of people are divided. 
Some hold the existence of a ninth sphere to be a neces- 
sity on account of the rotation from east to west, in so 
far as it moves in this direction and compels everything 
which it comprehends to move in the same direction. 
Others assume the ninth sphere on account of the same- 
motion. but suppose that it by itself is motionless. 

The tendency of the representatives of the former 
theory is perfectly clear. However, Aristotle has proved 

VOL. I. P 


Fajt? ii r. 


CriticEsfiis 
nil the 
rliffercist 
thcuricK. 

Ti K: i ntc&tJtiaj 
th-.; imitJj 
tpL crv. 


ALBERUNTS INDIA , 


A ri atot Lc, 
PEolraij'j 
Johanda* 

una. 


??6 

that each moving body is brought into motion by some- 
thing moving which is not within itself. fc>o also this 
ninth sphere would presuppose a mover outside itself. 
What, however, should prevent rids mover from putting 
tho eight spheres into motion without the intermedia- 
tion of a ninth sphere ? 

As regards the representatives of the second view, 
one might almost think that they had a knowledge of 
the words of Aristotle which we have quoted, and that 
they knew that the first mover is motionless, for they 
represent the ninth sphere- as motionless and as the 
source of the east to west rotation. However, Aristotle 
has also proved that the first mover is not a body., 
whilst he must be a body, if they describe him as a 
globe, as a sphere, and as comprehending something 
else within itself and motionless. 

Thus the theory of the ninth sphere is proved to be 
an impossibility. To the same effect are the words of 
Ptolemy in the preface of his Almagest; “The first 
cause of the first motion of the universe, if we consider 
the motion by itself, is according to our opinion an in- 
visible and motionless god, and the study of this sub- 
ject. we call a divine. me. We perceive his action in 
the highest heights of the world, but as an altogether 
different one from the action of those substances which 
can be perceived by the senses.” 

These arc the words of Ptolemy on the first mmer, 
without any indication of the ninth sphere. Put the 
latter is mentioned by Johannes Grammaticus in his 
refutation of Prod us, where he says: “Plato did not 
know a ninth, starless sphere,” And, according to Jo- 
hannes, it was tin's, ie. the negation of the ninth sphere, 
which Ptolemy meant to say. 

Finally, there are other people who maintain that 
behind the last limit of motion there is an infinite rest- 
ing body or an infinite racuum, or something which they 
declare to be neither a vacuum nor a plenum. These 


CHAPTER XX. 


357 


theories* however, have no connection whatsoever with 
our subject. 

JMabhadra gives ns the impression of holding the 
same opinion as those who think that heaven or the 
heavens are a compact body holding in equilibrium all 
heavy bodies and carrying them, and that it. Is above 
the spheres. To Balabbadra it is just as easy to prefer 
tradition to eyesight* as it is difficult to us to prefer 
doubt to a clear proof. 

The truth is entirely with the followers of Aryabhata 
who give us the impression of really being men of great 
scientific attainments It is perfectly evident that 
Brahman da means the aift-jp, together with all products 
of creation in it. 


( ) 


On the 

■L^Lrtbsi. 
r-d^c j i3. 


DfflbrGiit^ss 
in the 
aeqiicucQ a-f 
tfciG fcLltllH 
e-iLpmuud. aw 
ra^ultitig: 
from the 

COliLOLlSIltS* 

of the 
language. 


C HA ITER XXL 

mcSCKimON OF EAKTII AND HEAVEN ACCORDING TO TITI'3 
RELIGIOUS VIEWS OF THE HINDUS, CAsSED UPON 
THlLIt TRADITIONAL LITERATURE. 

The people of whom we have spoken in the preceding 
chapter think that the earths are seven like seven 
covers one above the other, and the upper one they 
divide into seven parts, differing from our astronomers, 
who divide it into wAipira, and from the Persians, who 
divide it into JCi&kvar. We shall afterwards give a clear 
explanation of their theories derived from the first 
authorities of their religions law, to expose the matter 
to fair criticism. If something in it. appears strange to 
ns, so as to require a commentary, or if we perceive some 
coincidence with others, even it both parties missed the 
mark, we shall simply put the case before the reader, 
not with the intention of attacking or reviling the 
Hindus, but solely in order to sharpen the minds of 
those who study these- theories, 

They do not differ among themselves as to the num- 
ber of earths nor as to the number of the parts of the 
upper earth s but they differ regarding their names and 
ill* order of these names. I am inclined to derive this 
difference from the great verbosity of their language, for 
they call one and the same thing by a multitude of names. 
For instance^ they call the sun by a thousand different, 
names according to tlieir own statement, just as the 
Arabs call the lion by nearly as many, Some of these 
names are original, while others arc derived from the 
changing conditions of his life or Ins actions and facul- 
ties. The Hindus and their like boast of this copious- 
5 less, whilst in reality it is one of the greatest faults of 


CHAPTER XXL 


229 


the language 1 . For it is the task of language to give a 
name to everything in creation and to its effects, a name 
based on general consent, so that everybody, when hear- 
ing this name pronounced by another man, understands 
vf h a t ] j e m pans, 1 i' t-t t e n 1 fore 01 j e and i li e earn e n a ] i le o r 
word means a variety of things, it bet-rays a defect of the 
language and compels the hearer to ask the speaker 
wbat he means by the word. And thus the word in 
question must, be dropped In order to be replaced either 
by a similar one 0 i a sufficiently clear meaning, or by 
an epithet describing what is really meant. IF one and 
the same thing is called by many names, and this is not 
occasioned, by the fact that every tribe or class of people 
uses a separate one of them, and if, in fact, one single 
name would be sufficient, all the other names save this 
one are to be classified as mere nonsense, as a means 
of keeping people in the dark, and throwing an air of 
mystery about the subject- And in any case this 
copiousness offers painful difficulties to those who want 
to learn the whole of the language, for it is entirely use- 
less. and only results in a sheer waste of time- 

Frequently it has crossed my mind that the authors 
of books and the transmitters of tradition have an aver- 
sion to mentioning the earths in a definite arrangement, 
and limit, themselves to mentioning their names, or that 
the copyists of the books have arbitrarily altered the 
text. For those men who explained and translated the 
text to me were well versed in the language, and were not 
known as persons who would commit a wanton fraud. 
The following table exhibits the names of the earths, 
as far as I know them. We rely chiefly on that list* 
which has been taken from the A ditya-$ntr&na t because 
it follows a certain rule, combining every single earth 
and heaven with a single member of the members of the 
s u n , Th e h eaven s are co m bined with th e mem bers f ro m 
the skull to the womb, the earths with the members from 
the navel to the foot. This mode of comparison illus- 
trates their sequence and preserves it from confusion : — - 


The afirtVia 
aacarti 1 « ■ 
tka jil-Ufyii' 


PiAgU 1 1 J, 


230 


A LEBRUN VS INDIA 


3 

% 

|| 

1- 

-a> 

£ 


I 

r 

| 

JP&tjfM-/ 1 cutf itt!. 

if 

; 

£ 

a 

rt 

a 

> 

SjO 

;-■ 0 

Jg§ 

^ -J C? 

"2a 

■£ 

B 

ft 

i 

8 

a 

5 

ft 

F- 

■S 

-= 

rr 1 

lb 

a 

| 

fS 1 

5 

J3 

E- 


U 

a 

•V 

-fl 

EH 

T#1el 

sj 

A tala* % 

a 

<<! 

'§ 

<= ^ 

^1 1h . 

r=> rt ri=i 

iH § 
^ <0 
4 Gfl -*- 1 

AuiriU (?) 


■* 

"si- 

B 

-►* 

T« 

J 

H 

SufcGla, 

Vit.aJa. 

j 

HH 

§ ^ 
r^= 

J tD -' 

s T :z 

3 - & 
13 2 * 
■?€ 

03 

Aiabarat^la. 

> 

1 — 

r- 

33 

Hi 

a 

,14 

QJ 1 

-El 

H 

FAtiillL 

N itafa; 

?s 

3 

£ 

A 

B 

A 

1 

- 

0 

k-T 

'S . 

jig 

1 

ft> r [iikara (?) 

. 

8 1 A&la IJ> 

FT- □ 

a •* 

£1 

GabliaslimEtt. 

1 

'I ? 

•3-3 1 
- 

^ Z/ ti 

sE" 

Gabhastimati. 

> 

w 

c$ 

> 

* 

aj 

ViMla (?) 

Msbikbya (?) 

■i 

1 

1 

Jh 

■s-i 

7 

s.s 

3 E S 

■d ^ 

Ph 

MabbltoJa.. 

> 

di 

V 

M 

□ 

<u 

J 

EH 

Mait.i &1&. 

Sut&la* 

i 

1 

r 

Ft-i 

J* ■ 
ill 

s 2 -c 

r* M, Jp 
«.£ 

Sutdla + 


■Hi 

■q-i 

ffi 

-q 

r -1 

ItasfiitalEL. 

Jigara (?) 

3 

£ 

s ■ ^ 

rf S.T? 

•-, i) 

r y h 

5 72 0 

5 c 

6 5 

Rasatala, 


CHAPTER XXL 


TIIE SPIRITUAL PL! XUS LIVING ON THE SEVEN 

EARTHS ACCORDING TO THK V AYU-Pl r KAJSI A. 

Of t ! i D&fi&vas Nam 11 c L Hn nk n knrna, Ka ban cl f iii [ ' ' j , N i * 1 1 k 1 1 - 
kAda [?), iSLiliTiiaijla, Lcdma r Kalfnjga, fivupada ; and the master of 
i fie setpents— T>li:mafijaya, Kaliya* 

Of i hr Dairvas— Surakshas, Mal^jambba* llayftgriva, Krudnia, 
.Iiinarta [T], Sar'tklcaklisEia, Gohiukka*; and of the Rakabasa — 
Ni]a f Megha, Kratbanaka, MaboahnisLa, Kambala* Aivatara, 
Takshaka* 

Of the D5auLya$ — Rada p) f AuublAdii, Agnimukha, Tiuakukslja, 
Trial ra„ ^iium&ra ; and of tho Uslkshasa— Oy&r&na, Nanda, VU&kL 
And there are many elites in this world, 

Of tho 1 jjLit.va.s- KAlartemi, Cajukartia. Uiijara (?) ; and of the 
RAkflliaua— Stimuli . Miiiija, Yrikavaktra, and Ibc largo birds called 
Garcida. 

Of tho Baity as — Virocana, Jayanta {?), Agnijlhva, Hirauyilksha : 
and of the Rlk&hasa — Vidyuj jihya, Mah&mcgha ; the serpent 
Kfl ltd lira „ S vast] keij ay a. 

Of rlie Daityas— Kesari ; and oE Ibe IkUtshasa — Ordhvakuja (7), 
E&tasirsba, i.e. having a hundred heads* a friend of Indra; VAsnki, 
a serpent. 

Tho king I3ali ; and of the Baity a Mucnkunda. In this vrorlti 
1 1n; 3i ■ are many 1 to uses for the Rlkshaaa, and Vishnu resides there, 
and Sesha, the master of the serpents. 

After the earths follow the heavens, consisting of 
seven stories , one above the other* They are called 
lokct, which means u gather in/f-pl me In a similar 
manner also the Greeks considered the heaven a as 
gathering -pi aces. So Johannes Grammaticus says in 
his refutation of Prod ns : '"Some philosophers thought, 
that the sphere called ya ka^tas, i,c. mil/,:, by which 
they mean the milky way, is a dwelling-place for 
rational souls Y The poet Homer says : “ Them hast 
made the pure heaven an eternal dwelling-place for the 
gods. The winds do not shake it, the rains do not 
wet it, and the snow does not destroy it. For in it there 
is resplendent clearness without any covering cloud.” 

Pluto says: f ’ God spoke to the seven planets: Yon 
are the gods of the gods, and I am the father of the 
actions; I am he who made you so that no dissolution 


Vngv ci 4 , 


On thfl 

fleTen 

lieaveuE. 

QucitntitfnR 

from 

Johannas 
fl mmum i.i - 
cuflj Plato, 
;iaid Asrie- 
mtlc. 


ALB ER UNI'S INDIA , 


PH£D < ($< 


Criticisms 
ud the com- 
men t Ft tor of 
FatahjaLi. 
I'v.gc ] 16, 


232 

is possible ; for anything bound, though capable of 
being loosen ed, is not exposed to destruction, as long 
as its order is good," 

Aristotle says in his letter to Alexander : “The 
world is the order of the whole creation. That which 
is above the world, and surrounds if on the sides, is the 
dwelling-place of the gods. Heaven is full of the gods 
to which we give the name of stars," In another place 
of the same book he says, “The earth is bounded by 
the water, the water by the air, the air by the ft re, the 
fire by the ai&fjp. Therefore the highest place is the 
dwelling-place of the gods t and the lowest , the home 
of the aquatic animals," 

There is a similar passage in the Vdyu-Furdna to 
this effect, that the earth is held in its grasp by the 
water, the water by the pure tire, the fire by the wind, 
the wind by heaven, and heaven by its lord. 

The names of the lokas do not differ like those of 
the earths. There is a difference of opinion only re- 
garding their order. We exhibit the names of the 
lokas in a table similar to the former (p. 230), 



WLiat iisemb&ivi rnf 

Their Names 

The Nnmljcr Of the 

tlm Sun tli ay 

I'wijur-diHy to t^e 

m&7oi 1 a. 

Hant aGoovdmg tft 

Aditfftt-i V*l\rH -lu..] 


Lhe A 

Fi.lA -tU jPldrtlHiH.i, 

L 

TLt! stomach. 

Bhijilota. 

1L 

Tiit breast. 

Bhuvarloka. 

in. 

The mouth. 

Svarfoka. 

IV* 

The eyebrow. 

M ah a rlak a. 

V. 

The forehead. 

Janaloka. 

YL 

f Above the 1 
li forehead* j 

Taj jo 1 p fe& , 

VIL 

The skulL 

Balya l oka. 


This theory of the earths is the same with all Hindus, 
except atone the commentator of the book of Pat.ahjali. 
He had heard that the Fitaras, or fathers, had their 
gathering-place in the sphere of the moon, a tradition 
built on the theories of the astronomers. In conse- 


CHAPTER XXI. 


233 


quence lie made the 1 Linar sphere the first heaven, 
whilst he ought to have identified it with BhUrloka. 

And because by this method 3m had one heaven too 
many, he dropped the Starlolm. the place of reward. 

The same author differs besides in another point. 

As the seventh heaven, Satyaluka. is in the Pur&nas 
also called BraJmaloha, he placed the Brahmaloka 
above the Satyaloka, whilst it would have been much 
more reasonable to think that in this case one and the 
same thing is called by two different names. He ought 
to have omitted the Jj rah rn aloha, to have identified 
Pi triloba with Ehurloka, and not to have left, out the 
Sv aid oka. 

80 much about the seven earths and the seven 
heavens. We shall now speak of the division of the 
surface of the uppermost earth and of related subjects. 

Dip ( 'dvipn ■) js the Indian word for island. Hence The extern 
the words Smifjaktdip (Simhaladvipa), which we call ftTLUi Wi. 
Se re 11 d i b „ and th e Dibi ijdt (M ale d i y es , Lac cad i yes) . r I die 
latter are numerous islands, which become, so to speak, 
decrepit, are dissolved and flattened, and finally dis- 
appear below the water, whilst at the same time other 
formations of the same kind begin to appear above the 
water like a streak of sand which continually grows 
and rises and extends. The inhabitants of the former 
island leave their homes, settle on the new one and 
colonise it. 

According to the religious, traditions of the Hindus, 
the earth on which we live is round and surrounded by 
a sea. On the sea lies an earth like a collar, and on 
this earth lies again a round sea like a collar. The 
number of dry collars, called island^ is seven, and 
likewise that, of the seas. The size of both dvipn# and 
seas rises in such a progression that each dvtpa is the 
double of the preceding dvipet^ each sea the double of 
the preceding sea, i.e. in the progression of the powers 
of two. If the middle earth is reckoned as one, the 


2 34 


A LB BRUNTS INDIA , 


The si** oF 
T-Lln Lk-q.ilw 
anil ?,i>ili$ p 
AC CCHnii ctg to 
thu GOtrt- 



P:itafLjaii 
and t-Liu 
Mb; l.!- 


size of all seven earths represented as collars is 127, 
If the sea surrounding the middle earth is counted as 
one. the size of all seven seas represented as collars is 
127. The total size of both earths and seas is 254. 

The commentator of the book of J ■atafijali lias adopted 
as the size of the middle earth 100.000 yojana. Accord- 
ingly, the size of all the earths would be 12,700.000 
yojana. Farther ho adopts as the size of the sea which 
surrounds the middle earth 200,000 yojmm. Accord- 
ingly , the size of all the seas would be 25,400,000 
and the total size of ail the earths and seas 
33,100,000 yojmui, However, the author himself has 
not. made these additions. Therefore we cannot com- 
pare his numbers with ours. But the V’&yw-Fur&na 
says that the diameter of the totality of earths and seas 
is 37,900,000 yojana , a number which does not agree 
with the above-mentioned sum of 38,100,000 ifojan<t. 
It cannot be accounted for, unless we suppose that the 
number of earths is only six, and that the progression 
begins with the number 4 instead of 2. Such a num- 
ber of seas (i.e. 6 ) may possibly be explained in this 
way, that the seventh one has been dropped, because 
the author only wanted to hud The size of the contin- 
ents, which induced him to leave the last, surrounding 
sea out of the calculation. But if he once mentions 
the continents he must also mention all the seas which 
surround them. Why he has commenced the pro- 
gression with 4 instead of 2, I cannot account for by 
any of the principles of the calculation as they have 
been laid down. 

Each dnpa and sea has a separate name. As far as 
we know them, wc place them before the reader in the 
following table, and hope that the reader will excuse ns 
for so doing. 


' si. 
in 

S-VJ 
^ £ -3 

i ir 

il ii ta y a- f ' u nina. 

Th a C mb rn Eu til tor o t P ata. ft j u, 1 i — ■ 

VfahlijLtt* Pfiri^A,. 

YtrtWicwJA* Ssunea, 



Dvtpaa, 

Kgsljs. 

Dtl^. 

fi^vs. 

i. 

j£Lmbii-dvipa. ■ 

Lavaca, j\f* 
salt- 

Jambu, 

the name of a tree. 

Kshara. Le. 

« alt* 

Jam bo. 

Lavans^sanuidni. 

ii. 

jiSta-dvjijpa. j 

K&hirodaka, s-f T 
milk* 

Pi&ksha, 

Lhe name of a tree. 

Ikshu, £.fi. 
sugar-cane. 

HSka* 

tkshu. 

hi. 

ICn^a-dvJpa. j 

Ghritamumla, Le, 
butter. 

S&Imuli, 

the name of a tree. 

Surd, i-.fh 
wine. 

Knia. 

Surd. 


Kraufica-dvipa, j 

Dailhiirian^u L?. 
thick milk. 

Ivlina* 

the name of a plant. 

Sarpis* Le. 
butter. 

■ Kraubca. 

Barpis. 

V. 

B&mali-dvipa. J 

Sunil* i-L\ 
vice- wine* 

Kiunfkc&i 
the hosts. 

Dad hi* Le, 
sour- milk. 

^dUnal], 

Dadhiwlgara 

VI. 

Gomcda-dvlpa. | 

Ik&hmasoda, Le. 
the juice of 
sugar-cane. 

IS ;lk H. 

the name of a tree. 

KehEra, i,c+ 
milk. 

1 Gomeda* 

1 ' 

Kshira. 

VII* 

Puahkara- J 

dvipa. ) 

Bvadtiedaka, Le, 
water. 

Fushk&rft, 

Lhe name of a tree. 

STddidakfl.* Le. 
sweet water. 

i 

j Pushkara* 

IMidys. 


£ 

H 
ft 
* 3 


Ui 

gi 


A LEER U NFS INDIA h 


Pjl#* 


Qiictuticm 
fram the 
ODmn is? i t-u - 
tor oi Fata h- 
jalL 


^.36 

The differences oi the traditions as exhibited by this 
table cannot be accounted for in any rational way. They 
can hardly have sprung from any other source but from 
ar bi t rary , acci den t.al cl 1 aii ges of the e n 11 m e ratio u , The 
roost: appropriate of these traditions is that of the 
j\ fatsya-PurdtjUi because it enumerates the dvipas and 
seas one. after the other according to a fixed order* a 
sea surrounding an island, an island surrounding a pea, 
the enumeration proceeding from the centre to the 
periphery. 

We shall now in this place record some related sub- 
jects, though it would perhaps be more correct to treat 
of them in some other part of the book. 

The commentator of the book of Patanjali, wishing 
to determine the dimension of the world, begins from 
below and says : “ The dimension of the darkness is one 
koti and 85 IdksJm yojana, i*e. 18*000,000 yqjftmu 

“Then follows Naraht, i.e. the hells* of the dimension 
of 13 koii and 12 Utksha t i.e, 131,200*000 y&janet. 

“Then follows darkness* of on a lah^hn, i.e. iOO f OOO 
yojana. 

“ Above it lies the earth Vajm, an called on account 
of its hardness, because the word means a duemmd, and 
the- molten tlmnder-hoU, of 34,000 yojana. 

“Above it lies the middle earth Gfrrhfia t of 60,000 
yojana. 

“Above it lies the golden earth, of 30,000 yojana, 

“ Above this the seven earths, each of ]Q,Ooo yojana, 
which makes the sum of 70,000 yojamt. The upper one 
of them is that which contains the tteipns and the seas + 

“Behind the sweet-water sea lies Lobiloka, which 
means a n ot-gi ithmng-pkwe f i.e. a place without civilisa- 
tion and inhabitants, 

“Thereupon. follows the gold -earth of one Iio(.i r i.e. 
10,000.000 yojana ; above it the Ftirilobt. of 6,13.1,000 
yojana, 

“The totality of the seven loh*^ which is called Sr ah.- 


CHAPTER XXL 


mtttf ila i has the dimension of r; koti i ix. 130*000,000 
yojana. And above this is the darkness tamos, similar 
to the lowest darkness, of i8,500 : QQ0 yojima? 

We on our part found it already troublesome to 
enumerate all the seven seas, together with the seven 
earths, and now this author thinks he can make the sub- 
ject more easy and pleasant to us by inventing some more 
earths below those already enumerated by ourselves ! 

r i ’1 1 e Vi&h mi- Ft tr& n a 3 w h en trea ti ng of si m i l ar s nbj e cts, 
says: “There is a serpent tinder the seventh lowest, 
earth, which is called Scsli&ftftnfa, worshipped among 
the spiritual beings. It is also called Ananta. It has 
a thousand heads* and bears the earths without being 
molested by their heavy weight. These earths, one 
stored above the other, are gifted with good things 
and happiness, adorned with jewels, illuminated by 
their own rays, not by those of sun and moon. The 
latter two luminaries do not rise in them. Therefore 
their temperature is always equal, they have everlasting 
fragrant- Bowers, blossoms of trees and fruits; their in- 
habitants have no notion of time, since they do not 
be com e aw a re of ai 1 y m ot io n s by coimti ng them. T heir 
dimension is 70,000 ynjana, the dimensions of each 
being 10,000, Narada, the Kishi, went down in order 
to see them, and to acquaint himself with the two kinds 
of beings which inhabit them, the Baity a and JMnava, 
When he then found the bliss of paradise to be rather 
insignificant in comparison with that of these earths, 
he returned to the angels, giving his report to them, 
arid rousing their admiration by Ms description/' 
Further., the following passage : “ 13 eh in d the sweet- 
water sea lies the gold earth t the double of the totality 
of the dvtpas and seas; but not inhabited by men nor 
by d einou s. B el 1 in d i t ] ie s Lol a loka , a i n 01 l i i t-ai n of I. h e 
height of 10,000 yojana, and of the same breadth. Its 
whole dimension is 50 koti, ix. 500,000,000 yojantt™ 
The totality of all this is in the Hindu language 


1 1 9. 


2 - 3 $ 


A LB BRUNTS INDIA, 


sometimes called dh.&tri, i.e. holding all things, and 
sometimes vidk(Ur% Le k letting loose all things It is also 
called Ike dwelling -'place of every living being, and by 
various other names, which differ as people differ in 
their opinions about, the vacuum. Those who believe 
in the vacuum make it the cause why all bodies are 
attracted towards it, whilst those who deny the vacuum 
declare that it is not. the cause of the attraction. 

Then the author of the Kish jj u-Pnrdy a returns to the 
Lokas and says : " Everything which a foot car] tread 
upon and a ship sail in, is Bh&rioka * 7 This seems to 
be an indication of the surface of the uppermost earth. 
The air, which is between the earth and the sun, in 
which the Siddhas T the Munis, and the Gandharvas ? 
the musicians, wander to and fro, is the Bkuvavloka. 
The whole of -these three earths is called the three 
-prilhivi. That which is above them is Vyma -man deda, 
i.e . the realm of Yyasa. The distance between the 
earth and sun is 100,000 yojana,, that between the sun 
and the moon is the same. The distance between the 
moon and Mercury is two htkdius, i.e, 200,000 yofma, 
that between Mercury and Venus is the sam e ► The 
distances between Venus and Mars, Mars and Jupiter, 
Jupiter and Saturn, are equal, each being 200,000 
y tf ema. The distance between Saturn and the Great 
.Bear is 100,000 yojana^ and that from the Great Bear 
to the pole is 1000 yojana. Above it is Maharloha, at 
a distance of 20 millions of yojtmo ; above if, the Jina- 
loktt , at a distance of So millions ■ above it, Pitviloka, at 
a distance f 480 millions ; above it, SatyahkuP 
This sum, however, is more than thrice the sum 
which we have mentioned on the authority of the com- 
mentator of the book of Patafijali, i.e, 150,000 inf ana. 

I hit such is the custom of the copyists and scribes in 
every nation, and I cannot; declare the students of the 
Purinas to be free from it, for they are not men of 
exact learning. 


( 2 39 ) 


CHAPTER XXII. 

TRADITIONS RELATING TO THE POLE, 

The pole, in the language of the Hindus, is called iv^ngiu 
dhruea^ and the axis ial&krt. The Hindus, with the jUn, and 
exception of their astronomers, speak always only of slTTa-'u.^ 
om pole, the reason of which is their belief in the dome 
0/ heaven, as we hare heretofore explained. According 
to V&yit-pMT&na, heaven revolves round the pole like a 
potter's wheel, and the pole revolves round itself, with- 
out changing its own place. This revolution is finished 
in 30 ruuktirta, i.e. in one nyehtheini&i'Qn. 

Regarding the south pole, \ have heard from them 
only one story or tradition, viz. the following. They 
had once a king called Soroadatta, who by his noble 
deeds had deserved paradise ; but he did not like the 
idea of his body being torn away from his soul when 
he should depart into the other world. Now he called 
on fh e Risk! Vasishtha, and told to him that he loved 
his body, and did not wish to be separated from it ; but 
the llishi informed him that it was impossible to take 
along with oneself the material body from this world 
into paradise. Thereupon he laid his desire before the 
children of Yasishtha ; however, these spat, in his face, 
scoffed at him, and changed him into a canddfa with 
ear-rings in both ears, and clad in a Jrurtak (i.e, a short 
shirt worn by the women round the shoulders, reaching 
down to the middle of the body). When he came in 
this condition to the Rishi, Yiivamitra, the latter found 
him to be a disgusting spectacle, and asked him what 


240 


ALBERUNFS INDIA. 




&I 5'j.Riln IJ]J 
tlie star 
fiiMiu A 3 j.il- 

I l.:'l 1 1 ’ 4 111 I J lil 

fevui'-slrn-. 

Hn^nina- 

g i 1 1 :■ I., : 1 OfL ] iC 

Stiuni&ra, 


was the reason of his appearing so, whereupon Sorna- 
dattu informed him, and told him the whole story. 
Now MsvcLrnitra became very angry on Ida account ; lie 
ordered the Brahmans into his presence in order to per- 
forin a great sacrifice, among those also the children of 
Vadslitha, and lie spoke to them : if 1 wish to make a 
new world, and a new paradise for this pious king, that 
t b ere h e m ay obtai n th e f ul fi 1 m eu 1 0 f h is w ish.” Tlie re - 
upon he began to make the pole and the Great Bear in 
the south, but then India, the ruler, and the spiritual 
beings began to fear him. They went to him, humbled 
themselves before him, and asked him to desist from 
the work he had commenced on this condition, that 
they would carry So mad at ta with his hotl// T just as It 
was, Into paradise* This they did, and in consequence 
the Rishi desisted from making a second world, but 
that which he had already made up to that moment 
remained. 

It is well known that the north pole with us is called 
the Great Bear, the south pole Canopus. But some of 
our people (Muslims) who do not rise above the unedu- 
cated mass, maintain that in the south of heaven too 
there is a Great Bear of the same shape as the northern, 
which revolves round the southern pole. 

Such a thing would not be impossible nor even 
strange* if the report about It- cams from a trust- 
worthy man, who had made long sea- voyages. Cer- 
tainly in southern regions stars are seen which wc do 
not know in our latitudes. So Srip&la says that the 
people of Multan see in summer time a red star a little 
below the meridian of Canopus, which they call Sir.la t 
i.e. the beam of crmi/lmon, and that the Hindus consider 
ib as unlucky. Therefore* when the inoou stands in 
the station Pftr vabhad rapad a, the Hindus do not travel 
towards the south, because this star stands in the 
south. 

Aljaihaui relates, in his Book of Routes, that on the 


CHAPTER XXII. 


241 


island Langabulfis tliere is a large star visible, known 
as th & fever-star* It appears in winter about- morning 
dawn in the east as high as a date-palm tree, haying an 
oblong shape, composed of the tail of the Small Bear 
and his back, and of some small stars situated there ; 
it is called the axe of the mill. Brahmagupta mentions 
it in connection with the Fish. TI10 Hindus toll rather 
ludicrous tales when speaking of the figure in which 
they represent this group of stars, viz. the figure of a 
four-footed aquatic animal, which they call Sakw.ro and 
also I suppose that the latter animal is the 

great lizard, for in Persia it is called Suswi&r t which 
sounds much like the Indian Simm&w* Of this kind 
of animals there is also an aquatic species, similar to 
the crocodile and the skink. One of those tales is the 
following. 

When Brahman wanted to create mankind, he divided rua story 0 1 
himself into two halves, of which the right one was 
called Virdf the left one Maim. The latter one is the 
being from whom the period of time called Mmtixmlara 
has received its name. Maim had two sons, Priyayrata 
and Uttanapuda, the bow-legged king. The latter had 
a son called Jjkruva, who was slighted by one of the 
wives of his father. On account of this, he was pre- 
sented with the power to turn round all the stars as he 
pleased. He appeared in the Man van tarn of ftvayam- 
bhuva, the first of all Manvantaras, and he has for ever 
remained in his place. 

The Vmju-Furd/m says: “The wind drives the stars 
round the pole, which are bound to it by ties invisible to 
m an h Th ey m 0 ye round 1 ik e the beam in th e ol iv e-pr ess, 
for its bottom is, as.it were, standing still, whilst its end 
is moving round. 

The Vishnu-Dhrtrma says : “ Vajra, one of the children 
of Balabhad ra, the brother of Narayana, asked the Bishi 
Mfirkandeya as to the pole, upon which he answered: 

When God created the world, it was dark and desert, 

Q 


ALBERUNFS INDIA. 


343 

Thereupon he made the gl$be of the sun sinning, and 
the globes of the stars watery , receiving the light of 
the sun from that side of Ms which he turns towards 
them. Fourteen of these stars he placed round the 
pole in the shape of a sismndra, which drive the other 
stars round the pole- One of them, north of the pole, 
on the uppermost chin, is ITtt&ttapSda* on the lowest 
chin Yajna, cm the head Oh arm a, on the breast Nara- 
yana, on the two hands towards the east the two stars 
AsvLni the phy sicians, on the two feet Yarn inn and 
Ary&man tow aids the west, on the penis Samwatsara, 
on the back Mitra. on the tail Agnh Mahendra, Marici, 
and Kasyapa/' 

The pole itself is Vishnu, the ruler of the inhabitants 
of paradise; he is, further, the time rising, growing, 
getting old, and vanishing. 

Further, the Vuh^u-Dhm'ma says; <( Jf a man reads 
this and knows it accurately, God pardons to him the 
sins of that day, and fourteen years will be added to 
his life, the length of which has been fixed before- 
hand/ 1. 

How simple those people are! Among us there are 
scholars who know between 1020 to 1030 stars. Should 
those men breathe and receive life from Cod only on 
account of their knowledge of stars ? 

All the scars revolve, whatever may bo the position 
of the pole with regard to them- 

If I had found a Hindu able to point out to me with 
his finger the single stars, T should have been able to 
identify them with the star-figures known among Greeks 
and Arabs, or with stars in the neighbourhood in case 
they did not belong to any of these figures- 


( ^43 ) 


Oil AFTER XXIII. 

ON MOUNT UmU ACCOTIDING TO TIIE BELIEF OF THE 
AUTHOltt OF THE P OK AN AS AND OF OTHERS. 

We begin with the description of this mountain. since 
it is the centre of tin:? Dvipas and seas, and, at the same 
ti me, t h e cen t re of -Tam b fid v i pa. Brah m ag u pt a say s : 

Manifold are the opinions of people relating to the 
description of the earth and to Mount Meru, particu- 
larly among those who study the Pimbias and the reli- 
gions 1 iteratu r6, S om e descri be tins mon nt ai n as r j si ng 
above the surface of the earth to an excessive height. 
It is situated under the pole, and the stars revolve 
round its foot, so that rising and setting depends upon 
Mem, It Is culled Merit because of its having the 
faculty of doing this, and because it depends alone 
upon the influence of its head that sun and moon 
become visible* The day of the angels who inhabit 
Mern lasts sit months, and their night also six 
months.” 

Brahmagupta quotes the following passage from the 
book of Jin a y i,e. Buddha: “ Mount Mem is quad- 
rangular, not round.” 

The commentator Ralabhadrn Rays: “Some people 
say that the earth is flat, and that Mount Mem is an 
ilium in a tin g. ligh t-gi v Ing bod y . 1 1 o w eve r t if s ucl i w ere 

the case, the planets would not revolve round the 
horizon of the inhabitants of Mem, and if it were 
shining it would be visible because of its height, as the 


Fli'fclmjrt- 
pupta 
the earth, 
rind Mount 
Mem. 


JifU alll ifidlM, 
OH tli 5 Kthivit 

snbjtjot, 


244 


A LB ERL! NTS INDIA. 


is. 


The author 

critfuiaaB 

BalabtLadra, 


Tho state- 
ments of 
X ryabhai x 
axanuned 
fry tlio 
author. 


polo above it ig visible. According to some, Morn con- 
sists of gold ; according to others it consists of jewels. 
Aryabhata thinks that it has not absolute height, but 
only the height of ont yqjm irt, and that it is round, not 
quadrangular, the realm of the angels; that, it is in- 
visible, although shining, because it is very distant from 
the inhabited earth, being .situated entirely in the high 
north, in the cold zone, in the centre of a desert called 
Nttndiinn.-v<mi %. However, if it were of a great height, 
it would not be possible on the 66th degree of latitude 
for the whole Tropic of Cancer to be visible, and for the 
sun to revolve on it, being always visible without ever 
disappearing,” 

All that Balabhadra produces is foolish both in words 
and matter, and I cannot find why he fell himself called 
upon to write a commentary if he had nothing better 
to say. 

If he tries to refute the theory of the flatness of the 
earth by the planets revolving round the horizon of 
Meru, this argument would go nearer proving the 
theory than refuting it. For if the earth were a flat 
expanse, and everything high 
on earth were parallel to the 
perpendicular height of Menu 
there would be no change of 
horizon, and the same horizon 
would be the equinox for all 
! places on earth. 

Oji the words of Aryabhata 
as quoted by Balabhadra we 
make the following remarks. 

Let A B be the globe of the earth round the centre 
H. further, A is a place on the earth in the 66th de- 
gree of latitude. We cut, off from the circle the arc 
A. B, equal to the greatest declination. Then IS is the 
place in the zenith of which the pole stands. 

Further, we draw’ the line A C touching the globe in 


X'B 


CHAPTER XXII 1 . 245 

the point A. This line lies in the plane of the horizon 
as far as the human eye reaches round the earth* 

We join the points A and H with each other* 
and draw the line R E 0 , so that it is met in C by 
the line A C. Further, we let fall the perpendicular 
A T on H 0 , Now, it is evident that — 

A T is tlic si tin of the greatest domination - 

T fs tho verswl sine of f.bo greatest docl 3 nation ; 

T H the sine of the complement of the greatest dechnatidn. 

And as we here occupy ourselves with Aryabhata, 
we shall, according to his system, change the sines in 
Jm " dajd i. A coord i ugly — ■ 

A T = 3 - 397 - 
T II = 3140, 

ET= 398* 

Because the angle II A C is a right angle, we have 
the equation— 

H T : T A = T A 1 T C. 

And the square of A T is T.95 1*600. If we divide it 
by T H. we get as quotient 622 . 

The difference between this number and T 1 ! is 324, 
which is jj C. And the relation of B 0 to B H, the latter 
being sinus loins = 3438, is the same a s the relation of 
t h 0 n n m her 0 f yoja nas of 11 G to t h e yojanas of li H , The 
latter number is, according to Aryabhata, 800. If it 
is mnl ti plied by the just-mentioned difference of 324 
we get tho sum of 239,200. And if we divide this 
number by the sinus totvs we get 75 as quotient, which 
is the number of y&janas of E C, equal to 600 miles or 
200 farmkh. 

If the perpendicular of a mountain is 200 farsakh, 
the ascent will be- nearly the double. Whether Mount 
Mem has such a height or not, nothing of it can be 
visible in the 66th degree of latitude, and it would not 
cover anything 1 of the Tropic of Cancer at all (so as to 
intercept from it the light of the sun). And if for those 


ALBERUNPS INDIA. 


246 

latitudes (66° and 3 3 : J ) Mem is under the horizon, it 
is also under the horizon for all places of less latitude. 
If you compare Mern with a luminous body like the sun, 
you know that the sun sets and disappears under the 
earth. Indeed Mem may be compared with the earth, 
*■*£*“* It is not invisible to us because of it.R being far away 
in the cold zone, but because it lies below the horizon, 
because the earth is a globe, and everything heavy Eh 
attracted towards its centre. 

Aryabhata further tries to prove that Mount Mem 
has only a moderate height by the fact that the Tropic 
of Cancer is visible in places the latitude of which is 
equal to the complement of the greatest declination. 
We must remark that this argument is not valid, for we 
know the conditions of the lines of latitude and other 
lines in those countries only through ratiocination, not 
from eyesight nor from tradition, because they are unin- 
habited and their roads are impassable. 

If a man lias come from those parts to Aryabhata and 
told him that the Tropic of Cancer is visible in that lati- 
tude, we may meet this by stating that a man has also 
come to -us from the same region telling us that one 
part of it is there invisible. The only thing which 
covers the Tropic of Cancer is this mountain Mem. If 
Mern did not exist, the whole tropic would be visible. 
Who, now, has been able to make out which of the 
two reports deserves most credit ? 

I11 the book of Aryabhata of Kusumapura we read 
that the mountain item is in HImavant, the cold Kone, 
not h iglie r th an a y oj* 1 u a. In the trat 1 slati on , h 0 w ever, 
it has been rendered so as to express that it is not higher 
than Himava&t by more than a yojana. 

This author is not identical with the elder Arya- 
bhata, but he belongs to his followers, for he quotes 
him and follows his example. I do not know which of 
these two namesakes is meant by Balabhadra, 

In general, what we know of the conditions of the 


CHAPTER XXIIL 24 7 

place of this mountain we know only by ratiocination. 
About the mountain itself they have many traditions. 
Rome give it the height of one yojana, others more ; 
some consider it as quadrangular, others as an octagon. 
We shall now lay before the reader what the Kish is 
teach, regarding this mountain, 

The Malaya- Pur&im says : ff It is golden and shining 
like fire which is not dulled by smoke. It has four 
di Here ut colours on its four sides. The colour of the 
eastern side is white like the colour of the Brahmins, 
that of the northern is red like that of the Kshatriya, 
that of the southern is yellow like the colour of the 
Vaisya, and that of the western is black like the colour 
of the Siidra. It is 86 ,gQg yojana high, and 16, ooo of 
these yojana lie within the earth. Each of its four sides 
has 34,00a ytrjana. There are rivers of sweet water 
running in it, and beautiful golden houses inhabited 
by the spiritual beings, the Deva, by their singers the 
Gandharva. and their harlots the Apsaras. Also Asuras, 
Daityas, and KCUcsbasas are living in it. Round the 
mountain lies the pond Mftnasa, and around it. to all 
four sides are the Lokapdiit, i.e. the guardians of the 
world and its inhabitants. Mount Mem has seven 
knots t great mountains, the names of which are 

M&hendra, Malaya, Salty a, Suktibam (?), Riksfaablm (?), 
Vindhya, Pariy&fcra. The small mountains are nearly 
Innumerable; they are those which arc inhabited by 
mankind* 

1:1 The great mountains round Merit are the follow- 
ing: HimawiM, always covered with snow, inhabited 
by the R&kshasa, Pisfica, and Yak ah a. Ifemuhiihi, 
the golden, inhabited by the Gandharva and Apsaras, 
Ms-hadha, inhabited by the X iiga or snakes, which have 
the following seven princes: Anauta, Vasnki 3 Tak- 
shaka, Karkotaka, Mabapadma, Kambala, Asvutava. 
iWa, peacock-like, of many colours, inhabited by the 
Siddha and Brahmarshi, the anchorites The mountain 


Matron - 
Fui-fttifi 
031 Jrfijunt 
Morn atid 
the mouji- 
taLiia of 
thii earth. 


I ?4 


ALBERUNPS INDIA. 


from the 
VWi'mt, 
yttpw j Jiti-d 
Adttgn 
jPtef'o# ftj. 


The m- 
meuUtf i>r of 
PuUiftJfill 
on rlifi yjWifl 
subject. 


24S 

&mtn t inhabited by the Daifcya and Danava* The 
mountain $ringavan£ t inhabited by the Fitnras, the 
fathers and grandfathers of the Deva. Nat far to the 
north of this mountain there are mountain -p as a es full 
of jewels and of trees which remain during a whole 
kalpa. And in the centre of these mountains is 
Ilavrita, the highest of all. The whole is called 
Pu ru sk&ypa/rvat a. The region between the Himavant 
and the Srifigavant is called Kailasa, the play-ground of 
the Rakghasa and ApsarasT 

Th e Vi&knu- Ih u m dna says : “ Th e g r ea t m 01m tains 0 f 
the middle earth are Brbparvata, Malaya-parvata, Mal- 
y ay ant, Vindhya, Trikuta, Tripnruntika, and Kaikba. 
Their in habit ants drink the water of the rivers, and live 
in eternal bliss. 

The V&yu-Pur&na contains similar statements about 
the four sides and the height of Mem as the hitherto 
quoted Pura.nas* Besides, it says that on each side of it 
there is a quadrangular mountain, in the east the Mixl- 
yavant, in the north Anila, in the west the G and ham a- 
dana, and in the south the Nishadha. 

The Adityu-1 hi rdna gives the same statement about 
the size of each of its four sides which we have quoted 
from the Matsya-Ihirdna t but I have not found in it a 
state me nt ubn ut t\ xe h e i ght of Me r u , A c co 1 *t 1 111 g to tl 1 is 
Ftirana, its east side is of gold, the west of silver, the 
south of rubies, the north of different jewels. 

The extravagant notions of the dimensions of Mem 
would be impossible if they had not the same extrava- 
gant notions regarding the earth, and if there is no 
limit fixed to guesswork, guesswork may without any 
hindrance develop into lying. For instance, the com- 
mentator of the book of Pat argali not only makes Meru 
quadrangular, but even oblong. The length of one side 
he fixes at I 5 Ml, i,e. I 50,000,000 f/ojana, whilst he 
fixes the length of the other three sides only at the 
third of this, i>e. 5 kot-L Regarding the four sides of 


CHAPTER XXIII. 


2A9 


Meru, he savs that on the east are the mountain 
Mfi.Li.va and the ocean , and between them the kingdoms 
called B.hadniiva, On the north are Nila, Si'fca, Ariiigl- 
dri, and the ocean, and between them the kingdoms 
Ramyaka, II Iran may a, and Kurin On the west are the 
mountain Gandham&dana and the ocean, and between 
them the kingdom Ketumala, On the so nth are 
Mravarta (?), Nishadha, Hemakfrta, Himugiri, and the 
Ocean, and between them the kingdoms Bli&ratavarsha, 
K i iii pitTu sha, an d II ar i varsl i a. 

This is all I could find of Hindu traditions: regarding 
Mern ; and as I have never found a Buddhistic book, 
and never knew a Buddhist from whom I might have 
learned their theories on this subject, all I relate of 
them I can only relate on the authority of Al&ilinsh&hri, 
though, according to my mind, his report has no claim 
to scientific exactness, nor is it the t%>ort of a man who 
has a scientific knowledge of the subject. According 
to him, the Buddhists believe that Moru lies between 
four worlds in the four cardinal directions- that it is 
square at the bottom and round at. the top ; that it has 
the length of 8o,ooo y&jana, one half of which rises into 
heaven, whilst the other half goes down into the earth. 
That side which is next to our w^orld consists of blue 
sapphires, which is the reason why heaven appears to 
us blue ; the other sides are of rubies, yellow and white 
gems. Thus Mem is the centre of the earth. 

The mountain R&f, as it is called by our common 
people, is with the Hindus the Lokaloka, Thev main- 
tain that the sim revolves from Lokaloka toward s 
Merc, and that he illuminates only its inner northern 
side. 

Similar views are held by the Zoroastdans of Sog- 
diana, viz, that the mountain Ardiva surrounds the 
world ; that outside of it is kk&au similar to the pupil of 
the eye, in which there is something of everything, and 
that behind it there is a vacuum, In the centre of the 


Dtidtfhtatic 
views . 


Pigs 12,5. 


A tradition 
o t i Z. ru 
rutrians of 
Sn^diana. 


A LEE RUN VS INDIA. 


250 

world h the mountain Gimagar^ between onr kkiim 
and the six other K\tp&ea, the throne of heaven* Be- 
tween each two there i> burning sand, on which no 
foot could stand* The sphere® revolve in the dimaia 
like mills, but In ours they revolve in an inclined course* 
because our clim.a, that one inhabited by mankind, is 
the uppermost. 


( 25 ‘ ) 


CHAPTER XXIV. 


TRADITIONS OF TIE ft PITH ANAS REGARDING EACH OF THE 
SEVEN DVtPAS. 


We must ask the reader not to take- auv offence iC lie 

*■ 

finds all the words and meanings which occur in the 
present chapter to be totally different from anything 
corresponding in Arabic. As for the difference of words, 
it is easily accounted for by the difference of languages 
in general; and as regards the difference of the meanings , 
we mention them only either in order to draw attention 
to an idea which might seem acceptable even to a 
Muslim* or to point out the irrational nature of a thing 
which has no foundation in itself. 

We have already spoken of the central Dvipa when 
describing the environs of the mountain in its centre. 
It is called Jaxnbft- Dvipa, from a tree growing in it, the 
branches of which extend over a space of too yojamt. 
In a later chapter, devoted to the description of the 
inhabitable world and its division, we shall finish the 
description of Jambn-Dvlpa, Next, however, w r e shall 
describe the other Dvipas which surround it, following, 
as regards the order of the names, the authority of 
M vrdn a t for the above-mentioned reason (v + p. 
236), But before entering into this subject we shall 
here insert a tradition of the Vdf/u-F( ( r a tj a regarding 
the central Dvipa (JamM-Dvipa). 

According to this source, fl there are two kinds of 
inhabitants in Madhyadela, First the Kitfipumska, 
Their men are known as the gold-coloured ones, their 
women as suremt* They live a long life without ever 


De&ftrititlou 
fhf tins Ovtpiift 
iLijtjni'iiiiiH 1 1 

tllU jlfri , 1 HlV.'l 

mi -i Vi i?t ;-j u 
Ptlrnrtfilt' 


1. JiinibiF 
Dvipa. 


TIi-b iiiluiii;- 

TfrllCft nf 
Hiuitiy;... 

ci^ein^ tii 
VAif-n- Pv ,‘- 
&na> 


ALBERUNFS INDIA* 


?, fek s- 

DvtiJft, 


Fa^a 126. 


The Btru'y o( 
Kftdrfl. mnL 
Vi Hah A. 
flumes- libe- 
rates ills 
mother hy 
matfift of the 
AHlfLttt. 


252 

being ill. They never commit a sin, and do not. know 
envy. Their food is a juice which they express from 
the dates of the palm trees, called madya (?)* The 
second kind are the IItrrqmrusJia i having the colour 
of silver. They live tt,qoo years, are beardless, and 
their food is sugar-cane,” Since they are described as 
beardless arid silver-coloured, one might be inclined to 
take them for Tu rks ; but the fact of their eating dates 
and sugar-cane compels ns to see in them a more south- 
ern nation. Bnt where do we find people of the colour 
of gold or silver ? We know only of the colour of burnt 
silver, which occurs, zm. among the Zanf, who lead a 
life without sorrow' and envy, as they do not. possess 
anything which gives birth to those passions. They 
live no doubt longer than we t but only a little longer, 
and by no means twice as long. The Zanj are so un- 
civilised that they have no notion of a natural death. 
If a man dies a natural death, they think he was 
poisoned. Every death is suspicions with them, if a 
man has not. been killed by a weapon* Likewise it is 
regarded with suspicion by them, if a man is touched 
by the breath of a consumptive person. 

We shat 1 now des cri be Sabi -Ik U ? a, It has, acc or di n g 
to the Maism-Pur&na, seven great rivers, one of which 
equate the Langes in parity. In the first ocean there 
are seven mountains adorned with jewels, some of which 
are inhabited by Hevas, others by demons. One of them 
is a golden, lofty mountain, whence the clouds rise 
which bring us the rain. Another contains all the 
medicines, Indra, the ruler, takes from it the rain. 
Another one is called Bom a. Regarding this mountain 
they relate the following story : — 

Kasyapa had two wives, KacJru, the mother of the 
snakes, and Yinata, the mother of the birds. Both 
lived in a plain where there was a grey horse. How- 
ever, the mother of the snakes maintained that the 
horse was brown. Now they made the covenant that 


CHAPTER XXIV. 


■253 


slie who was wrong should "become the slave of the 
other, hut they postponed the decision till the follow- 
ing day* In the following night the mother of the 
snakes sent her black children to the horse, to wind 
themselves round it and to conceal its colour. In con- 
sequence the mother of the birds became her slave for 
a time* 

The latter, Vinahq had two children, Anuru, the 
guardian of the tower of the sun, which is drawn by 
th e horses, and G am d a , r J ’h e latter spo ke to his m othe r : 
i: Demand from the- children nourished at your breast 
what may restore you to liberty/' This she did. 
People also spoke to her of the ambrosia (amrita), 
which is with the Devas. Thereupon Gam da hew to 
the Dev as and demanded it from them, and they ful- 
filled his wish. For Amrita is one of those things 
peculiar to them,, and if somebody else gets it, he lives 
as long as the Devas. He humbled himself before them 
in order to obtain the Ararita, for the purpose of freeing 
therewith his mother jS at the same time promising to 
bring it back afterwards. They had pity upon him, 
and gave it him. Thereupon Gar u da went to the 
mountain Soma, in which the Devas were living. 
Gar ad a gave the Amrita to the Devas, and thereby 
freed his mother. Then he spoke to them : “ Do not 
come near the Amrita unless you have before bathed 
in the river Ganges/ 1 This they did, arid left the 
Amrita where it was, Meanwhile Guru da brought it 
back to the Devas, and obtained thereby a high rank 
lti sanctity, so that he became the king of a LI the birds 
and the riding-bird of Vishnu. 

The inhabitants of Saka^Dvlpa are pious, long-lived 
beings, who can dispense with the rule of kings, since 
they do not know envy nor ambition. Their lifetime, 
not capable of any change, is as long as a Tretayuga. 
The four colours are among them, i.e, the different 
castes, which do not intermarry nor mix with each other. 


*54 


A LBBRUNTS INDIA, 


3. KwfcL' 
Dvipri. 


J . KrauftLti- 
>Vipn. 


T h ;^:c ] 


6 , 

v^ha. 


They live in eternal joy, without ever being sorry. 
According to Vislmu-FurflMa, the names of their castes 
are Ary aka, Knrura, Viviriitk (Vivaift£a)i and B bavin (?), 
and they worship V&sudeva. 

The third Dvipa is Kuia-Dvipn. According to the 
Maimja-P%rdna it has seven mountains containing 
jewels, fruit, flowers, odoriferous plants, and cereals* 
One of them, named Dr on a, contains famous medicines 
or drugs, particularly the vikdyakitraya, which heals 
every wound instantaneously, and mfitmavijti'an f which 
restores the dead to life. Another one, called hart'., is 
similar to a black cloud. On this mountain there is a 
fire called Mahisha. which has come out- of the water, 
arid will, remain there till the destruction of the world 
it is this very fire which will burn the world. Ku^a- 
I)vipa has seven kingdoms and innumerable rivers 
flowing to the sea, which are then changed by Indra 
into rain. To the greatest rivers belong Jaumt (Ya- 
muna), which purifies from all sins. About the in- 
habitants of this Dvipa, Matsya-Purdna does not. give 
any information. According to Vishnu- Pwrdna the 
inhabitants are pious, sinless people, every one of them 
living 10,000 years. They worship and 

the names of their castes are Dainin, Bushmin, Sneha, 
and Mandeha. 

The fourth, or Kranhca-Dvipa, has, according to the 
Maisya-Purdna^ mountains containing jewels, rivers 
which are branches of the Ganges, and kingdoms the 
people of which have a white colour and are pious and 
pure. According to Vislmu-Furdna the people there 
live in one and the same place without any distinction 
among members of the community, but afterwards it 
says that the names of their castes are Pushkara, 
Piishkala, Dhaiiya, and Tishya (?). They Worship 
Jan hr dan a. 

The fifth, or Salmala-Dvipa, has, according to the 
Mc&sy a- Pm-k- na , mountains and rivers, its inhabitants 


CHAPTER XXIV + 255 

are pure, long-lived, mild, and never angry. They 
never suffer from drought or dearth, for their food 
comes to them simply in answer to their wishes, with- 
out their sowing or toiling. They come into exist- 
ence without being born ; they are never ill nor sorry* 
They do not require the rule of kings, since they do not 
know the desire for property. They live contented and 
in safety ; they always prefer that which is good and 
love virtue. The climate of tills Dvipa never alters in 
cold or heat, so they are not bound to protect them- 
selves against either. They have no rain, but the 
water bubbles up for them out of the earth and drops 
down from the mountains. This is also the case in 
the following Dvipas. The inhabitants are of one kind, 
without any distinction of caste* Every one Jives 3000 
years. 

According to the Vishim-Purdnn they have beauti- 
ful faces and worship BkayavaL They bring offerings 
to the fire, and every one of them lives 10, ora years. 
The names of their castes are Kapil a, A run a. Pita, 
and Krishna* 

The sixth, or Gomeda-Dvipa, has x according to the 
Mals/fti-l *urdp a , two great mountains, the deep- black 
8 -uutitnas, which encompasses the greatest part of the 
Dvipa, and the Kumuda i of golden colour and very 
lofty; the latter one contains all medicines. This 
Dvipa has two kingdoms. 

According to Vishnu- Purdna the inhabitants arc 
pious and without sin and worship Vishnu. The 
names of their castes are- Mriga* Mflgadlin, Manasa, and 
ATandaga, The climate of this Dvipa is so healthy and 
pleasant that the inhabitants of paradise now and then 
visit it on account of the f ragrancy of its air. 

The seventh, or Pushkara- Dvipa, has, according to 
the Matsm- Pur a mi, in its eastern part the mountain 
Ciinxsdkl, i.e, having a variegated roof with horns of 
jewels. Jts height is 34,00a yojana^ and its oircum- 


6. Ci'inujdjL- 
Ov-tpa, 


Z 4 


7. Pijahkfti fL- 
b^ljuL. 


ALBERUNTS INDIA, 


256 

fere nee. 25,000 yojantt. In the west, lies the mountain 
Manasa, shining like the full moon ; its height is 
35.000 yojana. This mountain has a son who protects 
his father against, the west. In the east of this Dvjpa 
are two kingdoms where every inhabitant lives 10,000 
years, The water bubbles up for them out of the 
earth, and drops down from the mountains. They 
have no rain and no flowing river; they know neither 
summer nor winter. They are of one kind, without 
any distinction of caste- They never suffer from 
dearth, and do not get old. Everything they wish for 
comes to them, whilst they live quiet and happy with- 
out knowing anything else but virtue. It is as it they 
were in the suburb of paradise. All bliss is given to 
them; they live long and are without ambition. So 
there is no service, no rule, no sin, no envy, no oppo- 
sition;, no debating, no toiling in agriculture and dili- 
gence iu trading. 

According to the Wjshnu - Purd n a t Pushkara-Dvipa is 
so called from a largo tree, which is also called nya- 
grodha, Under this tree is Bmhma-rikpa, To the figure 
of B rah man. worshipped by the Dev a and Dan avm 
The inhabitants are equal among each other, not claim- 
ing any superiority, whether they be human beiugs or 
beings associating with the Dev as. In this Dvipa 
there is only a single mountain, called Mdn^otlama, 
winch rises in a round form on the round Dvipa. From 
its top ad the other Dvipas are visible, for its height 
is 50,000 yajmia* and the breadth the same. 


C 257 ) 


CHAPTER XXV. 

ON TTIE RIVERS OF INDIA. THEIR SOURCES AND COURSES* 

The V&yu-Furdrtrt enumerates the rivers rising in the 
we! i-knowu mountains which we have mentioned 
as the knots of Mount Mem (ride p, 247), To facili- 
tate the study we exhibit them in the following table : — 


Tha Urcat Knots, 

Names Of rite Rivers wJiJuli me in Item in 

Muh&ndra . j 

Etishikulyj^ Iksbubi, Tripavjl {?), 
AyanA (?), LliigAluil, Vam^avara, 

Malaya , - j 

KritamAlA* Tam r.i varna > Fu&hpajfiti, Utpala- 
vati (!}. 

Bahya * . j 

Gfxtfwan'r Bhfmarathf t Krishna, YairiyA, Sa- 
valijnlAj Tui'igabliadrii , Buprayogft, Pi'tjaya ( ? ) . 

Ii ii veri , 

Bukti . ■ j 

IJtahika, UAlflka (!), KumArb Man flav?i hint r 
Kirpa ( L) n P&Mnt. 

Rikfiba , ./ 

Sona,. HaMnada, NarmadA, Surasa, Kiiva P]i 
Man da k i r | i\ Dsnh ni A r Uilrak Ala , Tan ;a sa, 
Pipyala, Sr obi : iCariimodn (2), hip^bika ('?), 
(pitiapila, Banjul^ DdluyAhint, 

Suktinjull, ShakninA(t), Tridivfi. 

Vindbya . j 

Tapi, Psyo&liii!* Nirbindfiya, Sin* {'hr Kisb- 
adhih V Anvii, Vajtaraitj, Sim, H llm {[)■ 
Kuamidvalt, Tabu, Mahfigaurl, DurgA, 

A ntaAi 3 a. 

PAriyAtra . f 

Veda&mriti, Vfcdavati. Vritrasibrn {?) RamAaS, 
Na ink-in A, SaddAnfi. (?), Kiimatii ('?), iWb 
U&rmaiwati, Lfipa £/?), YidisA* 

VOL* 1* 

R 


12 - 3 , 

Qi 1 r>t«tion 

I l'i Mil ViSffit. 
Purdnch 


ALBERUNPS INDIA, 


258 

T he rivers of The Matoi/a- Pur&na and V dyu-Rur&oa men Lion the 
rivers flowing in Janribfi-Dvipa, and say that they rise 
lwyaaudtta' in the mountains of Himavantp In the following table 
Kst'S we Bimply enumerate them, without following any 
particular principle of arrangement. The reader must 
imagine that the mountains form the boundaries of 
India. The northern mountains are the snowy llima- 
vant. In their centre lies Kashmir, and they are con- 
nected with the country of the Turks. This mountain 
region becomes colder and colder till the end of the 
inhabitable world and Mount Menu Because this 
i 29. r ei 0 on tai n 1 1 as its ch 1 ef exte use on in 1 on gi t ud e , the ri v ers 

rising on its north side flow through the countries of the 
T u lk s , Til jet an c, Kb assars, a n d SSI a von fan s, and fal 1 in to t.I » e 
Hea of J iirjan (the Caspian Sea), or the sea of Khwarizm 
(the Aral Sea) r or the Sea Pont us (the Black Sea), or 1 ho 
northern Sea of the Slavonians (the Baltic) 1 whilst the 
rivers rising on the southern slopes flow through India 
and fall into the great ocean, some reaching it single, 
oth er 5 com bin ed . 

rv'^r.,i The rivers of India come either from the cold moun- 

Uirl]:!. b 

tains in the north or from the eastern mountains, both 
of which in reality form one and the same chain, ex- 
tending towards the east, and then turning towards the 
south until they reach the great ocean, where parts of 
it penetrate into the sea at the place called tlie Dike of 
Ram#, Of course, these mountains differ very much 
in cold and heat. 

We exhibit the names of the rivers in the following 
table : — 


CHAPTER XXV. 259 


tfitidli or 
the river 
of Vaihci*nd. 

Biyutta 
or Juilaiu, 

CcmdAkbhjLg'A 

or 

CftDdttliq. 

Bi y &1ill 
to the west 
of Lahore. 

1 L'Avatl to 
ttifj east of 
Lahore* 

S'ntarHd m 

oj- 

Shataldafr 

Stoafcf 

through 
the countr}' 
Snrtiiiit, 

Jaui]. 

G-nAga. 

SnrjLyll 
or S»rw:L, 

Devito 

Kuhft. 

GomaiL 

DhutapApA, 

YLsAlii.. 

Bfthttda- 

«® i ! i- 

Kcui&kL 

Ni&jjrA. 

GiuiflukL 

LuhitfcL 

Dri&hadvati. 

TtiTJl I'Ei. 
AiuniL 

P&mfisiL 

V eii-AHmri l i. 

’Vtaftrfn.t 

CandeujjL 

K&waifiA, 

Par A. 

Cj rmfinvsLti. 

YuliajL 

Vennmatt 

S'ipra, rise# 
in the 
F&Hjjffttrft 

iitlll pHF.WFI 

U jam , 

K uratoylV 

^hmahina. 




In the mountains bordering on the kingdom of Kayu- smdb ri^or, 
bisli, i.e. K fibi.it rises it river which is called Oh orv-tmd, p wi,io. 
011 account of its many branches. It is joined by 
several affluents ; — 

t. The river of the pass of Ghflssak. 

2. The river of the gorge of Panohir, below the town 
of Parwiin, 

3, 4. The river Shurvat and the river Bawa, which 
latter hows through the town of Lanbaga, i.e* Lainghfin ; 
they join the Ghorvand at the fortress of Driifa, 

5, 6. The rivers Nur and KfiriL 

Bwelled by these affluents, the Ghorvand is a great 
ri v er op psosi te th e to wn of Pu r sh aval be i n g th ere cal le d 
Ike ford, from a ford near the village of Mahauara, on 
the eastern banks of the river, and it falls into the river 
Sindh near the castle of Bitur, below the capital of 
A 1 k an d ah fir ( li ar 3 dli ura), L e. Vaih a n d . 

The river Biyatta, known as Jail am, from the city of 


A L BER UN PS INDIA . 


RjftrfH L>f 

the Purjftb. 


K ran Ian 
tradition. 


260 

this name on its western banks, and tbe river Canda- 
raha join each other nearly fifty miles above Jabravar, 
and pass along west of Multan. 

The river Bi vuh flows east of M nltftiy and joins after- 
wards the iflyatta and Candaraha. 

The river Irava is joined by tbe river Kay which rises 
in _\agarkot in the mountains of Jihatub Thereupon 
follows as the fifth the river Shatladar (Satlej)* 

After these live rivers have united below Multan 
at a place called l\tneajiada y inu the meeting-place of 
the five rivers, they form an enormous watercourse. 
Tn flood- times It sometimes swelfs to such a degree 
as to cover nearly a space of ten farsahh, and to rise- 
above the tree of the plains, so that afterwards the 
rubbish carried by the floods is found in their highest 
branches like birds- nests. 

The Muslims call the river, after it has passed the 
Sihdhi city Aror, as a united stream, the river of 
Mihrdn, Thus it extends, flowing straight on, be- 
coming broader and broader, and gaining in purity of 
water, enclosing in its course places like islands, until 
it reaches Aim an fur a, situated between several of its 
arms, and flows into the ocean at two places, near the 
city Lohariui, and more eastward in the province of 
Kacch at a place called Sindtm-mjdra^ he. the Sindh 

Sm. 

As the name Union of the five rivers occurs in this 
part of the world (in Panjab), we observe that a similar 
name is used also to the north of the above-mentioned 
mountain chains, for the rivers which flow thence 
towards tbe north . after having united near Tirmidh 
and having formed the river of Balkh, are called the 
■un ion of th e se. ve ? t rivers, Th 0 Zor oas t rian s of B ogd tan a 
have confounded these two things ; for they say that 
tbe whole of the seven rivers is Sindh, and its upper 
course Baridtsh. A man descending on it sees the 
sinking of the sun on his right side if he turns his 


CHAPTER XXV. z6t 

face towards the west, as we see it here on our left 
side (*:eV). 

The river Sarsati falls into the sea at. the distance of 
a bowshot east of Somanath. 

The river Jann joins the Ganges below Kan 03. which 
lies west of it. The united stream falls into the groat, 
ocean near GabgiMgara. 

Between the mouths of the rivers Sarsati and Ganges 
is the mouth of the river Narmada, which descends 
from the eastern mountains, takes its course in a south- 
western direction, and fails into the sea near the town 
Bahroj, nearly sixty yojana east of Soinanufcb. 

Behind the Ganges tiow the rivers Eahab and Ka- 
wirt], which join the river Sarwa near the city of Bari. 

The Hindus believe that the Ganges in ancient times 
Hawed in Paradise, and we shall relate at a subsequent 
opportunity how it happened to come down upon 
earth. 

The Mcdsya-Pnf&na says: “ After the Ganges had 
settled on earth, it. divided itself into seven arms, the 
middle of which is the main stream, known as the 
Gauges. Three flowed eastward, Nalini, IMdini, 
and P&vani, and three westward, SM, Cakshu, and 
Sindh □. 

The river Sit a rises in the Himavant, and flows 
through these countries : Salila, Karst-nba, (Jin a, Var- 
vara, Tavap.a (?), Bah a, Pusdikara, Km lata, Maiigahi, 
K a vara, and Sangavanta (?) ; then it falls into the 
western ocean. 

South of Sit a hows the river OahsTmg, which irrigates 
the countries Cina, Mam, Kiilika (?), Dlrfilika (?)/Fuk- 
bara, Barbara, Kka (?), Palhava, and Bar wanes t. 

The river Sindh Rows through the countries Sindhu, 
Darada, Zindutunda (?}, GSndliura, Kurasa (?) f Krnra (?), 
Sivapaura, Indramaru. Sabati (?), Saindiiava, Kubata, 
Bahl mar vara, Star a, Mnina. and Sukurdar 

The river Ganges, which is the middle anti main 


Various 
ri TcrB- oi 
hijdiii. 


Quotation 

fmm 

Mat&ya- 

Fur&tia. 

131 . 


2&Z 


ALBERUNPS INDIA 


Fisfe^m- 


stream, flows t lire ugh the Gandharva, the musicians, 
Kilim ar a, Yaksbas, Bukshaea, Tidyftdhara, Uraga f i.r. 
those who creep on their breasts, the serpents, Kalapa- 
grama, i*e. the city of the Most virtuous, Kimpurusha. 
Khasa (?), the mountaineers, Iviratu, PuUnda, the 
hunters in the plains, robbers, Kuril, Bharala, Pah cilia, 
Kan sb aka (?), Mfitsya, Magadha, Brahmottara, and 
Tamalipta* These are the good and bad beings 
through whose territories the Ganges flows. After- 
wards it enters into branches of the mountain Yin- 
dhya, whore the elephants live, and then it falls into 
the southern ocean. 

Of the eastern Ganges arms, the II radio! flows through 
the countries Nish aba, Upakuna, Din vara, Prishaka, 
X 1 lami i kha ? K i k ara, U sh traka r n a . i . t\ p eo p le w 1 l o se 1 i] )S 
are turned like their ears, Kin it a, I valid ara, Yivarna, i.e. 
the colourless people, so called on account of their intense 
blackness, Kushikana, and Svargabhurni, Le> a country 
like Paradise. Finally it falls into the eastern ocean. 

The river Pavaiii gives water to the Kupatha(?), who 
are far from sin, Tndradymnuasaras, i.e. the cisterns of 
the king Indradynmna, Kharapatha, Ultra, and Sahku- 
path a. It flows t-lirough the steppe Udyanamarflra, 
through the country of the Kusapravarana, and Icidra- 
dvlpa. and afterwards it falls into the salt sea. 

The river Nalinl flows through Tamara, Harhsamfrrga, 
Sarmihuka, and Pilrim, All these are pious people who 
abstain from evil. Then It flows through the midst of 
mountains and passes by the K&mapravarana, Le. people 
whose ears fall down on their shonlderSj Alvamnkha, 
Le. people with horse-faces, Parvatarnam, mountainous 
steppes, and Itfimimandala. Pin ally it flows into the 
ocean. 

The Vishyu-Fardya mentions that the great rivers 
of the middle earth which flow into the ocean are 
Anutapata, Shikhi, Dipfipa, Tridiva, Karma, Amrlta. 
and Sukrita. 


C 263 ) 


CHAPTER XXVI. 

ON TUB SHAPE or in AXES' AKD EARTH ACCORDING TO 
THE HINDU ASTRONOMERS- 

T ms and similar questions have received at the hands 
of the Hindus a treatment and solution totally different 
from that which th ey have received am on g n s 31 n slims . 
The sentences of the Koran on these and other subjects 
necessary for man to know are not such as to require a 
si rained interpretation in order to become positive cer- 
tainties in the minds of the hearers, and the same may 
be said regarding the holy codes revealed before the 
Koran. The sentences of the Koran on the subjects 
necessary for man to know are in perfect harmony with 
the other religious codes, and at the same time they are 
perfectly clear, without any ambiguity. Besides, the 
Koran does not contain questions which have for ever 
been subjects of controversy, nor such questions the 
solution of which has always been despaired of, e t g. 
questions similar to certain puzzles of chronology. 

Islam was already In its earliest times exposed to the 
machinations of people who were opposed to it in th© 
bottom of their heart, people who preached Islam with 
sectarian tendencies, and who read to simple-minded 
audiences out of their Koran -copies passages of which 
not a single word was ever created (i.e. revealed) by 
God. But people believed them and copied these 
things cm their authority, beguiled by their hypocrisy ; 
nay, they disregarded the true form of the book which 
they had had until then, because the vulgar mind is 


F&ge 132. 


I'lio KcmUf 
a cerf-uin 
and clear 
basis oT all 
ran enrol]. 


Islam 
foUifieil : 
L By a 

JurirtiAtio 

party, 


U By the 
d U a,l j fits* 


V Q] jcvatia n 
oi the 
Hindus for 
then 1 Eka- 
tranDmers* 


264 A LEBRUN rS INDIA. 

always inclined to any kind of delusion. Thus the 
pure tradition of Islam has been rendered confused by 
this Judaistic party. 

Islam encountered a second mishap at the hands of 
tl 1 e 7 in d 3 k s t th e £ol low ore o f M an i , 1 ilc e Ihn Aim 11 kaff a , 
r Afad-alkarim ibn 'Abi-aTauja^ and others, who, being 
the fathers of criticism, and declaring one thing as jud, 
another as admisAible t &c., raised doubts in weak-minded 
people as to the One and First, ue. the Unique and 
Eternal God, and directed their; sympathies towards 
dualism. At the same time they presented the bio- 
graphy of Man! to the people in such a beautiful garb 
that they were gained over to his side. Now this man 
did not confine himself to the trash of his sectarian 
theology, but also proclaimed his views about, the form 
of the world, as may be seen from hie books, which were 
intended for deliberate deception. 11 is opinions were 
far-spread. Together with the inventions of the above- 
mentioned dadaistic party, they formed a religious 
system which was declared to be the Islam, but with 
which God has nothing whatever to do. Whoso opposes 
it and firmly adheres to the orthodox faith in conformity 
with the Koran is stigmatised by them as an infidel and 
heretic and condemned to death, and they will not 
allow him to hear the word of the Koran, All these 
acts of theirs are more impious than even the words of 
Pharaoh, CC I am your highest lord’* (Sura, 79, 24), 
and iL I do not know of any god for you save my sell:” 
(Sura, 2§ f 38). If party spirit of this kind will go on 
and rule for a long time, we may easily decline from the 
straight path of honour and duty. We, however, take 
our refuge with God, who renders firm the foot of every 
one who seeks Him, and who seeks the truth about 
Him* 

The religious books of the Hindus and their codes 
of tradition, the Pur anas, contain sentences about the 
shape of the world which stand in direct opposition to 


CHAPTER XXVI. 265 

scientific truth as known to their astronomers. By 
these hooks people are guided m fulfilling the rites of 
their religion, and by means of them the great mass of 
the nation have been wheedled into a predilection for 
astronomical calculation and astrological predictions 
an d warn ings . Tb e con eeq 11 cnee is, tl 1 at they sh 0 w m u cli 
affection to their astronomers, declaring that they are 
excellent, men, that it is a good omen to meet them, and 
firmly believing that all of them come into Paradis e and 
none into held For this the astronomers requite them 
by accepting their popular notions as truth, by con- 
forming themselves to them, however far from truth 
most of them may be, and by presenting them with such 
spiritual stuff as they stand in need of. This is the 
reason why the two theories the vulgar and the 
scientific, have become intermingled in the course of 
time, why the doctrines of the astronomers have been 
disturbed and confused, in particular the doctrines of 
those authors — and they are the majority — who simply 
copy their predecessors, who take the bases of their 
science from tradition and do not make them the objects 
of independent scientific research. 

Wo shall now explain the views of Hindu astrono- 
mers regarding the present subject viz. the shape of 
heaven and earth. According to them, heaven as well 
as the whole world is round, and the earth has a 
globular shape, the northern half being dry Jam!, the 
southern half being covered with water. The dimen- 
sion of the earth is larger according to them than it is 
according to the Greeks and modern observations, and 
iu their calculations to find this dimension they have 
entirely given up any mention of the traditional seas 
and Dvipas, and of the enormous sums of f/ojana attri- 
buted to each of them. The astronomers follow the 
theologians in everything which does not encroach upon 
their science, tjj. they adopt the theory of Mount Mem 
being under the north pole, and that of the island 


AibL'i-mn- 
raers Jlit mi 1 
pi .pi ihr 
notions Info 
their 
doctrine. 


Ofiuaol 
oLHe-rF^tinrifi 
on the 
mt nudity 
o£ the earth r 
un Mem 
iLiid Vn(ia. 
vilmiil: ha. 


Pafle 733. 


■quotation 
from the 
SiddfidnUt 
of FnlEsa. 


*66 ALBERUNFS INDIA. 

YadavSmukha lying under the south pole. Now, it is 
entirely irrelevant whether Mem is there or not, as it 
is only required for the explanation of the particular 
mill -like rotation, which is necessitated by the fact that 
to each spot on the plane of the earth corresponds a spot 
in the sky as its zenith. Also the fable of the southern 
island V adaviirmikha does no harm to their science, 
although it is possible, nay, even likely* that each pair of 
quarters of the earth forms a coherent, uninterrupted 
unity, the one as a continent, the other as an ocean 
(and that in reality there is no such island under the 
south pole). Such a disposition of the earth is required 
by the law of gravitation, for according to them the 
earth is in the centre of the universe, and everything 
heavy gravitates towards It. Evidently on account of 
this law of gravitation they consider heaven, too, as 
having a globular shape. 

We shall now exhibit the opinions of the Hindu 
astronomers on this subject according to our translation 
of their works. In case, however* one word or oiher in 
our translation should be used in a meaning different 
from that which it generally has in our sciences, we ask 
the reader to consider only the original meaning of the 
word (not the technical one), for this only is meant. 

Pulisa says in his Siddhdnta: <l Paulisa the Greek 
says somewhere that the earth has a globular shajoe, 
whilst in another place he says that it has the , shape of 
a rover (Le. of a 11 at plane). And in both sentences he 
is right; for the plane or surface of the earth is ravnf 
and its diameter is a straight line. That he. however, 
only believed m the globular shape of the earth, may 
be proved by many passages of his work, lies ides, all 
scholars agree on this head, as Vardhamihlra, Arya- 
bhata, Dev a, Srishena, Vishnu candra, and Brahman. 
If the earth were not round, it would not be girded 
with the latitudes of the different places on earth, day 
and night would not be different in winter and summer. 


CHAPTER XXVI . 267 

and the condition & of the planets and of their rotations 
would he quite different from what they are. 

li The position of the earth is cent rah Half of it is 
clay, half water. Mount Mem is in the dry half, the 
home of the Deva, the angels, and above it is the pole. 
In the other half, which is covered by water, lies Vara- 
va mu kk a, under the south pole, a continent like an 
island, inhabited by the Dai tv a and Nftga, relatives of 
the Deva on Mere. Therefore it is also called Dait- 
yantara. 

fi The line which divides the two earth -halves, the 
dry and the wet. from each other, is called NiraVska, is, 
having no latitude, being identical with our equator. In 
the four cardinal directions with relation to this line 
there are four great cities : — 

Yfttn&kotL, in the east. | Bamaka, in the west. 

Laukft, in the soof.h, | Siddlmpura, in the north. 

£t The earth is fastened on the two poles, and hold by 
the axis. When the sun rises over the line which 
passes both through Mem and Lanka, that moment is 
noon to Yamakoti, midnight to the Greeks, and evening 
to Skldhapura/* 

In the same manner things are represented by Arya- 
bhata, 

Brahmagupta, the son of Jlshnn, a native of Bhilla- 
rniila, says in his Ih rtJm.asiddhd.nl a : “Many are the 
sayings of people about the shape of the earth, specially 
among those who study the Purunas and the religious 
books. Some say that it is level like a mirror, others 
say t hat 1 1 i s hoi 1 0 w like a bow 1 , Oth e r a in ain f ai n th at 
it is level like a mirror, inclosed by a sea, this sea being 
inclosed by an earth, this earth being inclosed by a sea, 
&c. T all of them being round like collars. Each sea 
or earth has the double size of that w hi oft it incloses. 
The outside earth is sixty- four times as largo as the 
central earth, and the sea inclosing the outside earth is 


O' t otation 
tv >]jj tljii 
firakfun* !«'■ 
iihtlnia. of 
ErftlilitiV 
erupia. 


Fogg 


A LEER UNI'S INDIA. 


Quotatioiui 
from various 
aHtioao- 
oum 


2:68 

sixty-four times as large as the sea inclosing the central 
earth. Several circumstances, however, compel ns to 
attribute globular shape both to the earth anil heaven, 
vis. the fact that the stars rise and set in different 
places at different times, so that, e.g. a man in Yamu- 
kotl observes one identical star rising above the western 
horizon, whilst a man in Rlirn at the same time observes 
it rising above the eastern horizon. Another argument 
to the same effect is this, that a man on Mem observes 
one identical star above the horizon in the zenith of 
Lanka, the country of the demons, whilst a man in 
Lari bl, at the same time observes it above his head. 
Besides, all astronomical calc id a lions are not correct 
unless we assume the globular figure of heaven and 
earth. Therefore we must declare that heaven is a 
globe, because we observe in it all the characteristics 
of a globe, aud the observation of these characteristics 
of the world would not be correct unless in reality it 
were a globe. Now, it is evident that all the other 
theories about the world are futile / 11 

Aryabhata inquires into the nature of the world, 
and says that it consists of earth, water, fire, and wind, 
and that each of these elements is round K 

Likewise Yasishlha and Lata say that the five ele- 
ments, viz. earth, water, fire, wind, and heaven, are 
round. 

Vamhamihira says that all things which are per- 
ceived by the senses, are witnesses in favour of the 
globular shape of the earth., and refute the possibility 
of its having another shape. 

Aryabhata, Pulisa, Yasishtha, and Lata agree in this, 
that when it is noon in Yamakoti, it is midnight in 
Rum, beginning of the day in Lanka, and beginning of 
the night in Siddhapura, which is not possible if the 
world is not round* Likewise the periodicity of the 
eclipses can only be explained by the world’s being 
round* 


CHAPTER XX VL 


269 


Lata says ; “ O11 each place of the earth only one-half 
of the globe of heaven is seen. The more northern our 
latitude is, the more Hern and the pole rise above the 
horizon ; as they sink down below the horizon* the more 
southern is our latitude. The equator sinks down from 
the zenith of places, the greater their latitude is both in 
north and south. A man who is north of the equator 
only sees the north pole, whilst the south pole is invi- 
sible to him, and vice t-erna” 

These are the words of Hindu astronomers regarding 
the globular shape of heaven and earth, and what is 
between them, and regarding the fact that the earth, 
situated in the centre of the globe, is only of a small 
size in comparison with the visible part of heaven. 
These thoughts are the elements of astronomy as con- 
tained iu the first chapter of Ptolemy's Almatje* 5^ and 
of simitar books, though they are not worked out in 
that scientific form in which we are accustomed to give 
them, 

(jC&cim&i ) 

for the earth is more heavy than the water, and the 
water is fluid like the air. The globular form must be 
to the earth a physical necessity, as long as it does not, 
by the order of God, take another form. Therefore the 
earth could not move towards the north, nor the water 
move towards the south, and in consequence one whole 
half is not terra firmrt, nor the other half water, unless 
we suppose that the term- firm# half be hollow. As far 
as our observation, based on induction* goes, the term 
fivma must be in one of the two northern quarters, and 
therefore we guess that the same is the case on the 
adjacent quarter. We admit the possibility of the 
existence of the island Vadavamtikha, but we do not 
maintain it, since all we know of it and of Morn is 
exclusively based on tradition. 

The equatorial line does not, in the quarter of the 
earth known to ns, represent a boundary between ter rtf, 


Co ai si d. e 1 -j, _ 

tioua ro- 

gariUntf tli 1.1 
vr>Ki ii'jditv 1 1 f 

tbe «arttT, 
tlia balance 
of pfravity 
luil.weun flie 
li nrthem 
and aoiitb. 
erm lialva^ 
and the at 
traction 
gov Ltation . 


Pjige 135, 


2/0 


ALBERUNFS INDIA r 


jltma and the ocean. For in certain places the con- 
tinont protrudes far into the ocean, so as to pass beyond 
the equator, e.g. the plains of the negroes in the west, 
which protrude far towards the south s even beyond the 
woimiams of the moon and the sources of the Nile, in 
fact, into regions which we do not exactly know. For 
that, continent is desert and impassable, and likewise 
the sea behind Suf'sUa of the Zartj is unnavi gable. No 
ship which ventured to go there has ever returned to 
relate what it had witnessed. 

Also a great part of India above the province of Sindh 
deeply protrudes far towards the south, and seems even 
to pass beyond tlie equator. 

In the midst between both lie Arabia and Yemen, 
but they do not go so far south as to cross the equator. 

Further, as the- terra firma stretches far out into the 
ocean, thus the ocean too penetrates into term firmi g 
breaking into it in various places, and forming bays 
and gulfs. For instance, the sea extends as a tongue 
along the west side of Arabia as far as the neighbour- 
hood of Central Syria-. It is narrowest near Kulzum. 
whence it is also called the Sea of JO f. hum. 

Another and still larger arm of the sea exists east of 
Arabia, the so-called Persimt Sea, Between India and 
Chin a, also, the sea forms a great curve towards the north. 

Hence it is evident that the coast-line of these 
countries does not correspond to the equator, nor keep 
an invariable distance from it, 

(Lacuna,) 

and the explanation relating to the four cities will follow 
in its proper place. 

The difference of the times which has been remarked 
is one of the results of the rotundity of the earth, and 
of its occupying the centre of the globe. And if they 
attribute to the earth, though i! be round, inhabitants — 
for cities cannot be imagined without inhabitants — the 
existence of men on earth is accounted for by the- 


CHAPTER XXV L 


27 


attraction of everything heavy towards its centre, Le. 
the middle of {lie world. 

"Much to the same effect are the expressions of V&yu- Qaata.tk.na 

r, a A . . . . , fmn tha 

Pitrana, viz* that noon in Arnavavati is sunrise in Vai- r^w au.i 
vasvata, mid night in SukhEL, and sunset in Vi blub Unai 

Similar, also, are the expressions of Mfti&i/a-Purdna, 
for this book explains that east of Mem lies the city 
Amaravatipura, the residence of India, the rider, and 
his wife; south of Meru, the city Sarny a man ip lira, 
the residence of Yam a, the son of the Sum where he 
punishes and requites mankind ; west of Mem, the city 
Siildmpurm tho residence of Yarn na, i.e, the water ; and 
north of Mem, the city Vibhavanpura, belonging to th e 
Moon. Sun and planets revolve round Meru. When 
the 61111 has his noon position in A mar a v at ip u ra, it is 
the beginning of the day in S aihy am anipnra* midnight 
in S uk h;t t and the beginning of the night in Yibhavari- 
ptira. And when the sun has his noon position in 
Samyatnanipura, lie rises over SukMpnra, sets over 
Amaravatipura, and has his midnight position with 
relation, to Yibhavaripmra, Fag& 13*. 

1 { t b c au t h or of the M a isi/a -Pti rd t a says t b at the Annttoi n 1 a 

' ... * . untliorou 

sun rev 0 Ives ro u rid Menu he means a m 1 LL-1.1 ke rotation ike e 

round those who inhabit Merit, who, inconsequence of Mn t^a-ru- 
this nature of the rotation, do not know east nor west* 

The sun does not rise for the inhabitants of Merit in 
one particular place, but in various places. By tho 
word ead the author means the zenith of one city, and 
by iced, tho zenith of another. Possibly those four cities 
of the Midst/ a - Pard na are identical with those men- 
tioned by the astronomers. But the author lias not 
mentioned how far they are distant from Meru, What 
wfi have besides related as notions of the Hindus is 
perfectly correct and borne out by scientific methods; 
however, lliey are wont never to s peak of the pole unless 

1 r . iJmtmin- 

th ey 1 ne n ti 0 ninth e sa m e b re ath al s 0 the mo u 1 1 tain M e ru . s ptn and 

tji ft ? V arimiimi 

in the definition of what is tow the Hindus agree- idnitmtiio 

law oil 

with us, viz. that it is the centre of the -world, but their tfMviiatiaap 


A LB BRUNTS INDIA.. 


272 

expressions on this head are subtle* more particularly 
as this is one of the great, question a which is only 
handled by the most eminent of their scholars* 

So Brahmagupta say a : " Scholars have declared that 
the globe of the earth is in the midst of heaven, and 
that Mount Mern, the home of the Devas, a a well as 
Vadavamukba below, is the home of their opponents ; 
the J daity a and D&nava belong to it. But this bdov: is 
according to them only a relative one. Disregarding 
tliis, we say that the earth on all its sides is the 
same ; all people on earth stand upright, and all heavy 
tilings fall down to the earth by a law of nature, for 
it is the nature of the earth to attract and to keep 
things, as it is the nature of water to flow, that of fire 
to burn, and that of the wind to set in motion* It a 
tiling wants to go deeper down than the earth, let it 
try. The earth is the only low thing, and seeds always 
return to it, in whatever direction yon may throw 
them away, and never rise upwards from the earth/’ 

Varahamihira says : * Mountains, seas, rivers, trees, 
cities, men, and angels, all are around the globe of the 
earth. And if Yamakoti and Eh m are opposite to each 
other, one could not say that the one is low in its 
relation to the Other, since the low does not exist. 1 Low 
could one say of one place of the earth that it is low, 
as it is in every particular identical with any other 
place on earth, and one place could as little /rtK as any 
other. Every one speaks to himself with regard to his 
own self* i / am above and the others are below* whilst 
all of them arc around the globe like the blossoms 
springing on the branches of a Kadamba-tree. They 
encircle it cm all sides, but each individual blossom has 
the same position as the other, neither the one hanging 
downward nor the other standing n plight. For the 
earth attracts that. which is upon her, for it is the belovj 
towards all directions, and heaven is the above towards 
all direction sY 

As the reader will observe^ these theories of the 


CHAPTER XX VL 


2 73 

Hindus are based oil the correct, knowledge of the laws 
of nature* but, at the same time, they practise a little 
deceit upon their traditionalists and theologians. So 
Balabhadra the commentator says : “It is the most 
correct of the opinions of people, many and different as 
they are, that the earth and Stern and the zodiacal 
sphere are round* And the Apia (?)-punlna-kdra, i.r. 
the faithful followers of the Pit run a, say : 1 The, earth 
is like the back of a tortoise; it. is not round from 
below,’ They are perfectly right, because the earth is 
in the midst of the water, and that which appears 
above the water has the shape of a tortoise -back > and 
the sea around the earth is not navigable. The fact 
of the earth being round Is proved by eyesight/’ 

Here the reader must notice how Balabhadra declares 
the theory of the theologians as to the rotundity of the 
back to be true. He gives himself the air of not 
knowing that they deny that the womb, i.e. the other 
half of the globe, is round, and he busies himself with a 
traditional element (as to the earth being like the back 
of a tortoise), which, in reality, has no connection with 
the subject. 

Further, Balabhadra says ; <f Human eyesight reaches 
to a point distant from the earth and its rotundity the 
96th part of 500a yojmo\ i.e. 52 ytyana (exactly g2 x V)< 
Therefore man does not observe its rotundity, and hence 
the discrepancy of opinions on the subject.” 

Those pious men (the Apta (V)-pur;uia~k8ra) do not 
deny the rotundity of the back of the earth ; nay, they 
maintain it by comparing the earth to the back of a 
tortoise. Only Balabhadra makes them deny it (by 
t h e w ord s, u the ear th is u ot v 0 u 1 1 d fro 1 1 1 be lo w/ T sup/ u ) , 
since he understood their words as meaning that the 
water s 1 1 r roll n da th e ea rtl 1 . T 1 1 at win cl 1 rises abo v e th e 
water may either be globular or a plain rising above 
the water like an inverted drum. i.e. tike a segment of 
a round pilaster. 

VOL. L a 


Quotations 
l run 1 1 liul'V 
bbn.drjLp iLiid 

nu cbor's 
critic ignis 

HJSl ! 1 1 If in , 


I jr- 


274 


ALBERUNPS INDIA. 


■Gill dilution 

1111 til.* 

tout of 

hm'tLim 

viaioti CJX 
lIju eurtli . 


further, the remark of B&labhadra (v. p, 373), 
ill at. man. on account of the smallness of li is stature, 
cannot observe the rotundity of the earth, is not true : 
because oven if the human stature were as tall as the 


plumb-line of the highest mountain,, if he were to make 
liia observation only from uno single point without 
going to other places, and without reasoning about the 
observations made at the different places, even such a 
height would be of no avail to him, and lie would not be 
able to perceive (fie rotundity of the earth and its nature. 

What, however, is the connection of this remark 
with the popular theory? If he had concluded from 
analogy that that tide of the earth which it opposed 
to the round one — I mean the lower half -was also 
round, and if he then had given his theory about the 
extent of the power of human vision as a result of 
reflection, not as a result of the perception of the 
senses, M s theory would seem to have a certain foun- 
dation. 

With regard to Balabhadra’s definition of the extent 
which may be reached by the human eye. we propose 
the following calculation : — 

Let A B round the centre II represent the globe of 
th e ear tl 1 - B is the standin g- 
point of the observer ■, his 
stature is B C« Further, we 
draw the line 0 A, 50 that it 
touches the earth. 

Now it is evident that the 
field of vision is R A. which 
we suppose to be equal to 
of the circle t i.e, 3-f degrees, 
if we divide the circle into 
360 degrees. 

According to the method 
followed in tho calculation of the mountain Mem (in 
chap, xxiii), we divide the square of T A, ix. 50,625, bv 



X 


CHAPTER XXVI. 


275 


i L T, i.c. 343 1 f . Sb we get as -c \ uotient. T (J = cA 1 4! 43" ; 
and B G, tire stature of the observer, is o Q f 45". 

Our calculation is based on this, that H II, the .raji-ws 
is 3438'. However, the radius of the earth is, 
according to the circumference which we have men- 
tioned, 795^ 27' 16" (ifojcina'). If we measure B C by 
this measure, it is = 1 yojana r 6 hroia } 1035 yards 
( = 57*035 yards), if we suppose B C to be equal to four 
yards, it stands in the same relation to A T+ according 
to the measure of the sine, as 57,03;. t.e. the yards 
which we have found as the measure of the stature, to 
A T according to the measure of the &in«? t 22 5. If 
we now calculate the sine, we find, it to be o“ ; o' 1" 3'", 
and its arc has the same measure. However, each degree 
of the rotundity of the earth represents the measure of 
1 3 yojana ) 7 Lrom, and 333 £■ yards (&ic). 'Hi ere fore the 
field of vision on the earth is 291 § yards (sic). 13*- 

(For an explanation of this calculation see the notes.) 

The source of this calculation of Balabhadras is the 
Piilisa-siddkmi&iy which divides the arc of the quarter 
of a circle into 24 kardajdt. He says: “If anybody 
asks for the reason of this, he must know that each of 
these kardajdt is of the circle = 22 5 minutes ( — 3-J 
degrees). And if we reckon its sine, we find it also 
to be = 225 minutes.” This shows us that the sines are 
equal to their arcs in parts which are smaller than this 
kardaja. And because the sums iotus 7 according to 
Jhilisa and Aryabhata, has the relation of the diameter 
to the circle of 360 degrees, this arithmetical equality 
brought; Ralabhadra to think that the arc was perpen- 
dicular ; and any expanse in which no convexity pro- 
trudes preventing the vision from passing, aud which 
is not too small to be seen, is visible. 

This, however, is a gross mistake ; for the arc is 
never perpendicular, and the sine, however small it 
be, never equals the arc. This is admissible only for 
such degrees as are supposed for the convenience of 


276 


ALBERUNI’S INDIA , 


calculation, but it is never and nowhere true tor the 
degrees of the earth. 

The AnU of If Pulisa says (v. p. z6f) that the earth is held 
AucurdUijj to by an axis. lie does not mean thereby that in reality 
there exists such an axis, and that but for it the earth 
would fall. How could he say such a thing, since he 
is of opinion that there are four inhabited cities around 
the world, which is explained by the fact that every- 
thing heavy falls from all sides down towards the earth ? 
However, PuJisa holds this view, that the motion of the 
peripheric parts is the reason why the central parts are 
motionless, and that the motion of a globe presupposes 
two poles, and one line connecting them, which in the 
idea is the axis. It is as if he meant to say, that the 
motion of heaven keeps the earth in its place, making 
it the natural place for the earth, outside of which it 
could never be. And this place lies on the midst of the 
axis of motion. For the other diameters of the globe 
may also be imagined to be axes, since h they 

are all axes, and if the earth were not in the midst of 
an axis, there might be axes which did not pass through 
tl le e ar bh . H on ce on e m ay s ay m etap h ori cal 1 y th at t h e 
earth is supported by the axes, 

Wbtfihui-the As regards the resting of the earth, one of the ele- 
m-VifcUmt, mentary problems of astronomy, which offers many and 
evai 1 mi iL-' J g reat d if fi cn lties, th i s t too, is a dogma with tlie TTiitdti 
astronomers. Brahmagupta says in the BvahmamD 
dk&uta: “Some people maintain that the first- motion 
(from east, to west) does not lie in the meridian, but 
belongs to the earth. But Yarahamihira refutes them 
by saying: 1 If that were the case, a bird would not 
return to its nest as soon as it had it own away from 
it towards the west/ And, in fact, it is precisely as 
V ar all a m ih i ra say s. ’ ’ 

Brahmagupta says in another place of the same book : 
“The followers of Aryabhata maintain that the earth 
is moving and heaven resting. People have tried to 


CHAPTER XXVI. 


refute them by saving that, if such were the case, stones 
and trees would fall from the earth/’ 

But Brahmagupta does not agree with them, and says 
that that would not necessarily follow from their theory, 
apparently because he thought that all heavy things are 
attracted towards the centre of the earth. He says ■ 
"On the contrary, if that were the case, the earth would 
not pie in beeping an even and uniform pace with the 
minutes of heaven, the pniyas of the times” 

There seems to be some confusion in this chapter, 
pe rl s aps by th e fa u 1 ! of the t ra 3 1 s] a tor. Fo r U 1 e v limiter 
of keatxn are 21,600, and art!: called prd-na. he, breaths, 
because according to them each minute of the meridian 
revolves in the time of an ordinary human breath . 

Supposing this to be true, and that the earth makes 
a complete rotation eastward in so many breaths as 
heaven does according to his (Brahmagupta’s) view, we 
cannot see what should prevent the earth from keeping 
an even and uniform pace with heaven. 

Besides, the rotation of the earth does in noway im- 
pair the value of astronomy, as ail appearances of an 
astronomic character can quite as well be explained 
according to this theory as to the other. There are, 
however, other reasons which make it impossible. 
This question is most difficult to solve* The most pro- 
minent of both modern and ancient astronomers have 
deeply studied the question of the moving of the earth, 
and tried to refute it. We, too, have composed a book 
on the subject called Jf iff $k- ilvi-vt Ih aVa (Key of 
Astronomy)) in which we think we have surpassed our 
predecessors, if not in the words, at all events in the 
matter. 


< ) 


CHAPTER XXVIL 

ON THE FIRST TWO MOTIONS OF THE UNIVERSE (THAT 
FROM EAST TO WEST ACCORDING TO ANCIENT 
ASTRONOMERS AND THE PRECESSION OF THE EQUI- 
NOXES)., EOT IT ACCORDING TO HINDU ASTRONOMERS 
AND THE AUTHORS OF THE PURANAS, 

The astronomers of the Hindus hold on this subject 
mostly the same views as on r selves* We shall give 
t| notations from them, but shall at once confess that 
that which we are able to give is very scanty indeed. 
Quotation P li lisa says: “The wind makes the sphere of the 
m . 1 •!!!{■(. fixed stars revolve; the two poles keep it in its place, 

t ,ji -a. anc L jj.g mC jtion appears, to the inhabitants of A! omit 
Mem as a motion from the left to the right; to the 
inhabitants of Vadavfimukha as one from the right to 
the left , 51 

In another place he says : 4 ’ If anybody asks for the 
direction of the motion of the stars which we sec rising 
in the east and rotating towards the west until they set. 
let him know that the motion which we see as a west- 
ward motion appears different according to the places 
w h i eh the b pe ctato rs occ u py . The i n h abit an Is of M or j n t 
Mern see it as a motion from the left to the right, 
whilst the inhabitants of VadavtLtnnkha see it as the 
opposite, as a motion from the right to the left, The 
inhabitants of the equator see it exclusively as a 
westward motion, and the inhabitants of the parts of 
the earth between the poles and the equator see it 
more or less depressed, as their places have more or 


CHAPTER XXVII, 279 

less northern or southern latitude. The whole of this 
motion is caused by the wind, which makes the spheres 
revolve, and compels the planets and the other stars to 
rise in the east and to set in the west. This, however, 
is only an a widens* As for the c&w+ttir;* jy - i , the motions 
of the heavenly bodies are directed towards the east, 
from AkkaraftVi towards Albnfmn , the latter lying east 
of the former. But if the Inquirer does not know the 
lunar stations, and is not capable of procuring for him- 
self by their help an idea of this eastward motion, let 
him observe the moon herself, how she moves away from 
the sun once and a second time; bow she then comes 
near him, till she finally joins him. This will give him 
an idea of the necond motion/’ 

Brahmagupta says ; £S The sphere has been created 
as moving with the greatest rapidity possible about two 
poles without ever slackening, and the stars have been 
created where there is no Bain-hul- nor Slharftidn, i.e, on 
the front Ler between them, which is the vernal equinox.” 

Balabhadra, the commentator, says: “The whole 
world hangs on two poles, and moves in a circular 
motion, which begins with a kalpa and ends with a 
iculp<tr But people must not therefore say that the 
world, on account of the continuity of its motion, is 
without beginning and without end.” 

Brahmagupta says : i: The place without latitude 
(iVirafcshx e), divided into sixty ghat ik'd, is the horizon 
for the inhabitants of Morn. There east Is west; and 
behind that place (beyond the equator) towards the 
south is Vadavilmukha and the ocean which surrounds 
it, When the spheres and the stars revolve, the meri- 
dian becomes an horizon common to the Devas (in 
the north) and the Daityas (in the south), which they 
see together. But the direction of the motion appears 
to them as different. The motion which the angels see 
as a motion to the right, the Daityas see as one to the 
left, and vic& versd , just as a man who has a thing 011 his 




Quotations 
from 
IlraVima- 
gr?pEa and 
Utuiibbira'4i. 


A LBERUNfS INDIA. 


2 So 

right ndi\ looking into the water, sees it on his lei t . 
The cause of this uni form motion which never increases 
nor decreases is a wind, but it is not the common wind 
which we feel and hear; for this is lulled, and roused, 
and varies, whilst that wind never slackens.' ' 

In another place Brahmagupta says; “The- wind 
makes all the fixed stars and the planets revolve 
towards the west in one and Lhe same revolution ; but 
the planets move also in a slow pace towards the east, 
like a dust-atom moving on a potter's- wheel in a direc- 
tion opposite to that in which the wheel is revolving. 
That motion of this atom which is visible is identical 
with the motion which drives the wheel round, whilst 
its individual motion is not perceived. In Hi is view 
Lata, Aryabhata, and Yasishtha agree* but some people 
think that the earth moves while the sun is resting. 
That motion which mankind conceives as a motion from 
east to west, the angels (Peva) conceive as a motion 
from left to right, the J laity as as one from right to left / 1 


CiitiiMuin s 
of tha 
author. 

Tha wind 
a& t-lio 
m ator i if tJ 1 1 
Eiphero. 


This is all l have read in Indian books on the 
subject. 

Their speaking of the wind as the motor (supra) 
has, I think, only the purpose of bringing the subject, 
near to the understanding of people and to facilitate its 
study ; for people gee with their own eyes that, the 
wind, when blowing against instruments with wings 
ami toys of this kind, puts them into motion. But as 
soon as they come to speak of the first mover (Cod), 
they at once give up any comparison with the natural 
wind, which in all its phases is determined by certain 
causes. Bor though it puts things into motion, the 
moving is not its essence; and besides, it cannot move 
without being in contact with something, because the 
wind is a body, and is acted upon by external influences 
or means, its motion being commensurate with their 
force. 


„ CHAPTER XXVII. 2S1. 

Their saying that the wind tines not rest, simply 
means that the moving power works perpetually, and 
does not imply rest and motion such as are proper to 
bodies, Tint her, their saying that it does not darken 
means that it is free from all kinds of accidents ; for 
slackening and v:mkming only occur in such bodies or 
beings which are composed o£ elements of conflicting 
qualities. 

The expression that the two poles keep the sphere of 
the fixed stars (p. 2 78) means that they keep or pre- 
serve it in its normal state of motion, not that they 
keep or preserve it from falling down. There is a story 
of an ancient Greek who thought that once upon a time 
the Milky Way had been a road of the sun, and that 
afterwards lie had left it. Such a tiling would mean 
that the motions ceased to be normal * and to something 
like this the expression of the poles keeping the sphere of 
the jilted stars may be referred. 

The phrase of Balabhadra about the ending of the 
motion (that it ends with a kalpa, p. 2 79) means 
that everything which exists and may be determined 
arithmetically has no doubt an end, for two reasons : 
first, because it has a beginning, for every number 
consists of one and its reduplications, whilst the one 
it -elf exists before all of them ; and, secondly, because 
part ol' it exists iu the present moment of time, for if 
day a and nights increase iu number through the con- 
tinuation of existence, they must necessarily have a 
beginning whence they started. If a man maintains 
that time does not exist in the sphere (as one of its 
immanent qualities), and thinks that day and night- 
have- only a relative existence, exist only in relation to 
the earth and its inhabitants, that if, cp. t the earth were 
taken away out of the midst of the world, also night 
and day would cease to exist as well as the possibility 
of measuring elements composed of days, he would 
thereby impose upon Balabhadra the necessity of a 


Frags? 1 41. 


On the twn 

pole a .W v:i M i .-l jfy 
tEsri aplnitvy, 


O n tli u 
relative 
nature f>t 
tErnc-. 




ALBERUNPS INDIA. 


r 


Tho zuci'i- 
ciiiuj diridod. 
inti '■ Fixty 
{{JitUiM. 


On LIjc fiiLsil 


Tilt; dirci.- 
tluii n| thci 
IjcAVcnly 
miittOB, 

Kl'M.:]] iVfiffi 

illfferttil 
1> 'Ll I Us of 
the eanlL 


digression, and compel him to prove the cause, not of 
the first, but of the second motion. The latter cause is 
the cycles of the planets, which have only a relation to 
thr. sphere, not to the earth. These cycles Balabhadra 
indicates by the word kid-pa (v* p. 279), since it coin- 
prehend a them all, and since all of them begin with its 
beginning. 

If Brahmagupta says of the- meridian that it- is 
divided into sixty parts (v. p. 279), it is as if any one of 
11s should say. the meridian is divided into twenty -four 
parts ; for the meridian is a medium for measuring and 
counting time. Its revolution lasts twenty -four hours, 
or, as the Hindus will have it,, sixty ghatihi (or gharfy 
This is the reason why they have reckoned the risings 
of the zodiacal signs in ghatiM, not in times of the 
meridian (360 degrees). 

If, further, Brahmagupta says that the wind causes 
the fixed stars and the planets to revolve, if he besides, 
in particular, attributes a slow eastward motion to the 
planets (p, 280), he gives the reader to understand that 
the fixed stars have no such motion, or else he would 
have said that they, too, have the same slow eastward 
motion us tha planets, not differing from them save in 
*ize and in the variation which they exhibit in the re- 
trograde mot 1 on . So m e pe 0 pi e rel ate t h at. i 1 ue a \ 1 ci e 1 1 ts 
originally did not understand their (the fixed stars') 
motions until, in long periods of time, they became 
aware of them. This opinion is confirmed by the fact 
that Brahmagupta’s book does not, among the various 
cycles, mention the cycles of the fixed stars, and that 
he makes their appearing and disappearing depe nd 
upon invariable degrees of the sun. 

Jf Brahmagupta maintains (p* 278) that to the in- 
habitants of the equator the fi r rd w of ion is not a motion 
to the right and left, the reader must hear in mind the 
following. A man dwelling under cither of the two 
poles, to whatever direction he- turns, has always the 


CHAPTER xxvil 


moving heavenly bodies before himself, and as they 
move in one direction , they must necessarily first stand 
opposite one of his hands, and then, moving on, come 
to stand opposite his other hand. The direction of this 
motion appears to the inhabitants of the two poles just 
the very contrary, like the image of a thing in the 
water or a mirror, where its directions seem to be ex- 
changed. If the image of a man is reflected by the 
water or a mirror , he appears as a different man stand- 
ing opposite to the spectator, his right side opposite to m-, 
the left of the spectator, and his left side opposite to 
the right of the spectator. 

Likewise the inhabitants of places of northern lati- 
tude have the revolving heavenly bodies before them- 
selves towards the south, and the inhabitants of places 
of southern latitude have them before themselves 
towards the north. To them the motion appears 
the same as to the inhabitants of Men; and Yadavft- 
rnnkha. But as regards those living on the equator, 
the heavenly bodies revolve nearly abort- their heads f 
so they cannot have them bepyre themselves in any 
direction. In reality, however, they deviate a little 
from the equator* and in consequence the people there 
have n uniform motion before themselves on two sides, 
tha motion of the northern heavenly bodies from right 
to left, and that of the southern bodies from left to 
right. So they unite in their persons the faculty of 
the inhabitants of the two poles (viz, of seeing the 
heavenly bodies moving in different directions), and it 
depends entirely upon their will, if they want to see 
the stars move from {.lie right to the left or vice 
v&rscL 

It Is the tine passing through the zenith of a man 
standing on the equator which. Brahmagupta means 
when he says that it is divided into sixty parts (v. p + 

279). 

The authors of the Pur [in as represent heaven as a 


284 


A LB BR UNI’S INDIA. 


Quota I inn 
from the 
Nat* im.- 
Panifta, 


dome or cupola standing on earth and resting, and the 
stars as beings which wander individually from east to 
west. How could these men have any idea of the 
second motion ? And if they really had such an idea, 
how could an opponent of the same class of men con- 
cede the possibility that one and the same thing indi- 
vidually moves in two different directions ? 

We shall here communicate what we know of their 
theories, although we are aware that the reader will 
not derive any profit, from them, since they are simply 
useless. 

The Mat sya-Pur&na says ; “ The sun and the stars 
pass along southward ils rapidly as an arrow revolv- 
ing round Merit. The sun revolves round something 
like a beam, the end of which is burning when its 
revolution is very rapid. The sun does not really 
disappear (during the night): he is then invisible only 
to some people, to some of the inhabitants of the four 
cities on the four sides of Menu He revolves round 
Mem, starting from the north side of -Mount. Loka’.oka ; 
he does not pass beyond Lok aloha, nor illuminate its 
south side. He is invisible during the night, because 
he is so far away. Man can see him at a distance 
of TOGO yojana, but when he is so far away, a small 
object sufficiently near to the eye cun render him 
invisible to the spectator. 

ir When the sun stands in the zenith of Pushkara- 
Dvipa. he moves along the distance of one- thirtieth 
part, of the earth in three -fifths of an hour. 3 n so 
much time he traverses 21 laksha and 50,000 yojana, 
2, T 50,000 yojana. Then he turns to the north, and 
the distance he traverses becomes thrice as large. In 
cot iseqiien ee, tl 1 e d ay beco n i e s Ion g . The d i s ta 1 toe vv Inch 
the sun traverses in a southern day is 9 koti and 10,045 
yojant t . W h en h e th e n v e r. l 1 r n s to tl 1 e n orth an d r* • v ol v es 
round KsJdra , i.e. the Milky Way, Ills daily march is 
1 hoti and 21 lalc&faa yojawa" 


CHAPTER XXV It. 


2S5 


Now we ask the reader to consider how confused 
these expressions are. If the author of the Matsya- 
Fiirdna says “the stars pass as rapidly as an arrow/’ 
&c. ? we take this for a hyperbole intended for unedu- 
cated people; but we must state that the arrow-like 
motion of the stars is not peculiar to the south to the 
exclusion of the north* There are limits both in the 
north and south whence the sun returns, and the time 
of the sun’s passing from the southern limits to the 
northern is equal to the time of his passing from the 
northern limit to the southern. Therefore his motion 
northward has the same right of being described as {is 
rapid tf$ an arrow* Herein, however, lies a hint of the 
theological opinion of the author regarding the north 
pole, for lie thinks the north is the above and the south 
the blow. Hence the stars glide down to the south 
like children on a see-saw plank. 

If, however, the author hereby means the second 
motion^ whilst in reality it is the first t we must state 
that the stars in the second motion do not revolve round 
Mem, and that the plane of this motion is inclined 
towards the horizon of Mem by one -twelfth of the circle. 

Further, how far-fetched is this simile in which he 
connects the motion of the sun with a burning beam ! 
If we held the opinion that the sun moves as an un- 
interrupted round collar, bis simile would be useful 
in so far as it refutes such an opinion* But as we 
consider the sun as a body, as it were, standing in 
heaven, his simile is meaningless* And if he simply 
means to say that the sun describes a round circle, his 
comparing the sun to a burning beam is quite super- 
fluous. because a stone tied to the end of a cord describes 
a similar circle if it is made to revolve round the head 
(there being no necessity for describing it as burning}. 

That the sun rises over some people and sets over 
others, as he describes it, is true ; but here, too, he is 
not free from his theological opinions. This is shown 


Cilttci^nm 
of tljQ 
author on 
tlj-e tli a iry of 
the 

Purd-na. 


Mi- 


•306 


ALBERUNTS INDIA « 


by Ills mention of the mountain Lokaioka and his i-e- 
mark that the rays of the sun fall on it, on its human 
or north side, not on its wild nr south side. 

Further, the sun is not hidden during the night on 
account, of his great distance, but because he is covered 
by something — by the earth according to us, by Mount 
Mem according to the author of the MaUifa-Pm'thui. 
He imagines that the sun marches round Merit., whilst 
we are on one of its. sides. In consequence we are in 
a varying distance from the sun's path. That this is 
originally his opinion is confirmed by the later follow- 
i t ig re t Li ark s, T 1 1 at the sun is in vis ible d ur i u g th e nigh t 
has nothing whatever to do with his distance from us. 

The numbers which the author of the Mai&ya-Furdna 
mentions i hold to be corrupt, as they are not borne 
out by any calculation He represents the path of the 
sun in the north as threefold that in the south, and 
makes this the cause of the difference of the length of 
the day. Whilst in reality the sum of day and night is 
always identical, and day and night in north and south 
stand, in a constant relation to each other, it seems 
necessary that we should refer his remarks to a latitude 
where the summer-day 3 s 45 ghat-ikei. the winter-day 
r; f/hatikd long. 

Further, his remark that the sun hastens in the north 
(marches there more rapidly than in the south), re- 
quires to be proved. The places of northern latitude 
have meridians not very distant, from each other, be- 
cause of their being near to the pole, whilst the 
meridians become more distant from each other the 
nearer they are to the equator. If, now, the sun hastens, 
in traversing a smaller distance, he wapts less time 
than for traversing the greater distance, more especially 
if on this greater distance his march is slackening. 
In reality the opposite is the case. 

By his phrase when ike sun- revolves above Ptfshkara- 
dvtpa (p. 2S4.) is meant the line oi the winter solstice. 


chapter XXVIL 2S7 

According to him, on this line the day must be longer 
than in any other place, whether it be the summer 
feu 1 st ice or another. All this is unintelligible. 

Similar notions are also found in the J^dyu-Purdna , 
viz. “that the day in the south is twelve muMirta, in 
the north eighteen, and that the sun between south and 
north has a decH nation of [ 7 , 231 yojanff i n 183 days, i.e. 
94(tV^) yu/Vtna for each day/' 

One mnhlvla is equal to four-fifths of an hour (^48 
minutes), The sentence of the Vdyu-Furdnu applies 
to a latitude where the longest day is 14! hours. 

As regards the numbers of the yojanm mentioned 
by the Vdi/u-Purd?^ the author means evidently the 
poriio of the double declination of the sphere. Accord- 
ing to him, the declination is twenty-four degrees ; 
therefore the yojanas of the whole sphere would be 
12945 y\+ And the days in which the sun traverses 
the double declination are half the- solar year, no regard 
being had to the fractions of days, which are nearly 
five-eighths of a day. 

Further, the V&yu-Pvrd'm. says “that the sun in the 
north marches slowly during the day and rapidly dur- 
ing the night, and in the south vice vi-rsit. Therefore 
the day is long in the north, even as much as eighteen 
muhilvltiC' This is merely the language of a person 
who has not. the slightest knowledge of the eastern 
motion of the sun, and is not able to measure a day's 
arc by observation* 

The Vishnu- Wiav'mct says: “ The orbit of the Great 
Bear lies under the pole j under it the orbit 0 f Saturn ; 
then that of Jupiter ; next Mars, the Sun, Venus, 
Mercury, and the Moon. They rotate towards the 
east like a mill, in a uniform kind of motion which is 
peculiar to each star, some of them moving rapid ly, 
others slowly. Death and life repeat themselves on 
them fro ill eternity thousands of times*” 

If you examine this statement according to scientific 


Q. notation 
from 1 h 0 
Vdyu- 
f^rd+UT. 


144, 


Qi.iLiUiitiHin 
fro Hi. tlio 
Fifiky K- 


ALEERUNfS INDIA. 


2S8 

principles, you will find that It is confused. Conceding 
that the Great Bear is under the pole and that the 
place of the pole is absolute height, the Great Bear 
lies helow the zenith of the inhabitants of Mem. In 
this statement he is right, but he is mistaken with 
regard to the planets. For the word hdow is, accord- 
ing to him, to be understood so as to mean a greater or 
smaller distance from the earth ; and tbits taken. Ins 
statement (regarding the distances of the planets from 
the earth) is not correct, unless wo suppose that Sat urn 
has, of all planets, the greatest declination from the 
equator, the next greatest Jupiter, then Mars, the Sun, 
Venus, &a, and that at the same time this amount of 
I heir declination is a constant one. This, however, 
does not correspond to reality. 

If we take the sum total of the whole statement of 
the Vishtyw-Dkamna, the author is right in so far as the 
fixed stars are higher than the planets, but he is wrong 
in so far as the pole is not higher than the fixed stars. 

The mill-like rotation of the planets is the first 
motion towards the west, not the second motion indicated 
by the author. According to him, the planets are the 
spirits of individuals who have gained exaltation by 
their merits, and who have returned to it. after the 
end of their life in a human shape. According to 
my opinion, the author uses a number in the words 
thousands of times (p. 2 By), either because be wanted 
to intimate that their existence is an existence in our 
meaning of the term, an evolution out of the 
into the irpa|&$ (hence something finite, subject to 
numeration or determination by measure), or because 
he meant to indicate that some of those spirits obtain 
moJ^sha, others not. Hence their number is liable to 
a more or fes:^ and everything of this description is of 
a finite nature. 


( ) 


CHAPTER XXVIII. 

* 

ON THE DEFINITION QH THE TEN D111ECTION&. 

T\\V, extension of bodies in space is in three directions; 
lenf/th. breadth j and depth or height - . The path of any 
real direction* not an imaginary one, is limited; there- 
fore the 1 me s rep re ee n ti n g t hese thr e e pa t h s are Urn i ted > 
and their six end-points or limits are tho dafetelions* 

If you imagine an animal in the centre of these lines, 

•Le, where they cut each other, which turns its face 
towards one of them, the directions with relation to 
the animal are hefin m e t behind t rvjht, le/L above, and 
below. 

If these directions arc used in relation to the world, 
they acquire new names. As the rising and setting of fi^q I45 , 
the heavenly bodies depend upon the horizon and the 
first -i notion becomes apparent by the horizon, it is the 
most convenient to determine the directions by the 
horizon. The four directions, east, west, norths south 
(corresponding to before, behind, left, and right), are 
generally known, but the directions which lie be- 
tween each two of these arc less known. These 
make eight directions, and, together with above and 
bdoic, which do not need any further explanation, ten 
directions. 

The Greeks determined the directions by the rising 
and setting places of the zodiacal signs, brought them 
into relation to the winds, and so obtained sixteen 
directions, 

YGLh h 


T 


2i)0 


ALBERUNTS INDIA. 


Also the Arabs determined the directions by the 
blowing-points of the winds. Any wind blowing be- 
tween two cardinal winds they called in general NidM> 
Only in rare cases they are called by special names of 
their own. 

The Hind ns, in giving names to the directions, have 
not taken any notice of the blowing of a wind : they 
simply call the four cardinal directions, as well as the 
secondary directions between them, by separate name*. 
So they have eight directions in the horizontal plane, 
as exhibited by the following diagram : — 


4>- 

<b' 


i 

South. 




%. 

% 

Dak shin el. 

‘•V. 


West. 

i— 1 

.y 

1: 

p 

Marfhysuukriii, 

V f?. 

tlic middle country. 

H— 

— 

£> 

East. 


% 

\ 

Uttanu 

\ , 

1 

% 


North. 


# j 


Besides there are two directions more for the two 
poles of the horizontal plane, the above and hdow, 
the former being called Upan., the second Ad has and 
Tala. 

These directions, and those in use among other 
nations, are based on general consent. Since the hori- 
zon is divided by innumerable circles, the directions 
also proceeding from its centre hre innumerable. The 


CHAPTER XXVUh 


291 

two ends of every possible diameter may bo considered 
as fe/bre and MrircA and therefore the two ends of the 
diameter cutting the former at right angles (and lying 
in the same plane) are rigid and left-. 

The .Hindus can never speak of anything, be it an 
object of the intellect or of imagination, without repre- 
senting it as a. personification, an individual. They at 
once marry him, make him celebrate marriage, make his 
wife become pregnant and give birth to something* So, 
too, in this ease. The Vishnu-Bkamia relates that 
Airi , the star who rules the stars of the Great Bear, 
a n arrie d th c 1 1 ireciio n s, re prese n t ed as on e person , th 0 u gli 
they are eight, in number, and that from her the moon 
was born. 

Another author relates : Dak ska, i,e, Prajilpafci, mar- 
ried Dhanua, the reward, to ten of his daughters, i.e. 
the ten directions. From one of them he bad many 
children; She was called Vas% and her children the 
Vasus. One of them was the moon. 

No doubt our people, the Muslims, will laugh at such 
a birth of the moon* But. I give them still more of this 
stuff* Thus, e,r/. they relate : The sun, the son of Kas- 
yapa and of Aditya, his wife, was born in the sixth Man- 
van tarn 011 the lunar station VS^akhtl ; the moon, the son 
of Dli arm a, was born on the station Krittika ; Mars, the 
sou of Frajilpati, on Furvftshndha ; Mercury, the son of 
the moon, on DhamshtM ; Jupiter, the son of Afigiras, 
on FilrvaphMgnni j Venus, the daughter of Bhrtgu, on 
Pushy a ; Saturn on Bevati : the Bearer of the Tail, the 
son of Yam a, the angel of death, on Aslesha* and the 
Head on Bevati, 

According to their custom, the Hindus attribute 
certain dominants to the eight directions in the 
horizontal plane, which we exhibit, in the following 
table : — 


292 A LB BRUNTS INF?! A, 


Tholr TtomiriMiiflr Tbc.* TiLraablons. 

Their in on i t.-i. 


Infra . , , East. 

Varunn , . 

Wefili. 

The Fire . . S.l£. 

Viiyii . . , NAY- 

Yainn . , i South. 

Earn . . . North* 

Frit Em . , S.W, 

M&l i:\dcva . N-E- 


The Blind us construct a figure of these eight direc- 
tions, called li&kucahra, i.e. the figure of Hie Head, by 
means of which they try to gain an omen or prophecy 
for hazard -playing. It is the Following diagram : — 


swiii- 



The figure is used in this way : First, you must know 
the dominant of the day in question, and its place it) 
the present figure. Next you must know that one of 
the eight parts of the day in which you happen to be. 
These eighths are counted on the lines, beginning with 


CHAPTER XXVI IL 


293 

the dominant of the day* in -uninterrupted succession 
from east to south and west. Thus you find the domi- 
nant of the eighth in question. If, e.g^ you want to 
know the fifth eighth of Thursday whilst Jupiter is the 
domdnus did in the south, and the line proceeding from 
the south terminates in north-west, we find that the 
dominant of the first eighth is Jupiter, that of the 
second is Saturn, that of the third the sun, that of the 
fourth the moon, and that of the fifth Mercury in the 
north. In this way you go on counting the eighths 
through the day and the night till the end of the 
When thus the direction of the eighth of 
the day in which you are has been found, it is considered 
by them as Baku ; and when sitting down to play, you 
must place yourself sc that you have this direction at 
y o u r hack . T f 1 e n y 0 11 w 11 1 win, accord i ng to th ei r belief. 
It is no affair of the reader to despise a man who, on 
account o£ such an omen, in a variety of games stakes 
all his chances on cue cast of the dice. Suffice it to 
leave to him the responsibility of his dice-playing. 


i VLyjc c 


f 294 ) 


Tlj* Bsatai 

Bli u Vi.11 1 x- 
ko$o, on the 
mbabitablEi 
world. 


CHAPTER XXIX. 

DEFINITION Ob' THE INHABITABLE E A 1 'lTTT ACCORDING 
TO THE HINDUS. 

In the book of the Kish I Bhuvanakosa we read that the 
inhabitable world stretches from Him av ant towards the 
south, and is called llUarata-varsha. so called from a 
man, Bhar&jba, who ruled over them and provided for 
them. The inhabitants of this are those to 

whom alone reward and punishment in another life 
are desti n ed , 1 1 is d i vid ed i n to n i n e parts , called JVa va - 

kha ii d a-pratha m a y i.e, the primary nine parts, He tween 
each two parts there is a sea, which they traverse front 
one Jdmnda to the other. The breadth of the inhabit- 
able world from north to south is 10QG yojana* 

By Him av ant the author means the northern moun- 
tains, where the world, in consequence of the cold, 
ceases to be inhabitable. Ro all civilisation must of 
necessity be south of these mountains. 

His words, that the inhabitants arc subject to reward 
and punislrment, indicate that there are other people 
not subject to it. These beings ho must either raise 
from the degree of man to that of angels, who, in con- 
sequence of the simplicity of the elements they are 
composed of and of the purity of their nature, never 
disobey a divine order, being always willing to worship ; 
or he must degrade them to the degree of irrational 
animals. According to him, therefore, there arc no 
human beings outside the oIkoujacotj (i.e, Bharata- 
var&hd). 


CHAPTER XXIX. 


295 


Bhumtavarsh a is not India alert e, as Hindus think, 
according to whom their country is the work], and their 
race the only race of mankind ; for India is not 
traversed by an ocean separating one khan da From the 
0 th er . 1 hi r th er, th ey do 11 ot i d e 11 ti f y th e se M a nda w ith 
the dvipas t for the author says that on those seas 
people pass from one shore to the other. Further, 
it follows from his statement that all the inhabitants 
of the earth and the Hindus are subject to reward 
and punishment^ that they are one great religious 
community. 

The nine parts are called Frathanm, ie. primary ones, 
because they also divide India alone into nine parts. 

80 the division of the oIkov^lci^ is a primary one, but 
the division of Bharatavarsha a secondary one, Be- 
sides, there is still a third division into nine parts, as 
their astrologers divide each country into nine parts 
when they try to find the lucky and 11 ninety places 
in it. 

We find a similar tradition in the V&ya-Pm'&na, viz. Qwuuun 
that “the centre of Jambn-dvipa is called ilharata- 
v&reha, which means those who acquire something and 
nourish thems&ltm. With them there are the four V‘itf/a r 
They are subject to reward and punishment; and 
Him av ant lies to the north of the country. It is 
divided into nine parts, and between them there are 
navigable seas. Its length is 9000 yojana, its breadth 
IQQO; and because the country is also called Sam- 
nSifa (?), each ruler who rules it is called Sam ultra (?), 

The shape of its nine parts is as follows/’ 

Then the author begins to describe the mountains in 
the khan da between the east and north, and the rivers 
which rise there, but. he does not. go beyond this de- 
scription, Thereby he gives ns to understand that, 
according to his opinion, this I'hmida is the olKov^h^, me,-!? u &, 
But he contradicts himself in another place, where lie 


fill tlLES 
fijj lit; 

A' iV'w-H''- 

fln^rrr, 


296 A LEE RUNTS INDIA . 

Bays that Jambu-dvipa is the centre among the 
]Jumda-'pi '(Uhaw h-, and the others lie towards the eight 
directions* There are angels on them, men, animals, 
and plants* .By these words he seems to mean the 

fh-Tpas, 

II 1 the breadth of the dmvpiviq is 1000 yojmia, its 
length must be nearly 2800. 

further, the V&y-u-Pmxvtw mentions the cities and 
countries which lie in each direction. We shall exhibit 
them in tables, together with similar information from 
other sources, for this method renders the study of the 
subject easier than any other. 

Here follows a diagram representing the division of 
Bharatavarsha into nine parts. 


N%jnivtpa, 

Souttv 

Tftmra varna. 

GlabhastiniivL 

->=■ 

m 

CJ 

£ 


Tudradvlpa or 
Mstdli Lt. 

the micfdle country. 

KfiHcruinaE. 

Bast, 

GAndM-rat. 


Nsgarasamirritta, 

North. 


We have already heretofore mentioned that that part 
of the earth in which the oIkov^vt] lies resembles a 
tortoise, because its borders are round, because it rises 
above the water and is surrounded by the water, and 
because it has a globular convexity on its surface. 
However, there is a possibility that the origin of the 
name is this, that their astronomers and astrologers 
divide the directions according to the lunar stations. 


CHAPTER XXIX. 


297 


Therefore the country, too, is divided according to the 
lunar stations, and the figure which represents? this 
division, is similar to a tortoise. Therefore it is called 
KArma-cahn, i.e * the 1. or toise- circle or the tortoise- 
shape, The following diagram is from the Sam hit & of 
\ anil 1 ami] lira. 


A, 

% 


■f 


^ J v^l iib ft. 

& Mfila. ' 
p: l’fiT'VilshAdhA 


> 


V 

7 


Jkk 


%< 


$ 


Sootflt 

Q'Zr* 


Nl/ 


A 

kt 

.^S| 

lT ! "7i 

Is 3 
5 si 

up ^ 

■TO&fci 

Noin'H 


A" A; 4 


4 




z 

\ 


■fisirvnmn i .j 

W T ? 




VaT&hamihira calls each of the jfatWcAa-ntfa a vmga. 
He says: " By them (the vargas) Rbaratavarsha, U 
half of the world, is divided into nine parts, the cen- 
tral one, the eastern, Sec” Then he passes to the south, 
and thus round the whole horizon. That he under- 
stands by Eharatavareha India alone is indicated by 
his saying that each varga has a region, the king of 


pAge 

¥:: k \ (.1 L \-isqi 1 1 l 

L>f Jlhfcttltft- 

vnrf-l^L 
a open: (ling U? 
V : IT ill) ft mi - 


On tbe 
change nf 
:.l 1 1- 

cul :mni^ r 


39 ® A LB BRUNTS INDIA . 

which is killed when some mishap befalls it. So 
belong 

To the JkE oi- central varga, tha region JMFtoAk. 


IS 

ad rorga, 


,T 

Mag&dha, 

“P 

3d varga. 


*T 

Kaliftga. 

tp 

4th yarga, 


T1 

A van ti t i e. Ujaiu. 

Ip 

5 th varga, 


,, 

Ananta. 

■ 9 

6th varga. 


u 

Sis dh u and Sauvira. 

pp 

7th vaiga, 



H^mltauva. 

p4 

Sth varga, 


], 

Madura, 

?S 

Qth vn.rga r 



Kuliark, 


All these countries are parts of India proper. 

Most of the names of countries under which they 
appear in this context are not those by which they are 
now generally known* Utpala, a native of Kashmir, 
says in his commentary on the book Samhitd regarding 
this subject: fi The names of countries change* and 
particularly in the yugas* So Multan was originally 
called Kulyapapum, then Ilumsapnra. then Bagapura, 
then S&mbliapnra, and then Mtilmthdna, ie. the origi - 
nal plmBj for mula moans root, origin, and tfhia means 
place." 

A yuga is a long space of time, but names change 
rapidly, when, for instance, a foreign nation with a 
different language occupies a country. Their tongues 
frequently mangle the words, and thus transfer them into 
their own language, as is, e.g + the custom of the Greeks. 
Either they keep the original meaning of the names, and 
try a sort of translation, but then they undergo certain 
changes. So the city of Shaslp which lias its name from 
the Turkish language, where it is called Task-kand, i.e. 

; Uoue^ity, is called stone4ower in the book yeuypft<f>L, 
In this way new names spring up as translations of 
older ones. Or, secondly, the barbarians adopt and 
keep the local names, but with such sounds and in such 
forms as are adapted to their tongues, as the Arabs do 
in Arabising foreign names, which become disfigured in 


CHAPTER XXIX. 


m 

their mouth : epj. B&shawj they call in their books 
FiUanjy ami Sakilfomd they call in their revenue-books 
Fdr/ma (svS). However, what Is more curious and 
strange is this, that sometimes one and the same lan- 
guage changes in the mouth of the same people who 
apeak it, in consequence of which strange ami uncouth 
forms of words spring up, not intelligible save to him 
who discards every rule of the language, And such 
changes are brought about in a few years, without there 
being any stringent cause or necessity for it. Of course, 
in all of this the Hindus are actuated by the desire to 
have as many names as possible, and to practise on them 
the rules and arts of their etymology, and they glory in 
the enormous copiousness of their language which they 
obtain by such means. 

The following names of countries, which we have 
taken from the V&yu-PuT&'ipa, are arranged according to 
the four directions, whilst the names taken from the 
Savhhitd are arranged according to the eight directions. 
All these names are of that kind which we have here 
described (i.e* they are not the names now in general 
use). We exhibit them in the following tables : — 

The single comdritA of ike middle realm > according to 
the V&yn<- Pu rd n a , 

Kura, Piblefdn, Sulva, Jangala, ^hmaena. Bliadra- 
ls u r a (!), Bo d 1 1 a , 1 5 atl lefSva ra, V a tsa, K i sad y a, K; i i I y a,,. 
K Li ii t al a, K as E , Kosai a , Art h ayushava (?) , P si h 1 i n ga ( f), 
Mashaka (•), Vrika. 

The people in the east : — 

Andhra, Vuka. Mudrukaraka (?), Priitragira (?}, Valiir- 
gira, Prathanga (?), Vabgeya, MAlava (!), Mulavartika, 

I hug j y ot i sh a, M 1 1 n d a, A b ika ( ? ), r J Vi 1 1 1 ra lip tik a, ^ 1 ft 1 a, 
Magadka, G ovinda (Gcnanda ?). 

The people in the south : — 

Plndva, Kerala, Caulya, Eulyti, Sotnka, Mftshika, 
Kami an a (?}„ Vmiavfirika, kfabarashtra, Mfthishn. Ka- 


PlL|^C I50 


A LEER UN i 'S INDIA . 


300 

Pnp;j> , 5 Tl lift gs t Abh i ra, I >li ika , A L avv a. Savara ( 1 ) , Puli n A ra > 
VimlhyamAlI, Yaidarbha, Dandaka, Mulika(E). Asm aka, 
N nit i fca ( ■ ) , J 5 h oga vardh ai 1 a, Ki 121 1 al a, A a id 3 a ra, Udblii ra, 
X al aka, A 1 i k. a . Dak si 1 i n iky a, V aidesa, S a rpfi ,k fir a k a, 
Kol a v an a t ! J 11 rga, Ti 1 1 ita { ? ) , Pul ey a, K 1 m 3 a ( ■ ) t P u paka „ 
Tamasa, Tarupana (?), Karas kara, Kflsikya, L’ttarauar- 
m ad a, Ehamikaechra (?), Alaheya, S&raswata (?), Kao- 
chiya, Sur&shtra, Anartta, Hudvuda (?), 

The people in the west : — 

Malada (?}, Karilsha, Mekala, Utkala, Uttamarna, 
Bahama (0, Bhoja, Kishkinda, Kosala, Traipnra, Vaidika T 
Tharp ura (?), Tumbling Shatiimjfi.ua (?), Pad ha, Kar- 
napr&varana (J), Hftna, Darya, Huhaka (I), Trigartta, 
Miilava, Kirata, Tfimara, 

The people in the north : — 

Vahlika (]}* Vadlni, Tina (?), Abhira, Kalatoyaka, 
Aparu nta (?), Paid ava, Car m ak ha n cl i k a, G k ndli ft ra s Y a- 
v :ina T Sindh u, Sauvira, %c r Multan and J ah raw hr, 
V] adhra (?}, Saka, Drib Ala (?), Litta (Kulinda), Alalia (f), 
Kodara (?), Atreya, Kharadva, Jfmgrda, Daseruka (I) f 
Lampaka, Tfllakuna ( V), Sftlika, Jflgara. 

The names of the countries for the tortoise f if [are, as 
taken from the Sarhhitd of Vardiatmikirtt. 

I. The names of the countries in the centre of the 
realm : — 

Bhadra, Ari t Me da. JHftndavya, Sul van L Pojphilna, 
Alarm Vfttea, Ghosha, the valley of the Yamuna, Sfiras- 
vata, Matsya, Mathura. Kopa, Jyotisha, Dharrnfiranya, 
Sfirasena, Gaitragriva, IJddehika near Bazi'ina, Pftndu, 
Fa4j& 153. G uda = Tarnish ar ? Asvattha, Pancala, Sfiketa. Kanka, 
Kuru = TgLnSshar, Kdlkoti., Knknra. Pariyittra, A 11 d um- 
bara. Kapishthala, Gaja. 

II. The names of the countries in the east : — 

Afi] ana, Vrishabadhvaja, Padma-Tulya (aic), Yyii- 
gh ram nidi a, Le. people with tiger-faces, Suhma, Tvar- 
vata, Oandrapura, Surpakarna^ i.e, people with ears like 


CHAPTER XXIX. 


3°i 


sieves, Ivhasha. Magadha. Mount Sibira, Mlthilft* Sama- 
tata, Odra, Asvayadanu. i.e, people with horse-faces, 

Dari t lira, i.e. people with long teeth, Pragjyotisha, 
Lohitya, Krira-samudra (aic) t i.e. the mi lk -sea, Puni- 
sh Ada, Udayagiri. i.e. the mountain of sunrise, Bhadra, 
Gauraka, Paumlra, Utkala, Kft4i, Mekala, A inbash t ha, 
Ekapada, Le. the one-footed people, Tamalipfiika, Kau- 
salaka, Vardham&na. 

III. The names o£ the countries of the south-east 
{Agnega)\— 

Kosala, Kaliflga, Vahgn, Upavanga, J at liar a, Anga, 
ttaulika. Vidarbha, Vat? a, Andhra, Oolika (?), tTrdhva- 
kama, i.e, people whose ears are directed upwards, 

Vriisha, Nfilikera, Oarmadvipa, the mountain Yindhya, 
Tripnrij f^malrudhara, Hemakfttya, Yy fdagriva, i e. Peye iu 
people whose bosoms are snakes, Maluigriva, i.e, people 
who have wide bosoms, Kisliklndha, the country of the 
monkeys, Kaiidakasthala, Nishada, B&khtra, Dasaroa, 

P u v t ka. Nag n a pan i a, Savara. 

IV. The names of the conn tries in the south ; — 

Lanka, i.e. the cupola of the earth, Kalajina, Sairi- 

k'i'rna (?), Tali kata, Ctirnagara, Malaya, Dardura, Ma- 
hendm, MiUindya, Bharukaccha, Kan kata, Tahkana. 
Vanavftsi on the coast, Sibika, Phanikara, Kofikana 
near the sea. Abhira, Akara, Venfi a river, Avanti. i.e. 
the city of Ujain, Daiapur a, Gonarda, Keralaka, Karnata, 
Afahatavi, Citrakdta, Nasikya, Kollagiri, Uola, Krami- 
cad v i pa, r J at ad 1 l a r a, K a u ve ry a, R i shy an i u k a, Vaid i'i ry a, 
Nahklui. Alukta, Atri I Van car a. Jarmapa.ttana (sic), 

I > v i pa t Ga n a raj y a, K ris h n aval d urya, Sibi ka , S vi ry fid ri , 
Kusiimanaga, Tumbavana, Karmaneyaka, YarnyodadM, thvat^ 
r rat>asasvama ? Rkliika f Kiln cl, Mamcipattana, Divarsa (! ), 

S i ] ilk a la T lii sli ah 1 ia , 1 3 ulade v a pat t an a, DandaM v an a, 

I I i min gil a s an a ( i ) , B 1 1 ad ra , K accha, K u fi i j a f ad a i i , Ta n l ra- 
parna. 

V. Hie names of the countries in the south-west 
(A r aifjita ) : — ■ 


302 


ALBERUNPS INDIA. 


Kamboj a, Sindhiij Sauvira, i.e, Multan and Jahravflr. 
V ad a v a m uklia, A ra v a m baa hth a t Kapil a , I Vi, ra«av a, i . e. 
the Persians, Sfidra. Barbara, KMta, Klianda, Kravya, 
Abhira, Cancfika, Hemagiri, Bin dim, IGilaka, llaivataka. 
8 ll riish t ra, 1 J i-idara, I ) ra m Id a „ M all u ri i av a, N u ri n i u kl m , 
men with women’s faces, i.e. the Turks, Anartn, 
Pheiiagiri, Ttwana, i.e* the Greeks, Mftraka, Karnaprft- 
varana. 

VL The names of the countries in the west : — 

Maui tn an, Megh avail, Van an glia. A&tagiri, i.e. the 
country of sunset-, Aparfrnbaka, Sfmtika, llaihaya, lTa- 
sastMrij Vokk3.ua, Pan can ad n T the union of the five 
livers, Mathura,, PArata. TArakruti (?) t ■f rbiga. Vaisya, 
Kanaka, Sitka, Mleccha, i.e. the Arabs- 

VII. The names of the countries in the north-west 
( Vdyam ) : — 

• M andayya, Ti ikhu ra. TAlahala, Madra , Asm aka, K llIlj - 
i’ugc ijb. talahada. Strimjya, i, e, women amongst- whom no man 
dwells longer than half a year, Nnsimhuvaua, i.e. people 
with lion-faces, Khastha, i.e* people who are born from 
the trees, hanging on them by the navel-strings, Venn- 
mat i (0.- Tirmidli, Phalgulu, Guru hub Marti kncca, 

Carmamnga, i.e t people with coloured skins, Ek&vilo 
cana, i.e. the one-eyed men, Sulika, Dlrghagriva, i.e. 
people with long bosoms, which means with long necks, 
Dlrghamukha, i.e. people with long faces, Dirghake£a, 
i.e. people with long hair. 

VIII. The names of the countries in the north : — 

Ksilasa, Ilimavant, Vasumant, Giri, Dimmish man (I). 

i,e. the people with bows, Kraunca, Mem, Knrava, 

1 1 ttarak ur av a. K s h u d ra mi n a, K aikay a . V a ? u t. i , Yam \ 1 n a, 
i.e* a kind of Greeks, Bhogaprastba, Arjunayana, Ag- 
nitya. Adursa, Antardvipa, Trigarta, Tnmganana, i.e. 
people with horse-faces, Svumukha, i.e. people with 
dog- faces. Kesadliara, Capitanaaika, i.r. flat-noses, D:G 
sera j E a v3.t adh an a . 8a radii;], n a, Ta ks h as i la La . Mail k al a, 
Pushkal avail, i.e. Pftkala, Kailnvata, Kanihadhana, 


CHAPTER XXIX. 


3®3 


A m b am, A l ad n ik a , M a l a v a, I *uu rav a, Kaccl i a ra . Dan d a, 
Pingalaka, Martahala, Huna, Eohala, Silt aka, Mairdavya, 
Rbiatapnra, Gundbara, Ynsovati, HematfiJa, Raj any a, 

Khajara, Yaudheya, D&sameya, Syamaka, Kshenm- 
dhurfca (?). 

IX. The names of the countries in the north-east 
(AiM.-ua ) : — 

M or 11 , K an as h t h aria jy a, I N a s u pa [ a, Kim Kas n\ i 1 a , p*a □ % 57 . 
Abhi, Silradu, Tafigaru\ Knlutr^ Samudha, Rushtra, 

J 5 rah m api ira, I >arya, Da 1 11 a ra, V an ark jy a . K i i\\ ta, C in a, 

K a unin da, Rhalla, Palola^ Jatfrsitra, Knnatha, Khaaha, 

Ghosha, Kticika, Ekacarana, ie. the one-footed people, 
Animsya, Snvarnabhfioii, ie. the gold land, Arvasu- 
d h an a (sic ), X ai ida v ish 1 1 1 a , Pan rav a, 0 i ra 1 1 iv asan a, r I ' ' 1 i n e- 
tra, i.c. people with three eyes. Puhj&dri, Band h ary a. 

Hindu astronomers determine the longitude of the o^R^uiea, 
inhabitable world by Lahka., which lies in its centra 011 i.mi sid<h.Y 
the equator, whilst Yamakoti lies on its east, Horn aka 3 
on its west, and SIddbapura on that part of the equator 
w h ich is di am et ri ca 1 ly oppo sed to Lab k n . T h ei r rein ar k s 
on the rising and setting of the heavenly bodies show 
that Yamakoti and Rum are distant from each other 
by half a circle. It seems that they assign the countries 
of the West (ic. North Africa) to Ritru or the Roman 
Empire, because the Hum or Byzantine Greeks occupy 
the opposite shores of the same sea (the Mediterranean); 
for the Roman Empire has much northern latitude and 
penetrates high into the north- No part of it stretches 
far southward, and t of course, nowhere does it reach 
the equator, as the Hindus say with regard to Rom aka. 

Wo shall here speak no more of Lanka (as we are 
going to treat of it in a separate chapter). Yamakoti 
i s , accord in g t 0 Ya k ij b a 1 1 d A 1 f aza H , the co 11 3 1 try w 1 ie re 
is the city Tara within a sea. I have not found the 
slightest trace of this name in Indian literature. As 
hv fi means cadi 6 and Yam a is the angel of death, the 


Tlie 

46ra.li nf 
Ujujii tin.' 
fi ivtf meri- 
dian. 


Pagw J- 5 ; 3 - 


Other ftrat 
meridiana 
ua$4 hy 
Western .lE' 
trvmomtra, 


304 ALBERUNI'S INDIA ■ 

word reminds me of Kangdiz, which, according to the 
Persians, had been built by KaikiViis or Jam in the 
most remote east, behind the sea, Kaikhusran tra- 
versed the sea to Kangdiz when following the traces of 
Afrftaiub the Turk, and there- he went, at the time of 
his anchorite life and expatriation. For tin means in 
Persian cm£k r, as koti in the Indian language* Abu- 
Ma'&har o[ Balkh has based Ins geographical canon on 
Kangdiz as the o° of longitude or first meridian. 

How the Hindus came to suppose the existence of 
Siddliapura I do not know, for they believe, like our- 
selves, that behind the inhabited half-circle there is 
nothing but run navi gable seas. 

In what wav the Hindus determine the latitude of 
a place has not come to our knowledge, Thai the 
longitude of the inhabitable world is a half- circle is a 
f a r-sprea d th eo 1 y arr long th eir as fcron 0 u 1 ers ; tl ley d i (T e r 
( f rom W ester n astro 1 1 on le rs ) on ly as to th e po i n t w 1 1 id 1 
is to be ils beginning. If we explain the theory of the 
11 i nd us as far as we understand it, their beginning of 
longitude is XJjain, which they consider as the eastern 
limit of one quarter (of the whilst the limit 

of the second quarter lies in the west at some distance 
from the end of civilisation, as we shall hereafter ex- 
plain in the chapter about, the difference of the longi- 
tudes of two places. 

The theory of the Western astronomers on this point 
is a double one. Some adopt as the beginning of longi- 
tude the shore of the (Atlantic) ocean T and they ex- 
tend the first quarter thence as far as the environs of 
Bal kb. Now, accord in g to this th eo r y , things h av e been 
united which have no connection with each other. So 
Shapiirkau and Ujain are placed on the same meridian. 
A theory which so little corresponds to reality is quite 
val 1 l el css, Gt h e r s a do | s t tl. 1 e Id a n t Is of t h e llaj ?yy/ On 
as the beginning of longitude, and the quarter of the 
oiKovfibrf they extend thence as far as the neighbour- 


CHAPTER XXIX. 


3°S 

hood of Jurjan and Nlshapftr* Both these theories are 
totally different from that of the Hindus. This subject, 
however* shall be more accurately investigated in a sub- 
sequent chapter (p. 3 1 1 ), 

If I, by the grace of God. shall live long enough, I 
shall devote a special treatise to the longitude of Nisha- 
pur, where this subject shall be thoroughly inquired 
into. 


U 


VOL L 


C 306 ) 


On thB 

tuyiilliug of 
the tcnn 
iu fxJ Li q( ikt 
tarth. 


Tiit story of 

RuriMih 


CHAPTER XXX. 

ON LANKA, OH THE CUPOLA OF THE EABTrU 

The midst of the inhabitable world, of its longitudinal 
extension from east to west on the equator* is by the 
astronomers (of the Muslims) called the cupola of the 
earth, and the great circle which passes through the 
pole and this point of the equator is called the wz vidian 
of the cupol a. We must., however, observe t h at wl 1 at ever 
may be the natural form of the earth, there is 110 place 
on it. which to the exclusion of others deserves the 
name of a cupola ; that this term is only a metaphorical, 
one to denote a point from which the two ends of the 
inhabitable world in east and west are equidistant, 
comparable to the top of a cupola or a tent, as all 
tilings hanging down from this top (tent-ropes or walls) 
have the same length, and their lower ends the same 
distances therefrom . But the Hindus never call this 
point by a term that* in our language must be inter- 
preted by cupola ; they only say that Lanka is. between 
the two ends of the inhabitable world and without 
latitude. There Havana, the demon* fortified him- 
self when he bad carried off the wife of Hama, the 
son of Lasaratha* His labyrinthine fortress is called 
(?), whilst in our (Muslim) countries it is 
cal 1 ed Ydvctn a.-ko (i ? wl lich h as f req w e ntly been ex plain ed 
as Home. 


CHAPTER XXX . 


3^7 


The following is the plan of the labyrinthine fort- 
ress : — 



Rama attacked Havana after having crossed the r^u *s«. 
ocean on a dyke of the length of i GO yojana t which he 
had constructed from a mountain in a place called 
Set'iibandha, i.c. bridge of the ocean, east of Ceylon. lie 
fought with him and killed him,, and Rama’s brother 
killed the brother of Havana, as is described in the 
story of Ram a and Ram fry ana. Thereupon he broke 
the dyke in ten different places by arrow-shots* 

According to the Hindus, Lanka is the castle of the on the 
demons. It is 30 yojana above the earth, ie. So far- inikL 
Its length from east to west is 100 yojam ; its 
breadth from north to south is the same as the height 
(ix. thirty), 

it is on account of Lanka and the island of Yad ava- 
il mkba that the Hindus consider the south as foreboding 
evil. In no work of piety do they direct themselves 


3o£ 


ALBERUNI'S INDIA. 


southward or walk southward. The south occurs only 
in connection with impious actions, 

T&e ftret The line on which the astronomical calculations are 
based (as cf of longitude), which passes in a straight 
line from Lanka to Merit, passes — ■ 

( i . ) Th ro u gh th e city of U j ai. 11 ( Ujjayin i) in !M 2 1 av a 
(Mfdva). 

(2,) Through the neighbourhood of the fortress Kohi- 
taka in the district, of Multan, which is now deserted. 

(3.) Through Knnikshetra, hr. the plain of Tftneshar 
(Sth Lines vara), in the centre of their country. 

(4.) Through the river Yamunii, on which the city ol 
ifathurS. is situated. 

(5.) Through the mountains of the Himavant, which 
are covered with everlasting snow, and where the 
rivers of their country risen Behind them lies Mount 
Merm 


ThoHtna, The city of IJjain, which in the tables of the longi- 
y l ™ h “ E tudes of places is mentioned as l Jzain^ and as situated 
on the sea, is in reality 100 yojana distant from the sea. 
Some mi discriminating Muslim astronomer has uttered 
the opinion that Ojain lies on the meridian of A.l- 
shabii rkfi n in A 1-j tlaaj an ; b n t s licit is n ot the case, for 
it. lies by many degrees of the equator more to the east 
than ALshaburkun. There is some confusion about the 
longitude of IJjain, particularly among such (Muslim} 
astronomers as mix up with each other the different 
opinions about the first degree of longitude both in east 
and west, and are unable to distinguish them properly. 
No sailor who has traversed the ocean round the 
Thozmu* 1 * place which is ascribed to Lafika, and Isas travelled in 
ubu'iiLiL-.Li that direction, has over given such an account, of it as 
tallies with the traditions of the Hindus or resembles 
them* In fact, there is no tradition which makes the 
thing appear to us more possible (than it is according 
to the reports of the 1 find us). The name Laiddi, how- 
ever, makes me think of something entirely different;, 


CHAPTER XXX. 


via, that the clove is called kivanfj, because it is im- 
ported ffom a country called Langa. According to the 
uniform report of nil sailors, the ships which are sent 
to this country land their cargo in boats, viz, ancient 
Western denars and various kinds of merchandise, 
striped Indian cloth. Fait, and other usual articles of 
trade. These wares are deposited on the shore on 
leather sheets, each of which is marked with the name 
o f its o wn er t The re n p< jil th e mer chat 1 1 s reti re to t.h eir 
ships. On the following day they find the sheets 
covered with cloves by way of payment, little or much, 
as the natives happen to own. 

The people with whom this trade is carried on are 
demons according to somr, savage men according to 
others. 

The Hindus who are the neighbours of those regions 
(of Lanka) believe that the small -pox is a wind blowing 
from the island of Lanka towards the continent to carry 
off souls. According to one report, some men warn 
people beforehand of the blowing of this wind, and can 
exactly tell at what times it will reach the different 
parts of the country. After the email -pox has broken 
out, they recognise from certain signs whether it is 
virulent or not. Against the virulent small-pox they 
use a method of treatment by which they destroy only 
one single limb of the body, but do not kill. They 
use us medicine cloves, which they give to the patient 
to drink, together with gold-dust ; and, besides, the 
males tie the cloves, which are similar to date-kernels, 
to their necks. If these precautions are taken, per- 
haps nine people out of ten will h© proof against this 
malady. 

All this makes me think that the Lanka which the 
Hindus mention is identical with the clove-country 
Langa-, though their descriptions do not tally. How- 
ever, there is no communication kept up with the latter, 
for people say that, when perchance a merchant is left 


A certain 
wind -sifc the 

s.md] f.pnx , 


P.-LK-e civ., 


A LB ER UN PS INDIA. 


310 

behind on this island, there is no more trace found of 
him* And this my conjecture is strengthened by the 
fact that, according to the book of Hama and KamSyana, 
behind the well-known country of Sindh there are 
cannibals. And, on the other hand, it is well known 
among all seamen that cannibalism is the cause of the 
savagery and bestiality of the inhabit ants of the island 
of Langabalus. 


( 3 " ) 


CHAPTER XXXI. 

ON THAT DIFFERENCE OF VARIOUS PLACES WHICH WE 
CALL THE DIFFERENCE OF LONGITUDE. 

He who ail ns at accuracy in this subject must try to 
determine the distance between the spheres of the meri- 
dians of the two places in question. Muslim astrono- 
mers reckon by equatorial times corresponding to the 
distance between the two meridians, and begin to count 
from one (the western one) of the two places. The 
sum of equatorial minutes which they find is called 
the difference between the two longitudes ; for they con- 
sider as the longitude of each place the distance of its 
meridian from the graft circle passing through the pole 
of the equator, which has been chosen as the limit of 
the oifcavpttm], and for this first meridian they have 
chosen the western (not the eastern) limit of the qUqv- 
It is all the same whether these equatorial times, 
whatsoever their number for each meridian may be, are 
reckoned as 360th parts of a circle, or an its 6otli parts, 
so as to correspond to the dtt$-tfiinules f or as farmkh 
or yojttna. 

The Hindus employ in this subject methods which 
do not rest on the same principle as ours. They are 
totally different ; and howsoever different they are, it is 
perfectly clear that none of them hits the right mark. 
As we (Muslims) note for each place its longitude, the 
Hindus note the number of yojanas of its distance from 
the meridian of Uj&im And the more to the west the 
position of a place is, the greater Is the number of 


On the 
IlinrliL 
luulliod of 
determining 


312 


ALBERUNFS INDIA . 


On the pi iv 
cuml'eara-nce 
nf ihn ^LM.h r 


i oil 

Quo^U-iouts 
from lii* 
A’^ct »'/«- 
i'ArLUiJi+Jtt 
jLti'i the 

■ 

titit&fl. 


yojanm ; the more to the east it is, the smaller is this 
ti timber. They call it dd&ntara, i.a the difference between 
the places. Further, they multiply the deMnt&ta by 
the mean daily motion of the planet (the sunk ami 
divide the product by 4800. Then the quotient repre- 
sents that amount of the motion of the star which 
correspond & to the number of yojunft in question* i~f- 
that which must be added to the mean place of the sun, 
as it has been found for moon or midnight of Ujaiti* if 
yon want to find the longitude of the place in question. 

The number which they as© as divisor (4800) is the 
number of the yqfanas of the circumference of the earth* 
for the difference between the spheres of the meridians 
of the two places stands in the same relation to the 
whole circa inference of the earth as the mean motion 
of the planet, (sun) from on© place to the other to its 
whole daily rotation round the earth. 

If the circumference of the earth is 4800 pqjanm, the 
diameter is nearly 1 527 ; but Pulisa reckons it as 1600, 
Brahmagupta as T 5 8 r yojanm , each of which is equal 
to eight miles* The same value is given in the astro- 
nomical handbook Al-arl'and as 105a This number, 
however, is, according to I bn Tank, the radius, whilst 
the diameter is 2 1 GO yojcma,% each yajnna being reck- 
oned as equal to four miles, and tli© circumference is 
stated as 6596^ yojanas, 

Brahmagupta uses 4800 as the number of yojanm 
of the earth's circumference iu his canon Khmula- 
khiidyahy-i but in the amended edition he uses, instead 
of this, the eo-vveded circumference, agreeing with Pulisa* 
The correction he propounds is this, that he multiplies 
the yojanas of the earth’s circumference by the sines of 
the complement of the latitude of the place, and divides 
the product by the sinus totu$ ; then the quotient is 
the cm'-recied circumference of the earth, or the number 
of yojanm of the parallel circle of the place in question. 
Sometimes tills number is called the collar of the mm- 


CHAPTER XX XL 




(Han-. Hereby people are frequently misled to think 
that the 4800 yojanrn are the corrected circn inference 
for the city of Ujain. If we calculate it (according to 
Brahmagupta’s correction), we find the latitude of Ujain 
to bo 16 \ degrees, whilst- in reality it is 24 degrees. 

The author of the canon Karana-iilaht makes this 
correction in the following way. Ho multiplies the 
diameter o! the earth by 12 and divides the product 
by the equinoctial shadow of the place. The gnomon 
stands in the same relation to this shadow as the radius 
of the parallel circle of the place to the sine of the lati- 
tude of the place, not. to the sinus loins. Evidently I he 
author of this method thinks that we have here the 
same kind of equation as that which the Hindus call The*^*. 

■ i 1 t j . ttnu 1'jm 

I'l/odatrairmika, i.e, the places with the retrograde mot-urn, 

A11 example of it is the following. 

If the price of a harlot of i 5 years be, e.g. 10 denars, 
how much will it be when she is 40 years old ? 

The method is this, that you multiply the first number 
by the second (15 X 10 = 150), and divide the pro^ 
duct by the third number (150 : 40 - 3 1 ). Then the 
quotient or fourth number is her price when she has 
become old, viz. denars. 

Now the author of the Kff.rana^tilal m a 7 after having 
found that the straight shadow increases with the lati- 
tude, whilst the diameter of the circle decreases, thought, 
according to the analogy of the just mentioned calcula- 
tion, that between this increase and decrease there is a 
certain ratio. Therefore he maintains that the diameter 
of the circle decreases, ’ie. becomes gradually smaller 
than the diameter of the earth, at the same rate as the 
straight shadow increases. Thereupon he calculates the 
corrected circumference from the corrected diameter. 

A f ter bavin g th u s f on nd tli e Ion gitu din al d i flferen ce 
between two places, lie observes a lunar eclipse, and 
fixes in day-minutes the difference between the time of 
its appearance in the two places. Fidisa multiplies 


3 U 


A LEER UNI'S INDIA. 


Cnlculutl ina 
h <i U]<> 

dd/riPI r 1 :?. 
a*fl*rdlia£ to 

AUasArT. 


these day-minutes by the circumference of the earth, 
and divides the product by 6a, viE. the minutes (or 
6oth parts) of the daily revolution. The quotient, 
then, is the number of the yojanas of the distance 
between the two places* 

This calculation ls correct. Tiie result refers to the 
great circle on which Lanka lies. 

Brahmagupta calculates in the same manner, save 
that he multiplies by 4800. The other details have 
already been mentioned. 

As far as this, one clearly recognises what the Hindu 
astronomers aim at, be their method correct or faulty. 
However, we cannot say the same of their calculation of 
the des&nlecru from the latitudes of two different places, 
which is reported by All'azari in his canon in the fol- 
lowing manner : — 

<£ Add together the squares of the sines of the lati- 
tudes of the two places, and take the root of the sum. 
This root is the portion 

ft Further, square the difference of these two sines 
and add it to the pariio* Multiply the sum by 8 and 
divide the product by 377. The quotient, then, is the 
distance between the two places, that is to say, according 
to a rough calculation. 

Further, multiply the difference between the two 
latitudes by the yojemm of the circumference of the 
earth and divide the product by 360.” 

Evidently this latter calculation is nothing but the 
transferring of the difference between the two latitudes 
from the measure of degrees and minutes to the mea- 
sure oi yajanm. Then lie proceeds :■ — 

s ’ Now the square of the quotient is subtracted from 
the square of the roughly calculated dUlamc^ and of 
the remainder you take the root, which represents the 
sirttigh t yojanmN 

Evidently the latter number represents the distance 
between the spheres of the meridians of the two places 


162. 


chapter XXXI. 315 

on the circle of latitude, whilst the roughly calculated 
number is the distance between the two places ill 
longitude. 

This method of calculation is found in the astrono- 
mical handbooks of the Hindus in conformity with the 
account of Aifa^uri, save in one particular* The here- 
in on turned portio is the root of the difference between 
the squares of the sines of the two latitudes, not the 
sum of the squares of the sines of the two latitudes. 

But whatever this method may he, it does not hit the 
right mark. Wo have fully explained it in several of 
our publications specially devoted to this subject, and 
there we have shown that it Is impossible to determine 
the distance between two places and the difference of 
longitude between them by means of their latitudes 
alone, and that only in ease one of these two things is 
known (the distance between two places or the differ- 
ence between the longitudes of them), by this and 
by means of the two latitudes, the third value can be 
found. 

Based on the same principle, the following calcula- 
tion has been found, there being no indication by whom 
it was invented 

fi Multiply the yojmas of the distance between two 
places by Q f and divide the product by {lacuna ) ; the 
root of the difference between its square and the square 
of the difference of the two latitudes. Divide this 
number by 6. Then you get as quotient the number 
of da v- minutes of the difference of the two longi- 
tudes." 

It is clear that the author of tins calculation first- 
takes the distance (between the two places), then he 
reduces it to the measure of the circumference of the 
circle. However, if we invert the calculation and re- 
duce the parts (or degrees) of the great circle to yojaum 
according to his method, wo get the number 3200, i.e. 
jog 7/ojtiita.i less than we have given on the authority of 


The :.n c Hi fa- 
entiu :■(=-: 
thistneU'ifid, 


of the 
dds-’tYitan/. 


A. ffritidata 

i'jf Afy.'i,- 

bhftjA of 

Ku-Vim iv- 
pur a. on the 
mei-Lithiii of 
Ujatn. 


Ou the lati- 
tude of 
Ujain. 


316 ALBERUNPS INDIA. 

Al-arkand ( Vh p, 312), The double of ft, 6400, cornea 
near the number mentioned by Ibn Tarik (i.e. 659 
v. p. 312), being only about; 200 smaller. 

We ah all now give the latitudes of some places, as we 
hold, them to be correct. 

All canons of the Hindus agree in this that the line 
connecting Lanka with Meru divides the oIkov^vv^ 
lengthways in two halves, and that it passes through 
the city of Ujain, the fortress of liohhaka, the river 
Yamuna, the plain of Tuneshar, and the Cold Moun- 
tains. The longitudes of the places are measured by 
their distance from this line. On this head 1 know of 
no difference between them except the following pas- 
sage in the book of Aryabhata of Knsmnapnra: — 

c< People say that Knrukahetra, ij\ the plain of 
r J aneshar, lies on the line which connects Lanka with 
Mem and passes through Ujain. So they report on 
the authority of Pulisa, But he was much too intelli- 
gent not to have known the subject better. The times 
of the eclipses prove that statement to be erroneous, 
aud Prithnsvamin maintains that the difference be- 
tween the longitudes of Kumkshefera and Ujain is 120 
yajanas” 

These are the words of Aryabhata. 

Ya kub Ibn Tarik says in his book entitled The Com- 
position of the Spheres, that the latitude of Ujain is 4? 
degrees, but he does not say whether it lies in the north 
or the south. Besides, he states it, on the authority of 
the book Al-Jrkand, to be 4$ degrees, We, however, 
have found a totally different latitude of Ujain in 
the same book in a calculation relating to the distance 
between Ujain and A 1 mans Lira, which the author calls 
UrahmanavatLi, i.e. Bamhanwd,, viz, latitude of Ujain. 
22 ' 2Q / ; latitude of Alrnansfira, 24° i / . 

According to the same boob, the straight shadow in 
Loh&niyye, i.e, Loharfini, is 5* digits. 


CHAPTER XXXI. 


V 7 


On the other hand, however, all the canons of the 
Hindus agree in this* that the latitude of Ujain is 24 
degrees, and that the sim culminates over it at the time 
of the summer solstice, 

Balabhadra* the commentator, gives as the latitude 
of Kanoj 2 6' 35'; as that of Tanesbar, 30° I 2 f . 

The learned Abu -Ah mad, the sou of Cat-1 aghtag in, 
calculated the latitude of the city of Kuril (?), and 
found it to be 28° o\ that of Taneshar 2 7', and both 
places to be distant from each other by three clays' 
marches. What the cause of this difference is I do 
not know. 

According to the book Karana-mra^ the latitude of 
Kashmir is 34!"' Q\ and the straight shadow there 8-^v 
digits. 

I myself have found the latitude of the fortress 
Lauhur to be 34° io\ The distance from Lauhur to 
the capital of Kashmir is 56 miles, half the way being 
ragged country, the other half plain. What other lati- 
tudes I have been able to observe myself, I shall 
enumerate in this place: — - 


Gh&ma . 3 f 35" 

'Kabul .... 33*47' 

ILdttdi, llie guard -station 

Df tho |>rinee » * 33 : 55' 

Duupfir* . , < 34° 20 ' 


LamgMn 
Furah&var „ 

Waihand 
rjailam a 

Tbe fortress Nandna 


■ 34" 43 ' 

- 34* 44 r 

- 34 r 30' 
, 33° 20' 

■ 3 *' J o' 


The distance between the latter place and Multan is 
nearly 2QO miles. 


S&lkot . . . . . .32* 

Mandakkakor . . . . , ji^o' 

Mnltin 29 s 40 ' 

If the latitudes of places are known, arid the distances 
between them have been measured, the difference be- 
tween their longitudes also may be found according to 
the methods explained in the books to which we have 
referred the reader. 


1 


3 ^ 


A LEE RUNES INDIA. 


We ourselves hayo (in our travels) in their country 
not passed beyond the places which we have mentioned „ 
nor have we learned any more longitudes and latitudes 
{of places in India) from their literature. It God 
alone who helps us to reach our objects ! 


( 3itJ i 


CHAPTER XXXII. 

OK THE NOTIONS OF DURATION AND TIME IN GENERAL, 

AND ON THE CREATION OF THE WORLD AND ITS 
DESTRUCTION* 

AccOKPiNG to the relation of Muhammad I bn Zaka- on the no* 
rivyfi Alrazi, the most ancient philosophers of the McaHiji^bo 
Greeks thought that the following five things existed utJior piLiu> 
from all eternity, the creator , the universal s&itl, the first lilu ' 
vXi) t space in the abstract, and time in the abstract. On 
these things A l rad has founded that theory of his, 
which is at the bottom of his whole philosophy. 

Further, he distinguishes between lime and duration 
in so far as number applies to the former, not to the 
latter : for a thing which can be numbered is finite, 
whilst duration is. infinite. Similarly, philosophers 
have explained time as duration with a beginning and 
an end, and eternity as duration without beginning and 
end. 

According to Almzi, those five things are necessary 
postdates of the actually existing world. For that 
which the senses perceive in it is the uAq acquiring 
shape by means of combination* Besides, the vX^ 
occupies some place, and therefore we must admit the 
existence of space. The changes apparent in the world 
of sense compel us to assume the existence of time, for 
some of them are earlier, others later, and the hefi/n 
and the after wards, the earlier and the later 1 , and the 
simultaneous can only bo perceived by means of the 


320 


A LB BRUNTS INDIA. 


Fy^e iS^, 


TJle H^qsi 

uf Hiiuli.1 

jVlusra cm 
lime. 


notion of time, which is a necessary postulate of the 
existing world. 

Farther, there are livvntj beings in the existing world. 
Therefore we must assume the existence of the souL 
Among these living beings there are kiidlvjm-L ones, 
capable of carrying the arts to the highest perfection ; 
and this compels us to assume the existence of a 
Creator, who is wise and intelligent, who establishes 
and arranges everything in the best possible manner, 
and inspires people with the force of intelligence for 
the purpose of liberation. 

On the other hand, some sophists consider eternity 
and time as one and the same thing, and declare the 
motion which serves to measure time alone to be finite. 

Another one declares eternity to be the circular 
motion. No doubt this motion is indissolubly con- 
nected with that being which moves by it, and which 
is of the most sublime nature, since it lasts for ever. 
Thereupon lie rises in his argumentation from the 
moving being to its mover, and from the moving mover 
to the first mover who is motionless. 

This kind of research is very subtle and obscure. 
But for this, the opinions would not differ to such an 
extent that some people declare that there is no time 
at all, while others declare that time is an independent, 
substance. According to Alexander of Aphrodisias, 
Aristotle gives in his book r UvrihA) dtepiao-t? the follow- 
ing argumentation : “ Everything moving is moved by 
a mover;” and Cal onus says on the same subject that 
he could not understand the notion of time, much less 
prove it. 

The theory of the Hindus on this subject Is rather 
poor in thought and very little developed, Varilliamb 
hira says in the opening of his book Samhitd, when 
speaking of that which existed from all eternity; It 
1ms been said in the ancient books that the first 
primeval thing was darkness, which is not identical 


CHAPTER XXXI L 


33i 

with the black colour, but a kind of non-existencc like 
the state of a sleeping person. Then God created this 
world for Brahman as a cupola For him. He made it 
to consist of two parts, a higher and a lower one, and 
placed the sun and moon in it,” Kapila declares: 

“ Mod has always existed, and with him the world, with 
all its substances and bodies. He, however, is a cause 
to the world, and rises by the subtlety of his nature 
above the gross nature of the world.” Eurnbhaka 
says: 4 "The primeval one is M^JiMhuta, i.e, the com- 
pound of the live elements. Some declare that the 
primeval thing is lime, others nature, and still others 
maintain that the director is karrtum, i.e. action. 2 ' 

In the book Vishw it.-Bh arma, Yajra speaks to ^ f fir- 
kandeya : ic Explain to me the times ; ” whereupon the 
latter answers : Duration is dtmaqnimshaf i.e. a 
hreathf and purusha, which means the lord of the uni- 
imrse. Thereupon, he commenced explain ing to him 
the divisions of time and their dominants, just as we 
have propounded these* things in detail in the proper 
chapters (chap, xxxiii. ti seq.}* 

The Hindus have divided duration into two periods* 
a period of motion, which has been determined as time, 
nand a period of red. which can be determined only in 
an imaginary way according to the analogy of that 
which lias first been determined, the period of motion. 

The Hindus hold the eternity of the Creator to bo 
deter minabt&i not measurable, since It is infinite- We, 
however* cannot refrain from remarking that it is 
extremely difficult to imagine a thing which is deter- 
mismhle but not measurable, and that the whole idea 
is very far-fetched. We shall here communicate so 
much as will suffice for the reader of the opinions of 
the Hindus on this subject, as far as we know them. 

TI i e co tut pi on u ot ioT i of ihe Hindus regard ing c reat io 1 1 t i w Duy ■ ^ 
is a popular otil\ for, as we have already mentioned, per kirl u 1 
they believe matter to be eternal. Therefore, they do Ni^WiV’ 

YOL. I t X 


3^2 


A LEER UN PS INDIA , 


Brahman » 

pfirtry] nf 
nan-area- 
tfon. 


not, by the word 'U’tffiiicn, understand rc ybrwr^'hm of 
something out of nothing* They mean by creation only 
the working with a piece of clay, working out various 
combinations and figures in it, and making such arrange- 
ments with it as will lead to certain ends and aims 
which are potentially in it. For this reason they at- 
tribute the creation to angels and demons, nay, even 
to human beings, who create either because they carry 
out some legal obligation which afterwards proves 
beneficial for tile creation, or because they intend to 
alky their passions after having become envious and 
ambitious. So, for instance, they relate that Vkva- 
nutra, the Rtshi, created the buffaloes for this purpose, 
that mankind should enjoy all the good and useful 
things which they aiford. All this reminds one of the 
words of Plate in the book Timmus : t; Tlie Beot s i.c+ 
the gods, who, according to an order of their father, 
carried out the creation of man, took an immortal soul 
and made it the beginning; thereupon they fashioned 
like a tumor a mortal body upon it,*' 

Here in this context we meet with a duration of time 
which Muslim authors, following the example of the 
Hindus, call the years of the 10 orki. People think that 
at their beginnings and endings creation and destruc- 
tion take place as kinds of new formations. This, 
however, is not the belief of the people at large. Ac- 
cording to them, this duration is a day of Brahman 
and a consecutive night of Brahman ; for Brahman is 
intrusted with creating. Further, the corning into 
existence is a motion in that which grows out of some- 
thing different from itself, and the most apparent of 
the causes of this motion are the meteoric motors, i.e. 
the stars. These, however, will never exercise regular 
influences on the world below them unless they move 
and change their shapes in every direction (= their 
aspects)* Therefore the coming into existence is limited 
fo the day of Brahman^ because in it only, as the 


CHAPTER XI XXII. 323 

Hindus believe, tie stars are moving and their spheres 
revolving accord mg to their pre-established order, and 
in consequence the process of coming into existence 
is developed on the surface of the earth without any 
interruption* 

On the contrary, during the night of Brahnion the 
spheres rest, from their motions, and all the stars, as 
well as their apsides and nodes* stand still in one 
particular place* 

In consequence all the affairs of the earth are in one 
an A t h e sa m e 11 n chang t n g condi 1 1 on , th erefore th ©coming 
into existence has ceased, because he who makes things 
cotne into existence rests. So both the processes of act- 
ing and of being acted upon are suspended ; the elements 
rest from entering into new metamorphoses and com 
bi nations, as they rest now in (lacuna ; perhaps : the 
night), and they prepare themselves to belong to new 
beings, which will come into existence on the following 
day of Brahman, 

in this way existence circulates during the life of 
Brahman t a subject which we shall propound in its 
proper place. 

According to these notions of the Hindus, creation 
and destruction only refer to the surface of the earth. 
By such a creation, not one piece of clay comes into 
existence which did not- exist before, and by such a 
destruction not one piece of clay which exists ceases to 
exist. It is quite impossible that the Hindus should 
have the notion of a creation as long as they believe 
that matter existed from all eternity. 

The Hindus represent to their common people the 
two durations here mentioned, tho day of Brahman and 
the night of Brahman, as his waking and sleeping ; and 
we do not disapprove of these terms, as they denote 
something which lias a beginning and end. Further, 
the whole of the life of Brahman, consisting of a sue- 


Pj^C 1 (5s. 


CriUejU 
remark of 
the author* 


Hr ;t] mi am 1 a 
wnkinff and 
Bleeping, 


3-4 


A LB BRUNTS INDIA. 


V ilTjjfAr lUid 
Kcientifie 
notions mm 
t. :e glwp nf 
J ^Z'.'LlI 1 1 1 ■ L 3 i , 


cession of motion and rest in the world during such a 
period, is considered as applying only to existence, not 
to non-existence, since during it the piece of clay exists 
and, besides, also its shape. The lift: of JJr&hwmn is only 
a day for that being who is above him, i.e. F crush a (qf. 
ch ap - xxxv r .) . W hen he d ie s al 1 compou n d s are d issol ve c 1 
d n r in g his nigh t, and in con saq n on ce o f til e an n i h il at i on 
of the compounds, that also is suspended which kept 
him (Brahman) within the laws of nature. This, then, 
is th 0 rest of Pnrusha, and of all that is under ids 
control (liL and. of his vehicles). 

When common people describe these things, they 
make the night of Brahman follow after the night of 
Piirusha ; and as Punish a is the name for a man. they 
attribute to him sleeping and waking. They derive 
destruction from his snoring, in consequence of which 
all things that hang together break asunder, and 
everything standing is drowned In the sweat of his 
forehead. And more of the like they produce, tilings 
which the mind declines to accept, and the ear refuses 
to hear. 

Therefore the educated Hindus do not share these 
opinions (regarding the waking and sleeping of Brah- 
man), for they know the real nature of sleep. They know 
that the body, a compound of antipathetic humores, 
requires sleep for the purpose of resting, and for this 
purpose that all which nature requires, after being 
wasted t should be duly replaced. So, in consequence 
of the constant dissolution, the body requires food in 
order to replace that which had been lost by emacia- 
tion. Further, it requires cohabitation for the purpose 
of perpetuating the species by the body, as without 
cohabitation the species would die out.. Besides, the 
body requires other things, evil ones, but. necessary, 
while simple substances can dispense with them, as 
also He can who is above them, like to whom there is 
nothing. 


CHAPTER XXXI L 


325 

Further* the Hindus maintain that the world will 
perish in consequence of the con junction of the twelve 
suns, which appear one after the other in the different 
months, ruining the earth by burning and calcining it, 
and by withering and drying up all moist substances. 
Further, the world perishes in consequence of the union 
of the four rains which now come down in the different 
Reasons of the year ■ that which has been calcined attracts 
the water and is thereby dissolved. Lastly, the world 
perishes by the cessation of light and by the prevalence 
of darkness and non-existence* By all this the world 
will be dissolved into atoms and bo scattered. 

The Matxyar Partin, a says that the fire winch burns 
the world has come out of the water ; that- until then it 
dwelt on Mount Mahtsha in the KinluvDvipa, and was 
called by the name of this mountain, 

the Vishnu- lamina says that Mabarl oka lies above 
the pole, and that the duration of the stay there is one 
kalpa, When the three worlds burn, the fire and 
smoke injure the inhabitants, and then they rise and 
emigrate to Jan al oka, the dwelling-place of the sons of 
Brahman , who preceded creation, viz, San aka, San an da, 
Sauandaiiilda (?)* Asuras, Kapiku Vodhti, and Panda- 
sSikha.” 

The context of these passages makes it clear that 
this destruction of the world takes place at the end of a 
kttlpa, and hence is derived the theory of Abft-Mnshar 
thal a deluge takes place at the conjunction of the 
planets, because, in fact, they stand in conjunction at 
the eml of each £atm m y$ign and at the beginning of each 
kaliynga* If this conjunction is not a complete one, 
the deluge, too, will evidently not attain the highest 
degree of its destructive power. The farther we advance 
in the investigation of these subjects, the more light 
will be shed on all ideas of this kind, and the better 
the reader will understand all words and terms occur- 
ring in this context* 


Notions t\> 
giit-dlntr the 
end nf ilic 
world r 


166. 


.Vbu- M;i' - 
ali;ir 
] iiduui 
theories. 


Pliddhist 

HUfcjUllfl 

froffl 

Al&r&u* 

shivhfj. 


326 ALBBRUNPS INDIA , 

A 1 £ r final 1 ah ri records a tradition , as representing the 
belief of the Buddhists, which 'much resembles the silly 
tales just mentioned. On the sides of Mount Mem 
there are four worlds, which are alternately civilised or 
desert, A world becomes desert when it is overpowered 
by the fire, in consequence of the rising of seven suns, 
one after the other, over it, when the water of the 
fountains dries up, and the burning lire becomes so 
strong as to penetrate into the world, A world becomes 
civilised when the fire leaves it and migrates to another 
world - after it has left, a strong wind rises in the world, 
drives the clouds, and makes them rain, so that, the 
world becomes like an ocean. Out of its foam shells 
are produced, with which the souls are connected, and 
out of these human beings originate when the water 
3 las s unk into t h e gr ound, So n 1 e Bn d d h i s ts th i 1 1 k tl j at 
a man comes by accident from the perishing world to 
the growing world * Since he feels unhappy on account 
of his being alone, out of ins thought there arises a 
spouse, and from this couple generation commences. 


( 3^7 ) 


CHAPTER XXXIII. 

ON THE VARIOUS RiftDS OF THE DAY OR N YCHTIIE MEROK , 
AND ON DAT AND NIGHT IN PARTICULAR. 

According to the general usage of Muslims, Hindus, 
and others ? a day or u yell the moron means the dura- 
tion of one revolution of the sun in a rotation of the 
univet'se, in which he starts from the one half of a 
yrcal circle and returns to the saute. Apparently it is 
divided into two halves; the day (if, the time of the 
gun’s being visible to the inhabitants of a certain place 
on earth), and the myM (ic. the time of his being in- 
visible to them). His being visible and being invisible 
are relative facts, which differ as the horizons differ. 
It is well known that the horizon of the equator, which 
the Hindus call the country without latitude, cuts the 
circles parallel to the meridian in two halves. In con- 
sequence, day and nigh I are always equal there. How- 
ever. the horizons which cut. the parallel circles without 
passing through their pole divide them into two un- 
equal halves, the more so the smaller the parallel circles 
a v e. I ] 1 con s equ e u ce, the re d ay an d night; a re u ne r f u al , 
except at the times of the two equinoxes, when on the 
whole earth, except Me-iu and Vaclav slni.uk ha, day and 
night are equal. Then all the places north and south 
of the line share in this peculiarity of the line, but only 
at this time, not at any other. 

The beginning of the day is the sun’s rising above 
the horizon, the beginning of the night his disappearing 
below it, The Hindus consider the day as the first, the 


ncfLnitiuu 
of day and 
night: 


ManiifthyA- 

laoTfifcra, 


F».gT2 iOj. 


T.I ;l JP Of tlift 


32B ALBBRUNVS INDIA . 

night as the second, part of the nychthemeron. There- 
fore they call the former Sdra-m, i.e+ a day depending 
on the rising of the sum Besides., they call it Jllanu- 
shy&horiUm, ie. a human day, because, in fact, the great 
mass of their people do not know any other kind of day 
b 1 1 1 tl 1 is. Now , assuming tli e Sd m n a to be k now n to 
the reader, we shall in the following use it as a standard 
and gauge, in order thereby to determine all the other 
kinds of days. 

After ike human day follows Pitrfoiam alwrdt-m, ?> + 
the nychthemeron of the forefathers, whose spirits, 
according to the belief of the Hindus, dwell in the 
sphere of the moon. Its day and night depend upon 
light and darkness, not upon the rising and setting in 
relation to a certain horizon. When the moon stands 
in the highest parts of the sphere with reference io 
them, this is a day to them j and when it stands in the 
lowest parts, it is night to them. Evidently their moon 
is the time of conjunction or full moon, and their mid- 
night is opposition or new moon, Therefore the nych- 
themeron of the forefathers is a complete lunar month, 
the day beginning at the time of half- moon, when the 
light on the moon’s body begins to increase, and the 
night beginning at the time of half- moon, when her 
light begins to wane. This follows of necessity from 
the just-mentioned determination of the noon and mid- 
night of the nychthemeron of the forefathers* Besides, 
it may be brought near to the reader by a comparison* 
as the bright half of the light on the moon’s body may 
be compared to the rising of half of the globe of the 
sun over the horizon, and the other half’s setting below 
the horizon. The day of this nychthemeron extends 
from the last quarter of a month to the first quarter of 
the succeeding month ; the night from the first to the 
second quarter of one identical month. The totality 
of these two halves is the nychthemeron of the fore- 
fathers. 


CHAPTER XXXIII. 


329 


Tims the subject is explained by the author of Vi&hn n- 
Dkarma both at large and in detail, but afterwards he 
treats it a second time with very little understanding, 
and identifies the day of the forefathers with the black 
half of the month from opposition to conjunction, and 
their night with its white half, whilst the correct state- 
ment is that which vv e h a v e j n st men tic n ed * r Hi \ a vi e w 
is also con finned by their custom of offering gifts of 
food to the forefathers on the day of conjunction, for 
they explain noon to be the time of taking food. For 
(his reason they offer food to the forefathers at the 
same time when they themselves take it. 

Next follows the Ihiy/dh-ordlra,. i.e. the nychtheraeron ny af Us® 
of the angels. If is known that the horizon of the 
greatest latitude, ix. that of 90 degrees, where the pole 
stands in the zenith, is the equator, not exactly, but 
approximately, because it is a little below the visible 
horizon for that place on earth which is occupied by 
Mount Menu; for its top and slopes the horizon in 
question and the equator may be absolutely identical, 
although the visible horizon lies a little below it (i*e< 
farther south). Further, it is evident that the zodiac 
is divided into two halves by being intersected by the 
equator, the one half lying above the equator (ix, north 
of it), the second half below it. As long as the sun 
marches in the signs of northern declination it revolves 
like a mill, since the diurnal arcs which he describes 
are parallel to the horizon, as in the case of the sun- 
dials. For those who live under the north pole the 
sun appears above the horizon, therefore they have day, 
whilst for those living under the south pole the sun is 
concealed below the horizon, and therefore they have 
n i gh t . Wh en , tb eit 3 ihe sun mi grate s to th 0 sou t.f ten 1 ias« 

signs, he revolves like a mill below the horizon (ix. 
south of the equator); hence it is night to the people 
living under the north pole and day to those living 
under the south pole. 


ALBERUNPS INDIA t 


33 ° 

The dwellings of the Demi ca. i.e. the spiritual beings 
are under the two poles ; therefore this kind of day 
is called by their name, i.e. the nych theme r on of the 
Dmx> 

Aryabhata of Knsucmpura says that the Bey a see 
one half of the solar year, the Danavu the other ; that 
the Pita r as see one half of the lunar month* human 
beings the other. So one revolution of the sun in ihe 
zodiac affords clay and night both to the Deva and 
Danava, and their totality is a nychthemeron. 

In consequence our year is identical with the liych- 
themeron of the Deva. In it, however, day and night 
are not equal (as in the nyeldhemeron of the fore- 
fathers)* because the sun moves slowly in the half of 
the northern declination about its apogee, by which the 
day becomes a little longer. However, this difference 
i not equal to the difference between the visible horizon 
and the real one* for this cannot be observed on the 
globe of the sun. Besides, according to Hindu notions, 
the inhabitants of those places are raised above the 
surface of the earth, dwelling on Mount Menu Who- 
ever holds this view holds regarding the height of Meru 
the same opinions as those we have described in the 
proper place (in chap. xxiiL). In consequence of this 
height of Mount Mem, its horizon must fall a little 
lower (ie* more southward than the equator), and in 
consequence the rate of the day’s being longer than the 
night is lessened (as then the sun does not entirely 
reach his northern apogee, where he makes the longest 
days). If this were anything else but simply a reli- 
gious tradition of the Hindus, besides being one regard- 
ing which even they do not agree among themselves, 
we should try to find, by astronomical calculation, the 
amount of this depression of the horizon of Mount 
Meru below the equator, but as there is no use in this 
subject (Mount Meru being simply an invention), we 
drop it. 


CHAPTER X XXIH. 


33i 


Sonne uneducated Hindu heard people speak of the 
day of Fill cl i a nycht.hemeron in the north, and of its 
night in the sou tin In connection with these elements 
he determined the two parts of the year by the two 
halves of the zodiac, the one which ascends from the 
winter sols I ice, called the northern, and the one which 
descends from the summer solstice, called the southern. 

Then he identified the day of this ny eh them eron with 
the ascending half, and its night with the descending 
half. All of which he has eternised in his books. 

Not much better is what the author of the Vishnu- 
BJi a? 'm a say s : — s ‘ The h al f beg i n x \ i n g w it h Capricorn n s 
h the day of the A$ura t Le. the Danavas,, and their 
night begins with the sign of Cancer/’ Previously he 
had said: “ The half beginning with Aries is the day 
of the Deva*” This author acted without any under- 
standing of the subject, for he simply confounds the 
two poles with each other (for according to this theory 
the half of the surds revolution, beginning with Capri- 
corn us or the winter solstice, would be the day of the 
beings under the north pole or the Devas, not. that, of 
the beings under the south pole or As liras, and the 
revolution of the sun beginning with Cancer or the 
summer solstice would be the day of the A suras, not 
their night)- If this author had really understood the 
sentence, and had known astronomy, he would have 
come to other conclusions. 

Next follows the Ihakw/thordira, i.e. the nych theme- nay of Envi- 
ron of Brahman. It is not derived from light and dark- 
ness (as that of the forefathers), nor from the appearing 
or disappearing of a heavenly body (like that of the 
Devas), but from the physical nature of created things, 
iu consequence of which they move in the day and rest 
in the night. The length of the nycht.hemeron of 
Brahman is S, 640 . 000, 000 of our years. During one 
half of it, i.e. during the day, the aether, with all that 
is in It* is moving, the earth is producing, and the 


PsISQ r6g. 


Uity ti 
l K nmsJia. 


332 A LB BRUNTS INDIA , 

changes of existence and destruction arc constantly 
going on upon the surface of the earth. During the 
other half, i.e. the night, there occurs the opposite of 
everything which occurs in the day ; the earth is not 
changing, because those things which produce the 
changes are resting and all motions are stopped, as 
nature rests in the night and in the winter, and con- 
centrates. itself, preparing for a new existence in the 
day and in the summer. 

Each day of Bralnuan is a Icalpa, as also each night, 
and a lealpet is that space of time which Muslim authors 
call the year 0/ the Sindh in (L 

Lastly follows the l > ari$kdhtrrdtm i i + e. the nychthe- 
meron of the All -soul, which is also called Mahdlcalpa y 
i r e, tl 1 a grea te st lea If a , f VI 10 Hindus on ly use it for the 
purpose of determining duration in general by some- 
thing like a notion of time, but do not specify it as 
day and night, I almost feel inclined to think that 
the day of this nych the meron. means Dm duration of 
the eonUe being connected with the (iA-tj, whilst the 
night means the duration of their being separated from 
each other, and of the resting of the souls (from the 
fatigue of being mixed up with the uAtj), and that that 
condition which necessitates the soul's being connected 
with the ijAjj or its being separated from the l1a>j reaches 
its periodical end at the end of this nychtheuierou. 
The Vishrae-JJharma says: “ The life of Brahman is 
the day of Pur 11 si \ a, and the night of Pnrusha has the 
same length. 3 ' 

The Hindus agree in assigning to the life of Brahman 
a hundred of his years. The number of our years which 
corresponds to one of his years betrays itself to be a 
multiplication of 360 with the number of our years, 
which correspond to one nyeh the meron of his. We 
have already mentioned (p, 331) the length of the 
nychthemeron of Brahman, Now the length of a year 
of Brahman is 3,110,400,000,000 of our years (i,j\ 


CHAPTER XXX HI. 


333 


360 X 8,640*000,000). A hundred years of the same 
kind, reckoned in our years, are represented by the 
same number increased by two ciphers* so that you got 
in the whole ten ciphers, viz. 31 1 >040* 000. .000,000. 
This space of time is a day of F u rush a ; therefore Ills 
nychthemeron is double of it, viz, 62 2,oSo,OQO, 000,000 
of our years. 

According to the Pulim -Sirfdh dnta, t.he life of Brah- 
man is a day of Furusha, However, it has also been 
mentioned that a day of Pumsha is a par&rdhalcalpiL 
Other Hindus say that pardrdhahaljta is the dw/ofkha, 
La. the point, by which they mean the first mvM t on 
which all existence depends. The bdpa occupies the 
eighteenth place in the scale of the degrees of the- num- 
bers (see p. 173). It is called jxir&rdlui, which means 
ih a half of hmreu. Now, the double of this would 
be l he -whole of heaven and the whole nychthemeron. 
Therefore kha is represented by the number 864, fol- 
lowed by twenty-four ciphers* this number representing 
mr years (cf p. 331). 

These terms must, on the whole, be rather considered 
as a philosophical means of conveying an abstract 
notion of time than as mathematical values composed 
of the various kinds of numbers, for they are derived 
from the processes of combination and dissolution, of 
I y rocFQati 0 n an d d estruc ft u n . 


/ 


riinWrtli-.L. 

kul [Jfl.. 


( 334 ) 


0 Luit.L 


CiielmkiL. 

I'agpc T 70- 


CH AFTER XXXIV, 

OK THE DIVISION OF THE NY CUT IT EM RRQN INTO MIS0U 
PAIITIOLES OF TIME, 

The Hind n a are foolishly painstaking in inventing the 
moat minute particles of time, but their efforts have 
not resulted in a universally adopted and uniform 
system. On. the contrary , yon hardly ever meet with 
two books or two men representing the subject iden- 
tically. In the first instance, the nyehthemeroin is 
divided into sixty minutes or fjhatL We read in the 
book Srtldhara by Utpala the Kashmirian: ‘If you 
boro in a piece of wood a cylindrical hole of twelve 
lingers’ diameter and six fingers 5 height, it contains three 
tit and water. If you bore in the bottom of this hole 
another hole as large as six plaited hairs of the hair of a 
young woman, not of an old one nor of a child, the three 
mrmd of water will flow ont through this hole in one 
ffhati” 

Each minute is divided into sixty seconds* called 
emit aka or caUmka, and also righa f iled. 

Each second is divided into six parts or pr&na , 
br eat 1 1 . T1 j e a bo v e-m ent ione d bo o k , Sriltl h a m , ex pi a in s 
the prdno- m the following manner: fi It is the breath 
of a sleeping person who sleeps a normal sleep, and not 
like a man who is ill, who suffers from retention of the 
urine, who is hungry, or has eaten too much, whose 
mind is occupied with some sorrow or pain ; for the 
breath of a sleeping person varies according to the 


chapter xxxiv. 


335 

conditions of kis sod, winch originate either from desire 
or fear, according to the conditions of his body, depend- 
ing upon the emptiness or fulness of his stomach, and 
according to various accidents disturbing the kind of 
humor which is considered the most desirable,** 

I t is all the same whether we determine the pr&na 
acc ending to this rule (one njchthemeron = 21,600 
■pvdrtrt^j or if we divide each ghati into 360 parts 
(6q X 360 - 21,600), or each degree of the sphere into 
sixty parts (360 x 60 - 21,600). 

As far as this all Hindus agree with each other in 
the matter, though they use different terms. So, for 
instance, Brahmagupta cabs the mshahr or seconds 
vintidi, likewise Aryabhata of Knsumapum Besides 
the latter calls the minutes uddi. Both, however, did 
not. use particles of time smaller than the prfina, which 
correspond to the minutes of the sphere (60 x 360). 
For Pu'lisa says: <£ The wrimttus of the sphere^ which are 
21,600, resemble the normal breaths of man at the time 
of the equinoxes, and when man Is in perfect health. 
During one breathing of man the sphere revolves as far 
as one minute." 

Other people insert between minute and second a 
third measure, called M. am, which is equal to one- 
fourth of a minute (or fifteen seconds). Each hshaij a 
is divided into fifteen hold, each of which is equal to 
one-sixtieth of a minute, and this is the cash-aka, only 
called by another name. 

Among the lower orders of these fractions of time 
there occur three names which are always mentioned 
in the same sequence. The largest is the nimes'ha, i.e. 
the time during which the eye, in the normal state of 
things, is open between two consecutive looks. The 
lam is the mean, and the trui i the smallest part of 
time, the latter word meaning the cracking of the fore- 
finger against the inside of the thumb, which is with 
them a gesture expressive of astonishment or admira- 


Vthftfll. 


KtUsnm 


Nimtxh.it 
luVii, Lruji. 


KAshtM, 

kali. 


336 ALBERUNPS INDIA . 

lion. The relation between these three measures varies 
very much. According to many of the Hindus — 

1 t. i-jj.fi — 1 Jffm, 

2 lWit — ¥ I l iiiicshit , 

Further, they differ as to the relation between the 
nhmska and the next higher order of fractions of time, 
for according to some the latter (kashtJid) contains 
fifteen, according to others thirty nimesha. Others, 
again, divide each of these three measures into eighths, 
so that' - 

hi truti — 1 lum. 

& l(tm= 1 uim kJml 
!H nimcu.^i = l lybk {hA (fj r 

Idle latter system is used in the book Sr’&dkava, and 
has also been adopted by N If F(?) s one of their learned 
astronomers* 11 e makes this division still more subtle 
by adding a further measure, smaller than the trut.L 
which is called mm, and eight of which are one trufi. 

The next higher orders, parts of time larger than the 
7iwiesha } are Icd&hthd and kald. We have said already 
(p. 33;) that with some Hindus kald is only another 
name for cash aka. and is considered as equal to thirty 
hi fdith d, F ttr th e r — 

i MiA ihA — 1 5 rtun.tuhu, 

I nime&ka - 2 lava. 

1 laid— 2 trufi. 

Others reckon thus — 

1 htM = j^tli minute of the ny ohtl ] l-tcj 0 rou = 30 hhhfh & 

1 Ma/j (hd — 30 nimahd. 

And the further fractions such as those just men- 
tioned. 

Lastly, others reckon thus — 

I cn tuft'd — 6 nwicsha. 

1 fujdfc^/d/j — 3 hunt* 

Hero ends the tradition of Utpala, 


CH A PTE R XXXI K 


337 


According to the Vtibifii-Purana — 

I wNtArtrift = 30 hihh 
1 laid — 30 kfehfh4< 

I hlshfM- — 15 nimesfui* 

Th 0 smaller fractions are disregarded by the Vdyn 
Purdna, 

We have no means of settling the question as to which v^* T7 » 
of these systems is the most, authentic one. Therefore 
it is tlie best for us to adhere to the theory of Utpala 
and S M l r (?) t ixAo divide all measures of time smaller 
than a prdna by eight- — 


1 prdna = S nimeshii, j i hi pvt. — S truti. 

1 mmtxhit — S him. | 1 truti — 8 ttntt , 


The whole system is represented in the following 
table — 


Tbt; EkBUDe&iif the mea- ! 

n«w rristsy time* the 
one as con- 

How nmtiy f-f it nr« con- 

Btire* nf t 4 me. 

tained in the Ijurgcv 

tained in one 1 dii y, 

Ghat 1 , Niu ]3 - . | 

CH1S. 

60 

60 

Kahara . 

4 

240 

Oashaka, Vinftiji t l 
Kalft . . j 

15 

360O 

Prjltiii 

6 

2j 4 6qo 

Nim&sha. 

S 

172,800 

Lava 

S 

1 , 382,400 

Tmti 

8 

11,059.200 

Ariu 

8 

88,473,600 


The Hindus have also a popular kind of division of rmiu^ 
the 11 y oh the moron into eight prakara t changes of 
Ihe watch, and in some parts of their country they 
have clepsydrae regulated according to the ghati, by 
which the times of the eight watches are determined. 

After a watch which lasts seven arid a half f/hofi has 
elapsed, they beat the drum and blow a winding shell 
VOL* L * Y 


3JS 


ALBERUNI’S INDIA. 


Muhtiita, 


called mitkkfij in Persian spcd-muhra. I have seen this 
in the tow u o 1 Ft 1 1 skih J . Pious peopl e 1 m ve be q n eat h e d 
for these clepsydrae, and for their administration, lega- 
cies and fixed incomes. 

Further, the day is divided into thirty m-uhihia, 
but this division is not free from a certain obscurity; 
for sometimes yon think that the Tiiuknrtas have 
always the same length, since they compare them cither 
with the ffhfr-H, and say that two fjluxU are one 
or with the watches, and say that one v. trick is three and 
three-quarters muhilrta. Here the -rmiMhias are treated 
as if they were harm a't[ui'ivcliah.u s (i.c. so and so many 
equal parts of the nych the moron). However, the num- 
ber of such hours of a day or of a night differs on every 
degree of latitude, and this makes us think that the. 
length of a muhurfa during the- day is different from 
its length during the rtv/hl (for if four watches or fifteen 
muhilrta represent a day or a night, the muJnlrU is 
cannot be of the same length in the day and in the 
night, except at the times of the equinoxes). 

On the other hand, the way in which the Hindus 
count the dominants of the muMrtas makes ns more 
inclined to the opposite opinion, that, in fact, the 
nmhttHm are of different length, for in the case of day 
and night they simply attribute to each of them fifteen 
dominants. Here the muirilrlas are treated like the 
Jwra: oUiqum teTwpw'ahs (i.e, twelve equal parts of the 
day and twelve equal parts of the night, which differ 
as day and night differ). 

The latter opinion is confirmed by a calculation of 
the Hindus which enables them to find the number of 
the mnk&vlai ? (which have elapsed of the day) by 
means of the digits which the shadow of a person 
at the time measures. Prom the latter number you 
subtract the digits of the shadow of the person at 
noon, and the remaining number you look out in the 


CHAPTER XXXIV. 


339 


middle column of the following diagram* which we have 
taken from some of their metrical compositions. The 
corresponding field of the upper or lower columns 
shows the number of w/uhnrtm which you wanted to 
find. 


The itwh-tiriuA which j 
have elapsed he fore - 
neon . . . , J 

i 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 


How many rltgir^s Lhe\ 
shadow in question is _ 
larger than the neon- 

shadow + , .J 

06 

60 

12 

6 

5 

3 

2 

Q 

The miiJi'ftrf.fi# which \ 
have elapsed after ■ 
noon . . . ) 

14 

13 

13 

E I 

| 

10 

l__ 

9 

s 



The commentator of the Siddhdnta, Pnlisa, comments 
on the latter opinion*, and blames those who in general 
declare <me muhiirta to be equal to two yhali. saying 
that the number of the gkati of the nychthemeron 
varies in the different, parts of the year, whilst the 
number of its mvJiUrias does not vary. But in another 
place he contradicts himself, where be reasons about 
the measure of the mi' hurl a. lie fixes one mrHiurta as 
equal to 720 prana or farmt-hs, one breath being com- 
posed of two things: the apdna or the inhaling* and 
t he jn r d v f t or the ex It al Eng 0 f bre atl 1 , T wo oth er t erm $ 
of the same meaning arc mhsrdsa and araivdm. How- 
ever, if one thing is mentioned, the other is tacitly 
included and understood ; as, for instance, if you speak 
of rfaj/,% yon include the nights, meaning to express 
days and nights. Accordingly a mn-htirta is 360 apdna 
and 360 prtlivt. 

In the same manner, when speaking of the measure 


Whether tho 
law eKh <jf a 
Win VS Ha is 
wiftblc or 
in v;> i-inblc. 
Pil£C I JS. 


340 


A LEER U NTS INDIA. 


of a flhati, he only mentions the one gpecies of breath, 
connoting the other, for he explains it; in general as 
equal to 360 breaths (instead of 180 ttpttna and 180 
prdmf 

If now the muhUrt.a is measured by breath it. is 
dependent upon the gh/if and the kora \ aapdnocliedes as 
the gauges of its measure, lint this is exactly the con* 
trary of what Pulisa intends, for he argues against his 
opponents who maintain that a day has fifteen muhiMas 
only, if he who counts them dwells on the equator or 
somewhere else, but at the time of the equinoxes, 
Pulisa observes that the ahhrjil coincides with noon 
and the beginning of the second half of the day ; 
that, therefore, if the number of the mah wrim of the 
day varied, the number of the muh&rta called abhijU 
and denoting noon would vary too (i.e. it would 
not always be called the eighth muhfiria of the 
day). 

Yyftsa says that the birth of Yudbishthira took place 
in th^ white half al noon , at the eighth ntith-mi a. If an 
opponent means to infer from this that it was the day 
of an equinox, we answer by referring him to the state- 
merit of Markarnjeya, vie, that the birth took place at 
full moon in the month Jyaishtha, a time of the year 
which Is far distant from an equinox. 

Further, Yyfea. says that the birth of Yudbishthira 
took place at the ahhijii, -whim the youth of tk & night u:m 
gone, at midnight, at the eighth (ravMrteh) of the Mach 
hojf in the month of Ilhfidrapada. This date, too, is 
far distant from an equinox. 

Vasishtba relates that Vlsndeva killed Sisupila, the 
sou of the daughter of Kaihsa, at the ahldjit. The 
Hindus tell the following story of Sisupdla. He had 
been born with four hands, and one day Ids mother 
heard a voice from above saying, “'When that person 
who will kill him touches him, his two superfluous 


CHAPTER XXXIV . 


34 1 

hands will fall off. Thereupon they put the child to 
the bosom of each of those who were present, and when 
it came to be touched by Y&sudeva* the two hands fell 
off, as had been prophesied. Now’ the aunt spoke 
to him, fi Assuredly you will one day kill my child ; ” 
whereupon Yasiideva, who was still a child, answered, 
4 ‘ I shall not do that except he deserve it for some 
crime committed intentionally, and I shall not call him 
to account until his misdeeds exceed ten-” 

Some time afterwards Yndhishthira was occupied 
with preparing a sacrifice to the fire in the presence of 
the most famous personages. He consulted Vy&sa as 
to the rank of the guests present and the honours, due 
to the president of such an assembly, consisting in the 
presentation of water and roses in a cup. and Vyasa 
advised him to make Y hand ova the president. In this 
assembly also .Sis u pill a, his cousin, was present, and 
now he began to rage, maintaining that he had a better 
claim to such an honour than Vftsudeva. He boasted 
much and went even so far as to abuse the parent of 
Yus u dev a. The latter called the present company to 
witness as to his bad behaviour, and let him do as lie 
liked. However, when the affair lasted too long, and 
passed beyond the number of tun (miuiitrtas), Yus u dev a 
took the cup and threw it at him, as people throw with 
the cahra-y and cut off bis head. This is the story of 
Sis u pula. 

He who wants, to prove the above-mentioned theory 
(like Pit lisa, viz, that the mnhtlrias are thirty equal 
parts of the nychthe moron), will not succeed unless 
lie prove that the ftbhijU falls together with noon and 
with the middle of the eighth muhtiHa (so that the 
day consists of twice seven and a half equal mth&Has, 
and likewise the night), As long as ho docs not prove 
this, the muhtirtas differ in length as days and nights, 
though just in India only very little, and it is possible 


54 ^ 


A LB F. RUNTS INDIA * 


that in times distant from the equinoxes noon falls 
either at the beginning or at the end of the eighth 
muhXria, or within it. 

How little exact is the learning of the author (PnKaa) 
who meant to prove this, is evident from the fact that, 
among his arguments he produces a tradition from 
(taiga to this effect, that at the abkijit of the equator 
p^o 1 7 3 l til ere is no shadow ; for, in the first instance, it is not 
true save at the two days of the equinoxes; and, 
secondly, If It were true, it would not have anything 
to do with the subject he tries to prove (as the ques- 
tion of the different length of day and night and their 
divisions docs nut refer to the equator, where day and 
night always equal each other, but only to southern or 
northern latitudes of the earth). 

Itamiltantd We represent the dominants of the single mvMtrtas 
21^™" in the following table : — 


M i 

NS 

= ■3 3 

e * 

The donraiiiiaiifci flf +.1 lc M nh i1 
in tbo day. 

Tlifl Jit ants nf I.Ue 11 ul m rhi^ hi i he 

night. 

t. 

Siva, Li. Mahikleva. 

Rudra, Lt\ Mahiideva. 

2. 

Bhujagk* t.e. the snake. 

Aja, i.e. the lord of all cloven- 
footed animals 

3- 

Mil.ra. 

Aliirbudbnya, the lord of U tiara - 
bhadr&padik 

4- 

Piti-i, 

Pash an. the lord of Revati. 

5- 

Yasu. 

Dasra, the lord of Asvinj. 

6, 

Apsis, i.f- the water. 

Ant-aka, i.e- the angel of death. 

?• 

VL4vbl 

i ,p r Mie FIro, 

S. 

Virirtoya, i-c. Brahman, 

Dh&tri, i-i. Brahma the preserver. 

9- 

Ke4vara (J) f i r c. MhluVlnva, 

Soma, the lord of Mriga&irsha. 

JO. 

Incl r$gM. 

Guru, i.e. Jupiter* 

II. 

Indra, the prince. 

Hart, i.e. NTirdyana. 

1 2+ i 

NisfiLkantf i.e. the muon. 

ItavE, Lf., the ^iiD. 

*3- 

Varmia, p’.r. the lord of ttie 
clouds 

Yama, the angel of death. 

14* 

A r yam an. 

Tvashtri, the lord of CitrA, 

, ls - , 

lihj'igeya (?). 

Atiila/i.e. the wind. 


CHAPTER XXXIV. 


343 


Nobody in India uses the hours except the astrologers, 
for they speak of the dominants of the hours, and, in 
c onseq u en ce, a 3 so of don \ inants of the nych Ihemera. The 
dominant of the nychth&meron is at. the same time 
the dominant of the night, for they do not separately 
establish a dominant for the day, and the night is, 
in this connection, never mentioned- They arrange 
the order of the dominants according to the harm 
temporales. 

They call the hour hord t and this name seems to indi- 
cate that in reality they use the hone oMiqim tempo - 
■raUs ; for the Hindus call the • media signorum (the 
centres of the signs of the zodiac) hord, which we .Mus- 
lims call nimhahr (cf, chap- ixxx.), The reason is this, 
that in each day and each niglit always six signs rise 
above the h orison „ If, t lie re fore - the hour is cal 1 e d by 1 1 ie 
name of the centre of a sign, each day and each night has 
twelve hours, and in consequence the hours used in the 
theory of the dominants of the hours are hone obliques 
tempo rales, as they are used in our country and are 
inscribed on the astrolabes on account of these domi- 
nants. 

This opinion is confirmed by the following sentence 
of X ij ay a can din in the Karan a - tilaka t Le. the first of 
the canons* After having explained the rule how to 
find the dominant of the year and of the month, he 
say a : “ To fl tid the honidhipati, add the signs which have 
risen since the morning to the degree of the horoscope, 
the whole being reckoned in minutes, and divide the 
sum by goo, The quotient you get count off from the 
dominant of the ny ch th emeron, con ] l ti ng the plan etary 
Spheres from above to below. The dominant of a day 
you arrive at, is at tlte same time the dominant of the 
hour,' J He ought to have said, “To the quotient you 
get add one, and count off the sum from the dominant 
of the nychthemeron/ 1 If he had said, “Reckon the 


On l-lifl 
Jjauro In 
Hindu as- 
trology. 


174 , 


344 


ALBERVNFS INDIA. 


equatorial degrees which liave risen, 1 * &c. f the calcula- 
tion would have resulted in h mm osquinvctiaUs* 

XsiJUArc of The Hindus rive certain names to the hmw oUioiue, 

tli a twenty* ... . - . . , J J 

four hmras, which we have united m the following table* We think 

they am taken from the hook SrUdAam, 


H 1 
is 

d j? 

** 'S 

Nflinsa of tllLJ 

lloriy m lIlu d:iy. 

Wbatliar 
Favourable 
dv unlucky. 

Their tuimea iu tliu 
night. 

Whether 
favourable 
or .unlucky. 

i. 

Haudra. 

Unlucky. 

KAJi^tri. 

Unlucky. 

it 

Samnya, 

Lucky. 

HodhinS. 

Lucky. 

3* 

Kar&ht. 

Unlucky. 

Vairahina. pi. 

Lucky. 

4* 

Sattra. 

Lucky. 

Tni^autva. 

Unlucky. 

5- 

Vega. 

Lucky. 

GAtanfra {?}. 

Lucky. 

6. 

ViHilla. 

Lucky. 

Maysk 

Unlucky. 

7* 

}\ ritjnsai'a. 

Unlucky. 

Dftinnrtya (?). 

Lucky. 

8, 

Siubba, 

Lucky. 

JivEitamiiir 

Unlucky. 

9- 

Krcda. 

Lucky. 

^oshinl. 

Unlucky. 

IO, 

Candila. 

Lucky. 

V risk ill 

Lucky. 

ll. 

j KyilUkA.. 

Lucky. 

D&harfya {?}- 

The most 
uu lucky 
of all. 

12, 

| Atnrita, 

Lucky. 

C&ntima (?). 

Lucky. 


wt= at uma Th ebook Vishn u^Dha rma mentions, among the ndgas 

influuHcVlT or serpents* a serpent called Ndf/a Knlika. Certain por- 
^ons of the hours of the planets stand under Its in- 
^i 7Sr fl nenoe. They are unlucky, and everything which is 
eaten during them hurts and is of no use for anything. 
Sick people who treat them selves with poisonous medi- 
cines do not recover, but die and perish. During these 
times no incantation is of any avail against the bite of 
a snake, for the incantation consists in tho mention of 
the Gam da, and in those inauspicious times the stork 
himself cannot help in any way, much less the mention 
of his name. 

These times are represented in the following table 


CHAPTER XXXIV. 


345 


where the planetary hour is reckoned as consisting of 
i ;o parts. 


Tut Dchrnfriwits 
tSjft J [ones. 

p 

I 

i 

-■ 

“ 

1 

1 

L> 

S 

Number of the 
150 parts of 
the hour be- 
fore the be- 
ginning of 
the time of 
Kulikn . , 

1 &? 

7 f 

0 

O 

Number of the 
pftrtft daring 
which the in- 
fluence of 
Kalika lasts. 

16 

$ 

37 

2 


144 




64 


Saturn, 


( 3*6 ) 


Dtifiiii Li cm of 
tliO fULLftr 
month. 


[•: HViL.iti-i of 
moonlight. 


OH APT Eli XXX V + 

ON THE DIFFERENT KINDS OF MONTHS AND YE AES. 

The natural month Is the period of the moon’s syno- 
dical revolution. We call It physical because it de- 
velops in the same way as all natural phenomena, 
rising out of a certain beginning like non-existence, 
increasing by degrees, and growing* standing still when 
the climax is attained, then descending, waning away 
and decreasing till at la^t they return to the non- 
existence whence they came. In the same manner the 
light develops on the body of the moon, since she 
appears after the moonless nights as a crescent, then 
as a young moon (after the third night), and as full 
moon, and thereafter returns through the same stages 
to the last night, which is like non-existence, at all 
events with reference to human senses. It is well 
known to everybody why the moon continues for some 
length of time in the moonless nights, but it is not 
equally known, not even to educated people, why she 
continues some time as full moon. They must learn 
how small the body of the moon is in comparison with 
that of the sun, that in consequence the enlightened 
portion by far exceeds the dark one, and that this 
is one of the causes why the moon must necessarily 
appear as full moon for some length of time. 

That the moon has certain effects on moist substances, 
that they are apparently subject to her influences, that, 
for instance, increase and decrease in ebb and flow 


chapter XXXV . 


347 


develop periodically and parallel with the moon’s 
phases, all this is well known to the inhabitants of sea- 
shores and seafaring people. Likewise physicians are 
well aware that she affects the hnmores of sick people, 
and that the fever-days revoke parallel with the moon's 
course. Physical scholars know that the life of animals 
and plants depends upon the moon, and experimen- 
talists know that she influences marrow ant! brain, 
eggs and the sediments o£ wine in casks and jugs, that 
she excites the minds of people who sleep in full moon- 
light. and that she affects (?) linen clothes which are 
exposed to it- Peasants know liow the moon acts upon 
fields of cucumbers, melons, cotton, ikc. : and even make 
the times for the various kinds of sowing, planting, and 
grafting, and for the covering of the cattle depend upon 
the course of the moon. Lastly, astronomers know that 
meteorologic occurrences depend upon the various phases 
through which the muon passes in tier revolutions. 

This is the month, and twelve of them are in tech- 
nical language called a lunar year. 

The natural year is the period of a revolution of the 
sun in the ecliptic. We call it the natural, because it 
comprehends all the stages in the process of generation 
which revolve through the four seasons of the year. 
In the course of it, the rays of the sun as passing 
through a window-glass and the shadows of the sun- 
dials reass ii me the same size, position, .and direction in 
which, or from which, they commenced. This is the 
year, and is called tk# solar one, in antithesis to the 
lunar year. As the lunar month is the twelfth part, of 
the Umar year, the twelfth part of the solar year is a 
solar month in theory, the calculation being based on 
the mean rotation of the sun. 1 f, however, the calcula- 
tion is based on his varying rotation, a solar month is 
the period of his staying in one sign of the zodiac. 

These are the well-known two kinds of months and 




Solar 

month. 


years. 


On him- 
infer 

csdcnlutiiiES, 


Be^lmilng 
ai t'll humt 

pnoutlir 


The month 
CQllUtefi a c 

1 l . lr n halves. 


34S A LB BRUNTS INDIA ♦ 

M'lie Hindus call the conjunction ttmdvds-tfd, the 
opposition vA/nmiid } and the two quarters ATVH (?). 
Some of them use the lunar year with lunar months 
and days, whilst others use the lunar year but solar 
months, beginning whli o degree of each zodiacal sign. 
The gun's entering a sign is called sankrdnl.i. This 
1 uni-solar calculation is. however, only an approxima- 
tive one. If they constantly used it, they would soon 
feel induced to adopt the solar year itself and solar 
months. In using this mixed system they had only 
this advantage, that they could dispense with inter- 
calation. 

Those who use lunar months begin the month with 
conjunction or new moon, and this method is the canoni- 
cal one, whilst the others begin it with the opposition or 
full moon, I have heard people say that Varfthamihira 
does the latter, but I have not yet been able to ascer- 
tain this from his books. The latter method is for- 
bidden. Still it seems as if it were rather old, because 
tha Veda says : “Man say the moon has become com- 
plete, and by her becoming complete also the month 
lias become complete. Thus they speak because they 
do not know me nor the interpretation of me, for the 
f Creator of the world commenced creating with the white 
half, not with the black half. 5 ’ But possibly these words 
are only a saying of men (not really a sentence taken 
from the Veda). 

The numeration of the days of the month begins with 
the new moon and the first lunar day is called BUB A, 
and again enumeration begins with full moon (Le. they 
count twice fifteen days* beginning with new moon and 
full moon). Each two days which are equidistant from 
new moon or full moon have the same name (or num- 
ber). In them, light and darkness on the body of the 
moon are in corresponding phases of increasing and 
waning, and the hours of the rising of the moon in one 
day cor respond to the hours of her setting in the other* 


CHAPTER XXXV. 


349 


Lor the purpose of finding these times they me the 
following calculation : — 

Multiply the elapsed lunar days of (lie month, if 
they are less than 15, or, in case they are more, the 
difference between them and 15, by the number of the 
ffh&fts of the night, in question, Add 2 to the product, 
and divide the sum by 1 5. Then t he quotient repre- 
sents the number of gJiaffs and minor fractions of time 
between the first night, and either the setting of the 
moon in the night in question, one of the nights of the 
white half, or the rising of the moon in the night in 
question, one of the nights of the hlmh half 1 

This calculation is based on the fact that the space 
of time between the first night and the rising or setting 
of the moon in some following night of the same luna- 
tion varies by two minutes {(jhaM), and that the nights 
vary, lasting either a little longer or a little shorter 
than thirty minutes. If, therefore, yon count thirty 
minutes for each nychthemeron, and yon divide the 
product by half the number of the minutes, you get 
two minutes for each nychthemeron r As these two 
minutes, however, agree with the difference of the 
nights, they multiplied the number of nych them era 
by the measure of the night, i.e. the number of its 
fjkatU (see above, lb 6, 7), whilst it would have been 
more accurate to multiply by the half of the sum of 
the ffkatisol the night in question and of the first night 
of the lun at ton, It is useless to add the two minutes, 
for they represent the moment when the crescent of 
the moon first becomes visible, but it this moment were 
adopted as the beginning of the month, the two minutes 
would be transferred to the conjunction. 

As months are composed of days* there are as many 
kinds of months as there are kinds of days. Each 
month has thirty days. We shall here use the civil day 
(Sdv&na t v + chap, xxxiii) as a standard. 

I11 agreement with the Hindu calculation of the re- 


r&ge 177 - 


V; til OILS 
kiiuLn 4.' [' 
isaanths. 


VarifjnK 
liindg of 
years, 


T]jfl ihuy (if 

Pnriuilm, 


350 ALBERUNFS INDIA . 

volutions of sum and moon in a kalpa, a lunwy month 
= uychthemera, You find this number by 

dividing the sum of the days of the kaiptt by the 
1 1 u m ber of 1 ts 1 <1 m ar mon t hs P T h e n 1 1 rn b er of th e hi 1 ? ar 
months of a kalpa represents the difference between the 
revolutions of sun and moon in It, viz. 53,433.300,000. 

A month has 30 lunar days, for this number is 
canonical, as the number of 360 is canonical for the 
number of days of a year. The solar month has 30 
solar days and 30J;-? civil days. 

The month of the fathers is equal to 30 of our months, 
and has 885} fi;f 1 r civil days. 

The month of the angeh is equal to 30 years, and has 
r°-9S7ii"? i civil days. 

The month of Brahman is equal to 60 ?calpas t and 
has 94,674,987,000,000 civil days. 

The month of PurusJui is equal to 2,l6o t OOO kalpas, 
and has 3,408,299.532,000,000,000 civil days. 

The month of Kha has 

9497 ,49 8, 700*000, oco,ooq»gqq,oqo ? oqo ; qog civil days. 

lly multiplying each of these months by twelve, we 
get the number of days of the corresponding year. 

The lunar year has 354 t 7 %;Wt 
T he solar year has 365^^ civil days. 

The year of the fathers has 360 lunar months, or 
io,63i x? y;fi & r civil days. 

The year of the angels has 360 of our years, or 
i 3 1.493 ws oivilday*. 

The year of Brahman has 720 Lolpas, or 
1,136,099,844:000,000 civil days. 

The yem of Parasha has 25,920,000 kfrfpas, or 
4O1 89Q : 594=3 84,000,000,000 civil days. 

The year of Kha lias 

] 1 3 . 609 ,984, 400,0^:0,000, 000. ooo,oco.oco ,000 civ il d ay s* 
The latter number is mentioned by the Hindus, 
although it is written in their books that there is no 
combination oi numbers beyond the day of Purusha, for 


CHAPTER XXXV. 


35 ' 

it is the first and the last, and is without a beginning in 
the past and without uu end in the future. The other 
kinds of days, of which mouths and years (those of the 
fathers, the angels, and Brahman) are composed, refer 
to beings who stand wider Purnsha in the order of 
beings, and whose duration is defined by certain limits 
of time. The day of Purmha is simply an abstraction 
of the Hindu mind to denote that which is above the 
soul (titm.anf for they make no distinction between 
pur ltd* a and tUman except in the or den or sequence in 
which they enumerate them, They speak of Parasha 
in terms resembling those of the Sufis, viz, the ft* is not 
the first, and is not something else. It is quite possible 
in imagination to extend the idea of duration from the 
existing present moment towards both sides, i.e. towards 
the past which no longer exists, and towards the future 
which possibly will exist, and to measure duration ; 
and if some part of it admits of being determined by 
days, i m ag i 1 1 ati on al so ad rn its re d u p] i cation s of it i n th e 
guise of months and years* In nil this it is the inten- 
tion of the Hindus that we should refer the years 
invented by them to certaiu periods of life, beginning 
with the coming into existence, and ending with de- 
struction and death* However* God the Creator is 
sublime beyond either* and also the simple substances 
(air* fire* earth, water) do not know coming into exist- 
ence nor de st ru c Dio n (i n per iod i cal retn rn s ) . Therefore 
we stop with the day of Purnsha, and do not think it 
necessary to use still larger periods of time. 

Things which do not rest on intrinsic necessity offer 
a wide field for difference of opinion and arbitrary 
systematising, so as easily to become the source of 
numerous theories. Some of them may he developed 
according to a certain order and rule* whilst others are 
devoid of such* In the latter class T reckon the follow- 
ing theory* but unfortunately I have forgotten from 
what source it has come to me: "33,000 human 


Fatfo tjS. 


A tiMiiitk)!! 
relating t-> 
i ha FtsvHfc of 
the Grey, 
BuHL' » r 11 E 
the pule. 


3! I 3 


ALBERUNFS INDIA. 


years are one year of the Great Bear: 36*000 It Liman 
years are one year of Brahman, and 99.000 human 
years: are one year of the pole/ 1 However, as regards 
the year of Brahman, we remember that YSaudeva 
speaks to Arjnna on the battlefield between the two 
ranks : 61 The day of Brahman is two halpas ; >7 and in 
the B rtihiiiaisiddh&nla there is a tradition from Vyusa, the 
son of Para&ra, and from the book Smviti, that kalpa 
is a day of Dev aka, i.e. Brahman, and also a night, of 
his. In consequence the there-mentioned theory is 
evidently wrong (one year of Brahman being it 1 finitely 
longer than 36,000 years). Farther, 36,000 years are 
the period of one revolution of the fixed stars in the 
ecliptic, since they pass one degree in 100 years, and 
the Great Boar belongs to them. However, in their 
Lraditional literature tire Hindus separate the Great 
Bear from the fixed stars, and attribute to it a distance 
from the earth which differs from the real distance, 
and therefore they describe it by qualities and con- 
ditions which in reality do not belong to it. I f the 
author of that theory meant by the year of the Great 
Bear one revolution of it, wo do not see why it should 
revolve so much more rapidly than the other fixed 
stars (for, in that case, the diameter of its course would 
be much larger than that of the others), nor why 
It should form an exception to the laws of nature 
(according to which all fixed stars revolve at the same 
distance from the earth and in the same time); and 
the pole has no revolution which might be considered 
as a year of it. From all this I conclude that the 
author of the theory was a man entirely devoid of 
scientific education, and one of the foremost in the 
series of fools who simply invented those years for the 
benefit of people who worship the Great Bear and the 
pole, lie had to invent a vast number of years, for 
the more outrageous it was, the more Impression it 
would make. 


( 353 ) 


CHAPTER XXXVI, 

ON THE FQlIH MEASURES OF TIME CALLED MAN A, 

MAwa and praifUtna moan mea&im. The four kinds 
of measures are mentioned by Ya'kiih I bn Tarik in his 
book Compmtio Sphwrarum, but he did not know them 
thoroughly, and, besides* the names are misspelled, if 
this is not the fault of the copyists. 

They are — 

•Sft-um-mdna. i.e, the solar measure, 

Sd%'iina~-mdvw , , i.e. the measure depending u po n the fuity {civil 
measure). 

CVndru-wrfna, t,& the luuar mcsstU'e. 

Nakshatm-rndna-, i.e , c lit! ]u war-station measure {xkhrcat mea- 
sure). 

There are days of all four kinds of measure, days of 
an individual nature, which, when compared with other 
days, show a certain difference of measure. However, 
the number 360 is common to all of them (360 days of 
each class being a year). The civil days are used as a 
gauge to determine thereby the other days. 

As regards the mura-m&na, it is known that the solar Mansnra- 
year has 365 ; fyi>V civil days. Dividing this sum by f^IirVubli- 
360. or multiplying it by 10 seconds (= day)* you ™?nr T 
get as the measure of the solar day civil day, 

According to the Yhhmt- DItar ma, this is. the time of r Age i 7 
the sun’s passing his hkvkli. 

The civil day, based on the $dvavui-?Tidna t is here used 
as the unit of a day, for the purpose of measuring 
thereby the other kinds of days, 

VOL, I t 


Z 


354 


ALBERUNPS INDIA + 


W 1 1 At TIED is 

iwatiB of the 

j«t:ra-JiL£t/ia, 

Hf.-adra- 

iKHifWTj and 

sfiva'-ui- 

ffidtia. 


The lunar day, based on the candra mdva, is called 
tit hi* Dividing the lunar year by 360 or the lunar 
in oath bv 30, you get as the measure of the lunar 
day civil days (wrong: read civil 

day). 

According to the Yishw u-DJm rma, this is the time 
during which the moon is visible when she is far dis- 
tant from the sun. 

Iftilcshatra-mrhia is the period of 1 lie moon's passing 
through her twenty-seven stations, viz. 2 j] days. 

This number is the quotient which yon get by dividing 
the days of a kalpa by the number of the revolutions 
of the moon in a Jcalpa. Dividing it by 27, you get as 
the time of the moon’s passing one station c ^’il 

days. Multiplying the same number by 12, as we have 
done with the lunar month, we get. 327 ;; {- civil days 

as the time of the moon's passing twelve times through 
all her stations. Dividing the first n timber by 30, we get 
as the measure of the sidereal day ;] i jp;, l J civil days* 

According to the VishfyU-DJutrma, the sidereal month 
has only twenty-seven days, whilst the months of the 
other measures have thirty days : and if a year is com- 
posed of these days, it has days (see above). 

Evidently there is a fault in the text of Vwh^iu^Dhavma^ 
as the montli is reckoned too short. 

The saura-m/ma- is used in the computation of the 
years which compose the halpa aud the four yugas in 
the r.iituriju.giuL of the years of the nativities, of the 
equinoxes and solstices, of the sixth parts of the year 
or the seasons, and of the difference between day and 
night in the nychthomeron. All these things are com- 
puted in solar years, months, and days. 

The ccmdm-rMna is used in the computation of the 
eleven harami (v. chap, lxxviii.), in the determination 
of the leap month, in the computation of the sum of 
days of the tinartitra (v* chap. li.) T and of new moon and 
full moon for lunar and solar eclipses (v. chap, lix.p 


CHAPTER XXXVI. 


355 


In all these things the Hindus use lunar years, months, 
and days, which are called tUki. 

The sdmna-mdna is used in the calculation of the 
vdra f i.t\ the days of the week, of the akmgc ma t Le. the 
sum of the days of an era (v. chap, li.) ; in determining 
the days of marriage and fasting (v. chap. Ixxv,); the 
sUfttka, Le . the days of childbed (v. chap, lxix.) ; the 
days of the iiu cleanness of the houses and the vessels 
of the dead (v. chap. IxxiL); the ciki&sd, ue. certain 
months and years in which Hindu medical science pre- 
scribes the taking certain medicines; further in deter- 
mining the prd yaicUta , i . e .the d ay a of th e ex piation s 
which the Brahmans make obligatory for those who 
have committed some sm 3 times during which they are 
obliged to fast and to besmear themselves with butter 
and dung (v. chap, lxxij. All these things are deter- 
mined according to sdmna-mdmi. 

On the contrary, they da not determine any tiling 
by th % nakfiha£rf/-mrina, since it is comprehended in the 
citndra-md$Ut. 

Every measure of time which any class of people 
may choose by general consent to call a day, may be 
considered as a maim. Some such days have already 
been mentioned in a preceding chapter (v. chap, xxxiii.). 
However, the four nubias par excellence are tliose to 
the explanation of which we have limited the present 
ch aptor. 


( 356 ) 


A LJcrtjyiiJi a„ 


10ii 


wild dvteahtj- 
kuiui 


CHAPTER XXXVI r. 

OH THE l" A RTS OB THE MONTH AND THE YEAR. 

As the year is one revolution of the sun in the ecliptic, 
it is divided in the same way as t lie ecliptic. The latter 
is divided into two halves, dapending upon the two 
solstitial points. Correspondingly the year is divided 
into two halves, each of which is called mjana. 

When flie sun leaves the point of the winter solstice, he 
begins to m o v e to w a rd s the n orth po 1 e. T1 lere f o re th is 
part of the year, winch is nearly one half, is referred to 
the north and called vMm^dyana^ he. the period of the 
smi’s marching through six zodiacal signs beginning 
with Caper. In consequence, this half of the ecliptic 
is called makar&di, he, having Off per f?s beginning. 

When the sun leaves the point of the summer solsl ice 
ho begins to move towards the south pole: therefore 
this second half is referred to the south and called 
iMcshindyff/t/ij the period of the sunh marching 
through six zodiacal signs beginning with Cancer. In 
consequence, this half of the ecliptic is called karkddi, 
i.e. having Cancer as beginning. 

Uneducated people use only these two divisions or 
year-halves, because the matter of the two solstices is 
clear to them from the observation of their senses. 

Further, the ecliptic ls divided into two halves, ac- 
cording to its declination from the equator, and this 
division is a more scientific one, less known to the 
people at large than the former, because it rests on 
calculation and speculation, Each half is called Mia. 


CHAPTER XX XVII. 


357 


That which has northern declination is called idUtrabula 
or m-csfidrfi. i.e. having Arm as beaming; that which 
has southern declination is called daksJiakiUa or CnlarfL 
he, having Libra as beginning* 

Further, the ecliptic is by both those divisions divided tmc 
into four parts, and the periods during which the sun 
traverses them are called the seasons of the year — spring, 
si i mm er , a ti t. u mu „ an d w in ter. Acco r d ingl y , the z odiaca 1 
signs are distributed over the- seasons. However, the 
Hindus do not divide the year into four, but into six: 
parts, and call these six parts ritu. Each riiu com- 
prehends two solar months, i.e. the period of tile sun's 
m arc h ing t hro ugh two eonsecu ti ve zod i acal signs, T hei r 
names aod dominants are represented, according to the 
most widespread theory, in the following diagram. 

I have been told that in the region of SomamUh people 
divide the year into three parts, each consisting of four 
months, the first being ‘mwhak&la, beginning with the 
month A.shihlha; the second, sUakala, i.c. the winter; 
and the third, v.shnaMla, i.e. the summer. 


\ 

t 

a» 

£ f y-1 

£.% 5p 

i-j ■ 

m , 

i 

& 

VbG Zi'dt:.i-:ji.+l 
rjf the RilU* 

CapriconiUa 
and Amjihwa. 

r-'JfujHfi and 
Arles. 

Taurus mid 
Gemini. 

Their name. 

S'iaira. 

Vacant a or 
KusnmflkarfL, 

Grishina. or 

N iiiJlgha, 



Tli 61 r domi- 
nants. 

j N a rad a. 

Agnl the Tire. 

[ Eidlti the 
Ruler. 

SoOTpio mirl 
ariae . 

Virgo and 
Libra. 

Cancer and 

T-h^u, 

The EtaliacaJ. Signs 
i>i the HiW, 

1 

. 

H ^ - 

*=5 *- ,J= 

■ .5^ 

V tr:^ 

If 

1 

I-I&manta, 


VaYshakfrla. 

Their names. 

Yaishnava, 

1 

PrajAp&ti. 

Visvedevdh . 

Their clomi- 
nants. 


.53 


ALBBRONI’S INDIA. 


Cage j3t. 


The da mil i. 
Mice of the 
f-i ?Hgta halves 
of month.*, 


I am inclined to think that the Hindus divide the 
ecliptic by such an opening of the circle which divides 
the circumference of a circle into six parts, a measure 
which is equal to the radius, beginning with the two 
solstitial points, and that therefore they use sixth parts 
of the ecliptic. If this is really the case, wo must not 
forget that we, too, sometimes divide the ecliptic, be- 
ginning with the two solstitial points, at other times 
beginning with the equinoctial points, and that we use 
the division of the ecliptic in twelfth parts side by 
side with that in fourth parts* 

The months are divided into halves from new moon 
to full moon, and from full moon to new moon. The 
Vishnu* Dharma mentions the dominants of the halves 
of the months, as we give them in the following table : 


The Nhtww nr tike 
month*. 

The dominants i>f Elia 
£iyi{j (hi naif of etnjh 
nmHth r 

T no d u minim oi tbe 
Mack h ul f tit utf uh. 
mcmth. 

CaUra 

Twaiilitrl 

Yamya, 

Vai&lkba 

1 ludraght 

Agneya, 

.Tyfti shtha, . 

8nkra 

llaudra* 

AsMdlia 

V invade v t i 1 _j 

Karpa. 

jSrftVi-i.iui 

Yislnm 

Fitrya, 

BtiMrajmda 


9lnta, 

Asvnyuja * 

A Sana (?) * 

Maltra* 

Kilrttika 

Agni . 

9akra r 

Mfirga^tsba 

Sanmya 

Nimtip 

Pa ash a 

Jiva * 

Vi»fLnu. 

M&gha 

Plfctya 

Vurima. 

PMtgrana , 

Bhaga 

Fftshau, 


< 359 ) 


CHAPTER XXXVI TJ, 

ON THE VARIOUS MBA SU RES OF TIME COMPOSED OF 
DAYS, THE T.IFE OF TiRAEIMAN I3SCLUDKP. 

The day is called dimm (dimasu), in classical language 
tlivam, the night r&tri t and the nychthemeron akordtra. 
The month is called mdm and its half ptiksha* The first 
or white half is called iitktapak&ka } because the first 
parts of its nights have moonlight at times when people 
do not yet sleep, when the light on the moon’s body 
increases and the dark portion decreases. The other 
or Mach half is called Ijhhnapak^Ji^ because the first 
parts of its nights are moonless, whilst other parts have 
moon ligli t, 1 j u t on ly th e x \ wh e n people si ee p . T h ey are 
the nights when the light on the body of the moon 
wanes,, whilst the dark part increases. 

The sum of two months is a ritu, but this is only an 
approximative definition, for the month which has two 
pakslm is a lunar month, whilst that one the double 
of which is a ritu is a solar month, 

Six rilu are a year of mankind, a solar year, which 
is called hark or harlck or harsh, the three sounds h, 
kk t and $h being much confounded in the mouth of the 
Hindus {Skr. varsha). 

Three hundred and sixty years of mankind are one 
year of the angels, called dibba-harh (divi/a- rarsha), and 
1 2,000 y ears of the angels are unanimously reckoned as 
one catvTy-uga, There is a difference of opinion only 
regarding the four parts of the caluryiuftt and regarding 
the multi pH cations of it which form a mrmmntara and 




Uuflfil tula - 
Lion ni i-lifi 
i'lien- 
sinrtsti of 
time. 


360 


ALB E RUSTS INDIA . 


a kalpa. This subject will be fully explained in the 
proper place (v r chaps, xli r and xliv/). 

Two kfdpm are a day of Brain nan. It is the same 
if we say two kalpas or 28 for 360 days 

of Brahman are a year of Brahman, i.e> 720 or 

I o,o 8 o manva ntm vis, 

Further, they say that the life of Brahman is 100 of 
his years, iA, 72 000 foiZptm! or j ,008,000 

In the present book we do not go beyond this limit. 
The book Visknu-Dha rm a has a tradition from Mflr- 
kandeya, who answers a question of Vajra in these 
words: <c Kalpa is the day of Brahman, and the same 
is a night of his. Therefore 720 hdpas are a year of 
Ids, and his life has too such years. These too years 
are one day of Furusha, and the same is a night of his, 

I low many Brahmans, however, have already preceded 
Furusha, none knows but he who can count the sand 
of the Ganges or the drops of the rain*” 


( 36i ) 


CHAPTER XXXIX. 

ON MEASURES OF TIME WHICH ARE LAfttplt THAN 
THE LIFE OF BRAHMAN. 

All that is devoid of order or contradicts the rules laid 
down in the preceding parts of this hook is repulsive 
to our nature and disagreeable to our ear. But the 
Hindus are people who mention a number of names, 
all — as they maintain — referring to the One T the First, 
or to some one behind him who is only hinted at. 
When they come to a chapter like this, they repeat the 
same names as denoting a multitude of beings, measur- 
ing out lives for them and inventing huge numbers. 
The latter is all they want ; they indulge in it most 
freely, and numbers are patient, standing as you place 
them. Besides, there is not a single subject on which 
the Hindus themselves agree among each other, and 
this prevents us on our part adopting the use of it On 
the contrary, they disagree on these imaginary measures 
of time to the same extent as on the divisions of the 
day which are less than a prtina (y. chap, xxxiy.). 

The book Srddham by Utpala says that, “a man- 
Vfmtara is the life of India the ruler, and 28 rtmnran- 
ia j \v s arc on e d ay 0 f Pit a mah a, i . s. Brab m an . 11 is lif 0 
is 100 years, or one day of Kesava. The life of the 
latter is 1 00 years, or one day of Mahftdeva. The life 
of the latter is 100 years, or one day of Is vara, who is 
near to the Supreme Being. His life is 100 years, or 
one day of SadaSva. The life of the latter is ioo 
years, or one day of Viraficana, the Eternal 3 who will 


Want of »y%- 
tc=]DQ regard- 
in y ti?e 
greatest 
measures of 
ticne. 


rage 1B3. 
Tlio gmitext 
muu.£uf of 
tin if: decer- 
mined by 


3^2 


ALBERUNI’S INDIA. 


TJLC tliTj'lC 

deScrnaiauckl 
by tnxtia. 


last for ever, even when the preceding five beings 
perish.” 

We have already mentioned that the life of Brahman 
is as long as 72 f ooo hd-pas. All numbers which wo 
shall here mention are kalpas. 

If the life of Brahman is a day of Keiam, his year, 
consisting of three hundred and sixty days, has 
25.920,000 kalpiM, and his life, 2,592,000,000 kalpm. 
The latter is 1 day of Haluideva : his life, therefore, 
93,37 2, OOO, 000, 000 kal} vfts. The 1 alter is 1 d ay of v am ; 
therefore his life 3, 3 5 9.. 2 3 2, 000, 000,000, 000 kalpas. 
The latter is c day of S&dftsiva ; therefore his life 
1 20,932,352,000,000,000:000.000 kalpas. The latter is 
one tiny of Virancana, of which the parrirdk ahf.dpa is 
only relatively a very small part (v* p. 1 75). 

Whatever may ho the nature of these calculations, 
apparently the day and the centennium are the elements 
out of Much the whole from beginning to end has 
been constructed. Others, however, build their system 
on the small particles of the day which we have- pre- 
viously mentioned (in chap, xxxiv.). In (ion sequence, 
these people differ among themselves regarding that 
which they composes as they differ regarding the par- 
ticles ant- of which they compose. We shall here give 
one system of this kind as invented by those who use 
the following metrologic system : — 

T tjjia.fi — 16 laid, 
l foUd = 30 kdihifid. 

1 bhhtM - 30 nimeshrt , 
i nim^Jua = 2 Ut vtt . 
i lava = 3 t-mf-ir 

The reason of this division is, as they maintain, the 
fact that; the day of Siva is composed out of similar 
particles ; for the life of Brahman is one ffhati of Marl, 
i.e, Vastideva. The life of the latter is too years, or 
one hdd of Kudra, i.e. Mahadeva ; the life of the latter 
is ico years, or one kdsh(hd of Isvara ; the life of the 


CHAPTER XXXIX. 


3*3 

latter is 100 years, or one nimesha of SadMiva ; the 
life of the latter is loo years_, or one lam of Safeta ; the 
life of the latter is ioo years, or one tmii ol Siva, 

If T bow, the life of Brahman is. 

73.000 lutlpilti, 

the life of Nuolyana is 

155,5 20 , 000 , OOO Edpiif ; 

the life of Kurtra, 

5 r 3 7 4 j 7 7 1 j 3 W.ooo,ooo, 000 \ 
the life of thara^ 

51572^562,780, 1 6o ? coo,oon,ooo, 000,000 ; 
the life of SadftSiva, 

r 73 j3 j ^’ 99 s ,7 14*096, 640,000 .ooo, 000,000,003,000. coo ; 
the life of Sakttf, 

1 0, 7 82,449, 9 ?$t 7 5&. 5 3^,781,1 20,000,000.O0O : OOOy,OOQ, 000,OCX3..COO,OGCi, 

The latter nonther represents one Irnf L 

If you compose a day out of it according to the above- 
mentioned system, it has 37,264,147,1 26,589458,187, 
S 30 , 720 , 000 : 000 , 000 , 000, 000,000,000. QQQ.Q 0 Q.QCO kaU 
pas* The latter number is one day of Siva, whom they 
describe as the eternal one, who is exempt, from being pro- 
created and from procreating, free from all qualities and 
at i ributes which, may be applied to created things. The 
last-mentioned number represents fifty-fife orders of 
number (i.e* unite, tens, hundreds, thousands, &c, &c+) ; 
but if those dreamers had more assiduously studied arith- 
metic, they won Id not have invented such outrageous 
numbers, (rod takes care that their trees do not grow 
into heaven. 


( 3^4 ) 


Pa^.; tfti- 
JtanlfLqacLoii 

of jllfi two 
samdh it , 


KtOLJ of 
King 1 liiran- 
yakr-i^Lpu 
and. hijs acm 
rruh Ju> La. 


CHAPTER XL, 

ON THE SAMDin, the interval between two periods 
or TIME, FORMING THE CONNECTING LINK BETWEEN 
THEM, 

The original smkdhi is the interval between day and 
night. i.e. morning-dawn, called set rad hi udatfft*, i-*’ r the 
mmdM of the rising, and evening dawn, called sam- 
tfhi a utamanuj i.e. the samdki of the setting. The 
Hindus require them for a religious reason, for the 
Brahmans wash themselves during them, and also at 
noon in the midst between them for dinner, whence an 
uninitiated person might infer that there is still a third 
mrhdhi* However, none who knows the subject pro- 
perly will count more than two samdhis* 

The Parana? relate the following story of King IJ irau- 
yaka^ipu, of the class of the Baity a : — 

By practising devotion for a long period, he had 
earned the claim that any prayer of his should be 
granted. He asked for eternal life, but only long life 
was granted to him, for eternity is a quality of the 
Creator alone. Not having obtained the realisation 
of this wish, lie desired that his death should not be 
effected by the hand of a human being, angel, or demon, 
and that it should not take place on earth nor in heaven, 
neither in the night nor in the day; By such clauses 
he meant to avoid death, which is unavoidable by man. 
His wish was granted to him. 

This wish reminds one of the wish of the devil that 
ho should bo allowed to live till the day of resurrection, 


CHAPTER XL, 


because on that day all beings would rise from death. 
However, lie did not attain his object, as it was only 
conceded to him to live till the day of the well-known 
time, of which it has ’been said that if is the last of the 
days of trouble. 

The king had a son called P rahl fid a, whom he in- 
trusted to a teacher when he grew up. One day the 
king ordered him into his presence to learn what he 
was studying* Now the boy recited to him a poem, 
the meaning of which was that only Vishnu exists, 
whilst everything else is illusion. This went much 
against the opinions of his father, who hated Vishnu, 
and therefore he ordered the boy to be intrusted to 
another master, and that be should learn to distin- 
guish a friend from an enemy. Thereupon he waited 
a certain time, and then examined him again, when the 
boy answered, <J I have learned what you have ordered, 
but I do not want it, for I am in friendship alike with 
everything, not in enmity with anything/’ Now his 
father became angry and ordered Mrn to be poisoned* 
The boy took the poison in the name of God and thought 
of Vishnu, and lo l it did not hurt him. His father 
said /‘Do you know witchcraft and incantations ? ” The 
boy answered, fi No, but the God who has created me 
and given me to thee watches over rne/ J Now the 
wrath of the king increased, and lie gave orders to 
throw him into the deep sea. But the sea threw him 
out again, and he returned to his place. Then he was 
thrown before the king into a huge blazing fire, "but it 
did not hurt him. Standing in the flame, he began to 
converse with his father on God and his power. When 
the boy by chance said that Vishnu is in every place, 
his father said, “Js he also in this column of the por- 
tico ? " The boy said, £i Yes/* Then his father jumped 
against the column and beat it, whereupon Narasimh a 
came forth from it, a human figure with a lion’s bead, 
therefore neither a human being, nor an angel, nor a 


A LBERUNPS INDIA . 


iS'i.- 1 , iVL'f l'l t 
iiiidi:] tn 

JiMvology.. 

V- ll -ftll.UlH- 
liira quuLud. 


PrtfiB ] 3 t. 


On tli a 
fianidhi nf 
ihayaiir-liaie 

; L I L I.L Its CCJ-CtL- 
1 :i t : r-Lti ] j 
with tli a pro- 
CBsaiun of 
the equi- 
n okch. 

Other Iiinc3a 
of zariidh L 


366 

demon. Now the king and his people began to fight 
with Narasttfiha, who let them do so, for it was day- 
time. But when it was towards evening and they were 
in the sarhdhi or twilight, therefore neither in the day 
nor in the night, then Narashliha caught the king, 
raised him into the air, and killed him there ; therefore 
not on earth nor in heaven. The prince was taken out 
of the fire and ruled in his place, 

Hindu astrologers require the two miitdhi, because 
then some of the zodiacal signs exercise the most power- 
ful influence, as we shall explain hereafter in the proper 
place. They make use of them in a rather superficial 
way, simply reckoning the time of each smhdhi as one 
■ni uh aria = two gJiat i = 48 mm ales . Ho w eve r . Varilh a - 
mil lira, excellent astronomer as he is, always only used 
day and night, and did not allow himself to follow the 
opinion of the crowd regarding the sanfotfhi, He ex- 
plained the smhdki as that which it really is, via. as 
the moment when the centre of the body of the sun 
stands exactly over the horizontal circle, and this 
moment he establishes to be the time of the greatest 
power of certain zodiacal signs. 

Besides the two saniulki of the natural day, astrono- 
mers and other people assume still other mrfidJm, 
which do not rest on a law of nature nor on nbser va- 
tic n , b 1. 1 1 si rn ply on sorn e hypoth esis, 8 0 th ey aft rib u te 
a samdM to each nyosia , i.e. to each of tlie year-halves 
in which the sun ascends and descends (v. chap, xxxvii.), 
a m-rhdhi of seven days before its real beginning. On 
this subject I have an idea which is certainly possible, 
and even rather likely, viz, that this theory is of 
recent origin, not of ancient date, and that, it has been 
brought forward about 1 3 CO of Alexander ( = A,D. 989 ), 
when the Hindus found out that the real solstice 
precedes the solstice of their calculation. For Pufi- 
jala, the author of the Smfr.tt M&nam, says that in the 
year 854 of the 8akakii.la the real solstice preceded his 


CHAPTER XL, 367 

calculation by 6 50", and that this difference will in- 
crease in future by one minute every year, 

These are the words of a man who either was him- 
self a most careful practical observer, or who examined 
the observations of former astronomers which he had 
at Ids disposal, and thereby found out the amount of 
the annual difference. No doubt, also, other people 
have perceived the same or a similar difference by 
means of the calculation of the noon-shadows. There- 
fore (as tills observation was already much known) 
1, ; t pal a of K as! 1 m i r h as t.ak eii this t heory f rorn 1 ?h nj a) a + 
This conjecture of mine is confirmed by the fact that 
the Hindus prefix the mmdkis of the solstices to each 
of the six seasons of the year. In consequence of which 
they begin already with the twenty-third degree of the 
next preceding signs. 

The Hindus assume a wriidhi, too, between the dif- 
ferent yagas and between the manmniaras ; but as the 
bases of this theory are hypothetical, so everything else 
derived from them is hypothetical. We shall give" a 
sufficient explanation of these things in the proper 
place. 


C rf* ) 


On HiK me &. 
sure <jf a 

£<£} ti'ffiKtfn 
jujd 


CHAPTER XLT. 

DEFINITION OF THE TEltMS Jt KALPA ’* AND t( CATHRYUGa/* 

AND AN EXPLICATION OF THE ONE BY THE OTHER. 

Twelve thousand Divya-years, the length of which haw 
already been explained (v. chap, xxxv.), are one eaiur- 
ytt(/a f and 1000 ealuryugets are one ktilpa, a period at 
the beginning and end of which there is a conjunction 
of the seven planets and their aphides and nodes in o° 
of Aries. The days of the kalpa are called the katpa- 
a Haryana, for dh means day, and aryetMa means the mm. 
Since they are civil days derived from the rising of the 
sun t they are also called dam of the earth, for ruing 
presupposes an horn on, and an horizon is one of the 
necessary attributes of the earth. 

By the same name, kalpa-ahargaoa, people also call 
the sum of days of any era up to a certain date. 

Our Mindim authors call the days of I he kalpa the 
days of the Sind-hind or the days of the world, counting 
them as 7,577,916.450,000 days (sdvana or civil days), 
or 4,320,000,000 solar years, or 4,452,775,000 lunar 
years. The same sum of days converted info years of 
360 civil days is equal to 4.383,101,250 of them, and to 
12,000,000 divya-years* 

The Aditya- Pur ana says : " Kalpima is composed of 
kaf which means the existence of the species in the 
world, and pana, which means their destruction and 
disappearance. The sum of this existing and perish- 
ing is a kalpa f 

Brahmagupta says : (i Since the planets and mankind 


CHAPTER XU. 


369 

in the world came into existence at the beginning of 
the day of B rah man, and since they both perish at 
the end of it, we must adopt thi.s day of their existence 
as a Jcalpa. not another period,” 

In another place he says : c; A thousand mlu'ryuga are 
one day of JJevaka, i>e. Brahman, and a night of his is 
of the same length. Therefore his day Is equal to 2000 
rntwryugru 

111 the same way Vyfisa the son 0! ParMara says : "lie 
win 1 believes that 1000 caturi/uf/as are a day and 1000 
ca i%ryngm a night, knows Brahman/ 5 

Within the space of a kalpa 71 ealuryv.ga$ are equal 
to 1 mam, i.e. manvantam, or Maim -period, and 14 
mmius are equal to 1 kttlpa> Multiplying 71 by 14, 
yon get 994 CfUit/r yagas as the period of T4 waneau- 
taras, and a remainder of 6 catunjugas till the end of 
the ktdpa. 

If w T e, however, divide these 6 mturyugm by 15, in 
order to find the saAidhi both at the beginning and end 
of each of the 14 mmivantaras, the number of the 
Wtiuihis being by 1 larger than that of the rnmivaidarm^ 
the quotient is ftlis. If we now insert ■§ cMurifUga 
between each two consecutive mmtvomtaras^ and add the 
same amount both at the beginning of the first and the 
end of the last man rau lams, the fraction of | disap- 
pears at the end of 1 5 mmivantaras (-§- X 15 = 6). The 
fractions at the beginning and end of the Jcalpa repre- 
sent- the mmdh% i.e. a common link. A kalpa, includ- 
ing its stVfhdhif lias IOOO caluriju*ja.& i as we have said in 
the first part of this chapter. 

The single parts of a kalpt- stand in a constant rela- 
tion to each other, one bearing witness regarding the 
other. For it commences with the vernal equinox, a 
Sunday, the conjunction, of the planets* their apsides 
and nodes, which takes place there where there is neither 
lie vat l nor Aim tip between them, at the beginning 

of the month Caitra, and in the moment of the sinr's 
VOL. I. 2 A 


Pngfl lSdr 


JtgliiUou ba- 
t-Tvaaii JiLfut— 
vaulara. nnd 
1 -alpcL, 


CwidlLliOM 

1 ' I tin : l.i-!.' 
hfSiisiln>< ■>£ 
ft *lii|iCU 


37 ° 


ALBERUNtS INDIA. 


Theories of 
A ry utli I m ! a 
the uldcr* 
Puli^Uj mud 
Aryabhata 

the j'uuiig-r': j\ 


Fflg'C i?7r 


rising over Lanka,. When there occurs an irregularity 
with one of these conditions, all the others become con- 
fused and are no longer valid. 

We have already mentioned the number of the days 
and the years of a ktdpa, Accordingly a mturyu$a 7 as 
■^^tli of a MI pa, has 1,577,916450 days and 4420,000 
years. The numbers show the relation between a lalpa 
and a atlziryufta, and, show further how to determine 
the one by the other. 

All we havo said in this chapter rests on the theory 
of Brahmagupta and on the arguments by which lie 
supports it. 

Aryabhata the elder and Pi i lisa compose the manean- 
tam from 72 caturyugm, and the l-alpa from 14 man- 
tantaras, without inserting anywhere a samdki. There- 
fore, according to them, a fctdpa has jooS caluryugas ; 
further, 12,096,000 divya years, or 4,354,560,000 human 
years, 

According to Fulisa, a catwryuga has 1,577,917,800 
civil days. According to him, therefore, the sum of the 
days of a Jcalpa would be J , 590 , 54 1 , [42400, These are 
the numbers which lie uses in his book. 

I have not been able to find anything of the books 
of Aryabhata. All I know of him, I know through 
the quotations from him given by Brahmagupta, The 
latter says in a treatise called Critical Mescuroh on the 
Basis of ike Canons, that according to Aryabhata the 
sum of the days of a (lalwnjiLga is 1,577,9 17,500, i.£. 
300 day s less than according to Pulisa. Therefore A r y a- 
bhata would give to a halpi 1,590440.840,000 days. 

According to Aryabhata and Pnlisa, the fcaljm and 
catnrpfya begin with midnight which follows after the 
day the beginning of which is the beginning of the 
kalpa, according to Brahmagupta, 

Aryabhata of Kusuniapura, who belongs to the school 
of the elder Aryabhata, says in a small book of his on 
Al-ntf (f)i that “ 100S mine yagas are one day of Brah- 


CHAPTER XLI. 


37i 


man. The first half of 504 cffturyugm h called ntsar- 
p ini t during which the sun is ascending, and the second 
h al f is cal led tt a r aa ?pm$> d siring w 1 a i eh 1 h e st m is de- 
scending, The midst of this period is called $ctnm t i.c. 
equality for it. is the midst of the day, and the two 
ends are called durtmw (P)-* ? 

This is so far correct , as tho comparison between day 
and kalpa goes, but the remark abort!, the Binds ascend- 
ing and descending is not correct. If he meant the 
sun who makes out day, it was his duty to explain of 
what kind that ascending and descending of the Bun is ; 
but if he meant a sun who specially belongs to the day 
of Brahman, it was his duty to show or to describe him 
to ua + I almost think that the author meant by these 
two expressions the progressive, increasing develop- 
ment of things during the first half of this period, and 
the retrograde, decreasing development in the second 
half. 


( 372 ) 


CHATTER XLII. 


OK THE DIVISION OF THE CATUBTOOA. INTO YUCJAS, AND 
THE DIFFEEUiXT OPINIONS REGAED1NG- THE LA'i'TKlI, 


rinf s> 1 1 gtu 
parte. oJ 1 a 
14' nryv.g* 
iwcwdiijg- U > 

ftiltt ,'W» HUd 

J5 mil mil- 


The author of the- VKsknu-Dhtirmn says : “Twelve hun- 
dred divya yea-rs are one yuga, called frisky a t The double 
of it is a dvdpf'rra. the triple a £rd&, the quadruple a 
kyita, and all four yv.ga& together are one caturffitga, i<e. 
the four y uym or &u-ms< 

il Seventy-one mturyi&gas are one mtmvarUara, and 
14 manvantarasi together with a smhdhi of the duration 
of one hitayuga between each two of them, are one 
Icalpa. Two kalpets aie a nychthe moron of Brahman* 
and lib life is a hundred years, or one day of Purus ha, 
the first man* of whom neither beginning nor end is 
known,” 

This h what Varan a, the lord of the water, communi- 
cated to Mama, the son of Dasaratha f in primeval times, 
since he knew these tilings thoroughly. The same 
information lias also been given by Blkirgava, ik. 
M&rkandeya, who had such a perfect knowledge of time 
that he easily mastered every number, lie is to the 
Hindus like the angel of death* who kills them with 
his seat, being apnili+dhri&kya (irresistible), 

Brahmagupta say a : <£ The book Smriii mentions that 
4000 devuka ymrs arc one kritaytyg a } but together with 
a smiulhi of 400 years and a sarkdhycfohSa of 400 years, 
a kriimyvgn has 480D devaka years. 

u Three thousand years are one iretdyuga^ but together 


CHAPTER KLSL 373 


with a wnhdhi and i\ smhdhydmm, each of 3 00 years, a 
frdrtifv/jft has 3600 years. 

“Two thousand years are a dvdpanL but together 
with a sarhdki and a sawidhy&mm, each of 200 years, 
a tlrdpam has 24OO years. 

“A thousand years are one kali, but together with a 
sarkdhi and a -samdkydmSa t each of too years, a kali- 
yuf/a has T 2 O 0 yearn” 

This is what- Brahmagupta quotes from the book 
Sm.rilL 

" Divya years are changed into human years by being 
multiplied by 360. Accordingly the four yitgas have 
the following sums of 1 111 man years t — 


A kfitnyjf&i lias 
besides 
and 


1,440,000 years, 
144,000 , t 
144,000 r T 


Mtikd&h 
satftifhi/titiifa. 

Su rn 1 om 1 172 8,000 V <:.;i a.4 - n r I r if- it . f jpif/ft . 


A tf'CtSltJWpt Jieir 
besides 
and 


Oo£o,o0a years, 
roS,Doo ,, 

108,000 m 


mrtidhi, 

mmfRrifilmin-, 


Ship total 1 ,236, 0 00 y on r« = on a . 


A dtitfpa™ lias 
besides 
and 

Solis total 

A Mil lias 

besides 

and 

Bum total 


720,000 years,. 

72,000 !t 

72,000 1 , 


m-t&dhi} 
ta tij.cifi yiiiitid . 

864.000 years “One dvdpnra* 

360.000 years, 

jO : 000 • , 

36,000 ,, 


mtfidhi, 

ZO.tiid hrjilm r-TJ . 

4^2,000 years = one htlii/uyti. 


“The sum of the lariitt and iretd is 3,024,000 years, 
and the sum of the hrita } tretd , and dvdpara is 
3 , 383,000 years,” 

Further, Brahmagupta says that "Aryabhata con- 
siders the four tfugas as. the four equal parts of a. catur- 
yugm. Thus he differs from the doctrine of the book 
Smfiii, just mentioned, and he who differs from us is an 


Uuration of 
the siiigTc 

yti&aa. 


Pug* iSS. 


Ary ft] 

acid PiUiliai 
quoted by 
JllUllCEIH;- 
gliptCRu 


374 


ALBRRUNPS INDIA. 


Tkse rut© of 
Pftultaa, 


CvEticfftm 

thei*nn. 


opponent.” On the other hand, Brahmagupta praised 
Pan lisa for what he does, since he does not differ from 
the book Bmriii ; for lie subtracts 1200 from the 
4S0G years of the krtiay v.ga^ and diminishes the re- 
mainder still more and more, so as to get yuym whirl \ 
correspond with those of the SwriH, but yuyas without 
samdhi and mmdhy&tk&t* As regards the Greeks, we 
may notice that they have nothing like the tradition 
of the Smriti, for they do not measure time by yntjtc$ f 
or hal-pm* 

So far the quotation from Brahmagupta, 

As is well known, there is no difference of opinion 
011 the sum of the years of a complete calaryuga. There- 
fore, according to Aryabhata, the krdiyitffii has 3000 divya 
years or 1,080,000 human years. Each two yuyas has 
6000 divija years or 2,160,000 human years. Each 
three yugm has gooo divya years or 3 ,.240,000 human 
years* 

There is a tradition that Pan lisa in his Siddhdnta 
specifies various new rules for the computation, of these 
numbers, some of which may be accepted, whilst others 
are to be rejected, $0 in the rule for the computation 
of the yugas he puts 4S as the basis and subtracts one- 
fourth of it, so as to get 36^ Then he again subtracts 
I2 f for this number is his basis of subtraction, so as to 
get 24, and subtracting the same number a third time, 
he gets 12. These 12 he multiplies by iqq, and the 
product represents the number of dvm/tf years of the 
yugas* 

If lie had made the number 60 the basis, for most 
tilings may be determined by it, and had made one-fifth 
of It the basis of subtraction, or if he had subtracted 
from 60 consecutive fractious of the remaining number, 
first 1 = 12, from the remainder £ - T2, from the re- 
mainder | = 12, and from the remainder J = i2 h ho 
would have obtained the same result which he has found 
by his method ( 60 - ~V ^=48, - l = 36, - ^ = 24, - £ = 12). 


CHAPTER XUr. 


37 5 


It is possible that Paul is a simply mentions this method 
as one among others, and that it is not that one in par- 
ticular which he himself adopted. A translation of his 
whole work into Arabic has not hitherto yet been under- 
taken, because in his mathematical problems there is 
an evident religious and theological tendency, 

Vul isa deviates from the rule which he himself gives 
when he wants Lo compute how many of our years have 
elapsed of the life of Brahman before the present kalpa. 
Up to the time of Ills writing, eight years five months 
and four days of a new kalpa had elapsed. He counts 
606S halpm. As, according to him, a kalpa has 1008 
Mtiuvyugas, he multiplies this number by ioqS and gets 
6, 1 16,544 G&turtfUtjGS* Those lie changes into yngas by 
multiplying them by 4, and he gets 24466,176 yitga s. 
As a yuga, according to him, has r ,080.000 years, he 
multiplies the number of yngas by 1,080,000, and gets 
as the product 26, 423470.080,000, ic. the number of 
years which have elapsed of the life of Brahman before 
the present kalpa. 

Perhaps it will seem strange to the followers of 
Brahmagupta that he (Pulisa) has not changed the 
eatu-ryttgas into exact yugtts, but simply changed them 
into fourth parts (by dividing them by 4b and mul- 
tiplied these fourth parts by the number of years of a 
single fourth part. 

]STow t we do not ask him what is the use of repre- 
senting the mlurpf.f.4] as as fourth parts, inasmuch as 
they have no fraction which, in this manner, must be 
reduced to wholes. The multiplication of the whole 
catvrjfHfjas by the years of one complete caturi/uga, ie> 
4, 3 20 ,000 , w ould h a vo b ee n suffi cient ly I en gth y . We, 
however, say that lie would be correct in doing so if he 
had not been influenced by the wish of bringing the 
elapsed years of the present / L xtlpa into relation with the 
last- mentioned number, and multiplied the complete- 
elapsed manvantarm by 72 in agreement with his 


Fulfca -rsii- 
guliites lvntv 
nniflj nf fJis 
Hfe flf ]?5f. r Lh- 
iLiom haa 
elapsed "be - 
forstlns pre- 
sent Aw i' tc . 


Va go i8$ r 


OrLt-iciems 
on thus cui- 
cu:labit>ii. 


BL'ahiiL&ftU]) 
ta J R lLS.TH.tl 
criticianfia 
Q n Arya- 
Lh/iti. 


Djfffrirciiit 
ksn^tlif? of 
tlifl wlur 
year. 


376 A LEE R UN PS INDIA . 

th e ory s f 1 ] rth e i\ If 1 1 e 1 1 ad not m ultiplied tl 1 e prod n ct 
by the years of a miuryitya^ which gives t he product of 
r , 866 , 2 4 0,000 years , li rid . more ov er, h ad n ot mid t ipli e< 1 
the number of the complete wdnryvgas which have 
elapsed, of the current manvanlara by the years of a 
single ivhioh gives (he product of 1 16,640,000 

years. Of the current caturtftyya there have elapsed 
three yugax, i.e, according to him, 3,240,000 years, The 
latter number represents three-fourths of the years of a 
min- ry ugn . He u ses tl 1 e *ai 1 t e n u tub er wl 1 e t \ com pu ti n g 
the week-day of a date by means of the number of the 
days of the here-mentioned number of years. If he 
believed in the above-mentioned rule, lie would use it 
where it is required, and he would reckon the three 
jfif/jtts as nine-tent] is of a ml^ryuya. 

Now, it is evident that that which Brahmagupta re- 
lates on his authority, and with which he himself agrees, 
is entirely unfounded ; but ho is blind to tills from sheer 
hatred of Aryabhata, whom he abuses excessively* And 
in this respect Aryabhata and Pulisa are the same to 
him, I take for witness the passage of Brahmagupta 
where he says that Aryabhata has subtracted something 
from the cycles of the Oapid Draconis and of the nj.wis 
of the moon, and thereby rendered confused the com- 
putation of the eclipse. He is rude enough to compare 
Aryabhata to a worm which, eating the w ood, by chance 
describes certain characters in it, without understanding 
th e m a n d with out i n ten ding to d raw them . I( He, how- 
ever, who knows these things thoroughly stands oppo- 
site to Aryabhata, Hrtshena, and Yishnueandra like the 
lion against gazelles. They are not capable of letting 
h i m see th ei r f ace s A In such often si ve ten n s h e attack s 
Aryabhata and maltreats him. 

We have already mentioned (v* chap* xlL) how m any 
civil days (srtmna) a co.turyuga has according to the 
three scholars* Pulisa gives it t 3 SO days more than 
Brahmagupta, hut the number of years of a caiuryitga 


CHAPTER XLTI. 


377 


is the smite according to both. Therefore, evidently 
Pnlisa gives the solar year more days than Brahma- 
gupta. To judge from the report of Brahmagupta, 
Aryabhata gives a rfttvvjjvga yco days less than Pnlisa, 
ai id 1050 m ore t h an I J rah m a gi 1 pta . A coo rd i u gly, A rya- 
bhata must reckon the solar year longer than Brahma- 
gupta and shorter than Pnlisa, 


{ 37 8 ) 


On natural 
eAtfwlypn’is. 

Page t go. 


CHAPTER XLITI. 

A. DESCRIPTION OF THE FOUR VUG AS, AND OF A IX THAT 
IS EXPECTED TO TAKE PLACE AT TUP END OP THE 
FOURTH VUG A. 

The ancient Greeks held regarding the earth various 
opinions, of which we shall relate one for the sake of 
an example* 

The disasters which from time to time befal the earth, 
both from above and from below, differ in quality and 
quantity. Frequently it has experienced one so in- 
commensurable in quality or in quantity, or in both 
together, that there was no remedy against it, and that 
no flight or caution was of any avail. The catastrophe 
comes on like a deluge or an earthquake, bringing 
destruction either by the breaking in of the surface* 
or by drowning with water which breaks forth, or by 
burning with hot stones and ashes that are thrown 
out, by thunderstorms, by landslips, and typhoons ; fur- 
ther, by contagious and other diseases, by pestilence, 
and more of the liken Thereby a large region is stripped 
of its inhabitants : but when after a while, after the 
disaster and its consequences have passed away, the 
country begins to recover and to show new signs of life, 
then different people flock there together like wild 
animals, who formerly were dwelling in hiding-holes 
and on the tops of the mountains. They become 
civilised by assisting each other against common foes, 
wild beasts or men, and furthering each other in the 
_hope for a life in safety and joy. Thus they increase 


CHAPTER X LI I!* 


179 


to great numbers; but then ambition, circling round 
them with the mugs of wrath and envy, begins to dis- 
hub the serene bliss of their life* 

Sometimes a nation of sncli a kind derives its pedi- 
gree from a person who first settled in the place or 
distingu ishe d hi m self by so met hi n g or other, so that ho 
alone continues to live in the recollection of the suc- 
ceeding generations, whilst all others beside him are 
forgot ten , PI at o mentions in the Boob of La ics Ze u s, £ 0. 
Jupiter, as the forefather of the Greeks, and to Zens is 
traced back the pedigree of Hippocrates, which is men- 
tioned in the last chapters added at the end of the book. 
We must, however, observe that the pedigree contains 
only very few generations, not more than fourteen. It is 
the following : — Hippofc rates — Gnosidikos — Nebros — 
Sostratos — Theodores — Kleomyttades — Krisamis — - 
Da rd anas — Sost rates — J lj ! (?) — Hippolochos- -Po- 
daloirios — M achaon — Asclepios — A polio— Zen s — K ro- 
ll os P i.?-. Saturn* 

The Hindus have similar traditions regarding the 
Cattily uga, for accord in g to them, at the beginning of 
it, hr. at the beginning of Kr itayuga. there was happiness 
and safety, fertility and abundance, health and force, 
ample knowledge and a great, number of Brahmans, 
The good is complete in this age, like four-fourths of a 
whole, and life lasted 4000 years alike for all beings 
during this whole space of time. 

Thereupon things began to decrease and to he mixed 
with opposite elements to such a degree, that at the 
beginning of Tretftyuga the good was thrice as much as 
the invading bad, and that, bliss was three-quarters of 
the whole. There wore a greater number of Kshat- 
riyas than of Brahmans, and life bad the same length 
as in the preceding age. So it is represented by the 
Vishnia Dhffrma-, whilst analogy requires that, it should 
bo shorter by the same amount than bliss is smaller, i.e. 
by one-fourth* In this ago, when offering to the fire. 


Podigr-QB (if 
Hippi 1-. 
cratos. 


Hindu 
nutiana 
regarding 
L3ig four 
LigGS or 


[IjC. 


Oi ik. : 

K ills;/ ’iff 


3S0 A LB BRUNTS INDIA . 

they begin to kill animals and to tear off plant?, prac- 
tice which before were 1m known. 

Thus the evil increase till, at the beginning of Dyh- 
para, evil and good exist in eejnal proportions, a ud like- 
wise bliss and misfortune* The climates begin to differ, 
there is much killing going on, and the religions become 
different. Life becomes shorter, and lasts only 400 
years, according to the Vishini-Dharma, At the begin- 
ning of Tisliya, i.e. Ealiyuga, evil is thrice as much as 
the remaining good* 

The Hindus have several well-known traditions of 
events which are said to have occurred in the Tret a and 
Dvapara ynga.% e.g v the story of Rath a f who killed Ha- 
vana ; that of Haras ura in a the Brahman, who killed every 
Khhatriya he laid hold upon, revenging on them the 
d eat h of his f at h er. Th ey th ink tl j a t h e li ve s in he aven , 
that he has already twenty -one times appeared on earth, 
and that be w ill again appear. Further, the story of 
the war of the children of Band 1.1 with those of Eurm 

In the Ealiyuga evil increases, till at last it results 
in the destruction of all good. At that time the inhabi- 
tants of the earth perish, and a new race rises out of 
those who are scattered through the mountains and hide 
themselves in caves, uniting for the purpose of wars hip- 
ping and flying from the horrid, demoniac human race* 
Therefore this age is called Kh'iktyiiga^ which moans 
1( Being ready for going away after having finished the 
work* 

hi the story of Saint aka which Venus received from 
Brahman, God speaks to him in the following words: 
L When the Ealiyuga conies. I send Buddhodana, the 
son of Sudd bod an a the pious, to spread the good in the 
creation. But then the Mwliammir*. -L&+ the red- wear- 
ing ones, who derive their origin from him, will change 
everything that he has brought, and the dignity of the 
Brahmans will be gone to such a degree that a Shdra, 
their servant, will be Impudent towards them, and that 


CHAPTER XLI1I . 


IS i 


a Sudra and Cant 1 ala will share with them the presents 
and offerings. Men will entirely be occupied with 
gathering wealth by crimes, with hoarding up, not re- 
fraining from com [nit-ting horrid and sinful crimes. All 
this will result in a rebellion of the small ones against 
the great ones, of the children against their parents, 
of the servants against their masters. The castes will 
be in uproar against each other, the genealogies will 
become confused. Hie four castes will be abolished, and 
there will be many religions and sects* Many books 
will be composed, and the communities which formerly 
were united will on account, of them be dissolved into 
single individuals. The temples will be destroyed and 
the schools will he waste. Justice will be gone, and 
the kings will not know anything but oppression and 
spoliation, robbing and destroying, as if they wanted 
to devour the people, foolishly indulging in far-reaching 
hopes, and not considering how short life is in com- 
parison with the sins (for which they have to atone). 
The more the mind of people is depraved, the more will 
pestilential diseases be prevalent. Lastly, people main- 
tain that most of the astrological rules obtained in that 
age are void and false. 

These ideas have been adopted by Maui, for lie says : 
“ Know ye that the affairs of the world have be on 
changed and altered ; also priesthood has been changed 
since the v-rfxup'.u of heaven, i.c, the spheres, have been 
changed, and the priest can no longer acquire such a 
knowledge of the stars in the circle of a sphere as their 
fathers were able to acquire. They lead mankind astray 
by fraud. What they prophesy may by chance happen, 
but frequently it does not happen.” 

The description of these things in the V him u-Dh-arma 
is much more copious than we have given it. People 
will be ignorant of what is reward and punishment ; 
they will deny that the angels have absolute know- 
le d ge* T h e i r 1 i v es w ill be of d iff erent ie ngth , an 1 1 non a 


Saying of 
MhuL 


Description 
03 tins Kri- 
tayuga 
According to 
riisfemi- 
Dkarnia. 


192. 


TIi a oiisin 
of medicine 
weeding to 
tUa hav.'k. 
Ctrmka. 


38 ?. ALBERUNFS INDIA. 

of them will know how long it is. The one will die as 
an embryo, the other as a baby or child. The pious 
will be torn away and will not have a long life, but 
he who does evil and denies religion will live longer. 
Sftdras will be kings, and will be like rapacious wolves, 
robbing the others of all that pleases them. The doings 
of the Brahmans will be of the same kind, but the 
majority witl be- SMras and brigands. The laws of the 
Brahmans will bo abolished. People will point with 
their fingers at those who worry them selves with the 
practice of frugality and poverty us a curiosity, will 
despise them, and will wonder at a man worshipping 
Vishnu* for all of them have become of the same 
(wicked) character. Therefore any wish will soon be 
granted, little merit receive great reward, and honour 
and dignity be obtained by little worship and service. 

But finally j, at the end of the yvya, when the evil 
will have reached its highest pitch, there will come for- 
ward Garga., the son of J-SbV (?) the Brahman, ie, Kali, 
after whom this yugt r is called, gifted with an irresis- 
tible force j and more skilled in the use of any weapon 
than any other. Then he draws his sword to make 
good all that lias become bad ; he cleans the surface of 
the earth of the- impurity of people and clears the earth 
of them. lie collects the pure and pious ones for the 
purpose of procreation. Then the Kritayugu. lies far 
behind them, and the time and the world return to 
purity, aud to absolute good and to bliss. 

This is the nature of the j/t/jos as they circle round 
through the Oaturyugu. 

The book Caraka } as quoted by 'Ali Ibn Zain of 
Tabari stan, says : “ In primeval times the earth was 
always fertile and healthy, and the elements or mrshn- 
hk ftta wore equally mixed. Mon lived with each other 
in harmony and love, without any Inst and ambition, 
hatred and envy, without anything that makes soul 
and body ill. But then came envy, and lust followed. 


CHAPTER X ’Ll II. 


3&3 


Driven by lust, they strove to hoard up, which was dif- 
ficult to some, easy to others. All kinds of thoughts, 
labours, and cares followed, and resulted in war, deceit, 
and lying. The hearts of men were hardened, the 
natures were altered and became exposed to diseases, 
which seized hold of men and made them, neglect the 
worship of God and the furtherance of science. Igno- 
rance became deeply rooted, and the calamity became 
great. Then the pious met before their anchorite 
Kfisa (?) the son of Atreya, and deliberated ; whereupon 
the sage ascended the mountain and throw 7 himself on 
the earth. Thereafter God taught him the science of 
medicine A 

All this much resembles the traditions of the Greeks, qwahiwu 
which we have related (in another place). For Aratus tiw m ' J ' 1 
says in his and in his intimations referring 

to the seventh zodiacal sign r tl Look under the feet of 
the Herdsman, Lc. among the northern figures, 

and yon see the Virgin coining with a blooming ear of 
corn in her hand, i.e. Alnwdk AVdmL She belongs 
either to the star-race, which are said to be the fore- 
fathers of the ancient stars, or she was procreated by 
another race which we do not know. People say that 
in primeval times she lived among mankind, but only 
among women, not visible to men, being called Justine, 

She used to unite the aged men and those who stood 
in the market-places and in the streets, and exhorted 
them with a loud voice to adhere to the truth. She 
presented mankind with innumerable wealth and be- 
stowed rights upon them. At that time the earth was 
called golden. None of its inhabitants knew pernicious 
hypocrisy in deed or word, and there was no objection- 
able schism among them. They lived a quiet life, and 
did not ye 1 11 av i gate th e sea i n ,sh i ps. T h e cow & affords cl 
the necessary sustenance. 

“ Afterwards, when the golden race had expired and 
the silver race porno on, Virgo mixed with them, but 


i 93 ‘- 


A Hcholiftii 
on Ar-dlm. 


3^4 A LB 12 R UN PS INDIA . 

without being happy, and concealed herself in the 
mountains, having no longer intercourse with the women 
as formerly. Then she went to the large towns, warned 
their inhabitants, scolded them for their evil doings, 
and blamed them for ruining the race which the 
golden fathers had left behind. Site foretold them 
that there would come a race still worse than they, 
and that ware, bloodshed, and other great disasters 
would follow" , 

! ‘ A fte r Ii a v i n g h n ish ed , she d 1 sappeare d 1 nto th e m o un - 
tains till the silver race expired .and a bronze race came 
up* People invented the sword, the doer of evil ; they 
tasted of the meat of cows, the first who did it. By all 
this their neighbourhood became odious to Justice, and 
she flew away to the sphere /’ 

The commentator of the booh of Aral ns says ; “ This 
Virgin is the daughter of Zeus, She spoke to the 
people on the public places and streets, and at that 
time they were obedient to their rulers, not knowing 
the bad nor discord. Without any altercation or envy 
they lived from agriculture, and did not travel on sea 
for the sake of commerce nor for the Inst of plunder. 
Their nature was as pure as gold, 

b! But when they gave up these manners and uo 
longer adhered to truth. Justice uo longer had inter- 
course with them, but she observed them, dwelling in 
the mountains* When, however, she came to their 
meetings, though unwillingly, she threatened them, for 
they listened in silence to her words* and therefore she 
no longer appeared to those who called tier, as she had 
formerly done. 

“When, then, after the silver race, the bronze race 
came up, when w-ars followed each other and the evil 
spread iu the world, she started off, for she wanted on 
no account to stay with them, and hated them, and went 
towards the sphere. 

“There are many traditions regarding this Justice. 


CHAPTER XLin, 385 

According to some, she is De meter, because she has the 
ear of com ; according to others, she is Tv^rf/ 7 

This is what A rat us says. 

The fol lowing occurs in the third hook of the Laws 
of Plato : — 

tl The Athenian said : f There have been deluges, dis- 
eases, disasters on earth, from which none lias been 
saved but herdsmen and mountaineers, as the remnants 
of a race not. practised in deceit and in the love of 
power,' 

‘‘ The Knossian said : f At the beginning men loved 
each other sincerely, feeling lonely m the desert of the 
world, and because the world had sufficient room for 
all of them, and did not compel them to any exertion. 
There was no poverty among them, no possession, no 
contract There was no greed among them, and. neither 
silver nor gold. There were no rich people among 
them and no poor. Tf we found any of their books, 
they would afford us numerous proofs for all this/ n 


(JUOtftllon 
irum Dj* 
Laws ot 
F 1ft to. 


VCL, 1. 


( 3S6 ) 


Th e Hmgls 
a t entrant O'- 
r iTa the i it 
liMreis,, and 
the tUldioii 
o( Ititiru* 


Pagfi 19 +- 


OH AFTER XL IV. 

ON THE MANVANTAKA& 

As 72,000 kidpas are reckoned as the life of Brahman, 
the manvantara, Le< period of Maun, is reckoned as the 
life of Indra, whose rule ends with the end of the 
period. Bis post is occupied by another I mint, who 
then rules the world in the new mtinvantiwa* Brahma- 
gupta says: c ‘ If a man maintains that there is no stnhdld 
between two munimitara^ and reckons each -man-van- 
tar a as 71 eat-uryufffts, he will find that the Lai pa is too 
short by six caiuryuffas, and the minus below 1000 (i.e. 
in 994) is not better than the pins above iooo (i.e. in 
iOo8j according lo Aryabhata), Both numbers how- 
ever, differ from the book Smriti” 

Further he says : “Aryabhata mentions in two books 
of his., the one of which is called DamgUikd^ the other 
A ryaU&mta, that, each vumvardara is. equal to 72 cakir- 
yagtu. Accordingly he reckons a hdpa at 100S cut it r- 
yugas (14 X 72)" 

In the book Vishnu -Dharma Markandeya gives to 
Vajra the following answer : * c Ptirnsha is the lord of 
the universe ; the lord of the kalpa is Brahman, the 
lord of the world; but the lord of the manemdava Is 
Mann. There are fourteen Manns, from whom the 
kings of the earth, ruling at the beginning of each 
man vanta m , d escen d ed . ” 

Wb have united their names in the following table ; — * 


Thu Num'iMr 
of I lie Mmn- 
vuntamg. 


1 

2 

3 

4 

6 

7 

fi 

9 

10 

11 

12 

*3 

14 


The Naidn of tho 
Hiinvantartta 

Their Huiim 1 * accord- 

Thai . Njimw taken 

The Names of Indira 

The N tones of llm children of >Tann, >Jui kbitf* 
of l.:<> eurth who mled at the toegiuill 5i£ 

according tn the 
! Viduiu-mtoi. 

it:** to Um 

VSfilltl tt-U IliHttlL'U 

fttHU oilier Sources* 

according tr> ihc 
Vie hnu-PUrlBft. 

nf euch ^lersed, according Of -ha 
\ LEhnu- F nr An it. 

( Sfayambhuva 

Svayambhnva 

SyAyaiabhiiva 

Mann, ns- the ruler of (Ate first man van Lara, is India, Tvho 

tins nothin? in common with any other being. 

SvArocisba 

Sv&nociya 

Svfti'ocisLa 

Yipa&eit 

. The first of 1 bo children of M&mi, 



Caitraka (?) 

Anttami 

Anttami 

A attain! 

Sns&nti 

Siidivya (?) 

St&masa (?) 

St&ma-s& 

Utamasa (?) 

SikMu 

K ;ira T Khyjtti, Santa hay a, JftmjjaAgba. 

, Radrata 

Raivata 

Raivata 

Antata. (?) 

Lvi j la ha n dim, S u sa i j i bh A v va . Bat y aka . 




Sindian (?), BeUm (?) 

Gftohu&ba 

Cflkfibubha 

CAksbiisha 

^Tanojava 

Puru, Mn to . Satndyumna. Prairmkha (?) 

Yaivasvata 

Yaivagvata 

Vaivasvata 

P □ ran dam 

Ikshvillas, Nabasa I, V 1 . Dhrishna, Karyftti. 

Salami 

SAvand 

** EAvartii 

Bali, the impri- 

Y [raj ns. Ascirvari, Nirmogha. 


=U 

soned king 

Dhritaketu, Mramaya, PaiiCEthastu- 

.Dak 9 ha 

Vishnu- Dhaxma 

0 Brahma- 

MEtMvlryfL 

BmhmfisAvanii 

Dbamapatra 

ns pufrpa 

S % VjHbllU- 

SAnti 

Sukshot otl, 1 ataman j&9 , BI 1 fi ri&h ena. 

Db armasiiY arid 

Rudraputra 

g & pi^ 

— « Rndra- 

Yrisha. 

Sm.'vatmga, DevAmka T find barm Atman (?) 

Kudr&putra 

Daksbaputra 

« patra 

J Dakeba- 

Ritadham&n 

Dev at a {?)■ YAnapadevafbefl Dev a 

h putra 


sheriff bfi- 

Ha&cya 

Raibhya (?) 

Kaibhya (?) 

DlvaspaU 

CitrassiVi* Vicitra-Adyfi (3} 

Bhautya 

Bhaufya 

Hhfimi (I) 

Huci 

Brur, Gablma, Budhnya-iidyA (t) 


CHAPTER XU IT 


3«8 


ALBBRUNPS INDIA. 


Psg*J I95. 
Tli« fi'adi- 
tii.ift f>? 

}’v.WuU\ 1C- 

llitintf to tho 
rtfs. 


The difference which the reader perceives iii the enu- 
meration of the future manmnOfras beyond the seventh 
one, arises, as I think, from the same cause whence 
the difference in the names of the Dvipas is derived 
(v + pp. 235, 236), viz. from the fact, that the people care- 
more for the names than for the order in which they 
are handed down to posterity. We may here rely on 
the tradition of the Vish$u-I x itrdna r for in this book 
their number, their names and descriptions, are given 
in such a way that renders it necessary to ns to con- 
sider also the order m which it gives them as trust- 
worthy, But wo have refrained from communicating 
these things in this place, since they offer only very 
little use. 

The same book relates that King Maifcreya, a Ksha- 
triya, asked Para Aar a , the father of Vy&sa, about the 
past and the future mrmvo/fiiaras. Thereupon the latter 
mentions the name by which each Mami is known, the 
same names which our table exhibits. According to 
the same book, the children of each Mann will rule the 
earth, and it mentions the first of them, the names of 
whom we have given in the table. According to the 
same source, the Manus of the second, third, fourth, 
and fifth manvaniams will be of the race of rriffavrata, 
an anchorite, who stood In such favour with Vishnu, 
that he honoured his children by raising them to this 
distinction. 


( 3S 9 ) 


CHAPTER XLV. 

ON THE CONSTELLATION OF THE GREAT BEAR. 

The fri-eat Bear is in the Indian language called Stipfar- 
shay as, i.e. the- Seven Rishis* They are said to have been 
anchorites who nourished themselves only with what it 
is allowable to eat, and with them there was a pious 
woman, Alsnkd (Ursa Major, star So by £). They 
plucked off the stalks of the lotus from the ponds to eat 
of them. Meanwhile came The Law (Dharma f) and 
concealed her from them. Every one of them felt 
ashamed of the other, and they swore oaths which were 
approved of by IJharma. In order to honour them, 
Dharmu raised them to that place where they are now- 
seen (,wj). 

We have already mentioned that the books of the Hin- 
dus are composed in metres, and therefore the authors 
indulge In comparisons and epithet a ornanlia, such as 
are admired by their countrymen. Of the same kind 
is a. description of the Great Bear in the Smhkitd of 
VarShamihira* where it occurs before the astrological 
prognostics derived from this constellation. We give 
the passage according to our translation : 1 — - 

iS The northern region is adorned with these stars, as 
a beautiful woman is adorned with a collar of pearls 
strung together, and a necklace of white Ictus flowers, 
a handsomely arranged one. Thus adorned, they are 
like maidens who dance and revolve round the pole as 
the pole orders them. And I say, on the authority of 

1 Seatthit&i chap* xiii. v r r -6. 


A tradition 
relating to 
Amntiiiad, 
the wife of 
Vanish thin* 


QuotaHui) 
truin Vnlft’ 
] vn Ha j ihira. 


39o 


ALBERUNl’S INDIA . 


Criticism* 
cm OiLrga + 


PfitfG igti. 


Garga, the ancient, the primeval one, that the Great 
Bear stood in Maglui, the tenth lunar station, when 
Yndhishthirn ruled the earth, and the Sakakula was 
2 5 26 ye ars after tl 1 is. T he Ct reat 1 3 ear r e m ai ti s i n eacl 1 
lunar station 600 years, and it rises in the north -east. 
He (of the Seven Bishis) who then rules the east is 
Marini; west of him is YasisliLha. then AAgiras, Atri* 
Pnlastya, Pulaha, ICratu, and near Vasishtha there is a 
chaste woman called Ar and hat!/" 

As these names are sometimes confounded with each 
other, we shall try to identify them with the corre- 
sponding stars in the Great Bear : — 

Marfat is the 371 . h star of this constellation. 

Yaaishtha ,, s6th ,, 1f 

Afiglnis N 25th: ., „ 

Atn ,, iSth ,, ,, 0 

Era till tl 1 6th tt ,, ,, 

Falaha ,, 17 th ,, „ T , 

Falastra „ 19th ,* ,, „ 

These stars occupy in our time, ir, in the 952nd year 
of the Kakakflila, tbo space between 1 J of Loo and 13^° 
of Spica ( Virgo), According to the peculiar motion of th e 
fixed stars, as we know it, the same stars occupied at 
the time of Yndkishtbira the space between 8f Gemini 
and 20J 1 of Cancer. 

According to the motion of the fixed stars, as adopted 
by the ancient astronomers and Ptolemy, these stars 
occupied at that time the space between 26 J ~ of Gemini 
and S§" of Leo, and the here-mentioned lunar station 
(MagM) occupied the space between o Sex? minutes 
in Leo. 

Therefore it would be much more suitable in the 
present time to represent the Seven RishU as standing 
in Maghft, than in the time of Yndhi&hthira. And if 
the Hindus identify MagM with the Heart of the Lion , 
we can only say that this constellation at that time 
stood in the first degrees of Cancer. 


chapter xlv. 


391 


1 1 ] fi w ord soft. .T arga are with out an y f 011 1 1 d at ion they 
only show how little he knew of that which every 
one must know who wants to fix the places of the 
sto.rs, either by eyesight or by means of astronomical 
observation on certain degrees of the signs of the 
zodiac. 

I have read in the almanacs for the year 95 r of the 
fiakakftla which came from Kashmir the statement 
that the IS even His his stand since seventy- seven yegirs 
in the lunar station Anuradhm This station occupies 
the space between 3 ; \° and the end of i6§ of Scorpio. 
However, the Seven liishis precede this place by about 
a whole zodiacal sign and 20 degrees, i.e, by i| signs 
(v. p, 390). 13 nt what man would be able to learn all 

the different theories of the Hindus, if ho does not dwell 
among them ! 

Let ns now first suppose that Ltarga is right, that he 
has not stated the precise place in Maghu which the 
Seven Rbliis occupy, and let us suppose that this place 
was o° of Mag] in, which would correspond to o° of Leo 
fo r 0 u r tim e. IT 11 rt\ \ e r, bet. w ee n tl lo ti m e of Y u d h ish - 
tliira and the present year, i.r, the year r 34 o of Alex- 
ander, there is an interval of 3479 years. And lastly, 
let us suppose that Varahamihira is right in saying that 
the Seven UMiis dwell 600 years in each lunar station . 
Accordingly, they ought in the present year to stand in 
\y° iS y of "Libra, which is identical with io ,; ' 38' of SvatT. 
However, if we suppose that they stood in the midst of 
Maghft (not in the beginning), they ought at present 
to stand in 3 0 ^ of Yi&tkha, And if we suppose that 
they stood in the end of Uagha, they ought at present, 
to stand in rcr 38' of YillkhtL 

Hence it. is evident that the statement of the Kash- 
mirian calendar does not agree with the statement in the 
j S&'fhhitd, Likewise, if we adopt the rule of tho said 
calendar regarding the precession of the equinoxes, and 
reckon with Lb is measure backward, we do by no means 


fi'UELL ft 

KM limMtn 
a * nuicat 


Emm Sta- 
tion ftf ih# 
statements 

Jhfl position 
of tli a Great 
Hoar, 


ALBERUNPS INDIA, 


llll'lfi Of til B 
TTjirkn.'ifjjr^ 
t.:'' fi Lid the 

puflit.tQIL of 

till y OL'eat 
Hn;tr nt any 
time. 


arrive at Moghh as the lunar station In. which the Seven 
Push is stood in the time of Yndhishthira, 

Hitherto we used to think that in our time the revo- 
lution of the fixed stars is more rapid than in former 
times , and we tried to account lor this by peculiarities 
o! the shape of the celestial sphere. According to ns, 
they move one degree in 66 solar years* Therefore 
Yaruhaitiihira highly astonishes us s for, according to 
him, the rate of this motion would be one degree in 
forty-live years, i,e< much more rapid than at present, 
whilst his time precedes ours only by 525 years. 

The author of the canon Kanviuts&ra gives the fol- 
lowing rule for the computation of the motion of the 
Great Bear, and of the place which, at any given time, 
it occupies : — 

“ Subtract 821 from the Sakakirla. The remainder 
is the basis, i>e. the number of years above 4000 which 
have elapsed since the beginning of the Kaliyuga, 
t; Multiply the basis by 47, and add 68,000 to the 
product. Divide the sum by 10,000. The quotient re- 
presents the zodiacal signs at id fractions of them, i.r, 
the position of the Great Bear which was sought.” 

The addition of 68 r OOC, prescribed in this rule, must 
be the original position of the Great Bear at the be- 
ginning of the basis > multiplied by 10.000, If we 
divide 68,000 by 10,000, we get the quotient 6 * r Le. 
six zodiacal signs and twenty-four degrees of a seventh 
sign. 

It is evident that if wo divide the 10,000 by 47, the 
Great Bear has wandered through one zodiacal sign in 
2 1 2 years, 9 months, and 6 days, according to solar time. 
Accordingly it wanders through one degree of a sign 
in 7 years, 1 month, and 3 days, and through one lunar 
station in 94 years, 6 months, and 20 days. 

Now there is a great difference between the values of 
VaTiihamihira and those of Yittesvara, if there is not a 
fault, in the tradition. If we, by way of an example, 


CHAPTER XLV. 


393 


make si icli a computation for the present year (1030 
A. i l), we get 9“ 17' in the lunar station An in fid hit as 
the position of the Great Hear. 

The people of Kashmir believed that the Great Bear 
wanders through a lunar station in 100 years. There- 
fore the above-mentioned calendar says that of the 
present r.mUnnium of the motion of the Great Bear 
there is still a remainder of twenty -three years. 

.Mistakes and confusion such as we have here laid 
open arise, in the first pla.ee, from the want of the neces- 
sary skill in astronomical researches, and secondly, from 
the way of the Hindus of mixing up scientific questions 
with religions traditions. For the theologians believe 
that the Seven Kish is stand higher than the fixed stars, 
and they maintain that in each ntmimntara there will 
appear a new Manu, whose children will destroy the 
earth ; hut the rule will be renewed by India, as also 
the different classes of the angels and the Seven Kishis. 
The angels are necessary, for man kind must offer sacri- 
fices to them and must bring to the fire the shares for 
them ; and the Seven Hishisare necessary, because they 
must renew the Veda, for it perishes at tile end of each 
■mmmntara* 

Our information on this subject we take from the 
Vi$hnu-Purdna. From the same source we have taken 
the names of the Seven Kishis in each manmntava^ as 
exhibited by the following table : — 


Tlierlo^twa 
qpiu loti 3 
tilled sip 
with 

a * trtmomy „ 


F.i£<S 157- 


The Seven 
nihilism tliu 
diEferenl 

f or er a , 


Dlft jo 

5.TMiran^I 


Ttie fk-vtm kUhisj the RlHuU'ShPh]], m- hint; StiU's n( the Grent Hear in the MunTzintarag.. 


I 3 3 4 n G 7 


1 


In this Mani'antara thero iv?ih neither Indra nor the Seven Rishis t 

but only Manu- 


2 

fi>jasfcE4Jlbha 

Pnlua 

Datta 

Klriskabtm 

Novara 

Scor^ati (?) 

Yarn sea {[) 

5 



The Children of Yiaisktha- 



4 

Jyoti 

Dh&mau 

Prit.hu 

Kavya, 

Caitra and 
Agui 

Vti.raka 

Pivara 

5 . 

Hiranyuroiiian 

VfedaSrl 

RnrdEmci- 
Mho (!) 

A para (!) 

VedaMhu 

Subahu 

Tarjanya 

6 

Bumadhas 

Virajas 

Haviehmat 

Madtui 

AtmAman 

Sablshnu 

Carshaynh (!) 

7 

Vasishtha 

Kasyapa. 

Atri 

Jamadagni 

Gautama 

VigvftEu itra 

Bbaradvftja 

S 

Diptimat 

Gnlava 

Kfipu. 

A fivatLl Lilian 
the son of Droiia 

F&rdiara 

Yy&aa the son 
of Fur^aia 

Rishyasritiga 

9 

Bavaim 

Dyutimat. 

Havya 

Yasu 

Medhldhritl 

Jyoti^hmat. 

Batya 

IQ 

Haviskmal- 

Suiriti 

Satya 

Apiliiimfirti 

NS b bag a 

A pratl maiij as 

Suksbetra 

11 

Ni^oant 

Agnidhta 

Yapttfthnmt 

Vishnu 

Imiii 

Havishinaui 

Nagtifl 

12 

Tapasvin 

Sutaya 

Tapomftrti 

Taporati 

Tapodliriti 

Dyuti 

Iscftnyali (!) 

13 

Ninnoha 

Tattv.Lidai'-'jie-iL 

Uishprakampa 

N-frutsuka 

Dhfitioant 

Yyaya 

Sutapas 

J4 

Agidbft 

Suoi 

sukra or Yl>ou> 

Mstgadha 

Agnidhra 

Yuktasta 

Jit a 


394 ALliERUNI’S INDIA. 


( 395 ) 


CHAPTER XLVL 

ON N Alt A VAN A, [US APPEARANCE AT DIFFERENT TIMES, 
AND HIS NAMES, 

Narayaka is according to the Hindus a super natural 
power, which docs not on principle try to bring about 
the good by the good. t nor the bad by the bad, but to 
prevent the evil and destruction by whatever means 
happen to be available. For this force the good exists 
prior to the bad, but if the good does not properly develop 
nor is available, it uses the bad, this being unavoidable. 
In so doing, it may be compared to a rider who has got 
into the midst of a cornfield. When lie then comes 
back to his senses, and wants to avoid evil-doing and to 
get out of the mischief he has committed, he lias no 
other means but that of turning his horse back and 
riding out on the same road on which he has entered 
the field, though in going out he will do ns much mis- 
chief as be has done in entering, and even more. But 
there is no other possibility of making amends save 
this. 

The Hindus do not distinguish between I his force 
and the First Cmm of their philosophy. Its dwelling 
in the world is of such a nature that people compare 
it to a material existence, an appearance in body and 
colour, since they cannot conceive any other kind of 
appearance. 

Besides other times, Naruyana. has appeared at the 
end of the first manvantam. to take away l he rule of 
the worlds from Yiilakhilya (?), who had given it the 


Pflge tcjS. 


On tho 
nature of 
NftrAyafln. 


39® 


ALBBRUNPS INDIA . 


name, and wanted to take it into his own hands. 
Nrimyana came and handed it over to Satakratu, the 
performer of a hundred sacrifices, and made him 
Indra* 

Another time he appeared at the end of the sixth 
M&nvantara, when he killed the King Bali, the son of 
VIrocana, who ruled the whole world and had Venus 
as his yazir. On having heard from his mother that 
the time of his father had been much better than his 
time, since it was nearer the kriltitjWga, when people 
enjoyed more profound bliss and did not know any 
fatigue, he became ambitious and desirous of vying 
w ith Ins f ath er , The ref o re he com m en ced d on n g wor ks 
of piety, giving presents, distributing money, and per- 
forming sacrifices, which earn the ride of paradise and 
earth for him who finishes a hundred of them. When 
he was near this term, or had nearly finished the ninety- 
ninth sacrifice* the angels began to feel uneasy and to 
fear for their dignity , knowing that the tribute which 
men bring them would cease if they stood no longer in 
need of them. Now they united and went to Nsi.rft- 
yana, asking him to help them. He granted their wish, 
and descended to the earth, in the shape of YTimana. 
i.e* a man whose hands and feet are too short in com- 
parison with his body, and in consequence Ins figure is 
thought to be hideous. 

Kara van a came to the King Bali whilst he was offer- 
ing, his Brahmans standing round the fires, and Venus, 
his vasdr. standing before him. The treasure-houses 
had been opened and the precious stones had been 
thrown out in heaps, to be given as presents and alius. 
Now Yarn ana commenced to recite the Veda like the 
Brail mans from that part which is now called Sdmavcd/t, 
In a melancholy, impressive kind of melody, persuading 
the king to grant him liberally what he would wish 
an d de m ai 1 d . U pon this Venus sp ok e st eal th 1 1 y to him : 
“This is Nur&yana. He has come to rob thee of thy 


CHAPTER XL VI. 


397 


rule/ 3 ’ But the king was so excited that he did not 
mind the words of Yen its, and asked Y ft in ana what 
was Lis desire. Thereupon Yarn an a said, “As much 
as four paces of thy realm, that I may live there.’ J 
The king answered, Choose what von wish, and how 
you wish it;” and according to Hindu custom, he 
ordered water to be brought to pour it over his hands 
as a .sign of the confirmation of the order he had given* 
Now Venus, because of her love to the king, brought 
in the jug, but had corked the spout, so that no water 
should how out of it, whilst she closed the hole in the 
cork with the fat 4a grass of her ring-finger. But Venus 
had only one eye; she missed the hole, and now the 
water flowed out. In consequence, Yam ana made a 
pace towards east, another towards west, and a third 
towards above as far as Svarloka. As for the fourth 
pace, there was no more space in the world; lie made, 
by the fourth pace, the king a slave, putting bis foot 
between his shoulders as a sign of making him a slave, 
lie made him sink down into the earth as far as Pa tala, 
the lowest of the low. He took the worlds away from 
him, and handed the rule over to Purzuhdaru., 

The following occurs in the Vuhnu-Furdna /- — 

The King Maitrcya asked PanLsara about the yvfffts. 
Bo the latter answered; ‘They exist for the purpose 
that: Vishnu should occupy himself with something in 
them. In the Kyitayuga he comes in the shape of 
Kapila alone, for the purpose of spreading wisdom ; 
in Tretftyuga, in the shape of Rani a alone, for the pur- 
pose of spreading fortitude, to conquer the bad, and to 
preserve the three worlds by force and the prevalence 
of virtuous action ; in Dvftpara, in the shape of Vyksa, 
to divide the Veda into four parts, and to derive 
many branches from it. In the end of Dvftpara he 
appears in the shape of Yksudeva to destroy the giants ; 
in the Kaliy nga, in the shape of Kali, the son of 
J-sk-v (?) the Brahman, to kill all, and to make the 


P:igCl Itfl- 


Quotetiom 

jPWwfl-, 


tlcjtl Of tliM 

Vyflsu's ttf 

the seventh 
matt l ' cup - 
ftcr-ft. 


QnulatluU 

Ivom 

KiaAn-w 


398 A L BE R UNI'S I NDIA t 

cycle of the vttefua commence anew. That h his 
( V Lsli 11 u’ s ) occu pation / ” 

In another passage of the same book we read : 
[fi Vishnu, i.e. another name for N&riyana s comeg at the 
end of each dy&pwta to divide the Veda into four parts, 
because men are feeble and unable to observe the whole 
of id. In his face lie resembles Yyft&a,” 

We exhibit hie names in the following table, though 
they vary in different sources, enumerating the Yyasas 
who have appeared in the eaturyuyas of the present or 
seventh ■irtattvanlara which have elapsed : — 


1 

Svayambjtii 

16 

\ .'JsJibJj mjayJi 

•y 

PrajSp&tl 

i? 

Kritmujavn 

3 

Usanas 

iS 

UinajyeKhtha (?) 

4 


19 

B baradvil jii 

5 

Savitri 

20 

Gautama 

6 

Mritiyu 

21 

trttama 

7 

ludra 

22 

Hary atman 

8 

Yaelehtlm 

2-3 

Yeda^vy&sa 

0 

Sifosvabtt 

24 

VftjaHravau 

10 

Tfidbaman 


SomaliislmtH 

11 

Ttivrisha 

26 

HhArgara 

12 

BhamdvfVja 

37 

VfLLtntki 

13 

Anrariksha 

28 

Krishna 

] 4 

Yapra (?) 

29 

Asv p attbi\man the son 

15 

Trayy&rima 


of Drona 


Krishna Dvaipayana is Yyfisa the sou of Famsara, 
The twenty-ninth Yy&aa has not yet come, but will 
appear in future. 

The book Vishnu^ j)harma says; Hl The names of 
Hari, Lc. Nfrr&yana, differ in the yuga^. They are the 
following ; Vasudeva, Saiiikarshana, lVadyumna, and 
Aniruddba.^ 

I suppose that the author has not here preserved the 
proper sequence, for Yhsudeva belongs to the end of 
the four yagas* 

The same book says: ;t Also his colours differ in the 
yutja^ In the Kritayuga lie is white, in the Tretft- 
yuga red, in the Dvlpara yellow, the latter is the first 


CHAPTER XLVL 


399 


phase of His being embodied in human shape, and in 
the KaHynga he is black/’ 

These colours are something like the three primary 
forces of their philosophy, for they maintain that Satya 
is transparent white, Rajas red. and Ttimas black. We F: ^ e 
shall in a later part of this book give a description of 
his last appearance in the world. 


( 4°o ) 


A niLogiefl. njf 
tb a i>ourMG of 
nature tn 
the history 
oi mankind.. 


CHAPTER XL VII. 

DM VASTJDF.VA AND THE WATS Of THE BIIaEATA. 

The life of the world depends upon sowing and pro- 
creating. ISotii processes increase in the course of 
time, aud this increase is unlimited, whilst the world 
is limited. 

When a class of plants or animals does not increase 
any more in its structure., and its peculiar kind is estab- 
lished as a species of its own, when each individual of 
it does not simply come into existence once and perish, 
but besides procreates a being like itself or several 
together, and not only once but several times, then this 
will as a single species of plants or animals occupy the 
earth and spread itself and its kind over as much terri- 
tory as it can Cud. 

The agriculturist selects his corn, letting grow as 
much as he requires, and tearing out the remainder. 
The forester leaves those branches which he perceives 
to be excellent, whilst he cuts away all others. The 
bees kill those of their kind who only eat, but, do not 
work in their beehive, 

Nature proceeds in a similar way : however, it does 
not distinguish, for its action is under all circumstances 
one and the same. It allows the leaves and fruit of the 
trees to perish, thus preventing them from realising 
that result which they are intended to produce in the 
economy of nature. It removes them so as to make 
room for others. 

If thus the earth is ruined, or is near to be ruined, 


CHAPTER XLV1L 


401 


by having too many inhabitants, its? ruler— for it has a 
ruler , and his all-embracing care is apparent in every 
single particle of it — -sends it a messenger for the pur- 
pose of reducing the too great number and of cutting 
away all that is evil. 

A messenger of this kind is, according to the belief svy a Uu- 
of the Hindus, Yftsudeva, who was sent the last time in v^udeva. 
human shape, being called Vitsudeva. It was a time 
when the giants were numerous on earth and the earth 
was full of their oppression ; it tottered, being hardly 
able to bear the whole number of them , and it trembled 
from the vehemence of their treading. Then there was 
born a child in the city of Mat hum to V itsudeva by the 
sister of Karos a, at that time ruler of the town, They 
were a Jatt family, cattle-owners, low fiftdra people. 

3\amsa had learned, by a voice which he heard at the 
wedding of his sister* that he would perish at the hands 
of her child ; therefore he appointed people who were 
to bring him every child of hers as soon as she gave 
birth to it, and he killed all her children, both male and 
female. Finally, she gave birth to Balahhadra, and 
Y aiodSj the wife of the herdsman Nanda, took the 
child to herself, and managed to keep it concealed from 
the spies of Kamsa« Thereupon .she became pregnant 
an eighth time, and gave birth to V&smteva in a rainy 
night of the eighth, day of the black half of the month 
BhMr&pada, whilst the moon was ascending in the 
station Echini As the guards had fallen into deep 
sleep and neglected the watch y the father stole the 
child and brought it to Nandakvltt^ the stable of the 
cows of Nanda, the husband of Yafsoda, near Mathura, 
but separated from this place by the river Yamuna, 
V&sudeva exchanged the child for a daughter of Nan da, 
which happened to be born at the moment when Vasil- 
deva arrived with the boy* He brought this female 
child to the guards instead of his son. Kaihsa, the 
VOL. I. 2 c 


402 


A LBE R UN V S 1 A' D1A . 


JflJr 


Tiie names 
of 

in tli e 4 iff ev- 
ent ft'LL>lLth ^ 


ruler* wanted to kill the child, but she flew up into 
the air and disappeared , 

Vasudeva grew up under the care of his foster- 
mother Yasoda without her knowing that he had been 
exchanged for her daughter, but Kainsa got some ink- 
ling of the matter. Now he tried to get the child into 
his power by cunning plans, but all of them turned out 
against him. Lastly, Kamsa demanded from his parents 
that they should send him (Yfrsudeva) to wrestle in^his 
(Kamsal) presence. Now Yitsudeva began to behave 
overbearingly towards everybody. On the road he had 
already roused the wrath of his aunt by hurting a 
serpent which had been appointed to watch over the 
lotus flowers of a pond, for he had drawn a cord through 
its nostrils like a bridle. Further, he had killed bis 
fuller, because the latter had refused to lend 111 in clothes 
for the wrestling. He had robbed the girl who accom- 
panied him of the sandal -wood with which she was 
ordered to anoint the wrestlers. Lastly, lie had killed 
the rutting elephant which was provided for the pur- 
pose of killing him before the door of Kamsa. All this 
heightened the wrath of Kaihsa to such a degree, that 
his bile burst, and be died on the spot. Then Visit- 
deva, Ins sister's son, ruled in his stead. 

Vasu dev a has a special name in each month* His 
followers begin the months with Margaairsha.* and each 
month they begin with the eleventh day, because on 
this day YSsndeva appeared. 

- The following table contains the names of Vasudeva 
in the months : — 


CHAPTER XLVTT. 403 


Tha Months, 

Mrlrgasirsba 

Fausha 

Mfighn 

Fhalgnoa 

Caitra 

Vaisaltha 


The NnrncF ■■: 
VHtem Jevii. 


Ke&avn 

N^rilyana 

MMhava. 

Govitula 

Visiinu 

aMlmsfidaha 


TLis Mftnth:- 

Jyajshfeba 

Jbrfi&dha 

Si-rivatm 
HhsJ/1 rapn cia 
Alvayuja 
K&rttikn 


Tht! Niuriijs of 

Vftsudrvu. 

Tnvikj'amri 

VAmatia 

Sridliara 

IlflebSkesa 

Padnj&uAhhi 

D&modam 


Now the brother-in-law of the deceased Kamsa be- 
came angry, went rapidly to Mathura, took possession 
of the realm of Vasudeva, and banished him to the 
ocean. Then there appeared near the coast a golden 
castle called Barodi, and V&sudeva made it his resi- 
dence. 

The children of Kaurava ( i.e . Dhptar&shtm) had the 
charge of their cousins (the children of Pitndu). Dliri- 
tar&shtra received them and played dice with them, the 
last stake being their whole property. They lost more 
and more, until he laid upon them the obligation of 
expatriation for more than ten years, and of conceal- 
ment in the remotest part of the country, where nobody 
knew them. If they did not keep this engagement 
they would be bound to return into banishment for a 
like number of years. This engagement was carried 
out. but; finally came the time of their coining forward 
for battle* Now each party began to assemble their 
whole number and to sue for allies, till at last nearly 
innumerable hosts had gathered in the plain of Tftne- 
shar. There were eighteen ak^auhint Each party 
tried to gain Vils.ud.eva as ally, whereupon lie offered 
either himself or his brother Balabhadra together with 
an army. But the children of Pundn preferred him. 
Til ev w ere fi y 0 m en — Y u d h i si 1 tl l i ra, t he ir leader, Arjiin a, 
the bravest of them, Sahadeva, Bhimasena, and Xakuia* 
They had seven akshauhmi. whilst their enemies were 


•Continua- 
tion of the 

-* 1 iirv r»f 

V 4 nid*Tfl, 


404 


ALBERUNI’S INDIA, 


End of Wl;-u- 
d(2V:i and 
of tha five 
PAndu 
brother* . 


Page 303. 


much stronger. But lor the cunning devices of VWsu- 
devii and Ids teaching them whereby they might gain 
victory , they would have been in a less favourable 
s itu ati on t ban th eir eue m i e&. J3 n t n o w they con qu ere d ; 
all those 1 lost a were destroyed, and none remained ex- 
cept the live brothers. Thereafter Yftsudeva returned 
to liis residence and died, together witi^ his family, 
who were called Yfidava. Also the five brothers died 
before the year had reached its end, at the end of 
those wars. 

Y asudeva had concerted w ith Arj mm the arrangement 
that they would consider the quivering of the left arm 
or left eye as a mysterious intimation that there was 
something happening to him. At that time there lived 
a pious Rishi called Dnrvasa-s, Now the brothers and 
relations of Yusudeva were a rather malicious, incon- 
siderate set of people. One of them hid under his coat 
a new frying-pan, went to the anchorite, and asked him 
what would be the result of his pregnancy, jeering at 
the pious man. The latter said, ft ln thy belly there 
is something which will he the cause of thy death and 
that of thy whole elan.” When Y&sudeva heard this 
he became sorry, because he knew that these words 
would be fulfilled. He gave orders that the pan should 
be filed away and be thrown into the water. This 
was done. There was only a small part of it left, which 
the artisan who had done the filing considered as ic sig- 
nificant Therefore he threw it, as it was, into the 
water, A fish devoured it ; tlie fish was caught, and the 
fisherman found it in its belly* He thought it would 
be a good tip for his arrow. 

When the predestined time came, Yasudeva rested 
on the coast, under the shadow of a tree ? one of his feet 
being crossed over the other ; Hie fisherman took him 
for a gazelle, shot at him, and hit his right foot. This 
wound became the cause of the death of Yasudeva. At 
the same time the left side of Arjuna began to quiver. 


CHAPTER XL VII. 


405 

and than his arm. Now Ills brother Sahadeva gave 
orders that- he should never any more embrace anybody, 
that he might not be bereft of bis strength (?). Arjuna 
went to Vasudeva, but could not embrace him on account 
of the state in which he was, Yasndeva ordered bis 
how to be brought, and handed it over to A 1 j li 11 a, who 
tried his strength at it. Yasudeva ordered him to burn 
his body and the bodies of his relations when they bad 
died, and to bring away his wives from the castle, and 
then he died. 

Out of the tilings or bits of iron which had fallen off 
when the pan was Hied a bardi bush had grown. To 
this there came the YMavas, who tied together some 
bundles of its twigs to sit upon. Whilst they were 
drinking there arose a quarrel between them \ they 
beat each other with the bardi bundles, and killed each 
oilier. All this happened near the month of the river 
Sarsati, where it Mows into the sea, near the situation of 
SomamLth. 

Arjima had done all he had been ordered by V&att- 
deva. When he brought away the women, they were 
suddenly attacked by robbers. When, now, Arjuna was 
no longer able to bend his bow, he felt that bis strength 
was going. He whirled the bow in a circle above his 
head, and all who stood under the bow were saved, 
while the others were seized by the robbers. Now 
Arjuna and his brothers saw that life was no more of 
any use to them, therefore they emigrated to the north 
and entered the mountains, the snow of which never 
melts. The cold killed them one after the other, till 
at last only Yndhishthira remained. FTe obtained the 
distinction of being admitted to paradise, but before 
that lie was to pass through hell in consequence of the 
sole lie which he had spoken in bis life, at the request 
of bis brothers and of Yus n dev a. These were the words 
which he had spoken within hearing of the Brahman 
Drona : “ A^vattMman, the elephant, lias died*'’ He 


4o6 


,4 L B ER U NI >£ 1 R D I A . 


bad made a pause between AivaUhaman and the ele- 
phant , by which he had led Drona to belie v r e that he 
meant his son- Yu din shf. \ lira spoke to the angels : l ' li 
this mu at be, may rny intercession be accepted on be- 
ll alt of the people in hell ; may they be freed from it,” 
After this desire of his had been granted, lie went into 
paradise- 


C ) 


CHAPTER XLVIII, 

AS KXFLASATIOS OH THE MEASURE OF AS ABSHAUHISl 
Eaeli ttkskauhint ha 6 10 


t anffttai 


3 


S' 


p pt'ittf.nti 

Jp 

3 Viihhit' 

, vdhm& 

H 

3 fptnu. 

± tfana 

31 

3 ffutnw* 

, gulma- 

ST 

3 sentimufcha. 


1+ 

2 paiti. 

, prtfi 

PT 

I r(ithti. 


Ik chess, the latter is called rakk, whilst the Greeks 
call it chariot of war. It was invented by MavJcalus 
(Myrfcilos ?) in Athens^ and tlie Athenians maintain that 
they were the first, who rode on chariots of war. How- 
ever, before that time they had already been invented 
by Aphrodisios (&ic) the Hindu, when he ruled over 
Kgypt, about goo years after the deluge* They were 
drawn by two horses. 

The following is a tale of the G reeks : Ilephsestos 
loved Athene and desired to possess her, but she refused 
him, preferring to remain a virgin. Now he concealed 
himself in the country of Athens, and intended to seise 
her by force, but site pierced him with a spear and then 
lie let her go. From a drop of his blood, which had 
dropped to the earth, there grew Ericbthonios. lie ao 3 
arrived on a chariot like the tower of the sun, the 
holder of the reins riding together with him* Similar 
to this aro the customs of the hippodrome, as they exist 
in our time* the running and driving with carriages in 
the race. 


ALBBRUNPS INDIA. 


4 u£ 

A ratha comprehends besides* one elephant, three 
riders, and. five footmen. 

All these orders and divisions are necessary for the 
preparation for battle, for pitching camp and breaking 
up cauip. 

An ahshtmhini has 21,870 chariot s, 21,870 elephants, 
65.610 riders, 109,350 footmen. 

To each cl Lari ot there belong four horses and their 
conductor, the master of the chariot, armed with arrows, 
his two companions armed with spears, a guard who 
protects the master from behind, and a cart-wright, 

0 ri each elephant there sits its conductor, and behind 
him the vice-conductor, a man who has to goad the 
elephant behind the chair, the master, armed with 
arrows, in the chair, and together with him his two 
spear-throwing companions and bis jester, hauJima {?)., 
who on other occasions runs before him. 

Accordingly the number of people who ride on chariots 
and elephants is 284,323 (sic). The number of those 
who ride on horses is 87,480. The number of elephants 
in an aksktmMni is 21,870; the number of chariots, 
too, is 21,870- the number of horses is 153,090; the 
number of men, 459,283. 

The sum-total of the living beings of one ah^ishini^ 
elephants, horses, and men, is 634.243 ; the same num- 
ber for eighteen akshmfhfaii is 1 1,4 r 6,3 74, viz* 393,660 
elephants, 2,755*620 horses, 8,267,094 men. 

This is an explanation of the akskauh/inij and of its 
single parts. 


END OF VOL. I. 


Frill ted by EaL lamthuJ, HAn sos & Co. 
Edinburgh ^ London, 













- 











COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY L|gf?ARIES 



V m l 

o .2 





MAY 9 1962 


