Full text of "Al-BIRUNI'S INDIA" vol. II





CoJur'hia TJnji -r 











TRUBNER'S 


ORIENTAL SERIES. 



ALBERUII’S INDIA 


AH ACCOUNT OF THE RELIGION, PHILOSOPHY. LITERATURE, 
GEOGRAPHY, CHRONOLOGY, .4 STS ON OH Y, CUSTOMS, 
LAWS AND ASTROLOGY OF INDIA 
ABOUT A. D. 1030. 



an JEiitfleb B&ftiott, with Hot c& and Surtees, 


De + EDWARD C. SACHAU 


Proftter>r in the Royal Udh’erstty of IScl'tIn, And Principal cif the Seminary for 
Oriental r^ngnases; Member of the Royal Academy of Herlfn, ami 
Corresponding Member of the Imperial Academy of Vienna 
Honorary 51 ember of the Asiatic Society of Oreat Eritain ami Ireland, London, 
and Gi the American Oriental Society, Cuulirldge, U-ft.A. 


IN TWO VOLUMES. 


VOL. II. 


LONDON 

KEG AN PAUL, TRENCH, Tit CBN EH & CO. L™ 

DRYDEN EOUBE, OEHKAHD STREET, W b 

1910 


B9 3 .nftn l 
Pi 
v 


^ £■ 

'T’j’ii'. rP^Jii ij/im-nfl/flf«m "jw-r/ r>/ an r<*n- rrd 


Trintcil by JiALLASIYSE, LiANStiK Co. 
At ttatr lklkatyn« i'rtsE, Edinburgh 




A LB lilt fr NT'S INDIA. 


CHAPTER XLLX. 

A SUMMARY DESCRIPTION OF THE ERAS, 

The eras ser ve to fix certain moments of time which are 
mentioned in some historical or astronomical connection* 
The Hindus do not consider it wearisome to reckon with 
huge numbers, but rather enjoy it. Still, in practical 
use, they are compelled to replace them by smaller 
(more handy) ones. 

Of their eras we mention — 

E. The beginning of the existence of Brahman. 

2 . The beginning of the day of the present nyck- 
t heme ron of Brahman, L*:. the beginning of the kalpa* 

3. The beginning of the seventh m&nmnta/ra, in 
which we arc now. 

4. The beginning of the twenty -eighth mtimjiiga, in 
which we are now. 

The beginning of the fourth of the present 
mim'jptgti, called kali Mi a, i.e. the time of Kah. The 
whole tfma is called after him, though, accurately 
speaking, Ms time falls only in the last part of the 
y-uffa. Notwithstanding, the Hindus mean by kalikdla 
the beginning of the kaliyv.ga. 

6. P&ndam-Mla, ie. the time of the life and the wars 
of Bharata, 

AH these eras vie with each other in antiquity, the 

VOL, a. A 


Fugs 503. 
Er.t mm Grit- 
tiftii vt 
of the eraa 
of L tie WlL- 
du.i. 


2 


ALBERUNFS INDIA. 


The aathtfr 
adopts t he 
ycitr 400 eJ 
YiWiliijini 

•a test-yum*. 


Vage 204. 


E.nv muuh 
1 i-f tlmi tlfe ef 
BmbUi] 
lute «lup*is<l 
u,c.Sfjr<l i li ” to 
the Vhhrv- 


one going buck to a still more remote beginning than 
the other, and the an ms of years which they afford go 
beyond hundreds, thousands, and higher orders of num- 
bers. Therefore not only astronomers, but also other 
people, think It wearisome and impractical to use them , 
I11 order to give an idea of these eras, we shall use 
as a first gauge or point of comparison that Hiticln 
year the great bulk of which coincides with the year 
400 of Yazdaymh This number consists only of hun- 
dreds, not of units and tens, and by this peculiarity 
it is distinguished from nil other years that might 
possibly be chosen. Besides, it is a memorable time ; 
for the breaking of the strongest pillar of the religion T 
the decease of the pattern of a prince, Mahmud, the 
lion of tho world, the wonder of his time — may (>od 
have mercy upon him [ — took place only a short time, 
less than a year, before it. Tho Hindu year precedes 
the Nan ribs or new years day of this year only by 
twelve days, and the death of tho prince occurred pre- 
cisely ten complete Persian months before it. 

Now, presupposing this our gauge as known, we shall 
compute the years for this point of junction, which li- 
the beginning of the corresponding Hindu year, for the 
end of all years which come into question coincides 
with it, and the Naurbz of the year 40a of Yuzdajird 
falls only a little later (viz. twelve days). 

The book Vish^-DImrrm says: “ Vajra asked Mfi.r- 
kandeya how much of the life of Brahman had elapsed ; 
whereupon the sage answered : f That which has elapsed 
is S years, 5 months, 4 days, 6 mmimntaras, 7 soAhdhi^ 
27 catv/ryv.gaR) and 3 yugas of the twenty-eighth catvr- 
yu{ftt. and 10 tllrya-y ears up to the time of the tistxmt-fAha 
’which thou hast offered/ He who knows the details of 
this statement and comprehends them duly is a mt[y:- 
man, and the mye- is he who serves the only Lord and 
strives to reach the neighbourhood of his place, which Is 
called Pt mm icvpa d af 


CHAPTER XLIX, 


3 


Presupposing this statement to be known, and refer- 
ring the reader to our explanation of the various mea- 
sures of time which we have given in former chapters, 
we offer the following analysis. 

Of the- life of li rah man there have elapsed before our 
gauge 26,2 15,73,2948, 132 of our years* Of the nych- 
themeron of Brahman, Le. of the Icalpa of the day, there 
have elapsed 1,972,9.48 :132, and of the seventh manvan- 
tara 120,532,132. 

The latter is also the date of the imprisoning of the 
King Balia for it happened in the first mpny^ga of the 
seven th ma nrant ara „ 

In all chronological dates which we have mentioned 
already -and shall still mention, we only reckon with 
complete years, for the Hindus are in the habit of dis- 
regarding fractions of a year. 

F11 rth er * th e Vishm * t ■ m < t say s : £ s Mark andey a 

says, in answer to a question of Vajra: ; I have already 
lived as long as Co kaipae and 6 m-anmntaras of the 
seventh Jadpa, 23 trd&ywfjtis of the seventh manvantam. 
In the twenty -fourth tretdipif/a Ran] a killed Havana, 
and Lak&hmana, the brother of Mma, killed Kumbha- 
kania, the broth er of Havana, The two subjugated all 
the Raksbasas, At that time Valmiki, the Hishi, com- 
posed the story of Rama and Mm ay an a and eternalised 
it in his books. It was 1 who told it to Yndhishthir&j 
the son of Hindu, in the forest of Kumyakavanad ” 

The author of the Vishnu Bhwifta reckons here with 
tretdflfugas* first, because the events which he mentions 
occurred in a certain lf€tdtjnga } and secondly, because it 
is more convenient to reckon with a simple unit than 
with such a unit as requires to be explained by reference 
to its single quarters. Besides, the latter part of the 
h'ddyn/fa is a more suitable time for the events men- 
tioned than its beginning, because it is so much nearer 
to the age of evil-doing (v, i, pp. 379, 3 So )- doubt, 
the date of Rama and Ram ay ana is known among the 


TIlci time nf 
Eftni;! ac- 
C^rdtuj- tii 
Vithnix 
1 


4 


ALB ER UN IKS I N DIA , 


i Tow much 
time has 

drill*: :1 ljc.'- 

f fil'd O of t'ho 
present 

IV,:- 

ui:i jvI imp to 
r it lisa "lunj 
jBiahiaa- 
eupta. 


F;i^a aqg- 


How mug]i 
time ho a 
elapsed of 

t HO QHVffHl,t 
fctl.ijtpXflfl. 


Hindus but T for my part have not been able to ascer- 
tain it. 

Twenty -three catifttyttgas are 99* 360,000 years, 
and, together with the time from the beginning of a 
mtnryuija till the end of the iteidyuga^ 102,384*000 
years. 

If we subtract this number of years from the number 
of years of the seventh wiaipfjimt&rtf- that have elapsed 
before our gauge-year. viz. 120,532,132 (v, p, 3). we get 
the remainder of 18,148,132 years. i.e+ so many years 
before our gauge-year at the conjectural date of Kama; 
and this may suffice, as long as it is not supported 
by a trustworthy tradition. The here -mentioned year 
corresponds to the 3.892, T 3 2d year of the 28th cafatr- 
yu;ja. 

All these computations rest on the measures adopted 
by Brahmagupta. He and Pnlisa agree in this, that 
the number of Icalpas which have elapsed of the life of 
Brahman before the present kalpff 1* 6068 (equal to 8 
years, 5 months, 4 days of Brahman), But they differ 
from each other in converting this number into rat if r- 
yugas, According to Phlisa, it is equal to 6,116,544; 
according to Brahmagupta, only to 6,068,000 ratnr- 
yugas. Therefore, if we adopt the system of Pulisa, 
reckoning I ffi'mvantam as 72 eatmyugm without 
mmdfd, 1 kalpa as 100S caturyufjiis, and each yuga as 
the fourth part of a caturyugtt, that, which has elapsed 
of the life of Brahman before onr gauge-year is the 
sum of 26, 435456,304,132(1) years, and of the halpa 
there have elapsed 1,986,124,132 years, of the manmn* 
trura 119,884,132 years* and of the m&nnptfja 3,244. 1 32 
years. 

Regarding the time which has elapsed since the 
beginning of the Jcaliyuga, there exists no difference 
am on 11 ting to wl 1 o3 e years „ A ccord i n g to b oth Brah m a- 
gupta and Pulisa, of the kaliguga there have elapsed 
before our gauge-year 4132 years, and between the 


CHAPTER XLIX. 


5 


wars of Bhiirata and our gauge-year there have elapsed 
3479 years. The year 4132 "before the gauge-year is 
the epoch of the kaliMla, and the year 3479 before the 
gauge-year is the epoch of the PdMda/vakdla, 

The Hindus have an era called Kdlayavana, regard- 
ing which I have not been able to obtain full infor- 
mation, They place its epoch in the end of the last 
ihsdpdrayuga, T h e h ore- m entio n e d Y a van a (.) MK") 
severely oppressed both their country and their religion. 

To date by the he re- mentioned eras requires in any 
case vast numbers, since their epochs go back to a most 
remote antiquity. For this reason people have given 
up using them, and have adopted, instead the eras 
of— 

(1.) Hri Ifarsha. 

(2.) ViLntinddiiya. 

(3.) Haka> 

{4.) Valabh^j and 
(S>) Gupta* 

The Hindus believe regarding Sri Harsh a that he 
used to examine the soil in order to see what of hidden 
treasures was in its interior* as far down as the seventh 
earth ; that, in fact, Ire found such treasures j and that, 
in consequence, ho could dispense with oppressing his 
subjects (by taxes, &c>). His era is used in Mathura and 
the country of Kan op Between Sri Harsh a and Yikra- 
madltya there is an interval of 400 years, as I have been 
told by some of the inhabitants of that region. How- 
ever in the Kashmirian calendar I have read, that Sri 
H arsha was 664 years later than Yikramaditya. In 
face of this discrepancy I am in perfect uncertainty ? 
which to the present moment has not yet been cleared 
up by any trustworthy information. 

Those who use the era of YikramMitya live in the 
southern and western parts of India. It is used in the 
following way : 342 are multiplied by 3, which gives 


Tin; era 
Ti&l aya Vann. 


Era of Si i 
Barabii. 


Era ci I Vik- 
raiiiiul s ty a. 


6 


A LB ER V NP S INDIA, 


The SiAkii-. 
kilfcrtr 


the product 1026. To this number you add the years 
which Ini vo elapsed, of the current sha&hfyabda or sexa- 
gesimal sammtsara t and the sum is the corresponding 
year of the era of Yikramaditym I11 the! book Srud- 
h.ava by Mahadeva I find as his name Candrah 4 ja. 

As regards this method of calculation, we must first 
say that it is rather awkward and unnatural, for if they 
began with 1026 as the basis of the calculation, as they 
begin— without any apparent necessity — with 342, this 
would serve the same purpose* And, secondly, admit- 
ting that the method is correct as long as there is only 
one skaskbyabda in the date, how arc wc to reckon if 
there is a number of sliasbf^fi^ f 

The epoch of the ora of Saha or Sakakala fails (35 
years later than that of Vikramadirya. The re-rue n- 
tkmed Saka tyrannised over their country between the 
rlvor Sindli and the ocean, after he had made A rya- 
varta in the midst of this realm hid. dwelling-place. 
He inter dieted the Hindus from con side ring and repre- 
senting them selves as anything but Sakas, Some main- 
tain that lie was a Sudra from the city of At man sura ; 
others maintain that he was not a Hindu at all, and that 
he had come to India from the west. The Hindus had 
much to suffer from him, till at last they received help 
from the east, when Yikrainuditya marched against him, 
put him to flight and killed him in the region of Ear nr, 
between Multftn and the castle of Lon'L Now this date 
became famous, as people rejoiced in the news of the 
death of the tyrant, and was used as the epoch of an 
era, especially by the astronomers. They honour the 
conqueror by adding Sri to his name, so as to say Sri 
VikramMitya. Since there is a long interval between 
the era which is called the era of Yikramaditya (v. 
p. 5) and the killing of !^aka, we think that that Vik- 
ramMitya from whom the era has got its name is not 
identical with that one who killed Baku, but only a 
namesake of his. 


CHAPTER XU X. 


7 


The era of Valabha is called go from Yalabha. the ruler 
of the town V alabk i 3 nearly 30 yojanas south of Anhil- 
v 3 .ra. The epoch of this era falls 241 years later than 
the epoch of' the 6aka era. People use it in this way* 
They first put down the year of the Sakakiila, and 
then subtract from it the cube of 6 and the square of 
5 (216 H- 25 = 241), The remainder is the year of the 
Yalabha era. The history of Yalabha is given in its 
proper place (of. chap, xvii.’h 

As. regards the Guptakala, people say that the Guptas 
were wicked powerful people, and that when they 
ceased to exist this date was used as the epoch of an 
era. It seems that Yalabha was the last of them, be- 
cause the epoch of the era of the Guptas falls, like 
that, of the Yalabha era. 241 years later than the Saka- 
killa. 

The era of the astronomers begins 587 years later than 
the Sakakala. On this era is based the canon Kkanda- 
khddyaka by Brahmagupta, which among Muhammadans 
is known as Al-arhand. 

Now, the year 40Q of Yfizdaprtl, which we have 
chosen as a gauge, corresponds to the following years 
of the Indian eras 1 — 

( 1) To the year 14S8 of the era of Sri Marsha, 

(2) To the year roS8 of the era of Yikramaditya, 

(3) To the year 953 of the Sakakfda, 

(4) To the year 712 of the Yalabha era, which is 

Identical with the Guptakuki, 

{5) To the year 3 66 of the era of the canon K/amd-a- 

khddmka t 

(6) To the year 526 of the era of the canon PaTim- 

sukUiAntikd by Varuhanhhira, 

(7) To the year 132 of the era of the canon Kara,- 

nasdra ; and 

(8) To the year 65 of the era of the canon Karan a- 

tilaka. 


Eit+ of 
VakLbSia. 


Fa&c 




Era- of Uie 
aafcrtttiO- 

tli crs. 


CompiidMH 

<4 

of tho f h- 

dtrtn VT-MS 
with the 
test-yew. 


ALBERUNFS INDIA. 


S 

The eras of the here-mentioned mnones are such as 
the authors of them considered the most suitable to be 
used as cardinal points In astronomical and other cal- 
cnlations*. whence calculation may conveniently extern! 
forward or backward. Perhaps the epochs of these eras 
fall within the time when the authors in question them- 
selves lived, but it is also possible that they fall within 
a time anterior to their lifetime. 

onthQpr-pv Common people in India date by the years of a cen- 
hihi-LbiiiR- h? tennium > which they call saravatsmn. If a centennimn 
Is finished, they drop it, and simply begin to date by a 
new one* This era is called lokahlla t i.e r the era of 
the nation at large, Rut of this era people give such 
totally different accounts, that I have no means of 
making out the truth. In a similar maimer they 
also differ among themselves regarding the beginning 
of (be year. On the latter subject I shall communicate 
what I have heard myself, hoping meanwhile that one 
day we shall be able to discover a. rule in this apparent 
confusion. 

duth™* Those who use the Saka era, the astronomers, begin 
the year with the month Caitra, whilst the inhabitants 
of Kanir, which is conterminous with Kashmir, begin 
it w ith the man i h R 1 1 fid rapad a . T ] i c sn m e ] ;eopl e con n t 
our gauge -year (400 Yasdajird) as the eighty-fourth 
year of an era of theirs. 

All the people who inhabit the country between 
Bardari and Marigala begin the year with the month 
K fir ttika, and they count the gauge-year us the noth 
year of an era of theirs* The author of the Kashmirian 
calendar maintains that the latter year corresponds to 
the sixth year of a new cenUnnmra^ and this, indeed, is 
the usage of the people of Kashmir. 

The people living in the country Nirahara, behind 
MfirkmLa. as far as the utmost frontiers of Tfikeshar and 
Lohavar, begin the year with the month Mfirgasirsha, 
and reckon our gauge -year as the 1 oStli year of their 


CHAPTER XL IX* 


9 


era. The people of Lanhaga^ ie. Lamghun, follow their 
example, 1 have been told by people of Multan that 
this system is peculiar to the people of Sindh and 
Kannj, and that they need to begin the year with the 
new moon of MUrgaStrsha, but that the people of Multan 
only a few years ago had given up this system, and 
bad adopted the system of the people of Kashmir, and 
followed their example in beginning the year with the 
new moon of Caitra. 

I have already before excused myself on account of 
the imperfection of the information given in this chap- 
ter. For we cannot oiler a strictly scientific account of 
the eras to which it is devoted, pimply because in them 
we have to reckon with periods of time far exceeding a 
cmtenniwn, (and because all tradition of events farther 
back than a hundred years is confused (v, p, 8),) So 
I have myself seen cho roundabout way in which they 
compute the year of the destruction of fWmnnth in the 
year of the Hijra 416, or 947 Sakakala, .First, they 
write down the number 242, then under it 6o6, then 
under this 99. The sum of these numbers is 947, or 
the year of the Sakai villa. 

Now I am inclined to think that the 242 years have 
elapsed before the beginning of their centennial system, 
and that they have adopted the latter together with 
the G-u ptak ala ; further, that th e number 606 represents 
compile smnvatsaras or centennials, each of which they 
must reckon as 101 years; lastly, that the 99 years 
represent that time which bas elapsed of the current 
cmtemimm. 

That this, indeed, Is the nature of the calculation is 
confirmed by a leaf of a canon composed by Durlabha 
of Multan, which I have found by chance. Here the 
author says : L L First write 8 48 and add to it the laukika- 
Ijdla, it?, the era of the people, and the sum is the 
Sakakftla.” 

If we write the first year of the SakakAla correspond- 


FrtpliUil- 

mode of 
iMUitf to 
use annul# 
ilio Hindus 
ujid critli- 
ciAttift there- 
035. 


P;Lj?e 107 . 


TO 


ALBERUNFS INDIA 


ing to our gauge-year, viz, 953, and subtract 848 from 
it, the remainder, 105, is the year of the laukihi-Mla, 
whilst the destruction of Soman nth falls in the ninety- 
eighth year of the cmtemduvi or lauJrika-Mla. 

Durlabha says, besides, that the year begins with the 
month Miirgasirsha., but that the astronomers of Muir fin 
begin it with Caitra. 

The Hindus had kings residing in Kabul, Turks who 
were said to be of Tibetan origin. The first o£ them, 
Harhatakirn came into the country and entered a cave 
in Kabul, which none could enter except, by creeping 


on hands and knees. The cave had water, and besides 
he deposited their victuals for a certain number of 
days. It is still known in our time* and is called Vm\ 
People who consider the name of Barhatakin as a good 
omen enter the cave and bring out some of its water 
with great trouble. 

Certain troops of peasants were working before the 
door of the cave. Tricks of this kind can only be 
carried out and become notorious, if their author tins 


made a secret arrangement with somebody else ---hi 
fact, with confederates. Now these had induced per- 
sons to work there continually day and night m turns, 
so that the place was never empty of people, 

Some days after he had entered the cave, he began 
to creep out of it in the presence of the people, who 
looked on him as a new-born baby. He wore Turkish 
dress, a short tunic open in front, a high bat, boots and 
arms. Now people honoured him as a being of mira- 
culous origin, who had been, destined to bo king, and in 
fact he brought those countries under his sway and 
ruled thorn under the title of a shdJdya of KdbnL 
The rule remained among his descendants for gene- 
rations., the number of which is said to be about 
sixty* 

Unfortunately the Hindus do not pay much attention 
to the historical order of things, they are very careless 


CHAPTER XLIX. 


3 I 

in relating the chronological succession of their kings, 
and when they are pressed for information and are 
at a loss, not knowing what to say, they invariably 
take to tale-telling. But for this, we should com- 
municate to the reader the traditions which we have 
received from some people among them. T have 
been told that, the pedigree of tins royal family, 
written on silk, exists in the fortress Nagwrkot, 
and 1 much desired to make myself acquainted 
with it, but the thing was impossible for various 
reasons. 

One of this series of kings was Kauik, the same who 
is said to have built the vihdra (Buddhistic monastery) 
of Purushayar. It is called, after him, iCanik-eaiiya* 
People relate that the king of Kanoj had presented to 
him, among other gifts, a gorgeous and most singular 
piece of cloth. Now Kanik wanted to have dresses 
made out of it for himself, but his tailor had not the 
courage to make them, for he said, “There is (in the 
embroidery) the figure of a human foot, and whatever 
trouble I may take, the foot will always lie between the 
shoulders*” And that means the same as we have 
already mentioned in the story of Bali, the son of 
Virocana (ij\ a sign of subjugation, ch i. p, 397), Now 
rCanik felt, convinced that the ruler of Kanoj had 
thereby intended to vilify and disgrace him, and in 
hot haste he set. out with his troops marching against 
him. 

When the rdi heard this, lie was greatly perplexed, 
for he had no power to resist Kanik* Therefore he 
consulted his Yazir, and the latter said; “You have 
roused a man who was quiet before, and have done un- 
becoming things. Now cut off my nose and lips, let 
me bo mutilated, that. I may find a cunning device; for 
there is no possibility of an open resistance.” The rdi 
did with him as lie had proposed, and then lie went off 
to the frontiers of the realm. 


TIlu atury ijf 

Kansk. 


12 


ALBERUNPS INDIA. 


There fie was found by the hostile army, was recog- 
nised and brought, before Kauik, who asked what was 
the matter with him. The Vaair said: st I tried to 
dissuade him from opposing you, and sincerely advised 
him to be obedient to you. Ho., however* conceived a 
suspicion against me and ordered me to be mutilated, 
fhnee then he has gone, of his own accord, to a place 
which a man can only reach by a very long journey 
when ho marches on the high road, but which lie may 
easily reach by undergoing the trouble of crossing an 
intervening desert, supposing that lie can carry with 
himself water for so and so many days*” Thereupon 
Kan Ik answered: “The latter is easily done.** He 
ordered water to be carried along, and engaged the 
Vazvr to show him the road. The Vazfr marched be- 
fore the king and led hint into a boundless desert. 
After the number of days had elapsed and the road did 
not come to an end, the king asked the Vaz'ir what was 
now to be done. Then the Yazir said: “No blame 
attaches to me that J tried to save my master and to 
destroy his enemy. The nearest road leading out of 
this desert is that on which you have come. Now do 
with me as you like* for none will leave this desert 
alive.” 

Then Kauik got on Ms horse and rode round a de- 
pression in the soil. In the centre of it he thrust his 
spear into the earth, and lot water poured from it in 
sufficient quantity for the army to drink from and to 
draw from for the march hack. Upon this the Yazir 
said: <f I had not directed my cimnitig scheme against 
powerful angels, but against feeble men. As things 
stand thus* accept my intercession for the prince, my 
benefactor, and pardon Mm.” Kauik answered: “I 
F-^o*dS. march back from this place. Thy wish is granted to 
thee. Thy master has already received what is due to 
him,” Kauik returned out of the desert, and the Vazir 
went back to his master, the rdi of Kanoj. There he 


CHAPTER XLIX + 


13 


found that on the same day when Kan 3 k had thrust 
liis spear into- the earth, both the hands and feet had 
fallen off the body of the r&t* 

The last king of this race was Lgtfaltirmtln, and his End of ti 10 
Vazir was Kallar, a Brahman. The latter had been for- ?,i,^ana" 
tn nate, in so far as he had found by accident hidden 
treasures, which gave him much influence and power, ( b ,j w 6L r- 
In consequence, the last king of this Tibetan house, 
after it had held the royal power for so long a period, 
let it by degrees slip from his hands. Besides, Lag a- 
turinan had bad manners and a worse behaviour, on 
account of which people complained of- him greatly 
to the Yazir. Now the Yazir put him in chains and 
imprisoned him for correction, but then he himself 
found ruling sweet, Ids riches enabled him to carry out 
his plans, and so he occupied the royal throne. After 
him ruled the Brahman kings Sam and (Sam ant a). 

KamahX Bhim (Bhlma), Jaipal (Jayapfda), Ananda- 
paU, Tarojan&p&la (Trilocanap^la). The latter was 
killed A.IL 4T2 (A-n. I 02 l) t and his son Bhimapfda five 
years later (ajj. 1026}. 

This Hindu Sh&hiya. dynasty is now extinct, and of 
the whole house there is no longer the slightest rem- 
nant in existence. We must say that, in all their 
grandeur, they never slackened in the ardent desire of 
doing that which is good and right, that they were men 
of noble sentiment and noble bearing. I admire the 
following passage in a letter of Anandapfila, which he 
wrote to the prince MahinCul, when the relations be* 
tween them were already strained to the utmost: “I 
have learned that the Turks have rebelled against you 
and are spreading in Khurasan. If you wish, I shall 
come to you with 5000 horsemen, ro,OGO foot- soldiers, 
and 100 elephants, or, if you wish, 1 shall send you 
my son with double the number. In acting thus, I 
do not speculate on the impression which this will 
make on yon, \ have been conquered by you, and 


14 A LB £ RUNTS INDIA w 

therefore I do not wish that another man should 
conquer you.” 

The same prince cherished the bitterest hatred against 
the Muhammadans from the time when his son was 
made a prisoner, whilst his son Taropnapala (Triloca- 
nap&Ia) was the very opposite of his father. 


( IS ) 


CHAPTER L. 

HOW MANY STAG-CYCLES THERE AKE' BOTH IN A KALPA 
AND TN A u CATURYUG A. ” 

It is one of the conditions of a kalpa that in it- the 
planetei, with their apsides and nodes, must unite in 
o° of Aries, is. in the point of the vernal equinox. 
Therefore each planet makes within a Irdpa a certain 
number of complete revolutions or cycles. 

These star-cycle?: as known through the canon of 
A Kazan and Yakub I bn Tank, were derived from a 
Hindu who came to Bagdad us a member of the politi- 
cal mission which Sindh sent to the Kbalif AlmansfLr, 
AM. 154 ( = A-iX 771). If we compare these secondary 
statements with the primary statements of the Hindus, 
we discover discrepancies, the cause of which is not. 
known to me. Is their origin due to the translation 
of Alfaaarl ami Yakub? or to the dictation of that 
Hindu ? or to the fact that afterwards these computa- 
tions have been corrected by Brahmagupta, or some one 
else ? For, certainly, any scholar who becomes aware 
of mistakes in astronomical computations and takes an 
interest in the subject, will endeavour to correct them, 
as, e.tj. Muhammad I bn IsM.k of Sarakhs has done. 
Fur he had discovered in the computation of Saturn a 
falling back behind real time (i.c., that Saturn, accord- 
ing to this computation, revolved slower than it did in 
reality). iSTow he assiduously studied the subject, till 
ah last he was convinced that his fan It did not originate 


The tradi- 
tion L>f 1 1"; l 
afti'r ami 
YiikiUj Jin, 
TArtk, 


Mu MKvmiii.il 
[ I 'LL I -mk o r 
.^'iraklis, r 


[6 


AL BE RUNTS INDIA- 


I'rom the equation (i,e* from the correction of the places 
of the stars, the computation of their mean places). 
Then he added to the cycles of Saturn one cycle more, 
and compared his calculation with the actual motion of 
the planet, till at last ho found the calculation of the 
cycles completely to agree with astronomical observa- 
tion. In accordance with this correction he states the 
star- cycles in his canon* 

Ai;v:l 1 j)i.:uu Urahmsgupta relates a different theory regarding the 
cycles of the apsides and nodes of the moon, on the 
authority of Aryabhata. We quote this from Brah- 
magupta, for we could not read it in the original work 
s 1 f of Aryabhata., but only in a quotation In the work of 
,'w.n.r c ® rahmag up t a. 

p 1 ^ a The fol lo wi n g tab! e contains al 1 th ese tradition s , whicl i 

will facilitate the study of them, if Cod will ! 



The planete. 

Number of Uieir 
revolutions in 
a Kilpfi. 

N umber ai the 
] W(l] EEtimiFI Iff 
their Upsides. 

.Number of tht: vu- 
VrjJutiaiiS r>f tb oi r 
nodes. 

Shi 

] ► 

1 Brahmagupta 

4,320*000,000 

480 

[■ 488,105.858 

Has no node. 
23^311,168 


The translation 
oE Alfazari - 

I 

232,312,138 


Aryabhata 

488,219,000 

232,316,000 

o 

T] ie anoi mdi Stic 


57,265,194,143 

The ai'.0EualisLiii 

S 

revolution of 
the in Don ac- 
cording to 
i Brahmagupta 

J>. 

I-" 

m 

revolution of the 
moon h here 
treated as iE it 
were the ap&la, 
being the differ - 
enee between the 
motion of the 
moon and that 
oftheapsi@, {See 
the notes . ) 

Mars 

2 1 296,828,522 

292 

267 

Mercury . 

<7>936, 998,984 

m 

52 . 

J upiter . 

364,, 225,455 

hi 

h 

Venus 

f Brahmagupta 
£ The translation 

7.022, 389,492 
146,567,298 
146,569,284 

hi 

S93 

11 

of AlfazrirL 

The correction 
of Alsaratbai 

146,569,238 

41 

584 

The fixed stars 

I20.UGO according to til* translation of 
Alfaa&rt 


CM AFTER L. 


17 


The computation of these cycles rests on the meats 
motion of the planets* As a is, according to 

Brahmagupta, the oiie-thousandth part of a kalpa, we 
have only to divide these cycles by looo, and the 
quotient is the number of the star-cycles in one miwr- 
yvjja. 

Likewise, if we divide the cycles of the table by 
r q,qog 1 1 1 o qn ot i i m 1; i s 1 1 i ■: ■ nu m be v o f the st ar-cy cle s i u 
a kalvipifja, for this is one-tenth of a caturyufja. The 
fractions which may occur in those quotients are raised 
to wholes, to cat ury ur/as or IcaUy-ugas, by being multi- 
plied by a number equal to the denominator of the 
fraction. 

The following table represents the star- cycles speci- 
ally in a cMvA'yugft. and ImTiyv/ia. not those in a man- 
■omda/m. Although the manrankarcf.x arc- nothing but 
multiplications of whole caturyugas, still it is difficult 
to reckon with them on account of the sarndki which 
is attached both to the beginning and to the end of 
them. 


The usurer! of the planets. 

Their revolution & 
in a Catiir]. u™a. 

Their rcvolijtkniH 
\n a K&IJytjgs. 

Sim 

4,320-000 

432,000 

His apsis. ... 

'oil 

Of Ifis 

Moon ..... 

£ ■§ | Brahmagupta . 

57.753.3°° 

5 r 77 S, 3 in 


4 Si 8 io}«${ 

S §■ "( Aryabhata 

488,2! Q 


Her anorcal i st ic re vol utio] i 

57,265,194^ 

^ 726 , 519 ^ 1-1 

/Brahmagupta, 
g r§ | The translation of 

E | "| Alfaz&ri 
t Aryabhata 

2 33-3i 'A t 

23*23 iflft 

232,312,,% 


232,316 

23-231^ 

Mars . 

2,296,8 2BJfJ 

aa9,68a«« 

His apsis . 

°^Vrs 

o*tSv 

His node . 

° l-VnV. 

°i4Mu 

Mercury 

■ 7>93M9Bm 

1 , 793 ^ 99 ^ 

His apsis .... 

0 ^ 

OfffjU 

Bis node + . * . . 

OiWif 

orlffiT 

Jupiter 

364,22 

&A?mu 

His apsis .... 

°hT>h 

°iW* 

His code - 

Partir 

0 rr-W rr 


VOL. 11 . B 


Cyolcs of 
tne planets 
in i'l ta i ur- 
tivsjfi and 


rag* 2io. 


A LEER UNI'S INDIA. 


m i . 

n:>f y, kalpa 
fiM W . tur - 
yupt-i ■**- 
ciwriiugf (m 

FliIIkl. 


Trati^fnnxia. 
tiusi <}f ciie 
Vrijvrt Arya. 
blifti-A 

among the 
AratiR, 


IS 


“il'LL! names of Hit planets. 

Thair revolutions 

In :i eataryugit. 

Their vuYMuiiioiLB 
an ti Kaliyugii, 

Venus .... 

; ,02 2. 389*5* 


Her apsis 


Oxffihr 

Her node 


QnHBTi 

Saturn . 


i-MsSWtt 

His ap^is 


°! uVrin 

His node 

°/^v 


„ [The translation of 
§ | Alfaz&rl 


14, 656 !if 

% The correction of 
■* l Alsarakbsi , 

146,569^$ 


The fixed stars . 

ISO 

i 2 


After we have stated how many of the star-cycles of 
a ktdjXi fall in a cahwyuga and in a Irdiyurja, according 
to Brahmagupta, we shall now derive from the number 
of star-cycles of a mtiirynga according to Pniisa the 
number of star-cycles of a kalpa, first reckoning a 
kalpa= IOOO mtwryv.gas, and, secondly, reckoning it as 
ICO 8 caftt.n/ufjas* The$e numbers are contained in the 
following table : — 


The Yitga* atwirdfing to Pallet. 


TIi* names of the 
plains ts. 

Number of 
their revolu- 
tions En a 
Cntuiynga, 

>'iihjW of their 
revoliitioua Ln a 

K a.1 pa of 
mo 0 Cafnrj'uipifl, 

Number of their 
revolutions Iil a 
Ealpa of 

100P Cstnijuspa, 

Sun , . 

4,^0,000 

4.320,000,000 

4,354,^60,000 

Mo dh . . . 

57 . 753 . 33 ^ 

577 .i 3 - 33 <J,ooo 

58,215,362,688 

Her apsis . 

488,219 

488,219,000 

492,124,752 

Her node . 

232,226 

232,226,000 

234.083,808 

Mafe - . . 

2,296,824 

2,296,824,000 

2 .;s'iM 9 S,S 92 

Mercury . 

17,937,000 

177937^000,000 

183080,496,000 

Jupiter - - 

364.220 

364,220,000 

367,133,760 

1 Venus 

7,022,388 

7,022,388,000 

7,078,567,104 

Saturn . . 

146; 564 

146,564,000 

1 

f 47 ? 7 j 6 , 5 [2 


We meet in tins context with a curious circumstance. 
Evidently Alfaaari and Ya'kftb sometimes heard from 
their Hindu master expressions to this effect, that his. 
calculation, of the star-cycles was that of the great Bid- 
dkdnta, whilst Aryabhata reckoned with ont4hmmndtk 


CHAPTER L. 19 

part of it. They apparently did no! understand him 
properly, and imagined that dryabhaia (Arab. drjabhad) 
meant a thousandth part. The Hindus pronounce the 
d of this word something between a d and an r* So 
the consonant became changed to an r f and people wrote 
drjabhar* Afterwards it was still more mutilated, the 
first r being changed to a % and so people wrote ttzja- 
bhar. If the word in this garb wanders bach to the 
Hindus, they will not recognise it. 

Fnrt her, AM-adiasan of A! ah was mentions the revo- 
lutions of the planets in the years of <d-a’rjabhm\ i.e. in 
eaittrytifjas. I shall represent them in the table such 
as ] have found them, for 1 guess that they are directly 
derived from the dictation of that Hindu, Possibly* 
therefore, they give us the theory of Aryabhata. Some 
of these numbers agree with the star-cycles in a catur- 
yuya t which we have mentioned on the authority of 
Brahmagupta ; others differ from them, and agree with 
the theory of Fulisa > and a third class of numbers differs 
from those of both Brahmagupta and Palisa* as the 
examination of the whole table will show. 


The names of the 
pianeta. 

Thsir ¥ ugae us part& 
of ft CuturjUg* 
fl*iiQrdiri|r to 

A 1 ^'r-a] h stsn] A Pal iwAz, 

San * , . , . 
Moon * „ , . 
Her apsis . „ 

Her node . . 

Mars , , . , 

Mercury . . 

-Jupiter . . . 

Yanas h , . . 

Saturn . . . 1 

4.320,000 

5 ?> 753 . 3 j 6 

48K2I9 

2^2,226 

2,296,828 

l iWiMO 

364,224 

7,Q22*3SS 

146*564 


Stitr-Cvclcs 
aCMtding- to 
Abii -alhaf an 
oi AL'aliwiLz. 


Pag* 212.. 


( 20 ) 


On the tur.p 
month, 


CHAPTER LI. 

AJN IO&PLATIATIOH OF TilE TEAMS <f ADHIMABA, ” ir UNA- 
EATRA,” A.KD THE- ^tAHARtrANAS,” AS REPRESENTING 
DIFFERENT BUMS OF DAYS. 

The months of the I Ennius are lunar, their years solar ; 
therefore their new year a day must in each solar year 
fall by so much earlier as the lunar year is shorter than 
the solar (roughly speaking, by eleven days). If this 
precession makes up one complete month, they act in 
the same way as the Jews, who make the year a leap 
year of thirteen months by reckoning the month Adar 
twice, and in a similar way to the heathen Arabs, who 
in a so-called amms procmstinatwnis postponed the 
new year’s day, thereby extending the preceding year 
to the duration of thirteen months. 

The Hindus call the year in which a. month is 
repeated in the common language malum dm. Mala 
means the dirt that clings to the band. As such dirt 
is thrown away, thus the leap month is thrown away 
out of the calculation, and the number of the months 
of a year remains twelve. However, in the literature 
the leap month is called adjdmdm-. 

That month is repeated within which (it. being con- 
sidered as a solar month) two lunar months finish. If 
the end of the lunar month coincides with the beginning 
of the solar month, if, in fact, the former ends before 
any part of the latter has elapsed, this month is re- 
peated, because the end of the lunar month, although 


CHAPTER LL 


21 


it has not jet run into the new solar month, still does 
no longer form part of the preceding month. 

If a month is repeated, the first time it has its 
ordinary name, whilst the second time they add before 
the name the word dtt/yd to distinguish between them. 
If, eg- the month AsM-dha is repeated, the first, is called 
Ashudha, the second l^tmUh'tdha. The first month is 
that which is disregarded in the calculation. The ii In- 
dus consider it ns unlucky, and do not celebrate any of 
the festivals in it which they celebrate in the other 
months. The most, unlucky time in this month is that 
day on which the lunation reaches its end. 

The author of the Vishnu -Bharma says : ** C an dr a 
(m/tva) is smaller than m mna, £& the lunar year is 
smaller than the civil year, by six days* is. 'ilnardira. 
(fna means deormse t deficiency. Scmra is greater than 
mndra by eleven days, which gives in two years and 
seven months the supernumerary atih/imftm month. 
This whole month is unlucky, and nothing must be 
done in it. M 

This is a rough description of the matter. We shall 
now describe it accurately. 

The lunar year lias 360 lunar days, the solar year has 
3/l T Vcr lunar days. This difference sums up to the 
thirty days of an adhitiitim- in the course of 976 t -1 . ; jV 
lunar days, i.e.m 32 months, or in 2 years, 8 months* 1 6 
days, plii& the fraction : lunar day, which is 

nearly = 5 minutes, 1 5 seconds* 

As the religious reason of this theory of intercala- 
tion the Hindus mention a passage of the Veda t which 
they have read to us, to the following tenor: iC If the 
day of conjunction, is. the first lunar day of the month, 
passes without the sun’s marching from one- zodiacal sign 
to the other, and if this takes place on the following 
day* the preceding month falls out of the calculation.” 

The meaning of this passage is not correct* and the 
fault must have risen with the man who recited and 




Quotation 
frum Hits 


Quotation 
from the 
Kfcin. 


OrLtlfltauis 

thereon* 


22 


A LB B RUN PS INDIA - 


translated the parage to me. For a month lias thirty 
lunar days, and a twelfth part of the solar year has 
3 ° iri 5 hmar days. This fraction* reckoned in day- 
minutes, is. equal to 55 s 19^ 22 ili 30" 1 '. If we now, for 
example, suppose a conjunction or new moon to take 
place at o'' of a zodiacal sign, we add this fraction to 
the time of the conjunction, and thereby we find the 
times of the sun's entering the signs successively. As 
now the difference between a lunar and a solar month 
is only a fraction of a day, the sun's entering a new 
sign may naturally take place on any of the days of the 
month. It may even happen that the sun enters two 
consecutive signs on the same month-day {<■.</. on the 
second or third of two consecutive months). This is 
the case if in one month the sun enters a sign before 
4 2 40 11 37 l " 30 u ' have elapsed of it ; for the next follow- 
ing entering a sign falls later by 55 1 19 :C 23”' 30"', and 
both these fractions (;Le< less than 4 J 40 13 37 111 30 w pit** 
the last-mentioned fraction) added together arc not 
sufficient to make up one complete day- Therefore 
the quotation from the Veda is not correct. 
pmpoEed I suppose, however, that it may have the following 
correct meaning -If a month elapses in which the sun 
Ifl3Ktrej does not march from one sign to another, this month is 
disregarded in the calculation. For if the sun enters 
a sign on the 29th of a month, when at least 4 J 40'' 3/“ 
3Q 1v have elapsed of it, this entering takes place before 
the beginning of the succeeding month, and therefore 
the latter month is without an entering of the aun into 
a new sigu 1 because the next following entering falls on 
the first of the next but one or third month. If yon 
compute the consecutive enterings, beginning with a 
conjunction taking place in o° of a certain sign, you 
Pu t re 4+ find that in the thirty-third month the aun enters a new 
sign at 3 O 1 20 li of the twenty-ninth day 1 and that he 
enters the next following sign at 2 $' 39 11 22 i:: 30 iv ' of Hie 
first day of the thirty- fifth month. 


CHAPTER LL 


2 3 


Hence a Iso becomes evident why this month, which 
is disregarded in the calculation, is considered as un- 
lucky. The reason is that the month misses just that 
moment which is particularly adapted to earn in it a 
heavenly reward* viz* the moment of the sun's entering 
a now sign. 

A.s regards adhimdm^ the word means the first month, 
for AD means beijimvmg (i.e. (hii). In the books of 
Yakftb T bn Tarik and of Alfazikl this name is written 
■padomma, Pada (in the orlg. P-I)h) means end. and 
it is possible that the Hindus call the leap month by 
both names : but the reader must be aware that these 
two authors frequently misspell or disfigure the Indian 
words, and that there is no reliance on their tradition. 
I only mention this because Pulisa explains the latter 
of the two months, which are called by the same name, 
as the supernumerary one. 

The month, as the time from one conjunction to the 
following, is one revolution of the moon, which revolves 
through the ecliptic, but in a course distant from that 
of the sun. This is the difference between the motions 
of the two heavenly luminaries, whilst the direction 
in which they move is the same. If we subtract the 
revolutions of the sun, i.e, the solar cycles of a kalpa, 
from its lunar cycles, the remainder shows how many 
more lunar months a kalpa has than solar months* All 
months or days which wo reckon as parts of whole 
kalpas we call here vmiversal, and all months or days 
which we reckon as parts of a part of a hflpa, e-jj. 
of a ccdv.rymja, wo call partial, for the purpose of sim- 
pl 1 fy in g th e ten n in ology , 

The year has twelve solar months, and likewise 
twelve lunar months. The lunar year is complete with 
twelve months, whilst the solar year, ill consequence of 
the difference of the two year kinds, has, with the 
addition of the mildmdm, thirteen months. Now evi- 
dently the difference between the- universal Eolar and 


EKpknftiitrii 
of the terms 
tmifl.wrji'jJ or 

months and 


U ] 1 3 eml 
adhUv'-w. 


24 


A LB BRUNTS INDIA . 


Koto in nay 
ac^ar, 
mid dvi] 
tin ya ar e to- 
q 1.1 5 rud for 
the foruuL- 
treat of rui 
adk wraflsa 
month. 


TLlq comYiqi- 
Eation of 

atiMnitira. 
accord mg' 
to Fulisfi 
Fa#a. ni 


lunar months Is represented by these supernumerary 
months, by which a single year is extended to thirteen 
months. These, therefore, are the ummrml atfMmMa 
months. 

. The universal solar months of a hcdpm are 5 1,840, 
000,030 ; the universal lunar months of a kalpa are 

53.433.300.000. The difference between them or the 
adkimrim months is 1,593,300,000. 

Multiplying each of these numbers by 30, we get 
days, viz. solar days of a kalp& t 1.555,200,000,000 j 
1 1 j n ar day s, T , 602 , 999,000,000 ; the day s of the ad hi m u sa 
months, 47.799,000,000. 

Tn order to reduce these numbers to smaller ones 
we divide them by a common divisor, viz. 9,000,000. 
Thus we get as the sum of the days of the solar months 
172,800 ; as the sum of the days of the lunar months, 
178,1 11 ; and as the sum of the days of the adkimdm 
months, 5 3 1 1 . 

If we further divide the universal . solar t civil , and 
lunar days of a kalpa, each kind of them separately, by 
the universal adhimdsa months, the quotient represents 
the number of days within which a whole adkimdm 
month sums up, viz. in 976 solar days, in ioo6/// t 
lunar days, and in 990 t J J. \ v, civil days. 

This whole compulation rests on the measures which 
Brahmagupta adopts regarding a kalpa and the star- 
cycles in a kalpa. 

According to the theory of Pulisa regarding the 
caf/tiryuga, a caiur-tfuga has 51,840,000 solar months, 
5343.3,336 lunar months, 1,593,336 ftiM^wL^mionths. 
Accordingly a caluryur/a has 1.555,200,000 solar days, 

1.603.000. 080 lunar days, 47,800,080 days of adhimtim 
months* 

If we reduce the numbers of the months by the 
common divisor of 24. we get 2 ,i6q. 000 solar months, 
2.226,389 lunar months, 66,389 adhmi&sa months* If 
we divide the numbers of the day by the common 


CHAPTER LI. 


35 


divisor of 720, we get 2,160,000 solar days, 2,226,389 
lunar days, 66,389 days of the adMra&m months. If 
we, lastly, divide the universal solar, lunar, and civil 
days of a caturyugn, each kind separately, by the uni- 
versal adhimdm months of a caturymja, the quotient 
represents the numbers of days within which a whole 
adhimdm month sums up, viz. in gj6^;f. 7l solar days, 
in lunar days, and in 990 ;f]l ;*£■[;• civil days. 

These are the elements of the computation of the 
adhimdsa, which we liave worked out for the benefit of 
the following investigations, 

Regarding the cause which necessitates the unardira, 
lit. the days of the decrease, we have to consider the fol- 
lowing. 

If we have one year or a certain number of years, 
and reckon for each of them twelve months, we get the 
corresponding number of solar months, and by multi- 
plying the latter by 30, the corresponding number 
of solar days. It is evident that the number of the 
lunar months or days of the same period is the same, 
plus an increase which forms one or several adMmdsa 
months. If we reduce this increase to adhivt&sa. months 
due to the period of time in question, according to the 
relation between the universal solar months and the 
universal m IMitidsa months, and add this to the months 
or days of the years in question, the sum represents the 
partial lunar days, f.e, those which correspond to the 
given number of years. 

This, however, is not what is wanted. What we want 
is the number of civil days of the given number of 
years which are less than the lunar days ; for one tivil 
day is greater than one lunar day. Therefore, in order 
to find that which is sought, we must subtract some- 
thing from the number of lunaT days, and this element 
which must be subtracted is called tinardtim. 

The Unardtra of the partial lunar days stands in the 
same relation to the univ&rsal lunar days as the universal 


Kx| il uTifctinn 
rtf the tflvm 
vlykmJfv'ft. 


26 


A LBERUNFS INDIA . 


Cu imputa- 
tion of thi 
u iftxTOAm- 
(LCCortllug 
to f h ulisu. 


C.'r i I icifima 
on Y.:’ Ufib 
I bti Tirik, 


Fu&e gi g. 


civil days are less than the universal lunar days. The 
universal lunar days of a Jcalpa are 1,602,999,000,000* 
This number is larger than the number of universal 
civil days bv 25,082,550,000, which represents the uni- 
versal uTatvdtm. 

Both these numbers may be diminished by the com- 
mon divisor of 450,000. Thus we get 3,562.220 uni- 
versal lunar days, and 55,739 universal &nardtm days. 

According to Pulisa, a caiuTpiga has 1,603,000,080 
lunar days, and 25,082,280 nnmtUm days. The com- 
mon divisor by which both numbers may be reduced 
is 360. Thus we get 4,452,778 lunar days and 69,673 
ilnar&tm days. 

These are the rules for the computation of the ilna- 
rdtra } which we shall hereafter want for the compu- 
tation of the fthft.rtju ija. The word means mm of days ; 
for ah means day, and argana, sum, 

Yakub Ibn Tarik has made a mistake in the compu- 
tation of the solar days; for he maintains that you get 
them by subtracting the solar cycles of a half a from 
the civil days of a Jcalpa, i.e. the universal civil days. 
But this is not the case. We get the solar days by 
multiplying the solar cycles of a kalpa by 12, in order 
to reduce them to months, and the product by 30, in 
order to reduce them to days, or by multiplying the 
number of cycles by 360, 

In the computation of the lunar days he has first 
taken the right course, multiplying the lunar months 
of a kalpa by 30, but afterwards ho again falls into a 
mistake in the computation of the days of the Unardim. 
For he maintains that you get them by subtracting the 
sol ar day s f r om th e Inn ar day whi l st the co rrect t bin g 
is to subtract the emit days from the lunar days. 


C v ) 


CHAPTER III. 

ON THE CALCULATION OP “ AHARGANA” [N GENERAL, 
THAT 13, THE RESOLUTION OF TEARS AND MONTHS 
INTO PAYS, AND, VICE VERSA, THE COMPOSITION OF 
YEARS AND MONTHS OUT OF DATS. 

The general method of resolution is as follows: — The 
complete years are multiplied by 12 ; to the product are 
added the months which have elapsed of the current 
year, [and this sum is multiplied by 30;] to this product 
are added the days which have elapsed of the current- 
month. The sum represents the mur&hargana, the 
sum of the partial solar days* 

You write down the number in two places- In the 
one place you multiply it by S3 11 ' i.a. the number 
which represents the wniverml adhhfidsa months. The 
product you divide by 172,800, i.e* tbe number which 
represents the universal solar months. The quotient you 
get, as far as it contains complete days, is added to the 
number in ike secmid place, and the sum represents the 
cttttdr&harrfamt, i.e. the sum of the partial lunar days. 

The latter number is again written down in two 
different places* In the one place you multiply it by 
5 5.739, Le. the number which represents the universal 
tlnardira days* and divide the product by 3,562,220, i.e. 
the number which represents the universal lunar days. 
The quotient you get, as far as it represents complete 
days, is subtracted from the number written in the 
second place, and the remainder is the $&mndliar$am, 
■'Lc. the sum of civil days which we wanted to find. 


GeiUfiftJ rule 
how t-0 Is ml 

the adWferf* 
haTffGttn . 


z£ 


ALBERUNPS INDIA . 


More do- 
tal led mi a 

fu m tdLLllG 

purpose. 


Til* lntltr 
method 
roMcd 'nit 

for : i - 

kfil it 553. 


However, the reader must know that this computa- 
tion applies to dates in which there are only complete 
adhrmdsa and Unardtm days, without any fraction. If, 
therefore, a given number of years commences with the 
beginning of a hilpa, or a caturyuffa, or a hal-iyaga^ this 
computation is correct. Hut if the given years begin 
with some other time, it may by chance happen that 
this computation is correct, but possibly, too, it may 
result in proving the existence of rnlMmdm time, and in 
that case the computation would not be correct- Also 
the reverse of these two eventualities may take place. 
However, if it is known with what particular moment 
in the hdjpft^ coMryu$a> or kaliyuga a given number 
of years commences, we use a special method of corn- 
pu tat ion, which we shall hereafter illustrate by some 
examples- 

We shall carry out this method for the begin- 
ning of the Indian year SakaMla 953, the same year 
which we use as the gauge-year in all these com- 
putations. 

First wb compute the time from the beginning of 
the life of Brahman, -according to the rules of Brahma- 
gupta. We have already mentioned that 606 8 hdym 
have elapsed before the present one* Multiplying this 
by the well-known number of the days of a kidpa 
{ 1 i577i 9* 6,450,000 civil days, -mde i. 368), we get 
9,574 797 , 0 x 8 ,( 500,000 as the sum of the days of 6068 
kalpas. 

Dividing this number by 7, we get 5 as a remainder, 
and reckoning five days backwards from the Saturday 
which is the last day of the preceding hdpa, we get 
Tuesday as the first day of the life of Brahman. 

We have already mentioned the sum of the days of 
a cattrrytiJja (1,577,916,450 days, v. i, p. 370), and have 
explained that a kritayuga is equal to four-tenths of it, 
i.e* 631,166.580 days* A manmntam has seventy-one 
times as much, Le. 112,032^67,950 days. The days of 


P;=lEG ;rt J. 


CHAPTER LIL 


39 


six mmimntams and their samdki, consisting 0 f seven 
kfitmjufja, are 676,610,573,760, If we divide this 
number by 7, we get a remainder of 2. Therefore the 
six manvantams end with a Monday, and the seventh 
begins with a Tuesday, 

Of the seventh mtmrcmtara there have already elapsed 
twenty- seven caturfprgm, i.e, 42,603,744,150 days. If 
we divide this number by 7. we get a remainder of 2 . 
Therefore the twenty-eighth cahmpiya begins with a 
Thursday. 

The days of the yvjjtix which have elapsed of the 
present mMiryvfja are 1,420,124,805. The division by 
7 g i ve s the rem ai n d er 1 . T1 ie ref ore th e Icalvtpwft t begin & 
with a Friday, 

Now* returning to our gauge -year, we remark that 
the years which have elapsed of the kalpa up to that 
year are 1,972,948,132, Multiplying them by 12, we 
get as the number of their months 23,675,377,584. In 
the date which we have adopted as gauge-year there 
is no month, but only complete years; therefore we 
have nothing to add to this number. 

By multiplying this number by 30 we get days, 
via. 710,261,327,520. As there are no days in the 
normal date, we have no days to arid to this number* 
If, therefore, we had multiplied the number of years 
by 360, we should have got the same result, via. the 
'part ml solar days. 

Multiply this number by 5311 and divide the pro- 
duct by 172,800. The quotient is the number of the 
adldm&sa days, viz. 21,829,849,018 | If, in multi- 
plying and dividing, we had used the months, w r e 
should have found the adMimlm months, and, multi- 
plied by 30, they would be equal to the here -mentioned 
number of adMmdm days. 

If we further add the adhimdm days to the partial 
solar days, we get the sum of 732,091,176.538. i>e. the 
partial lunar days. Multiplying them by 55,739, and 


3 ° 


ALBRRUarS INDIA. 


Thu Rictic 
i^T u elation, 
applied t ; i ii 
C&btryuga 
according- tc 
the tlictisry 
of FuLita, 


dividing the product by 3,562,220, we get the partial 
unardtra days, viz,, ] 1,455,224,575 

This Bum of days without the fraction Is subtracted 
from the partial lunar days, and the remainder, 
720,635,951,963, represents the number of the civil 
days of our gauge-date* 

Dividing it by 7, we get as remainder 4, which 
means that the last of these days is a Wednesday. 
Therefore the Indian year commences with a Thursday. 

If we further want to find the adhimdsa time, we 
divide the adkimusa days by 30, and the quotient is 
the number of the adhimfUm which have elapsed, viz. 
737,661,633, plus a remainder of 28 days, 51 minutes, 
30 seconds, for the current year. This is the time 
which has already elapsed of the adluumd&a month of 
the current year. To become a complete month, it 
only wants 1 day, 8 minutes, 30 seconds more. 

We have here used the solar and lunar days, the 
mlhim-dsa and ilndrdtra days, to find a certain past- 
portion of a hai'pa. We shall now do the same to find 
the past portion of a ca turyizgq*! and we may use the 
game elements for the computation of a minryvxja 
which we have used for that of a katpa, for both 
methods lead to the same result, as long as we adhere 
to one and the same theory ( e/j . that of Brahmagupta), 
and do not mix up different chronological systems, and 
as long as each punak&m and its bMgahk&ra, which we 
here mention together, correspond to each other in the 
two computations. 

The former term means a muliiplicator in all kinds 
of calculations. In our (Arabic) astronomical hand- 
books, as well as those of the Persians, the word occurs 
in the form gunc&r* The second term means each 
It occurs in the astronomical handbooks in 
the form bakcm\ 

It would be useless if we were to exemplify this com- 
putation on a fiatuvyvjja according to the theory of Brah- 


chapter LIL 31 

niagnpta, us according to him a cafMrj/Uf/a is simply one- 
thousandth of a kodjXL We should only have to shorten 
the above-mentioned numbers by three ciphers, and in 
every other respect get the same results. Therefore we 
shall now give this computation according to the theory 
of Pttlisa, which, though applying to the mturywja, is 
similar to the method of computation used for a kMpa. 

According to Pulisa, in the moment of the beginning 
of the gauge-year, there have elapsed of the years of the 
mtm 7/ uga 3 1 244 , 132, w h i oh are equ at to 1, 1 67 ,8 87 , 5 2 o 
solar days. If we multiply the number of months 
which corresponds to this number of days with the 
number of the adhimdsa months of a mturptga or a 
corresponding mul tipi icutnr, and divide the product by 
the number of the solar months of a mtnrpvga, or a 
corresponding divisor, we get as the number of tulin- 
a 1 dm mon fchs 1 , 196,525 ! i 

Further, the past 3,244.132 years of the eaiuryuga 
are 1,263,783,270 lunar days. Multiplying them by 
the number of the itnurdPra days of a mtirryuf/a, and 
dividing the product by the lunar days of a mlargiiga y we 
get as the number of ihiardircr- days 18,835,7 
Accordingly, the civil days which have elapsed since 
the beginning of the catwyuga are 1, 184,947,570, and 
this it was which we wanted to find. 

We shall here communicate a passage from the 
Ft* U& t-siddJt mUa, describing a similar method of com- 
putation, for the purpose of rendering the whole subject 
clearer to the mind of the reader, and fixing it there 
more thoroughly, ihillsa says: ff We first mark the 
kitljKta which have elapsed of the life of Brahman 
before tlie present fralpa-, ie. 60 68. We multiply this 
number by the number of the caturyagas of a kalpa, 
i.e . 1008. Thus we get the product 6,116,544. This 
number wo multiply by the number of the Jf'itf/as of a 
mtvryvga, i.t\ 4, and get the product 24,466,176. This 
number we multiply by the number of years of a yuga x 


Tago a 1 -B, 


A fiTmUar 
method ai 
compLitftt±oa 
taken from 
the Pwlisa- 
kiddlJi nla. 


32 


A LEER UNI'S INDIA . 


1.080,000, and get the product 26423*470,080,000, 
These are the years which have elapsed before the 
present kalpa. 

We further multiply the latter number by 12, so as 
to get- months, via, 317,081,640,960,000, We write 
down this number in two different, places. 

In the one place, we multiply it by the number of 
the adhimdsa months of a cat?? njvfjft y ij% 1,593,336, or 
a corresponding number which has been mentioned in 
the preceding, and we divide the product by the num- 
ber of the solar months of a miurytttjtp i+e. 5 1 ,840,000. 
The quotient is the number of o.dhAm&sa months, viz. 
9*?4$*7°9>7$QJ$4' 

This number we add to the number written in the 
second pi ace, ■ and get the su m of 326.827,330,710,7 84 . 
Multiplying this number by 30* we get. the product 
9,804,820,521,323,520* via. lunar days. 

This number is again written down in two different 
places. In the one place we multiply it by the ilnanUra 
of a cf.dur 7 jv J ga i i t e. the difference between civil and lunar 
days, and divide the product by the lunar days of a calm- 
yvfja . Thu s we get as q u otient I $ 3 ,4 1 6, 869, 2 40 , 3 20, 
i.e. dnardtra days. 

We subtract this number from that one written 
in the second place, and we get as remainder 
9.63 1,403,652.083,200, w. the days which have elapsed 
of the life of Brahman before the present h djvt. y 
or the days of 6068 Irdpsts, each kalpa having 
1,590,541,142.400 days. Dividing this sum of days 
by 7 * we get. no remainder. This period of time ends 
with a Saturday, and. the present kalpa commences 
with a Sunday. This shows that the beginning of the 
life of Brahman too was a Sunday. 

Of the current kalpa there have elapsed six vtanvm- 
Pa^esigu taros, each of 72 mhfryuf/m t and each caf-V.ryv.ga of 
4,320,000 years. Therefore six mtmvcmt&ras have 
1*866*240,000 years. This number we compute in the 


CHAPTER LIT 


33 


same way as we have done in the preceding example* 
Thereby we find as the number of days of six complete 
manmutams, 6S 1 , 66 o t 4 8 y r 6oo. D iv idi n g thi s n n m ber 
by 7, we get as remainder 6. Therefore the elapsed 
■niwvmntaras end with a Friday,, and the seventh man- 
■vajitam begins with a Saturday* 

Of the current Timnvaniara there have elapsed 27 
cainrff’Mgtts, which, according to the preceding method 
of computation, represent the number of 42,603,780,600 
days. The twenty-seventh caim'yum ends with a 
Monday, and the twenty -eighth begins with a Tues- 
day, 

Of the current caturyuga there have elapsed three 
l/wjm, or 3,240,000 years. These represent, according 
to the preceding method of computation, the number 
of {,183438,350 days. Therefore these three ipitpis 
end with a Thursday, and baliyuga commences with a 
Friday. 

Accordingly, the sum of days which have elapsed 
of the kaTpa is 725,447,708,550, and the sum of days 
which have elapsed between the beginning of the life 
of Brahman and the beginning of the present kaliyuya 
is 9,652429,099,7913750. 

To judge from the quotations from Aryabhata, as we 
have not seen a book of his, he seems to reckon in the 
following manner : — 

The sum of days of a catwri/nga is 1 ,577,91 7,500, 
The time between the beginning of the Iralpft and the 
beginning of the kaiiytpja is 725.447,570,625 days. 
The time between the beginning of the kalpu and our 
gauge-date is 725,449,079,845. The number of days 
which have elapsed of the life of Brahman before the 
present kalpa is 9.651401,817,120,000. 

This is the correct method for the resolution of years 
into days, and all other measures of time are to be 
treated in accordance with this. 

We have already pointed out (on p, 26} a mistake 

vol, u. c 


TJ10 method 

■of flftjrrj’jJP.Fl'T 

employed 
by A ryj.i- 
bbati. 


ALBRRUNVS INDIA. 


Thy tthar- 

V.'.' f .1- 

given by 
TtVktib J1 
TAJ-lk. 


A -wonl 
method 
givuii by 
Vri'kuSj, 


34 

of Ya'kiiVj I bn Tftrik in the calculation of the universal 
solar anti nn&vMra days. As ho translated from the 
Indian language a calculation the reasons of which lie 
did not understand* it won Id have been his duty to 
examine it, arid to check the various numbers of it one 
by the other. He mentions in his book also the method 
of ahartfana^ Lc. the resolution of years, but It is descrip- 
tion is not correct; for he says : — 

fC Multiply the months of the. given number of years 
by the number of the a dhimdsa months which have 
elapsed up to the time in question, according to the 
well-known rules of adhimdsa* Divide the product 
by the solar months. The quotient is the number of 
complete adhrmdm months plus its fractions which 
have elapsed up to the date in question/' 

The mistake is here so evident that even a copyist 
would notice it; how much more a mathematician who 
makes a computation according to this method ; for 
he multiplies by the partial i'uffdmdm instead of the 
wiimrsal. 

Besides, Yakub mentions in his book another and 
perfectly correct method of resolution, which is this : 
“When you have found the number of months of 
the years, multiply them by the number of the lunar 
months, and divide the product, by the solar months. 
The quotient is the number of adlmnd-sa months to- 
gether with the number of the months of the years in 
question. 

This number you multiply by 30, and you add to 
the product the days which have elapsed of the current- 
month. The sum represents the lunar days, 

“ If, instead of this, the first number of months were 
multiplied by 30, and the past portion of the month 
were added to the product, the sum would represent 
the partial solar days; and if this number were further 
computed according to the preceding method, we should 
get the adkwrdsa days together with the solar days/' 


CHAPTER Lit. 


35 


The rationale of this calculation is the following : — If 
we multiply, as we have done* by the number of the 
universal adMm&m months, and divide the product by 
the universal solar months, the quotient represents the 
portion of arf Id-mam time by which we have multiplied* 
As, now, the lunar months are the sum of solar and 
adJmndm months, we multiply by them (the lunar 
months) and the division remains the same. The quo- 
tient is the sum of that number which is multiplied 
and that one which is sougl.it for, i.e. the lunar days* 

We have- already mentioned in the preceding part 
that by multiplying the lunar days by the universal 
■AnanHrii, days, and by dividing the product by the 
universal lunar days, we get the portion of to* ardt-m 
days which belongs to the number of lunar days in 
question. However, the civil days in a kalpa are less 
than the lunar days by the amount of I lie Ttnartitra 
days* Now the lunar days we have stand in the same 
relation to the lunar days ?jw nts their duo portion of 
urn-i'dlm days as the whole number of lunar days (of 
a leaf pa) to the whole number of lunar days (of a htlpd) 
■minus the complete number of unar&lra days (of a 
hdpa) ; and the latter number are the universal trirlf 
clays. If we, therefore, multiply the number of lunar 
days we have by the universal civil days, and divide 
the product by the universal lunar days, we get as 
quotient the number of civil days of the date in ques- 
tion, and that it was which we wanted to find. In- 
stead of multiplying by the whole sum of civil days 
(of a kalpa), we multiply by 5,506.481, and instead of 
dividing by the- whole number of lunar days (of a 
hdpit), we divide by 3,563,220. 

The Hindus have still another method of calculation. 
It. is the following ; — They multiply the elapsed years 
of the kalpa by 12, and add to the product the com- 
plete months which have elapsed of the current, year. 
The sum they^ write down above the number 69,120, 


ExplkiitLrm 
nf the Iriftt. 
men tioned 
rneLlicrfl, 


Pnge 220 , 


.A no the 

method 

tthftrff " w,;c 1.1 f 
the Hindus. 




A LB BRUNTS INDIA « 




and the number they get ls subtracted from the num- 
ber written down in the middle place- The double of 
the remainder they divide by 65. Then the quotient 
represents the partial ndhimdsa months. This number 
they add to that one which is written down in the 
uppermost place. They multiply the sum by 30, and 
add to [he product the days which have elapsed of the 
current month. The sum represents the partial solar 
days, This number is written down in two different 
places, one under the other. They multiply the lower 
number by 1 i, and write the product under it. Then 
they divide it by 40 3 ,963 1 and add the quotient to the 
middle number. They divide the sum by 703, and 
the quotient represents the partial tlnardtm days. This 
number they subtract from the number written In the 
uppermost place, and the remainder is the number of 
civil days which, we want to find, 11 


Kipii.jLrtiou The rationale of this computation is the following 
LLLCt (j LujL If we divide the universal solar months by the uni- 
versal ad him Am months* we get as the measure of one 
fttUdmdsa- month 32 ^1=^ solar months. The double 
of this is 65 jV-^y- solar months. If we divide by this 
number the double of the mouths of the given years, the 
q noti ent is tl 1 e mi m be r of Use pa r 1 ial a did m dsas, H 0 w - 
ever, if we divide by wholes plus a fraction, and want 
to subtract from the number which is divided a certain 
portion, the remainder being divided by the wholes 
only, and the two subtracted portions being equal por- 
tions of the wholes to which they belong, the whole 
divisor stands in the same relation to its fraction as 
the divided number to the subtracted portion, 

TiieM-ber If we make this computation for our gauge-year, we 


method 
spiled tn 
ilia gautfe- 
yofts‘. 


get the fraction of 
bers by 15* we get 


and dividing both n lim- 



it would also be possible here to reckon by single 
adkimdsas instead of double ones, and iu that case it 


CHAPTER LIL 


37 


would not, he necessary to double the remainder. But 
the inventor of this method seems to have preferred 
the reduplication ici order to get smaller numbers; for 
if we reckon with single adMwAsas, we get the fraction 
of -fid-fwi which may be reduced by 96 as a common 
divisor. Thereby we get Sg as the imiltiplicator, and 
5400 as the divisor. In this the inventor of the 
method has shown his sagacity „ for the reason for his 
computation is the intention of getting partial lunar 
days and smaller multiplieators. 

His method (i.e. Brahmagupta's) for the computation 
of the Cmar&tra days is the following : — 

If we divide the universal lunar days by the uni- 
versal ■dimrtUm days, we get, as quotient 63 and a 
fraction, which may be reduced by the common divisor 
4 5 0 000. T 3 1 us w e get 6 3 T 'P § y 1 1 1 n ar day & as i 1 1 e pe ri od 
of time within which one 4 nardira day sums up. If 
we change this fraction into eleventh parts, we get 
and a remainder of |4j?w* which, if expressed in 
minutes, is equal to o' 5 c/ 54^. 

Since this fraction is very near to one whole, people 
have neglected it, and use, in a rough way, { ’{ instead. 
Therefore, according to the Hindus, one unordlnt day 
s u ms up in 63} f 0 r 7 t V In n ar d ays. 

[f wm now multiply the number of ihuirdtm days, 
which corresponds to the number of lunar days by 
the product, is less than that which we get: by 
multiplying by 63-} ". If we, therefore, want to divide 
the lunar days by VV\ on the supposition that the 
quotient is equal to the first number, a certain portion 
must be added to the lunar days, and this portion lie 
(the author of Pt tlisa- Siddiuhd a) had not computed accu- 
rately, but only approximatively. For if vve multiply 
the universal unanUra- days by 703, we get the product, 
17,633:032,650,000, which is more than eleven times the 
universal lunar days. And if we multiply the universal 
lunar days by 1 f , we get the product 17,632,989,000,000. 


Method for 

the utiiiipaL- 

t^tiuct tf the 

■Sr-nwiii lira 
days 

lilgJT til 

br-^hnift- 

gupta. 

Cage £2 e , 


ALBERUNFS INDIA . 


Jjl itLLlL&rUlW (if 
this MIULtol. 


McthOli f'nv 

n ii i.i.j 1 1 ur tJi-o 
( for 
ttx; yerirt of 
A Xyrif 

ill’ 


3 ^ 

The difference between the two numbers is 43,650,000, 

I f we divide by this number the product of eleven times 
the universal lunar days, we get as quotient 403,963, 

This is the number used by the inventor of the 
method. It' there were not a small remainder beyond 
the last-mentioned quotient (403,963 a fraction ), his 
method would be perfectly correct. However, there 
remains a fraction of 4 W 5 or . --t ? and this is the amount 
which is neglected. If he uses this divisor without the 
fraction, and divides by it the product of eleven times 
the partial lunar days, the quotient would he by so much 
larger as the divklendum has in or eased, The other 
details of the calculation do not require comment. 

Because the majority of the Hindus, in reckoning 
their years, require the adkimdsa y they give the pre- 
ference to this method, and are particularly painstaking 
in describing the methods for the computation of the 
adfdm&m f disregarding the methods for the compu- 
tation of the ilna riitra days and the mm of the days 
(ftharyandy One of their methods 0 f finding the ad- 
himdsa for the years of a I,:alpa or caiaryvjja or kalvyaya 
is this : — 

They write down the years in three different places. 
They multiply the upper number by io, the middle by 
240 l and the lower by 7739 - Then they divide the 
middle and lower numbers by 9600, and the quotients 
are days for the middle number and amraa for the 
lower number. 

The sum of these two quotients is added to the 
number in the upper place. The sum represents the 
number of the complete adhitneim days which have 
elapsed, and the sum of that which remains in the 
other two places is the fraction of the current adldra&m. 
Dividing the days by 30, they get months. 

Yakub I bn Tarik states this method quite correctly. 
We shall, as an example, carry out this computation for 
gu r gaxi ge-ye ar. Th e y ears of th e kalpa wh i ch have el aps ed 


CHAPTER LI I. 


39 


till the moment of the gauge-date are 1,972.948,132, 
We write down this number in three different places. 
The upper number we multiply by ten, by which it 
gets a cipher more at the right side. The middle 
number we multiply by 2481 and get the product 
4,894.8 84, 3 1 5 ,492 , Th e low er 11 u m be r w e m u Itiply by 
7739. and get the product 15,268,643,593,548, The 
latter two numbers we divide by 9600 j thereby we get 
for the middle number as quotient 509,883,782 and a 
remainder of 8292, and for the lower number a quo- 
tient of 1,590483,915 and a remainder of 954S. The 
sum of these two remainders is 17,840. This fraction 
{i.e. 1 ^ reckoned as one whole. Thereby the 
sum of the numbers in all three places is raised to 
2 1 .829,849,0 r8, i t e, adh irtima day s, plus \ !j ;j d ay of th e 
current adMmdsa day (%/•■. which is now in course of 
summing up). 

Reducing these days to months, we get 727,661,633 
months and a remainder of twenty-eight days, which 
is called ShT/-I). This is the interval between the 
beginning of the month Caitra, which is not omitted 
in the series of months, and the moment of the vernal 
equinox. 

Further, adding the quotient which wo have got for 
the middle number to the j^cars of the kedpa, we get 
the sum of 2,482,83 1 .914. Dividing this number by 7, 
we get the remainder 3. Therefore the sun has, in the 
year in question, entered Aries on a Tuesday. 

The two numbers which are used as multiplicatora 
for the numbers in the middle and lower places aie to 
be explained in the following manner : — 

Dividing the civil days of a kalpa by the solar cycles 
of a ka/pa, we get as quotient the number of days which 
compose a year, ie. 365 [: J 1 t\\ o'lb Hrfucing this 

fraction by the common divisor of 450,000, we get 
365 5 JM- The fraction may be further reduced by 
being divided by 3. but people leave it a<* it is, in order 


The Litter 
rnetTjud ati- 
plk d U f tin; 


iai. 


Ezpl&uatm^ 
ttiihte to 111* 
Ltt.t.or 
m-etliod. 


40 


A LB BR UNTS INDIA. 


SimjiMoiA- 
tdoii <:4 the 
a nine 

method. 


that this fraction and the other fractions which occur 
in the further course of this computation should have 
the same denominator* 

Dividing the universal ^nardlra days by the solar 
years of a kalpa, the quotient is tho number of unarAlm 
days which belong to a solar year, viz, 5 "Ji 'S 
days. Reducing this fraction by the common rli visor 
of 450,000, we get 5y|-g<-{ days. The fraction may fur- 
ther bo reduced by being divided by 3, 

The measures of solar and lunar years are about 360 
days, as are also the m/ail years of sun and moon, the 
one being a little larger, the other a little shorter. The 
one of these measures, the lunar year, Is used in this 
computation, whilst the other measure, the solar yea 13 
is sought for. The sum of the two quotients (of the 
middle and lower number) is the difference between the 
two kinds of years. The upper number is multiplied by 
the sum of the complete days, and the middle and lower 
numbers are multiplied by each of the two fractions. 

If we want to abbreviate the computation, and do 
not, like the Hindus* wish to find the mean motions of 
sun and moon* we add the two multi plica tors of the 
middle and lower numbers together. This gives the 
sum of [0,220. 

To this sum we add, for the upper place, the product 
of the divisor x ro = 96,000, and we get 
Reducing this fraction by the half, we get ^V- 

In this chapter (p. 27) wo have already explained 
that by multiplying the days by 53 1 i f and dividing 
the product by 172,800, we get the number of the 
adkimdsas. If we now multiply the number of years 
instead of the day a, the product is of the product 
which we should get when multiplying by the number 
of d ays . 1 f we t th ere f ore, w ant to 1 1 a v e tl le sa me q not n n t 
which we get by tho first division, we must divide by 
y-Jjj of the divisor by which we divided in the first case, 
via. 480 (for 360 x 480 = 172,800). 


rsgtj: 


chapter ul 


4 


Similar to this method is that one prescribed by 
Pulisa : Write down the number of the partial months 
in two different places. In the one place multiply 
it by mi, and divide the product by 67,500, Sub- 
tract the quotient From the number in the other place, 
and divide the remainder by 32, The quotient is the 
number of the adkim&sa months, and the fraction in 
the quotient, if there is one, represents that part of an 
adkimdsa month which is in course of formation. Mul- 
tiplying this amount by 30, and dividing the product 
by 32, the quotient represents the days and day-frac- 
tions of the current ad/dmdsa mouth/' 

The rationale of this method is the following : — 

If you divide the solar months of a c&Mryuga by the 
tttlhdmd&a months of a nedwryv.-ga^ in accordance with the 
theory of Puliaa, you get as quotient If you 

divide the months by this number, you get the com- 
plete ftdkwifisa months of the past portion of the caiur- 
yvga- or lalpa. Pnlisa, however, wanted to divide by 
wholes alone, without any fractions. Therefore he had 
to subtract something from the dividendum, as lias 
already been explained in a similar case (p, 36), We 
have found, in applying the computation to our gauge- 
year, as the fraction of the divisor, which may 

be reduced by being divided by 32. Thereby we get 

_i 1 1 a 

<F T,t 0 1 y‘ 

Fuhsa lias, in this calculation, reckoned by the solar 
days into which a date is resolved, instead of by months. 
For he says: u You write this number of days in two 
different, places. 1 n the one place you multiply it by 
271 and divide the product by 4,050,000, The quo- 
tient you subtract from the number in the other 
place and divide the remainder by 976, The quo- 
tient is the number of adhimdsa months, days, and 
day- fractions/ 5 

Further he says: “The reason of this is, that by 
dividing the days of a mhiff/uya by the iuUi/midsa 


A EMQQOJld 
msthod for 
finding ill a 
adMm m, 
aircordiiia to 
Cidiaa. 


Of UlO 
method 
Of Poll R?l, 


Further 
011 ntotli-jji 
from Pulisa. 


42 


ALBERUNFS INDIA , 


I \r j hi l:i 
Otk the pikft- 

ejtgpe from 
PnM-ca, 


^ferljorl for 
thr! compn. 
tntion of the 
■ 8 -cLi.'i 3 fj« 
flaji'jH. 


months, you get as quotient 976 days and a remainder 
of 1 04,064. The common divisor for this number and 
for the divisor is 384* Reducing the fraction thereby, 
we get uo days. 

Here, however, I suspect either the copyist or the 
translator, for I 'n lisa was too good a scholar to commit 
similar blunders. The matter is this 

Those days which are divided by the adMmdsa 
months are of necessity solar days. The quotient con- 
tains wholes and fractions, as has been stated. Both 
denominator and numerator have as common divisor the 
number 24. Reducing the fraction thereby, we get 

If we apply this rule to the months, and reduce 
the number of adhiiMm months to fractions, we get 
47 , 800,000 as denominator. A divisor common to both 
this denominator and its numerator is 16. Reducing 
the fraction thereby, we get 

If we now multiply the number which Puliea adopts 
as divisor by the just- mentioned common divisor, 

384. we ge t the p rod net 1,555.2 00 poo . viz . s ola r d a vs 
in a cahiryuga. But it is quite impossible that this 
number should, in this part of the calculation, be 
used as a divisor. If we want to base this method on 
the rules of Brahmagupta, dividing the universal solar 
months by the adkimdm- months, the result will be, 
according to the method employed by him, double the 
amount of the adhimtm. 

Further, a similar method may be used for the com- 
putation of the uvartiin* days. 

Write down the partial lunar days in two different 
places, Tn the one place, multiply the number by 
50.663, and divide the product by 3,562,220. Sub- 
tract the quotient from the number in the other 
place, and divide the remainder by 63 without any 
fraction . 

In the further very lengthy speculations of the 


Pag* - 3 - 34 . 


CHAPTER LIT . 


4j 


Hindus there is no use at all, especially as they require 
the avama, Le. the remainder of the partial 4 <nardtra t 
for the remainders which we get by the two divisions 
have two different denominators. 

lie who is perfectly acquainted with the preceding ituiu how 
rules of resolution will also be able to carry out the eh^in^ 
opposite function, the composition , if a certain amount i eei-tain 
of psust days of a h.dpa or mturyuga be given. To v ; ! I- =V: h"J" _ 
make sure, however, we shall now repeat the necessary V 61 I lf tllB 

, ^ ukaroaTta, 

rules. 

If we want to find the years, the days being given, 
the latter must necessarily be dm l days, Le. the differ- 
ence between the lunar days and the -dmerdira days. 

This difference {i.e. the dml days) stands in the same 
relation to their tinardf/ra as the difference between the 
universal lunar days and the universal u-nardtra days, 
vi z, I f $ 77 , 9 1 6,4 5 Q, OOO t to the un iversal i In m 'dir i days, 

1 1 lie 1 utter 1 ] u n 1 her (■/ r , 5 77,9 1 6.4 5 o ? ooo) is represen t ed 
by 3,506,481, If we multiply the given days by 55,739* 
and divide the product by 3,506,481, the quotient repre- 
ss nts the partial nnar&iv *a day s* Ad ding here to th e civil 
days, we get the number of lunar days, viz, the sum of 
the partial solar and the partial adMmdsa days. These 
lunar days stand in the same relation to the arlkimfisa 
days which belong to them as the sum of the uni- 
versal solar and adMmdsa days, viz. t6 0,299,900,000, 
to the universal ad him dm days, which number {L<\ 
160,299.900,000) is represented by the number 178,111, 

If you, further, multiply the partial lunar days by 
5311, and divide the product by 178,111, the quotient 
is the number of the partial adhimdm days. Subtract- 
ing them from the lunar days, the remainder is the 
number of solar days. Thereupon you reduce the clays 
to months by dividing them by 30, and the months to 
years by dividing them by 12 . This is what we want 
to find, 

the partial civil days which have elapsed up to 


44 


ALBBRVNPS INDIA . 


Application 
olr tb* rllJo 
to til Q 
yaUge-yeftTi 


Rule for 
tJi* siime 
)iLltpnftG 

driven by 
Yfi r kiib llm 
TiVrik. 


Explanation 
of the. latter 
metti lk 3. 


our gauge-year are 720,635,951,963. This number is 
given, and what we want to find is, how many Indian 
years and months are equal to this sum of days. 

First, we multiply tho number by 55,739, and divide 
the product by 3, 506,48 L The quotient is 1 1,455,224,575 
4 nard£ra days* 

We add this number to the civil days. The sum is 
732,091,176,538 lunar days* We multiply them by 
5311, and divide the product by 1 78, 1 1 r* The quotien t 
is the number of adkm&sa days, viz. 2 1*829,849,01 8. 

We subtract them from the Lunar days and get 
the remainder of 710,261,327,520, i.e> partial solar 
days. We divide these by 30 and get the quotient of 
23,675,377,584, *Le. solar months. Dividing them by 
1 2, we get Indian years, via. 1,972,948,132, the same 
number of years of which our gauge-date consists, as we 
have already mentioned in a previous passage. 

Yakub I bn Turife lias a note to the same effect : 
(< Multiply the given civil days by the universal lunar 
days and divide the product by the universal civil 
days. Write down the quotient in two different places. 
In the one place multiply the number by the universal 
adhimAsa days and divide the product by the universal 
lunar days. The quotient gives the adhwidsa months* 
Multiply them by 30 and subtract the product from 
the number in tho other place. The remainder is tho 
number of partial solar days. You further reduce them 
to months and years.” 

The rationale of this calculation is the following — 
We have already mentioned that the given number of 
days are the difference between the lunar days and 
their itnar&tm, as the universal civil days are the dif- 
ference between the universal lunar days and their 
universal dnanU-m, These two measures stand in a 
constant relation to each other. Therefore we get the 
partial lunar days which are marked in two different 
places* Now, these are equal to the sum of the solar 


P.-lgB 


CHAPTER LI I. 


45 


and adfdm&m days, as the? general lunar days ary equal 
to the sum of universal solar days and universal nAhi- 
wtUa days. Therefore the partial and the universal 
adhiifidm days stand in the same relation to each other 
as the two numbers written in two different places, there 
being no difference whether they both mean months 
or days. 

The following rule of Vakf'iL for the computation of l . 

the partial ihiar&tva days by means of the partial ad hi- 
•tnam months is found in all the manuscripts of his i^'-Oni vn:<..- 

1 rrXtm days. 

hook : — 

“The past aJJdrsuisa, together with the fractions of the 
current adhimdm, are multiplied by the universal 4 m- 
rtUra days, and the product, is divided by the universal 
solar months* The quotient is added to the adhirndm. 

The sum is the number of the past unarMrmd 

This ride does not, as I think, show that its author criticism 
knew the subject thoroughly, nor that he had much 
confidence either in analogy or experiment, For the 
adkinidsa months which have passed of the calurijiiga 
up to our gauge-date are, according to the theory of 
Pulisa, i , 196,5 251 Multiplying this number by 

the t 'marMrtt of the mUirynga 7 we get the product 
30,01 1 ,600 . 068 ,4 2 6 ybk . T>i\ id i 11 g this n u m bar by th e 
solar months, we get the quotient 578^27. Adding 
this to the adhivtdm^ we get the sum 1,775 45 ^ And 
this is not what we wanted to find. On the contrary, 
the number of 4 nardCn days is 18.835,700. Nor is 
the product of the multiplication of this number by 30 
that which we wanted to find. On the contrary, it 
is 53,263^60. Both numbers are far-away from the 
truth. 


( 46 ) 


Mcthu-Ji 4jf 

afen rtm'ijn b 
applied to 

dates. 


iFetliod of 
Lluj KIlail- 

j r :Xka, 


CHAPTER LIT I. 

ON THE AH ARCANA, OR THE RESOLUTION 01’ YEARS INTO 
MONTHS, ACnOlit'JNG TO SPECIAL RULES WHICH ARE 
ADOPTED IN THE- CALENDARS FOR CERTAIN DATES 
OR MOMENTS OF TIME. 

Not all the eras which in the calendars are resolved 
into days have epochs falling at such moments of time 
when just an ztdhimdsa or 'AnanUrn happens to be com- 
plete. Therefore the authors of the calendars require 
for the calculation of ml hmutsa and fiwffr&t'W certain 
numbers which either must be added or subtracted if 
the calculation is to proceed in good order. "We shall 
communicate to the reader whatever of these rules we 
happened to learn by the study of their calendars or 
as tron om i cal h and bo oks. 

First, we mention the rule of the KJuiitdailidfh/^k^ 
because this calendar is the best known of all, and pre- 
ferred by the astronomers to all others. 

* , 

Brahmagupta says: <+ Take the year of the BakaMhi, 
s n btract there from j 8 7 a nmlti j d y th e re m aind e r \ >y 1 2 , 
and add to the product the complete months which have 
elapsed of the year in question. Multiply the sum by 
30, and add to the product the days which have elapsed 
of the current month. The sum represents the partial 
solar days. 

"Write down this number in three different places. 
Add 5 both to the middle and lower numbers, and 
di vid e th e lo we st one by 1 4,94 5 . S u btract th e q u otien t 


CHAPTER LI II. 


47 


from (.he middle number, and disregard the remainder 
which you have got by the division* Divide the middle 
number by 97 6.. The quotient is the number of com- 
plete adhiui&sa months, and the remainder is that which 
has elapsed of the current adhAmum month- 

“ Multiply these months by 30. and add the product 
to the upper number. The sum is the number of the 
partial lunar days. Let them stand in the upper place, 
and write the same number in the middle place. Mul- 
tiply it by 1 1, and add thereto 497. Write this sum 
in the lower place. Then divide the sum. by 111,573. 

Subtract the quotient from the middle number, and dis- 
regard the remainder (which you get by the division). 

Further* divide the middle number by 703, and the 
quotient represents the- unardl ra days, the remainder 
the a va m S u btrac t the 4 na rti t v ■«. d ay s f r om the up per 
number. The remainder is the number of civil days/’ f*sg aae. 

T b is i s the aha ? yan a of the Khan dakhddya ha . Thvi d- 
ingthe number by 7. the remainder indicate 5 the week- 
day on which the date in question falls. 

We exemplify this rule in the case of our gauge-year. ;yg^ atiDn 
The corresponding year of the Bahakdia is 953. W 0 jnorw to 
subtract therefrom 587, and get the remainder 366. >w.' 

Wr multiply it by the product of 12 x 30, since the 
date is without months and days. The product is 
131.760, ie. solar days.. 

We write down this number in three diife rent places. 

We add 5 to the middle and lower numbers, whereby 
we get 131,765 in both places. We divide the lower 
number by [4,945. The quotient is 8, which we sub- 
tract from the middle number, and here we get the 
remainder [31757. Then we disregard the remainder 
in which the division has resulted. 

Further , we divide the middle number by 976, The 
quotient [34 represents the number of months. There 
is- besides a remainder of |-f^ h Multiplying the months 
by 30, we got the product 4020, which we add to the 


Method of 
the Arabic 
book Al- 
arfeand- 


48 A LB E RUN PS INDIA , 

solar days. Thereby we get lunar days, viz K 135,780. 
We write down this number below the three numbers, 
multiply it by n, and add 497 to tko product-. Tbtus 
we get the sum [494,077. We write this number 
below the lour numbers, and divide it by I [1,573* The 
quotient: is 1 3, and the remainder, i P e. 43,628, is dis- 
regarded.* Wo subtract the quotient from the middle 
number. Thus we get the remainder, 1,494,064. We 
divide it by 703, The quotient is 21.25, an ^ the re- 
mainder, «.6i amflta, is J-g-g-. We subtract the quotient 
from the lunar days, and get the remainder 133.653. 
These are the civil days which we want to find* Divid- 
ing them by 7, we get 4 as remainder. Therefore the 
l st of the month Caitra of the gauge-year falls on a 
Wednesday. 

The epoch of the era of Yasdajird precedes the epoch 
of this era (v, era nr- 5, p. 7) by 1 1*968 days. There- 
fore the sum of the days of the era of Yazdajird up to 
our gauge-date is 145,623 days. Dividing them by the 
Persian year and months, we get as tlie corresponding 
Persian date the year of Yazdajird 399, the 1 8th Isjan- 
d/mmdk* Before the adlmndm month becomes com- 
plete with 30 days, there must still elapse five ghuti, 
v'. & t wo 1 1 on re. It 1 con seq 1 1 enee, th © year is a 1 eap y ear, 
and Gaitra is the month which is reckoned twice in it. 

The following is the method of the canon or calendar 
Ai-arh'nid. according to a bad translation: if If you 
want to know the Arlmnd, be, ahargrina^ take 90, mul- 
tiply it by 6, add to the product 8, and the years of 
the realm of Sindh, i.e* the time till the month Safar, 
A.Hp 117, which corresp on da to the Caitra of the year 
109. Subtract therefrom 5S7, and the remainder re- 
presents the years of the Slui'kk, 

An easier method is the following: ;i Take the com- 
plete years of the Arm Ymdmimli, and su btract there- 
from 33, The remainder represents the years of the 
Sheikh. Or you may also begin with the original ninety- 


CHAPTER bill. 


49 


years of the Art and. Multiply them by 6 } and add 14 
to the product. Add to the sum the years of the Aera 
Y azd-aj i> d i, and snbh met theref rom 387. The rem ainder 
represents the years of the Shalck” 

\ believe that the here- mentioned Skakh is identical 
with 8al:a+ However, the result of this calculation does 
not lead ns to the A*.ka era , but- to the Gupta era , which 
here is resolved into days. If the author of the Arkand 
began with 90, multiplied them by 6, added thereto S, 
which would give 548; and did not change this number 
by an increase of years* the matter would come to the 
same result* and would be more easy and simple. 

The first of the month Safar* which the author of the 
latter method mentions .coincides with the eighth D aim a h 
of the year 103 of Yazdajird. Therefore be makes the 
month C aitra depend upon the new moon of D aim ah. 
However, the Persian months have since that time been 
in advance of real time, because the day -quarters (after 
the 365 complete days) have no longer been inter- 
calated* According to the author, the era of the realm 
of Sindh which he mentions must precede the era of 
Yazdajird by six years. Accordingly* the years of 
this era for our gauge-year would be 405* These 
together with the years of the Arkand, with which the 
author begins, viz, 548, represent the sum of 953 years 
as the year of the S akaMIa. By the subtraction of 
that amount which the author has mentioned, it is 
changed into the corresponding year of the Gvpta- 
L Ala. 

The other details of this method of resolution or 
ah.arr/ana are identical with those of the method of the 
KkaiidukhAfft/aJc a, t as we have- described it. Sometimes 
you find in a manuscript such a reading as prescribes 
the division by 1000 instead of by 976, but this is 
simply a mistake of the manuscripts, as such a method 
is without any foundation. 

Next follows the method of Vijayauandiu 111 his 

VOL, IL 0 


Critical 
nutca fell til a 
Latin] r 
mutboiL 


I'SigC -a 2 Jr 


A LB BRUNTS INDIA. 


Mfithnci ■« i T 
t-llC I "II 
Js^.rx'.naii- 
iaXxt., 


Application 
(?f L]j1e 
method to 
the 
ycflTr 


5 ° 

can mi called Kwmn.atilaku : " Take the years of the 
Kakakdlrt, subtract therefrom 888, multiply the re- 
mainder by i2, and add to the product the complete 
months ol the current year which have elapsed. Write 
down the sum m two different places. Multiply the 
one number by 900, add 66 j to the product, and divide 
th e 5ii hi by 29,282, T b e q u otien t repi * esente adh i n \ dm 
months- Add it to the number in the second place, 
multiply the sum by 30, and add to the product the 
days which have elapsed of the currant month- The 
s u m rep rase nts the In n ar d ay s . Write do w 1 1 this n u m - 
ber in two different places. 11 ultiply the one number 
by 3300, add to the prod.net 64,106, divide the sum by 
2 1 0.902. The qnot ient represents the r d?iard$fa days, 
an d the rema inder th e ara m as. S 11 h tract t h e v,na rdf ) h a 
day s from (he b. 1 n ar d ay s . Th e re m ainde r i s 1 1 ie ah i ir- 
f/ana, being reckoned from midnight as the beginning/ 5 

Wr exemplify this method in the use of our gauge - 
year- We subtract from the corresponding year of the 
Hafcakala (953) 88 S ; and there remains 63 > This num- 
ber of years is equal to 7S0 months. We write down 
this number in two different places. In the one place 
we multiply it by 900. add thereto 661. and divide the 
product by 29,282. The quotient gives 234£5H a dld- 
mdsa months. 

The multiplicator is 30, By being multiplied by it. 
the months are changed into days. The product, how- 
ever, is again multiplied by 30. The divisor is the pro- 
duct of the multiplication of 976 plus the following 
fraction by 30. the effect of which is that, both numbers 
belong to the same kind {Le. that both represent days). 
Further, we add the resulting number of months to 
those months which we have previously found. By 
multiplying the sum by 30, we got the product of 
24,060 (read 24,090), i.e. lunar days. 

We write them down in two different places. The. 
one number we multiply by 3300 and gob the product 


CHAPTER LIU, 51 

79,398,000 {read 79,497,000), Adding thereto 64,106 
(raid 69,60 r), wo get the sum 79462,104 (read 
79,566,601:). By dividing it by 210,902, we get the 
quotient 376 {read 307), Le. 'dtumUra days, and a re- 
ma inde r of 4 { f IJ -f; | (•? ™7 / piW^)i ?'■ f> - th e ??? m . W e 
subtract the days from the lunar days, 

written in the second place, and the remainder is 
the civil riharf/anaj Le. the sum of the civil days, via, 
23,684 (read 23,713). 

The method of the Fa Ac a^Skidh andku of Yarfthami- 
1 lira is the following ; lc Take the years of the SahaMla., 
subtract therefrom 427 . Change the remainder into 
months by multiplying it by 12. Write down that 
number in two different places. Multiply the one 
number by 7 and divide the product by 228. The 
quotient is the number of fulhimtim months. Add 
them to the number written down in the second place, 
multiply the sum by 30, and add to the product tlie 
days which have elapsed of tlie current month. Write 
down the sum In two different places. Multiply the 
lower number by 1 1, add to the product 514 and divide 
the sum by 703, Subtract the quotient from the num- 
ber written in tlie upper place. The remainder you 
get is the number of the civil days/' 

This, Varahatnihira says, is the method of the -Si d- 
d bant a of the Greeks* 

We exemplify this method in one of our gauge-yearG* 
From the years of the bakakfila we subtract 427* The 
remainder, -Lc. 526 years, is equal to 63 t 2 months. 
The corresponding number of adJnmdsa months is 193 
and a remainder of \ :p The sum of these months 
together with the other months is 6305. which are equal 
to 193430 lunar days. 

The additions which occur in this method are required 
on account of the fractions of time which adhere to the 
epoch of the era in question. The multiplication by 7 is 
for the purpose of reducing the number to seventh parts. 


Meihijil ijJ 
th* Pafita- 

MtidkAntm* 


FagC -J 


Application 
of this 
method to 

UlC iLMllgU- 

veur. 


$2 


A LB BRUNTS INDIA. 


Mathod of 
tt-c Arabic 
canon 
A ir-havkaii. 


The divisor is the number of sevenths of the time of 
one adhimdsfy which he reckons as 32 months, 1 7 days, 
8 ghati, and about. 34 caskaka. 

Turther* wc write down the lunar days in two diffe- 
rent places. The lower number we multiply by it, 
and add to the product 514. The sum is 2*147, 164. 
Dividing it by 703, we get the quotient 3054* 'U. the 
fmar&tra days, and a remainder of f-[Kv "We subtract 
the days from the number in the second place, and 
get the remainder 192,096, -Le+ the civil days of the 
date on which we base the chronological computations 
of this book. 

The theory of Yauilhamiliira comes very near that of 
Brahmagupta; for here the fraction at the end of the 
number of the adM-m&sa- days of the gauge -date is j f, 
whilst, in the calculations which we have made, starting 
from the beginning of the hrdpa, we found it to be J £ 
which is nearly equal to j } {>■/. p. 29;. 

In a Muhammadan canon or calendar called the canon 
Al-hwrknn we find the same method of calculation, but 
applied to and starting from another era, the epoch of 
which must fall 40,081 (days) after that of the era of 
Yaadajird, According to this book, the beginning of th e 
Indian year falls on Sunday the 21st of Daimfi.h of the 
year no of Yazdajird, The method may be tested in 
the following manner : — 

" Take seventy-two years, change them into months 
by multiplying them by 12, which gives the product 
864 ► Add thereto the months which have elapsed 
between the ist of Slrnban of the year 197, and the 
1st of the month in which you happen to be. Write 
down the sum in two different places. Multiply the 
lower number by 7 and divide the product by 22%, 
Add the quotient to the upper number and multiply 
the mm by 30. Add to the product the number of 
days which have elapsed of the month in which you 
are. Write down this number in two different places. 


CHAPTER L1IL 


53 


Add 38 to the lower number and multiply the sum by 
ir. Divide the product by 703, and subtract the quo- 
tient from the upper number* The remainder in the 
upper place is the number of the civil days, and the 
remainder in the lower place is the number of the 
a mmm. Add 1 to the number of clays and divide the 
sum by 7. The remainder shows the day of the week 
on which the date in question falls.” 

This method would be correct if the months of the 
seventy-two years with which the calculation begins 
were lunar. However. they are solar months, in which 
nearly twenty-seven months must be intercalated, 
so that those seventy -two years are more than 864 
months. 

We shall again exemplify this method in the case of 
our gauge-date, Le. the beginning of Rabf I., A.n, 422. 
Between the above- mentioned 1st of Shabun and the 
latter date there have elapsed 2695 months. Adding 
these to the number of mouths adopted by the author 
of the method (864), you get the sum of 3559 months. 
Write down this number in two places. Multiply 
the one by *j 7 and divide the product, by 22 %, The 
quotient represents the mlhimdsa months, via, 109. 
Add them to the number in the other place, and you 
get the sum 3 668. Multiply it by 30, and you get the 
product 110,040. Write down this number in two 
different places. Add to the lower number 38, and 
you get 1 10,078. Multiply it by 1 1 and divide the 
product by 703. The quotient is \J 22 aud a remain- 
der of 292. ijc. the Subtract the quotient from 

the upper number, and the remainder, 108,318, repre- 
sents the civil days. 

This method is to be amended in the following way : 
You must know that between the epoch of the era here 
used and the first of Sha'ban. here adopted as a date, 
th ere 1 1 a v c el a p sed 25,958 d ay s, ix, 87 6 A rabi e months, 
or seventy-three years and two months. If we further 


Appii.e*t!fru 
m tilt, 
method tn 
the tfau pe- 
date. 


PftgO 22 9. 


11 111 ea data on 
cf fctiu 
method. 


54 


ALBERUNPS INDIA , 


Method uf 

LJt.lf JllbhU: Of 

MuLtAn, 


add to this number the months which have elapsed 
between that Tst Sha'ban and the ist Rabf I. of the 
gauge-year, we get the sum of 357 r h and, together with 
the ftdhhamii months. 36 Bo months, i.r. 1 10,400 days. 
The corresponding number of nnarMra- days is 1727, 
and a remainder of 319 immim* Subtracting these 
days, we get the remainder 108,673. If we now sub- 
tract land divide the remainder by 7, the computation 
is correct, for the remainder is 4, <r. the day of the 
gauge-date is a Wednesday, as lias above (p. 48) been 
stated. 

The method of Durlabha, a native of Multan, is the 
following : — Ho takes £48 years and adds thereto the 
Laukik a- k hi a . The gum is the S aka kala. He s ub tracts 
therefrom 8 5 4.. and changes, the remainder of years into 
months. He writes them down together with the past- 
mouths of the current year in three different places. 
The lower number he multiplies by 77, and divides 
the product by 69.120. The quotient he subtracts 
from the middle number, doubles the remainder, and 
adds thereto 29. The sum he divides by 63, so as to 
get adkimdaa months. He adds them to the upper 
number and multiplies the sum by 30. He writes 
down the product together with the past days of the 
current month in two different places. He multiplies 
the lower number by ri and adds to the product 686. 
The sum he writes underneath* He divides it by 
403,963, and adds the quotient to the middle number. 
He divides the sum by 703. The quotient represents 
the -ilnardlra days. He subtracts them from the upper 
number. The remainder is the civil ahmywna, i.e* the 
sum of the civil days of the date in question. 

We have already in a former place mentioned the 
outlines of this method. After the author, Durlabha, 
had adopted it for a particular date, Ike made some 
additions, whilst, the bulk of it is unchanged. How- 
ever, the Karanasara forbids introducing any innovations 


CHAPTER LIU. 


S3 


which in the method of ahargana deviate to some other 
process. Unfortunately that which we possess of the 
book is badly translated. What, we are able to quote 
from it is the following : — 

He subtracts 82 1 from the years of the Sakakala. 

The remainder h the basin. This would be the year 
132 for our gauge-year. He writes down ibis number 
in three different places. He multiplies tlm first num- 
ber by T32 degrees. The product gives the number 
1 7 j 4 2 4 for our gauge-date. He multiplies the second 
number by 46 minutes, and gets the product 6072. 

He multiplies the third number by 34* and gets the 
product 4488, He divides it by 50, and the quotient 
represents minutes, seconds, &c M viz, 89' 46^. Then 
he adds to the sum of degrees in the upper place 
112, changing the seconds to minutes, the minutes to 
degrees, the degrees to circles. Thus ho gets 48 circles 
358 41' 46", This is the mean place of the moon when 
the sun enters Aries. m 

Further, he divides the degrees of the mean place of 
the moon by 12, The quotient represents days. The 
re mainder of the division he multiplies by 60, and adds 
thereto the minutes of the mean place of the moon. He 
divides the sum by 12, and the quotient represents Pag* ago. 
1 ykaf/is and minor portions of time. Tints we get 27° 

23' 29", i.c. adMm dm days. iS'o doubt this number 
represents the past portion of the atHmndsa month, 
which is at present in the course of formation. 

The author, in regard to the manner in which the 
measure of the adhiffidm month is found, makes the 
following remark : — ■ 

lie divides the lunar number which we have men- 
tioned, viz. 132° 46' 34", by 12. Thereby he gets as 
the purtio uuni 11 3 ' 52 ' $Q ff \ and as the jpovtio memix 
o° 55' 19" 24/" IO r T By means of the latter portio he 
computes the duration of the time in which 30 days 
sum up as 2 years, 8 months. 16 days, 4 f/hali, 45 


5* 


ALBERUNVS INDIA > 


m&haka* Then he multiplies the lams by 29 and gets 
the product 3828, He adds thereto 20, and divides 
the sum by 36. The quotient represents the ihiardim 
days* via, iq5f- 

However, as I have not been able to hud the proper 
explanation of this method, I simply give it as T find 
it, but 1 must remark that the amount of miarittnt 
days which corresponds to a single adMmdsa month is 

tfh 7 Si £ T 
1 Si' I Hi a a' 


C 57 ) 


CHAPTER I /IV. 

ON THE COMPUTATION OF THE MEAN PLACES OF THE 
FLAN KTS. 


If we know the number of cycles of the planets in a 
kaipa or mtvryw}fi f mid further know how many cycles 
have elapsed at a certain moment of time, we also 
know that the sum -total of the days of the bilpn or 
caiary'Uga stands in the same relation to the sum-total 
of the cycles as the past days of the kalpa or r.a£nryttfjft- 
to the corresponding amount of planetary cycles. The 
most generally used method Is this : — 

The past- days of the kaipa or cahm/uga are multi- 
plied by the cycles of the planet, or of its apsis, or of its 
node which it describes in a kaipa or mturyuga. The 
product is divided by the sum -total of the days of the 
kaipa or calmynga accordingly as yon reckon by the 
one or the other. The quotient represents complete 
cycles. These, however, because not wanted, are dis- 
regarded. 

The remainder which you get by the division is mul- 
tiplied by 12, and the product is divided by the sum- 
total of the days of either kaipa or caiv/ryuga by which 
wo have already once divided. The quotient repre- 
sents signs of the ecliptic. The remainder of this divi- 
sion is multiplied by 30, and the product divided by 
the same divisor. The quotient represents degrees. 
The remainder of this division is multiplied by 60, 
and is divided by the same divisor. The quotient 
represents minutes. 


Oenetal 
method Fa-r 
tha jetQT- 
n jin; it ion of 

t, L L 0 ILL BiJLn 

pLu&oc! of :l 
planet at 
any given 
Utiie. 


s* 


ALBER UNFS INDIA . 


Hetlwtf of 
Pi i nr 

the aaiin* 
ptirpOBe, 


Expliiu iv 
tUry jjuto 
thCTCOli, 


This kind of computation may be continued if we 
want to have seconds anil minor values. The quotient 
represents the place of that planet according to its 
mean motion, or the place of that apsis or that node 
which we wanted to find* 

The same is also mentioned by Pnlisa, but his 
method differs, as follows: — “ After having found 
the complete cycles which have elapsed at o cer- 
tain moment of time, he divides the remainder by 
131,493,150. The quotient represents the mean signs 
of the ecliptic. 

“The remainder is divided by 4,383,105. The quo- 
tient represents degrees. The fourfold of the remainder 
ia d i vi d ed by 2 92 . 2 07 * r Vh e qn otient represen ts in in 1 it es . 
The remainder is multiplied by 60 and the product 
divided by the last-mentioned divisor. The quotient- 
re presents seconds. 

“This calculation may be continued, so m to give 
third parts, fourth parts, and minor values. The quo- 
tient tints found is the mean place of the planet which 
we want to find/* 

The fact is that Pulisa was obliged to multiply the 
remainder of the cycles by 12, and to divide the pro- 
duct by the days of a cahwiptga, because his whole 
computation is based on the cakiryuga. Bub instead 
of doing this, he divided by the quotient, which yon 
get if you divide the number of days of a caiuryuya by 
12. This quotient is the first number he mentions, viz. 
131,493,130. 

Farther, he was obliged to multiply the remainder 
of the signs of the ecliptic by 30, and to divide the 
product by the first divisor ; but instead of doing this, 
he divided by the quotient which yon get if you divide 
the first number by 30, This quotient is the second 
nuni ber, viz. 4,383,105. 

According to the same analogy, he wanted to divide 
the remainder of the degrees by the quotient which 


CHAPTER LIV . 


59 


you get if you divide tin? second number by 6o< How- 
ever, making this division, he got as quotient 73,051 
and a remainder of j r Therefore he multiplied the 
whole by 4, in order that the fractions should he raised 
to wholes. For the Fame reason he also multiplies 
the- following remainder by 4; but when he did not 
get wholes, as has been indicated, he returned to mul- 
tiplying by 60. SJT+ 

if we apply this method to a kalpa according to the 
theory of Brahmagupta* the first number, by which the 
remainder of the cycles is divided, is 1 3 1493 ,03 7, 500, 

The second number, by which the .remainder of the 
signs of the ecliptic is divided. Is 4,383,101,250, The 
third number, by which the remainder of the degrees 
is divided, is 73,051,687. In the remainder which vve 
get by this division there h the fraction of ^ There- 
fore we take the double of the number, via. 146.103,375. 
and we divide by it the double of the remainder of 
minutes, 

Brahmagupta, however, does not reckon by the kalpa Br&iim*. 
and catvryuga^ on account of the enormous sums of {jlieTthia 
their days, but prefers to them the kalipwpu in order 
to facilitate the calculation. Applying the preceding amain t- 
method of ahmpanct to the precise date of the kalipiitja, nQiah ' yfi " 
we multiply its sum of days by the star-cycles of a 
kalpa . To the product we add the basis, i.e. the remain- 
ing cycles which the planet had at the beginning of 
the kaliyuya* We divide the sum by the civil days 
of the via. 157,791,645., The quotient repre- 

sents the complete cycles of the planet, which are dis- 
regarded. 

The remainder we compute in the above-described 
manner, and thereby we Hud the mean place of the 
planet. 

The hero- mentioned bases are the following for the 
single planets : — 


6o 


A LB ER UNI'S INDIA. 


Hathal* Qt 

the Kkm'fda- 
diiy cut n. , 

iitfcHi lull ! 


For Mara, 4,308,768,0 00. 

For Mercury, 4,288,896,000* 

For Jupiter, 4,313,5,20,000. 

For You us, 4,304,448,000. 

For Satu m, 4,305,312, GOO. 

For the Suns apsis, 933,120,000. 

For the Moon’s apsis, 1,505.95 2,000. 

For the ascending node, 1,838,592,000 (v. the notes). 

At the same moment, f Le, at the beginning of the kali- 
yuga, sn n and moon stood according to their mean 
motion in o° of Aries, and there was n either a j rtm nor 
a -minus consisting of an adJdmdsa month or of fina- 
rdtra days. 

In the above-mentioned canones or calendars we find 
the following method : — " The ahargana-, i.e, the sum of 
the days of the date, is, for each planet respectively, 
multi plied by a certain number, and the product is 
divided by another number. The quotient represents 
complete cycles and fractions of cycles, according to 
mean motion. Sometimes the computation becomes 
perfect simply by tills multiplication and division. 
Sometimes, in order to get a perfect result, you are 
compelled once more to divide by a certain number 
the days of the date, either such as they are, or multi- 
plied by some number. The quotient must then be 
combined with the result obtained in the first place. 

Sometimes, too, certain numbers are adopted, as e.fj. 
the basis, which must either be added or subtracted for 
this purpose, in order that the mean motion at the 
beginning of the era should be computed as beginning 
with o'- of Arks. This is the method of the books 
JOiand a hhddy akit and Kwmnaiilaka. However, the 
author of the Karanasdra computes the mean places of 
the planets for the vernal equinox, and reckons the 
ahargtmti from this moment. But these methods are 
very subtle, and are so numerous, that none of them has 


CHAPTER LIV. 


61 


obtained any particular authority. Therefore we refrain 
f rom reproducing them, as this would detain m too long 
and be of no use. 

The other methods of the computation of the mean 
places of the planets and similar calculations have 
nothing to do with the subject of the present booh. 


( 62 ) 


Traditional 

Viu^ Jiii Hi* 
*HH Larlrig 
ljuti>w t^e 
motm. 


Popular 
TLOtk'ILg of 
aEtiouomy. 

Cil.W 2^2. 


CHAPTER LV* 

ON THE ORDER OF THE PLANETS, THEIR DISTANT 
AND SIZES. 

WHEN speaking of the toka&, we have already given a 
quotation from the and from, the com- 

mentary of Patafijali. according to which the place of 
the sun is in the order of the planets below that of the 
moon. This is the traditional view of the Hindus. 
Compare in particular the following passage of the 
Maiv/a-Fm y Uia : — 

"The distance of heaven from the earth is equal to 
the radius of the earth. The sun is the lowest of all 
planets. Above him there is the moon, and above 
the moon are the lunar stations and their stars. 
Above them is Mercury, then follow Venus, Mars, 
Jupiter, Saturn, the Great Rear, and above it the pole. 
The pole is connected with the heaven. The stars can- 
not be counted by man. Those who impugn this view 
maintain that the moon at conjunction becomes hidden 
by the sun, as the light of the lamp becomes invisible 
in the light of the sun, and she becomes more visible 
the more she moves away from the sum" 

We shall now give some quotations from the books 
of this school relating to the sun, thu moon, and the 
stars, and we shall combine- herewith the views of the 
astronomers, although of the latter we have only a very 
slen d er kn o w E ed go. 

The Vcfofit-Pnrdiia say a: ^ The sun has globular 
shape, fiery nature, and 1000 rays, by which he attracts 


CHAPTER L V. 


the water ; 400 of these are for the rain, 300 for the 
Snt>w f and 300 for the air,” 

I11 another passage it says : Some of them (i.e. the 
rays) are for this purpose, that the devas should live in 
bliss; others for the purpose that men should live in 
com fort r whilst others are destined for the fathers.” 

In another passage the author of the Vdyn-Ihirdua 
divides the rays of the sun over the six seasons of the 
year, saying 1 " The sun illuminates the earth 111 that 
third of the year which commences with 0° of Pisces 
by 300 rays ; Ik? causes rain in the following third by 
400 rays, and he causes cold and snow in the remain- 
ing third by 300 rays/ 5 

Another passage of the same book runs as follows : 
,f The rays of the sun and the wind raise the water 
from (lie sea to the sun. Now 1 , if the water dropped 
down from the sun, it would be hot. Therefore the sun 
hands the water over to the moon, that it should drop 
down from the moon cold, and thus refresh the world. 15 

Another passage: “The heat of the sun and Ins 
light are one -fourth of the heat and the light of the [Ire, 
In the north, the sun falls into the water during the 
night 1 therefore he becomes red." 

Another passage : ff In the beginning there were the 
earth, water, wind, and heaven. Then Brahman per- 
ceived sparks under the earth. He brought them forth 
ami divided them into three parts. One third of them 
is the common fire, which requires wood and is extin- 
guished by water. Another third is the sun, and the 
1 as t t.l 1 i rd is t h e ligb tn i n g. 1 n th e an i in al ?, too, fch e re is 
lire, which cannot be extinguished by water. The mu 
attracts the water, the lightning shines through the 
rain, but the Eire in the animals is distributed over the 
moist substances by which they nourish themselves/ 5 
The Hindus seem to believe that the heavenly bodies 
nourish themselves by the vapours* which also Aris- 
totle mentions as the theory of certain people. Thus 


QllljfcLl.jQUS 
fi-'kai r'l'i - 


Cm the 
iiiitLtrn cf 

the frtarfc 


Quotation 

t Pl'lTJl thu 
Dint lVJctf, 


64 A L BE RUN PS INDIA. 

the author of the V-iskmi-Bharma explains that the 
sun nourishes the- moon and tin?- stars. If the sun did 
not exist, there would not be a star, nor angel, nor man .’ 1 

The Hindus believe regarding the bodies of all the 
stars that tlioy have a globular shape, a watery essence, 
and that they do not shine, whilst the sun aloft is of fiery 
essence, self-shining, and per aedden* illuminates other 
stars when they stand opposite to him. They reckon, ac- 
cording to eyesight, among the stars also such luminous 
bodies as in reality are not stars, but the lights into 
which those men have been metamorphosed who have 
received eternal reward from God, arid reside in the 
height of heaven on thrones of crystal. The Vishnn~ 
1) harm a says : li The stars are watery, and the rays of 
the sun illuminate them in the night. Those who by 
their pious deeds have obtained a place 111 the height 
sit there on their thrones, and t when shining, they are 
reckoned among the stars,” 

All the stars are called Idra , which word is derived 
from tara-n&i the passage. The Idea is that those 
saints have pasted through the wicked world and have 
reached bliss, and that the stars pass through heaven in 
a circular motion. The word nohdkatra is limited to 
the stars of the lunar stations. As, however, all of 
these are called faced stars t the word nahdkaira also 
applies to all the fixed stars ; for it means not increas- 
ing and, not derreomnfj. T for my part am inclined to 
think that this increasing and decreasing refers to their 
number and to the distances of the one from the other, 
but the author of the last-mentioned book (VdJfno- 
Bharm(t) combines it with their light. For he adds, 
5i as the moon increases and decreases." 

Further, there is a passage in the same book where 
Markandeya says : The stars which do not perish be- 
fore the end of the Irdpa are equal to a ni&harm i i.e. 
IOO. 000 : 000 ,OOD. Th e n um her of those w hich fa 11 down 
before the end of a halpa is unknown. Only he can 
know it who dwells in the height during a kalpr.C' 


CHAPTER L 3/, 


65 

V aj r a spo ke : s 0 IV l r-i.r kail d eya, 1 . 1 1 0 1 1 hast l i ye rl d 1 1 rin g 
six kalptts* This is thy seventh kalpa. Therefore why 
dost thou not know them ?” 

lie answered 1 if If they always remained in the same 
condition, not changing as long as they exist, I should 
not be ignorant of them* However, they perpetually 
raise some pious man and bring another down to the 
earth. Therefore I do not keep them in my memory/’ 

Regarding the diameters of sun and in 0011 and their 0 the din- 
shadows the Jllat$?fn~Pnrdna says: “ The diameter of ri^p^netB. 
the body of the sun is 9000 't/er/amis ; the diameter of 
the moon is the double of it, and the apsis is as much 
as the two together/ 1 

The same occurs in the Vth/u-PvrtincL except that it 
says with regard to the apsis that it is equal to the sun 
when it is with the sun, and that it is equal to the 
moon when it is with the moon. 

Another author says : "’ The apsis is 50,00 Qyjojitnas.'’ 
Regarding the diameters of the planets the Matsytt- 
Purdna says: “The circumference of Venus is one- 
sjxteenth of the circumference of the moon, that of r^a^. 
Jupiter three-fourths of the circumference of Venus, 
that of Saturn or Mars throe-fourths of that of Jupiter, 
that of Mercury three-fourths of that of Mars/ 7 

The same statement is also found In the V&ywrPv/r&na* 

The same two books fix the circumference of the On the dr- 
great fixed stars as equal to that of Mercury, The next aFti^e 
smaller class have a circumference of 500 yofanas, the 
following classes 400, 300. and 200. But there are no 
fixed stars with a smaller circumference than 1 50 yojanas. 

Thus the VdtfU-P-Hrdna* Bnt the Matsya-lhf/rdmi 
says : if The next following classes have a circumference 
of 400, 300, 200, and too if 0 jams. But there is no fixed 
star with less circumference than a half yajana” 

The latter statement, however, looks suspicions to 
me, and is perhaps a fault in the manuscript. 

The author of Yisknu-Bkarma says, relating the 
VOL* II, E 


66 


ALBRRUNPS INDIA. 


Views u£ 
the Hiiudu. 
HStnynnmtTH 
mi (lie biLijj-e 


Quotation, 
from the 
Eatkhitd ot 
V urAhami ■ 
him., ehiii. 

K i-> 


words of Mil rkanc leva : “ Abhijit, the Falling Eagle 5 
Ardrd, the Sirius Vemenicus j Jloh-mi, or Aldnhadm ; 
Pvj&arvasv-t i.& the Two Heads of the Twins ; Fmkj/a, 
Remt% Aga&tya or Canopus, the Great Bear, the master 
of Vtit/u, the master of Abhhtdhnya, and the master 
of VtiHwh{ha t each of these stars has a clrcumfcr- 
ence of five yojanm. All the other stars have each 
only a circumference of four yojanas, I do not know 
those stars, the distance of which is not measurable. 
They have a circumference between four yojanas and 
two l/trok. ie. two miles. Those which have less cir- 
cumference than two kuroh are not seen by men, but 
only by the- devm™ 

The Hindus have the following theory regarding the 
magnitude of the stars, which is not traced back to any 
known authority ; " The diameters of the sun and moon 
are each 67 yojtmm ; that of the apsis k j 00 ; that of 
Venus ro, of Jupiter 9. of Saturn 8, of Mars 7, of Mer- 
cury 7.” 

This is all we have been able to learn of the confused 
notions of the Hindus regarding these subjects. We 
shall now pass on to the Hews of the Hindu astro- 
nomers with whom we agree regarding the order of the 
planets and other topics, viz. that the snu is the middle 
of the planets, Saturn and the moon their two ends, 
and that the fixed stars are above the planets. Some 
of these things have already been mentioned in the 
pr eced in g ch apte r s. 

Vavahamihira says in the book Samhitd : u The moon 
is always below the sun , who throws his rays upon her, 
and lits up the one half of her body, whilst the other 
half remains dark and shadowy like a pot which you 
place in the sunshine. The one half which faces the 
sun is lit up, whilst the other half which does not face 
it remains dark* The moon is watery in her essence, 
therefore the rays which fall on her are reflected, as 
they are reflected from the water and the mirror towards 


CHAPTER L V. 


67 

1 he wall. If the moon is in conjunction with the sun, 
the white part of her turns towards the suil the black 
part towards us. Then the white part sinks downward 
towards us slowly, as the sun marches away from the 
moon,” 

Every educated man among the Hindu theologians, 
and much more so among their astronomers, believes 
indeed that the moon is below the sun, and even below 
all the planets. 

The only Hindu traditions we have regarding the 
distances of the stars are those mentioned by Yak fib 

1 bn Tank in his book. The (krm-poTtwn of the 

and he bad drawn his in formation from the well-known 
Hindu scholar who, A.ii. 16 1, accompanied an embassy 
to Bagdad. First, he gives a metrological statement : 
“ A finger is equal to six barleycorns which are put 
one by the side of the other. An arm (yard) is equal to 
t wen ty -fo ur G n gers „ A fa) i s e qual to 1 6 h ooo y ard s r f 5 

FT ere, however, we must observe that the Hindus do 
not know th & farmkh, that it is, as we have already 
explained, equal to one half a yojtma, 

'Further, Yakfi b says : “ The diameter of the earth is 

2 J oo ft. t / v f /. -h t It s ci rcu mfe re nee 6 5 96 s f a 1 'm Irk* ' ' 

On this basis he has computed the distances of the 
planets as wc exhibit them in the following table. 

However, this statement regarding the size of the 
earth Is by no means generally agreed to by all the 
Hindus. So, e.y. Puli&a reckons its diameter as 1600 
// oj anas, audits circumference as ifoj^n-as, whilst 

Brahmagupta reckons the former as 1581 -j/ojan-as, and 
the latter as 5000 

If we double these numbers, they ought to be equal to 
the numbers of Yakub 1 but this is not the case. Now 
the yard and the mile are respectively identical accord- 
ing to the measurement, both of us and of the Hindus. 
According to our computation the radius of the earth is 
3184m il e s. R eckoningj acco r d in g to the c u stem of ou r 


I'a'kub Ibi t 
T:Vn k r.nj the 
dietarjcea of 
the stars. 


PuTiim and 
Brati mn. 
gnjihit on 
the name 

IS lib] liL- 1 , 


68 


A LBERUNVS INDIA. 


Fiig* 3^4- 


l>lftUincDB iif 
the planets 

fa-uni 

contra of the 

ear tli, ;ltm1 

thoJr 

metere, ac- 
cording 1 tfj 
Yak 61 , Jhn 
Ttoil;, 


* 35 - 


country, i/rwsflM = 3 miles, we get 6 ? 2 % ftmakh ; and 
reckoning i far.sakh = 1 6,000 yards, as is mentioned by 
Yakub, we get 5046 f&rmkh< Reckoning 1 yojantt — 
32.000 yards, we get 2523 yojanas. 

The following table is borrowed from the book of 
Yakub Ibn Tfirik 


"3 

J 

Pi 

a 

3 ” 

Ttmir dijiuija.H from rim 
centra of the earth, ami the it 
Jiamitfcra. 

The uonvcutimial 
meostim ■::■! thu 
distances, dilTorlng 
acctH'tllug ti> time 
a m3 plate, ttijMned 
InfQymkb, iftinakh 
- 16,000 fUs. 

Tliefr ooustant 

in^LiHLhL^. UflUriHl 

on Hie nhlhswof 
the ear A 1. 


Radius or the earth 

t,qSq 

T 

d L 

The smallest distance - 

37 >$Qo 

m 

§ 

'['ho middle distance 

4,8,500 

46 A 

* / 

The greatest. distance . 

59-..DOO 

&& 


Diameter of the moon 

5.000 

4 It 

u 

The amalleat distance , 

64,000 


$ } 

The middle distance . 

164,000 

T 565*1- 


The greatest distance 1 

264,000 

* 5 ^ 

r ±5 

Diameter of Mercery 

5 ? ooo 

4 M 

^ f 

The smallest distance , 

269,000 

2 56 jj- 

s 

The middle distance * , 

^09,500 

& 75 f 

£ l 

The greatest distance . 

i,i 50,000 

1. *> 9 S& 


Diameter of Venn* 

20,000 

i 9 rr 

. f 

The smallest distance . 

1,170.000* 

1 r 1 14 '/ 

i/m'A 

=4 

The middle distance 

x t 6g 0,000 

73 ( 

The greatest distance . 

2,210,000 

2, T04i f 


Diameter of the Son , 

20,000 

i 9 sk 

ri f 

T 1 ie enu idles t dist an ce , 

2,230,000 

3 pI 2 jir 

s 

The middle distance 

5 , 315,000 

5 .06 1 if 

2 ! 

T 1 to grea test d istnn ce - 

8,400,000 

8,coo 


Diameter o£ Mars 

20,000 

I 9 & 


The smallest, distance . 

8, 430,000 

8*019*4 

§4 

The middle distance 

1 1 ,410,000 

10,866$ 


The greatest distance r 

14,400,000 

i 3 JT 4 r 


Diameter of Jupiter . 

ZO,OdQ 


i \ 

The smallest distance . 

14,420,000 

r 3 . 7 33 ^ 

5 

The middle distance 

16,220,000 

i 5 , 447 |f 

ri j 

The greatest distance - 

18,020,000 

17 j6i-n 


Diameter of Saturn . 

20-000 

L 9 *x 

£ £ 

The radios of the outside 

20,000,000 

19,047^ 

| \ 

| j 

The radius of the inside 
Its circumference from 

19.962,000 

i,866| 1 jjffVi 

|( 

the outside 

[25+664,000 



CHAPTER LV. 


69 


This theory differs from that on which Ptolemy has 
based his computation of the distances of the planets 
in the Kitdb <dm am?t/&rd t , and in which he lias been 
follower] both by the ancient and the modern astrono- 
mers, It is their principle that the greatest distance 
of a planet is equal to its smallest distance from the 
nest higher planet, and that between the two globes 
there is not a space void of action. 

According to this theory, there is between the two 
globes a space not occupied by either of them, in which 
there is something like an axis around which the rota- 
tion takes place* It seems that they attributed to the 
re the r a certain gravity 5 in consequence of which they 
felt the necessity of adopting something which keeps or 
holds the inner globe {the planet) in the midst of the 
outer globe (the mther). 

It. is well known among all astronomers that there 
is no possibility of distinguishing between the higher 
and the lower one of two planets except by means of 
the QcovUaiion or the increase of the panrfhr. However, 
the occultation occurs only very seldom „ and only the 
parallax of a single planet, viz* the moon, can be ob- 
served. Now the Hindus believe that the motions are 
equal f but the distances different. The reason why the 
higher planet moves more slowly than the lower is the 
greater extension of its sphere {or orbit) ; and the reason 
why the lower planet moves more rapidly is that Its 
sphere or orbit is less extended. Thus, *vy. one minute 
in the sphere of Saturn is equal to 262 minutes in the 
sphere of the moon. Therefore the times in which 
Saturn and the moon traverse the same space are dif- 
ferent, whilst their motions are equal. 

I have never found a Hindu treatise on this subject, 
but only numbers relating thereto scattered in various 
books — n umbers which are corrupt. Somebody objected 
to P Li lisa that he reckoned the circumference of the 
sphere of each planet as 2 1 ,600 1 and its radius as. 3438, 


Ptolemy m 
Ihetllb' 
tance* of 

tlK: 

I'jiffc i -yj. 


On ocelli] Lii - 
t Pm ami flu; 
parallax. 


70 


ALBERUNFS INDIA. 


Hindu 
method fer- 
tile compu- 
tation Li l ci.e- 
distunes i>f 
the phnietH. 


Q no tilt io u a 
fi\, i ll liaEa- 
hiinivj. 


whilst V atahamihira reckoned the sun's distance from 
the earth as 2,598,900, and the distance of the fixed stars 
as 32 1.362,683. Thereupon Pulisa replied that the for- 
mer numbers were minutes., the latter yojamis ; whilst 
in another passage he says that the distance of the fixed 
stars from the earth is sixty times larger than the distance 
of the sun. Accordingly he ought to have reckoned 
the distance of the fixed stars as 155*934,000* 

The Hindu method of the computation of the dis- 
tances of the planets which we have above mentioned 
is based on a principle which is unknown to me in the 
present stage of my knowledge, and as long as I have 
no facility in translating the books of the Hindus- The 
principle is this, that the extension of a minute in the 
orbit of the moon is equal to fif fee en yoja m u* The nature 
of this principle is not cleared up by the commentaries 
of Balabhadra, whatsoever trouble he takes. For he 
says: "People have tried to fix by observation the 
time of the moon’s passing through the horizon, i.c, the 
time between the shining of the first part of her body 
and the rising of the whole* or the time between the 
beginning of her setting an d the completion of the 
act of setting. People have found this process to 
last thirty -two minutes of the circumference of the 
sphere*” However, if it is difficult to fix by obser- 
vation the degrees, it Is much more so to fix the 
minutes* 

Further, the Hindus have triad to determine by 
observation the yojanm of the diameter of the moon* 
and have found them to be 4S0. If you divide them 
by the minutes of her body, the quotient is 15 y&jana^ 
as corresponding to one minute* If you multiply it by 
the minutes of the circumference, you get the product 
324,000. This is the measure of the sphere of the 
moon which she traverses in each rotation* f f you 
multiply this number by the cycles of the moon in a 
kalpa or mturyuga t the product is the distance which 


CHA PTER L V. 


71 


tli o moon traverses in either of them. According to 
Brahmagupta. this is'in a&alpa 18,712.069,200,000,000 
y of anas. Brahmagupta calk this number the yojtmm of 
the ecliptic* 

Evidently if yon divide this number by the cycles 
of each planet in a halpa, the quotient represents the 
yojwiiax of one rotation. However, the motion of the 
planets is* according to the Hindus, as we have 
already mentioned r in every distance one and the 
same. Therefore the quotient represents the measure 
of the path of the sphere of the planet in question. 

As further, according to Brahmagupta, the relation of 
the diameter to the circumference is nearly equal to 
that of 12,959 : 40.9S0, you multiply the measure of 
the path of the sphere of the planet by 12,959, and 
divide the product by 81,960. The quotient is the 
radius, or the distance of the planet from the centre of 
the earth. 

We have made this computation for all the planets 
according to the theory of Brahmagupta, and present 
the results to the reader in the following table: — 


The planet*. 


Moon 
Mercury . 

Venus 
Sun .+ 

Mars 

Jupiter . 

Hut urn 

The Fixed Star*/ 
their distance 
[Y0111 the earth's 
centre being 
.sixty times the 
distance t.if the j 
sun Frum the 
same , , j 


This CirciimfisristiEL Jif tins 
spheres -jf tsa uJi cikrtd, 
reekonuil ill yu^nas. 


324,000 

l ,043.210}$ Jl JUS** Si 

1,664, 

4.3.1 '-4971 

S.i 46 .c.t 6 ,ti«s;vlJ, 

127,668,787 nunn 


Their l'Rtli j, wMob 
identical with 
their distance fmm 
tlJfi earth's centre, 
iHscfcmn ed in tfajanas. 


51*329 

■^ 4 i 94 ? 

421,315 

684,869 

1.288,139 

8,123,064 

20,1 S6 h 186 


41.092,140 


259,889,850 


The radii of 

tUtS pliilJ lit r , ’ 

dt their dis- 
fonccs frum 
tins centre 
uf the eiirtb, 
computer!, 
uectH'ding to 
brahniLL. 
gupfciu 


^37 • 


72 


ALBBRUNPS INDIA . 


As Pulisa reckons by calory uoaii, not by Icalpa.% he 
AL-^rijij inur to multiplies the distance of the path of the sphere oi 

tli* theory 1 _ _ _ i f. 1 T 

of Fuiteu, the moon by the lunar cycles of a m£v.rpuga, and gets 

the product 18,71 2.080,864,000 yojanaa^ which he calls 
the yojmias of heaven. It is the distance which the 
moon traverses in each mitirtftiya. 

Pulisa reckons the relation of the diameter to the 
circumference as [250 : 3927, Now, if you multiply 
the circumference of each planetary sphere by 625 and 
divide the product by 3927, the quotient is the distance 
of the planet from the earth's centre. We have made 
the same computation as the last 03 ie according to the 
view of Pn lisa, and present the results in the follow- 
ing table- In computing the radii we have disre- 
garded the fractions smaller than 1, and have reduced 
larger fractions to wholes. Wo have* however, not 
taken the same liberty in the calculation of the circum- 
ferences, but have calculated with the utmost accuracy, 
because they are required in the computations of the 
revolutions. For if you divide the yojmias of hm ren in 
PfLgfs =38- a h:dpa or mhm/um by the civil days of the one or the 
other, you got the quotient 11,858 plus a remainder > 
which is I fc-J according to Urahmagupta, and f-j-jrrH* 
according to FuEsa. This is the distance which the moon 
every day traverses* and as the motion of all planets h 
the same, it is the distance which every planet in a day 
traverses, Ii- stands in the same relation to the t-ojanas 
of the circumference of its sphere as its motion, which 
we want to find* to the circumference, the latter being 
divided into 360 equal parts. If you therefore multiply 
the path common to all the planets by 360 and divide 
the product by the yojanas of the circumference of the 
planet in question, the quotient represents its mean 
daily motion. 


CHAPTER LV\ 


73 


The circumferences of 

The diatfiinMsa of tlis 
planets from the 
usjUi h centre, 
rfiiikCned in yojanaX. 

AJoon 4 324,000’ 

Mercury . 1,043. 21 t& T ,& 

Venus . 2,664,632^7,-7, 

Sim .... 4,331,5001 

Mars ... S,T 46 , 9374 HM 

Jupiter , . , 5 iiJ 75.764 iWr"r 

Saturn . , . 1 27,67 r,7aj»|$M} 

Tho Fixed Stans, the t 
sun’s distance from 

the earth's centre f 2S9, 890,012 

being ^thoLM.btJmJ 

.51,566 

166,033 

690,295 Uw) 

1, 396.624 (!) 
8,176,6*9 (1) 
20,319,542 (f) 

41,417,700 (sic) 


As, now, the minutes of the diameter of the moon 
stand in the same relation to the minutes of her cir- 
cumference, i.e. 21,600, as the number of yqjanas of the 
dial no ter, i.e. 480, to the yqfanas of the circumference 
of the whole sphere, exactly the same method of 
calculation has been applied to the minutes of the 
diameter of the sun, which we have found to be equal 
to 6522 yojanm according to Brahmagupta, and equal 
to 64S0 according to Pulisa< Since Piilisa reckons the 
minutes of the body of the moon as 32, i.e . a power of 
2 f he divides this number in order to get the minutes 
of the bodies of the planets by 2, till he at last gets 
f. Thus he attributes to the body of Venus l of 32 
minutes, i.e. 16; to that of Jupiter -J of 32 minutes, i.e. 
8 ; to that of Mercury .J. of 32 minutes, i.e. 4 ; to that 
of Saturn T \ T of 32 minutes, i.e. 2 ; to that of 'Mars -V of 
32 minutes, i.e. i + 

This precise order seems to have taken his fancy, or 
he would not have overlooked the fact that the diameter 
of Venus is. according to observation, not equal to the 
radius of the moon, nor Mars equal to ^th of Venus, 

The following is the method of the computation of 
the bodies of sun and moon at every time, based on 
their distances from the earth, i.e. the true diameter 


TIkj ijjn- 
mefeira Hjf 

the planets. 


Method f l>L" 
tb& (joippu- 
tiiti ™ of fisc 
bodies t>f 
sun and 
moon ;it fitly 
given time. 


74 


ALBERUNI'S INDIA . 


Quintahtnaa 
from Pulls a, 
Brflhma- 

jni(itii, lUJil 

tEnViliiiadrn, 


of its orbit, which is found in the computations of the 
corrections of sun and moon. AB is the diameter of 
the body of the Rim t f JJ ) is the diameter of Use earth, 
CDH is the cone of the shadow, JIL is its elevation* 
Further, draw OB parallel to DB. Then is AB the 
difference between AB and 01), and the normal line 
CT is the middle distance of the sun, L c. the radius of 
its orbit derived from ilw yojanas of Jwamn (v. p- 72). 
From this the true distance of the sun always differs, 
sometimes being larger, sometimes smaller We draw 
OK, which is of course determined by the parts of the 
sine* It stands in the same relation to CT. this being 
the sinus Mas { = radius), as the yqjanas of OK to the 
■tfojmws of CT. Hereby the measure of the diameter is 
reduced to y of anas. 

The yojanas of AB stand in the same relation to the 
mjanas of TC as the minutes of AB to the minutes 
of TC, the latter being the sinm tot us. Thereby AB 
becomes known and determined by the minutes of the 
sphere, because the sinus tolas is determined by the 
measure of the circumference* For this reason 1 hi lisa 
says: “ Multiply the yojanos of the radius of the sphere 
of the sun or the moon by the true distance, and 
divide the product by the sinus tolas. By the quotient 
you get for the sun, divide 22,278.240, and by the 
quotient you get for the moon, divide 1,650,240. The 
quotient then represents the minutes of the diameter of 
the body of either sun or moon,” 

The last-mentioned two numbers are products of the 
multiplication of the yojanas of the diameters oi' sun 
and moon by 3438, which is the number of the minutes 
of the sinus tolas. 

Likewise Brahmagupta says : tf Multiply the yojanm 
of sun or moon by 3416, i.c, the minutes of the slum 
lotus y and divide the product by the yojanm of the 
radius of the sphere of sun or moon/* But the latter 
rule of division is not correct, because, according to it, 


CHAPTER LV. 


75 


the measure of the body would not vary (v. p. 74). 
Therefore the com men tat or Balabhadra holds the same 
Opinion as Bulba,, viz. that the divisor in this division 
should be the true distance reduced (to the measure 

of gojemas). 

Brahmagupta gives the following rule for the com- 
putation of the diameter o£ the shadow, which in our 
mnorm is called the measure of ike sphere of the dragons 
head and tail : lt Subtract the yojtinas of the diameter 
of the earth, i.t\ 1581, from the yqjanas of the diameter 
of the sun, he. 65 22. There remains 4941, which is 
kept in memory to be used as divisor. It is represented 
in the figure, by A R. Further multiply the diameter 
of the earth, which is the double sinus totus, by the 
yajanas of the true distance of the sun, which is found 
by the correction of tlie sun. Divide the product by 
the divisor kept in memory. The quotient is the true 
distance of the shadow’s end, 

“Evidently the two tri angles A EC and GDH are 
similar to each other. However, the normal line CT 
does not vary in size, whilst in consequence of the 
true distance the appear anee of AN varies, though its 
size is constantly the same, Now let this distance be 
0 k\ Draw' the linos AJ and BY parallel to each other, 
and JKV parallel to AB, Then the latter is equal to 
the divisor kept in memory. 

* Draw the line J CM, Then M is the head of the cone 
of the shadow for that time. The relation of JV , the 
divisor kept iu memory, to KC, the true distance, is 
the same as that of CD, the diameter of the earth, to 
MTi f which he (Brahmagupta) calls a true distance (of 
the shadow’s end), and it is determined by the minutes 
of the dm (the earth’s radius being the sinus lotus). 
For KC- ” 

Now, however, I suspect that in the following some- 
tiling has fallen out in the manuscript, for the author 
continues: “Then multiply it (he. the quotient of CK, 


BrAbtQfr 
guptn'e 
naefcliod for 
the cfflnpu- 
tutton ofthe 
dtnmeterof 

the elifidow. 




Liteuuii. iu 
the matin- 
stjrix>L uopy 
of BrnliUui- 
guptn. 


7(3 


4LBERVNFS INDIA. 


CtitlflUms 
on Brahma- 

tflipttt'S 

method. 


by the divisor kept in memory) by the diameter of the 
earth. The product is the distance between the earth's 
centre and the end of the shadow. Subtract there- 
from the true distance of the moon and multiply the 
remainder by the diameter of the earth. Divide the 
product by the true distance of the shadow’s end. 
The quotient is the diameter of the shadow in the 
sphere of the moon. Further, we suppose the true 
distance of the moon to be LS ; and FN is a part of the 
lunar sphere, the radius of which is LS. Since we 
have found LM as determined by the minutes of the 
sim.it stands in the same relation to CD, this being 
the double sw lotus } as MS* measured in minutes of 
the sine, to XZ, measured in minutes of the sine/ 5 

Here I suppose Brahmagupta wished to reduce CM, 
the true distance of the shadow's end, to yojanits, 
which is done by multiplying ifc by the yojanas of the 
diameter of the earth, and by dividing the product by 
the double sinus totm. The mentioning of this division 
has fallen out in the manuscript ; for without it the 
multiplication of the corrected distance of the shadow's 
end by the diameter of the earth is perfectly superfluous, 
and in no way required by the computation. 

Further : r * If the number of yojanas of LM is known, 
LS, which is the true distance, must also be reduced to 
yojanas , for the purpose that MS should be determined 
by the same measure. The measure of the diameter of 
te shadow which is thus found represents yojanas 

Further f Brahmagupta says : [i Then multiply the 
shadow which has been found by the mwx tvtw, and 
divide the product by the true distance of the moon. 
The quotient represents the minutes of the shadow T 
which we wanted to fmdT 

However, if the shadow which he has found were 
determined by yqjanas, he ought to have multiplied it 
by the double mms taim t and to have divided the pro- 
duct by the yojanas of the diameter of the earth, in 


CHAPTER LV. 


11 


order to find the minutes of the shadow. But as he has 
[lot done so, this shows that, in his computation, he 
limited himself to determining the true diameter in 
minutes, without reducing it to yojanas. 

The author uses the true (spJmta) diameter without 
its having been reduced to yojavm. Thus lie finds that 
the shadow in the circle, the radius of which is LS, is 
the true diameter, and this is required for the compu- 
tation of the circle, the radius of which is the sinus 
loins* The relation of ZX, which he has already found, 
to SL, the true distance, is the same as the relation of 
ZX in the measure which is sought to SL, this being 
the ain f us loins. On the basis of this equation the 
reduction (to yojmias) must be made. 

I n anott i or passage 13 rah n i ag u pi a say s ; : ' Th e d ia- 
meter of the earth is 1581, the diameter of the moon 
480, the diameter of the sun 6522, the diameter of the 
shadow x 5 8 1 h Subtract the ifojanas of the earth from 
the yojanas of the sun, there remains 4941. Multiply 
this remainder by the 'tjojanias of the true distance of 
the moon, and divide the product by the yojanax of the 
true distance of the sun. Subtract Hie quotient you 
get from r 5 S 1 . and the remainder is the measure of the 
shadow in the sphere of the moon. Multiply it by 
3416, and divide the product by th e yojmias of the rmdtfk 
rad i us of ths s] ih c rc of lit e n 1 00%. The quoti en t represe lit s 
the minutes of the diameter of the shadow. 

Ei Evidently if the yojanas of the diameter of the earth 
are subtracted from the mjonos of the diameter of Hie 
sun, the remainder is Ait, i.e< J V. Draw the line YCb 
and let fall the normal line KC on 0 . Then the relation 
of the surplus JY to KO, the true distance of the sun, is 
the same as the relation of ZF to OC, the true distance 
of Hie moon. It is indifferent whether these two wzan 
diameters are. reduced (to yojwnas) or not, for ZF is, in this 
case, found as determined by the measure of yojanas. 

“Draw XN as equal to OR Then ON is necessarily 


Another 
method of 
Umlsma- 
gii|jta J a fi>v 
•eo m 1 1 ,! tt-i ng: 
Tli* ahadnw. 


78 


ALBERUNl’S INDIA. 


equal to the diameter of OH. and its sought- for part is 
/X. Tt.ie number which is thus found must be sub- 
tracted from the diameter of the earth, and the remainder 
will be ZX ” 

rim itntbor For snch mistakes as occur in this computation the 
\ its ^lijtupt author, iirahmagupta, is not to beheld responsible, but 

■H'tutS III Jjie , in 

■n.u-iirpipt we rather suspect that the fault lies with the rrianu- 
E«pta r ,l script- We, however, cannot go beyond the text we 
r. : i£c s.bT. have at our disposal , as we do not know how it may be 

in a correct copy. 



The measure of the shadow adopted by Brahma- 
gupta, from which he orders the reader to subtract, 
cannot Ise a mean one, for a mean measure stands in the 
midst, between too little and too much. Further, we 
cannot imagine that this measure should be the greatest, 
of tli e m easnres of the eh adow, incln ding the plus (?) ; for 
ZF, which is the minus , is the base of a triangle, of 
which the one side, FC. cuts SL in the direction of the 
sun, not in the direction of the end of the shadow. 
Therefore ZF has nothing whatsoever to do with the 
shadow (conjectural rendering). 


CHAPTER LV. 


79 


Lastly, there is the possibility that the wfaius belongs 
to tiie diameter of the moon. In that case the relation 
of ZN, which has been defer mined in yojanas, to SL, 
the //ojanm of the true distance of the moon, is the 
same as the relation of ZX reckoned in minutes to SL, 
this being the shim totm (conjectural rendering). 

By this method is found what Brahmagupta wants to 
find, quite correctly, without the division by the mean 
radius of the sphere of the moon, which is derived from 
the iff /Jana# of the sphere of heaven (v. p, 72). {For the 
lust three passages vide Notes.) 

The methods of the computation of the diameters of 
sun and moon, as given by the Hindu earnnes, such as 
the Kha ndfrtch d^j/fd rf and luiruna-sd-m, are the same as 
are found in the canon of AlkhwSriamL Also the com- 
putation of the diameter of the shadow in the Kkanda- 
Lh&dyahi, is similar to that one given by Alkhwarizmt, 
whilst. the Kimmamra has the following method : — 
u Multiply the hhn'kti of the moon by 4 and the hhvJdi 
of the sim by 13. Divide the difference between the 
two products by 30, and the quotient is the diameter of 
the shadow.” 

The Km'fnjffTiJw&rt gives the following method for the 
computation of the diameter of the sun : — E£ Divide the 
hhftJdi of the sun by 2, and write down the half in two 
different places. In the one place divide it by j o, and 
add the quotient to the number in the second place. 
The sum is the number of minutes of the diameter of 
the sum.” 

In the computation of the diameter of the moon, he 
first takes the bhuJdi of the moon, adds thereto ^tl ' of 
it, and divides the number by 25. The quotient is the 
number of the minutes of the moon's diameter. 

In the computation of the diameter of the shadow, 
he multiplies the blutkti of the sun by 3, and from the 
product lie subtracts ^th of it. The remainder he sub- 
tracts from the bkvLli of the moon, and the double of 


The CMlipu- 

tfttfon of the 

?] Liv?)ftlcrs 
of SUJl Mill 
moftnac. 
cording 
to other 
0011 rces. 


Iliam utar ol 
the tlm and 
of the fllia- 
dow Record, 
iug to the 

t(tka. 


8o 


A LEER UN PS INDIA . 


F;iga 24-3. 


the- remainder he divides by 15. The quotient is the 
number of t.he minutes of the dragon's head and 
tail 

if we Avon Id indulge- in further quotations from the 
amoms of the Hindus, we should entirely get away from 
the subject of the present book. Therefore we restrict, 
ourselves to quote from them only subjects more or less 
connected with the special subject of this book, which 
either arc noteworthy for their strangeness, or which 
are unknown among our people (the Muslims) and in 
our (the Muslim) countries. 


( Si > 


CHAPTER LVX 

ON THE STATIONS OF THE MOON. 

The Hindus use tiie lunar stations exactly in the same 
way as the zodiacal signs. As the ecliptic is, by the 
zodiacal signs, divided Into twelve equal parts, so* by 
the lunar stations, it is divided into twenty-seven equal 
part s r Each stati on occu pies r 3 J degree e, or 8 00 m in 11 te s 
of the ecliptic* The planets enter into them, and leave 
them again, and wander to and fro through their nor- 
thern and southern latitudes* The astrologers attribute 
to each station a special nature, the quality of foreboding 
events, and other particular characteristic traits, in the 
same way as they attribute them to the zodiacal signs. 

The number 27 rests on the fact that the moon passes 
through the wit ole ecliptic in 2 jl days, in which num- 
ber the fraction of j may be disregarded. In a similar 
way. the Arabs determine their lunar stations as begin- 
ning with the moon’s first becoming visible in the west 
till her ceasing to be visible in the east. Herein they 
use the following method : — 

Add to the circumference the amount of the revolu- 
tion of the sun in a lunar mouth. Subtract from the 
sum the march of the moon for the two days called 
fdmiJt.dk (ir. the 28th and 29th days of a lunation). 
Divide the remainder by the march of the moon for one 
day* The quotient Is zj and a little more than winch 
fraction must be counted as a whole day. 

However, the Arabs are illiterate people, who can 
neither write nor reckon. They only rely upon numbers 
and eyesight. They have no other medium of research 
than eyesight, and arc not able to determine the lunar 
stations without the fixed stars in them. If the Hindus 
vol. 11 F 


On the 
tvfcuty- 
SftVCIL Ixm&T 
stations. 


Lttmr ntu- 
tl oh & of the 
Arabs. 


82 


A LEBRUN VS INDIA , 


Whether t.lie 
]TLij(]ilk 
1 i^itci twenty- 
aft ven o r 
tweiity- 
@ight lunar 
fit: it ion?. 


A Vad Eft tva- 
dLllijM L'rotii 
Brfllima- 

RUptA. 


want to describe the single stations, they agree with 
t.lie Arabs regarding certain stars, whilst regarding 
others they differ from them. On the whole, the Arabs 
keep near to the moon's path, and nse f in describing the 
stations, only those fixed stars with which the moon 
either stands in conjunction at certain times, or through 
tlio immediate neighbourhood of which she passes. 

The Hindus do not strictly follow the same line, but. 
also take into account the various positions of one star 
with reference to the other, &ff„ one star's standing in 
opposition or in the ssenith of another. Besides., they 
reckon also the Falling Eagle among the stations, so as 
to get 28. 

It is this which has led our astronomers and the 
authors of *an wd hooks astray ; for they say that, the 
Hindus have twenty-eight lunar stations, but that, they 
leave out one which is always covered by the rays of the 
sum Perhaps they may have heard that the Hindus call 
that station in which the moon is, the lyv/m/ing mu ; 
that station winch it has just Left, ike left one rfUr the 
embrace ; and that station in which she will enter next. 
t hi mn ofcing one. Some of o u r Muslim an th or s b ave m ai n - 
tained that the Hindus leave out. the station Al-mb&ttd r 
and account for it by declaring that the moon's path is 
burning in the end of Libra and the beginning of Scorpio. 

All this is derived from one and the same source, vi&i. 
their opinion that, the Hindus have twenty-eight stations, 
and that under certain circumstances they drop one* 
Win 1 st. just the veiy opposite is the case; they have 
tw euty-sev en stat i on s , and i m der certai 1 1 ci rou m a t a rices 
add one. 

Brahmagupta says that in the book of the Ved**- there 
is a tradition, derived from the inhabitants of Mount 
Meru, to this effect, that, they sec two suns, two moons, 
and fifty-four lunar stations, and that they have double 
the amount of days of ours* Then be tries to refute this 
theory by the argument, that we do not see the fish (me) 
of the pole revolve twice in a day, but only once* I for 


CHAPTER LVL S3 

my part have no means of arraying this erroneous sen- 
tence in a reasonable shape. 

The proper method for the computation of the place 
of a star or of a certain degree of a lunar station is this : — 
Take its distance from o° Aries in minutes, and divide 
them by 800. The quotient represents whole stations 
preceding that station in which the star in question stands. 
Then remains to be found the particular place within 
the station in question. Now, either star or degree is 
simply determined according to the 800 parts of the 
station, and reduced by a common denominator, or the 
degrees are reduced to minutes, or they are multiplied 
by 60 and the product is divided by 800, in which case 
the quotient represents that part of the station which 
the moon has in that moment already traversed, if the 
station is reckoned as T ^ 1 

These methods of computation suit as well the moon 
as the planets and other stars. The following, however, 
applies exclusively to the moon : — The product of the 
multiplication of the remainder (Le. the portion of the 
incomplete Umar station) by 60 is divided by the Hot Hi 
of the moon. The quotient shows how much of the 
lunar ind^Jirdra day has elapsed. 

The Hindus are very little informed regarding the 
fixed stars. I never came across any one of them who 
knew the single stars of the lunar stations from eye- 
sight. and was able to point them out to me with his 
fingers, I have taken the greatest pains to investigate 
this subject, and to settle most of it by all sorts of com- 
parisons, and have recorded the results of my research 
in a treatise on ike ddenn/tnatim of ike lunar -stations. 
Of their theories on this subject I si mil mention as 
much as I think suitable in the present, context But 
before that I shall give the positions of the stations in 
longitude and latitude and their numbers, according to 
the canon Kh an d a kMdyoka , facilitating the study of 
the subject by comprehending all details in the follow- 
ing table 


Method for 

I ho phi oo of 
any git'aiL 
decree of 
a lumtr 
E-tution . 


Table of the 
Umar Rj;t- 

I ioiifc htkfiu 
from the 
fCbmida- 
OVhiyn'Lic. 


Till; number of the 


4 * 

JD , 

“ j : 

‘H - 

?a 

A’ 2 
1 " 
s B 

a a 

P 

Thu manias Of thu 
fmi&r stationa. 

i-m 

x 

O 

S 3 

|i 

H 

V 

S 

LongLfcuUu. 

□3 

.1 

ra 

a 

.3 

"3 

1 

□j 

a 

! 

i 

A^vini 

j 

O 

s 

2 

Bhaiofll 

3 

0 

20 

3 

Krit-Dikii 

6 

I 

7 

4 

Kobim 

5 

I 

19 

5 

MrTgfc&rsha 

3 

3 

3 

6 

ArdrA . 

i 

2 

7 

7 

Pun&rr&su . 

2 

3 

3 

S 

Pushy a 

[ 

3 

16 

9 

A ale s ha 

6 

3 

iS 

IO 

Maghfi 

6 

4 

9 

ii 

EVirvapbiUguni h 

2 

4 

27 

12 

UttarapEutlguti: . 

2 1 

5 

5 


MiinlU-j. 


H mutes. 


I.atitll(te, 



10 

1 2 
5 

5 

5 

11 


o 

o 

Q 

0 

Q 

O 


6 o 


□ 


o 


6 o 


o 


12 

13 


o 

o 

0 



Northern 

Northern 

Northern 

Southern j 

Southern 
Southern j 

Northern 
Without, any J 

latitude 1 

Southern 

Without an t 
latitude 
Northern 

Northern 


Notes on the utitra of flitch tin.- 
lunar station a eouaifiL 


Aishf&at&u, 

A ] b ut ai n r 

Altb UTEL7V5U 

Alriabar&n. together with the 
stars of the head of Taurus, 

Alhak'a, 

Unknown. Most likely identi- 
cal with Can is Minor. 

AldhiriV, 

Aina thru, 

Unknown. Most likely identi- 
cal with two stars of Cancer 
and four stars oul side: of it-. 

AljaOhSj together with two 
other stats- 

Alzubrn. 

A 1 surf a, together with the third 
star ol Aldafi.ra„ 


A t. BE HUNTS INDIA. 


*3 

HAsta . 

5 

5 

2D 

D 

II 

14 

Citift . 

1 

6 

3 

□ 

2 

T 5 

Svatt . 

1 

6 

iq 

0 

37 

16 


2 

7 

2 

5 

1 

■7 

AnurftdhSi T 

4 

7 

14 

5 

3 

iS 

JycahtM , 

3 

7 

19 

5 

4 

■ 9 

Mil la . 

2 

S 

1 

0 

9 

20 

FfirvAshadha 

4 

S 

14 

0 

5 

21 

Uttar&gh&dhA 

4 

s 

2D 

0 

5 

23 } 

0 \ 

Abhijit 

3 

8 

35 

0 

62 

2'3 j 
22 ( 

Sr a van a 

3 

9 

s 

0 

30 


DhanishtM, 

5 

9 

20 

□ 

3^ 

i 

24 * 

Satabhishaj 

1 

10 

30 

0 

0 

26 j 
\ 

Vn rvabhMra pad a- 

2 

ID 

24 

D 

24 

27 \ 
26 ( 

U ttaiabbadrapadil 

2 

11 

6 

0 

26 

1 m 

Revatl 

t 

Q 

O 

O 

0 

27 1 







0 

Southern 

Consists of t he stars of the Crow. 

0 

Southern 

A ] si j Milk A Fa 1 * ah 

0 

Northern 

Alsimdk AljAtnih. 

3° 

Southern 

Unknown,, 

0 

Southern 

\ The Crown > together with an 
t other star. 

0 

Southern 

\ The heart of Scorpio, together 
f with lEie pericardium. 

3° 

Southern 

Ala hauls. 

20 

Southern 

Aina fijn AlwArid. 

O 

Southern 

AlnaMm Als&dir, 

O 

Northern 

A] lists r A] w.ftki'. 

O 

N Orthern 

Alnasr Alt&’ir. 

O 

Northern 

\ Unknown* Moat likely it is 
t the Dolphin. 

l Unknown. Moat likely iden- 

18 

Southern 

■f tied with the upper part of 

1 the hip- joint of Aquarius, 

O 

Northern 

Unknown, 

O 

Northern 

j, Most likely identical with tine 
) stars of A.] 1 its Al’aitatn. 



^Unknown, Most likely identi- 

A 

J Without any 

cal with some of the stars of 

u 

j latitude 

1 the Cotton Thread between 
[ the Two Flabea. 


CHAPTER LVI. 


86 


ALBERUNPS INDIA * 


On the pni- 

CUSKitfLL i >t 

the Uljut- 
n«jccs ; qtu> 
tutiiju trotfi 
V L^ham i- 
liirn, uh:ip. 
tv. 7. 


The author 
urltieLsfcs 
V Ar;\1l jlYi 1 1- 
htol'S StutL-C- 
ment. 


Thu notion a of the Hindus regarding the stars are 
not free from confusion. They are only little skilled in 
practical observation ami calculation, and have no under- 
standing of the motions of the fixed stars. 80 YanLha- 
mihira says in his book Sfirfokild ; " In six stations, 
beginning with Revati and ending with Mrigasiras, ob- 
servation precedes calculation, so that, the moon enters 
each one of them earlier according to eyesight than 
according to calculation. 

“ In twelve stations, beginning with Ardra. and ending 
with Anurhdba, the precession is equal to half a station, 
so that the moon is in the vi uld of a station according 
to observation, whilst she Is in its first part according 
to calculation, 

ic In the nine stations, beginning with Jyeshthtl and 
ending with UttarabMdrapadft, observation falls back 
behind calculation, so that the moon enters each of 
them according to observation, when, according to 
calculation, she leaves it in order to enter the fol- 
lowing/ 1 

My remark relating to the confused notions of the 
Hindus regarding the stars is confirmed, though this is 
perhaps not apparent to the Hindus themselves, e.g. by 
tl 10 note of Varfilianjihira regarding A l$hstr*dm~ Asvini, 
one of the first -mentioned six stations ; for he says that 
in it observation precedes calculation „ Now the two stars 
of Asvini stand, in our time, in two- thirds of Aries (i.v. 
between iG'^-so"' 1 Aries), and the time of VarShamihira 
precedes our time by about 526 years. Therefore by 
whatever theory you may compute the motion of the 
fixed stars (or precession of the equinoxes), the Asvini 
did, in his time, certainly not stand in less than one- 
third of Aries (he, they had not come in the precession 
of the equinoxes farther than to 1 -io° Aries), 

Supposing that, in his time, Asvini really stood in 
this part of Aries or near it. as is mentioned in the 
Kka n dakhMyalca^ which gives the computation of sun 


CHAPTER LV1. 


$7 


and moon in a perfectly correct form, we must state 
that at that time there was not yet known what is now 
known, viz, the retrograde motion of the star by the 
distance of eight degrees. How, therefore, coo id, in 
his time, observation precede calculation, since the 
moon, when standing in conjunction with, the two stars, 
had already traversed nearly two-thirds of the first sta- 
tion 1 According to the- same analogy, also, the other 
statements of Varahamlhira may be examined. 

The stations occupy a smaller or larger space elc- iSmeiist^ 
cording to their figures, their constellations, not pi(j& the 
they themselves, for all stations occupy the same space mL 1 
on the ecliptic. This fact does not seem to be known u " ■' 11 ' 
to the Hindus, although we have already related similar 
notions of theirs regarding the Great Bear, l : or Brah- 
magupta says in the TJt tar a -hhandaJdi ddijiiLu-, i.e. the 
emendation of the Kkanda-kh 4 dt/aka : — 

“The measure of some stations exceeds the measure Quotation 

■ t t iif frflm -Wrah- 

oi the mean daily motion oi the moon by one half, 
Accordingly their measure is ig 45 * yi ff There 

are six stations, viz. Bohini, Punarvasu, Uttaraphal- 
gu n h Vi &ii kh a, U t ta r ilshfnl !i tl, U tt am! 3 hhdra padft , Th esc 
together occupy the space of 1 18° 35' 13" 48"'. Fur- 
ther six stations are short ones, each of them occupying 
less than the mean daily motion of the moon by one 
half. Accordingly their measure is 6' 35' E 2 & f/ \ 

Those are Bharani, ArdrS, AslesM, Svati, JyeshtM., 
Satabhishaj. They together occupy the space of 39° 3 r 
44" 36"'. Of the remaining fifteen stations, each occu- 
pies as much as the mean daily motion. Accordingly 
it occupies the space of 13° io y 34" 52'", They to- 
gether occupy the space of 197° 38' 43^. These three 
groups of stations together occupy the space of 3 5 5 = 

45 ' 41 '* 24'", the remainder of the complete circle 4 0 
14' 18" 36'", and this is the space of Ahhijit, ie. the 
Falling Eagle, which is left out, I have tried to make 
the investigation of this subject acceptable to the 


ALBERUNl'S INDIA. 


Quotation 
fr-ojii VariL- 
liflTfllhira, 
An fiih,;/// 
ch. fe i j. i-j. 


PftgC 246. 


The author 
on the pru- 
e&trtkm ■ nt 
the -ecii ti- 
HftxesR. 


student in my above-mentioned, special treatise on the 
lunar stations (v. p* 83)- 

The scantiness of the knowledge of the Hindus re- 
garding the motion of the fixed stars is sufficiently 
illustrated by the following passage from the Sarhkitd 
of Varftkamilrira : — " It has been mentioned in the books 
of the ancients that the summer solstice took place in 
the midst of AileshS,, and the winter solstice in Dlia- 
nisbthfn And this is correct for that time* Nowadays 
the summer solstice takes place in the beginning of 
Cancer, and. the winter solstice in the beginning of Cap- 
1 1 i cor 1 jus. I f an v 0 n e dou bts thi s , an d in ai n tains th at i t 
is as tbe ancients have said and not as we say, let him 
go out to some level country when he thinks that the 
summer solstice is near. Let him there draw a circle, 
and place in its centre some body which stands perpen- 
dicular on the plain. Let him mark tbe end of its 
shadow by some sign, and continue (he line till it 
reaches the circumference of tbe circle either in east or 
west. Let him repeat the same at the same moment 
of the following day, and make the same observation. 
When ho then finds that the end of the shadow deviates 
from the first sign towards the south , he must know 
that the sun lias moved towards the north and has not 
yet reached its solstice. Hut if he finds that the end 
of the shadow deviates towards the north, he knows 
that tlit:. sun has already commenced to move south- 
ward and has already passed its solstice. If a man 
continues this kind of observations, and thereby finds 
the day of the solstice, he will find that our words are 
true.” 

This passage shows that VamhamiMra had no know- 
ledge of tbe motion of the fixed stars towards the east. 
He considers them, in agreement with the name, as 
fixed, immovable stars, and represents the solstice as 
moving towards th e west. In consequence of this fancy, 
lie has, in the matter of the Umar stations, confounded 


CHAPTER LVL 


S 9 

two things, between which we shall now properly dis- 
tinguish, in order to remove doubt and to give the 
matter in a critically emended form. 

In the order of the zodiacal signs we begin with that 
twelfth part of t-lie ecliptic which lies north of the point 
of intersection of the equator and the ecliptic according 
to the second motion, i.e. the precession of the equinoxes. 
In that case, the summer solstice always occurs at the 
beginning of the fourth sign, the winter solstice at the 
beginning of the tenth sign. 

In the order of the lunar stations we begin with that 
twenty-seventh part of the ecliptic which belongs to 
the first of the first zodiacal sign. In that case the 
summer solstice falls always on three-fourths of the 
seventh station (i.e. on 600 ? of the station), and the 
winter solstice on one-fourth of the twenty-first station 
(i.e. on 200' of the station). This order of things will 
remain the same as long as the world lasts. 

If, now, the lunar stations are marked by certain 
constellations, and are called by names peculiar to these 
constellations, the stations wander round together with 
the constellations. The stars of the zodiacal signs and 
of the stations have, in bygone times, occupied earlier 
(i.e. more western) parts of the ecliptic. From them 
they have wandered into those which they occupy at 
present, and in future they will wander into other still 
more eastern parts of the ecliptic, so that in the course 
of time they will wander through the whole ecliptic. 

According to the Hindus, the stars of the station 
Afleshfl stand in iS° of Cancer. Therefore, according 
to the rate of the precession of the equinoxes adopted 
by the ancient astronomers, they stood 1800 years before 
our time in the of the fourth sign, whilst the con- 
stellation of Cancer stood in the third sign, in which 
there was also the solstice. The solstice has kept, its 
place, but the constellations have migrated, just the very 
opposite of what Varahamihira lias fancied. 


( 90 ) 


How Dr ii 
stav muat be 
iii6t4inbIruED 
the Run in 
order to 
Liuoomti 
visible. 


Pug* 247. 


^uQtatum 
Com V 5 J; l^ : U-- 
nimdm. 


CHAPTER LYIL 

ON THE IIEJJACAL RISINGS OF THE STAR?), AND ON THE 
CEREMONIES AND KITES WHICH THE HINDUS PRAC- 
TISE AT SUCH A MOMENT. 

The Hind a method for the computation of the heliacal 
risings of the stars and the young moon is, as wo think, 
the same as is explained in the camnes called SindkimL 
They call the degt-ees of a star's distance from the 
sun which are thought necessary for its heliacal rising 
k&l&msaka-. They are, according to the author of the 
GJmrrat-afaydt, the following;- — 1 3 for Suhail, Alya- 
m fi niya, A 1 w il k: i* , A T a y y 0 k , A l situ ah an , K al b-afakrab ; 
20° for Albutairij Alhalda, Ainatbra, A ales ha, Sata- 
bhishaj, Herat i ; 14 ' for the others. 

Evidently the stars have, in this respect* been divided 
into three groups, the first of which seems to comprise 
the stars reckoned by the Greeks as stars of the first 
and second magnitude, the second the stars of the third 
and fourth magnitude, and the third the stars of the 
fifth and sixth magnitude. 

Rrahmagupta ought to have given this classification 
in his emendation of the Kh^ndahhddf/aku, but he has 
not done so. He expresses himself in general phrases, 
and simply mentions 14° distance from the sun as 
necessary for the heliacal risings of all lunar stations. 

Vi] ay an undin says : " Some stare are not covered by 
the rays nor impaired in their shining by the sun, via. 
Alayyuk, Akimuk* Alramih* the two Eagles, Dhauish- 
Lha, and U ttarabh Id rapadft , because they have so much 


CHAPTER LVU. 91 

northern latitude, and because also the country (of 
the observer) has so much latitude. For in the more 
northern regions they are seen both at the beginning 
and end of one and the same night, and never dis- 
ap pear," 

They have particular methods for the computation 
of the heliacal rising of Agastya, i.e. SnhaO or Canopus. 
They observe it first when the sum enters the station 
Hast a, and they lose it out of sight when he enters the 
station Echini, Pufisa says : c ' Take double the apsis of 
the sun. If it is equalled by the corrected place of the 
sun, this is the time of the heliacal setting of Agastya/' 

The apsis of the sun is, according to Pnlisa, 2§ zodiacal 
signs. The double of it falls in ro of Spica, which is 
the beginning of the station Hasta. Half the apsis 
falls on io D of Taurus „ which is the beginning of the 
station Roh i ti i. 

Brahmagupta maintains the following in the emen- 
dation of the KhatidahhddyaJza :■ — 

“The position of Suhail is 27"' Orion, its southern 
latitude 7 1 parts. The degrees of its distance from the 
sou necessary for its heliacal rising are 12 . 

“ The position of AlrigavyMha, i,e. Sirius Yeroenicus, 
is 26° Orion, its southern latitude 40 parts* The de- 
grees of its distance from the sun necessary for its 
heliacal rising are 13, If you want to find the time 
of their risings, imagine the sun to be in the place of 
the star. That amount of the day which lias already 
elapsed is the number of degrees of its distance from 
the sun necessary for its heliacal rising. Fix the 
asoendms on this particular place* When, then, the 
sun reaches the degree of this ascmden& t the star first 
becomes visible, 

‘’In order to find the time of the heliacal setting of 
a star,, add to the degree of the star six complete zodiacal 
signs. Subtract from the sum the degrees of its dis- 
tance from the sun necessary for its heliacal rising, and 


On the 
IjeliiicnJ 
nsin£ of 
Gtttuspuif, 


Quotation 
from Ifvali. 
rtiagTLitjti. 


93 


ALBERUNFS INDIA. 


On tha 
ceremonies 
prac-bisei I ;it 
tlio heliacal 
rising of cer- 
tain start. 


Quotation 
hom VaxiV 
IiaiQiEiirt'j:- 
ah. 

xlL profaee, 
ami vv. 
t-tS, on 
Can epufr* 
Agaatya and 
tkia sacrifice 
to him. 


F^fe s?4S. 


fix the ascendens on the remainder* When, then, the 
eun enters the degree of the ascendent, that is the time 
of its Betting.” 

The booh SamMtd mentions certain sacrifices and 
ceremonies which are practised at the heliacal risings 
of various stars. We shall now record them, translat- 
ing also that which is rather chaff than wheat, since we 
have made it obligatory on ourselves to give the quota- 
tions from the boohs of the Hindus complete and exactly 
as they are. 

Vamhamihira says : “ When in the beginning the sun 
had risen, and in his revolution had come to stand in the 
zenith of the towering mountain Vindhya, the latter 
would not recognise his exalted, position, arid, actuated 
by haughtiness, jnoved towards him to hinder his 
march and to prevent his chariot from passing above 
it* The Vindhya rose even to the neighbourhood 
of Paradise and the dwellings of the Vidyfid haras, the 
spiritual beings, Now the latter hastened to it because 
it was pleasant and its gardens and meadows were 
lovely, and dwelt there in joy \ their wives going to 
and fro, and their children playing with each other* 
When the wind blew against the white garments of 
their daughters, they hew like waving banners* 

In its ravines the wild animals and the lions ap- 
pear as dark black, in consequence of the multitude 
of the animals called hhmmam , which cling to them, 
liking the dirt of their bodies when they rub each other 
with the soiled claws. When they attack the rutting 
elephants, the latter become raving. The monkeys and 
bears are seen climbing up to the horns of Vindhya 
and to its lofty peaks ^ as if by instinct, they took the 
direction towards heaven. The anchorites are seen at 
its water-places, satisfied with nourishing them selves 
by Its fruits* The further glorious things of the Yin- 
dhya are innumerable. 

When, now, Agastya, the sou of Varuiia j jLe * Suhail, 


CHAPTER LVIL 


93 


the son of the water), had observed all these proceed- 
ings of the Vindhya, he offered to bo his companion in 
his aspirations, and asked him to remain in his place 
until he (Agastya) should return and should have freed 
him (Vindhya) from the darkness -which was on him, 

V. i.— Then Agaetya turned towards the ocean, de- 
vouring its water, so that it disappeared. There appeared 
the lower parts of the mountain Vindhya, whilst the 
ma&am and the water animals were clinging to it. 
They scratched the mountain till they pierced it and dug 
mines in It, in which there remained gems and pearls. 

V\ 2, — The ocean became adorned by them, further 
by trees which grew up, though it (the water) was 
feeble, and by serpents rushing to and fro in windings 
on its surface. 

V. 3, — The mountain has, in exchange for the wrong 
done to it by Suhail, received the ornament which it 
has acquired, whence the angels got tiaras and crowns 
made for themselves, 

V, 4. — Likewise the ocean lias, in exchange for the 
sinking down of its water into the depth, received the 
sparkling of the fishes when they move about in it, the 
appearance of jewels at its bottom, and the rushing to 
and fro of the serpents and snakes in the remainder of 
its water. When the fishes rise over it, and the conch- 
shells and pearl-oysters, yon would take the ocean for 
ponds, the surface of their water being covered with the 
white lotus in the season of iarad and the season of 
autumn. 

V* 5, — You could scarcely distinguish between this 
water and heaven, because the ocean is adorned with 
jewels as the heaven is adorned with stars ; with many- 
headed serpents, resembling threads of rays which come 
from the sun ; with crystal in it, resembling the body 
of the moon, and with a white mist, above which rise 
the clouds of heaven „ 

Y. 6. — How should I not praise him who did this 


94 


ALBBRUNPS INDIA. 


great deed, who pointed out to the angels the beauty of 
the crowns, and "made the ocean and the mountain 
Yindhya a treasure-house for thorn ! 

V. *j . — That is Suhail, by whom the water becomes 
clean from earthly defilement, with which the purity of 
the heart of the pious man is commingled, clean, I say 
from that which overpowers him in the intercourse 
with the wicked. 

Y. Sk- — W henever Agastya rises and the water in- 
creases in the rivers and valleys during his time, you 
see the rivers offering to the moon all that is on the 
surface of their water, the various kinds of white and 
red lotus and the papyrus \ all that swims in them, the 
ducks and the geese (pelicans ?), as a sacrifice unto him, 
even as a young girl offers roses and presents when she 
enters them (the rivers). 

V. g . — We compare the standing of the pairs of red 
geese on the two shores, and the swimming to and fro 
of the white ducks in the midst while they sing, to the 
two lips of a beautiful woman, showing her teeth when 
she laughs for joy. 

V. io.—Nay, we compare the black lotus, standing 
between white lotus, and the dashing of the bees against 
it from desire of the fragrancy of its smell, with the 
black of her pupil within the white of the ring, moving 
coquettish! y and amorously, being surrounded by the 
hair of the eyebrows. 

V. II- — When you then see the ponds, when the light 
of the moon has risen over them, when the moon illu- 
minates their dim waters, and when the white lotus 
opens which was shut over the bees, yon would think 
them the face of a beautiful woman, who looks with a 
black eye from a white eyeball. 

V. 1 2 . — When a stream of the torrents of Varshakala 
has down to them with serpents, poison, and the impu- 
rities, the rising of Sukail above them cleans them from 
defilement and saves them from injury. 


CHAPTER f. VI f* 


95 

V. [3, — As one moment’s thinking of Sub ail before 
the door of a man blots out his sins deserving of punish- r-« 
ment, how much more effective will be the fluency of 
the tongue praising him, when the task is to do away 
with sin and to acquire heavenly reward ! The former 
Kiahis have mentioned what sacrifice is necessary when 
Snhail rises. I shall make a present to the kings by 
relating it, and shall make this relation a sacrifice unto 
Him. So I say : 

V. 14.- — His rising takes place at the moment when 
some of the light of the sun appears from the east, and 
the darkness of night is gathered in the west. The 
beginning of his appearance is difficult to perceive, and 
not every one who looks at him understands it. There- 
fore ask the astronomer at that moment about the direc- 
tion whence it rises - 

V- 15, [6, — Towards this direction offer the sacrifice 
called argka, and spread on the earth what you hap- 
pen to have, roses and fragrant flowers as they grow 
in the country. Put on them what you think fit, 
gold, garments, jewels of the sea, and offer incense, 
saffron, and sandalwood, musk and camphor, together 
with an ox and a cow, aud many dishes and sweet- 
meats. 

V. 17. — Know that he who does this during seven 
consecutive years with pious intention, strong belief, 
and confidence, possesses at the end of them the whole 
earth and the ocean which surround e it on the four 
sides, if he is a Kshatriya. 

V. 18. — I f ho is a Brahman, he obtains his wishes, 
learns the Veda, obtains a beautiful wife, and gets 
noble children from her. If he is a Vaiiya, he obtains 
much landed property and acquires a glorious lordship. 

I f he is a SMra, he will obtain wealth, AH of them 
obtain health and safety, the cessation of injuries, and 
the realisation of reward/* 

This is Yaraharniliira's statement regarding t-lie 


()6 


A LB E RUNTS INDIA , 


V aivi.fr ami- 
Irira’A 
hiffa, chi.41. 

XXIV. 1-37 , 

on HoTitljl, 


offering to Suhail. In the same book he gives also the 
rules regarding Rohini : 

“ Garga, Vasishtha, Kft^yapa, and Parana ra told their 
pupils that Mount Meru is built nf planks of gold- 
Out of them there have risen trees with numerous 
sweet- smelling flowers and blossoms. The bees already 
surround them with a humming pleasant to hear, and 
the nymphs of the Devas wander there to and fro with 
exhilarating melodies, with pleasant instruments and 
everlasting joy. This mountain lies in the plain Nan- 
danavaiia, the park of paradise . So they say. Jupiter 
was there at a time, and then Narad a the Ills hi asked 
him regarding the prognostics of Rohini, upon which 
Jupiter explained them to him* I shall here relate 
them as far as necessary* 

V. 4. — -Let a man in the black days of the month 
Ash ad ha observe if the moon reaches Rohini* Let him 
seek to the north or cast of the town a high spot* To 
this spot the Brahman must go who has the charge of 
the houses of the kings, lie is to light there a fire and 
to draw a diagram of the various planets and lunar 
stations round it, lie is to recite what is necessary for 
each one of them, and to give each its share of the 
roses, barley, and oil, and to make each planet propi- 
tio 1 1 s by th row i \) g th ese thin gs into the ft re . Ron n d tl 1 e 
lire on all four sides there must be as much as possible 
of jewels and jugs filled with the sweetest water, and 
whatever else there happens to be at hand at the 
moment, fruits, drugs, branches of trees, and roots of 
plants. Further, he is to spread there grass which is 
Cut with a sickle for his night-quarters* Then he is to 
take the different, kinds of seeds and corns, to wash 
them with water, to put gold in the midst of them, 
and to deposit them in a jug. He is to place it towards 
a certain direction,- and to prepare Soma, ie* throw- 
ing barley and oil into the fire, at the same time re- 
citing certain passages from the Veda t which refer to 


CHAPTER LVIL 


97 


d i ffer out directions, v i ss. V aru n a- mantra , Vavav a- m antra , ruga z 30. 
and Soma-mantra. 

lie raises a danda, i.e t a long 1 and high spear, from 
the top of which hang down two straps, the one as long 
as the spear, the other thrice as long. He must do all 
this before the moon reaches Echini, for tins purpose, 
that when she reaches it. ha should be ready to deter- 
mine the times of the blowing of the wind as well as 
its directions. lie learns this by means of the straps 
of the spear, 

¥., 10. —If the wind on that day blows from the cen- 
tres of the four directions, it is considered propitious 
if It blows from the directions between them, it is. 
considered unlucky* If the wind remains steady in the 
same direction, powerful and without changing, tins 
too is considered propitious. The time of its blowing 
is measured by the eight parts of the day, and each 
eighth part is considered as corresponding to the half 
of a month* 

V.. it.' — When the moon leaves the station Rohini, 
you look at the seeds placed in a certain direction. 

That of them which sprouts will grow plentifully in 
that year. 

Y. 12, — When the moon comes near Echini, you 
must be on the look-out. If the sky is clear, not affected 
by any disturbance: if the wind is pure and does not 
cause a destructive commotion ; if the melodies of the 
animals and birds are pleasant, this is considered, pro™ 
pit ions, We shall now consider the clouds, 

V. 13, 14. — If they float like the branches of the 
valley (? boM 7), and ouh of them the flashes of lightning 
appear to the eye ; if they open as opens the white 
lotus ; if the lightning encircles the cloud Hire the rays 
of the sun ; if the cloud has the colour of dibium, or of 
bees, or of saffron ; 

V. 15-19. — If the sky is covered with clouds, and 
out of them Hashes the lightning like gold, if the rain- 

YGL, II. G 


9 0 


A LBERUNFS INDIA . 


bow shows its round form coloured with some thing like 
the rod of evening twilight, and with colours like those 
of the garments of a bride; if the thunder roars like 
the screaming peacock, or the bird which cannot, drink 
water except from falling rain, which then screams for 
joy, as the frogs enjoy the full water-places, so as to 
cm a k v e 1 1 ern en tly , if y o u s ee th e sky ragi u g like th e 
raging of elephants and buffaloes in the thicket, in the 
various parts of which the fire is biasing if the clouds 
move like the limbs of the elephants, if they shine like 
the shining of pearls, conch-shells, snow, and even as 
the moonbeams, as though the moon had lent khe clouds 
her lustre and splendour ; 

V. 20, — All this indicates much rain and blessing by 
a rich growth. 

V, 2 Sr — At the time when the Brahman sits amidst 
the water- jugs, the falling of stars, the flashing of the 
lightning, thunderbolts, red glow in the sky, tornado, 
earthquake, the falling of hail, and the screaming of 
the wild animals, all these things are considered as 
unlucky. 

V. 26 , — If the water decreases in a jug on the north 
side, either by itself, or by a hole, or by dripping away, 
there will be no rain in the month SrUvana. If it de- 
creases in a jug on the east side, there will be no rain 
in Bhftdrapada. If it decreases in a jug on the south 
side, there will be no rain in A^vayuja- and if it de- 
creases in a jug on the west side, there will be no ram 
in Karttika* If there is no decrease of water in the 
jugs, the summer rain will be perfect* 

V. 2J, — From the jugs they also derive prognostics 
as to the different castas. The northern jug refers to 
the Brahman, the eastern to the Kshatriva, the southern 
to the Vais y a, and the western to the Sudra. If the 
names of people and certain circumstances are inscribed 
upon the jugs, all that happens to them if, ■ *i+g t they 
break or the water in them decreases t is considered as 


CHAPTER LVIL 


99 


prognosticating something which concerns those per- 
sona or ciro i Jin stance b.” 

“The rules relating to the stations Svatt and Sr a van a 
are similar to those relating to Rohini. When you are 
in the white days of the month AshMha, when the 
moon stands in either of the two stations A&hjulhih, 
i.e. Purvn-ashadJul or U tiara-ash ad If a, select a spot as 
you have selected it for Rohini, and take a balance 
of gold. That is the best. If it is of silver, it is 
middling. If it is not of silver, make it of wood 
called I'Jtayar, which seems to be the Uuulira tree 
(Le. Acacia catechu), or of the head of an arrow with 
which already a man has been killed. The smallest 
measure for the length of its beam is a span. The 
longer it is, the better; the shorter it is, the less 
favourable. 

Y. 6. — A scale has four strings, each io digits long. 
Its two scales are of linen cloth of the sizse of 6 digits. 
Its two weights are of gold. 

V, 7 , 8, — Weigh by it equal quantities of each 
matter, water of the wells, of the ponds, and of the 
rivers, elephants 5 teeth, the hair of horses, pieces of gold 
with the names of kiugs written on them, and pieces of 
other metal over which the names of other people, or the 
names of animals, years, days, directions, or countries 
have been pronounced, 

V. [. — In weighing, turn towards the east; put the 
weight in the right scale, and the things which are to 
be weighed, in the left. Recite over them and speak to 
the bal ance : 

V. 2 r — L Thou art correct ; thou art Deva, and the 
wife of a Deva. Thou art Saras vatu the daughter of 
Brahman. Thou reveal est the right and the truth. 
Thou art more correct than the soul of correctness, 

Y. 3. — Thou art like- the sun and the planets in their 
wandering from cast to west on one and the same road. 

Y. 4. Through thee stands upright the order of the 


Scu&MftEf 

l.:!lj5Lfl- 

V. I, mi 
fet’Att aru 3 
raiti&fui. 


JPigc 3.51. 

Sii Adi i £r : , 

0-ll;ip, .XATL 

V. 5 , 


IOQ 


A LB ER UNI'S INDIA. 


world, and in thee is united the truth and the correct- 
ness of all the angels and Brahmans. 

V. J. — Thon art the daughter of Brahman, and a 
man of thy house is Ivasyapa/ 

V. [. — -This weighing must take, place in the even- 
ing, Then put the things aside, and repeat their 
weighing the next morning, 'I' hat which has increased 
in weight will flourish and thrive in that year: that 
which has decreased will be bad and go back. 

This weighing, however, is not only to be done in 
A shad ha, but also in Kohini and SvatL 

V, I L -If the year is a leap-year, and the weigh- 
ing happens to take place in the repeated month, the 
weighing is in that year twice done, 

V, i2. — If the prognostics are identical, what they 
forebode will happen. If they were not identical, 
observe the prognostics of Bohini, for it is predomi- 
nant” 


( lOI ) 


CHAPTER LVIIL 

HOW EBB A XD BLOW FOLLOW EACH OTHER W THE 
OOEAJL 

Wit 31 regard to the cause why the water of the ocean 
always remains as it is, we quote the following passage 
from the Matsya^Pxvm/tja : — -“At the beginning there 
were sixteen mountains, which had wings and could fly 
and rise up into the air. However, the rays of India, 
the ruler, burned their wings, so that they fell down, 
deprived of them, somewhere about the ocean, four of 
them in each point of the compass — -in the east, Risha- 
bha, Balahaka, Cakra, Main aka; in the north, Carnlra, 
Kahka, Drona, Sulim a ; in the west, Vakra, Yadhra, 
Narad n, Parvata ; in the south, Jtmuta, Dravinm Main- 
aka ; Mahuiailu (?), Between the third and the fourth 
o f 1 bee aster r j i noun (.a in s th ere is th e fire St tm m t iahx, 
which drinks the water of the ocean h But lor this the 
ocean would fill up, since the rivers perpetually flow 
to it. 

“This fire was the fire of one of their kings, called 
Aurvu. lie had inherited the realm from hts father, 
who was killed while he was still an embryo. When 
he was born and grew up* and heard the history of his 
father, lie became angry against the angels, and drew 
his sword to kill them, since they had neglected, the 
guardianship of the world, notwithstanding mankind’s 
worshipping them and notwithstanding their being in 
close contact with the world. Thereupon the angels 
humiliated themselves before him and tried to cou- 


Quotation 
from Hit: 

Fi[rrmu, 


Btmy of 
Kin g An rva, 


Prt£fl a tjn. 


□ ie man L« 
Hie moon. 


Story uf the 
3 ij- prosy oi 
the ihq.hk 


103 ALBBRUNVS INDIA, 

ciliate him, so that he ceased from his wrath. Then he 
spoke to them : £ But what am I to do with the fire of 
my wrath?' and they advised him to throw it into the 
ocean. It is this tire which absorbs the waters of the 
ocean. Others say : * The water of the streams does not 
increase the ocean, because Indra, the ruler, takes np 
the ocean in the shape of the cloud, and sends it down 
as rains.’ ’’ 

Again the Mafayrt-Fvvi'hia says : “ The black part in 
the muon which is called j§ft£alak&ka, ie. the hare's 
figure, is the image of the figures of the above-men- 
tioned sixteen mountains reflected by the light of the 
moon on her body," 

The Vukmt-Dharma says : “The moon is called Sasa- 
laksha, for the globe of her body is watery } reflecting 
the. figure of the earth as a mirror reflects. On the 
earth there are mountains and trees of different shapes, 
which are reflected in the moon as a hare’s figure. It 
is also called MrkftdM.mna, i.e. the figure of a gazelle, 
for certain people compare the black part, on the moon's 
face to the figure of a gazelle/’ 

The lunar stations they declare to be the daughters 
of Prajftpati, to whom the moon is married. He was 
especially attached to Echini, and preferred her to the 
others. Now her sisters, urged by jealousy, complained 
of him to their father PrajapatL The latter strove to 
keep peace among them, and admonished him, but with- 
out any success. Then he cursed the moon (Luum), in 
consequence of which his face became leprous. Now 
the moon repented of his doing, and came penitent to 
Praj&pati, who spoke to him : !l My word is one, and 
cannot be cancelled; however, 1 shall cover thy shame 
for the half of each month/’ Thereupon the moon 
spoke to 1 5 raj apati : ’ £ But how shall the truce of the siu 
of the past be wiped off from me ? M Praj apati answered : 
“ By erecting the shape of the lima of AlahMfcva as an 
object of thy worship/ 5 This ho did. The lihf/a he 


CHAPTER LVUI. 


103 


raised was the stone of S 0 m unfit h, for s&ma means the Thew*i*f 
moon and ndtka means mmter, so that the whole word 
means m ft dev of the moon. The image was destroyed 
by tho Prince Mahmud — may God be merciful to 
him! — A.H. 416, He ordered the upper part to be 
broken and tho remainder to be transported to his resi- 
dence; Ghaznim with all its coverings and trappings of 
gold, jewels, and embroidered garments. Part of it 
has been thrown into the hippodrome of the town, 
together w r ith the Cakra^vdmin t an idol of bronze, that 
had been brought from Taneshai\ Another part of the 
idol from So man ft th lies before the door of the mosque 
of Ghaznin, on which people rub their feet to clean 
them from dirt and wet. 

The linm- is an image of the penis of Maliftdeva. I Origin ,if 
have heard the following story regarding it : — “ A Kishi, th0 
on seeing MaMdeva with his wife, became suspicious 
of him, and cursed him that lie should lose his penis. 

At once his penis dropped, and was as if wiped 
off. But afterwards the Rishi was in a position to 
establish the signs of his innocence and to confirm 
them by the necessary proofs. The suspicion which 
had troubled his mind was removed, and he spoke to 
him : ‘ Verily, I shall recompense thee by making the 
image of the limb which thou hast lost the object of 
worship for men, who thereby will find the road to God, 
and come near him/ 1 ’ 

Yarn ham ih ira says about the construction of the The con- 
lingo, : “After having chosen a faultless stone for it, theTiifga 
take it as long as tho image is intended to be, Divide ' 

it into three parts* The lowest part of it is quad- 
r angular, as if it were a cube or quadrangular column. ivIjl ' 
The middle part is octagonal, its surface being divided 
by four pilasters. The upper third is round, rounded 
off so as to resemble the gland of a penis. 

V. 54. — In erecting the figure, place the quadran- 
gular third within the earth, and for the octagonal third 


Jo4 


ALEE RUNTS INDIA < 


Page 253, 


Cliugrter 2x. 
v. 6 . 


The W0t*]j|j.i 

o f the Mol oi 
SatnM i lUb , 


] La f : irbont 
tbfl CfUlBC of 

tbc tidas. 


make a cover, which is caller! pinda t quadrangular from 
without, but so as to fit also on the quadrangular 
third in the earth. The octagonal form of the inner 
side is to fit on to the middle third, which projects out 
of the earth. The round third alone remains without 
cover. ” 

Further he says : — 

V- 55. — If you make the round part too small or 
too thin, it will hurt the country and bring about- evil 
among tlie inhabitants of the regions who have con- 
structed it* If it- does not go deep enough down into 
the earth j or if it projects too little out of the earth, 
this causes people to fall ill* When it 1 a in the course 
of construction, and is struck by a peg, the rulei 1 and 
his family will perish. If on the transport it is hit, 
and the blow leaves a trace on it, the artist will 
perish, and destruction and diseases will spread in that 
country/' 

In the south-west of the Sindh country this idol is 
frequently met with in the houses destined for the 
worship of the Hindus, but Soman St th was the most 
famous of these places. Every day they brought there 
a jug of (Ganges water and a basket of How or s from 
Kashmir. They believed that the l ruga of Somanftth 
would cure persons of every inveterate illness and heal 
every desperate and incurable disease* 

The reason why in particular Somanath has become 
so famous is that it was a harbour for seafaring people, 
and a station for those who went to and fro between 
Sufala in the country of the Zanj and China. 

Now aw regards ebb and flow in the Indian Ocean, 
of which the former is called bharna (?), the latter 
■{whura (?), we state that, according to the notions of the 
common Hindus, there is a fire called Vadamhwla in 
the ocean, which Is always blazing. The flow is caused 
by the fire’s drawing breath and its being blown up by 
the wind, and the ebb is caused by the fire's exhaling 


CHAPTER LVI1L 


105 

the breath and the cessation of its being blown up by 
the wind. 

Man! has. come to a belief like this, after he had 
heard from the Hindus that there is a demon in the 
sea whose drawing breath and exhaling breath causes 
the flow and the ebb. 

The educated Hindus determine the daily phases of 
the tides by the rising and setting of the inoon^ the 
monthly phases by the increase and waning of the 
moon ; but the physical cause of both phenomena is not 
understood by them. 

It is flow and ebb to which Somanuth owes its name 
(ie. master of the moon) : for the stone (or lingo,) of 
Somanuth was originally erected on the coast* a little 
less than three miles west of the mouth of the river 
Sarsuti, east of the golden fortress Enrol, which hail 
appeared as a dwelling-place for Vasii dev a, not far from 
the place where lie and his family were killed, and 
where they were burned. Each time when the moon 
rises and sets, the water of the ocean rises in the Hood 
so as to cover the place in question. When, then, the 
moon reaches the meridian of noon and midnight, the 
water recedes in the ebb, and the place becomes again 
visible. Thus the moon was perpetually occupied in 
serving the idol and bathing it. Therefore the place 
was considered as sacred to the moon. The fortress 
which contained the idol and its treasures was not 
ancient, but was built only about a hundred ye a re ago.. 

The says: <f The greatest height of 

the water of the flow is 1500 digits.” This statement 
seems rather exaggerated ; for if the waves and the 
mean height of the ocean rose to between sixty to 
seventy yards, the shores and the bays would be more 
overflown than has ever been witnessed. Still this is 
not entirely improbable, as it is not in itself impossible 
011 account of some law of nature. 

The fact that the just-mentioned fortress is said to 


Origin of the 
BocTisdiicaa 
of Soma- 
E&tb. 


Quotation 
from, t.ha 
FUkytit- 
Pm rtiVifL, 


A LEER UNI'S INDIA. 


Tli* golden 
ferine 
B 4 ./ 6 J. 
Parallel of 
Hie M ; i4e- 
dives and 
Lawadivea* 
F'ftge 354 * 


106 

have appeared out of the ocean is wot astonishing for 
that particular part of the ocean ; for the Dibaj&t 
islands (Maledive s and Laccadives) originate in a 
similar manner, rising out of the ocean as sand-downs* 
They increase, and rise, and extend themselves, and 
remain in this condition for a certain time. Then they 
become decrepit as if from old age ; the single parts 
become dissolved, no longer keep together, and dis- 
appear in the water as if melting away. The inhabi- 
tants of the islands quit that one which apparently dies 
away, and migrate to a young and fresh one which is 
about to rise above the ocean. They take their cocoa- 
nut palms along with them, colonise the new island, 
and dwell on it. 

That the fortress in question is called golden may 
only be a conventional epithet. Possibly, however, 
this object is. to be taken literally, for the islands of 
the Zabaj are called the Gold Country (SuvarimdiApa), 
because yon obtain much gold as deposit if you wash 
only a little of the earth of that country. 


( ) 


CHAPTER BIX. 

ON THE SQLAE ANT> LUNAtt ECLIPSE^ 

It is perfectly known to the Hindu astronomers that 
the moon is eclipsed by the shadow of the earth, and 
the sun is eclipsed by the moors. Hereon they have 
based their computations in the astronomical, hand- 
books and other works. 

VarOhamihira says in the Samhitd : — 

V. i* — "Some scholar* maintain that the Head be- 
longed to the J hiity as, and that his mother was Slm- 
liika. After the a] i gels had fetched the amriia out of 
the ocean, they asked Vishnu to distribute it among 
them. When he did so, the Head also came, resembling 
the angels in shape, aud associated himself with them. 
When Vishnu handed him a portion of the amriia, lie 
took and drank it. But then Vishnu perceived who it 
was, hit him with Ids round mkra t and cut off his head. 
However, the I lead remained alive on account of the 
amriia in its mouth, whilst the body died, since it had 
not yet partaken of the armiia* and the force of the 
latter had not yet spread through it. Then the Head, 
humbling itself, spoke: ‘For what sin has this been 
done 'f * Thereupon he was recompensed by being 
raised to heaven and by being made one of its in- 
habitants. 

V. 2 . — Others say that the Mead has u body like sim 
and moon, but that it is black and dark, and cannot 
th ere f o re b 0 seen in he a v 0 u . Brah m an , th e fi rat father. 


Oiiofottoii 
1 rum Vary- 

: MM ,h. I - ; 

ub. V. 


A LBERUNPS INDIA. 


10S 

ordered that lie should never appear in heaven except 
at the time oi' an eclipse. 

V, 3. — Others say that he has a head like that of a 
serpent, and a tail like that of a serpent, whilst others 
say that lie has no other body besides the black colour 
which is seen/* 

After having finished the relation of these absurdities, 
Varabamihira continues 

V, 4 , — ** If the Head had a body, it would act by 
immediate contact, whilst we find that he eclipses from 
a distance, when between him and the moon there, is 
an interval of six zodiacal signs. Besides, his motion 
docs not increase nor decrease, so that we cannot 
imagine art eclipse to be caused by his body reaching 
the spot of the lunar eclipse. 

Y. 5. — And if a man commits himself to such a 
view, let him tell us for what purpose the cye-les of the 
Head’s rotation have been calculated, and what is the 
use of their being correct in consequence of the fact 
that his rotation is a regular one. If the Head is 
imagined to be a serpent with head and tail, why does 
it not eclipse from a distance less or more than six 
zodiacal signs? 

V, 6 . — Mis body is there present between head and 
tail; both bang together by mean- of the body. Slid 
it does not eclipse sun nor moon nor the fixed stars of 
the lunar stations, there being an eclipse only if there 
are two heads opposed to each other* 

V. 7. — If the latter were the case, and the moon 
rose, being eclipsed by ono of the two, the sun would 
necessarily set, being eclipsed by the other. Likewise, 
L\,vu^ 5 . if the moon should set eclipsed, the sun would rise 

eclipsed* And nothing of the kind ever occurs. 

Y. $. — As has been mentioned by scholars who enjoy 
the help of God, an eclipse of the moon is her enter- 
ing the shadow of the earth, a?id an eclipse of the sun 
consists in this that the moon covers and hides the sun 


CHAPTER LlX. 


109 

from ns. Therefore the lunar eclipse will never revolve 
from the west nor the solar eclipse from the east, 

V. 9, — A long shadow stretches away from the earth ? 
in like manner as the shadow of a tree, 

V. ro. — When the moon has. only little latitude, 
standing in the seventh sign of its distance from the 
sun, and if it does not stand too far north or south, in 
that case the moon enters the shadow of the earth and 
is eclipsed thereby. The first contact takes place on 
the side of the east, 

V. 1 1. — When the sun is reached by the moon from 
the west, the moon covers the sun, as if a portion of a 
clo i id covered him . The amo 1 it it of th e cov e ri tig d i ff ers 
in different region r, 

V. 12. — Because that which covers the tnoon is large, 
her light wanes when one-half of it. is eclipsed ; and 
because that which covers the sun is not large, the rays 
are powerful notwithstanding the eclipse. 

V, 13. — The nature of the Head lias nothing what- 
ever to do with the lunar and solar eclipses. On this 
subject the scholars in their books agree.” 

After having described the nature of the two eclipses, 
as he understands them, he complains of those who do 
not know this* and says: “However, common people 
are always very loud in proclaiming the Head to be 
the cause of an eclipse, and they say, 1 Tf the Head 
did not appear and did not bring about the eclipse, the 
Brahmans would not at that moment undergo an obli- 
gatory washing. 1 ” 

Var&hamiMra says : — 

V. 14. — “ The reason of this is that the head humi- 
liated itself after it had been cut off, and received from 
Brahman a portion of the offering which the Brahmans 
offer to the fire at the moment of an eclipse* 

V, ij h . — Therefore lie is near the spot of the eclipse, 
searching for his portion. Therefore at that time people 
mention him frequently, and consider him as the cause 


ALBERUNI'S INDIA. 


FL'isisu ni 
Viifiihasiti - 
Lira, 


SI rtaturog 
on tfrUimu’ 

of gin, partly. 


Quotation 
from tins 

ciJWE JiiOr 


Ptogt; 256, 


I lo 

of the eclipse, although he has nothing whatsoever to 
olo with it: for the eclipse depends entirety upon the 
uniformity and the declination of the orbit of the 
moon/ 5 

The latter words of Varahamihlra, who, in passages 
quoted previously , has already revealed himself to us 
as a man who accurately knows the shape of the world, 
are odd and surprising. However, he seems sometimes 
to side with the Brahmans, to whom he belonged, and 
from whom he could not. separate himself. Still he 
does not deserve to be blamed, as, on the whole, his 
foot stands firmly on the basis of the truth, and lie 
clearly speaks oat the truth* Compare, e.g* his state- 
ment regarding the S&rhtthi, which wo have mentioned 
above (v, I, 366). 

Would to God that all distinguished men followed 
his example ! But look, for instance, at Brahmagupta, 
who is certainly the most distinguished of their astro- 
nomers. For as he was one of the Brahmans who read 
hi their Purfmas that the sun is lower than the moon, 
and who therefore require a head biting the sun in 
order that he should be eclipsed, he shirks the truth 
and lends his support to imposture, if he did not — and 
tliis we think by no means impossible — from intense 
disgust at them, speak as he spoke simply in order to 
mock them, or under the compulsion of some mental 
derangement, like a man whom death is about to rob of 
his consciousness* The words in question are Hound in 
the first chapter of his Hr ah madddh dMa : — 

14 Some people think that the eclipse is not caused bv 
the Head. This, however, is a foolish idea, for it is he 
in fact who eclipses, and the generality of the inhabi- 
tants of the world say that it is the Head who eclipses. 
The Veda , which is the word of God from the mouth of 
Brahman, says that the Head eclipses, likewise the book 
Sttiriti, composed by Mann, and the SamMtd, composed 
by Garga the son of Brahman. On the contrary, Vara- 


CHAPTER L IX. 


1 1 1 

h a m il i i ra , S ri she n a-, A ry abhata , an d V isli nu can dra mai n- 
tain that the eclipse is not caused "by the Head, but 
by the moon and the shadow of the earth, in direct 
opposition to all (to the generality of men), and from 
emrn ty again st th e j n st-m ention ed d ogm a . Y or if fch e 
Head does not cause the eclipse, all the usages of the 
Brahman a which they practise at the moment of an 
eclipse, viz H their rubbing themselves with warm oil, 
and other works of prescribed worship, would be illu- 
sory and not be rewarded by heavenly bliss* .If a man 
declares these things to bo illusory, ho stands outside 
of the generally acknowledged dogma, and that is not 
allowed. Mann says in the SmrUi : * When the Head 
keeps the sun or moon in eclipse, all waters on earth 
become pure, and in purity like the water of the Ganges.' 
The Veda says : c The Head h the son of a woman of the 
daughters of the Baity as, called j Bairn kd 5 (? Simhika ?). 
Therefore people practise the well-known works of piety, 
and therefore those authors must cease to oppose the 
generality, for everything which is in the Veda, iSm.riti, 
and SarhhUd is true/’ 

If Brahmagupta, in this respect, is one of those of 
whom God says ( Koran. Sura xxvih 14), ff They have 
rfemed our signs , although their hearts knew them dearly, 
from wickedness and haughtiness” we shall not argue 
with him, but only whisper into his ear: If people 
must under circumstances give up opposing the reli- 
gions codes (as seems to be your case), why then do yon 
order people to be pious if yon forget to be so your- 
self? Why do you, after having spoken such words, 
then begin to calculate the diameter of the moon in 
order to explain her eclipsing the sun, and the dia- 
meter of the shadow of the earth in order to explain its 
e el ip si n g t h e mo on ? Why do y on comp ute both eclipses 
in agreement with the theory of those heretics, and not 
according to the views of those with whom you think 
it proper to agree? If the Brahmans are ordered to 


I 12 


ALQERUNPS INDIA . 


P&ssUj Le 
extm^ tor 

T5fc- r il i 
KlLj'tEl. 


Pligc a:,?. 


practise some act of worship or something else at the 
occurrence of an eclipse, the eclipse is only the date 
of these things, not their came. Thus we Muslima are 
hound to say certain prayers, and prohibited from say- 
ing others, at certain times of the revolution of the sun 
and his light. These things are simply chronological 
dates for those acts, nothing more, for the sun has 
nothing whatever to do with ouj 1 (Muslim) worship, 

Brahmagupta says (ii. 1 10), “The generality thinks 
thus. 1 If he thereby means the totality of the inhabi- 
tants of the inhabitable world, we can only say that he 
would be v cry little able to investigate their opinions 
either by exact research or by means of historical tra- 
dition. For India itself is, in comparison to tile whole 
inhabitable world, only a small matter, and the number 
of those who differ from the Hindus, both in religion 
and law, is larger than the number of those who agree 
with them. 

Or if Brahmagupta means the generality of the Hindus, 
we agree that the uneducated among them are much 
more numerous than the educated ; but we also point 
out that in all our religious codes of divine revelation 
the uneducated crowd is blamed as being ignorant, 
always doubting, and ungrateful, 

I, for my part, am inclined to the belief that that 
which made Brahmagupta speak the above-mentioned 
words (which involve a sin against conscience) was 
something of a calamitous fate, like that of Socrates, 
which had befallen him, not with stand lug the abun- 
dance of his knowledge and the sharpness of his intel- 
lect, and notwithstanding his extreme youth at the 
time. For he wrote the Bmhmmiddhdnia when he was 
only thirty years of age. If this indeed is his excuse, 
we accept it, and herewith drop the matter. 

As for the above-mentioned people (the Hindu theo- 
logians). from whom you must take care not to differ, 
bow should they be able to understand the astronomical 


CHAPTER LIX. 


i 13 

theory regarding the moon’s eclipsing the sun, as they, 
in their Purftnas } place the moon dhow the sun, and 
that which is higher cannot cover that which is lower 
in the sight of those who stand lower than both. 
Therefore they required some being which devours 
moon and sun, as the fish devours the bait, and causes 
them to appear in those shapes in which the eclipsed 
parts of them in reality appear* However, in each 
nation there are ignorant people, and leaders still more 
ignorant than they themselves, who (as the Koran, 
Sura xxix. 12, says) “bear their own burdens and other 
burdens besides them/' and who think they can increase 
the light of their minds ; the fact being that the masters 
are as ignorant as the pupils. 

Very odd is that which YarShamihira relates of certain 
ancient writers, to whom we must pay no attention if 
we do not want to oppose them, viz. that they tried to 
prognosticate the occurrence of an eclipse by pouring a 
small amount of water together with the same amount 
of oil into a large vase with aflat bottom on the eighth 
of the lunar days. Then they examined the spots 
where the oil was united and dispersed. The united 
portion they considered as a prognostication for the be- 
ginning of the eclipse, the dispersed portion as a prog- 
nostication for its end. 

Further, V'ambamihira says that somebody used to 
think that the conjunction of the planets is the cause 
of the eclipse ( V, 1 6), whilst others tried to prognosticate 
an eclipse from unlucky phenomena, as, e..y + the falling 
of stars, comets, halo, darkness, hurricane, landslip, and 
ear lb q u ake . L ' r J ’h ese things / 1 sc h e s ays , ( ' are n o t al w ay s 
contemporary with an eclipse, nor are they its cause ; 
the nature of an unlucky event is the only thing which 
these occurrences have in common with an eclipse* A 
reasonable explanation is totally different from such 
absurdities/’ 

The same man, knowing only too well the character 

VOL. II. H 


Quo tat: An* 
from V;iriL. 
ham ihfra’s 
(ft, 

■chap, v, l j , 
l4 i ^ 3 - 


On Hie 
I'HjLn.Lr-y of 
I ho edipfcc*. 


i J4 ALBER UN VS INDIA . 

of bis country men, who like to mix up peas with wolfs 
beans, pearls with rlung, says, without quoting mi y 
authority for his words (Y, 63) : If at the time of an 
eclipse a violent wind blows, the next eclipse will be 
six months later. If a star falls down* the next eclipse 
will be twelve months later. If the air is dusty, it will 
be eighteen months later. If there is an earthquake, it 
will be twenty-four months later. If the air is dark, it 
will be thirty months later. If hail falls, it will be 
thirty-six months later.’ 1. 

To such things silence is the only proper answer* 

1 shall not omit to mention that the different kinds 
of eclipses described in the canon of Aik hw ark tui, 
though correctly represented, do not agree with the 
results oi actual observation. More correct is a similar 
view of the Hindus, viz that the eclipse has the colour 
of smoke if it covers less than half the body of the 
moon; that it is coal-black if it completely covers one 
half of her ; that it has a colour between black and red 
if the eclipse covers more than half of her body; and, 
lastly, that it. is yellow-brown if it covers the whole 
body of the moon. 


( 1 1 5 ) 


CHAPTER LX 


OX Till-] PATTVA^. 


The intervals between which an eel ipsa may happen 
and the number of their Innations are sufficiently 
demonstrated in the sixth chapter of Almagest, The 
Hindus call a period of time at the beginning and end 
of which there occur lunar eclipses, parvan. The fol- 
lowing information on the subject is taken from the 
Sa *3 i i hitA T ts an th o r , V ar flham lhir a, says: U E ach s i x 
months, form aparTcm, in which an eclipse may happen. 
These eclipses form a cycle of seven > each of which has 
a particular dominant and prognostics, as exhibited in 
the following table: — 


Ximxher 
of the 
Parvans^ 

I 

2 

3 

4 

fi 

6 

T 

Dornt- 

TliUj Lh 

<]f t.]lU 
Parvaria, 

Llrinlj 1 1 m3:. 

^.c^. the 
M.oon, 

Inclm, 

the 

Riilor, 

K.Mterfl, 
tlie Pro- 
tector 
of the 
XorttL 

V amy :i r 

III* Pm- 
tcetij]- 
of the 
Water. 

AcUii ttte 
FfrOf sIejo 
called 
MiL rii- 
h]j>a. 

Vama H 

tlie 

An^fll nf 
Death. 

yi 

1 

Ed 

J3 

E-« 

- - ifi V? . 

I III 

l?i 

£> p 
^ g si'S 
q ^95 
^ «"S 

a 

^ b :j 
j; 'Ll 4J p 

&****> 

$z 
t * 

C- — 

■+= r-> 

- 4 

a-E 

p JC,, “ 

« £ 

^ £ 
3^ 

■ ? v;i 
s| o 
% 

J-H 

•s®s. 

s 

B £. s 
ffi d! 

(V. ^ c 

* E £ 

a? jj- H 

£ S 5 

es s 

t: -d 

|ll| 

2 S $ § 

o i— ^ S 

B^7 Sj 

gr 

it 

Is 

'm >E 
£ -* 
d» a 
cj 3 
c 2 

ft 

■Sj 

J g- 

* g, 

j^T tL 
H 

Id & 

«° £ 

.. C 

™-S3 

.= J-’ 

- 

tf; 

5| 

QJ O bD 

3 3 ■- 

'E2 

H S 3 
£ 5 = 

o -s 

05 

|^ = 

a a -*E 

- 'T ft 

tf 0 

S tyj ^ 

Mi 

tfJ 

§* 2 g 

e^l 

H 

S 

4h 

e 

£ | 

OJ c 

g ft 
£ J 
* 

93 -t- 3 

3 3 


EablwlLutiofl 
g£ m» term 


QiJLoEattm i 

from VrtrA- 
Vnu n 

Stimhiift, 
efrap. v. 

^y-23- 


A LBERUNVS INDIA, 


Elnlca for 
ttio cooipu- 
tatiu-n (if the 
rwtn from 
the A7i an- 
da&kfldffaka- 


*59- 


Quotation 

from VjlyA- 
•hamihiv&'.s 

clwp, T. *3^ 


1 16 

The computation of the ywm^in which you happen 
to bo is the following, according to the KiumdakkMyaL -a : 
"Write dow n the tdturfjana, as computed according to 
this canon, in two places. _\] nltipiy the one by go, and 
divide the product by 1296, reckoning a fraction 7 if it is 
not less than one-half, as a whole. Add to the quotient 
1063. Add the s utn to th e nn m ber w ritten i n th a seco ad 
place, and divide the sum by i8o, The quotient, as 
consisting of wholes, means the number of complete 
parmm. Divide it by J, and the remainder under 7 
which you get means the distance of the particular 
■parmn from the first one. i>e. from that of Brahman, 
However, the remainder under 1 80 which you get by 
the division is the elapsed part of the parvtm in which 
you are. You subtract It from 180. If the remainder 
is less than 15, a lunar eclipse is possible or necessary ; 
if the remainder is larger, it is impossible. Therefore 
you must always by a similar method compute that 
time which has elapsed before the particular parm-n in 
which you happen to be. ,T 

In another passage of the book we find the following 
rule; * Take the ix. the past portion 

of the days of a Icalpa. Subtract therefrom 96,03 r, 
and write down the remainder in two different places. 
Subtract from the lower number 84, and divide the sum 
by 561, S ub tract th e q n ct i en t fro in th e 1 1 pp er n 1 1 m ber 
and divide the remainder by 173. The quotient you 
disregard, but the remainder you divide by 7. The quo- 
tient gives beginning with Brahni&di ” (sic). 

These two methods do not agree with each other. 
We are under the impression that in the second pas- 
sage something has either fallen out or been changed 
by the copyists. 

What Yiinlhamihira says of the astrological portents 
of the p$rmm does not well suit, his deep learning. 
He says : "If in a certain parr an there is no eclipse, 
but there is one in the other cycle, there are no rains, 


CHAPTER LX. 


117 

and there will be much hunger and killing/’ If in 
this passage the translator has not made a blunder, 
we can only say that this description applies to each 
parmn preceding such a one- in which there occurs an 
eclipse, 

Stranger still is the following remark of Ins (V. 24) : 
“If an eclipse occurs earlier than lias been calculated, 
there is little rain and the sword is drawn* If it 
occurs later than has been calculated, there will be 
pestilence, and death, and destruction in the corn, the 
fruit, and flowers* (Y. 25.} This is part of what I have 
found in the books of the ancients and transferred to 
this place. If a man properly knows ho w to calculate, 
it will not happen to him in his calculations that an 
eclipse falls too early or too late. If the sun is eclipsed 
and darkened outside a ptwvan. yon must know that an 
angel called TVashtri has eclipsed him.” 

Similar to tins is what he says in another passage: 
£: If the turning to the north Lakes place before the sun 
enters the sign Capricornus, the south and the west 
will be ruined* If the turning to the south takes place 
before the sun enters Cancer, the east and the north 
will be ruined. It' the turning coincides with the sun’s 
entering the first degrees of these two signs, or takes 
place after it, happiness will be common to all four 
sides, and bliss in them will increase." 

Such sentences, understood as they seem intended 
to be understood, sound like the ravings of a madman, 
but perhaps there is an esoteric meaning concealed 
behind them which we do not know. 

After this we must continue to speak of the dmini 
iemporum, for these two aro of a cyclical nature, adding 
such materials as are related to them. 


Chap r in, 
v. 6. 


Uji4. v. . 1h 


( JiB ) 


Which of the 
differ sue 
m Eiivsi n'Hjjji of 

tlt'alQ hiLTC 
clrttnjnjLnta 

su)4 whir ih 
not, 


Fugo aGth. 


CHAPTER LXL 

ON THR DOMINANTS OF THE DIFFERENT MEASURES OF 
TIME IN BOTH RELIGIOUS AND ASTRONOMICAL RELA- 
TIONS, AND ON CONNECTED SUBJECTS, 

Duration, or time in general, only applies to the 
Creator as being Ms age, and not determinable by a 
beginning and an end. In fact, it is his eternity. 
They frequently call it thi sold. i.e. pu rit.sha. But as 
regards common time, which is determinable by mo- 
tion, the single parts of it apply t-o beings beside the 
Creator, and to natural phenomena beside the muL 
Thus kalpa is always used in relation to Brahman ? for 
it is Ins day and night, and his life is determined by it. 

Each manvantara has a special dominant called 
Mann, who is described by special qualities, already 
mentioned in a former chapter. On the other hand, 1 
have never heard anything of dominants of the catur- 
jfttgtts or yogas* 

Var&hamihira says in the Great- Bool' of Nativities : 
Ll Abda^ Le, the year, belongs to Saturn ; Ay ana, half a 
year, to the sun ; liita, the sixth part of a year, to Her- 
onry ; thr Tmniih, to Jupiter; Pakshi, half a month, to 
Yen us; Vdsam t the day, to Mars; Mohdrta, to the 
moon,” 

In the same book he defines the sixth parts of the 
year in the following manner: M The first, beginning 
with the winter solstice, belongs to Saturn ; the second, 
to Venus ; the third, to Mars ; the fourth, to the Moon ■ 
the fifth, to Mercury; the sixth, to Jupiter,*’ 


CHAPTER LX I. 


1 19 

We Lave already, in former chapters, described the 
dominants of the hours, of the muhurtan^ of the halves 
of the lunar days, of the single days in the white and 
black halves of the month, of the parvana of the 
eclipses, and of the single monvantarm. What there 
is more of the same kind we shall give in this place, 

I n computing the dominant of the pear, the Hindus Comput*- 
11 se another method than the Western nations, who dominant kf 
compute it, according to certain well-known rules, from 
the aswndem or horoscope of a year. The dominant of 
the year as well as the dominant of the month arc the 
rulers of certain periodically recurring parts of time, 
and are by a certain calculation derived from the domi- 
nants of the hours and the dominants of the t lays. 

Tf you want to find the dominant, of the year, com- 
pute the sum of days of the date in question according 
to the rules of the canon Kh a ndahhad yab.i, which is 
the most u 11 i v er sally u sed am on g the m , Sn bfcr act the r 0- 
f rom 2201, and divide th 0 rem nind e r by 3 60. M ul fciply 
the quotient by 3, and add to the product always 3, 

Divide the sum by 7, The remainder, a number 
under 7, you count off on the week-days, beginning 
with Sunday. The dominant of that, day you come 
to is at the same time the domincmt of the year. The 
remainders you get by the division are the days of his 
rule which have already elapsed. These, together with 
the days of his rule which have not yet elapsed, give 
the sum of 360. 

It is the same whether we reckon as we have just 
explained, or add to the here- mentioned sum of days 
319, instead of subtracting from it* 

If you want to find the dominant of the months sub- now to fi u <i 
tract 71 from the sum of days of the date in question, SmtofSio 
and divide the remainder by 30= Double the quotient UIUHtlj 
and add 1. The sum divide by 7, and the remainder 
count olf on the week-days, beginning with Sunday „ 

The dominant of the day yon come to is at the same 


I 20 


ALBERUNPS INDIA , 


rtitre e- 5 t. 

Quotation 
from MtihA- 
diva. 


The tfayw 

ill hmj 3 i M l:l':- 

tio 1 1 with 
the pljuietH: 


time the dominant of the month. The remainder yon 
get by the division is that, part of his role which has 
already elapsed. This, together with that part o£ his 
rule which has not yet elapsed, gives the sum of 30 days. 

It is the same whether you reckon as we have just 
explained, or add 19 to the days of the date, instead of 
subtracting from them, and then add 2 instead of 1 to 
the double of the sum. 

It. is useless here to speak of the dominant of the 
day, for you find It by dividing the sum of the days of 
a date by 7 ; or to speak of the dominant of the hour, 
for you find it by dividing the revolving sphere by 13. 
Those, however, who use the wpou Ka^nat divide by 1 5 
the distance between the degree of the sun and the de- 
gree of the awenden*. it being measured by equal degrees, 

The book &'ildha , m of Mahwh/m says : <f Each of 
the thirds of the day and night lias a dominant. The 
dominant of the first third of day and night is Brahman, 
that of the second Vishnu, and that of the third Kudra. n 
This division is based on the order of the three primeval 
forces rtpja,% Urww-i)^ 

The Hindus have still another custom, via. that of 
mentioning together with the dominant of the year one 
of the Ndgas or serpents, which have certain names as 
they are used in connection with one or other of the 
piano t-s. W e b a ve im i ted th e tn in the fol lo w i ng tab 1 e : — 


Table ol the serpents. 

The domtxuuit of 

The names at the serpent* wllieh 

aecumpiuiiy the 

the year. 

UewiwUifl A.fthi r given in Lwu different forma. 

Sun, 

Buka [? Vasnki}, 

Nandft. 

Muun. 

Push kata, 

ftitrteijg*dfl. 

Mars-. 

Fiijdamka., Bh&rma. (?)+ 

Takshaka. 

M ereuiy. 

CabVabasta (?), 

KarkoEa. 

Jd plter. 

ElftpaOa, 

Padma. 

Venus, 

Eaikotaka, 

Mabapadma, 

Saturn, 

Cakah&bhadrft { V> , 

Eankb&H 


CHAPTER LXL 


121 


The Hindus cam bine the planets with the sun be- 
cause they depend upon the sun r and the fixed stars 
with the moon because the stars of her stations belong 
to them. It is known among Hindu as well as Muslim 
astrologers that the planets exercise the rule over the 
zodiacal signs. Therefore they assume certain angelic 
beings as the dominants of the planets, who are ex^ 
hi bite d in the following table, taken from the Vishmi- 
dha rm a ; — 


Table of the doium&utE uf the plomet-s. 

The plftueta aud the two nodes. 

Sun. 

Moon. 

Mars- 

Mercury. 

Jupiter. 

Venus. 

Sfttiirt]. 

The HeatL 

The Tail. 

Tliesr dominant^ 

Agut 

VyAna {?). 

Kulmdsha <7). 

Vishnu > 

Sukra, 

Gaud. 

PrajftpatL 

Gaimpati \'t). 

YMvakamian. 

The same book attributes also to the lunar stations 
as to the planets certain dominants, who are contained 
in the following table : — ■ 

The Lunar Studout- 

Tlielr dGuutimnt#. 

K|itliklL 

Agnk 

WMnl 

Kesvam, 

JVIrigaftreha* 

lndu, Lo. t.h« uioqji. 

Ani tL 

Kudra, 

Puna,rv r aHn, 

Aditl. 

Pushy a. 

Gimc, Lr, Jupiter. 

AileslisL 

Ha ip as , 

M&ghft 

Pi Laras. 

Pfirvapbalgun5. 

Bbaga. 

SJttarapbalgLmi 

Aryamatb 

Hag La. 

S*vitri P Savitl. 

CitriV 

Tvasktji. 

Svhti. 

Vhjn. 

VfsAkhA 

ItidrAgni. 


Tilt: dotni- 
Etautft Of tha 
pLurseta ac-. 

ucirrllnfT to 

Fix* tbii- 
df./irka. 


The domi. 
nun tn uf tiie 
luDU 
Etationa 


Page 262. 


122 


ALBERUNl’S INDIA. 


The Lunar Static™, 

Their dominants. 

AnurMM. 

Mitra* 

Jjeshtbft- 

Sakra, 

mia. 

Nirriti. 

l J ur vhsI] sic] liii , 

A pas. 

Utfear^shstilha. 

Visv^[devai]. 

Abb i jit. 

Brahman. 

ttravanft. 

Vishnu. 

Dhaivi shift. 

Vasavas, 

Satabbishaj, 

Yanina. 

1 3 ftrrabbfidrapad ft. 

[Aja ekapftdj. 

U tta Tabh&drapadii. 

Abir bndlmja. 

Bevat-1. 

Pasiian. 

Aivint. 

Advla CO. 

Bh&rariL 

Yams, 


( '23 ) 


CHAPTER LX IT. 

ON THE SIXTY YEA RS -£ A M YATS A R X, ALSO CALLED 
“ SHASHTVABDA.” 

The word smivatmra, which means the years, is a tech- 
nical term for cycles of years con str acted on the basis 
of the revolutions of J upiter and the sun, the heliacal 
rising of the former being reckoned as the beginning. 
It revolves in sixty years, and is therefore called shash- 
(yabda, i.e. sixty years. 

We have already mentioned that the names of the 
lunar stations are, by the names of the months, divided 
into groups, each month having a namesake in the cor- 
responding group of stations. We have represented 
these things in a table* in order to facilitate the subject 
(v> in 2l8). Knowing the station in which the heliacal 
rising of Jupiter occurs, and looking up this station 
in the just-mentioned table, you find at the left of it. 
the name of the month which rules over the year in 
question* You bring the year in connection with the 
month, and say, ex/, the year of Caitra, the year of Vai- 
M.hha, &e. For each of these years there exist astro- 
logical rules which are well known in their literature. 

For the computation of the lunar station in which 
the heliacal rising of Jupiter occurs, Yarfthamihira 
gives the following rule in his SmhMid 

^ Take the Sakakala, multiply it by 11, and multiply 
the product by 4, You may do this, or you may also 
multiply the Sakakala by 44. Add 85 89 to the product 


Fii^e afij. 


Kxijlatift’ 
tkm of the 
terms icrw 
i'fl fcsttrei Mill 
ihathi^nUia ■ 


A y«UT ift 
provided 
tivcr hy tli at 
rinnilj. lax 
which the 

r^Siij^ of 
.TiLjilccr 


TEor* to find 
t,k<? lunar 
station of 
Jnpitcir p E 
heliacal lin- 
ing. Quota- 
tion from 
Varlhaui i- 
b ini's Sant' 
hit ft, I'-tiup. 
Tili. 20, 21. 


124 


A LBERUNFS INDIA. 


and divide the sum by 3750. The quotient represents 
years, months, days, &c. 

:i Add them to the $akakftla, and divide the snm by 
6 o . The quotient represents great sexagenarian ffwgas t 
•Le r complete shaskt^>das > which, as not being necessary, 
are disregarded. Divide the remainder by 5, and the 
quotient represents small, complete five-year -gngas. 
That which remains being less than one yu-ga y is called 
MmfWj i.e r the year, 

(i V, 22. — Write down the latter number in two diffe- 
rent places h Multiply the one by 9, and add to the pro- 
duct -V of the number in the other place. Take of the 
sum the fourth part, and this number represents com- 
plete lunar stations, its fractions representing part of 
the next following current station* Count off this 
number of the stations, beginning with Dhaniehtha, 
The station you arrive at Is that one in which the 
heliacal rising of Jupiter takes place/' Thereby you 
knew the month of the years, as has above been ex- 
plained. 

Smaller The great yugas begin with the heliacal rising of 

SSiSnedin Jupiter in the beginning of the station Dhanishttai. and 
the beginning of the month Mfigha. The small yugm 
have within the great ones a certain order, being 
divided into groups which comprehend certain numbers 
of years, and each of which has a special dominant. 
This division is represented by the following table* 

If you know what number in the great ynya the year 
in question occupies, and you look up this number 
among the numbers of the years in the upper part 
of the table, you find under it, in the corresponding 
columns, both the name of the year and the name of 
its dominant. 


' 

■m i' 
t ** «e 

1 * 3 * 

2 S ’T'! 

§&$■&■ 

5i ^ ■■* 

.3 a ^ 

J 

Numbers 
with Eh« 
unit i„ 

Number 3 . 
with th 0 
unit 6 . 

NumlKire 
with the; 
unit 2 . 

JN lam t>D]'a 
with the 
nnrt j. 

N ii m burs 
with Lite 

unit ^ 

N imLhert 
with th 0 
unit S- 

Numbers 
with the 
unit 4 „ 

N ti rah era 
with the 
unit- 9 . 

5i uni twins 

with the 
unit 5 , 

Numbera 
without A 
unit. 

I 

U 

21 

3* 

4 r 

S 1 

6 . 

16 

26 

35 

46 

56 

2 

12 

22 

33 

42 

S3 

7 

i? 

27 

37 

47 

57 

3 

13 

23 

33 

43 

53 

S 

iS 

38 

4 S 

58 

4 

14 

24 

34 

44 

34 

9 

19 

29 

39 

49 

59 

5 

l 5 

35 

45 

55 

10 

20 

30 

40 

£ 

The names 
which each 1 
dozen of years . 
has in 
common- 

^RmvMmra. 

r&rivnt&ara* 

Idftvatsara. 

Anuvatsam. 

Udvatsara 

Their 1 

dominants. | 

Agni P 

i,£, 

the fire. 

Ark a, 

the sen. 

tiEtainajiiktiaoiiUm, 
?'.r. having n cold 
ray, vie, the moon. 

Praj&pati, l ha 
father o£ the. 
lunar stations. 

Sall&gut&pat-ii 
the husband of tliti 
daughter of the 
mountain, vis;, 
Malt aid c va , 


w 

L-M 


CHAPTER LXII. 


12 6 


A LEER UN PS INDIA. 


The names- 
of t-lie single 
yei-tru of a 


Further, every single owe of the sixty years has a 
name of its own, mul the yugas^ too, have names which 
are the names of their dominants. Ah these names 
are exhibited in the following table. 

This table is to be used in the same way as the 
preceding one, as yon find the name of each year 
of the whole cycle (of sixty years) under the cor re ^ 
spending number. It would be a lengthy affair if we 
were to explain the meanings of the single names 
and their prognostics. All this is found in the book 
Smhhiid. 


365. 


1. — Lustrum* 

Favourable* Its lord iy Mania* ie, Nilra- 

ya^ia 


II, — Lustrum. 

Favourable* Its ]ord Surejva, Le- Jupiter 


III. — Lustrum* 

Favourable. Its lord Ealabhit, m\ 
Indra * * 


IV. — Lustrum. 

Favourable. Its lord Hatft&u i- e< the fire 


V. — Lustrum. 

Indifferent, Its lord Trashtri, the lord 
of the lunar station CItm . 


VI. Lustrum. 

Indifferent. It* lord Froshth&pada, the 
lord of the lunar station UttarabSl- 
drapada . ■ 


Prabhava. 

6 . 

A ugivas, 

ii. 

Is vara. 

rfj. 

Ci( mbbfina. 

21. 

Sam jit* 

26. 

ft an dan a. 


2* 

Vibhavfi, 

i h 

Bukla. 

4 - 

Framoda, 

5 - 

Frajftpati. 

7 . 

Srimukbn. 

8, 

BhflVEL 

Yuvan, 

10. 

Bhatfi. 

JE 3 . 

Bahudhftnya, 

PramrLthiij. 

14. 

Yikmnui. 

r S- 

Yisba. 

(Vn shabby, ?) 

17. 

Subbfiuu. 

IS* 

Pfirtihiva (?), 

19* 

T&rana. 

20. 

Vyaya* 

23 . 

SarvadMrin. 

23. 

Vi rod hi n. 

34, 

Viknfca. 

25. 

Khara. 

* 7 - 

28. 

29. 

3 °- 

Vi jay a. 

Jay a. 

Man mat ha. 

Cadur {E}- 


CHAPTER LXII. 




VI l r — Lustrum. 

Indifferent, Ita lord Pititras, i.e. the | 
fathers + . \ 

3 1 l 

Hemalamba. 

VIII,— Lnetruip, 

In il ilfe rent. Its lord is Siva 1 Lt. the ) 

cre^tiu res . . , , . . ( 

:?6 ' 

Sokakj-it. 

IX. Lustrum, 

Unlucky. Its lord Soma, i.e. the moon . 

41 . 

Plavainga, 

X. — Lustrum, 

Unlucky, Its lord Sakr&uaJa, Lr. Imlra j 
and the fire together . . . ,i 

46. 

l 3 aiidhivift. 

XI. — Ld strum < 

Unlucky. Its lord A:-ndtj 1 tins lord of \ 
the lunar station AhvlhJ , , . j 

S 1 - 

PmgaJa. 

XI L— LiJMi riiim 

Unlucky, Its Lord Bhaga r the lonl of/ 
the lunar station PCiryaphalguni „ , j 

S 6. 

DundubhL 


32 , 

Vilfi.tiddi.i, 

33 ■ 

Vikilrin. 

37- 

&iibhakfit. 

3&« 

Erodhin. 

42 . 

Kilaka. 

4j- 

Jaunty a. 

47 - 

PramMin 

4 y, 

Yikjrantfu 

KiXlayukta. 

53- 

SiddliEirtLia. 

S7* 

Afigiir a. 

5«- 

Itaktrlkeha (7| 


34- 

£srvart (7), 

33- 

Flara. 

39> 

Visv&vastu 

40 . 

ParilvasLU 

44 . 

Had bfirana. 

Rodbaknt. 

49 . 

KdksLiaaa. 

5 n - 

An ala. 

34+ 

Ruudra. 

55- 

D urn nits. 

$ 9 * 

Krodha. 

60 . 

Kshnyn. 


ALBBRUNTS INDIA . 


CHAPTER LXIL 


129 

This is the method for the determination of the Pago 267. 
years of the xh&sMyabda t as recorded in their hooks. 
However* I have Seen Hindus who subtract 3 from 
the era of Y'fkramaditya, and divide the remainder 
by 60. The remainder they count off from the begin- 
ning of the great yuga. This method is not worth 
anything, By- the- bye, it is the same whether you 
reckon in the manner mentioned, or add \2 to the 
Sakakala. 

I have come across some people from the conn try t hesoMmt- 
of Krinoj who told me that., with them, the cycle of 
samvatsw&s has 1248 years, each single one of the 
twelve mmvatmrffi having 104 years. According to 
this statement we must subtract 554 from the Hakakalu* 
and with the remainder compare the following diagram. 

I11 the corresponding column you see in which savirat- 
sam the year in question Lies, and how many years of 
the sarnvrdmra have already elapsed : — 


people o£ 
ELauoJ. 


The years 

1, 

105. 

2 <X) P 


417. 

521, 

Their j 

names 

KukmAk.^m. 

m 

Plhimant. 

l») 

Radam, 

KAhivrintri. 

KiLiLjTiijnd. 

w 

Mem r 

The year* 

625. 

— 

729, 


937 - 


1 x 45 ‘ 

TfteSr ( 

uamesi. 

Barham. 

iTamhu H 

Krith 

Snrpr*. 

HindLu. 

Sindhii. 


When I h ear d , an 1 ong th e se p rate nded 11 am es of 1 m - 
vatsaro,% names of nations, trees, and mountains, I con- 
ceived a suspicion of my reporters, more particularly 
as their chief business was indeed to practise hocus- 
pocus and deception (as jugglers ?) ; and a dyed beard 
proves its bearer to be a liar. I used great care in 
examining every single one of them* in repeating the 
same questions at different times, in a different order 
and context. But lo l what different answers did I get ! 
God is all-wise ! 

VOL. II. 


I 


( 13 ° ) 


CffAPTGK LXTIL 

OK THAT WHICH ESPECIALLY CONCERNS THE BRAHMANS, 
AND WHAT TITKY A HE OBLIGED TO DO DURING THEIR 
WHOLE LIRE. 

Hi'jst iwi-Lod Tiie life of the Brahman, after seven years of it have 
ImtiiSiifcI 11 passed, is divided into four parts. The first part begins 
with the eighth year, when the Brahmans come to him 
to instruct him, to teach him his dirties, and to enjoin 
him to adhere to them and to embrace them as long as 
he lives. Then they bind a girdle round his waist and 
invest him with a pair of ymnopavU^, ix. one strong 
cord consisting of nine single cords which are twisted 
together, and with a third yajnopgvUa, a single one 
made from cloth. This girdle runs from the left 
shoulder to the right hip. Further, he is presented 
with a stick which he has to wear, and with a seal- 
ring of a certain grass, called darhha, which lie wears on 
the ring- linger of the right hand* This seal-ring is also 
called p&viira. The object of his wearing the ring on 
the ring-ihiger of his right hand is this, that it should 
be a good omen and a blessing for all those who receive 
gifts from that hand. The obligation of wearing the 
ricg is not quite so stringent as that of wearing the 
■yajnopiWUa, for from the latter be is not to separate 
himself under any circumstances whatever. If he 
takes it off while eating or fulfilling some want of 
nature, he thereby commits a sin which cannot be 
PA0a.36k wiped off save by some work of expiation, fasting, or 
almsgiving. 


CHAPTER LX III. 


This first period of the Brahman's life extends J ill the 
twenty-fifth year of his age, or, according to the- Vishnu- 
Purdna, till his forty-eighth year. His duty is to prac- 
tise abstinence, to make the earth his bed. to begin with 
the learning of the Veda and of its explanation, of the 
science of theology and law, all this being taught to him 
by a master whom he serves day and night. He washes 
himself thrice a day, and performs a sacrifice to the fire 
both at the beginning and end of the day. After the 
sacrifice he worships his master. He fasts a day and he 
breaks fast a day. but he is never allowed to eat meat. 
He dwells in the house of the master, which he only leaves 
in order to ask for a gift and to beg in not more than 
five houses once a day, either at noon or in the evening. 
Whatever alms he receives he places before his master 
to choose from it what he likes. Then the master 
allows him to take the remainder* Thus the pupil 
nourishes himself from the remains of the dishes of 
his master. Further, he fetches the wood for the fire, 
wood of two kinds of trees, pahhkt ( Bidea front lorn) 
and darbha, in order to perform the sacrifice \ for the 
Hindus highly venerate the fire, and offer flowers to it. 
It is the same case with all other nations. They 
always thought that the sacrifice was accepted by the 
deity if the fire came down upon, it, and no other 
worship has been able to draw them away from it, 
neither the worship of idols nor that of stars, cows, 
asses, or images. Therefore Eashshar Ibn Burd says : 
“ Since there m fire, it is worshipped.” 

The second period of their life extends from the twenty- 
fifth year till the fiftieth, or, according to the Vishnu-P^r- 
da a , ti 1 1 th e s e ventieth . The m aste r all u w s hi m to m arry . 
Hi- marries, establishes a household, and intends to have 
descendants j but he cohabits with his wife only once in 
a month after she has become clean of the menstruation. 
He is not allowed to marry a woman above twelve years 
of age< He gains his sustenance either by the fee lie 


SciMJI Hi 
(Kirkid in 
U rn.-l Lttu\i i 

life. 


A LB BRUNTS INDIA. 


769, 


Tlit: third 
period. 


obtains for teaching Brahmans and Ksbatriyas, not as 
a payment, but a s a present, or by presents which be 
receives from some one because he performs for him 
the sacrifices to the fire, or by ashing a gift from the 
kings and nobles, there being no importunate pressing 
on his part-, and no unwillingness cm the part of the 
giver, Thera is always a Brahman in the houses of 
those people, who there administers the affairs of reli- 
gion and the works of piety. Da is called ^nrohMa* 
Lastly, the Brahman lives from what he gathers on the 
earth or from the trees. He may try his fortune in the 
trade of clothes and betel-nuts, but it is preferable that 
he should not trade himself, and that a Vaisya should 
do the business for him, because originally trade is for- 
bidden on account of the deceiving and lying which 
are mixed np with it. Trading is permitted to him 
only in case of dire necessity, when he has 110 other 
moans of sustenance. The Brahmans arc not, like the 
other castes, bound to pay taxes and to perform services 
to the kings. Further, he is. not allowed continually to 
busy himself with horses and cows, with the care for 
the cattle, nor with gaining by usury, The blue colour 
is impure for hi m, so that if it touches his body, he Is 
obliged to wash himself* Lastly, he must always beat 
the drum before the fire, and recite for It the prescribed 
holy texts. 

The third period of the life of the Brahman extends 
from the fiftieth year to the seventy-fifth, or, according 
to the Vwkmt-P itrd ria, till the ninetieth, lie practises 
abstinence, leaves his household, and hands it as well 
as his wife over to his children, if the latter does not 
prefer to accompany him into the life in the wilderness. 
He dwells outride civilisation, and leads the same life 
again which he led in the first period. He does not 
take shelter tinder a roof, nor wear any other dress but 
some bark of a tree, simply sufficient to cover Ms loins. 
He sleeps on the earth without any bed, and only 


CH AFTER LX III. 133 

nourishes himself by fruit, vegetables, and roots, lie 
lots tbs hair grow long, and does not anoint himself 
with oil. 

The fourth period extends till the end of life. Ho 
wears a red garment and holds a stick in his hand. 
He is always given to meditation ; he strips the mind 
of friendship and enmity } and roots out desire, and 
lust, and wrath, lie does not converse with anybody 
at all. When walking to a place of a particular merit, 
in order to gain a heavenly reward, he does not stop on 
the road in a village longer than a day, nor in a city 
longer than five days. If any one gives him something, 
he does not leave a remainder of it for the following 
day. He has no other business but that of oaring 
for the path which leads to salvation, and for reaching 
moLdta, whence there is no return to this world. 

The universal duties of the Brahman throughout his 
whole life are works of piety, giving alms and receiving 
them. For that which the Brahmans give reverts to 
the pit-arm (is in reality a. benefit to the F&tk-m)* He 
must continually read, perform the sacrifices, take care 
of the lire which he lights, oifer before it, worship it, 
and preserve it from being extinguished, that he may 
be burned by it after his death. It is called homa. 

Every day he must wash himself thrice: at the 
mrhdhi of rising, i.e. morning dawn, at the mmJM of 
setting, i.e * evening twilight, and between them in the 
middle of the day. The first washing is on account of 
sleep, because the openings of the body have become 
lax during it. Washing is a cleansing from accidental 
impurity and a preparation for prayer. 

Their prayer consists of praise, glorification, and pros- 
tration according to their peculiar manner, viz. pros- 
trating themselves on the two thumbs, whilst the two 
palms of the hands are joined, and they turn their faces 
towards the slid. For the sun is their JMla, wherever 
he may be, except when in the south. For they do not 


TJ10 fourth 
period. 


Tlift duties 
of Brali riijin 
In gtsuond. 


'34 


A LB ER UNI'S INDIA . 


perform any work of piety with the face turned south- 
ward \ only when occupied with something evil and 
unlucky they turn themselves towards the south. 

The time when the sun declines from the meridian 
(the afternoon) is well suited for acquiring in it a 
heavenly reward. Therefore at this time the Brahman 
must be clean. 

The evening is the time of supper and of prayer, 
r lhe Brahman may take his supper and pray without 
having previously washed himself.. Therefore, evidently, 
the rule as to the third washing is not as stringent as 
that relating to the first- and second washings. 

A nightly washing is obligatory for the Brahman 
only at the times of eclipses, that he should be pre- 
pared to perform the rules and sacrifices prescribed for 
that occasion. 

The B rah man t as long as he lives, eats only twice a 
day, at noon and at nightfall ; and when he wants to 
taka his meal* lie begins by putting aside as much as 
[■ igc ? 7 o, is sufficient for one or two men as alms, especially for 
strange Brahmans who happen to come at evening- 
time asking for something. To neglect their mainten- 
ance would be a great sin. Further, he puts something 
aside for the cattle, the birds, and the fire. Over the 
remainder he says prayers and eats it. The remainder 
of his dish he places outside his house, and does not any 
more come near it, as it is no longer allowable for him, 
being destined for the chance passer-by who wants it, 
be h« a man, bird, dog, or something else. 

The Brahman must have a water- vessel for himself. 
If another one uses it, it is broken. The same remark 
applies to his eating- instruments, I have seen Brah- 
mans who allowed their relatives to eat with them from 
the same plate* but most of them disapprove of this. 

He is obliged to dwell between the river Sindh in 
the north and the river Carman vati in the south. He 
is not allowed to cross either of these frontiers so as 


CHAPTER LXIIL 


135 


to enter the country of the Turks or of the Kavmta. 
Further, ha must live between the ocean In the east 
and west. People say that he Is not allowed to stay- 
in a country in which the grass which he wears on 
the ring-finger does not grow, nor the black-haired 
gazelles graze. This is a description for the whole 
country within the just -mentioned boundaries. If he 
passes beyond them he commits a sin. 

In a country where not the whole spot in the house 
which is prepared for people to eat upon it is plastered 
with clay, where they, on the contrary, prepare a sepa- 
rate tablecloth for each person eating by pouring wafer 
over a spot and plastering It. with the dung of cows, 
the shape of the B rah maids tablecloth must be square « 
Those who have the custom of preparing such table- 
cloths give the following as the cause of this custom : 
— -The spot of eating is soiled by the eating. If the 
eating is finished, the spot is washed and plastered to 
become clean again. If, now, the soiled spot is not 
distinguished by a separate mark, yon would suppose 
also the other spots to be soiled, since they are similar 
to and cannot be distinguished from each other. 

Five vegetables are forbidden to them by the reli- 
gious code : — Onions, garlic* a kind of gourd, the root of 
a plant like the carrots called kr?im (?), and another 
vegetable which grows round their tanks called ndH. 


( 1 36 ) 


Crf 

tLiO 


l a HgC 271. 


CHAPTER LXIV. 

ON TEE EIT.ES AND CUSTOMS WHICH THE OTHER CASTES, 
BESIDES THE BRAHMANS, PRACTISE DURING THEIR 
LIFETIME. 

The Kshatriya reads the Veda and learns it, but does 
not tench it. Ha o iters to the fire and acts according 
to the rules of the Farinas. In places where, as we 
have mentioned (v, p* 1 35), a tablecloth is prepared 
for eating, he makes it angular. lie rides the people 
and defends them, for he is created for this task. Ile- 
girds hhnself with a single cord of the threefold ynj&Q- 
pmMa y and a single other cord of cotton. This takes 
place after he has finished the twelfth year of his life. 

It is the duty of the Yaisya to practise agriculture 
and to cultivate the land, to tend the cattle and to 
remove the needs of the Brahmans. He is only allowed 
to gird himself with a single yajnop&mta, which is made 
of two cords. 

The Sudra is like a servant to the .Brahman, taking 
care of his affairs and serving him. If, though being 
poor in the extreme, he still desires not to be without 
a yajnapa-i'UcL ho girds himself only with the linen one. 
Every action which is considered as the privilege of a 
Brahman, such as saying prayers, the recitation of the 
Veda, and offering sacrifices to the fire, is forbidden to 
him* to such a degree that when, tJj. a Siidra or a Vaisya 
is proved to have recited the Veda, he is accused by the 
Bralmians before the ruler, and the latter will order his 
tongue to be cut off. However, the meditation on God, 


CHAPTER LX IV, 137 

works of piety, and almsgiving are not forbidden to 

him. 

Every man who takes to some occupation which is 
not allowed to bis caste, as, e.g. a Brahman to trade, a 
Sudra to agriculture 3 commits a sin or crime, which 
they consider only a little less than the crime of theft 

The following is one of the traditions of the Hindus: 
— In the days of King llama human life was very long, 
always of a well- defined and well-known length. Thus 
a child never died before its father. Then, however, 
it happened that the son of a Brahman died while the 
father was still alive. Now the Brahman brought his 
child to the door of the king and spoke to him ; if This 
innovation has sprung up in thy days for no other 
reason but this, that there is something rotten in the 
state of the country, and because a certain Vazir com- 
mits in thy realm what he commits A Then Hama 
began to inquire into the cause of this, and finally they 
pointed out to him a Can d ala who took the greatest 
pains in performing worship and in self-torment. The 
king rode to him and found him on the banks of the 
Ganges, hanging on something with his head down- 
ward. The king bent his bow, shot at him, and pierced 
his bowels. Then he spoke: “That is it! I kill thee 
on account of a good action which thou art not allowed 
to do,” When he returned home, he found the son of 
the Brahman, who bad been deposited before his door, 
alive. 

All other men except the Cand&la, as far as they are 
not Hindus, arc called mteedha. i r e, unclean, all those 
who kill men and slaughter animals and oat the flesh 
of cows. 

All these things originate in the difference of the 
classes or castes, one set of people treating the others 
as fools* This apart-, all men are equal to each other, 
as Vasudeva says regarding him who seeks salvation : 
“I11 the judgment of the intelligent man, the Brahman 


Story of 
King Ritrnn, 
tiie CanipUn 
LlClll the 
Bmtnnati. 


Philosophic 

iipinkii 

about, all 
things being 
eqiml. 


A LB BRUNTS INDIA . 


138 

and the Candaia are equal, the friend and the foe, the 
faithful and the deceitful, nay, even the serpent and 
the weasel. If to the eyes of intelligence all things 
are equal, to ignorance they appear as separated and 
different/* 

Ylsndeva speaks to Arjnna: ,c If the civilisation of 
the world is that which Is intended, and if the direc- 
tion of it cannot proceed without our fighting for the 
purpose of suppressing evil, it is the duty of us who 
are the intelligent to act and to hglit 5 not in order to 
bring to an end that which is deficient within ns, but 
because it is necessary for the purpose of healing what 
is ill and banishing destructive elements. Then the 
ignorant imitate us in acting, as the children imitate 
their elders, without their knowing the real aim and 
purport of actions. For their nature has an aversion to 
intellectual methods, and they use force only in order 
to act in accordance with the- influences of lust and 
passion on their senses* In all this, the intelligent and 
educated man is directly the contrary of them.” 


( *39 ) 


CHAPTER LX?. 

ON TIIE SACRIFICES, 

Most of the Veda treats of t-lie sacrifices to the fire, 
and describes each one of therm They are different in 
extent, so that certain of them can only be performed 
by the greatest of their kings- So, e.g. the a&vamedka* AiTumediw* 
A mare is let freely to wander about in the country 
grazing, without anybody's hindering her* Soldiers 
follow her, drive her, and cry out before her: <f She is 
the king of the world. He who does not agree, let him 
come forward. 1 ' The Brahmans walk behind her and 
perform sacrifices to the fire where she casts dung. 

When site thus has wandered about through all parts 1^ 273. 
of the world, she becomes food for the Brahmans and 
for him whose property she is. 

Further, the sacrifices differ in duration, so that only 
he could perform certain of them who lives a very long 
life \ and such long lives do no longer occur in this 
our age* Therefore most of them have been abolished, 
and only few of them remain and are practised now- 
adays* 

According to the Hindus, the lire eats everything, on lire- 
Therefore it becomes defiled, if anything unclean is general, 
mixed up with it, as, e.g. water* Accordingly they are 
very punctilious regarding fire and water if they are in 
the hands of non-Hindus, because they are defiled by 
being touched by them. 

That which the fire eats for its share, reverts to the 
Dev as, because the lire comes out of their mouths. 


Story of the 
flnu becom- 
ing lenrOUB 
from Pi$hnu~ 

JJftflfltML 


Mo ALBBRUNfS INDIA. 

What the Brahmans present to the lire to eat is oil and 
different cereals — wheat, barley, and rice — which they 
throw into the fire. Further, they recite- the prescribed 
texts of the Veda in case they offer on their own behalf. 
However, if they offer in the name of somebody else, 
they do not recite anything. 

The Fishfm-IJharma mentions the following tradi- 
tion : — On co upon a time there- was a man of the class 
of the Dolby as, powerful and brave, the ruler of a wide 
realm called iliranyaksha. Fie had a daughter of the 
name of JJkish (?), who was always bent upon worship 
and trying herself by fasting arid abstinence. Thereby 
she had earned as reward a place in heaven, ^he was 
married to MahMeva, When he, then, was alone with 
her and did with her according to the custom of the 
Devas, i.c. cohabiting very long and transferring the 
semen very slowly, the fire became aware of it. and be- 
came jealous, fearing lest the two might procreate a lire 
similar to themselves. Therefore it determined to defile 
and to ruin them. 

When MaMdeva saw the fire, bis forehead became 
covered with sweat from the violence of his wrath, so 
that some of It dropped down to the earth* The earth 
drank it, and became in consequence pregnant with 
Mars* £.e> Slcanda, the commander of the army of the 
Devas. 

Rndra, the destroyer, seized a drop of the semm of 
Mah fide va and threw it away* It was scattered in the 
interior of the earth, and represents ail atom -like sub- 
stances (?). 

The fire, however, became leprous, and felt so much 
ashamed and confounded that it plunged down into 
pM&Ia-* itf* the lowest earth. As, now, the Devas missed 
the fire, they went out to search for it. 

First, the frogs pointed it out to them. The fire, on 
seeing the Devas, left its place and concealed itself Iri 
the tree asmMJm> laying a curse on the frogs, that they 


CHA PTER LX V. 


141 


should have a horrid croaking and be odious to all 
others. 

Next, the parrots betrayed to the Osyas the hiding- 
place of the fire. Thereupon the fire c arsed them, that 
their tongues should be turned topsy-turvy, that their 
root should be where its tip ought to be. But the 
Devas spoke to them : <£ If your tongue is turned topsy- 
turvy h you shall speak in human dwellings and eat 
delicate things.” 

The fire fled from the aA-mUka tree to the tree mmi. 
Thereupon the elephant gave a hint to the Devas re- 
garding its hiding-place. Now if cursed the elephant 
that his tongue should bo turned topsy-turvy. But 
then the Devas spoke to him : “If your tongue is 
turned topsy-turvy, you shall participate with man in 
his victuals and understand Ids speech/* 

At last they hit upon the fire, but the fire refused 
to stay with them because it was leprous* Now the 
Devas restored it to health, and freed it from the 
leprosy. The Devas brought back to them the fire 
with all honour and made it; a mediator between them- 
selves and mankind, receiving from the latter the 
shares which they offer to the Devas, and making these 
shares reach them. 


( M3 } 


CHAPTER LXVL 

ON PUJ 3 -HBUGK AND T]im VISITING OF SACKED PLACES. 

273. Pilgrimages are not obligatory to the Hindus, but 
facultative, and meritorious* A man sets ofT to wander 
to some holy region, to some much venerated idol or to 
so in e of tli e h oly ri v ers . He wo rsl dps i ti tli em , worsli i p a 
the idol, makes presents to it, recites many hymns and 
prayers, fasts, and gives alms to the Brahmans, the 
priests j and others. lie shaves the hair of his head 
and beard, and returns home. 

The holy much venerated ponds are in the cold 
mountains round Mem. The following information 
regarding them is found in both the Vdyu and the 
ifaisi/a Pur dims : — 

au uidrart u At the foot of Mem there is Arhata (?}, a very great 
pond, described as shining like the moon. In it ongi- 
MidjSSflja na tes the river Zanba {? Jam bn), which is very pure, 
rumn^, flowing over the purest gold. 

" Near the mountain Sveta there is the pond Uttara- 
munasa, and around it twelve other ponds, each of them 
]ike a lake. Thence come the two rivers Saudi (?) and 
Maddhyiuidil (?), which (low to Kiihpizrusha. 

Near the mountain Nil a there is the pond pyv d 
pi tan da ?) adorned with lotuses. 

“ Near the mountain Nishadha there is the pond Yish- 
rmpada, whence comes the river Sarasvafi, %,e, Sarsuth 
Besides, the river Gandharvi comes from there, 

“In the mountain KaiMsa there is the pond Man da, 
as large as a sea, whence comes the river Mandfikini, 


CHAPTER LX VI. 


T43 


i( North-east of Kail&sa there is the. mountain Can- 
draparyata, and at its foot the pond Acfid (?), whence 
comes the river AcikL 

<E South-east of Kail as a there is the mountain Lohita. 
and at its foot a pond called Lohita. Thence comes 
the river Lohitanadb 

is (South of Kail fisa there is the mountain Sarayiriati(?), 
and at its foot the pond Mfinasa, Thence comes the 
river Harayfu 

“West of Kailasa there is the mountain Aruna, 
always covered with snow, which cannot be ascended. 

At its foot is the pond Sail odd, whence comes the 
liver Saii&da. 

£: North of Kailusa there is the mountain Gaura (?), 
and at its foot the pond C-n-d-sara (?), -Lc. having 
golden sand r Near this pond the King Rhagiratha led 
his anchorite life. 

“H is stoiy is as follows: — A king of the Hindus atoiyof 
called Sagara had 60,000 sons, all of them bad, mean 
fellows. Once they happened to lose a horse. They 
at once searched for It, and in searching they continu- 
ally ran about so violently that in consequence the 
surface of the earth broke in. They found the horse in 
the interior of the earth standing before a man who 
was looking down with deep-sunken eyes. When 
they came near him he smote them with his look, 
in consequence of which they were burned on the 
spot and went to hell on account of their wicked 
actions. 

“The collapsed part of the earth became a sea, the 
great ocean, A king of the descendants of that king, 
called Bhagiratha. on hearing the history of his ances- 
tors, was much affected thereby. He went to the 
above-mentioned pond, the bottom of which was 
polished gold, and stayed there, fasting all day and a + . 
worshipping during the nights. Finally, MahMeva 
asked him what he wanted; upon which he answered, 


144 


A LEE RUN PS INDIA. 


On ll iu bun - 
atmctioa u i 
lluJy pundn. 


"I want the river Ganges which flows in Paradise,' 
knowing that to any one over whom its water Hows 
all his sins are pardoned. Mahadeva granted him 
his desire. However, the Milky Way was the bed 
of the Ganges, and the Ganges was very haughty j 
for nobody had ever been able to stand against it. 
Now Mahadeva took the Ganges and put it on his 
head. When the Ganges could not move away, he 
became very angry and made a great uproar. How- 
ever, Mahadeva held him firmly, so that it was not 
possible for anybody to plunge into it. Then lie took 
part of the Ganges and gave it to Bbagiratha, and this 
king made the middle one of its seven branches flow 
over the bones of his ancestors, whereby they became 
liberated from punishment. Therefore the Hindus 
throw the burned bones of their dead into the Ganges* 
The Ganges was also called by the name of that king 
who brought him to earth, i,e. Bhagtratha." 

We have already quoted Hindu traditions to the 
effect that in the Dvlpas there are rivers as holy as the 
Ganges. In every place to which some particular holi- 
ness is ascribed, the Hindus construct ponds intended 
for the ablutions. In this they have attained to a very 
high degree of art, so that our people (the Muslims), 
when they see them, wonder at them, and are unable 
to describe them, much less to construct anything like 
them. They build them of great stones of an enor- 
mous bulk, joined to each other by sharp and strong 
cramp-irons, in the- form, of steps (or terraces) like so 
many ledges ; and these terraces run all around the 
pond, reaching to a height of more than a man’s stature. 
On the surface of the stones between two terraces they 
construct staircases rising like pinnacles. Thus the 
first steps or terraces are like roads (leading round 
the pond), and the pinnacles are steps (leading up and 
down). If ever so many people descend to the pond 
whilst others ascend, they do not meet each other, and 


CHAPTER LX VI. 


145 


the road is never blocked up, because there are so many 
terraces, and the ascending person can always turn 
aside to another terrace than that on which the descend- 
ing people go. By this arrangement all troublesome 
thronging is avoided. 

In Multan there is a pond in which the Hindus 
worship by bathing themselves, if they are not pre- 
vented. 

The SayJtJdld of Varaharmhira relates that in Tune- 
shar there is a pond which the Hindus visit from afar 
to bathe in its water. Regarding the cause of this 
custom they relate the following; — The waters of all 
the other holy ponds visit this particular pond at the 
time of an eclipse. Therefore, if a man washes in it, 
it is as if be had washed in every single one of all of 
them* Then Varabamibira continues : cc People say, if 
it were not the head (apsis) which causes the eclipse 
of sun and moon, the other ponds would not visit this 
pond.” 

The ponds become particularly famous for holiness 
either because some important event lias happened at 
them, or because there is some passage in the holy 
text or tradition which refers to them. We have 
already quoted words spoken by ftarmaka* Venus had 
related them to him oil the authority of Brahman, to 
whom they had originally been addressed. In this text 
King Bali also is mentioned, and what he would do till 
the time when Narayana would plunge him down to 
the lowest earth. In the same text occurs the follow- 
ing passage: — "I do that to him only for this purpose 
that the equality between men, which ho desires to 
realise, shall be done away with, that men shall be 
different in their conditions of life, and that on this 
difference the order of the world is to be based ; further, 
that people shall turn away from his worship and 
worship me and believe in me. The mutual assistance 
of civilised people presupposes a certain difference 

VOL. II. K 


On ETITl yl D 
holy pondBi 


On the in- 
eqn&Uty 4 
created 
beluga and 

tbe Mfi.ijiti uf 

pHtraojiaia, 
A tradition 
from 
uafcn. 

EH r e 275. 


On J3criaine$ 
an an 
aaylmn. 


t 46 A L BE R UNTS INDIA . 

among them* in consequence of which the one requires 
the other. According to the same principle, (!od has 
created the world as containing many differences in 
It. self. Ho the single countries differ from each other, 
one being cold* the other warm ; one having good 
soil, water, and air, the other having bitter salt soil, 
dirty and bad smelling water, and unhealthy air. 
There are still more differences of this kind ; in seine 
cases advantages of all kinds being numerous* in others 
few. In some parts there are periodically return- 
ing physical disasters ; in others they are entirely 
unknown. All these things induce civilised people 
carefully to select the places where they want- to build 
towns* 

Tli at which makes people do these tilings is usage 
and custom. However, religious commands are much 
more powerful, and influence much more the nature of 
man than usages! and customs. The bases of the latter 
are investigated, explored, and accordingly either kept 
or abandoned* whilst the bases of the religious com- 
mands are left as they are* not inquired into, adhered 
to by the majority simply on trust. They do not argue 
over them, as the inhabitants of some sterile region do 
not argue over it, since they are born in it and do not 
know anything else, for they love the country as their 
fatherland, and hnd it difficult to leave it.. If, now, 
besides physical differences, the countries differ from 
each other also in law and religion, there is so much 
attachment to it in the hearts of those who live in them 
that it can never be rooted out*” 

The Hindus have some places which are venerated 
for reasons connected with their law and religion, e*g. 
Benares (Bar a nasi). For their anchorites wander to it 
and stay there for ever, as the dwellers of the Ka'ba 
stay for ever in Mekka, They want to live there to 
the end of their lives, that their reward after death 
should be the better for it. They say that a murderer 


CHAPTER LX VI. 


T47 


is held responsible for Ms crime and punished with a 
punishment due to his guilt, except in case he enters 
the city of Benares, where he obtains pardon. Regard- 
ing the cause of the holiness of this asylum they relate 
the following story : — 

“Brahman was in shape four-headed „ Now there 
happened some quarrel between him and Sarhkara* id* 
Malt fide v a, and the succeeding fight bad this result, 
that one of the heads of Brahman was torn off. At 
that time it was the custom that the victor took the 
head, of the slain adversary in his hand and let it hang 
down from his hand as an act of ignominy to the dead 
and as a sign of his own bravery. Further] a bridle was 
put into the mouth (?), Thus the head of Brahman was 
dishonoured by the hand of AlabMeva, who took it 
always with him wherever he went and whatever he 
diet lie never once separated himself from it when he 
entered the towns, till at last he came to Benares, After 
he had entered Benares the head dropped from his hand 
and disappeared,” 

A similar place is Fiikara, the story of which is this : 
Brahman once was occupied in offering there to the 
fire, when a pig dime out of the fire. Therefore they 
represent his image there as that of a pig. Outside 
the town, in throe places > they have constructed ponds 
which stand in high veneration, and are places of 
worship. 

Another place of the kind is Tftneshar, also called 
Kurxikskeira, ie. the land of Kuril, who was a peasant, 
a pious, holy man, who worked miracles by divine 
power. Therefore the country was called after him* 
and venerated for his sake. Besides* Tuneshar is the 
theatre of the exploits of Yfisudeva in the wars of 
Hharata and of the destruction of the evil-doers. It is 
for this reason that people visit the place. 

M ah lira, too, is a holy place, crowded with Brahmans. 


Oil the hflJy 
ptinde of 
Pftkrim, 
Tlnoftha]*, 

Kashmir, 
and Multan, 


ALBERUNPS INDIA, 


14S 

p.itfo 276. It h venerated because V&sndeva was there born and 
brought up, in a place in the neighbourhood called 
Nandagola. 

Nowadays the Hindus also visit. Kashmir, lastly, 
they used to visit Multan before its idol -temple was 
destroyed. 


( 149 ) 


CHAPTER LX VII. 

ON ALMS, AND HOW A MAN MUST SPEND WHAT HE 
EARNS. 

It If. obligatory with them every d av to give alms as 
much as possible. They do not let money become a 
year or even a month old, for this won Id be a draft on 
an unknown future, of which a man does not know 
whether he reaches it or not. 

With regard to that which he earns by the crops or 
from the cattle, he is lion ml first to pay to the ruler of 
the country the tax which attaches to the soil or the 
pasture-ground. Further, he pays him oner-sixth of the 
income in recognition of the protection winch he affords 
to the subjects, their property, and their families. The 
same obligation rests also on the common people, but 
they will always lie and cheat in the declarations about 
their property. Further, trading businesses, too, pay a 
tribute for the same reason. Only the Brahmans are 
exempt from all these taxes. 

As to the way in which the remainder of the income, 
after the taxes have been deducted, is to be employed, 
th e re are di ff erent opin ions, Some de. stin e one-ninth of 
it for alma For they divide it into three parts. One of 
then i is kept in reserve to guarantee the heart against 
anxiety. The second is spent on trade to bring profit, 
and one-third of the third portion (s.e. one-ninth of the 
whole) is spent on alms, whilst the two other thirds are 
spout- according to the same rule. 

Others divide this income into four portions. One- 


A LEE RUNTS INDIA . 


igo 

fourth is destined for common expense®, the second for 
liberal works of a noble mind, the third for alms, and 
the fourth for being kept in reserve, not more of 
it than the common expenses for three years. If the 
quarter which is to be reserved exceeds this amount, 
only this amount is reserved, whilst the remainder is 
spent as alms. 

Usury or taking percentages is forbidden. The sin 
which a man commits thereby corresponds to the 
amount by which the percentages have increased the 
capital stock. Only to the ft hdr a is it allowed to take 
percentage^ as long as his profit is not more than one- 
fiftieth of the capital (i.e. he is not to take more than 
two per cent.). 


( 1 ST ) 


on AFTER LXVm, 

ON- WIIAT IS ALLOWED AND FORBIDDEN IN EATING 
AND DRINKING. 

ORIGINALLY killing in general waft forbidden to them, 
as it is to the Christians and Manichseans. People, 
however, have the desire for meat, and will always 
Hing aside every order to the contrary. Therefore the 
here-mentioned law applies in particular only to the 
B rah mans, because they are the guardians of the reli- 
gion, and because it forbids them to give way to their 
lusts, The same rule applies to those members of the 
Christian clergy who are in rank above the bishops, 
viz. the metropolitans, the mtholid, and the patriarchs, 
not to the lower grades, such as presbyter and deacon, 
except in the case that a man who holds one of these 
degrees is at the same time a monk, 

As matters stand thus, it is allowed to kill animals by 
means of strangulation, but only certain animals, others 
being excluded. The meat of such animals, the killing of 
which is allowed, is forbidden in case they die a sudden 
death. Animals the killing of which is allowed are 
sheep, goats, gazelles, hares, rhinoceroses Q/andha), the 
buffaloes, fish, water and land birds, as sparrows, ring- 
doves, franco! ins, doves, peacocks, and other animals 
which are not loathsome to man nor noxious. 

That which is forbidden are cows, horses, mules, 
asses, camels, elephants, tame poultry, crows, parrots, 
nightingales, all kinds of eggs and wine* The latter is 


T.i&t o i Litri- 

ijiaLhi j:i7V]i;.L 
and unlaw- 
ful to be 
eaten. 


Fa^n T77. 


"Why the 
■meat of 

C4JWB 

forbidd cjl 


J 52 A LEER UNI'S INDIA , 

allowed to the Slid r a. He may drink it, but. dare not 
ael.1 it, as he is not allowed to sell meat 

Some Hindus say that in the time before EM.rata it 
was allowed to eat the meat of cows, and that there 
then existed sacrifices part of which was the killing of 
cows. After that time, however, it had been forbidden 
on account of the weakness of men, who were too weak 
to fulfil their duties, as also the Veda, which originally 
was only one, was afterwards divided into four parts* 
simply for the purpose of facilitating the study of it to 
men- This theory > however, is very little substantiated, 
as the prohibition of the meat of cows is not an alle- 
viating and less strict measure, but, on the contrary, 
one which is more severe and more restrictive than the 
former law- 

Other Hindus told me that the 13 rah mans used to 
suffer from the eating of cows" meat. For their country 
is hot, the inner parts of the bodies are cold, the natural 
warmth becomes feeble in them, and the power of 
digestion is so weak that they must strengthen it by 
eating the leaves of lekl after dinner, and by chewing 
the bet el -nut- The hot betel inflames the heat of the 
body, the chalk on the betel -leaves dries up everything 
wet, and the betel-nut acts as an astringent on the 
teeth, the gums* and the stomach. As this is the case, 
they forbade eating cows 5 meat, because it is essentially 
thick and cold. 

I, for my part, am uncertain, and hesitate in the 
question of the origin of this custom between two 
different views, 

(Lamna in the viamistripi.) 

As for the economical reason, we must keep in mind 
that the cow is the animal which serves man in travel- 
ling by carrying his loads , in agriculture in the works 
of ploughing and sowing, in the household by the milk 
and the product made thereof. Further, man makes 
use of its dung, and in winter-time even of its breath. 


CHAPTER LXVIIL 


*53 

Therefore it was forbidden to eat cows’ meat ; as also 
Alh ajjkj forbade it, when people complained to him 
that Babylonia became more and more desert. 

I have been told the following passage is from an iWsii 
Indian book : “All things are one, and whether allowed equal fi™ a 
or forbidden, equal. They differ only in weakness and raipdSiUr 
power. The wolf has the power to tear the sheep ; 
therefore the sheep is the wolf’s food, for the former 
cannot oppose the latter, and is his prey,” 1 have 
found in Hindu books passages to the same effect. 
However, such views come to the intelligent man only 
by knowledge, when in it he has attained to such a 
degree that a Brahman and a Candida are equal to him. 

If he is in this state, all other things also are equal to 
him. in so far as he abstains from them,. It is the same 
if they are a LI allowed to him, for he can dispense with 
them, or if they are forbidden to him, for he does not 
desire them. As to those, however, who require these 
tilings, being in the yoke of ignorance, something is 
allowed to them, something forbidden, and thereby a 
wall is erected between the two kinds of things, 


( > 54 ) 


NceoEsiby of 
matrimony. 




Law of 
rmtrs'ULtre. 


CHAPTER LXIX, 

ON MATRIMONY, HUE MENSTRUAL COURSES, EMBBY0S, 
AND CHILDBED, 

No nation can exist without a regular married life, 
for it prevents the uproar of passions abhorred by 
thu cultivated mind, and it removes all those causes 
which excite the animal to a fury always leading to 
harm. Considering the life of the animals by pairs, 
how the one member of the pair helps the other, and 
how the lust of other animals of the same species is 
kept aloof from thern^ yon cannot help declaring matri- 
mony to be a necessary institution ; whilst disorderly 
col labita ti o n or li ariot ry o 11 th e part of 1 1 1 a n i s a sh a m e- 
ful proceeding, that does not even attain to the standing 
of the development of animals, which in every other 
respect stand far below him. 

Every nation has particular customs of marriage, 
and especially those who claim to have a religion and 
law of divine origin. The Hindus marry at a very 
young age ; therefore the parents arrange the marriage 
for their sons. On that occasion the Brahmans perform 
the rites of the sacrifices, and they as well as others 
receive aims. The implements of the wedding rejoic- 
ings are brought forward. No gift is settled between 
them. The man gives only a present to the wife, as he 
thinks fit, and a marriage gift in advance, which lie has 
no right to claim back, but the wife may give it back 
to him of her own will. Husband and wife can only 
be separated by death, as they have no divorce. 


CHAPTER LXIX. 


*55 


A man may many one to four wives. He Is not 
allowed to take more than four ; but- if one of his? wives* 
die* he may take another one to complete the legitimate 
number. However, lie must not go beyond It. 

If a wife loses her husband by death, she cannot Ti>e wido^. 
marry another man. She has only to choose between 
two things — either to remain a widow as long as she 
lives or to burn herself ; and the latter eventuality is 
considered the preferable, because as a widow she is 
ill-treated as long as she lives. As regards the wives 
of the kings, they are in the habit of burning them, 
whether they wish it or not. by which they desire to 
prevent any of them by chance committing something 
unworthy of the illustrious husband. They make an 
exception only for women of advanced years and for 
those who have children \ for the son is the responsible 
protector of his mother. 

According to their marriage law it is better to marry 
a stranger than a relative. The more distant the rela- manage, 
tiouship of a woman with regard to her husband the 
better. It is absolutely forbidden to marry related 
women both of the direct descending line, via. a grand- 
daughter or great-granddaughter, and of the direct 
ascending line, vb. a mother, grandmother, or great- 
grandmother. It is also forbidden to marry collateral 
relations, viz. a sister, a niece, a maternal or paternal 
aunt and their daughters, except in case the couple of 
relations who want to marry each other be removed 
from each other by five consecutive generations. In 
that case the prohibition is waived, but, notwith- 
standing, such a marriage is an object of dislike to 
them. 

Some Hindus think that the number of the wives sumi** t»r 
depends upon the caste; that, accordingly, a Brahman 
may take four, a Kskatriya three, a Vai£ya two wives, 
and a Sudra one. Every man of a caste may marry a 
woman of his own caste or one of the castes or caste 


Pi>A l ?.’iX WVil'2- 
Swr wjiM'tftH, 


Duration nf 
the men- 

courses. 


On pi'i^ 
mt,my ;hh! 
childbed. 

Fit&a H79, 


1 56 A LEER UN PS INDIA . 

below his ; but nobody is allowed to marry a woman 
of a caste superior to bis own. 

The child belongs to the caste of the mother, not to 
that of the father. Thus, e.g. if the wife of a Brahman 
is a Brahman, her child also is a Brahman : if she is a 
$iidra, her child is a Sitdra. In our time, however, the 
Brali mans, although it is allowed to them, never marry 
any woman except one of their own caste. 

The longest duration of the menstrual courses which 
has been observed is sixteen days, but in reality they 
last only during the first four days, and then the hus- 
band is not allowed tn cohabit with his wife, nor even 
to co rue near her in the house, because during this 
time she is impure. After the four days have elapsed 
and she has washed, she is pure again, and the husband 
may cohabit with her, even if the blood has not yet 
entirely disappeared ; for this blood is not considered 
as that of the menstrual courses, but as the same sub- 
stance -matter of which the embryos consist* 

It is the duty (of the Brahman), if he wants to co- 
habit with a wife to get a child, to perform a sacrifice 
to the fire called ijarhk&dhdna ; but he does not perform 
it, because it requires the presence of the woman, and 
therefore be feels ashamed to do so. In consequence 
he postpones the sacrifice and unites it with the next 
following one, which is due in the fourth month of the 
pregnancy, called xi m amtom taya n t m * After the wife 
has given birth to the child, a third sacrifice is per- 
formed between the birth and the moment when the 
mother begins to nourish the child. It is called jdta- 
kwnnan. 

The child receives- a name after the days of the child- 
bed have elapsed. The sacrifice for the occasion of the 
name-giving is called n&makarman* 

As long as the woman is in childbed, she does not 
touch any vessel, and nothing is eaten in her house, nor 
does the Brahman light there a fire. These days are 


CHAPTER LXIX\ 


1 37 


eight, for the Brahman, twelve for the Kahatriya, fifteen 
for the Vaisya, and thirty for the Sudra, For the low- 
caste people which are not reckoned among any caste, 
no term is fixed. 

The longest duration of the suckling of the child is 
three years, but there is no obligation in this mat tar. 
The sacrifice on the occasion of the first cutting of the 
child’s hair is offered in the third, the perforation of 
the ear takas place in the seventh and eighth years. 

People think with regard to harlotry that it is allowed 
with them. Thus, when Kabul was conquered by the 
Muslims and the Ispahbad of Kabul adopted Islam, he 
stipulated that he should not be bound to eat cows’ meat 
nor to commit sodomy (which proves that he abhorred 
the one as much as the other). In reality, the matter 
is not as people think, but it. is rather this, that the 
Hindus are not very severe in punishing whoredom. 
The fault, however, in this lies with the kings, not with 
the nation. But for this, no Brahman or priest would 
suffer in their idol -temples the women who sing, dance, 
and play. The kings make them an attraction for their 
cities, a bait of pleasure for their subjects, for no other 
but financial reasons. By the revenues which they 
derive from the business both as fines and taxes, they 
want to recover the expenses which their treasury has 
to spend on the army. 

In a similar way the Buy ide prince "Adiid-aldaula 
acted, who besides also had a second aim in view, viz, 
that of protecting his subjects against the passions of 
his unmarried soldiers. 


Oil the 
et*iiM“s of 
progfitu- 

tlOTl. 


C isS ) 


On jij ij- 
eednrv. 


Nnnihtr i^f 
witn-BESD.^ 


Different 
ktttiis of 
eelblia and 
orrifinltL 


OH APT EH LXX. 
m LAWSUITS, 

The judge demands from the suitor a document written 
against the accused person in a well-known writing 
which is thought suitable for writs of the kind, and 
in the document the well-established proof of the jus- 
tice of his suit, In case there is no written doc ament, 
the contest is settled by means of witnesses without a 
written document. 

The witnesses must, not be less than four, but there 
may be more* Only in case the justice of the deposi- 
tion of a witness is perfectly established and certain 
before the judge, he may admit it, and decide the ques- 
tion alone on the basis of the deposition of this sole 
witness. However, he does not admit prying about in 
secret, deriving arguments from mere signs or indica- 
tions in public, concluding by analogy from one thing 
which seems established about another, anti using all 
sorts of tricks to elicit the truth, as ? lyas Ibn Mu a- 
wiya used to do. 

If the suitor is not able to prove his claim, the de- 
fendant must swear, but he may also tender the oath 
to the suitor by saying, t,f Swear thou that thy claim is 
true and I will give thee what thou claimest.” 

There are many kinds of the oath, in accordance with 
the value of the object of the claim. If the object is 
of no great importance, and the suitor agrees that the 
accused person shall swear, the latter simply swears 
before Jive learned Brahmans in the following words : 


CHAPTER LXX. 


159 


a If I lie, he shall have as recompense as much of my 
goods as is equal to the eightfold of the amount of his 
claim.” 

A higher sort of oath is this: The accused person is 
invited to drink the bish ^dska?) called brahmana (?). 
It is one of the worst kinds ; but if ho speaks the truth, 
the drink does not do him any harm. 

A still higher sort of ordeal is this : They bring the 
man to a deep and rapidly flowing river, or to a deep 
well with much water Then ha speaks to the water: 

Since thou hekmgest to the pure angels, and k no west 
both, what is secret and public, kill me if 1 he, and 
preserve me if 1 speak the truth.” Then five ruen 
take him between them and throw him into the 
water, If he has spoken the trnth, he will not drown 
and die. 

A still higher sort is the following : The judge sends 
both claimant, and defendant to the temple of the most 
venerated idol of the town or realm. There the defen- 
dant has to fast during that day. On the following day 
lie dresses in new garments* and posts himself together 
with the claimant in that temple. Then the priests 
pour water over the idol and give it birn to drink. If 
he, then, has not spoken the truth* he at once vomits 
blood. 

A still higher sort is the following: The defendant 
is placed on the scale of a balance, and is weighed ; 
whereupon he is taken off the scale, and the scale is 
left as it is. Then he invokes as witnesses for the 
truth of his deposition the spiritual beings, the angels, 
the heavenly beings, one after the other, and all which 
he speaks he writes down on a piece of paper, and fastens 
it to his head. He is a second time placed in the scale 
of the balance. In case he has spoken the truth, he 
now weighs more than the first time. 

There is also a still higher sort. It is the following ; 
They take butter and sesame- oil in equal quantities, and 


ALBERUNrS INDIA. 


160 

boil them In a kettle. Then they throw a leaf into it, 
which by getting flaccid and burned is to them a sign 
of the boiling of the mixture* When the boiling is at 
its height, they throw a piece of gold into the kettle 
and order the defendant to fetch it out with his hand. 
If he has spoken the truth, he fetches it out* 

The highest kind of ordeal is the following ; They 
make a piece of iron so hot that it is near melting, and 
put it with a pair of tongs on the hand of the defen- 
dant, ill ere being nothing between his hand and the 
Iron save a broad leaf of some plant, and under it some 
few and scattered coma of rice in the husks. They 
order him to carry It seven pace^ and then he may 
throw it to the ground. 


( i&i ) 


Oil Al'TEU LXXI. 

ON PUNISHMENTS AND EXPIATIONS. 

In thi? regard the manners and customs of the Hindus 
resemble those of the Christians, for they are, like those 
of the latter, based on the principles of virtue and 
abstinence From wickedness, such as never to kill 
under any circumstance whatsoever, to give to him who 
has stripped yon of your coat also yon r shirt, to offer 
to him who has beaten your cheek the other cheek 
also, to bless your enemy and to pray for him. Upon 
my life, this is a noble philosophy ; but the people of 
this world are not alt philosophers. Most of them are 
ignorant and erring, who cannot be kept on the straight 
road save by the sword and ihe whip. And, indeed, 
ever since Cons tan tine the Victorious became a Chris- 
tian, both sword and whip have ever been employed, 
for without them it would be impossible to rule. 

India has developed in a similar way. For the Hin- THaU^h- 
dua relate that originally the affairs of government and nally the 
war were in the hands of the Brahmans, but the country iiiitiAn. 
became disorganised, since they ruled according to the 
philosophic principles of f heir religious codes, which 
proved impossible when opposed to the mischievous 
and perverse elements of the populace. They wore even 
near losing also the administration of their religious 
affairs. Therefore they humiliated themselves before 
the lord of their religion. Whereupon Bra liman in- racist, 
trusted them exclusively with the functions which they 
now have, whilst lie intrusted, the Kshatriyas with the 

VOL. IL '' L 


A LEE RUNTS IN Of A. 


Law of 
murder 


LiwnfthefL 


PuiilRibaiuent 
uJ itn 
pu4h3 


1 62 

d u ties of ruling an d fl g] 1 t i j.i g. E v er si n oe t b e B rah in an s 
live by asking and begging, and the penal code- is exer- 
cised under the control of the kings, not under that of 
the scholars. 

The law about murder is this : If the murderer is a 
Brahman, and the murdered person a member of another 
caste, lie is only bound to do expiation consisting of 
fasting, prayers, and almsgiving. 

If the murdered person is a Brahman, the Brahman 
murderer has to answer for it in a future life ; for he is 
not allowed to do expiation, because expiation wipes off 
the sm from the sinner, whilst nothing can wipe off any 
of the mortal crimes from a Brahman, of which the 
greatest are-: the murder of a Brahman, called rajrft- 
brakmakatyd; further, the killing of a cow, the drink- 
ing of wine, whoredom, especially with the wife of one r a 
Own father and teacher. However, the kings do not 
for any of these crimes kill a Brahman or Kshatriya, 
but they confiscate his property and banish him from 
their country. 

If a man of a caste under those of the Brahman and 
Kshatriya kills a man of the same caste, ho has to 
do expiation, but besides the kings inflict upon Mm a 
punishment in order to establish an example. 

The law of theft directs that the punishment of the 
thief should be in accordance with the value of the stolen 
obj e et. Acco rd i ngl y , so m cti mes a. p u n i&h ro ent 0 f extr em 0 
or of middling severity is necessary, sometimes a course 
of correction and imposing a payment, sometimes only 
exposing to public shame and ridicule. If the object is 
very great, the kings blind a Brahman and mutilate him, 
cutting off bis left hand and right foot, or the right hand 
and left foot., whilst they mutilate a KshatrEya without 
blinding liim, and kill thieves of the other castes. 

An adulteress is driven out of the house of the hus- 
band and banished. 

I have repeatedly been told that when Hindu slaves 


CHAPTER LX XI. 


t€>3 

(in Muslim countries) escape and return to their country 
and religion, the Hindus order that they should fast by 
w ay of expiation, then they bury them in the dung, 
stale, and milk of cows for a certain number of days, 
till they get into a state of fermentation. Then they 
drag them out of the dirt and give them similar dirt 
to eat, and more of the like, 

I have asked the Brahmans if this is true, but they 
de 1 1 y i t , a.i i d i nai n t ai n th at the re is no expiat t on pu ss i ble 
for such an individual, and that he is never allowed 
to return into those conditions of life in which he was 
before he was carried off as a prisoner. And how 
should that be possible ? If a Brahman eats in the 
house of a Si'idra for sundry days, lie is expelled from 
Ids caste and can never regain it. 


Hindu 
JiriiMJILCrF- of 
w-nr, buw 
treated Jiftar 
return^ to 
their cduti* 
try. 


< ) 


L .w of in- 

liflVitiLtLCSG., 




©H AFTER LXXTL 

ON I IS Illi] iilTA N CE , AND WSJ AT CLAIM T\\K DKC BASED 
PERSON HAS ON IT. 

The chief rule of their law of Inheritance is this, that 
the women do not inherit, except the daughter, .She 
gets the fourth part of the share of a son, according to 
a passage iti the hook Ufann. If she is not married, 
the money is spent on her fill the time of her marriage f 
and ] i er do w ry i s boi j gh 1 1 :y r i i \ ei in s of h er share, i \ fter- 
wards she has no more income from the house of her 
father. 

If a wi do w d oe s n ot h ii r r 3 1 1 ers el f, but pro for s to re m ai 1 1 
alive, the heir of her deceased husband has to provide 
her with nourishment and clothing as long as she lives. 

The debts of the deceased must be paid by his, heir, 
either out of his share or of the stock of his own pro- 
perty, no regard being had whether Hie deceased has 
left any property or not. Likewise he must bear the 
j ast- mentioned expenses for the widow in any case 
whatsoever. 

As regards the rule about the male heirs, evidently 
the descendants, i.e* the son and grandson, have a nearer 
claim to the inheritance than the ascendants, i.e. the 
father and grandfather, Further, as regards the single 
relatives among the descend ants as well as the ascen- 
dants, the nearer a man is related, the more claim he 
has on inheriting. Thus a son has a nearer claim than 
a grandson, a father than a grandfather, 

The collateral relations, as, e.g* t the brothers, have less 


CHAPTER LXXSL r6s 

claim t and inherit only in case there is nobody who has 
a better claim. Hence it is evident that the son of a 
daughter lias more claim than the son of a sister, and 
that the son of a brother has more claim than either 
of them. 

If there are several claimants of the same degree of 
relationship, as, sons or brothers, they all get equal 
shares. A hermaphrodite is reckoned as a male being. 

If the deceased leaves no heir, the inheritance falls 
to the treasury of the king, except in the case that the 
deceased person was a Brahman. In that, case the 
king has no right to meddle with the inheritance, but 
it is exclusively spent on almsgiving. 

The duty of the heir towards the deceased in the 
first year consists in his giving sixteen banquets, where 
every guest in addition to his food receives alms also, 
via- on the fi f teen th and sixteenth day % after de at h ; 
f i l rth e r, n n oe a m on t h d \ t ri u g th e w holey ear, The bai 1 - 
quet in the sixth month must be more rich and more 
liberal than the others. Further, on the last but one 
day of the year, which banquet is devoted to the 
deceased and his ancestors - and finally, on the last 
day of the year. With the end of the year the duties 
towards the deceased have been fulfilled. 

If the heir is a son, he must during the whole year 
wear mourning dress; he must mourn and have no 
intercourse with women, if he is a legitimate child and 
of a goo d & took . Bee i d ee, you mu st k s 1 o u- that, n ou ris h - 
ment is forbidden to the heirs for one single day in the 
first part of the mourning-year. 

Besides the almsgiving at the just- mentioned sixteen 
banquets, the heirs must make, above the door of the 
house, something like a shelf projecting from the wall 
in the open air, on which they have every day to place 
a dish of something cooked and a vessel of water, till 
the end of ten days after the death. For possibly the 
spirit of the deceased lias not yet found its rest, but 


On tie# ul 
U 1 1; 'M r t u 
Wfiiti* the 


1 66 A LEBRUN I J S INDIA , 


Parallel 
from Plato* 


moves still to and fro around t he house, ii angry and 
thirsty, 

A similar view is indicated by Plato in Fhmdo y where 
ho speaks of the soul circling round the graves, because 
possibly it still retains some vestiges of the love for the 
body, further he says ; u People have said regarding 
the soul that it is its habit to combine something cohe- 
rent out of the single limbs of the body, which is its 
dwelling in this as well as in the future world, when it 
leaves the body, and is by the death of the body sepa- 
rated from it.” 

On the tenth of the last-mentioned days, the heir 
spends, in the name of the deceased, much food and 
cold water. After the eleventh day, the heir sends 
every day sufficient food for a single person and a 
dirham, to the house of the Brahman, and continues 
doing this during all the days of the mourning-year 
without any interruption until its end. 


CHAPTER LXXI1L 


ABOUT WJiAT IS DUE TO THE BODIES OF THE DEAD AND 

OF THE LIVING (ijs. ABOUT BURYING AND SUICIDE). 

In the most ancient times the bodies of the dead were 
exposed to the air by being thrown on the fields without 
any covering ; also sick people were exposed on the 
fields and in the mountains, and were left there. If 
they died there, they had the fate just mentioned 5 but 
if they recovered, they returned to their dwellings. 

Thereupon there appeared a legislator who ordered 
people to expose their dead to the wind. In conse- 
quence they constructed roofed buildings with walls of 
rails, through which the wind blew, passing over the 
dead, as something similar is the case in the grave- 
towers of the ZoroastrianB. 

After they had practised (his custom for a long time, 
Nurilyana prescribed to them to hand the dead over to 
the fire, and ever since they are in the habit of burn- 
ing them, so that nothing remains of them, and every 
defilement, dirt, and smell is annihilated at once, so 
as scarcely to leave any trace behind. 

Nowadays the Slavonians, too, burn their dead, whilst 
the ancient Greeks seem to have had both customs, 
that of burning and that of burying. Socrates speaks 
in the book Fhaedo, after Crito had asked him in what 
m aim er he wanted to b e b n ri ed : “As y 0 u wish , when 
yon make arrangements for me, I shall not fiee from 
you.” Then be spoke to those around him : “Give to 
Crito regarding myself the opposite guarantee of that 


Primitive 
tmvLil- 
cu a tunas. 


FuS'u sSj. 


Gruuk ijitr. 
jdkts. 


ALBERUNF3 INDIA. 


Fire u.H'1 tiie 
-Sim&Catn 
th<; fiiKxraat 

WVftrtei (<5 

God. 


168 

which he has given to the judges regarding myself; 
for he guaranteed to them that 1 should stay, whilst 
yon now must, guarantee that I shall not stay after 
death. 1 shall go away, that the look of my body 
may be tolerable to Crito when it is burned or kttrwd, 
that he may not be in agony , and not say : ’ Socrates 
is carried away, or is burned or buried/ Thou, 0 
Crito, he at ease about the burial of my body. Do 
as thou likes t 3 and especially in accordance with the 
laws. ” 

Galen us says in his commentary to the apothegm s 
of Hippocrates: “ It is generally known that Asclepius 
was raised to the angels in a column of fire, the like of 
which is also related with regard to Dionysos > Heracles, 
and others, who laboured for the benefit of mankind. 
People say that God did thus with them in order to 
destroy the mortal and earthly part of them by the fire, 
and afterwards to attract to himself the immortal part 
of them, and to raise their souls to heaven/’ 

In these words, too, there is a reference to the burning 
as a Greek custom, but it seems to have been in use 
only for the great men among them. 

In a similar way the Hindus express themselves. 
There is a point in man by which he is what he is + 
This point becomes free when the mixed, elements of 
the body are dissolved and scattered by combustion. 

Regarding this return (of the immortal soul to God), 
the Hindus think that partly it is effected by the rays 
of the sun, the soul attaching itself to them and ascend- 
ing with them, partly by the ilame of the fire, which 
raises it (to God). Some Hindu used to pray that God 
would make his road to himself as a straight tine, be- 
cause this is the nearest road, and that there is no other 
road upwards save the lire or the ray. 

Similar to this is the practice of the Ghuzss Turks 
with reference to a drowned person ; for they place the 
body on a bier in the river, and make a cord hang down 


CHAPTER LXXITL 


from his foot, throwing the- end of the cord into the 
water. By means of this cord the spirit of the deceased 
is to raise himself for resurrection. 

The belief of the Hindus on this bead was confirmed 
by the words of Vasndeva, which he spoke regarding* 
the sign of him who is liberated from the fetters (of 
bodily exist ence). <£ His death takes place during utta- 
rdi/ana [ix+ the northern revolution of the sun from the 
winter solstice to the summer solstice), during the 
white half of the month, between tif/kkd lojtnps^ ix. be- 
tween conjunction and deposition (new moon and full 
moon), in the seasons of winter and spring/’ 

A similar view is recognised in the following words 
of Mam : “The other religious bodies blame us because 
we worship sun and moon, and represent them as an 
imago. .But they do not know their real natures ; they 
do not know that sun and moon are our path, the door 
whence we march forth into the world of our existence 
(into heaven), as this lias been declared by Jesus/’ So 
he maintains. 

People relate- that Buddha had ordered the bodies of 
the dead to be thrown into flowing water. Therefore 
his followers, the Sliamamans, throw their dead into 
the rivers. 

According to the Hindus, the body of the dead has 
the claim upon his heirs that they are to wash, embalm, 
wrap if in a shroud, and then to burn it with its much 
sandal arid other wood as they can get. Part of his 
burned bones are brought Lo the Ganges and thrown 
into it, that the Ganges should flow over them, as it 
has flowed over the burned bones of the children of 
Sagara, thereby forcing them from hell and bring- 
ing them into paradise. The remainder of the ashes 
is thrown into some brook of running water. On 
the spot where the body has been burned they raise 
a monument similar to a milestone, plastered with 
gypwu m. 


QiiotiUkua 
from Mini. 

£3+- 


Hindu 
maimer ut 
buriaL 


Mod.es nf 
an! tide. 


'His tree o f 

PfiJilLja. 


170 A L BER UN V 8 IN DIA , 

The bodies of children under three years are not 
burned. 

Those who fulfil these duties towards the dead after- 
wards wash then 1 selves as well as their dresses during 
two days, because they have become unclean by touch- 
ing the dead. 

Those who cannot afford to burn their dead will 
either throw them somewhere nn the open field or into 
running water. 

Now as regards the right of the body of the living, 
the Hindus would not think of burning it save in the 
ca^e of a widow who chooses to follow her husband, or 
in the case of those who are tired of their life, who are 
distressed over some incurable disease of their body, 
sonic irremovable bodily defect, or old age and infirmity. 
This, however, no man of distinction does, but only 
Vaisyas and Siidras, especially at those times which 
are prized as the most suitable for a man to acquire in 
them, for a future repetition of life, a better form and 
condition than that in which he happens to have been 
born and to live. Burning oneself is forbidden to 
Brahmans and Kshatriyas by a special law. Therefore 
these, if they want to kill themselves, do so at the time 
of an eclipse in some other manner, or they hire some- 
body to drown them in the Ganges, keeping them under 
water till they are dead. 

At the junction of the two rivers, Yamuna and 
Ganges, there is a great, tree called Praywja, a tree of 
the species called m/m It is peculiar to this kind of 
tree that its branches send forth two species of twigs, 
some directed upward, as is the case with all other trees, 
and others directed downward like roots, but with out- 
leaves, If such a twig enters into the soil, it i,s like a 
supporting column to the branch whence it has grown. 
Nature lias arranged this on purpose, since the branches 
of this t ree are of an enormous extent- (and require to be- 
s u 1 >\ jorte d ) . 1 ie re the B ra h n \ an s an d Kshat riy as are i n 


CHAPTER LXXUL 


r 7 T 

the habit of committing suicide by climbing up the tree 
and throwing themselves into the Ganges. 

Johannes Grammaticus relates that certain people 
in ancient Greek heathendom, " whom I call the v/ov- 
skippers of tin: devil " — so he says — used to beat their 
limbs with swords, and to throw themselves into the 
fire, without feeling any pain therefrom. 

As we have related this as a view of the Hindus not 
to commit suicide, so also Socrates speaks; “ likewise 
it docs not become a man to kill himself before the 
gods give him a cause in the shape of some compulsion 
or dire nrressity, like that in which we now are.” 

Further he says : We human beings are, as it were, 
in a prison. It does not behove us to 11 ee nor to free 
ourselves from it, because the gods take notice of us, 
since we, the human beings, are servants to them.” 


Creek 

jHuraUcls 


( 172 ) 


ES 5 . 

Yimou a 
JiittlujrLh. ihL' 
fjuitmjf. 


OH APT E R LXXIV. 

ON FASTING, AND THE YAIEIOUB KfNDB OP IT. 

Fasting is with the Hindus voluntary and superero- 
gatory* Fasting is abstaining from food for a certain 
length of time, which may be different in duration and 
in the manner in which it is carried out. 

The ordinary middle process, by which all the condi- 
tions of fasting are realised, is this : A man determines 
the day on which he will fast, and keeps in mind the 
name of that being whose benevolence he wishes to 
gain thereby and fur whose sake he will fast, be it a 
god, or an angel, or some other being. Then be pro- 
ceeds, prepares (and takes) his food on the day before 
the fast-day at noon, cleans Ins teeth by nibbing, and 
fixes his thoughts on the fasting of the following day. 
From that moment he abstains from food. On the 
morning of the fast -day he again rubs his teeth, washes 
himself, and performs the duties of the day. He takes 
water in his hand, and sprinkles it into all four direc- 
tions, he pronounces with bis tongue the name of the 
deity for whom he fasts, and remains in this condition 
till the day after the fast- day. After the sun has risen, 
he is at liberty to break the fast at that moment if he 
likes, or, if he prefers, he may postpone it till noon. 

This kind is called upavtim. i.e. the fasting ; for the 
not-eating from one noon to the following is called 
ekanakta, not fasting. 

Another kind, called feriwAr a, t is this : A man takes 
his food on some day at noon, and on the following day 


CHAPTER LX XIV. 


*73 


in the evening. On the third day be eats nothing 
except what by chance is given him without his asking 
for it. On the fourth day he fasts. 

Another kind, called pard!t(i t is this: A man takes 
his food at noon on three consecutive days. Then he 
transfers his eating-hour to the evening during three 
further consecutive days. Then lie fasts uninterrup- 
tedly during three consecutive days without breaking 
fast. 

Another kind, called mndrdyana, is this: A man 
fasts on the clay of full moon ; on the following day he 
takes only a mouthful, on the third day he takes double 
this amount j on l he fourth day the threefold of it, &c, 

&a t going on thus till the day of new moon. On that 
day he fasts j on the following days he again diminishes 
his food by one mouthful a day, till lie again fasts on 
the day of full moon. 

An ot h er k hid, called m dm rdsa (m diopavdsa) , is this : 

A man uninterruptedly fasts all the days of a month 
without ever breaking fast. 

. The Hindus explain accurately what reward the latter 
lasting in every single month will bring to a man for a ni tiK Hingie 
n e w 1 i f 0 of his af te r lie h as di ed . T1 1 ey s av : 

If a man fasts all the days of Uaitra, he obtains wealth 
and joy over the nobility of his children. 

If he fasts Vai sakha, he will be a lord over his tribe 
and great in his army. 

If he fasts Jyaishtha, he will be a favourite of the 
women. 

If he fasts Ashadha, he will obtain wealth, 

If he fasts Sruyana, he obtains wisdom. 

If he fasts Rhfidrapada, lie obtains health aud valour, 
riches and cattle. 

If he fasts Asvayuja, he will always be victorious 
over his enemies. 

If he fasts Kmttika, he will be grand in the eyes of 
people and will obtain his wishes. 


174 


ALBERUNrS INDIA. 


If he fasts Marga^irsha, he will be born in the most 
beautiful and fertile country. 

If lie fasts Pans ha, he obtains a high reputation. 

If he fasts Migha, he obtains innumerable wealth. 

If he fasts Phalguna, he will be beloved. 

He, however, who fasts during nil the months of the 
year, only twelve times breaking the fast, will reside in 
paradise 10,000 years, and will thence return to life as 
the member of a noble, high, and respected family. 

The book V-Uhn * T)k m ■ m.a relates that Maitreyh the 
wife of Taj na valleys, asked her husband what man is 
to do in order to save his children from calamities and 
bodily defects, upon which he answered : ” If a man 
begins on the day T)nve, in the month Fausha, i.e* the 
second day of each of the two halves of the month, and 
fasts four consecutive days, washing himself on the 
first with water, on the second with sesame oil, on the 
third with gal an gale, and on the fourth with a mixture 
of various balms ; it he further on each day gives alms 
and recites praises over the names of the angels ; if he 
continue to do ah this during each month till the end 
of the year, his children will in the following life be 
free from calamities and defects, and tic will obtain 
what he wishes ; for also Dilipa. l/fivhfft&da, and Yaydii 
obtained their wishes for having acted thus/* 


( 175 ) 


CHAPTER LXXV. 

ON THE DETERMINATION OF THE FAST- DAYS, 

The reader must know in general that the eighth and 
eleventh days of the white half of every month are fast- 
days, except in the case of the leap month, for it is dis- 
regard ed, being considered unlucky. 

The eleventh is specially holy to Ynstideva, because 
on having taken possession of AJ il.hu ra* the inhabitants of 
wlii oh formerly used to worship Indra one day in each 
month, he induced them to transfer this worship to the 
eleventh, that it should be performed in Ins name. As 
the people did so, Indra became angry and poured rains 
over them like deluges, in order to destroy both them 
a nd th eir cafcti e. Y as ud e va, however, raised a m o im tain 
by his hand and protected them thereby. The water 
collected round them, but not above them, and the image 
of Indra Hei The people commemorated this event 
by a monument on a mountain in the neighbourhood 
of Jlfihfmw Therefore they fast on this day in the state 
of the moat punctilious cleanness, and they stay awake 
all the night, considering this as an obligatory per- 
formance, though in reality it is not obligatory. 

The book Vish^u-Dkarma says : rt When the moon is 
in Boh ini, the fourth of her stations, on the eighth day of 
the black half, it is a fast- day called Jaymtti, Giving 
alms on tliis day Es an expiation for all sins*" 

Evidently this condition of the fast-day does not in 
general apply to all months, but in particular only to 
Bhudrapada, since Vfi.su deva was born “in this month 


The el ulilli 
nadete^omh 
days of each 
half of ft 
uKm Lh we 


On bSij icflit 
fimts-diicy 
throft^bCHit 
the year. 


ALBERUNPS INDIA. 


176 

and on this day, whilst the moon stood in the station 
Hoiiini, The two conditions, viz. the moon's standing 
in Robin i and that the day is the eighth of the black 
half, can happen only once In so and so many years, for 
various reasons, e.ff. the intercalation of the year, and 
because the civil years do not keep pace with lunar time, 
either getting in advance of it or falling behind, 

Tiie same book says: ‘-When the moon stands in 
Punarvasii, the seventh of her stations, on the eleventh 
day of the white half of the month, this is a fast-day, 
called Atj (7 Affdtafa). if a man does works of piety 
on this day, he will be enabled to obtain whatever he 
wishes, as has been the case with Bagara, Kakutalha* 
and Dandakmtmtf (?), who obtained royalty because they 
had done so* 

The sixth day of Caitra is a fast- day holy to the sun. 

In the month Ashiiclha, when the moon stands in 
Anurftdliftj the seventeenth of her signs, there is a fast- 
day holy to Vasudeva called Ikvaslni (?), ie. Deva is 
sleeping, because it is the beginning of the four months 
during which Vasudeva slept. Others add this condi- 
tion, that the day must he the eleventh of the month. 

It is evident that such a day does not occur in every 
year. The followers of Vasudeva abstain on this day 
from meat, fish, sweetmeats, and cohabitation with the 
women, and take food only once a day. They make 
Pn§rrj *a 7 . the earth their bed without any covering, and do not 
use a bedstead raised above the earth. 

People sav that these four months are the night of 
the angels, to which must be added a month at the 
beginning as evening twilight, and a month at; the end 
as morning dawn. However, the sun stands then near 
0° of Cancer, which, es noon in the tlaif of the ttwj?h y and 
I do not see in what way this moon is connected with 
the two Sarhdbis. 

The- day of Ml moon in the month Sr Avan a is a fast- 
day holy to Soman ft thru 


CHAPTER LX XV, 


U7 

When in the month Asvay up the moon stands in 
Alaharatun (the In nap station) and the sun is in Virgo, 
it is a fast-day. 

The eighth of the same month is a fast-day holy to 
BhagavatL Fasting is broken when the moon rises. 

The fifth day of Bhudrapnda is a fast -day holy to 
the sun, called x/ittf* They anoint the solar rays, and 
in particular those rays which enter through the win- 
dows, with various kinds of balsamic ointments, and 
place upon them odoriferous plants and flowers. 

When in this month the moon stands in Kohini, it 
is a fast-day for the birth of Vusudeva, Others add, 
besides, the condition that the day must be the eighth of 
the black half. We have already pointed out that such 
a day does not occur in every year, but only in certain 
ones of a larger number of years. 

When in the month IC&rttika the moon stands in 
RevatL the last of her stations, it is a fast-day in com- 
memoration of the waking up of Vusiidovu. Jt is called 
n.coHhhvt. i.e* the rising of the Deva. Others add, 
besides, the condition that it. must be the eleventh of 
the white half. On that day they soil themselves with 
the dung of cows, and break fasting by feeding upon a 
mixture of cow's milk, urine, and dung. This day is the 
first of the five days which are called JBMshma paftca- 
yfUri. They fast during them in honour of Vftsudeva* 
On the second of them the Brahmans break fasting, 
after them the others. 

On the sixth day of Banska is a fasting in honour of 
the sun. 

On the third day of M/i.gha there is a fasting for 
the women, not for the men. It is called Guur*t-r 
(//r on4-trittyd?) y and lasts the whole day and night. 
On the following morning they make presents to the 
nearest relatives of their husbands. 


VOL. ii. 


M 


( ! 7 8 ) 


The 2nd 
Ciiitni. 


1 1 til Ctlftm 


Full moon 'a 
day. 


OHAPEBH LXXVI. 

OX TIE V. FESTIVALS AND FESTIVE DAYS. 

Yatua menus travelling under auspicious circumstances* 
Therefore a feast is called Most of the Hindu 

festivals are celebrated by women and children only. 

The 2nd of the month Cat fra is a festival to the 
people of Kashmir, called Af/dth (?), and celebrated on 
account of a victory gained by their king, Mutt ah over 
the Turks. According to their account he ruled, over 
the whole world.. But this is exactly what they say 
of most of their kings. However, they are incautious 
enough to assign him to a time not much anterior to 
our time, which leads to their lie being found out. It 
isj of course, not impossible that a Hindu should rule 
(over a huge empire), as Greeks, Homans. Babylonians, 
and Persians have done, but all the times not- much 
anterior to our own are well known, (If, therefore, 
such had been the case, we should know it,) Perhaps 
the here mentioned king ruled over the whole of India, 
and they know of no other country but India and of no 
other nations but themselves. 

On the nth there is a festival called ffindoU- 
oailrn, when they meet in the thmf/nkct , or temple of 
VTl.su deva, and swing his image to and fro, as had been 
done with him when he was an infant in the cradle* 
They perform the same in their houses during the 
whole day and make merry. 

On the full moon s day of Caifcra there is a feast 
called Bahmul (msmt taf). a festival for the women. 


CHAPTER LXXVT 


m 


when they put on their ornaments and demand presents 
from their h ns bands. 

The 22 nd is a festival called vaitra-caxhfiti, a day of aand catta* 
merriment holy ta Bhagavatl, when people nse to wash 
and to give alms* 

The 3rd Yaisftkha is a festival for the women called y 1 v-m- 
f / ttif { '-t - r (f/a ur?-f 1 Hi h/d f). h 0 1 y to Ga 1 1 rS , the da u gh ter 0 f 1 a t i ' aas. 
the mountain Hitnavant, the wife of Alai jade va. They 
wash and dress gaily, they worship Lhe image of Garni 
and light lamps before it, they offer perfumes, abstain 
from eating, and play with swings. On the following 
day they give alms and eat. 

On the 10th Tai&ikha all the Brahmans whom the 
kings have invited proceed forth to the open fields, and 
there they light great fires for the sacrifices during five 
days till full moon. They make the fires in sixteen 
different spots and in four different groups. In each 
group a Brahman performs the sacrifice, so that there 
arc four performing priests as there are four Vedas. 

On the 16th they return home. 

in this month occurs the vernal equinox, called vmuUeqni’ 
viteu/ida. They determine the day by calculation and 
make it a festival t when people invite the Brahmans, 

On the rst JyaMifha, or new moon's day. they ctde- letjyuiBii- 
brate a festival and throw the first-fruits of all seeds 
into the water in order to gain thereby a favourable 
prognostic. 

The full moon's day of this month is a festival to Fun moon's 
the women, called r^Orpama ( v ). 

All the days of the month Ash ml ha are devoted to ka.&dh*, 
alms-giving. It is also called dhdrL During this 
time the household is provided with new vessels. 

On the full moon's day of Sr&vana they give banquets i&tii 8rA- 
to the Brahtnans. 

On the 8th ASvaynja, when the moon stands in the sUlAj&vu- 
nineteenth station, Alula, begins the sucking of the : 5 '' 
sugar cane. It. is a festival holy to Mahamtitind. the 


ALBERUNFS INDIA . 


15th 

yuja. 


ifith AWTft- 

yu|i*- 


Ejinl Aivtv 

J-Hj.:i. 


EiLij-ivitpiiili, 
now mfujn. 


3rct EMiim- 
pad;'L 


fjtL BMcUVL- 


aih. BMdrfr 
p;u:liV. 


r8o 

sister of Mahade-va, when they offer the first-fruits of 
sugar and all other thing* to her image which is called 
Bhagavati. They give much alms before it and kill 
kids. He who does not possess anything to offer, 
stands upright by the side of the idol, without ever 
sitting down, and will sometimes pounce upon whom- 
soever he meets and kill him. 

On the Tjth, when the moon stands in the last of 
her stations, llevati, there is the festival (V), 

when they wrangle with each other and play with the 
animals. It is holy to Yusudeytn because his uncle 
Kaihsa had ordered him into his presence for the 
purpose of wrangling. 

On the 1 6th there is a festival, when they give alms 
to the Brahmans. 

On the 23rd is the festival A sol: a, also called Alan, 
when the moon stands in the seventh station , Puuar- 
vasu. It is a day of merriment and of wrangling. 

In the month BJifldrapadfi., when the moon stands in 
the tenth station. Maghft, they celebrate a festival 
which they call pUripn^ha, i.e. the half of the month 
of the Fathers, because the moon's entering this station 
falls near the time of new moon. They distribute alms 
during fifteen days in the name of the Fathers. 

On the 3rd Bhfidrapada is the festival HarMH {?), for 
the women, Tt is their custom that a number of days 
before they sow all kinds of seeds in baskets f and they 
bring the baskets forward on this day after they have 
commenced growing. They throw roses and perfumes 
on them and play with each other during the whole 
night. On the following morning they bring them 
to the ponds, wash them, wash themselves, and give 
alms. 

On the 6th of this month, which is called Gdihtd (?) } 
when people give food to those who are in prison. 

Go the 8th, when the moonlight has reached half of 
its development, they have a festival called dh-nn:^ 


CHAPTER LXXVL 1S1 

tj/ ■ ih <t ( ?) : tli ey was h tli en tselv es and eat w el 1 gro w in g 
grain that their children should be healthy. The 
women celebrate this festival when they are pregnant 
and desire to have children. 

The nth BWidrapada is called P^rmtA (?). This is 
the name of a thread which the priest makes from 
materials presented to him for the purpose. One part 
of it he dyes with crocus r the other he leaves as it. is* 
He gives the thread the same length as the statue of 
Vasudeva is high* Then he throws it over Ins neck, 
so that it hangs down Lo his feet. It is a much vene- 
rated festival 

The 1 6th, the first day of the black half, is the first 
of seven days which are called btrfuni (?), when they 
adorn the children nicely and give a treat to them. 
They play with various animals. On the seventh day 
the men adorn themselves and celebrate a festival. 
And during the rest of the month they always adorn 
the children towards, the end of the day, give alms to 
the J 3 rah mans, and do works of piety. 

When the moon stands in her fourth station, Rohini, 
they call this time fhim.d-Iaivsd (?),. celebrating a festival 
during three days and making merry by playing with 
each other* from joy over the birth of Yasudeva. 

Jivaiarman relates that the people of Kashmir cele- 
brate a festival on the 26th and 27th of this month s 
on account of certain pieces of wood called garni (?) : 
which the water of the river Vitasta (Jailam) carries, 
in those two days, through the capital, AtUmkfhmuu 
People maintain that it is Maluldeva who sends them. 
It is peculiar to these pieces of wood, so they say, that 
nobody is able to seize them , however much he may desire 
it, that they always evade his grasp and move away. 

However, the people of Kashmir, with whom 1 have 
conversed on the subject-, give a different statement as 
to the place and the time, and. maintain that the thing 
occurs in a pond called K 4 da<khtikr (?),. to the left of the 


1 ]Ol .Fih;uj 
lVLjwda, 

PrLft'tf nRfj r 


3 oil l HI 1 iul 
rjifin.rti'i., 


Bfitll, STtll 
pluhV 


A LB BRUNTS INDIA. 


source of the just-mentioned river ( Vita stit-J ail am), in 
the middle of the month YaiS&kha. The fatter version 
is the more likely, as about this time the waters begin 
to increase. The matter reminds one of the wood in 
the river of Jurjsui, which appears at the time when the 
water swells in its source. 

The same -Jivayarman relates that in the country of 
Svat, opposite the district of K irt (?), there is a. valley 
in w Inch fifty-three streams unite. It is called TrmijiU 
(cf. Sindh i tr£t m aujdk<t)> In those two days the water 
of this valley becomes white, in consequence of AlahtU 
devil's washing 1 in it, as people believe. 

t st K;nt- The ist Kitrttika, or new moon’s day, when the 

ilk<t ' sun marches in Libra, is called DiMli, Then people 
bathe, dress festively, make presents to each other of 
betel-leaves and areca-nuts ; they ride to the temples 
to give alms and play merrily with each other till noon. 
In the night they light a great number of lamps in 
every place so that the air is perfectly clear. The 
cause of this festival is that Lakshin i, the wife of Yasn- 
deva, once a year on tins day liberates Bali, the son of 
Vi roc-ana, who is a prisoner in the seventh earth, and 
allows him to go out into the world. Therefore the 
festival is called BaHrdjjfa T Le* the principality of Bali. 
The Hindus maintain that this time was a time of 
luck in the Tvritayuga, and they are happy because 
the feast-day in question resembles that time in the 
K lit ay tiga. 

In the same month, when full moon is perfect* they 
give banquets and adorn their women during all the 
days of the black half. 

;jid MArgur The 3rd Mtirgailrsh*** called Gt w&na-b&irij (— — t fi- 
tly & / ), is a feast of the women, sacred to Gaud. They 
meet in the houses of the rich among them ; they put 
several silver statues of the goddess on a throne, and 
perfume it and play with cadi other the whole day. 
On the following morning they give alms h 


CHAPTER LX X VL 


«S3 


On full njoon t s day of the same month there is TWArga- 
an other festival of the women. pigs' 

On most of the days of the month Pansha they pre- psui^ia. 
pare great quantities of p&haval (?), Le. a sweet dish 
which they eat. 

On the eighth day of the white half of Pansha, which buu’Wih. 
is called Ash tv hr t the\ make gatherings of the Brah- 
mans. present them with dishes prepared from the plant 
A l r if ih ' >: hurt tmix ? i.e, net ru r ttl ' in A ral lie ( = ora ch e) t n i 1 d 
show attentions to them, 

On the eighth day of the black half, which is called 
Sdfcdrfrnii, they eat turnips, 

T) i e 3 rd M a gh a, ca 1 1 ed Md h atr ij ( M&gha. ■ t) it y/d .■ ), i s 3*1 m ^ ia - 
a f eas t for tb e worn e n > an d sacre d to (tamp 'J 1 h ey 11 1 e et 
in the houses of the most, prominent among them be- 
fore the image of Garni, place before it various ports 
of costly dresses, pleasant perfumes, and nice dishes. 

In each meeting-place they put 108 jugs full of water, 
and after the water has become cool, they wash with 
it four times at (he four quarters of that night. On 
the following day they give alms, they give banquets 
and receive guests. The women’s washing with cold 
water is common to all the days of this month. 

On the last day of this month, i.e r the 29th* when agtii Mugi»u 
there Is only a remainder of 3 day- minutes, i. c. i-f 
hour, all the Hindus enter the water and duck under in 
it seven times, 

On the full moon’s day of this month, called mwah ft lS th M^ius. 
(?), they light lamps on all high places. 

On the 23rd, which is called vtthtwdftkft, and also a3 rd M.i-bu. 
i/tdltdt(fu, they receive guests and feed them on meat 
and large black peas. 

On the 8 th Fhftlgrma, called pur dr id hi, they pre- subiim. 
pare for the Brahmans various dishes from Hour and 
butter. 

The full moon's day of PhAlguna is a feast to the ioh pi.a]- 
women, called Oddd (?), or also dhoia (he. doki\ when s " rift ‘ 


A LB HR UN P S INDIA, 


Tirith Hhi.1- 


. jrd PhiU- 
grunuk 


A fostiifft] J]j 
MiilWn. 


184 

they make fire 00 places lower than those on which 
they make It on the festival cdmdhu > and they throw 
the lire oat. of the village. 

O11 the following night, ic. that of the 1 6th, called 
SiranUri, they worship MaMdeva during the whole 
u igl it ; th ey v ei n ai 1 l aw ake , and do not Li e do wn to 
sleep, and offer to him perfumes and flowers. 

(.hi the 23rd, which is called /yu/ffdUhi (V), they eat. 
rice with butter and sugar. 

The Hindus of Multan have a festival which is called 
Sdiwbap utrufiUrd ; they celebrate it. in honour of the 
suu 5 and worship him, Tt is determined in this way : 
They first .take the ahct/njana y according to the rules of 
Khan dakh ad y aka, and s 1 1 bt met 98 .040 there! ro m . T h ey 
d i vid e t. b e r em ai n d e r by 36 5 , an d d i s 1 egard tl le i j u otic 11 1. 
If tlic division does not- give a remainder, the quotient 
is the date of the festival in question. If there is a 
remainder, it represents the days which have elapsed 
since the festival,, and by subtracting these days from 
365 you hud the date of the same festival in the next 
following year. 


f 185 ) 


CHAPTER LXXVII. 

UN DAYS WHICH ARE HELD TN SPECIAL VENERATION, 

ON LUCKY AND UNLUCKY TIMES, AND ON SUCH 
TIMES AS ARE PARTICULARLY FAVOURABLE FOR 
ACQUIRING TN THEM RUSS IN HEAVEN. 

The single days enjoy different degrees of veneration 
according to certain qualities which they attribute to 
them. They distinguish, cjj. } the bun day, because it is 
the day of the sun and the beginning of the week, as 
(he Triday is distinguished in Islam. 

To the distinguished days further belong amdv&sya The ^ of 
and -pAnj-nnu, v-.r. the days of con junction (new moon) sLiidrnii' 
and opposition (full moon), because they are the limits 
of the wane and the increase of the moonlight* In ac- 
cordance with the belief of the Hindus regarding this P*gaagi. 
increase and wane, the Brahmans sacrifice continually 
to the fire in order to earn heavenly reward. They let 
the portions of the angels accumulate, which are the 
offerings thrown into the fire at moonlight during the 
whole time from new moon to full moon. Then they 
begin distributing these portions over the angels in 
the time from full moon to new moon, till at the time 
of new moon nothing any more remains of them. We 
have already mentioned that new moon and fuil moon 
are noon and midnight of the nychtherneron of the 
Fathers, Therefore the uninterrupted almsgiving on 
these two days m always done in honour of the 
Fathers. 


ALBER UNI’S INDIA. 


The-jfowr 

jjh 

which the 
four yKffiw 
=u'«i sflid to 
com- 
meufeul. 


CH tiekima 
thereutu 


1 36 

F our other days are held in special veneration, 
because* according to the Hind us. with them the 
single ft tuja& of fc h e prase n t m t f?r]pfya li ave comm en ce d , 
vie, : — 

The 3rd Vai^kha, called LshairUd (?). on which 
the Kritayuga is believed to have commenced* 

The gth Karttika, the beginning of the TretAyuga. 

The i^lh Hugh a, the beginning of the Dvupara- 
yuga. 

The 13th of ASvayuja, the beginning of the Kali- 
ynga. 

According to my opinion, these day a are festivals, 
sacred to the ■yuga&, instituted for the purpose of alms- 
giving or for the performance of some rites and cere- 
monies, as, tig., Lite commemoration- days in the year of 
the Christians, However, we must deny that the four 
t/iuffix could really have commenced on the days Vie J j e 
mentioned. 

With regard to the Kritayuga, the matter is perfectly 
clear, because its beginning is the beginning of the 
solar and lunar cycles, there being 110 fraction in the 
date, since it is. at the same time, the beginning of the 
ca&nrguga. it is the first of the month Oaitra, at the 
same time the date of the venial equinox, and on the 
same day also the other fugas commence. For. accord- 
ing to Brahmagupta, a miv.rg&ga contains :■ — 

Civil days - + it 5 77 1 9 1 6,450 

Solar months , 51,340,000 

Leap months ..... 1,593,300 

Lunar days !...._ 1.602,999,000 

Wriis^^ra days . 25 , 082,550 

These are the elements on which the resolution of 
chronological dates into days, or the composition of 
them out of days, is based. All these numbers may be 
divided by to, and the divisors are wholes without 
any f racti on . A 0 w t) u- begi n n mgs of 1 1 1. e si ngl e y agm 
depend upon the beginning of the caiiiry-uga* 


CHAPTER LXXVJL 


187 


According to Pnlisa the cairnyugo, contains : — 


Civil , 

fc>dat months 
Leap months 
Lunar days . 
PfiartTtrf r days 


1,577,917,800 


51,840,0™ 

L i93-33« 


. r, 603,000,010 
25,082,280 


AH these numbers may be divided by 4, and the 
divisors are wholly without any fraction. According 
to this computation, also, the beginnings of the single: 
jfittjm are the same as the beginning of the 
It. the first of the month Oaitra and the day of the 
vernal equinox. However, this day falls on different 
week-days. 

Hence it is evident that their theory about the 
rib'. jvo- mi unioned four days being the beginnings of the 
four ipifjm. is without any foundation at all ; that they 
ecu 1 Id never arrive at such a result unless by resorting 
to very artificial ways of interpretation. 

The times which are specially favourable to earn a The riav* 
heavenly reward in them are called iwn^ak/da. Bala- 
bhadra says in bis commentary to the Khan dak had- 
y aka: — "I f the -ifo// in, ie. the ascetic who understands 
the creator, who chooses the good and eschews the bad, 
con ti n n ed h is m an n e r of 1 i f e d n r i n g one tl 1 on sai i d ye ars , 
his reward would not be equal to that of a man who 
gives films on '/w-ttyttfcdltt and Pul tils the duties of the 
day, i.e> washing and anointing himself, saying prayers 
and p raises.” 

No doubt, most of the feast-days enumerated in the 
preceding belong to this kind of days, for they are r^o 2^, 
devoted to almsgiving and banqueting. If people did 
not expect to gain thereby a reward in heaven, they 
would not approve of the rejoicings and merriments 
wh icli arc eh aracte ristic of these days r 

Notwithstanding the nature of the pi myafidta is 
such as here explained, soma of them are considered as 
lucky, others as unlucky days. 


A LB BRUNTS INDIA. 


Tvi I3i lil'iV'l I ti. 


Mr t]lOil (iff 

liiiltmlai in lt 

tljH> rorntiluij t 
of .teuii- 
krthttL, 


18S 

Those days are lucky when the planets migrate f rein 
one sign into the other, especially the sun. These times 
are called sm hl'rdntL The most propitious of them are 
the days of the equinoxes and solstices, and of these the 
most propitious is the day of the vernal equinox. It is 
called hil:h 4 or $hiln% (jdsk*tt'n) y ns the two sounds xh ui.h! 
l'h may he exchanged for each other* and may also, by 
a -metathfMHv change their place. 

As, however, a planet’s entering a new sign does not. 
require more than a moment of time* and J during it* 
people must offer to the fire the offering sdnta (?) with 
oil and com, the Hindus have given a greater extent to 
these times, making them h&fp-n with the moment when 
the eastern edge of the body of the sun touches the 
first part of the sign ; reckoning as their middle the 
moment when the sun’s centre reaches the first part of 
the sign, which is in astronomy considered as the time 
of the migration (of the planet from one sign to the 
other), and reckoning as the end that moment when the 
western edge of the sun’s body touches the first part 
of the sign. This process lasts, in the case of the sun, 
nearly two hours. 

For the purpose of finding the times In the week 
when the sun migrates from one sign to another, they 
have several methods, one of which wag dictated to me 
by ft am ay a (?). It is this : — 

Subtract from tho ftakakala 847, multiply the re- 
mainder by 1 So* and div ide the product by 143* The 
quotient you get represent® days*, minutes, and seconds. 
T his mi m her is th e basis. 

If you want to know at what time in the year in 
question the sun enters any one of the twelve signs, 
you look out the sign in the following table. Take the 
number which you find side by side with the sign In 
question, and add It to the basis* days to days, minutes 
to minutes., seconds to seconds* If the wholes amount 
to 7 or more, disregard them, and with the remainder 


CHAPTER LX XVI I. 


189 


count off the week-days, beginning with the beginning 
0! Sunday. That. time you arrive at is the moment of 
mvhfeij&ntU 


tiELL must 1 ;-ii ad4L‘d tc> the il'xw. 



Pays, 

GhiLl L 

Caeli ak;i, 

A ties 

3 

19 

O 

Taurus 

6 

I? 

□ 

Gemini 

2 

43 

O 

Cancer 

6 

21 

O 

Leo .... 

2 

49 

O 

Vir^o 

S 

49 

O 

Libra 

1 

T 4 

a 

Scorpio 

3 

6 

30 

Arcitenens 

4 

34 

30 

Capiicoroqi; 

3 

54 

0 

Anaphora . 

0 

30 

0 

Pisces 

2 

1 1 

20 


The beginning of con seontive sol at years in the week 
differs by 1 day and the fraction at the end of the 
year. This amount, reduced to fractions of one kind, 
is the mu 1 tip] i eater (180), used in the preceding com- 
putation in order to find the tiuypl/tx of each year (be. 
the amount by which its beginning wanders onward 
through the week). 

The divisor (143) is the denominator of the fraction 
(which is accordingly 

Accordingly the fraction at the end of the solar year 
is, in this computation, reckoned as which implies 
as the length of the solar year, 365 days ] 5' 3 ] v/ 28 
To raise this fraction of a day to one whole day, of 
a day are required, I do not know whose theory this is. 

if we divide the days of a vaturifuga by the number 
of its solar years, according to the theory of Brahma- 
gupta, we get as the length of the solar year, 36; days 
30 22" o iv . In this case the mi duplicator or 

tfimul&TH is 4027, and the divisor or bkftt/ak&m is 3200 
(i.(\ 1 day 3<T 22" 30"' o K are equal to 4 I 1 T £)■ 


(Jh the 
length of 
the boIwt 

year iLCliDlMl- 

iiig to B0J1- 
I li :lL!' Lp : fl, 
Fuli^L. JLlJil 




190 


A L BE RUN PS INDIA , 


Anudiui' 
method far 
fmdltLi* rhu 
nai&krfui ti. 


Sk&tt i 1st ty- 

Uiltkirti . 


Reckoning according to the theory of Pnlisa, we find 
as the length of the solar year 36 5 days 1 5' 3 l " 3 °'" O lT , 
Accordingly, the tjnnakdm would be 1007, t ho bh&tja- 
hdra 800 (i.e. 1 day ] 5' 31" 3 o'" o 1 ' 1 are equal to l M r W)- 

Accordin g to . V ry ab h at a , the leu gth of the s ol ar y e nr 
is 365 days 15' 31" 15"'. In that case the is 

725 and the hJuVpf.hdra. is 572 (*.e. 1 day 15' 31" 15'" are 
equal to -if |), 

Another method for Jlndingthe moment of Rcnit'krdid l 
has been dictated to me by Anliatta (?) f the son of Su- 
iahvi{?\ and is based on the system of Pu lisa. It is this : 

Subtract from the Sakakula 918. multiply the re- 
mainder by 1007, add to the product 79, and divide the 
s tim by SOD. D i v ide th 0 qu ot ia n t by 7 . r I 'h 0 r e m a in d e r 
you get is the basis. What now must for each sign be 
added to the hauis, as has already been mentioned (if 
1 88), is indicated by the following table opposite to each 

sum : — 
o 


"Hie ftarHacal sign*. 

What must lie 
ml iiert to the 
Ban*. 

Thu KohUmmlI si^na. 

What ] jj 1 1 ri1> he 
milled Id Che 

Days. 

Uhmi. 

1 

Uayii. 

Oluvu. 

Arles , 

i 

35 

Libra . 

6 

31 

Tamms 

4 

33 

Scorpio 

I 

23 

Gemini 

□ 

39 

Arc»tenen» , 

2 

11 

Cancer 

4 

34 

C&pmonmf? 

4 

10 

Leo . 

1 

6 

Amphora . 

5 

34 

Virgo . 

4 

6 

Pisces. 

0 



V aril h am ihi ra m ain tain s in I. ] le Fan mxi* Idh d 
that the shad a&Uiu i uLha is in the same degree pro- 
pitious as the time of >imiihrdnPi for acquiring in it 
infinite heavenly reward. This is the moment, of the 
surfs entering:- The 1 8th degree of fie mini ; the 14th 
degree of Virgo ; the 26th degree of Arcittmens ; and the 
28th degree of Pisces. 

The moment of the sun’s entering the fixed signs 


CHAPTER LX X VI L 


191 

is four times as propitious as the moment of his 
entering- the other signs* For each of these times 
they compute the beginning and the end by means 
of the radius of the sun in the same way as they 
compute the minutes of the sun's or moon’s entering 
anti leaving the shadow at an eclipse. This method is 
well known in their mnones* We, however, communi- 
cate hero only those of their methods of calculation 
which we think remarkable, or which, as far as we 
know, have not yet been explained before Muslim ears* 
as Muslims know of the methods of the Hindus only 
those which are found in the Sind-hind. 

Most propitious times are, further* the times of solar 
and lunar eclipses. At that time, according to t heir 
belief, all the waters of the earth become as pure as that 
of the Ganges. They exaggerate the veneration of 
these Limes to such a degree that many of them commit 
suicide, wishing to die at snob a time as promises them 
heavenly bliss. However, this is only done by Taisyas 
and Sudras, whilst, it is forbidden to Brahmans and 
Kshatnyas, who in consequence do not commit suicide 
(•ride, however, H + fjo)* 

Further, the t trues of Pitmen are propitious, Le. those 
times in which an eclipse may take place. And even 
if there is no eclipse at such a time, it is considered 
quite as propitious as the time of an eclipse itself. 

The times of the yoyn# are as propitious as those of 
the eclipses. We have devoted a special chapter to 
them (chap. txxix.J, 

If it happens within the course of one civil day that 
the moon revolves in the latter part of some station, 
then enters the following station, proceeds through the 
whole of it and enters a third station, so that in one 
single day she stands in three consecutive stations, such 
a day is called trihmytaka (?)* and also triharhisha (?). 
It is an unlucky day, being evil, and it is counted 
among the p-unyakdla. (See LL 187.) 


Tltnen of 
eclipse*. 


ParrrtB and 


Unlucky 

cUy*. 


ring* -J94, 


ALERRUNPS INDIA , 


Times 

of 

qunkefl. 


The same applies to that civil day which compre- 
hends a complete lunar day, whose beginning, besides, 
falls in the latter part of the preceding lunar day, 
and whose end falls in the beginning of the following 
lunar day. Such a day is called irahayuttata (?). It 
is unlucky, but favourable to earn in it a heavenly 
reward . 

When the days of fitairdiru^ he. the day * ■ of the de- 
crease (see ii. 2;) f sum up so as to form one complete 
day, it is unlucky and reckoned among the punya- 
Mia . This takes place according to Brahmagupta 
in civil days, 62^^ solar days, 63-^f M 

lunar days. 

According to Pu lisa., it takes place in civil 

days, 63-^Jf!! lunar days, solar days. 

The moment when a complete leap-month without, 
any fraction is summed up. Is unlucky, and is not 
reckons d am eng th e fn m yaMla* A cco rd i 11 g to I >rah m a- 
gupta, this takes place in ggo^^l civil days, 976 -W,- 
solar days, icxxT^y'i lunar days. 

Times which are considered as unlucky , to which no 
merit whatsoever is attributed, are, c.y. } the times of 
earthquakes. Then the Hindus beat with the pots of 
their households against the earth and break them, in 
order to get a good omen and to banish the mishap. 
As times of a similar ill nature, the book StwnMtd 
further enumerates the moments of landslips, the fall- 
ing of stars, red glow in the sky, the combustion of 
the earth by lightning, the appearance of comets, the 
occurrence of events contrary both to nature and 
custom, the entering of the wild beasts into the villages, 
rainfall when it is not the season for it, the trees 
putting forth leaves when it is not the season for it, 
when the nature of one season of the year seems trans- 
ferred to another, and more of the like. 

The book SHUlhava^ attributed to Maliftdova. says 
the following ; 


CHAPTER L XX VI L 


193 


f * The fovnvmg days, i.e. the unlucky ones — for thus 
they call them — Eire : 

■ The second days of the white and black halves of 
the months Oaitra and P&nsha ; 

“ The fourth days of the two halves of the months 
Jyaiahtha and Phillguna. ; 

r ['Ue sixth days of the two halves of the months 
Srftvana and Vaifikha ; 

^ The eighth days of the two halves of the months 
Ashadha and Aivayuja ■ 

£: Tlie tenth days of the two halves of the months 
Margaslrsba and Bhadrapada; 

t4 The twelfth days of the two halves of the month 

Karttika," 


Quotation 
from Uls 
bunk .&'[{■■ 
i'ti of 

MaMde fft, 


( c 94 > 


CHAPTER LXXYI1L 

ON TEE KA.lt ANAS. 

Expiation We have already spoken of the lunar days called tithi, 
' and have explained that each lunar day is shorter than 
a civil day, because the lunar month has thirty lunar 
days, but only a little more than twenty -nine and a half 
civil days. 

As the Hindus call these tithia nychtbemera, they 
also call the former half of a HtM day. the latter half 
night* haoh of these halves has a separate name, and 
they all of them (i.e. all the halves of the lunar days of 
the lunar month) are called karanaa. 

Furpil and Some of the names of the katanas occur only once 
tarfiHcifl. in a month and are not repeated, viz. four of them 
about the time of new moon, which are called the jh:ed 
ones, because they occur only once in the month, and 
because they always fall on the same day and night of 
the month. 

Others of them revolve and occur eight times in a 
month. They are called the movable ones, because of 
their revolving, and because each one of them may as 
well fall on a day as on a night. They are seven in 
number, and the seventh or last of them is an unlucky 
day, by which they frighten their children, the simple 
mention of which makes the hairs on the head of their 
boys stand on end. We have given an exhaustive 
Pajs*a 9 s. description of the fcamtfas in another book of ours. 

They are mentioned in every Indian book on astronomy 
an d m ath email os. 


CHAPTER LX XV II L iq$ 

If you want to know the fern, first determine the 
Umar days, and find out in what pa ft of them the date 
In question falls, which is done in this way : — ■ 

Subtract the corrected place of the sun from the 
corrected place of the moon. The remainder is the 
distance between them. IE it is less than six zodiacal 
signs, the date falls in the white half of the month ; 
if it is more, it falls in the black half. 

lied uce this number to minutes, and divide the pro- 
duct by 720, The quotient represents fAtMs, ie, com- 
plete lunar days. If you get by the division a re- 
mainder, multiply it by 60 and divide the product by 
the mean The quotient represents grafts and 

minor fractions, £.0* that portion of the current day 
which has already elapsed. 

This is the method of the canaries of the Hindus. 
The distance between the corrected places of sun and 
moon must be divided by the mean blut/dL This, how- 
ever, is impossible for many of the days. Therefore 
they divide this distance by the difference between 
the daily revolutions of sun and moon, which they 
reckon for the moon as 13 degrees, for the sun as [ 
degree. 

It is a favourite method in rules of this kind, especi- 
ally in Indian ones, to reckon by the mean motion of 
sun and moon. The mean motion of the sun is sub* 
traded from the mean motion of the moon, and the 
remainder is divided by 732, which is the difference 
between their two middle hhalil s\ The quotient then 
represents days and gka$&* 

The word fadd is of Indian origin, In the Indian 
language it is Ihv.Mi ( = the daily motion of a planet). 
If the corrected motion is meant, it is called hhddi 
sphutiL If the mean motion is meant, it is called 
hhtd'U madlt-j/mia y and if the hdd which renders equal 
is meant, it is called ihnlriifa-nlimt, i.r, the difference 
between the two hkitktis. 


Hale hnw ta 
find the 
■tcTJ’rtW r^ F 


Eiplniia- 
tlUJ I Ml 
hfmkt u 


T96 


A LB BRUNTS INDIA , 


Naiuaa of 
the lunar 
diiys of the 
linn of n 
month- 


The lunar days of the- month ha\ 7 e special names, 
which we exhibit in the following diagram. If you 
know the lunar day in which you are, you find, by the 
side of the number of the day, its name, and opposite 
it the harana in which you are. If that which has 
elapsed of the current day is less than half a day, the 
Tirana is a diurnal one ; if that which has elapsed of 
it is more than half a day, it is a nocturnal one. This 
is the diagram ; — - 


Ttu 1 white lin Jf. 


TLie bjjvck half. 


The iiT j'ft.Mf r^- are rmnniun to lluth 
3m 1 vcs. 

Th , 

M ft 

- n 

- 

a -P 

llluir Humus, 

1 ft 

iH 

■It 

J=_l 

P O 

Their nude*. 

i Sr 

§■= 

EE 

m 

Pi 

Their ti am 

| *e 

s 41 
•a; “ 
r- h-i 
r* c 

Their nameg- 

In dtythne. 

Til the night. 

i 

Amin, 

Q 

o 

0 

O 

D 

0 

Catrtghp&da. 

NiVera, 

2 

Barkhu. 

0 

□ 

o 

0 

Q 

O 

Kinstugliiia, 

Bava- 

3 

Hiytu 

TO 

Nnvin. 

17 

Barkhu. 

24 

A tin* 

BalaviL. 

Kanlava, 

4 

Trijti. 

II 

Dahln. 

lS 

Bijru 

25 

Navin. 

Taitila. 

Gam. 

5 

Can U 

12 

mi, 

ly 

Trija. 

26 

Dakin, 

Baiilj. 

VtofatL 

6 

Panel. 

'3 

DnviihL 

20 

Caut. 

3.7 

xm. 

tiavn* 

BAS am 

7 

Sat, 

14 

Trolil. 

21 

Panel. 

2 S 

Duv&hi. 

Kaulava* 

Taitila 

8 

Satin* 

15 

Caodahi 

22 

Sat, 

29 

Trrihk 

Gam. 

Banij. 

9 

A tin. 

ift 

i Ptimimfl | 

( pabc&hi. j 


Satin, 

0 

0 

Yishti. 

Bava. 

o 

o 

o 

0 

o 

D 

30 

Caudahl- 

Vishti* 

Sakuni. 


CHAPTER LX XV HR 


ALB E RUN PS INDIA , 


198 

Table ur The Hindus attribute to some of tlm karanm tbmi- 
naufcs, as is their custom. Further 1 hey give rules 
showing what during; each learana must be dune or not, 
rules which are similar to codec! ions of astrological 
prognostics (as to lucky or unlucky days. &c,). If we 
give here a second diagram of the kamnti* t we thereby 
simply mean to confirm what we have said already, and 
to repeat a subject, which is unknown among us. Thus 
it is rendered easy to- learn the subject-^ because learning 
is the fruit of repetition* 


THE FOUIl FIXED K ARANAS 


i p a«s nrjlfi. 

*r- 

P 


□3 



& X — 
■§£« 

‘it p 

JS p 

■jS 

% 5 

I'Jit pnu^iiuEtit-s iff Lin- kit rA .w?, unJ eVjj- wJlkL 


'A £ C? 

- S 

C" E 

c 

thing utttli ot Lfcitui i> iuvuUi'uble. 


M 

0 

uZ S2 

.3 

M 

54 

-=K 

M 

Favourable for Lhe action of medicines, of 

l]lTfghl UgaiflSL- tllO liitf! of rl.-Tp<!l|l (if ill 

i>m 1 =- . of lL j mM.tEng T nf emiiioil-hnlih 

ing + aud of reciting holy tats before the 

I idols, 

h! 

-J 

V 

flj 

4 

1 

zT 

CJ 

-j3 

rt 

■u 

Tt; * 

■sl 

- 

Qj nl 

— ^ 

r- ™ 

Favourable for placing el king on a thrum:, 
giving alms in the name of the Father*, 
for rjutkUig use bf four’ footed animals in 
agriculture, 

i 

5^ 

14 

1 

Pf 

l'av 1 i-uvi 1 bl e fur wed di n jrs , 1 a y in g a f i uj i;H:l- 
ticin-stone, nxiHiiini.ug 1 he state of snake* 
bitten persons, fur frightening people un-.l 
seising them. 


1 

t? 

d 

Ruins all actions and is favourable only 


1* 

r> 

for things connected with marritige, For 


1 

£ 

ihe oouHtrucrtoji uf parasols, the piercing 


a 

S 

H 

at t he cars, and for works of piety P 


iii which hull 

Both in the white and the black halv-eia "h£ Lias tutmiki 

! they mil. 


CHAPTER LX XV Hi. 

TUB 6KVT5K MOVABLE KAlLlNAfi. 


Itjij 




■a s 
l! 

H R 

J_ SL 

■E Ji 

el 

174 R 

B 

■B 

The priijjno sties of the iiirffyu*, fitnl for what 
thing each of them is favourable. 

fti 

R 

'iTj^na 

' 

When lb ere is a in Ibis Jiu-mur*, 

it is sitting, and the fruits w51J t during it, i 
sLiff^j- some a Mishap- It is favourable for 
travelling. for beginning with thitsge which 
are intended to last long, for cleaning 
oneself, for compounding the drugs which 
make the women fat, and for the sacrifices 
winch the Urn h mans offer to the fire. 


Brahman. 

When there Is fl wtmMnti h it, it. hutting, 
not good for the fruits, Ji. is favourable 
for the affairs oE future life, and for ac- 
qniringa heavenly reward. 

rt 

M 

3 

a 

r- 

II 

When there is a iajkl'nhtti in it. ii is stond- 
ing. AH that is sown in it will prosper 
and rlrop * if, li succulence* It is favour- 
able for making friendships with people. 


. 

When then: ia a xarfdrttnti in it, iL is 

JS 

3 

stretched on tJ\c ground. It indicates that 

5g 


the prices will sink, and is favourable for 

H 


i.l i.o kneading nf 3 to matin unguents and 



tbs compounding of perfumes. 



Wlien there is. a $\t/iih r <i<nti in if, it is 

4 

2 

xlretchid an the yrututd. It. indicates thaL 

3-- 

a 

> 

Lin.! prices will be depressed, and is favour- 

O 

i 

able for sowing and laying the founda- 


F 1 -! 

tion- stone of a building. 

, 


When there is a wthkrttnti in it, it is af;rn<f- 

'=■ 

X 

irtg r Ad corn will prosper (/nr: unci), and 



is favourable for commerce. 



When there is a mmA'rdfdi in it, iL is 

,4 

*1 

fit retched ovt the ground, if indicates that 

3' 

S3 

H 

the prices will be hi su indent* Ji is not 


n 

g 

favourable for anything save the crush- 



ing of the sugar-cane, Lt is considered as 



unlucky and is not good for travelling. 


200 


ALBBRUNJ'S INDTA . 


RiiIl= for the 
competi- 
tion of tfac 
jiMBrtWMtfl. 
PitgQ SQj. 


T]ie i&ru mt.-i 
us honu'wed 
by Alkindi 
;ind ocher 
Amu 
mu thorn. 


ll ym.i want to find the ktuvauw by computation, 
subtract the corrected place of the sun from that of 
the moon, reduce the remainder to minutes and divide 
the number of them by 360, The quotient represents 
complete htvm%m* ^ 

What remains after the division is multiplied by 60, 
and divided by the kkvldyawMra* The quotient re- 
presents how much has elapsed of the current karomt. 
Every unit of the number is equal to half a fjkitlL 
We now return to the complete km'ff.nm, If they 
are two or less, you are in the second km.ua, lit that 
case you add one to the number and count the sum off, 
begin n i 1 \g w it 1 1 ca £■ iw 1 ft - „ 

If the number of kuranas is 59, you are in mktovi. 

If it is less than 59 and mom than two, add mie to 
them and divide the sum by seven. The remai nder, if 
it is not more than seven, count off, beginning with the 
beginning of the cycle of the movahle kanvnm, i.e , with 
bavtf. Thereby you. will arrive at the name of the 
current karma in which you happen to be. 

Wishing to remind the reader of something relating 
to the lara nets which he perhaps lias forgotten, we 
must tell him that Alkindi and others like him have 
hit upon the system of the kar>:t.ncL% but one which was 
not sufficiently explained. They did not comprehend 
the method of those who usa the hfrrinm- At one 
time they trace them back t.o Indian, another time to 
Babylonian origin, declaring all the time that they are 
altered on purpose and corrupted by the inadvertence 
of the copyists. They have invented a calculation for 
them which proceeds in a better order than even the 
original method Itself. But thereby the thing has 
become something totally different from what it origi- 
nally was. Their method is this : they count half days, 
beginning with new moon. The first twelve hours they 
regard as belonging to the sun, as hnrnhuf i i& unlucky, 
the next twelve hours as belonging to Venus, th ■ 


CHAPTER LX XVI II. 


201 


following twelve hours as belonging to Mercury, and 
so on according to the order of the planets. Whenever 
the order returns to the sun, they call bis twelve 
hours the hour* of AlbUt^ i.e, vishfL 

However, the Hindus do not measure the lemmas 
by civil, hut by lunar days, ?ior do they begin with those 
burnmg hours following upon new moon. Accord- 
ing to the calculation of Alkindh people begin, after 
new moon, with Jupiter ; in that ease the periods of 
the son are not but' fling* On the other hand, if they 
begin, according to the method of the Hindus, after 
new moon with (he sum the hours of rkhti belong 
to Mercury. Therefore, each method, that of the 
Hindus and that of Alkindi, must be treated sepa- 
rately. 

Because vuhfJ recurs eight times in a. month, and 
because the points of the compass are eight, we shall 
exhibit in the eight fields of the following table their 
^WpoAayaiif^rix regarding the torn nan, observations the 
like of which are made by all astrologers regarding 
the shapes of the planets and regarding those stars 
which rise in the single third parts of the zodiacal 
signs. 


1 « ^ 

£ 

dS s +d ‘ 

c ^ 

= s 

1 it 

1= 

ii 

- ■£ 
if 

JC > 

£ 

f S' 

Sr-, 

<r _ 

ts in 

IS 

£•5 

] i:.U*THiS . .i- 1 1I K SISUi.i; 

J| Yl>im& p 

v « 

>j. r - r 

§S| 

'Si* 

j - 

irt 

<D 

= ’-™ 

'a 

n 

+j 

fl 

f— i 


LT. 

i 

H ha* three eyes. The hair 
on its head :h li'<e growing 
sugar-cane, hi one hand ii 
has an iron hook, in the 
other u black serpent. It is 
st roi i £ 1 1 'I v iolei 1 1 like r n ri - 
ning water.. Ii has a kmy 
Li mgufj. ! t* l] ay is a n 3 y good 
for war, and those; aetiuhs 
in which there is deception 
and falsification. 

«s 

5 

’le? 

6 
r T- 

£ 


PlLgU i-yfi. 


in. IL Their utimb«m. 


302 


ALBERUNfS INDIA. 



T=! 


K 




In^riLtlr-J'Jija ol’ tHH KiXdU; 
J ‘ Vistula” 


[\ is greet], nud ha a n sword 
in its band, l.\s place is in 
the lightning, thnnclering t 
stormy , an d cold r. ;1 oi ; « ! . 1 i.s 

time is favourable for tear- 
ing out fair Rising herbs, for 
drinking medicine, for cdiu- 
nuTijc, ami for casting gold 
in a mould. 


5 L has a black face, thick Ups. 
bushy eyebrows, long hair 
of the ! i da d . J l U long . aj id 
rtdi a d uri s i g its day. I n t h e 
hand it has a sword t it is 
intent upon devouring inra, 
it eiuit s fu-e from its mouth, 
and says M L? hd. Its time 
Is nly good for lighting, for 
killing miscreants, for cur- 
ing ill people, and for fetch- 
ing aerpenUs out of their 
holes. 



Ti has 13 vi 1 faces and tori eyes, 
llr-. time is favourable for 
punishing rebels, for divid- 
ing tlie army into single 
corps, During- h a man 
m us I- not turn with his face 
towards the direction where 
it rises. 


+j -- 

.tp* 

H 


II. is like a smoky fin me. Tr- 
ims three beads, in each 
three eyes- turned upside 
down. Its hair is standing 
on end. It sits on the head 
of a human being, it screams 
like thunder. It U angry r 
devours men. It holds in 
one hand a knife, in the 
other nn axe. 


I Thuir miiutp 

accord Lap Hi tLsf 
book Srlidhn pa T 


'braqiuuu ■cj’it[,i, ‘ ! A 1IA I1IA 


chapter lxxvht 


203 


sul 

31 ' 

* : 


%£ 

11 

■LS 


III 

p- 

A C 


IJHuCMmOS OF THF tiljyni.K 

" Vtshtis." 


J3 





It is white, Isas three eyes, 




and rides on an elephant, 





which always remains the 


qe 



same. lu 'the arm band 


-3 



lie lias a huge rock, in the 


ts 

rO 



other a mjra of iron, which 


Cl 


j 

it throws. It destroys the 


£ 


li- over which ir rises. 


-r^ 


'p. 

lie wtm make* war coming 


C 



from the direction whence 




Sq 

it rases will be victorious. 


r C 



A mar must not turn with 


— 



Ids face 1 owftnls if* when 





tearing out fattening herbs. 





digging out treasures, and 
trying to satisfy the want? 
of life. 


_ 



El ha hi the colour of crystal* 


'•S 

H 



Jn one bandit holds a three- 


if 



fold parutmclkit, and in the 


Xi 

+S 



other a rosary. It look* 

-vj 

4; - 
0 

+j! ^ 


pd 

0 

towards heaven, and. cays 
h <t h% hd. It. rides* on an 
ox. Its time is favo arable 

£ 

j-. 

rt 

X- 

9 



for handing over the chil- 


oi 

'S 



dren to the schools, for con- 
cluding peace, giving aims.. 


d 



and works of piety. 


a 

si 

■+j 

■+-1 

Q 

-3 


It is p i s t a e h i 0 - col 0 u r ed like a 
parrot. It looks like shnae- 
fching globular, and lias 
three eye*, in one band 
it. Ei ns a j r'ii'i c 1.': with an iron 
hook, in the other a sharp 
discus, 1 1 s its un i Ls th r one , 
f i' 2 27I itc n i j' !=r | j« JO ple, a 0 c I say - 
ing sd ffif ad- Its Lime is 
not. f&vou I'riVde for beginning 
anything, ft is only good 
for d oi ng se r v ic e 1 0 rel atiol 1 > 
and for house- work- 


( 204 } 


OHAPTJER IAXJ.X, 

ON THE TOGAS, 

These are times which the Hindus think to be most 
unlucky and during which they abstain from all action* 
They are numerous* We shall here mention them. 

!■; * pi&iiiUicm There are two mms regarding which all Hindus 

ntVyvlWM , r ‘ S & 

rm.-t agree, viz. : — 

( i *) Th e mom en t when sun an d moon t oge ther stand 
on two circles, which are, as it were, -mz-inff each other, 
i.e r each pair of circles, the declinations of which, on 
one and the same side (of either solstice), are equal. 
This j/offci is called w/alipata, 

(2.) The moment when sun and moon stand together 
on two equal circles, Le. each pair of circles, the de- 
clinations of which, on different sides (of either solstice), 
arc equal* This is called I'aidhrita* 

It is (In 1 tfif/HtWH of the former that In if the mm of 
the corrected places of sun and moon represents In any 
case the distance of six zodiacal signs from o' : of Aries, 
while It is the mputw for the latter that the same sum 
t epr e sen ts fcl ie d i st ance of t w el ve si gn s t If v o n com put© 
tJie corrected places of sun and moon for a certain time 
and add them together, the sum is either of these rif/na, 
Le. either of these two yofjm. 

If, however, the sum is loss than the amount of the 
dgmun or larger, in that case the time of equality (Le* 
the time when the sum ts equal to either of the m§nci) 
is computed by means of the difference "between, this 
sum and the term in question, and by means of the 


CHAPTER LX XIX. 205 

s n rj] of tha two hhitldi of aun and moon instead of the 
bhuktyaidara, in the same maimer as in the canones 
the time of full moon and opposition is computed. 

If you know the distance of the moment from noon 
or midnight, whether you correct the places of sun and 
moon according to the one or the other, its time is 
called the middle one. For i£ the moon followed the 
ecliptic as accurately as the suu 5 this time would lie 
that which we want to iind. However, the moon 
deviates from the ecliptic. Therefore, she does not at 
that time stand on the circle of the sun or on the circle 
which, as far as observation goes, is equal to it- For 
this reason the places of sun and moon and the dragon's 
head and tail are computed for the wvhlh- time. 

According to this time they compute the declinations 
of sun and moon- If they are equal, this is the time 
which is sought for. If not, you consider the dedica- 
tion of the moon. 

If, in computing it, you have added her latitude to 
the declination of the degree which she occupies, you 
subtract the latitude of the moon from the declination 
of the sun. However, if, in computing it, you have 
subtracted her latitude from the degree w hich the moon 
occupies, you add her latitude to the declination of the 
sun. The result is reduced to arcs by the tables of the 
kamdajdi of declination, and these arcs are kept in 
memory. They arc the same which are used in the 
canon If a 1 'it v (dil t < ha . 

Further, you observe the moon at the middle time. 
If she stands in some of the odd quarters of the ecliptic, 
i.c. the vernal and autumnal ones, whilst her declina- 
tion is less than the declination of the sun, in that, case 
the time of the two declinations equalling each other — 
and that is what we want to find — falls afl&r the muhUe, 
ij\ the future one ; but if the declination of the moon 
is larger than that of the sun. it falls before the middle, 
ij\ l he past one. 


On 

time. 


MgUigkI fur 
c-nmji*.! tinjy 
vyit ( Tjij !'•:« 
und. rrtLcfS- 
vUcr. 


2 o 6 


A LB BRUNTS INDIA. 


Anotij^ r 
moLhfKl ijy 
Fuliim, 


iw. 


If the moon stands in the. even quarters of the 
ecliptic (ie, the summer and winter quarters), just the 
reverse takes place. 

Fulisa adds together the declinations of son and 
moon in vijaMpdia^ if they stand on different sides of 
the solstice, and in midkrita, if they stand on the same 
side of the solstice. Further, he takes the difference 
between the declinations of sun and moon in tfyalip&ta, 
if they stand on the same side, and in raidhrUa, if they 
stand on different sides. This is the first value which 
is kept: in memory, ?',<?, the mvklle time, 

F mother, be reduces the minutes of the days to mdslms^ 
supposing that they are less than one- fourth of a day. 
Then he computes their motions by means of Lhe bkuldi 
of sun and moon and the dragon's head and tail, and 
he computes their- places according to the amount of 
middle time, which they occupy, in the past and the 
future. This is the second value which is kept in 
memory. 

By this m et hod he manages to find out tl i e con di t ion 
of the past and the future, and compares it with the 
middle time. If the time of the two declinations 
equalling each other for both sun and moon is past 
or future, in that case the difference between the two 
values kept in memory is the poe l to ddmdouis (divisor) ; 
but if it is past for the one and future for the other, 
the sum of the two values kept in memory is the portio 
ditidmm. 

Further, he multiplies the minutes of the days, which 
have been found, by the first value kept in memory, 
and divides the product by the portio dividams. The 
quotient represents the minutes of the distance from the 
middle time which minutes may either be past or future. 
Thus the time of the two declinations equalling each 
Other becomes known. 

The author of the can cm Kwmmdihika makes ns 
return to the arc of the decimation which lias been 


CHAPTER LX XIX, 


207 

kept- in memory. If the corrected place of the moon 
Is less than three zodiacal signs, it is that which we 
want ^ if it is between three and six signs, he subtracts 
it from six signs^, and if it is between six and nine 
signs, he adds six signs thereto 5 if it is more than nine 
signs , he subtracts it. from twelve signs „ Thereby ho 
gets the second, place of the moon, and this he compares 
with the moon’s place at the time of the correction, 
if the second place of the moon is less than the first, 
the Lime of the two declinations equalling each other is 
future ; if it is more than the first, the time of their 
equalling each other is past. 

Further, he multiplies the difference between the two 
places of the moon by the bkukti of the sun, and divides 
the product by the hlmMi of the moon. The quotient 
he adds to the place of the sun at the time of the cor- 
rection, if the second place of the moon is larger than 
the first j but he subtracts it from the sun’s place, if the 
second place of the moon is less than the first. Thereby 
he finds the place of the sun for the time when the two 
declinations are equal to each other. 

For the purpose of finding it. he divides the difference 
between the two places of the moon by the bJiuMi of 
the moon. The quotient gives minutes of days, indi- 
cative of the distance. By means of them he com- 
putes the places of sun and moon, of the dragon’s head 
and tail, and of the two declinations. If the latter are 
equal, it is that which we want to find. If they are 
not equal, the author repeats the calculation so long 
till they are equal and till the correct time has been 
found. 

Thereupon he computes the measure of sun and moon. 
However, be disregards half of the sum of them, so that 
in the further calculation lie uses only the one half of 
their measures. He multiplies it by 60 and divides the 
product by the b/iuJdt/anlara. The quotient represents 
the minutes of the falling (jy&ta ?)„ 


Another 
method bj 7 
t'nc author 
of t he Kara- 


Tliflautluir's 
books on the 
aubjeot. 


jihnaiE 1 he 

papas 

unlucky* 


Quotation 
from Bfcup- 

1 1 1 .1 (?) njn 

nulneky 

times 


208 ALB ER UNI'S IND I A , 

The correct time, which has been found, is marked 
in three different places. From the first number he 
subtracts the minutes of the falling* and to the last 
number he adds them. Then the first number is the 
time of the beginning of tyatlpMa or vaidhritet, which- 
ever of the two you want to com pate. The second 
number is the time of its middle, and the third number 
tho time of its end. 

We have given a detailed account of the bases on 
which these methods rest in a special book of ours, 
called Kk ttydl- alha s r Afni n i (i.e. the image of the two 
eclipses), and have given an accurate description of 
them in the canon which we have composed for Sf/dva- 
bfda (?), the Kashmirian, and to which we have given 
the title The Arabic IGi^i/ddrMd^aka, 

bthattila (?) thinks the whole day of either of these 
two yogas to be unlucky, whilst Yamhamihira thinks 
only that duration of them to bo unlucky which is found 
by the computation. He compares the unlucky por- 
tion of the day to the wound of a gazelle shot with a 
poisoned arrow. The disease does not go beyond the 
environs of the poisoned shot ; if it is cut out, the in jury 
is removed. 

According to what Pu lisa mentions of Parfisam J the 
Hindus assume a number of vyaiip&t&s in the lunar 
stations, but all of them are computed by the saute 
method which he has given. For the calculation does 
not increase in its kind ; only the single specimens of it 
become more numerous. 

The Brahman Bhatt-ila (?) says in his canon: — 
li Here there are 8 times, which have certain gauge- 
m e asu re s. I f tt ie s um of th e cor re ct e d pi ace s of su nan d 
moon is equal to them, they are unlucky. They are: 

f( i, Bak-sh'itia (?), Its gauge-measure is 4 zodiacal 
signs, 

“2. Its gauge- measure is 4 signs and 

13I degrees. 


CHAPTER LX XIX. 


209 


t; 3. Ltita (?), or the general Pgatipdla. Its gauge- 
measure is 6 signs. 

“4. Cam (?). Its gauge-measure is 6 signs and 6§ 
degrees. 

<f J, ftfW/- (?), also nailed hirhvyutvp&ia. Its gauge - 
measure is 7 signs and i6f degrees. 

“ Kidadanda. Its gauge-measure is S signs and 
1 3 }. degrees. 

7. VydsJkUti (?). Its gauge-measure is 9 signs 
and 23 1 degrees, 

Si 8. FftiiAWta. Its gauge-measure is 12 signs.” 

These yogas are well known, but. they cannot all be 
traced back to a role in the same way as the 3d and 
8th ones. Therefore they have no certain duration 
determined by minutes of the falling, but only by 
general estimates. Thus the duration of vyAhsliMa (?) 
and of bakshMa (?) is one muhihia, according to the 
statement of Varubamihira, the duration of Ganijtlnia 
and of Barb (?) two wimh&rim. 

The Hindus propound this subject at great length 
and with much detail, but to no purpose. We have 
given an account of it in the above-mentioned book. 
(See ii. 20S.) 

The canon Kwrawatih ika mentions twenty-seven 
yogas, which are computed in the following manner: 

Add the corrected place of the sun to that of the 
moon, reduce the whole sum to minute a, and divide the 
number by 800. The quotient represents complete 
yogas* Multiply the remainder by 6o ? and divide the 
product by the sum of the. hhuJdu of sun and moon. 
The quotient represents the minutes of days and minor 
fractions, viz. that time which has elapsed of the cur- 
rent J/0(/(L 

\\ 7 e, have copied the names and qualities of the 
yogas from Snpala, and exhibit them in the following 
fable 


TTVCtltv- 
■SGven ytjffa - j 

LiccotTdbjg to 
t be Ko rmfa - 
1 1 taka. 

Ua^e 301, 


TOL. TT. 


0 





TABLE 

0 I-’ THE TWENTY -&E VEN ' 1 V Of! AS . 15 



The 

ULlSJil- 

ber. 

Their Games, 

Whether 
JtQCHl i>L‘ inuL 

The 

number. 

Their mimes. 

Whether 
grhocT or 1 »&■.!. 

The 

number. 

Their names. 

W I u;t her 
*00d or bud. 

l 

Yishkambiia. 

Good. 

. to 

Gan da. 

Bail. 

19 

Barkgha, 

Bad. 

2 

PrJti 

Good. 

IT 

V riddki* 

Good, 

20 

Miva. 

Good. 

3 

Edjakama (?}, 

Bad, 

12 

Bhruva. 

Good. 

21 

Btdtiha. 

Good* 

4 

Sanbh figy*. 

Good. 

13 

YyAglxlta (?) 

Bad. 

22 

Sftdliya* 

Meddling. 

5 

Bobhana, 

Good* 

T 4 

Harshaita. 

Good. 

23 

Snbba. 

Good. 

6 

Atig&mla. 

Bad. 

15 

Vajm. 

Bad* 

24 

Sakra. 

Good, 

7 

Sukarman. 

Good. 

16 

SiddhL 

Good, 

?5 

Brahman, 

Good. 

S 

Dbrjtl, 

Good. 

i; 

K-tt-n-Ata (1). 

Bad, 

26 

1 ndra. 

Good. 

9 

&11*. 

Bad* 

tS 

Vaadyas, 

Bad. 

^ 1 

Vaidhri tL 

Bad. 


2io ALBERUNPS INDIA. 


( 211 ) 


CHAPTER LX XX. 

OS' THR INTRODUCTORY PlIlSCIPI-RS OF HINDU ASTROLOGY, 

WITH A SHORT DESCRIPTION of their methods of 

ASTROLOGICAL CALCULATION S* 

Our fellow-believers in these (Muslim) countries are 
not acquainted with the Hindu methods of astrology, 
and have never had an opportunity of studying an 
Indian hook on the subject. In consequence, they 
imagine that Hindu astrology is the same as theirs and 
relate all sorts of things as. being of Indian origin, of 
which wo have not found a single trace with the 
Hindus themselves. As in the preceding part of this 
our book we have given something of everything, wo 
shall also give as much of their astrological doctrine as 
will enable the reader to discuss questions of a similar 
nature with them. If we were to give an exhaustive 
representation of the subject, this task would detain us 
very long, even if we limited ourselves to delineate 
only the leading principles and avoided all details* 
First, the reader must know that in most of their 
prognostics they simply rely on means like auguring 
f r cm 111 e 9 i gh t of bi rd s and ph y siogri o r n y . th at th ey d o 
Tint. — as they ought to do — draw conclusions, regarding 
the affairs of the sublunary world, from the seconds 
(m) of the stars, which are the events of the celestial 
sphere. 

Regarding the number seven as that of the planets* 
there is no difference between us and them* They call 
them tjTttluu Some o.f them are throughout lucky, viz* 


ImlijiEi 
ast rnkitfy 
unkuown 
iiinoiip 
M it hiim- 
TttlitbiltR. 


Png* 3 (i 2 , 


On OlH 

ptwets, 


2J2 


A LEER UN VS INDIA . 


Jupiter, Venus and the Moon, which are called wum- 
yayraha. Other three are throughout unlucky, via, 
Saturn j Mars, and the Sun, which are called krtratjvaKa. 
Among the latter, they also count the dragon's head, 
though in reality it is not a star. The nature of one 
planet is variable and depends upon the nature of that 
planet with which it is combined* whether it be lucky 
or unlucky. This is Mercury. However, alone by 
itself* it is lucky. 

The following table represents the natures of the 
seven planets and everything else concerning them ; — 


Xam « 0 / th r pi a mis. 

Sun, 

Moon* 

Mars. 

Mercury. 

Jupiter. 

Vnim, 

Saturn* 


Whether they are 
lucky or unlucky, 

Unlucky. 

Dicky, but ilc- 
[tenclicff upon the 
rUsmat ut m Let 
Midiliit^ in tlit 
first, lucky lu 
the sticoud, ami 
Lizshuiky [ 1 l tli c 
East ten rlaji r>f 
the month. 

Unlucky* 

Lucky, whan 
it is alone* 
Else dopoti fl- 
ing upon, the 
nature of tlte 
planet near it. 

Lucky* 

Lucky. 

Unlucky* 


W hi l l elmneni h 
they indicate. 



Fire. 

Earth* 

Heaven. 

Water. 

Wind, 

S 

Whether they in- 
dicate male or 
female beings. 

Male. 

female. 

Male, 

Neither male 
nor female. 

Male- 

Female. 

Neither nude 
nor female. 

h3 

3 

5c 

Whether they in- 
dicate day or 
night’ 

Day. 

Night. 

Night, 

Day and 
night, to- 
gether. 

Day. 

Day. 

Night. 

h 

>1 

Jh« 

IV hat point of the 
compass they 
indicate. 

East. 

North-west. 

South, 

North* 

North-east. 

Between east- 
and west. 

West* 


What colour they 
indicate. 

Browse- 

colour. 

White, 

Light red. 

Fis tael do- 
green. 

Gold -col our. 

Many 

Colours. 

Block. 


What time they 
indicate. 

Ayana. 

Muhurta. 

Day. 

i.f- a 

hixth f sari of 
the year. 

Month. 

PftJbftft.tl , i.t.\ 
half a month. 

Year, 



.V- ly JJ c.h 0 / CAc ji.lur JJf.i X . 

Sun* 

Mmn. 

Murs. 

.V/r.ir « rjj . 

Jup UdT. 


Saturn, 

What season they 
indicate. 

Q 

Viirslsii, 

OrSshma. 

Sarad* 

Hemanta, 

Vasari ta. 

S-iiira* 

Wha! they 

indicate. 

Bitter. 

Saltish. 


A. mixture of 
all tastes. 

Sweet . 



What material 
ihey indicate. 

Bronze. 

Crystal- 

Gold. 

Small pem-Ls. 

Silver, or if 
i he constella- 
tion is very 

Hi tong* gold. 

Pearl. 

Iron. 

What- dress and 
clothes they 
indicate. 

Thick. 

New, 

Binned, 

Wet. from 
water. 

Between new 
mill bv. 

Whole* 

Burned, 

Whnt fi.n_t.ril they 
indicate. 

Nema (2), 

Aiubu, the 
water. 

A&ci, the 
fire. 

Brahman. 

.Mahadeva . 

Indra. 


What caste they 
indicate. 

Kshatiiyas 
and com- 
manders. 

Vaisyas and 
irnmnianders. 

Kshatriyns 
: i rnl generals. 

.Siidras and 
princes. 

Brahmans 
and minis- 
ters. 

Brahmans 
aiid minis- 
tar e t 


Which Veda they 
indicate. 

□ 

0 

Bfttiwweda. 

Atharvana- 

veda. 

flig’veda* 

Viijmvcrhi. 

o 

The months of 
j ircgnancy. 

The fourth 
month, In 
which the 
bones become 
hard. 

The fifth 
month, in 
which the 
skin appears. 

J'hc second 
month f in 
which the 
einbyro 
: 1 1 1 n.i 1 1 s' coi i - 
sisitcncy. 

The seven 1 h 
month, in 
which the 
oh ili 3 b'ectotno* 
complete and 
receives the 
memory. 

The third 
month, in 
which the 
limbs bepin 
to branch off. 

The first 
month, in 
vvhiah tbL- 
semen and 
the menstrual 
blood become 
mixed. 

The sixth 
month, when 

the hair 

prows. 


314 A LB SR UNI'S IN PI A. 


Character as based 
on the three 
primary forces. 

fiatya. 

S&tya. 

Tanias, 

Hit™. !' rrieudly 
{_ planets. 

J up it cry Mars, 
Moon. 

bun. 

Mercury, 

Jupiter, Sou. 
Moon, 

&tro. f »*“* 

\ planets . 

Saturn, 

Yen ns. 

There Is no 
planet, hostile 
to her. 

Mercury, 

Vi- S Indifferent 
mm-a. ( planets. 

Mer mty. 

Saturn, Jupi- 
ter, Mars, 
Verms, 

Venus, 

Saturn. 

What paths ot the 
body they indicate. 

The bread h 
and the 
bones. 

Tile root of the 
tongue and 
the blood. 

The liesii 
and brain. 

The scale of their 
magnitude. 

i 

2 

& 

Years of ahaddya. 

19 

23 

15 

Years of w- 

Xfl,Tfjktl r 

20 

1 

2 


Kajas. 

Saryn, 

Hajas. 

Tjuaa^i 

Sun, Venus, 

Suji t Moon, 
Mars. 

Saturn, 
Moron ry. 

Venn*, 

Mercury. 

Moon. 

Venus, 

Mercury, 

Sun, Moon. 

Slurs, Sun, 
Moon. 

Saturn, 

J upiter, 
Mark. 

Saturn, 

Jupiter, 

Mars. 

Jupiter. 

Voice and 
skin. 

Ini ellecfc and 
fat. 

iSctncn. 

Sinews, lLc.di 3 
and pain. 

5 

4 

2J (1) 

7 

12 

15 

21 

no 

9 

iS 

20 

SO 


chapter LX XX. 


ExpJaESCi- 
lorj notes 
trf) t.lio 
prguadiNg 
tab]^ 


The moiitba 
Of prog* 
nancy. 


PuEfB in4_ 


Fritudeltip 
und fcnteify 
o / tbc 
planets. 


Tin zodiacal 
signs. 


216 ALBERUNPS INDIA, 

The column of this table which indicates the order 
of the size and power of the planet^ serves for the 
following purpose : — Sometimes two planets indicate 
exactly the same thing] exercise the same influence, and 
stand in the same relation to the event in question. 
In this case, the preference is given to that planet which, 
in the column in question, is described as the larger or 
the more powerful of the two. 

The column relating to the months of pregnancy is to 
be completed by the remark that they consider the eighth 
mouth as standing under the influence of a horoscope 
which causes abortion. According to them, the embryo 
takes, in this month, the fine substances of the food. If 
it takes ail of them and is then born, it will remain 
alive ; bnt if it is born before that, it will die from some 
deficiency in its formation. The ninth month stands 
under the influence of the moon, the tenth under that 
of the sun. They do not speak of a longer duration of 
pregnancy, but if it happens to last longer, they believe 
that, during this time, some injury is brought about by 
the wind. At the time of the horoscope of abortion, 
which they determine by tradition, not by calculation, 
they observe the conditions and influences of the planets 
and give their decision accordingly as this or that planet 
happens to preside over the month in question. 

The question as to the friendship and enmity of the 
planets among each other, us well as the influence of 
the dmiiiw& domtls, is of great importance in their astro- 
logy. Sometimes it. may happen that, at a particular 
m out eu t of tim e, this dowA m uvi e n tir ely lose s its ori gi n al 
character. Further on wo shad give a rule as to the 
computation of the dmmvimn and its single years. 

There is no difference between us and the Hindus 
regarding the number twelve as the number of the 
signs, of the ecliptic, nor regarding the manner in which 
the dominium of the planets is distributed over them. 

The following table shows what qualities are peculiar 
to each zodiacal sign as a whole i— 


CHAPTER LX XX 


217 


*z 

<£ 


a5 



F*i 

T3 

■*j £] 


6 L- 


x 

rs 

t-- 

« 

0 

k 

3 

i 

Hd 

a 

M 

li 

c 

V 

a 

’|| 

_£j s 

DC 







SpA 


. 

ic 


£ 

p 

-H* 

a 

0 

a 

1 

■33 

[3 

| 

■1 

P 

f 

0 

b 

(B 

& 

Sf 

.2 +5 

T3 r -' 

IS 

a? 










T2 

■a *> 

§-? 

si 

s 

~S 

^2 

cs 

« 

l 

0 

4) 

1 

fc 

fcA 

JC 

1 

I J3 T 3 X 

‘t3 9 S 

a* 5 

oft 

ocJ 

i flST^ 

i 

m 










m 

-3 £ 




i4 

-2 

E 

K 

X 

0 


W 

■3 

* V-r 


1 

O 

O 

1 

1 

E 

L> 


&c‘ 

pj 

x! ^ a 

y p 3 
s c- ap 
oc ® 










tc 

i 

p 

y 

dj 

O 

O 

0 

■I? 

*3 

1 

jp 

f 

ip 

s r 

Tj 

s 


XX 

'S £ 

«2 







(A 



tc’ 

p*5 

*5 

a 

£ 

£ 

s 

d 

£ 

- 1-3 

s 

33 

Of 

g 

dj 

!> 

E 

J! 

3 

1 

'a 

P 

2 

33 

^ +- ; 
a | 

c= . 

=s? 

J I 

OO 

1 

ii 

d 

LTj 

f* 

b 


>k 

x 

TD 

0 

5a> 

-S 

-5 — 


i 

S« 

z 

I-S 

t- 

i 

tU 

G 

|3 


P S 

| | 

S w 


^a 


tp 




O 


'.V_ 







fA 



feij 

s 

s 

d 

■K 

0 

O 

1= 

s 

«0 

JG 

S3 

| 

"£ 

p 

K% 

1 

sd 

sq 

r£ " 

"3 7j 
d g 

£ 5 

J Ti 










"3 

1 

■Q 

j 

•3 

1 

O 

_5 

! 

t 

p 

^.5 

S5 

® TJ 

X X c 

a 

d a p 


X 


•"S 


£b< 

P 


SB 

l a& 

*j 1 

| 

8 

P*5 

F- 

1 

u 

PS 

0 

e> 

O 

jf 

51 

3 

tA 

4 

p 

S 

I 

| 

p 

M 

|S 

^■x 

m- -*» 

=5 

sc" 

2 

c 

TH 

d 

§ 

fi 

-. 

e 

si 

g 

tA 

x 

$ 

Id 

f4 

33 

2 3-5 

S*3 

M 

!> 



3 

£ 

a 

P 

£ 

■lc! 

* J= 0 

-£3 0 & 

W 

* 

g 

_r 

O 

N 

£ 

□2 

i 

T. 

S 

3 

sA 

| 

s 

P 

rd 

id 

p 

■a X 
d w 

P ^ 

Tj 

-SS 3 

a s s 

I- & 

?l 

^8' 

Si 

a 

± ;1 

G = 

p 

dc" di 

1 1 
? s 

p < 

_iffi 

+- rs 

5 3 

■3 S' 

■K ■“* 

"!=! a 
h: ■“ 

£ * 

'll 

0 ■ 

^X 

3 n 

|| 
X 3 
- 1-5 •+* 

is 

Et 

* A 
= X 

&! 

1: 
X ^ 

r* 

g 

'c 

u 

* 

1 

S 

3 

£ 

y 

m 

,£j 

'd 

Si 

X 

r- 1 

Jh 

■u 

d 

S s! 
a-e 

It 

a 


■Sofc 


Thv Eodiaattl 
SiyiLf. 


TaUr4un 

Oemim. 

OawvTr 

Leo. 

Virf/O. 

L-ibrv* 

Stt/rp-iu. 

i ArcA 

ttngittt. 

Cajft't- 

ctirfiwf- 

Am- 

ph [ira. 

PinCt'it. 

WiiHther turn- 
ing. liSfltl OF 
double-bodied. 

M l>vj ijjsj. 

Hosting- 

Moving: 

and 

resting 

together.. 

Mu vi ng. 

Rusting. 

Moving 
and ' 
resting 
Eogethoi-.. 

Mi 'vi [n;. 

Uc^tkig. 

Moving 

and 

resting 

U pettier. 

iMoying. 

Resting, 

Moving 
and ~ 
resting 
together. 

Whether at. 
night, or during 
day, according 

Lu IJ'taJ U p&oplt). 

At 

night. 

At 

night-. 

At 

night. 

At 

night. 

Dnririu: 
day. ‘ 

During 

rimy. 

During 

day. 

During 

day. 

At 

night. 

At 

night. 

During 

day. 

During 

day. 

Whdt parts of 
the Viody they 
mdi cate* 

Head . 

Fatso. 

Shoul- 
d era arid 
hands. 

Breast. 

BelEy, 

tlip r 

Under 

the 

navel. 

Male 

and 

female 

gouitn's. 

The 

loim?. 

The 

hnees. 

The 
on h r es. 

The two 
feet.. 

HeaBnuH. 

V:v-iQitu. 

itririum. 

Griahnnu 

VnrRha, 

V araliii. 

Hitrati, 

S:irnd. 

He- 
rn ants. 

Uq- 

toftnta. 

&£irn. 

feiaiOL, 

Vnfeantn. 

Their, figure*. 

A ram. 

An ft*,. 

A until 
with Jlr 
lyre, and 
ft dull in 
his hand 

L'rub. 

Lion. 

A girl 
with an 
oar of 
corn in 
Ii.-jt brnrul 

A penle. 

A Boor- 
pioiL 

A horse, 
the 

head and 

ii | iper 

half -of 
which 
have 
human 
shape. 

A being 
with the 
face uf 
a goat. 
There is 
much 
water in 
its rlgun'. 

A hind 
or boat 
or barge. 

. Two 

tlsliet?. 


■1 LEER UNI'S INDIA. 


W Lilli. kdldv rjf 
beings they are. 

Q oadrn* 
ped. 

Quad ro- 
ped. 

Human 

biped. 

Amphi- 

bious, 

Quadra- 

pufL 

Biped, 

Biped. 

Amplsi- 

The 

eppor 
llfllf a 
bipod, 
the 
lower 
half rl 

1 1 LUfcd'FLI - 

ped. 

The rbi'ftt 
half n 
biped i 
the 
latter 
half 
ivntery. 

The Lli'fc't 
half a 
biped , 
the 
• ither 
half 
Watery, 
or the 
whole m 
luiDiau 
Sing. 

Watery. 

The timed of 

At 

At 

During: 

I hiring 1 

At 

During 

During 

D i.nriiiLT 

The 

During 

The 

During 

thei f stronger 
influence au- 
CijsrrJiiLg- to the 
difftirou! kiilda. 

night. 

nigh; 

tho 

day. 

the 

^rutidHL 

night. 

the dny T 

the day, 

the 

Biiihdhi, 

human 
part dur- 
ing; the 
day, the 
other fit 
night, 

the 

snmdhi. 

human 
part id 
day time, 
the 

oilier mz 
night. 

the 

^ntfadhi. 


CHAPTER LX XX. 319 


220 


ALBERUNVS INDIA, 


Explunatinn 
of aome 
WcVm i i'jlilI 
tWiafl of 


The ti-C'iiscy, 


! 'Lijfii jjed. 


The height or altiindo of a planet is called, in the 
Indian language, ucaiUim, its particular degree para- 
moccadha. The depth nr dejedio of a planet, is called 
niemtha, its particular degree parawxmicastlm. MvJ.a- 
triho.ti,a is a powerful influence, attributed to a planet, 
when it is in the gaudium in one of its two houses 
(cf, ii. 225). 

They do not refer the mpedm trig-mi to the elements 
and the elementary natures, as it is our cob tom. to do, 
but refer them to the points of the compass in general, 
as has been specified in the table. 

They call the tuning zodiacal sign (TpowLKov) cararASi t 
is. moving, the fixed one {Wepov) dhvmrMi, is, the 
reding one, and the dmthhdmlird one (Sitrwpi) drisva- 
bhdva s is. both together. 

As we have given a table of the zodiacal signs, we 
next give a table of the houses (damm)^ showing the 
qualities of each of them. The one half of them above 
the earth they call c$0m, is, parasol, and the half 
under the earth they call nan, is. ship. Further, they 
call the half ascending to the midst of heaven and the 
other half descending to the eardo of the earth, dhunu, 
is. the bow. The cardmes they call Icendra (k€vt pov), 
the next, following houses pamphara (Uavaffyogd), and 
the inclining houses dpoklima (aTronXipa ) : — 


I YU I VI, I V* IV, I ITT. I n. I Aweiidor^ Tkcs 'UousCa, 


CHAPTER LX XX. 


22 l 


What Lhuy 
indicate. 


* hi the 

the H<umtinw 
in‘ina taken as 
basis. 


Mi 

S&3 

,g *■*= 

’-•f ^ 

Z *-■ V 
jg ™ 

JZ £> E 


Bend Hinl Basts far the The, 


| 8 
g S 


Si ?; 

Sfi - ~ 
■3* 

73 S 


Mi 

sil 

T LJ j| 

T £ ^ 
S'S^ 

!■§ § 
> £ - 

*r 


HOUl 


I'M ll , lllftt>[ ( " | 3| 1 


fc’aoe and Two stand in 
property. jLspsct %% i tli 

C> L -_= ilWFiiilWS- 


TllC two jH J'l L !- ' 
rind brother*. 


Heart, parents. 
Mends, house, 
and joy. 

Belty, child, 
tuiri clever- 

ELOSS. 


Tli o ateetodetts 
looks toward* 
it, but it i.l oil-:-- 
] Lut look tij" 
wfti’ds tb© 
asuen dais* 


human 

signs. 


Mer- 
t! I L r V 
nod 
-To pa- 
ler, 


-y> ^ ij 
,, s :.n 

Is! 

-B «3 

.S" S 

!S g“ 

pi ^ 3 

5H 

| e £ 


Two stand in 
aspect with 
the 


Two stajid in 
aspect with 
T he oj-c-Fi^nfonif, 


The two sides, 
the enemy 

and litlinyr 
anitfiaH 


It looks to- 
wards the 
axcsndwj, hut 
the LDtw: /ideas 
does not look 
towards it. 


Under the Two stand in 
navel and a^efc with 
women- thu usMtidcnj?. 


Return ami The ascendent 

d eat I looks tow ard is 

it r but it. do er 
not look to- 
wards the 
oratt-ndt'w. 


The two loins, 
yj journey and 


debt. 


Two stand in 
aspect with 
the tutcfimh fiS. 


The 

watery 

Signs. 


Venus 

and 

Moon, 


tm- 

turn, 


l of 

them. 


tl.’ 


of 


How rlifijr arc divided 

FitmsoL Bhip. according to the horizon- 


A LB BRUNTS INDIA. 


232 


uf 

6 

o 

4J 

Whftfc they 
i ndic&te. 

On vhe (lifpfitfx, 
the flJKjmriejT* 
i :• biri^ takira a- 
biLKiEn 

* 

Ms 

H =t V 
" £ ** 
gar 

■K 'L- .E 

1*8 
£ & =. 

„ 2 a 

l|l 

$■ -L 

ii 

K = 
c; t: , 

ill 

s|a 

Tt -r. 

P* 

it 

E — , 

m = 

a a £ 
-■ £ 5 

Q lip 

•<- , r E 

- 5 « 
^ S 

c Q'ti 

S** 
s - £ 

= §" 

-h~ 3 

- ^ i 

,se-bS 
_ ? " 

IIS' 5 

JF 

i a 

Sjj 

--n j*; 

7® 

& 

Is” 

=1 

d -L- 

-Js 
~ tn = 
8:= - 
3 5? 

■;ll 

E -Zl 


Tile i v.-.j knees 
and action. 

Two stand in 
aspect with 
the 

The 

ijuadnt 

pods. 

ft III L**, 


£ 




Tbe two 
calves and 
i n win c. 

1 ioiikn to- 
wards tiie 
wcenden a . lmt 
the 

doe* not L>ok 
towards it, 

o 

0 

i 

i 

1 

i- 

_3 

1 

□ 

<y 

MIX 

The tWD feet 
and expenses. 

Two do nob 1 
stand in aspect 
with the 
titeentfenit* 

o 

s 

a 

The 

whole. 

" i~~ s 


■5} 


P:ig$ 307+ The hitherto mentioned details are in reality the 
cardinal points of Hindu astrology, viz., the planets, 
zodiacal signs, and houses. He who knows how to find, 
out what each of them means or portends deserves the 
title of a clever adept and of a master in this art. 
outlie Next follows the division of the zodiacal signs in 

SSi " C u minor portions, first that in ntmhahrm, wliicli are called 
hord t is. hour, because half a sign rises in about an 
ho urs ti m e , The ii rs t h al f of e ach maie si g 11 is n n 1 u c ky 
as standing under the influences of the sun, because he 
produces male beings, whilst the second half is lucky as 
standing under the influence of the moon, because she 
produces female beings. On the contrary, in the fcmaU 
signs the first- half is lucky, and the second unlucky, 
in dsekr Further, there are the triangles, called \frekhina. 
There ie no use in enlarging on them, as they are 
simply identical with tbe so-called dmydvfU of our 
system, 

3- in Further, tbe nuhbahnii ( Persia n. L " the n ine -parts V 

bahrtiA. 7 z " 


CHA PTE R L XXX * 22 3 

called na ahhdaktt . As onr books of introduction to the 
art of astrology mention two kinds of them, we shall 
here explain the Hindu theory regarding them, for the 
information of Indophiles, You reduce the distance 
between O ' of the sign and that minute, the nuhhakr of 
which yon want to find, to minutes, and divide the 
number by 200- The quotient represents complete 
m/Mahras or ninth-parts, beginning with the turning 
sign, which is in the triangle of the sign in question j 
you count the number off on the- consecutive signs, so 
that one sign corresponds to one nuhhfthv. That sign 
which corresponds to the last oi : the ninth -parts which 
you have is the dominant of the nvMahr we want to find. 

The first 7 iuifhi.hr of each iui'ning sign, the fifth of 
each fixed sign* and the ninth of each doribU-hodi^d 
sign is called mtrgotiama t i.e. the greatest portion. 

Further, the twelfth-parts, called the twelro riders. 
For a certain place within a sign they are found in Hie 
following manner : — Reduce the distance between o of 
the sign and the place in question to minutes, and 
divide the number by 150. The quotient represents 
complete twelfth -pxrt^ which you count off 011 the 
following signs, beginning with the sign in question, so 
that one twelfth-part corresponds to one sign. The 
dominant of the sign, to which the last, twelfth -part 
corresponds, is at the same time the dominant of the 
twelfth-part of the place in question. 

Further, the degrees called iriiiMmsala. i,e. the 
thirty degrees, which correspond to our limit.-; (or 
Their order is this: The first five degrees of each male 
sign belong to Mars, the next following five to Saturn, 
the next eight to Jupiter, the next seven to Mercury, 
and the last five to Venus* Just the reverse order 
takes place in th $ female signs, viz. the first five r -hgrwx 
belong to Venus, the next seven to Mercury, the next 
eight to Jupiter, the next five to Saturn, and the last 
five to Mercury. 


4. Tii 

tweifU.- 

pan'ta. 


5- ['Hi JQ 
dcgL'eeH. or 
thrift . 


On the 
differs fi L 
kinds uE tJjrj 


FHcndfiLip 
:md enmity 

nf certain 
planets hi 
relnthm r.i i- 
each other. 


Page jo?. 


2 24 A L BBR U NFS l N DIA „ 

These are the elements on which every astrological 
calculation is based. 

The nature of the aspect of every sign depends upon 
the nature of the ascendent which at a given moment 
rises above the horizon. Regarding the aspects they 
have the following rule 

A sign does not look at t Le. does not stand in aspedu 
with the two signs immediately before and after it. 
On the contrary, each pair of signs, the beginnings of 
which are distant from each other by one-fourth, or one- 
third or one -half of the circle, stand in aspect with each 
other* If the distance between two signs is one -sixth 
of the circle, the signs forming tins aspect are counted 
in their original order ■ but if the distance is five- 
twelfths of the circle, the signs forming the wiped are 
counted ill the inverse order. 

There are various degrees of aspect#, vix, — - 

The aspect between one sign and the fourth or 
eleventh following one is a fmtrth-}Xivi of an aspect ; 

The aspect between one sign and the fifth or ninth 
following one is half an aspect ; 

The aspect, between a sign and the sixth or tenth 
following one is ihree-qvAWters of an aspect ; 

The aspect between a sign and the seventh following 
one is a wkolz aspect. 

The Hindus do not speak of an atipetit between two 
planets which stand in one and the same sign. 

With reference to the change between the friendship 
and enmity of single planets with regard to each other, 
the Hindus have the following rule : — 

I f a planet comes to stau d in signs which, in relation to 
its risings are the tenth, eleventh, twelfth, first, second, 
third, and fourth signs, its nature undergoes a change 
for the better. If it is most inimical, it becomes mo- 
derated ; if it is moderated, it becomes friendly : if it is 
friendly, it becomes most friendly. If the planet comes 
to stand in all the other signs, its nature undergoes a 


CHAPTER LX XX, 


change for t.li e worse. If originally it is friendly, it 
becomes moderate ; if it is moderate, it becomes ini- 
mical ; if it. is inimical, it becomes even worse. Under 
sueli circumstances, the nature of a planet is an acci- 
dental one for the time being, associating itself with its 
original nature. 

After having explained these things, we now proceed twiw 
to mention the four forces which are peculiar to each uwsii planet 
planet : — 

I. The habitual force, called dluhmhala. which the 

K tarn, ph, 

planet exercises* when it stands in its altitutfo, its Juytm t ^ s 
or the house of its friend, or in the ■tvuhhakr of its house, 
or its aUUudOt or its U, its gaudiuw in the 

line of the lucky planets. This force is peculiar to sun 
and moon when they are in the lucky signs, as it is 
peculiar to the other planets when they are in the un^ 
lucky signs. Especially this force is peculiar to the 
moon in the first third of her lunation, when it helps 
every planet which stands in aqtfd with her to acquire 
the same force. Lastly, it is peculiar to the ct&cmriens 
if it is a sign representing a biped. 

IT. The force called dri.shtihda, ie. the lateral one, L fl ^. n [E . 
also called dri(/bala t which the planet exercises when 
standing in the cardo in which it is strong, and, accord- 
ing to some people, also when standing in the two houses 
immediately before and after the earth. It is peculiar 
to the mcendem in the day, if it is a sign representing a 
biped, and in the night, if tt. is a four-footed sign, and in 
both the smkdhis (periods of twilight at the beginning 
and end) of the other signs. This in particular refers 
to the astrology of nativities. In the other parts of 
astrology this force is peculiar, as they maintain, to the 
tenth sign if it represents a quadruped, to the seventh 
sign if it is Scorpio and Cancer, and to the fourth sign 
if it is Amphora and Cancer. 

II L Thx em/puermf.j Jarce t called ceshfdbaia^ which 1*5-11, u, & 
a planet exercises, when it is in retrograde motion, 

VOL. 11. P 


27 b 


A LB BR UNTS INDIA . 


Laghulut'L- 
kirn, Jc. a, 


309, 


when it ©merges from concealment, marching as a 
visible star till the end of four signs, and when in the 
north it meets one of the planets except Venus. For 
to Venus the south is t lie same as the north is to the 

other planets. If the two (- — ? illegible) stand in 

it (the south), it is peculiar to them that they stand in 
the ascending half (of the sun’s annual rotation), pro- 
ceeding towards the summer solstice, and that the moon 
in particular stands near the other planets— -except the 
sun — which afford her something of this force. 

The force- is, further, peculiar to the a scmdais, if its 
dominant is in it. if the two stand in aspect with Jupiter 
and Mercury, if the ^eendt'-ns is free from an aspect of 
the unlucky planets, and none of them — except the 
dominant— is in the ascendm-% For if an unlucky 
planet is in it, this weakens the aspect of Jupiter and 
Mercury, so that their dwelling in this force loses its 
effect, 

IV. The fourth force is called Miabfda, i.e. the tem- 
poral one, which the daily planets exercise in the day, 
the nightly planets during the night. It is peculiar 
to Mere my in the smhdhi of its rotation, whilst others 
maintain that Merc my always has this force, because 
he stands in the same relation to both day and night* 
Further, this force is peculiar to the lucky planets in 
the white half of the month, and to the unlucky stars 
in the black half. It is always peculiar to the ascendens. 
Other astrologers also mention years, months, days, 
and hours among the conditions, under which the one 
or other of the four forces is peculiar to a planet. 

These, now, are the forces which are calculated for 
the planets and for the asomdem. 

If several planets own, each of them, several forces, 
that one is preponderant which has the most of them. 
If two planets have the sumo number of halm or forces, 
that one has the preponderance the magnitude of which 
is the larger. This kind of magnitude is in the table of 


CHAPTER LX XX. 


227 


ii, 215, call eil nai$tmjilmhfda r This is the order of the 7 , 

planets in magnitude or force. 

The middle years which are computed for the planets mic^-curs ^ 
are of three different species, two of which are com- 
puted according to the distance from the altitude. The 
measures of the first and second species we exhibit in (specie* <*t 

, T , tneso 

the table (il 2 1 5), 

The shtfdaya and ttid&irmht- are reckoned as the 
degree of tiilitndo. The first species is computed when 
the above-mentioned forces of the sun are prepon- 
derating over the Forces of the moon and the nseendens 
separately. 

The second species is computed if the forces of the 
moon are preponderating over those of the sun and 
those of the metndens. 

The third species is called ftmgm/a, and is computed 
if the forces of the ttscemki are preponderating over 
those of sun and moon. 

The computation, of the years of the first species for The 
each planet, if it djx-s not stand in the degree of its 
nit Undo , is the following : — 

You take the distance of the star from the degree of r.,^, v j , 
its idtitudo If this distance is mure than six signs, ov 
the difference between this distance and twelve signs, in 
case it is less th an si x si gns. Th i s n u m b er i 5 m \ \ 1 ti pi led 
by the number of the years, indicated by the table un 
page Sr 2, Thus the signs sum up to months, the de- 
grees to days, the minutes to day- minutes, and these 
values are reduced, each sixty minutes to one day, each 
thirty days to one month, and each twelve months to 
one year* 


The computation of these years for the ascend ens is 
this : — 

Take the distance of the degree of the star from o D of 3 . 

Aries, one year for each sign, one month for each 2 1 
degrees, cu 1 e day for e ach i 1 ve m ii 1 u te s, on e d ay - m i n ut e 
for each five seconds, 


228 


A LBBRUNFS INDIA. 


The aecoud 


The tliird 
jtpwles. 


I.^hnjA- 

tafciuiij 

eh. Ti. j. 


Tb* rtjrn'5 
ftf life Vie*, 
atowert 
thfr tat? n- 


The computation of the years of the second species 
for the planets is the following : — 

Take the distance of the star from the degree of its 
aUihtdo according to the just-men tinned rule (ii. 227). 
This number is multiplied by the corresponding num- 
ber of years which is indicated by the table, and the 
remainder of the computation proceeds in the same 
way as in the case of the first species. 

The computation of this species of years for the 
<Z&c#rtdens is this : — 

Take the distance of its degree from o" of Aries, a 
year for each nv.hhahr ; months and days, dec,, in the 
same way as in the preceding computation. 'The 
number you get is divided by 12, and the remainder 
being less than 12, represents the 11 umber of years of 
the mcendenz* 

The computation of the years of the third species is 
the same for the planets as for the tmmdens, and is 
similar to the computation of the years of the ascendent 
of the second species. It is this : * 

Take the distance of the star from o’ of Aries, one 
year for each mrftbtt.hr, multiplying the whole distance 
by 10S. Then the signs sum up to month?, the degree? 
to days, the minutes to day- minutes, the smaller rne^ 
sure being reduced to the larger one. The years are 
divided by T 2, and the remainder which you get by 
this division is the number of years which you want 
to find. 

All the years of tiris kind are called by the common 
name dyurddya. Before they undergo the equation 
they are called ■madhyffvulytt- J and after they have 
passed it they are called xphut&iju f i r e, the corrected 
ones. 

The years of the asmtdens in all three species are 
corrected ones, which do not require an equation by 
means of two kinds of subtraction, one according 
to the position of the ascm&'ens in the aether, and a 


CHAPTER LX XX. 229 

second according to its position in relation to the 
horizon. 

To the third kind of years is peculiar an equation by 
means of an addition, which always proceeds in the 
same manner. It is this : — 

If a planet stands in its largest portion or in its 
house, the drckkibna of its house or the dvelchXm of its 
altkufh, in the nithbahr of its house or the nuhhahr of 
its ifllitudij, or, at the same time, in most of these posi- 
tions together, its years will be t he double of the middle 
number of years, lint if the planet is in retrograde 
motion or in its attitudo, or in both together, its years 
are the threefold of the middle number of years. 

Regarding the equation by means of the subtraction 
{ride ii. 22$) according to the first method, we observe 
that the years of the planet, which is in its dejrctio^ are 
reduced to two-thirds of them if they are of the first or 
second species, and to one-lialf if they belong to the 
third species, The standing of a planet in the house 
of its opponent does not impair the number of its years. 

The years of a planet which is concealed by the rays 
of Lhe sun, and thus prevented from exercising an in- 
lluence, are reduced to one-half in the case of all three 
species of years. Only Venus and Saturn are excepted , 
for the fact of their being concealed by the rays of the 
sun does not in any way decrease the numbers of their 
years. 

As regards the equation by means of subtraction 
according to the second method, we have already stated 
in the table (ii 221. 222) how much is subtracted from 
the unlucky and lucky stars, when they stand in the 
houses above the earth* If two or more planets come 
together in one house, yon examine which of them is 
the larger and stronger one. The subtraction is added 
to the years of the stronger planet and the remainder is 
left as it is. 

If to the years of a single planet, years of the third 


VjiTioilB. 
cowputct- 
Utjiifl for th 
linrftttfUL of 


Fa.^0 jirj, 


ALBERUNP5 INDIA, 


Tlio 

alepaentfl of 

E S j ■:-: ri.ijjj - 

piltatf 1>I L of 

the h] Lai-.Li ii.ii i 

of life. 


species, two additions from different sides are to bo 
made, only one addition, vh>, the longer one, is taken 
into account. The same is the case when two subtrac- 
tions are to be made. However, if an addition as well 
as a subtraction is to be made, yon do the one first and 
then the other, because in this case the sequence is 
different. 

By these methods the years become adj tided, and the 
sum of them is the duration of the life of that man who 
is born at the moment in question. 

It now remains for us to explain the method of the 
Hindus regarding the periods (sic). Life is divided 
in the above-mentioned three species of years, and 
immediately after the birth, into years of sun and 
moon. That one is preponderating which has the most 
forces and kk (ride ii. 225) ; if they equal each other, 
that one is preponderating which lias the greatest 
jwrtio (sic) in its place, then the next one, &c. The 
companion of these years is either the timmUns or that 
planet which stands in the mrdines with many forces 
and pcyHioim. The several planets come together in the 
Lvrdhu's, their influence and sequence arc determined by 
their forces and shares. After them follow those planets 
which stand near the carding then those which stand 
in the indinsd signs, their order being determined in the 
same way as in the preceding case* Tims becomes 
known in what part of the whole human life the years 
of every single planet fall. 

However, the single parts of life are not computed 
exclusively in the years of the one planet, but accord- 
ing to the influences which companion -stars exercise 
upon it, i.<?* the planets which stand in aspect with it. 
For they make it partake in their rule and make it 
share in their division of the years- A planet which 
stands in the same sign with the planet ruling over the 
part of life in question, shares with it one-half, That 
which stands in the fifth and ninth signs, shares with 


CHAPTER LX XX. 


it one-third* That which stands in the fourth and 
eighth signs, shares with it mi e-fourth. That which 
stands in the seventh sign, shares with it one-seventh. 
If, therefore, several planets come together in one 
position, all of them have in common that share which 
ls necessitated by the position in question. 

The method, for the computation of the years of such 
a companionship (if the ruling planet stands in aspect 
with other planets) is the following : — 

Take for the master of the years (Le. that planet 
which rules over a certain part of the life of a man) one 
as numerator and one as denominator, i\e, one whole, 
because it rules over the whole* Further, take for each 
companion (i.r. each planet which stands in aspect with 
the former) only the numerator of its denominator (not 
the entire fraction). You multiply each denominator by 
all the numerators and their sum, in which operation the 
original planet and its fraction are disregarded. There- 
by all the fractions are reduced to one and the same 
denominator. The equal denominator is disregarded. 
Kadi mime rater is i md ti pi i ed by the sum of th e yea . r 
and the product divided by the sum of the numerators* 
The quotient represents the ye are kdiamWea (LoJ.a- 
bh&ffrt f) of a planet* 

As regards the order of the planets, after the question 
as to the preponderance of their influence has. been 
decided (? tnxt in disorder), in so far as each of them 
exercises its individual influence. In the same wav as 
has already been explained (vide ii. 230), the preponde- 
rating planets are those standing m the mrrfiiie.% first 
the strongest, then the less strung, &c,, then those 
standing near the eardiv.es t and lastly those standing in 
the mdimd signs. 

From the description given in the preceding pages, 
the reader learns how the Hindus compute the dura- 
tion of human life. He learns from the positions of 
the planets, which they occupy on the origin (i.e. at 


How one- 
pi ft M lit 3 ft 
i’lflfyfftt.ed hy 
111 a lintUTO 
of amithtiL* 
cue. 


Fla^u 311. 


SpocLiil 
itiathada of 
inquiry of 
tha Hindu 
aatroiagarE, 


232 


A LB BRUNTS INDIA. 


tbe moment of birth) and at every given moment of 
life in what way the years of the different planets are 
distributed over it. To these things Hindu astrologers 
join certain methods of the astrology of nativities, 
which other nations do not take into account. They 
try, £ h ff tt to find out if, at the birth of a human being, its 
father was present, and conclude that he was absent, if 
the moon does not stand in aspect with the ascendent, 
dLiillV or if the sign in which the moon stands is enclosed 
between the signs of Yenus and Mercury, or if Saturn 
is in the frscmrkm, or if Mars stands in the seventh sign. 

Chap. iii. 4 (V). — Further, they try to find out if the 
child will attain lull age by examining sun and moon. 
If sun and moon stand in the same sign, and with them 
an unlucky planet, or if the moon and Jupiter just quit 
the aspect with the ammidenx, or if Jupiter just quits 
the aspect with the united sun and moon, the child 
will not. live to full age. 

Further, they examine the station in which the sun 
stands, in a certain connection with the circumstances 
of a lamp. If the sign is sJ turning one, the light of the 
lamp, when it is transferred from one place to the other, 
moves. If the sign is a fixed one, the light of the lamp 
is motionless ; and it" the sign is a doubU-hfxldd- one, it 
moves one time and is motionless another. 

Further, they examine in what relation the degrees 
of the ascendms stand to 30. Corresponding to it is 
the amount of the wick of the lamp which is consumed 
by burning. If the moon is full moon, the lamp is full 
of oil ; at of her times the decrease or increase of the oil 
corresponds to tbe wane and increase of the moonlight. 

Chap. iv. 3. — From the strongest planet in the car- 
dims they draw a conclusion relating to the door of the 
house,, for its direction is identical with the direction of 
this planet or with the direction of the sign of the asem- 
dm*, in case there is no planet in the cardincs* 

Chap. iv. 6 . — Further, they consider which is the 


CHAPTER EX XX. 


233 


li glit-giving body, the sun or moon. If it is the sun, 
the house will be destroyed. The moon is beneficent. 
Mars burning, Mercury bow-shaped, Jupiter constant, 
and Saturn old. 

Chap, iv. 7 — If Jupiter stands in its altUudo in the 
tenth sign, the house will consist of two wings or three - 
If its indicium is strong in Axcitenens, the house will 
have three wings ; if it is in tile other double- bodied 
signs, the house will have two wings. 

Chap. iv. 8.— 111 order to find prognostics for the 
throne and its feet they examine the third sign, its 
squares and its length from the twelfth till the third 
signs, If there are unlucky planets in it, either the 
foot or the side will perish in the way that the unlucky 
planet prognosticates. IT it is Mars, it will 3?e turned ; 
if it is the sun, it will be broken ; and if it is Wat urn, it 
will be destroyed by old age. 

Chap, iv. 10, — The number of women who will be 
present in a house corresponds to the number of stars 
which are in the signs of the mcendem and of the moon. 
Their qualities correspond to the images of these con- 
stellation^ 

Those stars of these constellations which stand 
above the earth refer to those women who go away 
from the house, aud those which stand under the earth 
prognosticate the women who will come to the house 
and enter it, 

further, they inquire into the coming of the spirit, 
of life it 1 man from the dominant of the drckkdm of 
the stronger planet of either sun or moon. If J u piter is 
th e d re k k u n a, i t co m es f ron j I )ev al ok a ; if it i s Ye uu s or 
the moon, the spirit comes from Pifriloka ; if it is Mars 
or the sum the spirit comes from Vri&ikaloka ; and if it 
is Saturn or Mercury. the spirit comes from Ubriguloka. 

Likewise they inquire into the departing of the soul 
after the death of the body, when it departs to that 
planet which is stronger than the dominant of the 


lVi£c 41 z. 


Oll oomftte. 


Q^tatiotis 
Uvlli tliu 
Hyfimh/.tti of 
V;ll"ftVnuilL- 
hifi. 


234 ALBERUNVS INDIA. 

drekkuna of the .sixth or eighth houses, according to a 
similar rule to that which has just been laid down. 
However, if Jupiter stands in its alt it 7 f do, in the sixth 
house, or in the eighth, or in one of the cartlinGs^ or if 
the mwndcm is Pisces, and Jupiter is the strongest of 
the planets, and if the constellation of the moment of 
death is the same as that of the moment of birth, in 
that case the spirit (or soul) is liberated and 110 longer 
wanders about. 

I mention these things in order to show the reader 
the difference between the astrological methods of our 
people and those of the Hindus. Their theories and 
methods regarding aerial and cosmic phenomena are 
very lengthy and very subtle at the same time. As 
we have limited ourselves to mentioning, in their 
astrology of nativities, only the theory of the determina- 
tion of the length of life, wo shall in this department 
of science limit ourselves to the species of the comets, 
according to the statements of those among them, who 
are supposed to know th© subject thoroughly. The 
analogy of the comets shall afterwards be extended to 
other more remote subjects. 

The head of the Dragon is called wSJw, the tail kdn. 
The Hindus seldom speak of the tail, they only use the 
head, j.n general, all comets which appear on heaven 
are also called fefoi* 

Tarabamihira says (chap. iii. 7-12) 

“The Head has thirty- three sons who are called 
tdmamkUafof* They are the different kinds of the 
comets, there being no difference whether the head 
extends away from them or not. Their prognostics 
correspond to their shapes, colours, sizes, and positions. 
Y. 8. — The worst are those which have the shape of a 
crow or the shape of a beheaded man, those which 
have the shape of a sword, dagger, bow and arrow, 
V* 9, ro. — They are always in the neighbourhood of 
sun and moo in exciting the waters so that they become 


CHAPTER LX XX. 


thick, and exciting the air that it becomes glowing red. 
They bring the air into such an uproar that the tornadoes 
tear out the largest trees, that hying pebbles beat against 
the calves and knees of the people. They change the 
nature of the time, so that the seasons seem to have 
changed their places. When unlucky and calamitous 
events become numerous, such, as earthquakes, land- 
slips, burning beat, red glow of heaven, uninterrupted 
howling of the wild beasts and screaming of the birds, 
then know that all this comes from the children of the 
Head. Y. ii. — And if these occurrences take place 
together with an eclipse or the effulgence of a comet, 
then recognise in this what thou hast predicted, and 
d ,o 1 1 o t try to gain prog ] i n s t i cs fro m other be nigs bn t the 
Son s of t \ le 1 J e ad . V . 1 2 . — J. u th e p I ac e of the ca [ amity, 
point towards their (the comets) region, to all eight 
sides with relation to the body of the sun." 

Vara! i am dura Fays in the Stwtikiid (chap. xf r 7): — 
I have spoken of the comets not before having 
exhausted what is in the bocks of Garga, Parfi&ra, 
A sit a and Devala, and in the other books, however 
numerous they may be- 

‘‘It is impossible to comprehend their computation, 
if the reader does not previously acquire the knowledge 
of their appearing and disappearing, because they are 
not of one kind, but of many kinds. 

“ Some are high and distant from the earth, appearing 
between the stars of the lunar stations. They are called 
divyo. 

r< Others have a middle distance from the earth, 
appearing between heaven and earth. They are called 
m\L'( rik£iyf( , 

Ef Others are near to the earth, falling down upon the 
earth j on the mountains, houses and trees, 

“ Sometimes you see a light falling down to the 
earth, which people think to be a fire. If it is not 
fire, it is kd vrilpa. i.e. having the shape of a comet. 

f< Those animals which, when flying in the air, look 


2$6 


ALBERUNTS INDIA. 


like sparks or like fires which remain in the houses of 
the -pi&k.as, the devils, and of the demons, efflorescent 
substances and others do not belong to the genus of 
the comets, 

fi Therefore, ere you can tell the prognostics of the 
connate, you must know their nature, for the prognostics 
p.itfc. 313* are in agreement with it* That category of lights which 
is in the air, falling on the banners, weapons, houses, 
trees, 021 horses and elephants, and that category coming 
from a Lord which is observed among the stars of the 
lunar stations— if a phenomenon does not belong to 
either of these two categories nor to the above-men- 
tioned phantoms, it is a telluric Izr.fn, 

Y. 5. — i: Scholars differ among each oilier regarding 
the number of the comets. According to some there 
are lqi, according to others 1000. According to 
Narad a, the sage, they are only one, which appears in 
a multitude of different forms, always divesting itself of 
one form and arraying itself in another. 

V, 7, — a Their influence lasts for as many months as 
their appearance lasts days. If the appearance of a 
comet lasts longer than one and a half month, subtract 
from it forty-five days. The remainder represents the 
months of its influence. If the appearance lasts longer 
than two months, in that case state the years of its 
influence to bo equal to the number of the months of 
its appearance. The number of comets does not exceed 
the number 1000." 

We give the contents of the following table hi order 
to facilitate the study of the subject, although we have 
not been able to fill out all the single fields of Hie 
diagram, because the manuscript tradition of the single 
paragraphs of the book either in the original or in the 
copy which we have at our disposal is corrupt. The 
author intends by his explanations to confirm the theory 
of the ancient scholars regarding the two numbers of 
comets which he mentions on their authority, and be 
endeavours to complete the number 1000. 


■jij 


T£ifiL:r ibamCm. 

Tli-tLr descent. 

H fJW ITHH-liy 
atiO‘3 ^ach 
enniiit has. 

Sum 

total* 

Their 1 n«nl Llit'a-, 

I' J C-ILL ulutt 

dhaction 
they appear, 

l 1 tuner priiguostl CFk. 

*♦* 

The chi' dree 
of Kiraita. 

2 5 

25 

S i in i la r to pearls in rivulets of 
crystal or gold-coloured. 

Only in 
east and 
west. 

ft bodes the fighting of the 
kings wit h each other. 


The children 
■ ►T t.he Fjr<! ij ) 

2$ 

SO 

Green, or of the colour of tire or 
of lac, or of blood, or of the 
blossom of the tree. 

S.E. 

It Ljodcs pest LI choc. 

- 

The children 
of Death, 

2 5 

75 

With crooked tails, their colour 
inclining to black and dark. 

IS, 

Ft: bodes hunger and pesti- 
lence. 


The children 
i if tlie Earth. 

22 

97 

Hound, radiant, of the colour of 
water or sesame oil,, without 
tails. 

N.E. 

ft bodes fertility and wealth. 


The children 
of the it eon. 

5 

IOD 

Like roses, or white lol ns, or sB* 
ver, or polished iron or gold. 
It- shines like the moon. 

N* 

!t. bodes evil. In consequence 
of which the world will be 
turned topsy-turvy. 

Brahma- 

danda. 

Son o f Ih rih- 
man. 

I 

IQ 1 

Having three colours and three 
tails. 

In all 
directions. 

It bodes wickedness and de- 
struction. 


The children 
of Yarns ■ 

£4 

1 85 

White, large, hrilliant- 

"N, and 

N E. 

It bodes evil and fear* 

Kanaka, 

The children 
of Saturn 



Jladiant, as if they were horns. 

In all 

directions. 

1 1 bodes misfortune and 
death* 

Vjkaca. 

The children 
of Jupiter. 



Brilliant, white, without any 
tails. 

S„ 

1(. bodes destruction and mis- 
fortune. 


CHAPTER L XXX. 


rinsi]' itauieE, 

TheJr iksfeeut. 

liuw man; 
stare sscIl 
comrjti lias. 

Sttiis 
' total 

Thafr q mslit ifts. 

Inuin •Vfimt 
direction 
they uppemr. 

Their pmguoaticfi. 

TqSjJiain, 

Le. the thief. 

The child re u 
of Mercury,, 

5^ 


Wlilte, thin, long. The eye is 
tteabd by them. 

In all 
directions. 

Jt bodes misfortune.’ 

Kiuifikinna* 

The children 
of Mars. 

60 


It has three tails, and the colour 
of the flame. 

N, 

It bodes the extremity of evil. 

Bmatia- 

fetlaiktL 

The children 
of the Head. 

36 

... 

Of different shapes 

About the 
sum and 

It bodes fire* 

Visvardpa. 

'J'liO children 
of tlio Fire. 

130 


Of a blasting light like rhe flame. 

moon. 

Jfc bodes evil. 

Arujia, 

The children 
of the Wind. 

77 


They have no body, I hut you 
co old see a star in them. Only 

1 la dr rays are united, so Lhil-t 

1 1 1 i :st aj >pear as riv u 3 ets. The i r 
colour is redclhh or greenish. 


It bodes general destruction. 

Gatmk/i. 

The chili Iron 
of Pmj&pati. 

204 

... 

Square coinets, eight in appear- 
ance, and 304 in number* 


It bodes much evil and de* 

atmetiou. 

Kauka. 

The children 
of the Wider, 

3* 


[1 s (?) are united, and it diin ■ 
ing like the moon, 

■:** 

[f bodes much fear and evil 
in Puiidra. 

KabaiiflBw. 

The children 
of the Time. 



hike the cul-oJT head of a man. 


E t lied e:s in u o h <1 vs r ru cl i on 



9 


One in appearance, nine in mjm 
her. White, large. 

lit all 
direct ions. 

It bodes pestilence. 


A LB Eft UNI’S INDIA t 


CHAPTER LX XX. 


-39 


The author (Var&hamlhira) had divided the comets 3 i.s- 
into three classes : the high ones near the stars ; the 
jtowing ones near the earth ; the middle ones in the air, 
and he mentions each one of the ki*/k and middle classes 
of them in our table separately. 

He further says (chap. xi. 42) : — 

“If the light of the middle class of comets shines on 
the instruments of the kings, the banners, parasols, 
fans, and 11 y -flaps, this bodes destruction to the rulers. 

If it shines on a house, or tree, or mountain, this bodes 
destruction to the empire. If it shines on the furni- 
ture of the house, its inhabitants will perish* If it 
shines on the sweepings of the house, its owner will 
perish.” 

Further Varahamihira says (chap* xi 6 ) : — 

" If a shooting-star falls down opposite to the tail of 
a comet, health and wellbeing cease, the rains lose their 
beneficial effects, and likewise the trees which are holy 
to Mali A dev a — there is 110 use in enumerating them, 
since their names and their essences arc unknown 
among us Muslims — and the conditions in the realm of 

o 

Cola, Sit-a, the Huns and Chinese are troubled.” 

Further he says (chap, xi. 62} : — 

“ Fxnmine the direction of the tail of the comet, it 
being indifferent whether the tail hangs down or stands 
cruet or is inclined, and examine the lunar station, the 
edge of which is touched by it. In that case predict 
destruction to the place and that its inhabitants will be 
attacked by armies which will devour them as the pea- 
cock devours the snakes. 

14 From these comets you must except those which 
bode something good. 

“As regards the other comets, you must investigate 
in what lunar stations they appear, or in what station 
their tails lie or to what station their tails reach. In 
that case you must predict destruction to the princes 
of those countries which are indicated by the lunar 


240 


ALBERUNPS INDIA . 


stations in question, and other events which are in- 
dicated by those station a/ f 

The Jews hold the same opinion regarding the 
comets as we bold regarding the stone of the Ka ba 
(vis. that they all are stones which have fallen down 
from heaven). According to the same book of Vari-b 
hamihira, comets are such beings as have been on 
account of their merits raised to heaven, whose period 
of dwelling in heaven has elapsed and who are then 
redescending to the earth. 

The following two tables embody the Hindu theories 
of the comets : — 


VOL. II. 


TAHOE OF COMETS UF THE lx J LH AT fc&T II K C fS 1 3 T IN THE .FT 11 Eli . 

1 

YasL 

West, 

It is Hashing mul thick, and extends 
itself from tbe north. 

li bodes death and excessive weak h 
and fertility. 

2 

A bilti 

West 

Less bright than the first. 

If bodes hunger and pestilence. 

3 

i?a.-.tra. 

West. 

Similar to the Jh-st, 

It boduti the lighting of the kings with 
each other. 

4 

Kflj:Hilafc;0lu- 

East. 

Us LluL extends dll nearly the midst u i. 
heaven. [i has n smoke- col our flu id 
appears mi t,he day of new- moon. 

It bodes the abundance of rahi T much 
hunger, illness and death. 

is 5 

Raudra. 

I ’lHUL L Lie OU-sl 
in Piin'ft- 

sh&flh^ Fhr- 
vabh&d i l jj p; i - 
da, and Ji e - 
Vftti 

With a h 1 1 : up «tlge t surrounrtod hy rays. 
Kromag-eolonred. It occupies one- 
third of heaven, 

It bodes the lighting of the kings with 

Cacti Other, 

6 

Cuhikuta, 

West. 

During the tirst time of its appearance 
i' has a tail as long as a finger towards 
tlie south. Then it turns towards 
[tie north, l ill it becomes :i* long c.s to 
tbe south, the Great liror ond the 
Vole, then the Falling Eagle. Ris- 
hifi higher and higher it pa &o$es round 
to the rimjth 1 1 1 iil disappears there. 

It ruins tin.: . V M.um ry from the tree 
Pray Elga till UjjayinL It ruins the 
Middle Country* whilst the other 
regions fare differently. In some 
places there \# pistil cnee, in others 
drought, in others, war. It is visible 
between iq -[2 months. 


"S 

LR 


chapter l: xx x. 


TABLE OF COMETS OP THE GREATEST HEIGHT 15 THE JSTH KM— (/unfirfii*/. 


7 

Svetaketu. 

South. 

It appears at the begin ding of nt^lrt 
and i $ vi si W e d 1 1 n 1 1 g *ev en d ay.s, T t * 
tail extends over oried bird of "heaven. 

It is green and passes from 1 lie right 
side to the left. 

When these t.wo comets shine and 
ligh ton . they bode h cal t h and wealth. 
IT the time of their appearance ex- 
ceeds seven days, two-third* of the 
affairs of men and of their Jive* sure 
re mod . Th e ■ s won a is d raw n . re vol w - 
tin ns prevail, and there will He mis- 
fortune during tun years. 

£ 

K;l 

West. 

]«. appears in the first half of night, its 
feme is like scattered peas, and re 
mains visible during seven days. 

9 

Raimittetii (?) 

The Pleiades. 

It 1ms the colour of smoke. 

it ruins nil human affaire and creates 
n □ m ctou 3 rev 0 1 ll n 0 n s. 

IQ 

D 1 ITUVJlk fitH (?) 

A ppoars be- 
tween heaven 
and earth 
wherever it 
likes. 

It; has a 1 % body, it has many sides (?) 
and colours, and is bright J lashing. 

It bodes health and peace* 


242 A LB HR U NFS INDIA . 


n uni I her. 


'r ABL E OP CO si ETS Or JI E DDi, E 1 1 E J G I f T IS TflE £ K V , 


nifijl’ UR I ILL'S. 


From urti&t 
direction they 
appear. 


DeacrJiJtiruu 


Their prognostics. 


i Kumuda. 


West. 


Niun^nakff of i lift lot u?s, ivljiij.li lx com- It bodes lusting fertility and weal Lb 
|wu-cd with it h if remains one night*. for ten v ears, 
and irs tail is directed towards the 
sojtlfh. 



j 


1 


Mmiiketu, 


Waat, 


It lasts only one quarter of a. night. 
Its tail U straight, white, similar to 
tbe milk which spurts out of the 
breast whan it is milked. 


Jalaketu, 

West. 

Flashing, Its tail has a curve from the 



west side. 

Bhavaketu. 

East, 

It has u fail like that of alien towards 



the south. 


It bodes a great number of wild animals 
and perpetnal fertility during four 
and el half months. 


It bodes fertility am'l wull- being qf the 
a u bjec t y d u ri n g nine mon t hs* 


It is visible only one night, Jt bode* 
perpetual Fertility and well- being dur- 
ing as many »#.nvrJAjs as its appear 
a nee last ntuhtlTOix. If its colour 
becomes less bright, U bodes pesti- 
lence and deal-h. 


4 - 


CHAPTER LX XX. 


Their 

immlii'L' 


'L'heir rmmej. 


Fadmaketo. 


Avarta, 


Sanavarta. 


TABLE OF COMETS OF MIDDLE JIEftilJT I.S THE SKi — Cuntit, uoL 


from wh&t 
direction! they 
appear. 


South. 


West, 


Wesr. 


Description. 


It is as white ns the white lotus. It. 
lusts one night. 


It- appears at midnight, bright shining 
and light gray. Its ta^l extends from 
the JeD to the right. 


With n tail with .l sharp edge. Ii has 
t he colour of smoke nr bronze, I L 
extends ever one-third of heaven, am., 
appears during the Sitttidhi, 


urogiiosiifla* 


It. bodes fertility, joy, and happiness for 
seren years. 


It bodes wealth during as many months 
as its appearance lasts t^uMrfws. 


The lunar station in which st. appears 
b&comee unlucky. It ruins as well 
that, which it bode-s, as the lunar 
station. It bodes the unsheatihing of 
the weapons and the destruction of 
the kings. Its snilueuce lasts as many 
years as it* appearance lasts nvuh&rtati. 


A LEER UNI'S INDIA . 


CHAPTER LXXX r 


24S 


This is the doctrine of the Hindus regarding the EVe 
comets and their presages. 

Only few Hindus occupy themselves in the same On 
way as physical scholars among the ancient Greeks 
did, with exact scientific researches on the comets and 
on the nature of the other phenomena of heaven 
(r«. /Aerew/ja), for also in these things they are not able 
to rid themselves of the doctrines of their theologians. 
Thus the Mat&ya-Purana says 

“There are four rains and four mountains* and 
their basis is the water* The earth is placed on four 
elephants, standing in the four cardinal directions* 
which raise the water by their trunks to make the 
seeds grow. They sprinkle water in summer and 
snow in winter. The fog is the servant of the rain, 
raising itself up to it-* and adorning the clouds with 
the black colon r.” 

With regard to these four elephants the Book of the 
McfHHne of Elephants says : — 

11 Home mule elephants excel man in cunning. There- 
fore it is considered a bad omen if they stand at the 
1 lead of a h e rd o f them , T! i ey are cal ] ed m a ng n n ik «. (r ) . 
Some of them develop only one tooth, others three and 
four* those which belong to the race of the elephants 
bearing the earth. Men do not oppose them ; and if 
they fall inks a trap, they are left to their fate." 

The Vayu-Pnrana says 

£J The wind and the surds ray raise the water from 
the ocean to the sun. If the water were to drop down 
from the sun, rain would be hot Therefore the sun 
hands the water over to the moon, that it should drop 
down from it as cold water and refresh the world.” 

As regards the phenomena of the sky, they say, for 
instance, that l he thunder is the roaring of Airtiv&M, 

Le., the riding-elephant of indra the ruler, when it 
drinks from the pond Manasa, rutting and roaring with 
a hoarse voice. 


A LBERUNPS INDIA . 


Cottalugkm. 


246 

The rainbow (lit. bow of Kn^b.) m the bow of 
Indra,, as our common people consider it as tile bow of 
Rustam, 

We think now that what we have related in this 
book will be sufficient for any one who wants to con- 
verse with the Hindus, and to discuss with them 
questions of religion t science * or literature, on the very 
basis of their own civilisation. Therefore wo shall 
finish this treatise, which has already, both by its length 
and breadth, wearied, the reader. We ask God to 
pardon ns for every statement of on re which if? not 
true. Wo ask Him to help us that we may adhere to 
that which yields Him satisfaction. We ask Him to 
lead ns to a proper insight into the nature of that which 
is false and idle, that we may sift it so as to distinguish 
the chaff from the wheat* All good comes from Him, 
and it is Lie who is clement towards 1 1 is staves. Praise 
be to God, the Lord of the worlds, and His blessings be 
upon the prophet Hu ham mad atsd Ids whole family! 


ANNOTATIONS. 


VOL. I. 











ANNOTATIONS. 


VOL. I. 

P. i. Title r — The author proposes to investigate the 
= kakika)o\' Hindu modes of thought, in the entire 
extent of the subject. He describes the religions, literary, 
and scientific traditions of India, not the country and its 
inhabitants. However, in some chapters be gives more 
than the title promises ; cf. his notes on the roads and on 
the courses of the rivers. 

The contents of the eighty chapters of the hook may be 
arranged under the following heads : — 

Chap, i. General Introduction* 

Chap. 2-1 in On Religious, Philosophical, and cognate 
subjects. 

Chap. 12—17, On Literature and Metrology, Strange 
Customs and Superstitions, 

Chap. 18-31, On Geography. Descriptive, Mathemati- 
cal, and Traditional, i.g, Paumnia 

Chap. 32-62. On Chronology and Astronomy, inter- 
spersed with chapters of Religious Tradition, ejj. on Nara- 
yana, Yasndeva, &c. 

Chap. 63-76. On Laws, Manners and Customs, Festivals 
and Fast Days. 

Chap* 7 7- So. On Astrological Subjects. 

The word nufk-dlu, translated by category, is a technical 
term of Arabian philosophy. It was coined by the first 
Arabian translators of Aristotle for the purpose of render- 
ing Ki'.rriynpZa, and has since become current in the school 
language of Islam (cf. the Arabic title of A risM&Hs Cate- 
gorue Gm ee mm mrsione AraMm, &c., edid r J, Tli. Zenker, 
Lipsise. 1846). The Syrian predecessors of those Arabian 
translators had simply transferred the Greek word just as 


2 S° 


ALBBRUNPS INDIA , 


it i;s into their own Language; cj\ e f (/ m Jacob of Edcesa Ili 
(t. Hoffmann's Ik Jlernimimiiei mptid Syr os Ariaio(dcis } 
Gipsies, 1869* p. 17. 

That a Muslim author should investigate the ideas of 
idolaters, and not only such as Muslims may adopt, but 
also such as they must reject, and condemn, that he quotes 
the Koran and the Gospel side by side (p. 4-5)= is a proof 
of a. broadness of view and liberality of mind more fre- 
quently met with in the ancient times of Mam, in the 
centuries before the establishment of Muhammadan ortho- 
doxy by Alghasta&li (died a .d. im) f than later. There 
was more field for utterances of mental individuality before 
the ideas of all the nations of Islam were moulded into a 
unity which makes it difficult to recognise the individual 
influences of every single nation on the general develop- 
ment of the Muhammadan mind, before all Islam had 
become one huge religious community, in which local and 
national differences seem to have lost most of their original 
importance for the spiritual life of man. The work of 
Albernni is unique in Muslim literature, as an earnest 
attempt to study an idolatrous world of thought, not pro- 
ceeding from the intention of attacking and refuting it, 
but uniformly showing the desire to be just and impartial, 
even when, the opponent's views are declared to be in ad- 
missible. There can be hardly a doubt that under other 
circumstances, in other periods of Muslim history and 
other countries, the present work might have proved fatal 
to its author; and it si lows that the religious policy of 
King Mahmfld, the great destroyer of Hindu temples and 
idols, under whom Albernni wrote, must have been so 
liberal as to be rarely met with in the annals of Islam 
(qf- pp- 268, 269), 

P. 5. The mmter ’Abti-SaM, Sc. -Al-tiflM, he. a native 
of Till is in the Caucasus, is not known from other sources. 
1 suppose he was one of the high civil functionaries of the 
realm or court of Mahmud. The name Hahl occurs very 
frequently among men of Persian descent of those times, 
a 1 ] d tli e title Udddk = master, lain t.h e r J ’a ' rl k h -i- Bai h ak i 
always prefixed, if not precisely as an official title, at all 
event?? as a title expressive of profound respect on the 
part of the speaker, to the names of the ministers and 


A NNOTA TIONS. 


2$i 


highest civil officials of MaljmM and Mas f ud, such as 
Bit S&hl Zhu'miuL .BCl Sail Hamdutii, Bu Xasr Mushkfln, 
tile minister of state, whose secretary Al-baihalu was, as 
well as to the name of Alberuni('V*1 f i6), but never fco the 
names of the great military men {of. entitles in the Ghaz- 
nawi empire, A. de Bi berate in Kuzhnirski, Memui£ukr% 
Paris* 1887, p, 30 R). Administrative skill was a legacy 
left by the organisation of the Hasan ian empire to the 
["ei-sians of later centuries, whilst military qualities seem 
entirely to have disappeared among the descendants of 
Rustam For all the generals and officers of Mahmud 
and Mas ud were Turks* as Al 1 11 n task, Arslan Jfidhib, Ari- 
yarok, Uagtagin, Rilkfit&gin, Niyaltagin, Noshtagvn, &c/ 
The G bazna princes spoke Persian with their civil function- 
aries, Turkish with their generals and soldiers (</. Billot, 
History of India, ii. Si, 102). 

IT 5, The Mu ti<\Ua sceL — The dogma, God has no know- 
In lye, is part of their doctrine on the qualities of God, 
main tain ed Gtp c daily by M a m ar I bn 1 A bbad A l -Hu lam i . 
(Of* on this and related subjects the treatise of H- Steiner, 
1 'he Mntazilitcu odor (He IVHdevker im Islam, Leipzig, 
1865. pp> 30* 52, 59, and AI-ShahrastftnTs “ Book of Reli- 
gious and Philosophical Sects,” edited by Cure ton, London, 
1846, p. 30,11, 7-9), Proceeding from the study of Greek 
philosophy, the doctors of this school tried to save Lite 
free will of man as against predestination. There was 
once in Arabic a large literature composed by them and 
by their opponents, most of which is unknown, at all 
events not yet brought to light. Most of these books 
were of a polemical nature, and it is against their polemi- 
cal bias that the criticism of ATberuui is directed. With 
regard to his own work, he expressly declares (p. 7) that 
it is not a polemical one. The book which Abit-S&hl had 
before him* and which gave rise to the discussion between 
him and our author, was probably one tike that of Abiil- 
hasan Al-’ash'ari (died a.k 93 5). the great predecessor of 
Alghazsali, On the Qualities of God.” in which he attacks 
the Mutuzila doctrine of the negation of God’s omni- 
science. ( Uf. W,. Spitta, Zttr GtsckkkU Ahidhasan AG 
'AAiarfs, Leipzig, 1876. p. 64.} The same author has 
also written an extensive w T ork against the antagonists of 


252 


A LB ER UNI'S INDIA > 


the orthodox faith, against Brahmins, Christians^ Jews, 
and Msgians (v, ib. p, 68), 

Our information regarding the ancient literature on the 
history of religion and philosophy (the latter proceeding 
from a work of the Ne opiate nisi Porphyrins) is very 
scanty , and mostly limited to titles of books* The work 
of Sliahrasta.nl (died A.D. 1153) is a late compendium, or 
(v, his prof.,. 1, 8). 1*1 is editor, C n reton ? intended to 

give Observations respecting the sources from which this 
author lias probably derived his information” (English 
prof*, p. iv.), but, as far as I am aware* he has not carried 
out Ids intention. There is an excellent treatise on the 
history of religions in the Filtrirt of Al-nadim (composed 
abo ut a. p , 98 7 ) on p, r 1 A — r c 1 „ The e amc author in e ntion s 
(V- ' vvj an older work on doctrines and religions by 
Alhasan I fan VI usd Alnaubakhtt (mentioned by Mashldl), 
who also wrote against metempsychosis* Parts of a simi- 
lar work of Ibn Ifazm, an Arab of Spain (died A.D, 1064), 
are extant in the libraries of Vienna and Leyden* Mr. 
0 . Schefer has recently published in. his Chrcslomathie 
Persane, Paris, 1883, a useful little book in Persian called 
Si i Lj S 3 co m posed by Abu 1 - 31 a u li _V1. ulmmm ad 1 bn 

1 Ukaifa who wrote in Grhazna, under the king MasM I bn 
Ibrahim (aid, 1089-1099), half a century after AlberunJ 

whose Indica he quotes in his book. He calls it jA,T, 

if “The Doctrines of the Hindus ( p-'TaJ. r J Vo more 
treatises in Persian on the history of religions are men- 
tioned by CL ibchefer* Okre-skmalMe J*eTsane } pp. [36, j 37. 

An author who seems to have written on subjects con- 
nected with the history of religions is one Abu- Yakub of 
Mijiatan, as Albernni (i* 64-65) quotes his theory on the 
metempsychosis from a book of his, called KUiW-hmitf- 
alrm.uhj'ith * 

l J p. 6-7. AlSrdmhahri and Znrhht . — Our author has 
not made any use of the Midi am mad an literature on the 
belief of the Hindus, as far as such existed before his 
time ; evidently he did not give it the credit of a bond fids 
source of historical information. Throughout his book 
he derives his statements exclusively either from Indian 
books or from what lie had heard himself, lie makes a 11 


ANNOTATIONS. 


*53 


exception of this rule only in favour of Al&T&nshahr!, the 
author of a general work on the history of religions. 
Albertmi seems to have known this book already (jLD. 
I'OOo) when he wrote his £i Chronology,” for there he gives 
two quotations, one an Erunian, and the other an Armenian 
tradition > on the authority of AlArunshalirt (y. ■’ Chrono- 
logy of Ancient Nations/ 1 &e., translated by Dr. fA Edward 
Saobau, London. I S79, pp. 20S. 211). 

The word Erdnsliahr was known to the Arabs as the 
name of the whole Sasani.au empire, from the Oxns to the 
Euphrates. So it is used, c,g. by AbCGAli "Ahmad Ibn 
'Umar Ibn Dust a in his geographical work (British 
Museum, add. 23,378 on fol. r 200 ). where he describes the 
whole extent of it. If, however, Er&nshabr here means 
the place where the author A bn l 1 abbas was born, we must 
take the word in the more restricted meaning, which is 
mentioned by Albaludhun. For it is also the name of a 
part of the Basanian empire* vis. one of the four provinces 
of KhurilsaEi. the country between Nislmpur, Tbs, and 
Tf erfit . Accordir t gl y , we sir p p ose tha t A lerau shat lri 11 1 eans 
a native of this particular province* Cf. Almukaddasb 
p. r 1 r, Yak ft t, i. r 1 \ A ccord i n g to anotl ler t rad 1 ti ojj, th e 
name Erin shah r also applied to N’isMpur, i.e. •the name 
of the province was used to denote its capital, Cf. Almu- 
kaddaal, p. f \ Y 

Aiet'ansbahri. a sort of freethinker according to Albc- 
runi, is only once quoted (i, 3 26, a Buddhistic tradition 
on the destruction and renovation of the world). But as 
Alberuni praises his description of Judaism, Christianity, 
and Man icb seism, we may suppose that the information of 
the liuhea on these subjects, s.r/. the quotation from the 
Gospel (p. 4 5}, was taken from Frans hah rA 

Incorporated in the work of Eruushahri; was a treatise 
on Buddhism by an author, Z urban, who is entirely 
unknown. Although Alberuni speaks very slightingly 
of this author, and although he does not mention him 
anywhere save in the preface, lie seems to have borrowed 
from him those notes on Buddhistic subjects tv hi oh are 
scattered through his work (v. Ivtdmc Iterum* s,y h Bud- 
dhists)* Tliis sort of information is not of a very high 
standard, but other sources on Buddhism, literary or oral, 
do not seem to have been at the command of Alberuni* 
The Hindus with whom he mixed were of the B rah m laical 


ALBERUNPS INDIA . 


^54 

croed, not Buddhists* In the countries where he had 
lived, in Khwariftm. Jtirjan, the country round Ghazua 
(Xalimlistan), and the Paujub, there bad been no oppor- 
tunity for 1 studying Buddhism i and also among the nume- 
rous soldiers, officers, artisans, and other Indians in the 
service of Mahmud in Ghazni and other places, there do 
not seem to have been Buddhists, or else Alberuni would 
have used such occasions for filling out this blank in his 
know ledge, 

in the Fihvid (ed. G, Fliigel, Leipzig, 1871)? 011 P- 
rTVrai there is an extensive report on India and China, 
which is derived from the following sources 

e. The account of Abii-Dtilaf of YanbiY, who had 
travelled to India and China about A.m 94 1 + 

2 . That of a Christian monk from Xajrfyn, who by order 
of the Nestorian Katholikos had also travelled to India 
and China in the years A.D. 980-987, 

3. From a book dated A.D, 863, of an unknown author, 
a book which had passed through the hands of the famous 
Alkindi Was t his perhaps the w or k of Ale r a n sh al 1 r i , a n d 
the note on Buddha on p. Hr V by Xurkhn V 

The origin of the chapter on Indian subjects in Shah- 
rasta.nl (ed. Cure ton, London, 1846), on p, rf'f' seq, is not 
known. At all events, this author has not made use of 
Alter uni’s work. 

Pp, 7-S* _ Greeks 1 Sufis, Christians. — In order to illustrate 
the ideas of the Hindus, and to bring them nearer to the 
understanding of his Muslim readers, Alberuni quotes 
related ideas — 

e 4 Of the Greeks (cf. b 24). 

2. The Christians, 

3. The Jews. 

4. The Manich leans ; and 

5. The S-df-ix. 

Pantheism in Islam, the doctrine of the Sftfis, is as near 
akin to the Neoplatonic and Xeo Pythagorean schools of 
Greek philosophy as to the Vedanta school of Hindu 
philosophers. It was in our author’s time already repre- 
sented by a very large literature* He quotes some Sflf! 
sentences, vjj. of A bn Bakr Al-shiblq and Abft Yazid 
AlbisChui, who are known from other sources fi. 87, 88), 


A SNOT A TIONS. 




and a Sftfi interpretation of a Koranic passage (h SS). 
Of besides, the Index'- ifemm, s.v, Sufism » lie gives i. 33 , 
34 * several etymologies of the word Sufi, which he himself 
identifies with 

The notes relating to Man; and the Manicheeans (v. 
Index Rernm), and the quotations from their books, are 
probably mostly taken from AlMnshuhri (v. p. 18), 
However, it must be kept in mind that, at the time of 
our author, the works of Miiiu still existed, and lie him- 
self found the u Book of Mysteries” and others in his 
native country* though perhaps at a time subsequent to 
the date of the composition of the Indica* Of. Chronologic. 
Oriental ischf-r Volke?\ heransgegeben von Ed , Sack an, 
Leipzig, 1878, Vonvort, pp. xl and xxxvi. The following 
works of Muni are quoted: ’‘Book of Mysteries,” u_^b£ 

jijJS *' ; Thesaurus vivijlcationU -LrJSi i. 39* Of Jlfani, 

seine Le/ire und seine tSchrif ten, by Cl. Fltigel, Leipzig, 1862. 

As regards the Jews, 1 am not. informed to what degree 
Jewish colonies were in those times spread over Oen- 
1 rid Asia, Alberum derived probably his knowledge of 
Judaism also from Alfiranshahri (p. 233), That in earlier 
years, during his stay in Jurpn, he was acquainted with 
a Jewish scholar is apparent from his chronological work 
( f£ Chronology of Ancient Nations,” p. 269). 

A 1 her uni's knowledge of Christianity may have been 
communicated by various channels besides the book of 
his predecessor Alerfinshahrf, as during his time it was 
far spread in Central Asia, and even at the court of 
Mahmud in Charm a (ex/. Abulkhmr Alhhmmndy, p. 256), 
there lived Christians. It has not yet been investigated 
in detail how far Nestorlan Christianity had been carried 
eastward across Central Asia towards and into China. 
Of. Aesemani’s Notiita Fcdesiaruvi Mdropolila k aru m- et 
Rpiscopaliu m qu m a m d Fat riarcha ■ Ne& tor d mo S it.bjeciw 
(Bibliotheca Orientali^ vol. iy, p, DCCY, Barhe brums 

speaks of TJiguri monks (ib. ii. 256), and 

from the same time date some of Hie Syriac inscriptions 
on Christian tombstones recently found in Russian Central 
A sia an d p u bl i sh ed in Peters b u rg, 1 8 86+ A 1 b en 1 n i. m en - 
tions Christians in his native country Khw&riam (Khiva), 
and in Khuriisftn, and not only Nestorians but also Mel- 


A LB BRUNTS INDIA . 


^56 

kites, whilst he expressly states that he does not know 
the Jacobites. Gf. ff Chronology of Ancient Nations/' pp. 
283^4; 2Q2> 12 l 295. 22; 3 [2, 16. 

Where Albertmi learned Greek philosophy, and who 
introduced him to the study of Plato's. Dialogues and Leges t 
lie does not state himself. The Arabic translation 5 which 
he used, and which arc tolerably correct, had passed 
through Syriac versions which are now no longer extant 
{tijj. those of Plato). Aider uni was personally acquainted 
and had literary connections with a man who was one of 
the first representatives of Greek learning in the Muslim 
world in that age, Abulkhair Alkh-ammar, and it was 
perhaps to him that Alberani owed part of his classical 
education, Abulkhair was born a Christian in Bagdad, 
AJL 942. lie lived some time in Kkwftrmn, and migrated 
thence, together with Alhemni and others, to Gkazna, A.u, 
1017, after Mahmfid had annexed that count n to his 
empire. He died in G bazna during Mahmud's reign, i<\ 
before AJK 1030, and is said to have become a Muslim 
towards the end of his life. He was a famous physician, 
and wrote on medical subjects and on Greek philosophy; 
besides he translated the works of Greek philosophers 
(e.fl. Theophraet) from Syriac into Arabic. Of his writ- 
ings we may mention a “Book of Comparison of the 
Theory of the (Greek) Philosophers and of the Christians/ 1 
“Explanation of the Theory of the Ancients (tie. Greek 
philosophers) regarding the Creator and regarding Laws/' 
“The Life of the Philosopher/' Ll On the IjAtj/* On Meteo- 
rology/' &c. His pedigree points to a Persian descent, Gj\ 
Gkfondqgie Orkntaliseher Volker, Bhdeitung, p. xxxii., 
FiArfct p, r 1 fc, and the work of Shahmahri JJJ jL - ; 

^9 - 51 1 (manuscript of the II oval Library of Berlin t MSS. 

Orient, oct, 217, fol. 1446-146(11); C. Schefer, - Chrzdo- 
■m-a.tMe Dermm, p, 141, 

It must be observed that Alberuni, in comparing Hindu 
doctrines with those of Plato, follows in the wake of 
Megasthenesn who says : llapu-XL-ovrn. SI koZ pvBovs, 

UCF3TC/) Kid II Ar'iT<rU', TTtfH T£ d<ji&a.ptTLtLS li V ^ / Vl KiU TWV KU.ff 

(ttiov Kpi&tto v kuI iiXka ruttt&ra (Schwaribeck, Bonn, 1846, 
1?. 138). 


P. 8. SdnMiya (or Sdrhkkipl) and P&ta-fljftla , — The 


A N NOT A T IONS, 


-$7 

form er word is here written tihigu 1 ^ It may be 
doubtful whether the second is to be read PcftaTtjtrfa or 
psdffvjtdi. Alberuni generally say s <— 'tif, which 

may be translated the. hook of (the author) Fatanfili, or 
the hook (which is called) FaiaftjaM or PMaTtjfda* Only 
in one place, L 68 5), he says u-j'if \_^\* } the 

author of lh&. hook of Patavjali, where apparently Ja&sJb 
means the title of the book, not the name of the anti ion 
Th e 1 on g a i n th e A ra bie w r i c in g would rath er i n d i ca fee tl j e 
pron 1 1 nei a ( i 01 1 Pdiafijala th an Fata h jal i, but in th i s respect 
the transliteration is not always uniform, as sometimes 
a short Indian a has been rendered by a long d in Arabic, 
o.g. Jb Uda, +- r brahman, t— ys> -vi l? (jan t Hi m ■ va , 

madhyalohi, J by* suiaht.. jgJ ifjayano.ndm, j\*pa ra, jJu 
r 0 so r djyc'l’* mat h urd , J 'J U wi ahdt t th L On ly in t \v 0 pi ace s 
the wprd evidently moans the author; i. 70 (n* f 20), 

and 87 (i~r* 5 j)- I 'ho name of the author seems to have 
been current also as meaning his book. Therefore, and be- 
cause i n San s k ri t ge nera 1 1 y tl 1 e n a m e 1 h:t f. a hjt di 1 s q note d , I 
have given the preference to the latter form of the name. 

Aider uni has transferred large portions of his transla- 
tions of the books Sdmkhya and Fatamjali, which he had 
published at an earlier date, into the lndim t 

Pp, 17—19, — In a similar way to A I born 111, the poet Mir 
Khnsrau discourses on classical and vernacular in his 
JVuh-i^iihr. He mentions the word Sanskrit, whilst Albe- 
nmi only speaks of HituH (v. Elliot, li History of India, J> 
iii. 562, 556; also v. 570, On the Knowledge of Sanskrit 
by M nhammadans ?:i ). 

" There were Hindu dragomans in the service of Mahmud, 
both in the civil administration and in the army, large 
portions of which were Hindus under Hindu officers 
( El 1 iot it 309', -^ c - irrt 9 f 0 11 ght in Kar m a 1 1 , Kh w ft r i s> it 1 , an d 
before Merw for their -VI 11 slim master, ib. iL 130, 131), 
part of these troops were Kanivj-ra, ly. natives of Kama- 
tade^a (here i. 1 73). 

A specimen of these interpreters is Titak, the son of 
Jai Sen (hr. Til aka the son of Jay as on a). After having 

VOL, IT, K 


25 ® 


ALBERUNPS INDIA. 


pursued his studies in Kashmir, he became interpreter first 
to ljudi Shtr&zi Bull,iapn 1 AIL a high civil official under 
Hahmftd and Mas'fid (Elliot, ii. i 17, 123), then to Ahmad 
Ifcrn Ilasan of Maim and, who was grand vis'd r, a.tl 1007- 
1025. under Mahmud, and a second time, 1030-1033, 
under Mas fid, and rose afterwards to be a commanding 
officer in the army (Elliot, ii. 123-127). This class of 
men spoke and wrote Hindi (of course with Arabic char- 
acters) and Persian (perhaps, also Turkish, as this language 
prevailed in the army), and it is probably in these circles 
that, we must look for tlio origin of Urdfi or Hindustani, 
The first author who wrote in this language, the Dante of 
M nhammadan India, is one Masud, who died a little more 
than a century after the death of King Mahirifid (a .it, 3 2 5 
= A.D. 1131). Of. A, Sprenger, " Catalogue of the Arabic, 
Persian, and Hindu slany Manuscripts of the Libraries of 
the King of Qudh," Calcutta, I S 34, pp. 407, 4S5. If we 
had any of the Hindi writings of those times, they would 
probably exhibit the same kind of Indian speech as that 
which is found in Alberuni’s book. 

P. 1 S .- — The bearing of the words ^ ■— d^b (9, 

14, 15), which T have translated “and must pronounce the 
case -endings ei t her/" &c,, is doubtful. The word *£rdb 
means the process or mode 0/ AraMzmy a foreign word, and 
refers both to consonants and vowels. A11 'irtib mashhUr 
would be a generally known Arabic mode of pronunciation 
of it word of Indian oru/in, an 'i' rah md mill such a pro- 
nunciation of an Indian word in Arabic as is not yet 
known, but invented for t 3 ie purpose* E.g. the Sanskrit, 
word dvipa appears in two different forms, as dAb. 
which must be classed under the first head, and as dMp> 
which belongs to the second class. If it is this the 
author means, we must observe that the former class, %e, 
the class of words which had already general currency in 
Arabic before he wrote his Indica, is insignificantly small 
in Comparison with the large number of words which by 
Albernni were for the first time presented to a reader of 
Arabic (v* preface of the edition of the Arabic original, 
p. xxyib)* 

Another meaning of the word H'rdb is the mwd-pronuu- 
c it 1 1 ion t ft th f. eit d of th e v-o t 'ds, cl 1 iejly the nouns; in fact 


ANNOTATIONS, 


?S9 


the case -endings. Accordingly, '-i mb mmhhilr may mean 
case- ending (m German, rocaUscker Audaot) as if is gene- 
rally mad in Hindi, e.g. U._df gttd, remit, and 'irah 

rud-imd, a. case-ending added to a word purposely in order to 
make it amenable to the ru'es of Arabic declension (dip- 
tot on and triptoton ),£.'/■ tanka = Who lankh 4 } jSijm.mi 

— Kkr .Gamf ,s_L Mudu = Skr. Vindht/tt. The vocalisation 

of these words is liable to lead us into an error. Is an 

Arabic dip to ton, or is its final vocal the termination of the 
noun in Hindi ? If the former were the case, wo ought. 

also to have in genitive and accusative, and we ought 
to read ^ a cade (vary a), an impure one (mUeeha), 

n 

a (wi&na), &c. But these forms do not occur 

in the manuscript, and therefore J hold the termination u to 
be the Indian nominative, developed out of the d of Prakrit, 
an d s til 1 ex U mt in ftindhi. ( Cj ' E, Tr um p j. >, IJ ie Ski v i m b ik 
dung dcs Sindhi, mi -Ton mal of the German Oriental Society," 
xvh p. 1 29; Ids “Grammar of the Sindhi Language," p. 32). 
The Arabic manuscript is not sufficiently accurate to enable 
us to form an opinion to what extent names in A 1 her uni's 
Hindi terminated in u t but we must certainly say that 
this is the case in the vast majority of nouns, if we are 
correct in this, the term 'ir&h mdvnU cannot mean an. 
artificial case-ending or one inrenkd or added for the par- 
pose, because it existed already in the Indian dialect whence 
Albenmi took the word. 

Of the words UjuojD_i c-?U!Ui ■ ■ JU.WJ- 1 

u. 1*1 t-jhrLj the former half refers to the 

writing of the consonants (and perhaps of the Leseztdehen). 
Accordingly the latter half ought to refer to the vowels ; 
but r i*r&b does not mean wtvds or Tocalimt'wn pit only means 
tim vocalisation of Hie final consonant of i he word. There- 
fore 1 am inclined to prefer the first of the two interpreta- 
tions here proposed, and to translate for in. order to fir 
the prvmtneiatimt- we must change the points (i.e, the ilia- 

critical points of the consonant, CJ cJ >-J J J j j , &c,) 
and the. signs { perhapshe means the Hamza, which cannot; be 


ALBBRUNI’S INDIA. 


260 

applied to Indian sounds), and mad secure Us carved pro- 
nunciaiim by such a process of Arabising as is either already 
in general use or is carried mtt (or invented) for the pur- 
pose. This is an example (and there are hundreds more) 
of the concise style of the author, so sorely fraught with 
ambiguity. Every single word is perfectly dear and cer- 
tain, and still the sentence may be understood in entirely 
different ways. 

V. IU- 3. Wkieh in- our Persift/t gnmrtit*d.in(l sydmi 
are considered n$ t &£* — Literally, 11 Which our companions 
call having/’ &c. Speaking of his fellow-Mu slims in 
opposition to the Hindus, the author always says onr con i- 
ptmio n js, our j wpl e, n 0 1 m ean in g n ati on a 1 d i ff ereuc 03 , Arab , 
Persian, or Turk, but exclusively the difference of creed. 

In Sanskrit a word (a syllable) may commence with 
one, two, or three consonants, e.g. dH t fyd, stH, tehmjUt-, 
which is impossible in Arabic, where each syllable begins 
an d en, ds w i th 0 m con son an t on Iy . A 1 b er mil's a > in pari s 01 1 
cannot, therefore, refer to Arabic. 

In Persian, the rules for the beginning and end of the 
syllable are different. Whilst in the ancient forms of 
Eranian speech a syllable could commence with two con- 
son ants, as, r.jj. f rata via t hhsapa, Neo- Persian permits only 
on e co n sonant at t h e begi n mu g of a syllabi e, fa rd uni , &h a b. 
However, the end of a syllable may consist of two con- 
secutive consonants, as in ydfl b, baksk , Miushh 
t ward **j+3 Alberuni seems to hint at these ex- 
amples, and at a doctrine of certain grammarians, who are 
not known, to this effect, that the first of these two conso- 
nants is to be considered as having not a complete or 
clear vowel, but an indistinct hidden one, something like 
a schwa mobile of Hebrew grammar. 

There is a small number of words (or syllables) in Neo- 
Persian which indeed commence with the two consonants 

as, e.g. l ? but 

they were at the author’s time pronounced as a single one, it’ 
we niny judge from the metrical system of the Shdhnd-ma of 
his contemporary Firdausi, who was only a little older [.ban 
himself. ((/. similar remarks of the author, i 138, 139.) 

"P. 20 , fUagara.- The story of Sagarais related in Viskmr- 
l^trdpUj translated by Wilson -Hall, vol. lit. p, 289-295, 

The words *^*-y and ^\\ might make 


! NNOTA TIONS 


261 


nf> think that these events happened within the recollec- 
tion of the author; but this is not necessarily the case. 
The former words may be interpreted, hl 1 recoUcct the dory 
of u Hindu whof &t\, i.e. fi I recollect having heard the 
story, 11 &a ; and the words with which ha winds up the 
story may mean, M feel thankful to my fate that it was 
not f and ray contemporaries whom he treated thus, hut 
f 0 r 1 1 1 e r generatio n s. r ? 


F. 2 ! , y%£immiyya * — The Buddhists are in Arabic called 
by this name,, which is derived from a Frakritic form of 
Sanskrit mm am (Strabo Hieronymus Sam- 

aiutei), and by the word in\ the red robed-people 

( = rffklopaitt). which refers to the red-brown ( = lihkdyit) 
cloak e of t he Bit d d h 1 st in on ks . Of- Ivor u , Dei r JJudd h im 1 us 
und urine (f esc Inch te in Indi.en, iibersefzt von ii Jacobi, 
Leipzig^ 1882, in 45. See another note of out author's on 
Buddhism in his * ( Chronology of Ancient Nations/ 1 pp+ 
1 88, 1.89, It is extremely difficult, from the utter lack of 
historic tradition, to check the author's statements as to 
the western extension of Buddhism., which certainly never 
reached Mosul. Before ah, it will bo necessary to examine 
how far Albernni, when speaking of the ancient history 
and institutions of Fran, was under the influence of the 
poets of his time, Dakiki, Asad k and Firdausi, who 
versified Eranian folklore for the edification of the states- 
men of the 8am a ni an. and Ghaznavi empires, all of them 
of Eranlan descent. Hearing the songs of the heroic 
exploits of their ancestors consoled them to a certain 
degree for the only too palpable fact that their nation was 
no longer the ruling one, but subject to another; that 
Arabs and Turks had successively stepped into the heritage 
of their ancestors. 

It must be observed that the negotiators of the cities 
of Sindh, whom they sent to the Muslim conquerors when 
first attacked by them, were invariably iramjmm {v+ 
Albnlfidhud), which seems to indicate that Sindh in those 
times, Le, about a.D, 710. was Buddhistic. Cf. II. Kern, Iter 
Bnddhhmus uud seine GtiscMchte in Indian, ii. 543. 

P, 2i. Mnhmmn.ad Ihn AWcamn , — The brilliant career 
of the conqueror of Sindh falls into the years A.n + 70 / - 
714, By Albalndhuri (p. Pn), Ibn-Ar&tiiir, and others 


162 


ALB BRUNTS INDIA, 


lie is called 'Am Ij. I bn Atkasi m I bn Muktuwttutd, not Urn 
ALmunabbili, as here and p. n 6. When Albert mi wrote; 
Islam was known in Sindh already 3 50 years (since A . il 
680), and was established there 320 years (since about 
a,d. 7 IQ). On the history of the conquest of Sindh, rf t 
A.lbatadtmrTs Jfitdh-alfnt&h, p. Ff" r, translated by Re ilia lid, 
Fragments/ 1 p. 182: Elliot, History of India, i. 1 r 3 . 

Instead of Bah man va read Bamhrmvd = Irmhwwnmaia. 

P. 23. The words of Yarfihamihira are found in Ins 
U r ih a t- 8 n n m iia. tr< 1 n si afced ) >y Ke rri i n tb e ' ( J o> 1 r n al of 
the Koyal Asiatic Society/' 1870, p. 441 (ii. 15): “The 
Greeks, indeed, art;- foreigners, but with them this science 
is iti a flourishing state. Hence they arc honoured as 
though they were I tishis ; how much more then a twice- 
born man, if he be versed in astrology,” 

1 \ 25. Think of Socrates, (fee, — The author speaks of a 
Socmtic faU- or ealmnUy, meaning a fate like that which 
befell Socrates, I do not know from what particular 
source Alberuni and his conte mporaries derived their in- 
formation about the history of Greek philosophy. There 
is a broad stream of literary tradition on this subject in 
Arabic literature, but it has not yet been investigated 
what was its origin, whether it proceeded from one source 
or from several, Those men, mostly Greek heathens from 
Hamm or Syrian Christians, who had enjoyed the Greek 
education of the time, not only translated Greek literature 
into Syriac and Arabic for the benefit of their Arab mas- 
ters, but wrote also general works on the history of Greek 
learning and literature, probably translating and adopting 
for their purpose some one of the most current school- 
books on this subject, used in the schools of Alexandria, 
Athens^ Antioch, Among authors who wrote such 

books, some being mere compilations of the famous sen- 
tences of Greek sages (doxographic), others having; a more 
historic character, are Hnnahi Ibn Msbak, his son Tshak 
Ibu Htmain, and Krista Ibn Lft kit (i.e. Go 11 stuns the son 
of Lucas), lint what were the Greek works from which 
they took their information, and which they probably 
communicated to the Arabs exactly as they were? 1 am 
inclined to think that they used works of Porphyrins and 
Ammon ins, the Greek originals of which are no longer 
extant. 


ANNOTATIONS. 


263 


P. 25. Jitrare in cerlni, d&c. — The Hindus consider, cjj * 
the sciences of astronomy and astrology as founded upon 
tradition, and their authors produce in their books side 
by side their own perhaps more advanced ideas and some 
silly notions of any predecessors of theirs, although they 
are fully aware that both are totally irreconcilable with 
each other. Of the words of VarShamihira to this elf eel, 
in Bribed Samkitd, ix, 7, and the note of his commentator 
Utpala to v. 32, Alberuni pronounces most energetically 
against this kind of scientific composition when speaking 
of Brahmagupta in chapter lix. on eclipses* 

,P + 27, Beyond all likened wad an expression 

frequent in the description of the Deity, later ally trans- 
lated : things that are oppodU to each other and things t hat- 
ore like each other. Perhaps the rhyme didd and nit Id, 
'nddM and *emdM t has contributed to the coining of this 
term. As for the idea, it may be compared with the term 
tlmndr<U in Hindu philosophy = pairs of opposites, as 
pleasure and paid, health and sickness. Uhat/iwad - G itd t 
n. 45, vii. 27 : “ Yoga Aphorisms of Patafijali JJ (edited by 
llajendralala. Mitra) ? iL 48, p* 1 1 1 . 

P. 27. Who is the worshipped one l <&c . — The greater 
part of this extract from Patniijali lias been translated into 
Persian by AbuhnaYiJi Muhammad I bn r IJbaid-AlPih in 
his Kti&b^aydn-aE iv.lt/an ; v. (j. 13 chef er, Qhrestom athir Fee- 

sane, u ~a -- ri : ^,'f _y. * * 

aj^Ii <L*J* a£S) uj'yf f ClTJlfM dujlj i \j jl kijSJ 

. 1 italdSj . " -u- ■ \ 1 

P. 2 /. PaianjalL — The book of this name used and trans- 
lated by the author had the form of a conversation between 
two persons, simply called “the asking one A and “the an- 
a w e ring one , ‘ ' and its su bj ecfc was tit c search fo r 1 1 he ra ti a n 
and/or the union of the soul 1 with the object of its medit&- 
tio?i (L [32), the emancipation of the soul from the fetters 
of the body (i. 8), It was a popular book of theosophy, 
propounding in questions and answers the doctrine of the 
Yoga, a theistic philosophy developed bv Pat argali out of 
th e a th ei st 1 c Satiric! 1 y a pi 1 i 1 oeopl 1 y of ~K api 1 a . Of J * Da v i e.% 
“Hindu Philosophy,” Sdhkkyd Kdvikd of limra Krishna^ 
London, 1S81, p. 1 16. The latter is called nirUvam = 


264 


ALBERUNPS INDIA. 


uo t j j 4 v i l i g a luni , the I or mer -$ei- r-ttm = ] 1 a v i 1 lg a 1 0 r d , I i 
mostly treats of -moksha (salvation) and metempsychosis. 
It contained not only theory, but also tales (i 93), Hag- 
gadie elements by way of iliust ration. 

AlberunTs Patafijali is totally different from “ The Yoga 
Aphorisms of Patafijali " (with the coni mentary of Khoja 
Mja, and an English translation by Raj end ral ala M itra, 
Calcutta, 1883), and, as far as I may judge, the philosophic 
system of the former differs in many points essentially 
from that of the Sutras. 

Moreover, the extracts given in the India* stand in no 
relation with the commentary of Khoja llftj k f although the 
commentator here and there mentions ideas which in a 
like or similar form occur in Albenmi’s work, both works 
he i n g in ten d ed to oxpl aiii tl ie pr i nci pi es of t h e s am 0 sc h ool 
of philosophy. 

Besides the text of F&taiijali, a commentary also is 
mentioned and quoted (i. 232, 234, 236, 23 s, 248), 

j \ : o r f - 1 1 i s m os t rein ark abl e tl \ a t 

the extracts from this commentary are all of them not of a 
philosophic, but of a plainly Pa uranic character, treating 
of cosmographic subjects, the loht‘% Mount Meru, the 
different spheres, &c. The name of the commentator is 
not mentioned. If the quotations on i. 273 seq. may be 
considered as derived from this commentary, the author 
was Knl ab had ra* Vi index 1 . xv. ; . Patafijali. 

P. 29. GUti. -The book GUd is, according to Alberuni, 
a part of the book Blalred-a (i.e, Makdhhdrala-j which term 
does not occur .in the ItuUm 1 ), and a conversation between 
Vfisii d eva an d A 1 ■ j 1 m a * ■ x_ b J U) . I l/islai gel y qu ote d 

i n cl 1 a pte rs j el ati Jig to re I Lgio 11 and ph i los 0 ph y . W e h uvu 
f \ 0 w to e x a 1 1 1 i 1 1 e in what rel at lo 11 A 1 ber uni's Git a s t an d s to 
the well-known Jlhajantd-Gifd as wo have it in our time. 
Of. “ Hindu Philosophy,” “The Rbagavad-Gita, or the 
Sacred Lay,” translated by J. Davies, J .on don, 1S82. The 
latter is described as a skilful union of the systems of Kapil**- 
and Fidwhjali ivith a large admixture of the prevailing 
Bn i h n 1 anic i tod .■ d .■ m. Al tl 1 0 u gh tl \ e opi 1 1 io r 1 s regarding it s 
origin differ widely, it. can scarcely be denied that it is not 
free from having been influenced lo a certain degree by 
1 Cf. Alberu ni on the NitMbhdruOi, i, i^a, 133. 


AN NOT A TiONS 


265 


{ 1 h ri st i a 11 i Ly, m u J U j jj.1 i t. co 1 1 1 <1 r iot 1 1 av e bee 1 1 com pose d 
before the third Christian century. Chapter xi. gives, the 
impression of having been mode-bed after a Christian 
apocalypsis* 

The quotations from the Gita (or Song) may bo divided 
into three classes 

(1.) Such a& exhibit a close relationship with certain 
passages in the Wu ajm 'ttd-GilA . . Parts of .sentences are 
here and there almost identical, but nowhere whole sen- 
tences ; v. i. 40, 52, 73 ? 74, B 6 } 87, 103, [04, 21S (v, note), 
35 2 i H 

(2.) Such as show a certain similarity, more in the ideas 
expressed than in the wording, with passages In tho 
Bhi^avad- Gitd ; v. i* 29, jo> 71, 78, 79, 103. 104, 122. 

(3.) Such as cannot be compared, either in idea or in 
w 0 rd iug, wi Lh ai l y pa ssage i u t-li e Bk wj a o u l-G Ud ; y h i, 32. 
S3. 54, 70. 71,, 73. 74. 75 , ;6 ; 78, 79, So, 92. 122 ; if. [37, 
i.3B. 

The single texts will be discussed in the notes to the 
places in question* 

The quotations given by Albernni cannot have been 
translated from the Bhayf wad- Gild in its present form. 
A d m it. tin g e v ei 1 ti ; at the I t-at 1 si ator t 1 -a 1 1 si ate d as li ttle 
literally and accurately as possible (and the texts of Albe- 
rtan do not give this impression), there remains a great 
number of passages which on no account could ho derived 
from the present Sanskrit text, simply because they do not 
exist there. Or has Alberti ni translated a commentary of 
the 1 ikagavod-Gitd instead of the original ? The text of 
the extracts, as given in the- Indictt, is remarkably short 
and precise, extremely well worded, without any repeti- 
tion and verbosity, and these are qualities of style which 
hardly point, to a commentary. 

A liberum see m s to b a. ve ' J sed a r 1 ed i ti on 0 f the B k * m tga v w d- 
Gitd totally different from the one which wc know, and 
which also in India seems to be the only one known. It 
must, have been more ancient, because the notorious Yoga 
elements arc not found in it, and these have been recog- 
nised by the modern interpreters os interpolations of a 
later time. Secondly, lL must have been more complete, 
because it exhibits a number of sentences which are not 
found in the Bh nymad- Gita, 


2 66 


ALBERUNPS INDIA. 


Various generations gf Hindu scholars have modelled 
and remodelled this book, one of the most precious gems 
of their literature, and it. seems astonishing that an edition 
of it which existed as late as the time of A 1 her uni should 
not have reached the nineteenth century. 

As regards the quotation on this page (29), it exhibits 
only m the substance a distant relationship with Bhagavad- 
OUd, x- 3: f£ He who knows Me as unborn and without 
beginning, the mighty Lord of the world, he of mortals is. 
free from delusion, he is free from all sin.'' 

P, 30, S&mhhya * — The hook SMthhya, as used and 
translated by Albemni, had the form of a conversation 
between an anchorite and a sage, and it contained a 
treatise on the origine* and a description of all created 
beings (i. 8), a book ort, divine subjects (i. 132}. It was 
composed by Kapila. The author quotes it largely on 
questions of religion and philosophy* The SAmkhya 
philosophy of Kapil a is the most ancient system of 
thought among the Hindus, the source of the Yoga doc- 
trine of PatanjalL Of Colebrooke, i:i Essays/’ i. 239-279 ; 
J . Dav i es, “ Hindu PI i i 1 osop 1 ty , ” & c. , p . ioi seq. 

The relation between Albenmrs Sdvikhga and the so- 
called Sdmkhyaprmamnam ( £t The Sankhya Aphorisms of 
Kapila f translated by Bailantyne, London, 1 SS 5 ) is a 
very distant one, and is limited to this, that there occurs 
a small number of passages which show a similarity of 
matter, not of form. The latter book (the Miras) seems 
to be a la re secondary production; v, A. Weber, Vorh- 
mngm vher Tndimhe- Literakirgmkmhte, p, 254, note 2% o. 
Besides, the philosophic system propounded by A 1 her uni 
under the name of Sdmkhya seems in various and essen- 
tial points to d i ffe r from 1 1 m t 0 1 the Sul -nvt ; it seems 
altogether to have had a totally different tendency. The 
SAtrea treat of the complete cessation of pnin ; the first one 
runs thus ; fS Well, the complete cessation of pain, (which 
is) of three kind?, is the complete end of man ; T ’ whilst the 
Mmkhya of A l her uni. teaches moksha by means of know- 
ledge, 

Next we have, to compare A 1 bo r uni's S&rhfckya with 
the Sdmkhya Kdtikd of Jsvara Krishna (v. Oolebrooke, 
" Essays,” L 27 2 ; -L Dayiea, C£ Hindu Philosophy" London, 


A NNOTA TWNS 


267 


T 88 i ), iJot.Ii works leach utokska by means of knowledge, 
and contain here and there the same subject-matter. It 
must be observed that of those illustrative tales which 
Aiberuni r s Sariikkifd gives in full length , short indications 
are found in the Sdmkhj/a JOerika . Its author, Isvara 
Krishna, says at the end of his book that he has written 
his seventy SiUra^ excluding illustrative tales* This is not 
quite correct, as sometimes, though he has not told them, 
he has at all events indicated them. His words show 
that he has copied from a book like the S&mhkya oP Albe- 
runi, in which the tahs were not only indicated, but related 
at full length, Of. A. Weber, Vorlemngen fiber Indisthe 
LUendtirge$chiclde f Berlin, 1876. p. 254, note 250- Hall 
considers the $. Prmmcanam to be younger than the S. 
Kariht. 

If, in the third place, we examine the BhAshya of 
Gandapada, we find that it is not identical with Alberuni’s 
Hdm.khya^ but a near relative of it. Of. the Stirhkhya 
JCdrdid, &c*, translated by Oolehrooke, also the Bhdshya^ 
of Gaudapada, translated by If* If, Wilson, Oxford, 1837 : 
Colebrooke, Essays,” i, 243. Most of the quotations 
given by Aiberuni are found only slightly diifering iu 
G audapi-ida, and some agree literally, as I shall point out 
in the notes to the single passages. Almost all the illus- 
trative tales mentioned by Aiberuni are found in Gaud a- 
pad a, being, as a rule, more extensive in Aiberuni than in 
GaudapMa, The latter seems to have taken his informa- 
tion from a work near akin to, or identical with, that 
S&titfikj/a book which was used by Aiberuni, 

According to Golebrooke (In the preface of the work 
just mentioned, on p. xiiL), Gaudapada was the teacher of 
Sainkara Acarya, who is said to have lived in the eighth 
Christian century. Of. also A. Weber, VarUmngm, pp. 
179. 254. and 260. Aiberuni does not mention Gaurlapada, 
as far as I can see. Or is he perhaps identical with Ganila 
the anchorite^ whom Aiberuni mentions even before Kapila? 
Of. the passage, i, 131-132: “Besides the Hindus have 
books, on the process of becoming God and seeking 
liberation from the world, as, e,g. the book composed by 
G an 1 la the anchorite, which goes by his name,’ 3 

Kapila, the father of the Saiiikhya philosophy, is men- 
tioned by Aiberuni also as the author of a book called 


*66 


A LB BRUNTS INDIA . 


NyaijahMshi, L- on the Veda and its interpretation, also 
showing that it lias been created, and distinguishing 
with] n the Veda between such injunctions as arc obliga- 
tory only in certain cases and those which are obligatory 
in ge n oral ” (L 132). Th 0 s u b j e ct of this boo k i s e v ide nt.ly 
not related to the Kvaya philosophy, but to the tenets 
of the Mimumsa philosophy, Le, the PfirvanjimaiiiEHj 
(Colebrooke T (i Essays," 1 p. 35 9-349; J. Davies, “Hindu 
Philosophy/ 1, p, 2 ; Thibaut, Arliumuhyntka^ Benares, 
1882), a system of rules which are applied to the text of 
the Veda and its sucrifical prescriptions, 

l 1 . 31. Tky aidkro^^orphic doctrines, the teachings of the 
Jabriyya sed y dte -. — The sect, called J&brivya, Jabariyya, 
and Mttjbara teaches that the actions of mao proceed 
from < ■ od. They are the followers of Al-najjar. Of Fihrid, 
p, l/g &cq. 

The Ahl-tdkuskbtit, or aafchro pomo r phi st.s, teach that Uod 
is similar to His creatures. Of. Hfoiio Quinta et $i\da d 
appewliv libri Memhif edit. Th, Sawn sen* Leipzig, [838. 
p. 362; Kit dii-i- Ya m in i of AM' tbi , 1. 1 ■ m 1 si a ted 1 jy J, Key - 
nolds. Eon don, 1858, preface, pp. xxv. xxix. ; “Book of 
Religions and Philosophical Sects," by Alshalirastiini, edited 
by Cure ton, pp. 59. 61, and 75 $cq. 

I understand the passage _.i JkC ( l£ ? n, 

t 2) as meaning the prohibition of the stud// {not discimian, as 
I have translated, which would be > of a subject. ix< 

a question of a religious bearing : but f am not aware what 
particular event the author hints at by these words. At 
the intolerant religious policy of the Khalil Alkadir ? 
K i n g M ah m u d was a gre at Ket zm 1 rich tei ■ . V rohn bl y a sto <1 t 
adherent of the theory of the harmony of throne and altar, 
which his contemporaries Al-Utbi (in his preface) and 
Alberuni (i.99) call l trim, lie tried to cover the illegitimate, 
revolutionary origin of Ins dynasty, which was still fresh 
in the memory of the men of the time ; ho maintained the 
most loyal relations with the spiritual head of Islam, the 
Khalif of Bagdad, Alkadir (ajt + 381-422), who had clad 
the usurpation of his family with the tn anile of legitimacy ; 
and in order to please him, he hunted down the heretics 
in his realm in Khurasan as in Multan (of Reynolds* L L, 
p. 438 impaling or stoning them. He tried to rid 


ANNOTATIONS. 


269 


the Khalif of the real or suspected votaries of his oppo- 
nent: the Anti-Khalit in Egypt, the famous Hakim, famous 
b j bis madness and by being considered by tile Drosses as 
the originator of their creed. The religious policy of Mah- 
mud may be retraced to the following principles: — 

( 1 .) Perfect toleration for the Hindus at his court and in 
his army. 

(z.J Persecution of certain Muslim sectarians in the 
interest of the Khalif, of the Karin alia ns and other sects 
of Shiitic tendencies. (Of. A * von Kremer, GescMchfe dev 
hersehendm Idem des Mam, Leipzig, 18 68, p. 1 27. j 

(3.) Predilection for a Muslim sectarian from Sijisf&n 
by the name of AbiVAbdill/ib I bn Alkirfim, by whose 
influence both Sunnites and Shiites had to suffer (cf. 
Ahdudrrosiih'tA, p. * How loug the influence of this man 
bad lasted, and bow far bis doctrines had been carried into 
practice, does not appeal- from AlsbabrastSmf a account. 
That, notwithstanding all this, there was a large margin 
for liberty of religious thought under the rule of Mabmfid 
and Ills immediate successor, is sufficiently illustrated by 
the tenor of Albertinas work. Altogether, it must be 
kept in mind that before Alglmzzfili the Muslim Church 
was not that concentrated organisation nor that all- over- 
whelming force which it has been ever since and keeps up 
in onr days. To those who only know the centuries of 
Muslim history after the establishment of the orthodox 
Church, it sounds next to incredible that the military chief 
of a Khalif should have been an infidel (a Zoroastrian ?). 
if. the story of AfsMn, the general of the Khalif Ah 11 if- 
t asi m „ i 1 1 M\ r n m tick dr i, J y oU e 1 V yurt n , pa r A . de | li I ■ e r&tei 1 1 . 
Kashmir ski, p T49- 

l\ 33. to XayMvtiv . — The word I'limiim which I have 
th n s re n d e 1 'e d, n 1 e an s 1 0 be l it h lm< N ot k 11 ow in g to w h at 
school of Greek philosophers the author refers, I can only 
gi v e th e ] l ot e of J lets k e, ft \ J*. 1 , Ph il osop b i q 11 i am n e s 

a mm as siunnl ct semel creatas et recon dit as in Adamo 
pul ant" {Frey tag, Lexicon Amhknm, s.b.v.). 

P. 33. PaUiU&pd, &c . — As Syrian scholars were the 
author’s teachers in Greek philosophy, lie knows the Greek 
word .^.AwreWjrjs only in its Syrian garb 


2 JO 


ALBERUNPS INDIA r 


The AJiDas sulfa were certain persons* poor refugees and 
houseless men, who during the first years of Mnhaiu triad’s 
stay in Medina passed the night in the suffit of the mosque 
of the Prophet in Medina, which was a covered place, an 
appurtenance of the mosque, roofed over with palm-sticks 
(Lime). 

Amdfaih Alhudi was a famous poet of the time. A 
native of Bust in Northern Afghanistan, he was in the 
service of the governor, who held the place under the 
Sfimlini dynasty, and after the conquest of Bust by Sabuk- 
tagin he entered the service of this prince and of his son 
Mahmud. Linder MasT'id he lived still in Ghaana, for 
Baibuki mentions that he had fallen into disgrace and. 
had to carry water for the royal stables. By the inter- 
vention of Baihaki, he was restored into the good graces 
of the prime minister, Ahmad Thu Hasan of Maim and. 
Cf r Elliot, 11 History of India/' ii. 82, 84, iv. 161 ; Ethd, 
RMagi's Vorlavfev und Zeitgenoasen. p. 55. According to 
Hfiji Khalifa (iii. 257, iv. 533), he died a.k. 430 (a.d. 1039). 
For further information see Shahrazfirij Nhizhat -alArwilk , 
fob 18 ih (MS. of the Royal Library, Berlin, MSS. Orient, 
oct av. 217); Al - Baiba kl , Ta Limma t- $ u w&n-a thikn 1 a f fol , 
22 h (MS. of the same library, Petermann, ii. 737) ; also 
Afirchfmdi If id or iu Qmmmdaruw.- Persic^ by V. Wilken, 
Berlin, 1832, p. 144. Towards the end of his life he is 
said to have travelled with an embassy of the Kliakuu ol : 
Transoxiana to that, country, and to have died there, 

P. 34. Oalmus.~The author quotes the following works 
of Galen ns 

( r,) Arjyos TTpCJ TptTTTt K 6 £. 

(2.) A commentary to the aphorisms of Hippo k rates, a 
bock of which I do not know the Greek original (ef r h 35, 

ii. 168), 

(30 ■ i^\JS (from the Syriac l^SotSo) — mpl trvrOi 

(Tew? if)i.Lpp-*:t-Ktov rrij ]- 1 Kara, roTrors, 

(4,) =thc bool- of thr- proof } of which T do not 

know' the Greek original ; cfA. 97. 

. ( 5 -) UV.R JJ ■ jirLl as (h h n loh an im w (rep l f t OQ v ?) , 0 f wh i ch 
the Greek original likewise is not known to me; c /1 i. 
123, 124. 


ANNOTATIONS. 


37 1 


(6.) U— ' H 1?U ™ irtpl irrrfcWeais (pappaxt^v j^ctra yivy. 

Besides, the author gives some quotations from Galenus 
without mentioning from what particular book they were 
taken; cf\ h 222 , 3 20, Of. on (lulen’s works in Arabic 
!)r„ Klamroth, “Journal oF the German Oriental Society,” 
vol. xli 189 uq. 

The passage here given is found in n/>uTpe7rrtK&? IttI 
ed. Abrah. W it let, Lugduni Eat., 1812, chap. ix. 
pp 29, 30 : — A? kixs twv avBpwxrm 1 too-; dpurrovs Ottas 

a£ut.\ Brjvcu Ti.jLifl s ; t rjjJX ^ TL Ka ^ ^prxp.ov tv tchs dyLotriv y 

Shtkov epp&ipav y fitearri Actum v 1 a. A An. ow ryv o.-tto Twt' 

Te^viSv eiJtpy certain , ’AcrjfA^irtifc ye rm K\ti At ovwo? ctV 
av^pfuiroi irparepoiv «orqv aV n/>X?J^ eT % rector \ 1 *ciovvto.l 

p^yfijratv, u per rv)v ZarpuK?p r , A S* ryv 7 rept rats 

fq.j , ,7reAoTL."ir Te^^j v efitfi&^r. 

The two passages on p. 36 are probably taken from the 
Protrepticus too,, With the former compare the words in 
chap. ix, (on p. 22 edit.10 Kiihn } yol. i.) : Et S' qvk iBikw 
Itiol TrtL&tttT&at, to i- yt Osh v uc ItecrOyr t t ? w ITif^iOv, 

Shortly afterward a follows the second quotation, verses 
quoted by Galen from Herodotus, i, 65 : 

fS A iJff rApy f , Iflhv -Tr^rt irim'a vydv, 

Al^y y ire fjehv pa VT G VtFQfML i y XvtfpttiTTOiy 

ilAA ! et r. tau. jutXXav Qthv eX-Tajiatj <4 Auieoepye. 

R 33. Plato . — The author quotes the following works 
of Plato : — 

(1.) Phwdo. 

(2.) Thnmts (cf. also Prodm). 

{3.) Leges, 

Of the three quotations on this passage, the middle one 
is found in 4 1 A : — s Eirel W irut-rcs' ft. r. A. ? 

A tyu 7Tp<j5 avravs <> to fit to ttolv ycvirpra-z rtt.Ot 4 Seal {hint' 

K. T. A., dddvaTQi pe V QVK £(TT€ OttS" ftAlTTOI TCJ wdiltTtLV ‘ 
out l jxh> Ojfji XoO-y'rarOt ye ov&i rcv^ai &t Oavdrov pjaipa$ f 
rys qrijs fiovky trews petforov ert Barf a qv koI Kvp Lwr^pov 
Xa^ovres eKeiVtor o?s qt eyiyvex^e fvvefi *kr#e. 

The first and third quotations are nut found in the Greek 
text, and Ed, Zeller, to whom I applied for help, thinks 
that both are taken from a commentary on Tint a- ax by 
some Christian author, ns t:jf, -Johannes Philoponns, the 
Former having being derived from 40D (wif A fie rwv *lXX*ttv 


-72 


ALBERUNFS INDIA, 


fkuiAovw v tiTTciv Kuti yvtavat yh't-ww k.t. A.)> th 6 latter 

from passage* 3 ike 3211 and 921;* 

The index of the works of Johannes Philopomis or Sclio- 
lastions (Stein schneider, A l-FtmM, p, 152 does not 
mention a commentary on Timtms, if it is nut- concealed 
under the title of 0110 of his books, jLajJL J-l ' .. j, i.t* on 

e&istivj; and per ishvn f j. As 1 1 0 was a literary opponent of 
Nestorins 1 he seems to have been a strict Monophysite ? 
w hie h would be in keeping- wi t h the third q no t a lion , ‘ ' ii od 
is in the single number/' A:c. Of. the note to pp. 56, 57* 

1\ 36+ Jolmmen Gmmmaticus (identical with J. Philo- 
pouus and Scholastics s) is five times quoted- There are 
three extracts from his Refidatio Prodi, and two more, the 
origin of which is not mentioned, but probably taken from 
the same book. The passage here mentioned is found in 
J 00: un i.y G ra ? am at w l Pin lopo v. I A Icxa m I rini m n Ira Ft 'oclu w 
f h M tin 1 1 1 ad cm i in t>\ 1 i hr i x v iiL , V on or i i s . J 5 5 1 n G iv ■ ek ai 1 d 
Latin, in the: [ 8th Aoyos, chap* ix, (there is no pagination; 
cf, the Latin t ran station, p. 95) : — 

pj Oc yap tifiertti ttw £KetvoL*s oLAA n n. 0dw it A ?) v tFjv 
puvofr.Fvwv wwf.i/t.T<vv Yji Atoii- f*; a frcAvji'^-j ku! tAv Ag^ttw,, 
WTrep mal f^XP 1 1J ^ T ' tw fiapfiaptov vvQ-kaufidvtiv Ttwi 
TrA^iarovs. uc rrepov 0£ <fnprLV etb eiVoxur nai roi v AAAw 
Qwiv ro.ir- tltrujjMTttiv eAA ?pas IA#r?rras> rii afrrii Kri set roue 
TTfywra. y Qp£$tra< u «.rx . 

I have not succeeded in identifying the other four 
q 11 otation s , i , 6 5 . 2 26 ? 3 3 1 , 2 84 . < 7/1 on this a n t li or. Ft hr id , 
p. 254, and Dr. Steinschn eider, pp, 152, 1 62* 

V. 37, Hit at. The form of the word IUj 'Syriac 
sh ows that l hi e A r ab ic Bi bl e -t e x t vv liicli A I be r nni n aed h ad 
been translated from Syriac. 

P. 39. J/ticl — Vide note to pp. 7 T ft* 

I\ 40. trfdl Cf. with these words the IlJuiyamd-Gifa 
(of J. Davies), xv. 14. 15:— 

4 c Entering into the earthy I sustain all things by my 
vital force , and becoming a savoury juice ? I nourish all 
herbs (v, T4). 

rt I become fi/rc. and enter into the bodies of all that 
breathe, A r o. A ml 1 aiu sealed in the, hearts of all : from 


ANN OTA T ION'S . 


*73 


Me come ivwuc’/fffr/fi, and the- power of reason/' 

&c. (v. 15). 

Davies supposes the whole of verse 1 5 to be an interpo- 
lation, but this remark must, as it seems* be- limited to the 
final sentence of verse 15 only, i.e, to the words ; d£ I form 
the Vedanta, and T am one who knows the \ edas.” 

V. 40. JfawUomm. — A Greek book of Apollonius of 
Ty arm of this title is not known to me, but it exists in 

Arabic Jid 1 j ( Liber tie Cnv.ds), in the library of 

Leyden, f. Wen rich, Ih Auctor-tnn (.Tnecorttm Vm-fioniitis 
tt Coto-nitottariis Syr kick, Arabia s>, dk, p< 239. 

Pp, 40-44* — The Saipkhya doctrine of the twenty-five 
tattoos is found in the commentary of Gam: l a pud a to the 
Sdxkkhya.Kfirikd of ti? arn Krishna, where also the saying 
of Vyasa (here i, 44 and [04) is found. Of. the translation 
of il . H« Wilson, p. 79, b 14. 

[\ 40. Buddha, rflutrmif; miiyht . — Tills note on the 
Buddhistic trinity probably rests on the authority of 
Zu rkiin, as he- was quoted in the book of Erdnsltuhri ; cf. 
note to pp. 6, 7. It shows that Alberuiii had no original 
information regarding Buddhism, anti it justifies his harsh 
judgment on the worth of the tradition of ZtrrkAu, v* i 7. 

The name JJu-ddhodnna is nothing, and by mistake 
derived from finddhodtma, the name of Buddha's father. 
Pe rh aps Z ■ r rk fin In id read not ^ -j' A 1 b 11 1 ^ * wh i cli 

would bo Sadddhuflani, i.e, Ike non of SvthlhQihtv.it or 
Buddha. 

P. 41. Vrty-u Fitr&iia , — Of the Pnm.nas the author had 
the Atliiya, Midsya, and Vdyn Fumyas, i. <\ only portions 
of them (i. 130}, and probably the whole of Visit rm- 
Fu t u n a. M os L 0 f h i s Pa 1 1 ran ic q 1 1 otat iocs are tak e t \ f r 0 n 1 
Vdyu t VUkmtt and Afafeya Ptminas. Of. on (lie Pur an as, 
A. Weber, Vorlmmym, p. 206, and note 206 on p. 208. 

I J . 42. — The fin: mothers are a blunder of the author's 
instead of the Jbr meets ares, i.e. panctimiV-i'&'fli (pttTtcatan- 
vi&frdiiiy 

The combination between the senses aud the elements, 
as it is given here and mi p, 43. also occurs in the Vieise- 

VOL. II, S 


-74 


ALBERUNFS INDIA - 


shil: a philosophy of Kanltda : cf. Colebrooke, “ Essays/’ i, 
293 seq. Compar e al so Vuh n u-1 V ? 'dim, i. 2 , p. 35 , and Halls 
note i F There are similar elements in the philosophy of 
the Bauddhas or Baugatas ; v. Colehr 00 he, Le. i. 416. 417, 

P. 42, — The quotation from Homer is not found in the 
Greek text, nor do I know the Greek original of the second 
verse. Were they taken from some Neo- Pythagorean 
book ? 


P. 43. Porphyry * — This is the only q notation from Por- 
phyry, from a book of his which is not extant in the Greek 
original* According to Wen rich, Le. p. 287, there has 
once been in Syriac a translation of the fourth book of a 
Liber Hisloriarum Pkiloxophormn ^ probably identical with 
the work here mentioned. The note on the Milky Way 
(i. 281) is perhaps taken from this same source* 

Pk 43. Lacuna.— In the Arabic text (f 15) is missing 
the relation between the hearing and the ait> the comple- 
ment to the words heariwj airy in 1 + 14, 

P, 43, Plato, — As the author does not mention the 
source whence ho took these words, I conjecture that they 
were derived from Timaim, JJ._ A, B, or from some commen- 
tary on this passage: cf. note to p. 35, 

P. 45. Metres sinijdiees, — Of, note to p* 42* On the 
Saitikhva theory regarding the union of sou] and matter, 
cf. S&ml-htfa KtiriLd, vt\ 20, 2i t 42, ami Gaudapada's 
Sft&shya. 

P. 47. Bancbfj-tfirt . — This example is likewise found in 
Gaudapada, p. 170 ( Bh&sktfa l.o v. 59 of the SamM-w 
Rtlrikii ) ; that of the blind and the lame on p. 76 (to 

P- 48* MAM. — Vide note to pp. 7, 8. 

lb 48. The bool: of Sdmkhya, — r riie theory of pre- 
dominance among the three primary forces (jgv.na)> i\ in 
Gaudapnda, pp. 92. 93. to r r 2;, p r 49 to n r 2 ; the core 


ANN OTA TIONS* 


275 


p arisen of the soul with a spectator on p + 72 to v, 19 (also 
Bkamvad-GUiL xiv. 23) ; the story of the innocent among 
the robbers on ]\ 74 to v. 20+ 

I\ 49. sattJ ijf in nmtUr, th \~ The soul compared to 
a charioteer, v. in Gandapftda. p. 66 to v. 17, 

Pp, 52-54, speaks to Ar jurat, &c, Of these 

quotations from Gild, compare the passage, Eternity is 
common to both of us, &e. T whilst they were concealed 
from y 0 n /’with JJhcufti rv. d- G if d, iv . 5 : ■■ Many have been in 
past time the births of me, and of thee also, Arjuna. All 
these I know, but thou km owes! them not, 0 slayer of foes ! >!- 

Of the other quotations on these two pages, I do not 
see how they could be compared with any passage in 
Bhugtt ra < l- GU& t except for the general tenor of the ideas. 
With the phrase, £< For he lores God and God loves him,” 
ef. Bhagavad- GUd t xii. 14-20, il Who worships me is dear 
to me/ 


l l * 3 . 54- Vishy. u -Bkarnia , — -Alberuni gives large quota- 
tions from this book. He speaks of it i. 132, and trans- 
lates the title as fhc religion of God . 

] do not know the Sanskrit original of the book, for it 
is totally different from the Vishnu - or Vishnn- 
SMr", or Vfn.shiia/m BJavrm a$d%tra t translated by J. Jolly 
(“The Institutes of Vishnu/’ Oxford, 18S0), a law-book in 
a hundred chapters, similar to those of Apastamba. Yfrjna- 
v a 1 ky ft , Vasi shth a , l he Griljy as ft t rft s , Ac. Our V'ish >t v. - 
.Dharmft, is a sort of Purn.iin, full of those legends and 
notions characteristic of the literature of Ikirilnas ; but 
the author does not assign it to them. Most of the ex^ 
tracts here given are conversations between the sage 
Mi'r.rkaijdeya and Yajra, others a conversation between the 
king f J ari ksh a an d the sage Sat u 1 1 j k a . r J 1 h e extra cts treat 
of mythological subjects (h 54); the twelve sums(i. 216, 
217) ; the pole (i. 241) ; the planets and fixed stars (i. 287, 
288); star-legends (i. 291): the story of Hiranyakska (iL 

1 40) ; the names of the Man vim Laras (i, 387); the domi- 
nants of the planets (ii. 7 2t)l in particular, of chrono- 
logical and astronomical subjects. The author has taken 
several series of names from the l r idnytt -Dharm a . He 




A LEER U NFS INDIA. 


seem?? to quote it sometimes without mentioning Its title. 
So, e.g. 1 am inclined to attribute the traditions of Samiaka 
(i. 113. 126) to this book. The quotation (iL 398) on 
\ 7 i.su dev a, Samkarshana, Prudyurana, and Aniimldha, as 
the names of Hari in the four Yn.ga$, i?- found likewise 
among the doctrines of the Y aishnav a sect, the PMcara- 
t ras, or Bhagnyatas : ef + Colebrooke, 41 Essays,” i. 439, 440. 
Vishnu is the chief god of those Hindus with whom 
Alberuni held relation. Were they \ aLshpava sects, anti 
was the Vishnu-IIhurMa a special code of theirs? O11 
the heterodox sect of Vishnu - or Yasndeva worshippers 
just mentioned, if. Colebrooke, Lc. pp. 437-443* 

Colebrooke mentions a book, Vishnu - Bk antbottara- 
Ihirdrgij which is said to have comprehended the Brahma- 
slddhanta of Brahmagupta; of. " Essays/ ? iL 348. This 
work is perhaps identical with the Yuh u v. -Bhanna- used 
by AlbemnL As lie had a copy of the Brah ma&idtlh&tii a , 
lie had it perhaps as a portion of this, larger work. 

P. 54. Lakskmt, who -produced the Avirita . — For the 
legend of Lakshmi v. Viskmt-Ihtr&yju i. 9, where it is 
I Hi an v an ta i l i w ho brin gs the Amrit a - e u p d r j ot Lakel rm i K 
Apparently this goddess is meant here, and not L&ksbnmna, 
as the manuscript has it, the brother of Kama. When 
A 1 be 1 uni wrote this, he seems to have mistaken La k slim 1 
for a masculine being, or else we must write ^ in the 
text “ V ? 3, instead of 

The Arabic haw fa ( = ai$/mce t f Si cite) is an attempt of 
A Ibe run Ps to tr a t;l s] ate tl t e Sai 1 sk r it a mj "it o — a s 1 j br n si a r 
which scarcely any one of his readers will have understood. 
Of. the Arabic text, r* 1 , 6 (here I, 253). 


I f , 54- Dtikska, who wtm tartan by Moh&deta. — Of. the 
story of the destruction of Dak sha/s sacrifice by order of 
3 iva, as communicated by Hall in liis edition of Wilson's 
VUh yn-lftrfiya as appendix to i. viiL p. 120 seg. (Sacrifice 
of Daksha r from the Vityti-Furdoa). 

P. S 4. Ya nth a a 1 iMrt t\ — Of this an tl j or At be r u u i t f n ot es 
the following works ; — 

( r . ) LU r iha. tmi ) h HA . 

(2.) BHhajjdlal'am, i. 158, 219, 220, 11. 1 18, 


ANNOTATIONS , 


277 


( 3 } » L< igk v,jdlfi.b * t tK i, \ 5 8, 

(4-) 1, 153, ii. Jt iyo. 

Books of the same author, which Alberimi mentions 
without giving extracts from them, are ShatpoucdiiM and 

z-" K '' (0? both with astrological contents (i. 158). 

Perhaps the two books called Yogiujatrd and Tikani [Yy 
Iff Uni (i. 1 gS) are also to be attributed to Vamhamihira, 
Besides there are mentioned several commentaries, one of 
the BnhfU-SaiiiMtd by Utpala, from Kashmir (i. 298), 
and one of the Briktf/jjdtakam by J lalabhadra, 

One of the sources whence Alberum has drawn most 
copiously is the BriTtiti-S&ti ikiM, or, as he calls it, the 
Sat i {.hit r i : r. the edition of the Sanskrit original by Dr, 
Kern, Calcutta. 1865, and his translation in the £i Journal 
of the Royal Asiatic Society ^ for the years 1870, 1871, 
1873. 1875, Aiberuni prai se s Vara h am i hi 1 'a a s ai 1 h on e st 
man of science (i. 3 66), and maintains that he lived 526 
years before his own time, which is A Ah 1030. Accord- 
ingly, the date of YarSifcatnihira would be A.D. 504. (Jf. 
ii. 86. 

In the preface to the edition, p* 61 , Kern mentions the 
SknfpnheMihX and the Vot/eigdiru. Both the 
kif.fi and Laffhujdf.ftbi m- had been translated into Arabic 
by Aiberuni. 

* The passage here (p. 54) quoted is found in chap, iii. 
iK 1315 ( T Journal of the Rdyal Asiatic Society A’ 1870, 

]>. 44 * 3 )- 

F- S4- M'dni- — Vide note to pp* 7, 8. 

F. 55. PidatijalL — Vide note to p. 37. 

Pp. 56, 57. UJtfrJi ). — r n j e t wo quotations £ ro 1 n rhm hj a re 
the following : — 

7OU. ^aXiU.'n fih* 0 r 1 1 tirri Atiyw* t ft?’ ws uYrlj- 

Cl'thl'fit Bfi f, JvHfji/C 1'l.f.l, CKCt.j suit 7 T(iAiL r yC (JL ifHf dr.jtt.ti t , f>V\ t T\tl Kill 

yt.yvtiVTu.L a* rcui? Tt&vtwTt'U^ nal cl tqv 6* mm £\€t 7 Traku- 
yiyy&j&at. ck n-n dwoBavovTiisv Toes a k A<> rt y sit v *1 1 > 

iii lffJAot' CfCeF, K.T.k. 

1 ip* oijTcucri yiyverat wdvra^ ova akkoOtv y £k rcav ipav~ 
TLitiV Tr'j. fVaLiT LtJ^ K,T\ A + 

The sentences which in the Arabic follow utter these 


A LB RR UN PS INDIA, 


278 

w oid s (- 0 1 1 r so ids 1 0 ad a 11 e xi sfceuee of tli 1 l i r o w n . 1 ' ) 
cannot bo combined with the G reek text., and I suppose 
they were taken from some commentary. 

The second quotation h found 

721*1 ■ or* rjjilv q culic tiAAo Ti jj rlvffytnjtrts Tuy^xra 

0 turn-, Kal k\Ltu. ry-iJTue cGayroj Tron >)/xas A irporkpip rtvl XP® Vi i l 
p.ymMrjhdyai *1 i'vv u wjti ft. wjvx. ufiQtx.* rovTO 6k dSv\-aroi^ A. p,y 
yv TTtJli Vj/tror q i/'ir^ T tt/mt er riiiSe rw fi'vfewiVfji d'Ser. emu 

k.t. A. 

731), ohrOu, Srt o l iputj-ralj vruy tSftwt Ar/>ixt' >) rjuLUTtoy 

tj '£AAo tc.j ols t« TTrtiSi 1 , ku r.c it wi ■ ffutk irficr^ouy^ Tuvro, 

eyi'foWr tstt)^ A1751.tr «a i 4v ry SkavoUt I A afjov r b ASirs, roe irat&JS'j 
08 vj Aupot ; Ttfirro Sk tarty dvdp.vyjai's. 

In some sentences the Arabic and Greek texts agree 
literally ; in others they differ to such an extent that this 
extract, too, does not seem to be taken from a si in pie I ran il- 
lation of the text of Fhr.rdo, but rather from a work in 
which text and commentary were mixed together, and the 
original form of a dialogue was changed into that of a 
simple relation, Albemni erroneously held this to be the 
original form of the book. We have arrived at a similar 
result in the case of Plato's Tima; us, 

Pronins has composed a commentary on the saying of 
Plato that the soul is immortal, in three sections : v. Wen- 
r i cl j « Jk. Audi > } "ft it t G t v mo ni> a Vt tAo & c. . p, 2 8 S ; a tid 

Zeller, Phidmphk dm' Grhiduqi. iib 6, 780, 1. This was 
probably an Arabic edition- of Pkmdo, and possibly that 
one which Albemni used. Of, note to p. 35, 

The quotations from Flu&do given farther on (pp. 65-67) 
agree more accurately with the Greek original, hut, in 
them, too, the dialogic tic form lias disappeared. 


P. 57- Prod us is twice quoted, lie re and i, 86 , Both 
extracts seem to be derived from some commentary on 
Timru# } which was diff&nni from that commentary known 
i n 0 u r t i in e and edi ted by Schneider, B red au , 1 S 8 7 „ Th a 
words here mentioned probably refer to Timwu$ t 44 a b c:— 

mil St A '6q rdvra Trdvra ru rraSyfiarn vvv k n.r' dp-^U re rirrn.'? 
foxv 7 lyvzTrL r. to Tr/jtoror, St<±v As awp.a kv&Afoj bvwrhv k.tX, 
^«t>A^v Tov [iU)v Sw-TTUp£V0A'S {VjVJ f, drekqs Jkal fhAqras £ts Aifjcii 
Trdkt.y tpx*T f-U. 

The commentary of i’rocliis referring Lo these words 


A N NOT A TlONS. 279 

(pp. 842, 843, ed. Schneider) is entirely different from fche 
Arabic words* 

The other quotation (i. 86 J is derived from the same 
book, and refers to Tim fats, 440 ; *r<fxj,ipoti§h irwfia 

ti/fi&ijrmj 1 , to ?irt> o KtcjjaXyv cooper, 0 ^kmraTo* 1 r ? eurt 

jhu rJli.- ti r 'ijjLti-' TrdvTbiv Qe&iroTovi^ k.t.X. 

1.1 jo corn n tentary of Prooiin s (ed. Schneider) breaks off a 
little before this passage, at the beginning of 44 tk 

T am inclined to believe that the work, simply intro- 
duced by ' L Prod its says/' is identical with that one which 
he calls Timarns (cf. note to page 35), a work which was — 
(1,) Sot a simple translation of the book, but a transla- 
tion and a commentary together, the one running into the 
other ; and which 

(2,) Wag different from the now extant commentary of 
T-hn ft . hk by Proclus, Therefore Prod ns must either have 
n 1 ad e two e d i ti on s 0 f Tw ? wus > 0 r ho i s n ot real 1 y the author 
of the book used by Alberunh In the one place the name 

is written in the other 


P. 37. — The smt (_y,*j') and the throne ( .^jT) of God. 

By these two words Mu bam mad calls the throne of God 
in the Koran. Allah's sitting on his throne, as mentioned 
in the Koran, has been a subject of deep speculation among 
Muslim theologians. Cj\ Znr Ge&chicktc Ahullutztm Al- 
APaH’s, von \Y, Spitta, Leipzig, 1876, pp + 106, 107, and 
the note on p, 144, 

IK 60* Vwknv-Purtitja. — The passage is found in Book 
II. chap* vi. (Wilson-Hallj ii. p* 216). The order in 
which the hells are enumerated and their names differ to 
some extent : — 


A li&Tuni. 

Raurava. 

Rodha. 

T&ptakmnbha. 

Mafa&jviUa, 

5. Havala. 
Krirni.H-a, 
Lalribhafesha. 
Yfii&saiia. 
Adhoiuukha. 
jo. ltudbirAnrffiiJu 


San*$ftU vrtfjinaL 

Raurava* 

Rod ha. 

Sitkara. 

Tala, 

5 - TaptakHuibhii. 
Tapt.ak>ba. 
Mali Aj v&la* 
Lavana. 
Vimoka* 

10, Krirrjihhakstifi* 


2 SO 


ALBERUNTS INDIA. 


Stt n&fa't t or if ft mr/ r 

Jvj'hjtiKiL 
LnlfUthaksInii. 

Yedbaka. 

Vi&j&iEiEft' 
i .v Adkonmkha. 

Pit v avah ei. 
itudbirindha. 

VAitaraoiL 
KriisLiija, 

20. AsipEU-r&vana, 

ValiJii jjv&la. 
y an darfirfa . 

Hvabbojana. 

{ \ 6 2 h S4 i if /Jiff a . — I do i io t li i id a nythi ng cor re spon d in g 
in the A'PriM nor (Pruidapadas commentary. 

A s f o r ll i e i de a, r/. ’ ' H n i iii kh y a A pi i or hms.” i\\ 32. 

P. 63. . I tivdhilca. — -On the diivdh iba = that which is 
swifter than the wind in passing from body to body, ef. 
Sd 1 j 1 /Ayr r Kt f r ikt l A ed , C 0 ] el > 1 'ooke-W i.l sot i , p . 133. 

The //rf?'^A.vv is mentioned in the Koran, 23, 102 ; 25. 
55; 55, 20. 

P, 63. i"esA^ 7 fi’/ 3 arrij;en- 'J ’ll is quotation is related in 
substance to Book 1 1 , chap, vi, pp. 221-224 : ^ 7 - the unin- 
te m 1 p ted th i 1 1 kin g t i t. %ma my a) w 1 th tl 1 e 7 v = m e mb ra net: 
of Hari , Are the words of 

Alberiini an extract from this passage? 

I 3 . 64 . Sd 1 1 1 khtft u - Tli e S. Kb 1 ■ i kd ai id G an d a} ) A d a d o 
not seem to offer anything analogous to this passage, 

P. 64, A Iheosopht A‘c . — The passage relating to the 
four degrees or metempsychosis has been translated into 
Persian by Abuliiotwili Muhammad I bn * LTbaid-Alhih in 
h is B ayd v ai-m hai u : t\ C. Sch e ft ; r , Ok 1 rd o m at h i\ Pcrstt n ■* ■■ , 
i. ‘Pa, b 3-8, 

Ab’d-Yakub and la is work are not known to me from 
other sources. 

P. 65. Johanna* (h umwia-ticus.— Vi d e note to p< 36, 

Pkitdo . — The quotations 011 pp. 65-67 agree pretty 
accurately with the Greek text. 


*4 /hutriirti. 

Hi id] lira. 

Valtftrami. 

Kyisluja, 

A&Ipatravaiui, 

VahnijTrfiila. 

Saodamsaka. 


ANNOTATIONS. 


381 


The both/ 4 s earthy f tfe. St c, d: - 

0€ ye, fi) </>t Ae, to l to oifcr&u iitVttt kc/.i ySa/jr Ktu 
yeiuSey Kal apart* v ' a Kdt e^uum* ij rota^nj V'i'X 1 } fiapav^rat re 
rcat eArrcrat irdAii' et£ Tor dpaToy tuttoi/ rc ™ aet^ooy re kcu 

"Ai^OUj tdl TTTCf) X&ytTAUj TfEpt Ta pnjjuiTtt Tg (K'-iJ.! TO tt£ TOLUOL'S 

K^AirOof.'pil "ijf, Tfepi « 6lJ KCti fltTTU tTKIOcSij f/jo l-'TOtr- 

paTft, IlUA TTHip^Ol'TWA- ir.r TOta LJTfU ^U^crl et&OjAa at p?jf KflC^npWS 
diraAufltwrat, rtAAd k a r, too optroii p^re^oucrat, i.Uo if at cipcurrat, 

it appears that time arc not the sov.is, &c., Sid- 

S2A : — 

f'jtrfoy p£VTOt t oj Kajh}\ ' X*u ui 1 xt ye Tag Tio c r ayafitay ravTag 
e*W, a AAA ray Ton - 1 tfn&vhjaVj <h fi-gpt rw rotaOra avayKa^ovxat 
irArilW^iir fS/tfljr TiVoutTaU Tf"}* TTpOTtpi.Oh TpO^rjs JiulK'ip- CliVl/y " 
mu ye To i'Aoo TrAai'i^j-’rai, etuy at' r>y ^vveiraKokQV&OVPTQf 

rod trupiTuEJcSuus gVi.f^u j a^ ; i. irdAtp cisScdtoirty fts era^ta, 

11 ft t'rtu 1. ■ iTtu iirtT^rep tii'.foy, etg rcuaura oirot* ay Kat 

fiifteXenqKvitu tv^wtiv l\- r<a fim r Td irola &) raira AeyeiSj 
Jk ^.Vjj^parey j; Qiov to Ay pkv y a (r t p vj .t at p y Ut ? re k a t d/^petg if at 
^tAoJrocrtay pepe AerptfOTay wad pi) Sm ii Aijc papA ro us tty r« rtur 
dVuw yih'-Fji Kat TtSy roioiV-tuy 6 1 rj piA i ■ clkiV? tirdiW^W ■ ■) ovk otVt ■ 
jtAi-i' pir oTr eakos Aeyetg. Tors ng ye c/Swaas re Kat Titpayidday 
Kat ap 7 ray ay TTporgrt^jK dira y tty rd tCwv hvKinv re mu hpaxwv xai 
l&rltw yh-np 

If I did 7 mt think that J am t joint/, t tr., 63 B : 

tt y.riji i.’jyn y r ly^eti . 1 Ty&wroy ,agr Trap* tfeevs tiAAot*y (ro^ovs 

T£ Kati dyuHoi's, i:—€LT>'f h-ai Trit/i" ttK^prijTraiiy Ttr^AenT^KOTay 

ftpEtftJI f 7 l'ir £ l,'//Al^g f ryOiKiOT it V OUK !?yfJ J'rtKTH'JV T1.1 (/afftTfiJ, 


I 1 . 66. When a mart dies t a daimon, die. , lo/if, 1 o8u ; — 

AcycTut <k ouna?, tag dp a Tf Aeurtjcraira etcaiTTOp Ah tK^rrou 
diAtyiMiJT, otr-irep ^jn r ra etAiJ^t, o^roy dytti' e7rt^€ip€t tty Si-J ruai 


A LEBRUN PS INDIA + 


thitoFj rx i to 1 •> 0 1 'X Xty c 1 ■ ja s a tu oa x curing e ia » t \ e is - A i So y 
TropeiW&u peri ^yepoyos ex civ ou, ai 6?) srpWTtTaKTflu rot 1 ? 
ey^eitSe tfccurc Trope Circa, 3 1 ext a, cFjv Set ru^eti^ «a.i 

ptimitTas oy xpj) ^jm-'ur, AAAos Sevpo irdAtv ^yep&jit Kopijei ev 
“oAA «i? x/mWu icat ptftfputs irepioflots. &rrt St apa >; Trope ta 
oyj( ws 6 Altr^ykov T-gAtt/toy Alyer A-tyty p k v yap uirAiji' oIjjlqv 

i^-jjr.r r. L r ets AtSoy ^tpt iv, y 6Vite ft— At; or re p.ra ^atWrat pot 
e fr'ct l. caiSe yip r!tv Cyytpo y<u r eStt f ov yap ttov rts ar S^papTot 
tH'Srtpsocre pms 0S0O oixnjs- l yi' St v^«rets St kh ?. irtptiJSoi 1 * 

irnAAas s^eiv v.iru Taiv otriW re x 1 1 c. vQfUfMap rtuv ev&aoe 
T£Kpj.Ufy/>p.£vvs Aeyw, r } per mtrpa re k«a ^poyspos iCi'x?/ fareTOL* 
re Kill qvk ayvott. tA grapovra' ij S' eirt^itptfTtKWS to l? err 6 par 05 
i^putra, uVe/) et- r rep epir/HJtrftey eow,, Trept exeifo jroArv ^po ro i- 
fnrmjjJtcinjf mil wtpi rov Apart) 1/ rcAror ttoAAA arriretyatrrj, kcu 
TroAAa Tca&ova'a fiin mai ji6yi§ uttA toij tt po cr-r t r <x y p t v 0 v ftupova? 
a^eTac ayopenp ct-fiW ope i 1 vi l- 1 Sc oOt-cp (A aXX ai t rljv pci' dti or 

OtiftTQP KUt Tf. TTtTTOirfKViaV TOLOVTOV 1 v) iftOV CU|T d&ltUtiV TrJppevlJF Tj 

aAA f arm Tutoumi €tpyaa-p,enp t a tootwv ■aSeA^ft Tt xai a&Af^y 
t/'T-'^cu t- 1 e'/tyt T(.*yxrtWt oi-'tij., Tfti'TrfV' peit am?,? t^eAyer re r-rtc, 
i'irexTpeTreTat xai oure ^iiL-'epirr)ptJ5 ttyre ^yepw eS'eAt r, yty^arSfttj 
aiVi) Se rrAa^artit A- gratry e^- 1 ytl 1 7 ; drop/fp ecu^ av S?j Ttve? 
Xpavoi yevwvrw^ Jjr iXddvrm 1 \xr* dmyKip tfreptrtit. ds rt;y avtfi 
wptiTQvaav (An 'tftn.y y St m$ap (us re Kal perp tru^ to it /i to y 
Sie£eX#owa xuJ ^y^tpTrtJpcuv xrit pyepm-'tpH-' (hu>v tvxwit^. ipmfpnv 
roL.' avr-fj etratm; tottov rpocnjxotTft, 

37 iose tt/ the dead who led a middle sort of life. t.£r HJ and 
Those who repented of thdr sins r cP-y, , 1 13D-1 14c : — 

itai ijl. ply re 1 ■ Sj^fucrr. peertus /je/J).ruxe[-uiD, jropei. 1 0e i'T e> _ cttl rot 1 
’Ayyjorrpy l? « Si) uurots Sx>;parr.t eVrti/, e~ f. to l't w y 

ctr)ttXyovFTai cd? rt;v Atpyjpy k<A Ik A. oikqwfl re xat Ka^atpSperot 
t(ue h re aS:x^prir<yy Oi.Soi'Tes Stxa? airoAuDl'Tai, ti' riV Tt pStV^neiy 
Tfljc re eAepyecritlv Ttpi? ^epovTat tcaTa ryv of eh 1/ excttTTOc, oi' 
5 3 SrS^wey aiaarws ex eAV ri peyl^r; twf ttpaprr;pu™v s 
AtpcuTyAiU'i -itAAiv xui peyrLW >J </ri>yoj.i^ ciSrxoi.'s Ktti irapMi-opciv? 


ANNOTATIONS. 


■2S3 

ttoAAous t^rtpywjfi.ivat {j a A Act ocnx *rotavTn, avrri, 

TmVoi"? Se fj jrjUDcrrjKouira poDpa pHrret tis rur Tuprctpor, rlfor 

rjpJrort f>r’ cT a v tcirr/.pjr. pfiyuAu fli: 

■iflUt.pTtjh'CViL}. ifjl.tapT'jJplTiJ.., (jfiW ITp&S TTttTlEpJ, fi p^TEpH i'TT'' tJpyjJS 

jtitanJjy i"t TrpJ^i/.i.'-rtsij ^ai p crape A a v a. u rots roi' ciAAov /jAW 
/itrijcrip, *j ai^po tjtovm to tm'rTUf th-v, f'AA^ TpoTnp yer witch, toiou- 

TOL 1 ? f>£ EpirfCTELI/ WEV (Et? Tt'fV TupTOpQff U my K1J , EpTre^Ot-TUS 5e 

auTors Koi h'tai'rftp wet yE^opiyous in/ 3 d Wei to nv(m t tqvs 
fitv &l?&i)Q<fjOvavs Kara rhv Kcokutw, rows 5c irarpaAoias keu 
pp Tjtw.Xu (a$ KfATrt riv Ifiym/iAcyt C^cjJ'Tcjl , hretSdv <>: *f>tpitp£vot 
y£l'0)\'TiU Kit. ThA r tf A Ljue. L r l y f Tips ’A^pOVETtuSfti ED'Tttufta /jfji'ir.ri 
re Krjf. waAowtKj ot pAv 01 >$ rhr Ik remii 1 , 0? »Bs v/iptrrai',. 
KuActravrcs S’ 1 AKETewQuirt Ktu SerfiraA cajcrat cri^us * k fi'tj vat d<i 
TrjY A ij.i. V}} V KOM 5 SAT do. i , Kiil lav jJL£ V TTf (V (tXTi 1\ tYOVtTl T£ 

ft at Aijyawrt rwv KctKtuV^ et tie pip <£ipovmft eas tuv 

Tuprupav ft a t ercEtfcW tt it At r tts tot$ ttot a^tuvs, kgu tuvtu 
unforffiVTiti ov irpot^pw ttmioFrat, tt ptv a v Trcurwcrty avs ijStK»j<rwif 
\u'Tii yAp 'tf &Ikv v- 7 To r f u v 6uhivrrrrijr avTuts irdythp oi tie 0^ "w 

5 A ^ WIP’D dw.tfrtpOVTW'i Trpos TO OUtWj /dliWVtti, OOTOC £HTAV Of. TtiJJ-'dc 

pi 3’ 1 rnif- TOTTiup' ran* A- r^ y ■; eAo' Ozpo J'pero t re m^. (hra. A A fir - 
T(jp.£TOt twjTrep 5etrpcr.mjppArjiVj fItcu 0 £ «p’s’ tt^v rcaOapav wKrpriV 

ihjjiKi'uvp.zvm A.:^.r swi. rt/h yr/v oih-tfope^i. 


P. 68. Ipwra-ru:^ twimdedtje, — tJ6 #SV^/^A//a K<rrikd t 
v, 44, <f Py knowledge is deliverance j by the reverse, 
bondage / ? 


V. 69, 77 i'.c"^ eight thintfii &t\ — Of. the Coimnentary of 
irlbojartlju to “The Yoga Apliorisms of PatanjaliT &c*, r. 
xlv.. also GaiEclapfida's Mhd$hy*j. to the SdnJchf/d KdriM, 
v. xxiii. (pp. 83. S4), where he quotes the work of Pa tan - 
jali (Pdiaujaltt)* 


P + 69. Pwwinif through $$vev&l sUo/cs. — Of. with these 
four stages of knowledge the “ sevm fontfs qf enl-if/htenment ,f 
in “The Yoga Aphorisms," ii. i\ xxvii., and Commentary. 


284 


ALBERUNPS INDIA , 


The fourt.h stage of Albernnis Fata n jail corresponds to the 
seventh kind of Bhojadeva, 


1 '. 70. In the book Gita.- There is no passage like this 
in the Eh at/i t mt ( - 0 U d, T he w 0 rds . ■ 1 pi ea s u res w hi di i n 
reality are pains " (p. 71, 6), may be compared with 
BJunffavad-OUdf v. 22 : r * Tor the pleasures that are born 
of (these) contacts arc the wombs of pain / ' 

A similar sentence recurs, in another quotation from 
(Hid here on p + 78, 3 . pen: ” Pleasures of a kind which, in 
reality, are disguised pains/* 


P. 71, Socrates* — Tin- following quotation is composed 
of the two passages, Ekmdo, 65 ii-0 and 67 A : — 
nn. 1 v filv y «/j /* rr £t tov t rojynu to s' * ttj \ e : 1 ./> jy Tf. f r k ott£ m ■ „ rSij A <j j ■ 

ort Tore efiairfliTfiTtu vsr 1 utVoP. *AAi?ft} Alycts, ’ A p 0 ? v qi'k 
eh- t i.u A -Li yi(tr.rOa 1 , ttWq? :rmj aAAa(?t, kut'X&jAqv air.y yiyrcTui 
tl tow &vtwv : xSai . Xayiferat. Sir ye Trot' Tore k« A A wr ra t 6 t<xv 
pjpcr TOwTw rjwTijr 7 npj^Ai' 7 r;y ? /wjre uku'j) y^ryTe /xjyTt 

clAyty^tW /wj-rc tc-s ^80 inj, J,AA' n rt jAiiJUfirrri i f -/rty rd'Tjyr 

ytyVijrat euSera to trwyutct, kgu vtt&* oaw SvvfiTtu y Ty 

KOLiwpcnJicra riir^j yinjo 1 urr ua a dyieytyrat to l* oi'to^, Ear* 
TtiSra, O'ukoOp teal ii/ravflri. >y tnu </»tAo(TOr^or ^y^y ymAtrrm 
To crcuprA m.u f/xiyex 1 -'-tt' m*ral\ £t/t« S« arrif KtiO' 
fxt Tty v ytyvecr^ai. 

67 A „ — Ktti. civ iyi a*v (tjyxo^ ourttis, ws fotKfv, iyyvtdrtja hxofj-eOa 
tov sidh'di,) £olv a rt. yoxArtjTHX yr.vyoh' oy.tx A umac v Tfu anujuaTt yxiySe 

KQLVWVWfA£V f 0 TL f.Uf TTWTiL I? L ' ily h~tj ? j.Uftd d. VO.— t-jJ. T 7 A G) /X € Ba T ty* 

TOTTou ^viretjos, / A A..-: r /.n- ' o.otov, cms aiv rj ifiAAiv 

[> i.'Tos ttTToAixny ^yxa? a k«x oihraj gev tiaBapoi o r Tr<£ A Afy.rro/x^ro <• 
T^v Trjjj HJtiyjiriTo^ <x(fpocnjrtys, yxeTu todovtwv Te egrfjieflrt ktjlc 
yiTijrrrjyjLiFiVa flj* rxJ i v trd.V TO etAtKpiVe? . TOVTO U tVrrv WTWS TO 
ixAryt^s. 


The words j^ ¥l| jjjy*. (Tt i 8) are barbaric 

Arabic = tots c^vaTarat rn-’ cxiVor. Probably the Syriac 
translation had a passive word with ^qIo = ^ uh-ov, and 
this was literally rendered in Arabic by The reading 

of the A IS. cannot be accounted for in any way. 


ANNOTATIONS , 2S5 

P* 7 I, Front the booh Gild. — -The text is not found in the 

P. 72. K(qnif.t 7 for ho was bom knowing. — (Jj\ Colebrocke, 
il Essays,” i. 242, 

lh 72. Cupidity y wrath 1 and ignorance } — u The Yoga 
Aphorisms/' ii. 3 me 11 lion Jive afflietio ms: ignorance, 
egoism, desire, aversion, ami ardent attachment to life. 
Perhaps we may also compare titbit h hya KarifoX, r* Ixiii.. 
w ] j e re seve n it 1 od e s are e n uni crated I jy tv h ick n at 1 1 re bi s 1 d s 
herself : virtue, dispassionate ness, power, vice, ignorance, 
passion, and weakness- 

P, 73.- -The three primary forces are rajas, lamas 7 sa-itra* 

P. 73. To stop all w of. ions, and even the breathing : — Qf. 
on the doppm of motion and Uie expulsion and retention 
of breath, “ Yoga Aphorisms of Patafijali/’ i. xxxiv,, and 
the notes of PAjendraliWi Mltra, 

J\ 73* In ike hook G'lf/L- The two quotations as given 
here are not, found in the Jd)<o/avad-(htf,d. Only the com- 
parison with the lamp occurs in vb 19: u As a lamp 
sheltered from the wind does not flicker;" this is 
the wonted simile of the Yogi n who is subdued in 
thought/ 5 &c. 

Also the comparison with the waters of the rivers not 
increasing the ocean is found ii. 70: Si IIe attains to 
peace into whom all desires enter a> rivers enter into the 
ocean, which is ever filled, and (yet) remains within its 
bounds,” ii r .c. 

]\ 74. Thefollomng nine voles . — Five of these com man d- 
meuts are mentioned in “The Yoga Aphorisms/ 1 ii. ssx lf 
and the other four seem to be identical with the live' 
obligations mentioned in ii. xxxh. 

P. 75, — Pythfffpraei.- I do not know the Greek original 
of this saying. The idea of the body being a fetter to the 
soid is frequently met wit Is in the book of the Neopyfha- 
gorean philosophers, as A poll on ins of Tyana and others; 


226 


ALBERUNFS INDIA < 


rf. Zeller, Philosophic der Gricehcn, m. 2, p. 156. For two 
more sentences of Pythagoras, r. i, p. 85. who to Alberuni 
states that he has taken them from Aminonius, r, note to 
P* S5, 

P* 75, The bool Sd mhkyrt sayx< — It is difficult to say 
whether the Arabic manuscript has AA or and not 

knowing a Sanskrit parallel to I his saying, I am thrown 
1 1 p 0 n coi 1 j e ct 1 l re . I N re farm \g the 1 at ter re ad i ng, I trans- 
late : "Everything which man opines (i.e. on which he 
forms an opinion) is a terminus to him, for he does not go 
beyond it, 5f which may mean that as long as the thinking 
faculty of soul lias not ceased, it is not liberated, has 
not attained molrsha. Of, 80 m hhya Kdrihd, v. Ixviii. : 
^ When separation of the informed soul from its corpo- 
real frame at length takes place, and nature in respect 
of it ceases, then is absolute and final deliverance accom- 
plished/'’ 

Fp. 75, 76. GUtu The three quotations from this book 
are not found in the Bkoffavad-Gttti. 

P, 76- Socrfdsst * — The quotations given here are found 
in Plmdo, 84E-S5B: — 

Mis' ZtttXG) rail-' tcrh-vm' BoKf7> Vfdv CM'flti rvjv 

imvriK^Vj 01 *Ve tSotr aifrOwvTfxi oti r^t arroi’v ftfiopT*! 

Kal lv np TTpotrOiv % pov ( g f rdre di, 1 77 A. t lit to:. Hat j . w . kixrra adoiicr^ 
yeyrt& dre? on jtwAAortr 1 frapd rur Odw dir term Qvnp du rl BzfnL 

jronres, jc ,t . A* «AA’ are, olym, rov AttoAAwqs oires jutarrufot 



€ K€ ilOJV TJp' r t ][ dpr£V } } fV TfM tfl . TTpntr&tV jyjrJtMp. ( i* 

Hi mu arr&s yy ovjt.it. r. r^jtofioi'Aos T£ dyai rrur xlm -wr k*u f tpty$ 
to? axnw BtoVj kili or y* t.pov ^eiWr ttju jKtPTtKiJr 
irrjcpri 7ft? ^ramruv, ouSI Hvtr & vji&rtpQv avrdiv to \- ftlov asrrtA- 
AaTTfNT^at, 

I11 the middle a passage has been left out by Alberti m, 
or by the author of that edition of Phmdo which he used. 


P. 76. In the booh of Patu fijalL — To the explanation of 


ANNOTATIONS, 287 

the tour parts ol the path of liberation on pp. 76-80 1 do 
not know a parallel from a Sanskrit source. 

P. 77. In the booh Vish $ %- Dharma . — t on this the 
note to p. 54. The Arabic text has not Pari k shit, but 
Farihsha, which name is mentioned by Hall in a note to 
Vnshua-Inedtm,, iv. t chap. xx, p* 154. 

Pp* 78, 79. The hook Gita - — These three- extracts are not 
found in the Hhftga r.ad - Uitd, The words, “ He who mor- 
tifies bis lust/ 7 &c. t compare with Bka&amd-Gitd, iv. 21, 
li Void of hope, self-restrained in thought, performing 
merely bodily work, he contracts no sin*" Regarding the 
passage, “Pleasures of a kind which, in reality, are dis- 
guised pains," -i\ note to p. 70. 

The expression, tlw 'nine dears of thy body (p. 79, S), is 
also found in Idmgmw.d- G Ud, v* 13 : “in the city of nine 
gates," i P fi, in the body. Of. also Odnhhhya Karikh > r. 
xxxv* 

I ’p 79. 80. Th <" book G it d . — Th v so cj n otation s can n ot be 
compared with anything in the lihar/a.md-Gitd. 

P. St. Pa t afijalL — There is a certain resemblance be- 
tween these words and the last of The Toga Aphorisms " 
(iv. xxxviit.) : “ Isolation is the regression of the qualities 
devoid of the purpose of soul, or it is the abiding of the 
thinking power in its own nature.” 

Pp* 8l, 82, Sd rhlihya,- The comparison with the wheel 
of the potter (not the silk- weaver) is also found in 
Sdrdnkhya KdriM, r. Ixvii. 


P, 82. In th-e book of PatiaffdlL- — I have not found these 
two passages anywhere else. As to l lie faculties of the 
perfect Yogiu, vj\ “ Yoga Aphorisms," lit* 42, 44. 45. 

P. 83. flu Silfi explain the Korand mrse, tfe. — Peing 
asked about (he story of BJmlhwvmm (Eicorirntus, iau 
Alexander).. Muhammad says. “ We (Le. Allah) hace made 
room jdr him on earth ; " or, as Sale translates. LJ We stab' 
idled for him on earth f which means, We have f een him 


288 


ALBERUNPS INDIA . 


a jjo&if-ion of w 'U- rstabl U?ud onfliorily u-r ptj-iwr on mrtk^ 
and this authority or power is interpreted by Sufi com- 
mentators in accordance with their tenets, perfectly har- 
monising with those of the Yoga philosophy, 

P|>. S3, 84- SihitMiya* — With the tale of 'the man tra- 
velling in the night with his pupils compare a similar one 
in Gaudap&da's Ifk&shya to Sdmkh/a KCiriktf r, \xx, (on 
p. 106), 

l\ S v — rf nimonius, a philosopher of the Neoplatonic 
school, v, Zeller, .Philosophic t. hr Grit's- hen, iiic. 829 mg. 
A Greek book of his which contains these extracts, from 
Pythagoras and limped odes is not known. He has been 
known to the Arabs as commentator of Aristotle ; v. Wen- 
rich, lh Attdorum Grtctomm Verdmibit*, p, 289 ; Pibrist, 
i>. r^r. 

By Heracles in the passage, u Empedocles and his suc- 
cessors as far as Heracles,” is probably meant HeracJides 
Pont lens. 


Pp, 85 . 86. Socrates wt/x. -The first, extract is identical 
with Pkc&dQi 79D, the second is composed of Ron, Roa, 
8l a B, the order of the Greek text having been aban- 
don ed. 


Pkt&do, 790. "Qrav Si y<z avri'j xu.B' arjy v (TKOT-sf tKita*-: 
ii^ Tii' Ktt&apliv Ti /■: i r. r rl.fr. aV ,k,'> 1 iWrivtjeTQV ft i'Jr. r. h.inTij. rri'.'s 
c^cii- 1 , Kal ii iv ir^yy^r?^ oiVrj < t.vro i ' «ef. far cKeivav re ytyrcTHij 
orunrfp ar-TYj na 0 f aiirijv yivv/rai nal e£\] avry f icrjil re 


irA a 


L'rju Km fKn.vii ue c Karo tcavtu wovaitus arc 


TtnovTtuy li^curro/unj • 
ft in XjilTd t . , 


TOVTO tii'Tifh To rftptjVlJirvs 


Rob, "lidjirti. iStJj ff fnf t A Ke^Sj d Ik jrih'Tfjie r »jD^|!itfiwv 
Tafie vet, thi> fid fault kul dOnvartp uo.i voyrip fttd 

f/rOVOuSd taai afitnAiJrw ft id ud mrrfj,vxros xal ft a t rr. to. ArA lyorT i 
dtvTtii o^LdLorarov dvai tuj <Vaif0)(Hu?riV(p kcu f?vijT 4 p k a l 

t.i. t'OijiT lJ ft in trcj A i. it .'At i k i j. Oi-'-fA rT ' '.I ^i.tr yATji rjgTTOT€ Karri. TuAtA e^Oi-TA 

tavTt.u tjfxoLoraroif id dyn\ vwfjLo. . 


ANNOTATIONS. 


289 


SO A, cirttAur er Tri.Mri’Tfi.i itan. *pv%j} K«[ ira/ML, Tip fih' Ofl l ■ 

wal ■// ^ucrts sr/iwTUTTeJt,, tjj 8e ap^etv x«f , 


Si A und B. O^JV'Ql'V OLTW ^.tr 1-:^ Oi.ua. SIS OfLW. QV fu'7jj t TO 
dciSes'j dare/) ^erottp, rt> fleJ'oi^ re Krd cl&lvarot' tftu of 

vTTi ipx iL tivry o) 3 ^lfX 0 Pi dwt, — Adnjs wat duaia? kcw 
r/iu/Jw #ceu ay ^((101/ fpcuTW kcu tw dAAiav Kaswv tLs- <£v $p<rrtr£iW 
du r f] A Aay^evrj-, raaTrep oe Aeyerat leara tcL- 1 p tjt.\ >vffi£ sw 3.' ? 0,5 
dXrjdm rm r AorTror xpuFOp petd tcni- 1 Smyawa ; oi.tw 

^cuae ^ A Ke/^Tjs, vj aAAcus ; GUT<y A 7 t e</>rji 6 K e/ij/i + ’Eeh' St 
■ye, otpu, ^Fjiirinr^F].-^ hrai dfcntfaprus tot rrnjpriTo; rt7raAAflTT>jTcit, 
are rw triipari eta ^uvoutra icai, tovto OepwKtvuvtra Ktu ipurnr jti.tr 
ycyor } 7 cv<i.f.V)f i‘— 1 avro ?, iird re Ttur CTTAth-yawi- 1 jcoif i"r/re 

fs.ip'-h 1 ■ ftAAf) i'.'ju.f-tif f.Lj-a I 1 . ilAljfe dAA’ i] To <7 trjjf ArATOt t $ np rrt ri| r 

d\pfUTttj AST, A, 

Fp. 86, 87, yb’/Vmv v-q/s — This, comparison of Brahman 
with aj l tt.Hr-t.il f Ita tree h found in Hkm/f-tetjel-dUdj xv. 1 G. 
and x* 26. 

The tfoctrifir of PatatijaH ,- — Ideas similar to these Sufi 
sen ten ces are found in Bh ftytmul- Git c r . v i , 28-31. describ- 
ing trie union of the son] with Brain nan. 

Pp. 87, 88. — On Abft-Bakr Aah-shibli rf. Ibn Khallikun, 
translated by De Sla&e, j. 51 1-513 ; Abuhnahasdn, Anilities, 
ii. 313. lie lived in Bag d ad . w ns a p 11 pi 1 o l r J t r n a i d , d i e d 
A.IL 3 34 = a a ) . 946, in 1 5 ag dad f an d w as bu rie d t. h e re . On 
A b Cl - Y az id AI bust am i rj\ I bn Kliallikfm, nr. 311, He 
died a j T .. 261 = A. ra 875. JAmi has articles on these two 
in v sties with many quotations from them in his JNafoApV- 
nTvm (Lee's *■ Persian Series,” the Ntf/ah(t(~ftlons t &C., or 
the f A v es 0 f the So 0 i 1 s, *\ j y » I il mi, 0 ale 11 it a T 1 859, p] k 20 ) 
and 62), 


P.88. The SvJ -f e; op! r t it Ulu Kw l ttn u ■ ? ■> t .w ige (S 1 j ra 2, 68), 
. L,: A f id w 3 1 e 11 you Lad k i 1 1 e d a pe r s 0 1 l a 1 1 d we re dis- 

puting am 0 u g yu u rsel v e s (Hue one 1 1 1 row i 11 g th e b I am e 
on the otlmrj, wddlst God was bringing to light what 
YOL. II. T 


2£0 


A LB E RUNTS INDIA. 


you concealed, then we spoke; Beat him (the killed per- 
son) with part of her (the killed cow mentioned in the 
preceding ”). In Hi at case the killed person will again 
"become alive and tell who murdered him. “Thus God 
"brings to life the dead ones/’ &c. Cf. A. Geiger, Was hat 
MiJuimwjjd am dem Jv.dmthmm tmfyenommm I Bonn, 
1833, p. 172. Muhammad has moulded this part of 
Stlra 2 from elements taken directly or indirectly from 
Numb, xix, 2 seq* y and Deuk xxi. 2 seq. 

The Sufies try to show by this sentence that the body 
must be mortified before the heart can become alive by 
mystic knowledge. 

R 89. Sdmkhtfa. — For the two enumerations of created 
beings, v. Gaudaplida to S. Karikfi., liii p. 162, and xliv, 
P' H 3 - 

The reading of the MS is certainly wrong. The 

author means sarniya = but it would have been 

better to write in accordance?- with — daityn, As 

all the other words of this enumeration stand in the sin- 
gular, It is not allowable to read tins word in a plural 
form, like the Ri&his, the Pitris. 

R 90. In the hook Gif ft — -The first quotation on the 
prevalence of one of the three guna$ t st rff-ra, rajas, t aortas, 
is to be compared with Bhayavad-GUa, xvii 3, 4, &cq wl and 
siv. 6-8 seq* 

The second extract, u Belief and virtue/ 1 &c. I am 
inclined to combine with Bhagavad-Gttd, xvi. 3, 4, 

R 91. People say that Zoroaster t &c + — The author was 
aware of the identity of the Persian tier (demon) with the 
Indian tier a (god). It is in this way that ho tries to 
account for the discrepancy of the meaning* 

R 92, S&Thkhya y w p. 8g - Wdsudeva, v, p. 90. or Ehaya- 
rad-GUd, xvii. 4* 

R 93- GaleYtuSf irc/it trvp&itrtm ^appaKtav rh* Karls, t throve 
ed, Kuhn, yob xiih p. 268 ; — ■ 


ANNOTATIONS. 


291 


£av 8 >]v r j.-e V Tpi\a BdXXt fwptirwov hr od to to 
OV; kv&pas 'I'lppd^ X\i fluent r. «k r fdordvai^ 
Kguisrav Oe WTo.fiftA'iv <hpa r res d. vcpa s, ov yap ttfijgAovy 
B<£ A At Se nal tipaftjjd'jv Sairktav E vjdo**^, k.t.X. 

ApaXI^P KfJtt IjtEvSfiHi'lijUflUj rjl- 1 

Xw/aos o t - f jv Hwnr^ Zijm Ao^^wnct^^t os. 


The second quotation „ v- on p. 271 : — 

d^iot j^dWeiv rjv fa'vBitiPV pov niprfK-e pltav^ tirtt^rf (rra^us 

oy^fid^Tat vdrpSov + fdov Atrut 8 1 av'Tvj r eZW*. Kpjrucijr, 
f/^rrti/, ?}]■ dvt&peipe ^9 pas ri r&v II urmj Zf/m craf.it ms, 

eVe iS'iJ ror Attt ^rfurtv oi gv6kiAe>y&4 K^rrl rft Awmuai' op0£ tv 
KpjlTj rpacfjvji'HJtij k pur Ttyjjtr e ro v vtto ttJ? p^rpos T'as, ottcus t.i/p iwi r. 
arras vir 0 rm' Trarphq to u Kpovou KarawoO-fj, 


P, 96, Europe, the tltmffhter of Phoenix, &c . — In the 
source whence the author drew his information about: 
Greek legends, G reek, Hebrew, and Persian traditions seem 
to have been mixed together. It was synchronistic like 
the Chronicon of Eusebius, with which it is nearly re- 
lated (note to p. 105)* comparing the dates of Greek his- 
tory with those of the Biblical and Persian history. Julius 
Africanns and Eusebius are the fathers of this kind of 
literature, but f do not know by whom the book which 
A 1 be r n ni 11 se d h ad be en cbm pos e d , Of '. MrneU vlt ronimr u m 
imiojtnm qim mperMnf ed, A. Scheme, 3 i. p. 13 (Zens), 
26 (Cecrops), 32, 34 (Aster ins) ; also the Syriac Epitome, 
p. 204, 206. 


1 \ 96. The story of Alexander is derived front the 
romance of Pseudo -Kallisthenes (ed. Didot), which Eastern 
scholars have mistaken for a historic record. 

“Man cannot oppose the gods w (p, 97, \) = -phs wavras 

yap cVl 1 1 ■ dpi Ha o' j@acrt Aets t 7 rpo? Of Tors 6 tot s or* Bwdp^Ba 

(ed. Didot, i 9). 

l - When then he died/ 1 &o., “ from a wound in the neck/' 
&C« ( p. 9 7 . 4) = ire iJ-rlj v oe X * KTa vs/H* Xap./M 1 -r l eph 1 ■ rpavpua 
Kara rov k avrov (l 14J, 


ALBERUNFS INDIA , 


292 

P. 97. — £ 7 /< note to p, 34. 

P. 97. Arattis . — The an t hoi 1 quotes the Fhmnorsmaa and 
a commentary to them, which exhibits certain relations 
with the scholia edited by Immanuel Bek her, but is not 
identical with them. As I learn from my colleague. Pro- 
fessor 0 . Robert* this commentary Is to be combined with 
the Gatasterismi of Pseudo- Eratosthenes. 

The first quotation from Arabm is v. 1 ,s cq. 

'Ek A (US' dp^mfA&F$UL J TOV Ov 3 e 7 TOT dlSpEq EWjiEV 
ApfYifTQV ' /AfcrTixfi Oe A tbs ir oirm plv dymai^ 

UiJWJTiit & ilvdpJiTTtul* dyopi.dj pm r—ff OdXv.frLnt 

Kiu \r.p.EVE<f ‘ irdvTf] 6? At b? k E^ ptrip^&a irdvrcs, 
lot' yap kcu y€i ! os ap.-tv " 0 o Vfirios avupitiufHfft.v 
Ae£iA trtpjLiiivet} Auois & £tl tpyuv tyit.pt t, 

M LpwpTKm' /SWcno ■ Acyet S* Are ^5Aos dp/crri] 

B&fijt T€ rau e AijtTi 1 . ■ Aeyet ore Se|wu tB^ta 

Ivu (J>vtA yiTpwcrritj Kr.u cnrep^tam ttcutti /3 a AdrfrY.u . 

Altos yu/> jayt (.r/ftut.T kv ovpavip io-rijfugi-v, 

Ao-jpa tit.axpt'ms - ejKidarri o ? As kirt&vTbv 

ActtIjCmi^j Qt zee p,ftr\t..a~T(t TE.Tvyfjt.Eva a-'ijpaivoiEV 
A 1 'Optlwi 1-' Wp-JUOE'j (H./jyj 7TO. tT o.. 

I'm uit- net irp^rov re Afar. nfrraTor tXdj.ricovTat... 

XatpEj “ttTtps /-c ty o, flat'pjt, u^prij7rOi(J-£y oretti^ 

A i Vos- Ktu 7 rp*.tTtp-if yEvErp X ru / ?aAre ^ Moravii 
MeiAtytai jutwAot ratr ti ^ k, t.A. 

Ik 97, on /he Ph/cuomena of Amt vs . — The 

following quotation from the Scholia Sttng&'mmien&iff; p. 
55, I owe to the kindness of Professor Robert: “Crates 
uutem Jovem dictum ccelum, iuvocatinn vero meri to terern 
et m therein, quod in his suit sidera* et Home rum .Jovem 
dixisse in aliqua parte cuelnm.” 

As S ? on TapffyEiai vcrfA Ant A tbs i^TTOTiovrat 

—(l/w.% i. 3571), 

The common tradition of this verse is— 

ir>s O 7 art rapcjjeiat vtp.idoa.^ At?is IkttOtiqVtOa*, 


annotations. 


2 9d 


and thus It has been rendered by Albernni. Cf, on the 
Scholia 8*'*-tttfa'w ■ * neima t C. Robert-, Umiosthe-nis Off fv uteris 
suonivi, Ildiquice, Berlin* 1878, p. 31 . 

1 \ gg* Time $ latr and reliffion * — Vide note to p«. 79, 

l J . IOC. WImi Arda&Jdr Ibn JMbak. — Cj\ with these 
ranks of the Persian nation under the Hasan ions the 
‘ Chronology of Ancient Nations,” translated by Dr + 
Edward Sac liait. Loudon, 1878, pp. 203 and 206; GwvhicfUe 
dr , ■ pr r&tu ■ u .a d A mb n ’ zv. vZe U dvr St t mnidm : by Th.N did ek e, 
p. 437 

P. roi. Thi\ Vtn&ya who v&r& created from . — 111 the 
Arabic text. P i 5 4, there is a lacuna, where originally stood 
the words from the thigh (?W) of Brahman- The Sftdra 
who were created from/ 11 Vj\ Mann. Bk*wmaM$t.ra. L 87, 
■i/mhftff’MhH- &ru-pcg-jdndrh. 

P, io i. HdtfL &c . — Of these classes of outcast 

people, the Badhatau are not known to me. The Can d ala 
are well known, called Sfmd&lvi by Ibn Kkiirdudhbih 
(Elliot History of India, ” i. 16). The Hadis and Dom 
are mentioned by Colebrookc, ,f Essays/' 1 in, “ Enumeration 
of Indian Classes/ 7 p. 169, note 3. On the latter (cf. Rom, 
the name of the gipsies), }\ "Memoirs on the History, 
Folk-lore, and Distribution of the Races/ 1 &c. f by Elliot, 
edited by Beanies, London, 1869, 1. p, 84. Are the Bad- 
ha tan identical with the Bedfyas, mentioned in the note 
of Oolebrooke just quoted? 

It r 03. Vdsttd&m answered, — -The first quotation from 
Git (l is identical with Bhtmmd^GUd, xviii, 41-45 ; the 
second ts similar to ii. 31-38.. 

P. T04. The saying of Vydsa . — Vide note to pp. 40-44. 

P. 1 04. Vdxiuhra. — This quotation from G-lla much 
resembles Bh ttf/aead- ix. 32. 33. 

I 1 * 105- Minos .^ — I cannot acquit the book on ancient 
history which Albernni used of the blunder of having 

split the Minus of Greek traditions into two persons, a 


294 


ALBERUNPS INDIA . 


Minos and a Mianos (me). Of. on this source note to 
p* 

At the time of Bwrim, d'o . — Except the synchronism of 
Persian history, the whole passage relating to Nimia 
Pompilius may he derived from Eusebius, V hr on icon f 
ii. B'2 : — ■ 

N oVjtCrt per A *F iftp.vXjav /laeriAet'd-ir.s tt^wtos vopous 

Pui/Wots clfrijytiytv ’ [y mi'to? t h Kajrtrwktuv sk \Im- 

^tcoSap^tr^v ■] a ni'Ttfs no ei-'MtvTtjj $vo f.Sfws irpw'tftpce, tov t£ 
’Iai/ouaptov ku.I rh v ’frtpp&i .wlpwv 9 3ek<*.fnp'\r.I,(iv tou evtctuTov Tfpy 
tovtov jQtnjpirffoi'TOS L o iiAras; hid. Koyydapmr e&tiKtp, acnra/nn 
£uAf.va war. erfaVtva *reu ixrrpytfdsu. 

I\ TOJ, — These extracts from Plato’s Leges are the 

remnant of an Arabic translation* We give the Greek 
text for the purpose of comparison 

I. I* ’A €hj ratios H Heo? f Tts ar^pajirtwi' ry/iV f r’j £eV ot f cfAvj^f 

ri}v atnW rajs' ri7>i' vo^muv ■Sta^cretij-j ; KAe viols, 0eo$ T <5 ft i 1 ^ 
deos, <31? ye ro StKatoraTW edTretr, Trapd per tj/aiv irapa tie 

AaffeOitipovtot?, o6kr do’ eoTfV, o?pt r/jyrat rwrarj 'AsroAAoivu,. 

I- 6, ’Ticnrep to re clA?;^e^, m/e at,, Mir ru 6^<uar umep ye tes 
iWA^yap^votJ? Aeyetv, ovy tts 7rp?js dperijs rt pA/Hui 1 nal raiJTa to 
uTaTOV irfflii /JAtVom, a AAA rpb? irrarav u/kttjv, k.t A, 

L 6 . yd viSpuc. ovk eA/l pm^v iSiee^povTus' er flrcuriv 

et’fia^-r./ior ro^E AAtpri 1 v ■ ^aurjT yap lipfriusj to us aurois ^pdopt'^ovs' 
ev&upavias <MraTeAo£v«s' ' Air arra yap tA rityaflu sroptfovtn. 

II. f , #ech tie. otAre/parres to riSv avOfKomov i—t.wovov ret/A^'As 
yevo? f avairauAots re aurot? twv ttovwv c-ra^a-VTa rns Tcu !' eypTOiV 
Apfji/j Jst ifai Moucras J AiroAAajva re poway err j v Kut ^nrutror 
A/r top t nr cr t A s tSacrety. 

IL i, jyp.ii* Ae yvs eiVryper deed's fvy^opewAs' ryiVauv 
flv at. Kiit ryis- Se^oKorav Tvjv erpu^p.or re M'd. evttppiv*yr ni\rihpri.v 
pdf vjSovi/s, ;\i 6/J Kivtiv re jJ/aAs' ^uf. ^o/n^y€(i' tJ/alv rourous, c^Sa£s 
re #cat fl px-jjcrtiT tv iv.AAtJAous ^urerpovrus, v opovs re wropa^evat to 
Trap a rijs \ a P^ ^j I -4* vril v dvupa* 


ANNOTATIONS. 


295 


1 *. 107* rfdutinin. — Of, Vwhim^Pur&xL a- f iv, cli, xx. p* 

1 5S, and the not#?. The story of the corse of Flbidu is 
given in the MahAhMratft. v. 3812 beg, 

Vyt fan , — His mother is Satyavati : r. Fisfoiu-Pitrdna, 
1 . c. The birth of VySs a is mentioned in MahdhMraia 
Adipa.n'rm, v. 3S02. 

P. 108. Panmhir, better PancMr * — The author means 
the alpine countries of the Hinchiknsli between Kashmir 
and a line from Faizabad to Kabul, i.e. the HarAra country, 
Hvilt, Oit.ra l, and Kafiristan* It is well known that poly- 
andry exists among the Tibetan tribes in the Alps between 
Kashmir and Tibet, but I am not aware whether it is also 
found among the inhabitants of the more western exten- 
sion of the Himalaya which he mentions, e.g, among the 
Styl'd) posh. On polyandry in the Pan jab r. Kirkpatrick 
in “ Indian Antiquary,” 1878, 86. 

The Pancliir mentioned by the author is the tributary 
of the Kslbul-Iiftd. Another Paneahir (sir) is mentioned 
by the Arab geographer Yakut as a city in Hadrian a with 
rich silver mines. 

Among the heathen Amis. — Of. here i. 1 85, 

\\ 109. A eeAinn Jewish mar-tiff ge , — On this custom in 
India and Indian tradition, ef, Elliot- .Bern lies, “ Memoirs,” 
L 274, s.v. Ka-rdiK 

f > . log r Barshewdr the GirnMh. — r l1i is seems to be a mis- 
take, and ] propose to read, as I have done in the edition 
of the Arabic text, PJjyi J *_L _\j , i.c, the SMb of Pad ash vILrgir 
or Prince of Tabaris tun (as *\g* Qiluoshilh = tli0 Shah of 
Gilan). Of. V. de Lagatde, IkUrdgc zvr I&khischen Lexi- 
cographic , p. 50; S ach a u / ‘ Ch r 0 n 0 1 ogy 0 f A.i 1 ci en t N at ions , 1 f 
p. 47, 19, and note; Nbldeke, OesrMddc dev Persrr und 
Arabcr stir Zcil tier Sftmmdm, p* 462* 

P, 1 i 2v — The story of Romulus is drawn from the Ohro- 
mgraphia of Joannes Mai alas, book yii. (Bonn edition, p. 
172). 

F. 1 13. Arfibarishi . — The story of this king seems to 
have been taken from the Vishv u- Dharvue, i\ note to p* 
54. Probably Ambarisha, the son of Nablmga, is meant, 




A LB ER LINES INDIA* 


famous as a worshipper of Vishnu* (//'. Viskijn-Pvriir*- 11 * 
book iv. chap. II- p. 257, note 1. 

i *, 11 6. No. ra d u , — -The story of 1 J t is sai n 1 , a Moses in 
India, is not known to me from other sources. 


I\ t lG. Jfdt f. m 1 h 1 1 Sht * ibd n . -T 1 1 e pro nun ciation 0 f the 
former name is conjectural, tile history of this Kunua- 
tian chief unknown. The expedition of King hi ah mi id 
against Multan took place aak 1006 „ in the ninth yvar of 
his rule, the seventh year of his usurpation of sovereignty, 
in which he had left out the name of his Sain an i liege- 
lord on the coins and in the public prayer, and had received 
the investiture, a robe and a title, from the source of all 
legitimacy in the Muslim world, the Khalil Alkhdir. the 
great enemy and persecutor of the Ka rin at i an 5 . Cj\ on 
this expedition Elliot, History of India/ 7 iv. p* 441 * 


P + 1 16, L 2 r. — There is an error in the calculation of the 
years* From the end of the Kritavuga up to the year 
4 L 32 of the Kali;, uga there have elapsed — 


Of the Tretjiyuga 
Of the Dvftparayugft 
Of the Kaliyijg'a. 


Year?. 
1*296,000 
8-64,000 
4 -i 3 2 


Sum 


2,164,132 


As Alberuni gives but 216,432 years, it seems he lias 
0 m itted by in ad v er te n ce t he ci \ di er 1 ( Sch y y t m ) . 


I\ 1 17, l 7-— The above supposition is confirmed by this 
passage: it ought to be the 132 years instead of the 432 
years. One can consider 132 years as a kind of arbitrary 
equivalent- for the sum of about. 100 years, but 432 years 
cannot be an equivalent for about too years (J$t:hram ), 


\\ 117, 1 . 10. — It must be 2,164,000 instead of 216,000 
(Schram), 


E 1 17. ^ard-hmiihim mys . — This extract is a transla- 
tion of Brih ai-BawJiif d, chap, lviii. 30-48 56-57, on 
the fabrication of the idols (p. 117-120); chap, lviii. §§ 
495 2 h on the consequences of faults in the construction 
of idols (p. [ 20) ; chap. lx. jjj 19, on the various classes of 
priests (p* 121)5 chap* lx* §§ 4, 5, on the effects of the 


ANNOTATIONS r 


*97 


idols [p. J 21). The order of the single verses is to some 
extent different from that o£ the Sanskrit text as exhibited 
in the edition of Kern. In the Arabic text, p. &V ? in. the 

lacuna after are required the words 1 

(“the sword and shield s, ) + 

P + 122, dri/d.- I do not know similar passages in Mr- 
f/amd-GUd. The first quotation distantly reminds one of 
JJk afjm-ml - G-ilti r iv . 25. 

T. 123. Flttlo > — This quotation shows considerable con- 
fusion in the rendering of the Greek text. Cj\ Lege#, iv\ 8. 

TTp&TQV (JtlVj rfMlflh\ Tlfms TttS ft. £7 ’OXvfMrtavS TC Kid TOUS TTJ1/ 
fleovs TODS «»' td* Otol S uprttt Kixi Sew/ia 

Kid U^I.LTTf^Ci F-Cr.J.-ivI' (Jp 0 OTim< TO? TiJ$ ei’LTf^' DCl? tTKOlTOL? TUy^urD*, 

Tins Oe tovt&v cWfe 1 ra ircptrru k«1 dvri^tava ruts 'ipirpuerdcv 
fyqO fieri vvv &/f ■ pra o£ TfnrrSc kua ruts fiaipxrt]' o y* 

e w/yaap opy «££iu r' ixj', rjptuu~t tie ; nt l^rajKoAouWct 

tf it.vTot^ $pvpu#t& wha itarpumv &eSty Kara vojxav npyt.a(6fi,€Vfi/ 
yovim. Of ]&m TOrVTVr rifted f’cSvTWj Si &ps, <j^KiX<>i.Ta airorfvety 

~ — 7 TJ ✓ ; z~ 

r<t TTpi-mt Tt hr at pytcrTLi u A^pJtr ft, k.t.A. 

The underlined words are the original of the Arabic quo- 
tation . Th e trans ] ator 1 1 as ren d ered Sa ir by aj f ( god s), 

V/KrHTt by uulJuJLjj by which elsewhere the word MolWi. js 

m * * 

translated, and wpyi&fav by pJljt (instead of , 

; J 1 = jU- 1 .2 ), He seem s t o lia v e mis tak e n th e me an in g 
of the word sVftKoAtwfe^ translating in this way : i l they (the 
iSpvfAAtTft = ^Lw 1 } follow in rank after tlio frurp^ot tfeoi, ix. 

you shall not put the wdrp^t. Owl in the first place, but 
worship them seeundo loro. 

]\ 123* Galena#.- - Vide note to p. 34. 

l\ 1 26. — The tradition of Saunaka from Venus (so the 
Arabic text), ix. Snkra } is perhaps taken from rim Visfanu- 
D harm a ; v, note to p> 54, 

VixkirVs-PuT&na * — Compare this quotation with book ilk 
chap, i i . ]l 29 (ed. Wilson -Hall)- The Great Hear is called 
the Sewn BisJus in Sanskrit* 


2^8 


A LEER UNf$ INDIA . 


P. 126. Vnmkra * — This reading does not quite accu- 
rately correspond to the Arabic signs, which must be read 
Va&ukra, I have preferred the former* because it is men- 
tion ed in the St. Petersburg Dictionary as the name of a 
man who occurs in the Veda, as a poet of Vaidio hymns. 


P. 127+ Galmm*— The quotation from Galen us must be 
compared with the following passage in his o-uv^ttrews 
tfnipim.Kwv Karri yivrj (ed. K Lihii* tom* sill. p. 995) 1 — 


ijupiB'tj 5t {'tto MtJ' 1 1 k p aro v s 3 k.t.A. lariKhv tpdpfMiKQV. iiriyD 

•ypaTTTiu 5c to ftiftkioiy k.t.A. civTOKpamp o\oy pdpp.aros ’ avroK - 
pdrmp fj.lv j iTrtiBij tqv rig oXoypd ftpA/.r os 5 1 Baotl 

rjAtue rats a’uAAa/sVis yeypavrat ft' W y #eat 
K K«i f Kif.r TW U AAttfV Up* frpN V CKCCCTTO?, K + T. A P TO UTd S' (ITTpU.^V 

o M iviKfAri] ^ tbrwfrr} “oAA^jcas 01 ? ptoror eImjjtwv w/iapTui'ev^tu 
oTig/Jccfrti Kara t<1s y patios uAAu kcu 5tu c/jfrovm. 1 txdvrtuv Jv/tuy ? 
k.t. A. 


etKortos 0 Fir ?j u5c k tpvpre xa Aa^oKparovs /iiZ/JAxit Cjktpp.aKCt>v 
ets gerpa ypc^irra [*at srVr^j SSw™ ri>v Tpdww rdfiTOV iyk~ 

y pair to ], K&kkvjTuv civ 7fV. 


That which I have under lined forms the text as given 
by Alberuni 


P. 127. Vydsa had four ii&hya* — Gf. Vtshnti-Far&na, 
book iii, chap, iv* 


Ik 1 2 K . A pemlu 1 1 ■ l: in d of recti rr lion , — This is a descrip- 
tion of the four jj aihm^ pafhrpdt'ha^ krauarpdtha, iV.o + Of. 
Colebrooke* ■ f Essays,” i. 1 8 + 

P. T 2 R* Kdndin. — The w ord lJ p e vid entl y ref e re to th e 
divisions of the Yajurveda called fomdikd. The text of 
the Yajurveda is composed of Kv,nri y and its name (the 
name of Yajurvcda ? what name of it?) is derived from it 
(from hlnrif), i.c. the collection (or totality) of MnrO’ It 
does not appear which one of the names of Yoyu rveda is 
here meant by the author as having been derived from 


A N NOT A TIO NS, 


299 


hituu Is there n name of Yajuryeda like katidiLa or 
hhjdin. meaning rmzuting of htodihU ! 

In kdn n = handikd the cerebral d is rendered by an 
Arabic r t as i n t_i^£ kudu m f ryddi, ,*f f/fl.radrq 

drffV'idty,, rarfci^ v.'iwiSbK, The 

termination in long i seems to be characteristic of the 
vernacular form of Indian speech, and is probably a sur- 
vival of the more ancient termination ifot, Hcd ♦ Cf\ K. 
Hbrnle, “Comparative Grammar of the Gaud inn Lan- 
guages/’ §195, 203, 205. 

I 1 , 128, Y&jnimdhya* — Cf. Vulmu-Furdm^ book iii. 
chap. v. 

P- 129. The well-known story. — It is told by Alberuni 
hi m sell! i, p. 396. 

1 \ 131- Vi£inu~Piu'd\tn-. — This index of the ruranas 
occurs in book iii. chap, vL pp. 66 i 67. In the Arabic 

text 'iC, 12, read instead of 0 /■ 

L\ 13 1* SinrUL — The author erroneously calls it a book. 
It is the literature on Jaw, and the. twenty sons of lira h man 
h ere m e 11 tiors ad are a li tk ors of Dk * wm f m Ui ra % . ( 7 '. on sm t 'Hi 
(opp. Jtridi) i Oolebrooke, “ Essays/' i. 337 , 4 66 ; A, Weber, 
Vorkmntjm, p. 296, note 327: Tndueke Studim, i. 232, 

A 1 hen 1 ni sometimes quotes the booh Smyiti* However, 
he had not tlae book 1 dm self, but transferred those quota- 
tions from the Bmhmasiddh&nta of Brahmagupta* In 
reality it Es the latter author who quotes it. As, according 
to him. the book smrdi was composed by Manu (v. here 
ll. T T o ? 1 1 r ) H he means the ThornfoMstro of Manu. This 
taw code is only once clearly referred to by Alberuni (in 
e 6 \ ) , but in a manner which makes me think that it was 
not in bis hands. On Mann, as the author of the great 
Mdnam (a work on astronomy and astrology ?), v. p. 157. 

P. 132* Gmifpi,.— On the proposed identification with 
Gan dap Ad a, i\ note to p. 30. 

S&fhhhya. — Vide the same note. 

PotoSfjtili. - Vide note to p. 27. 

ibhtt&hd . — This my transliteration of will 

perhaps seem doubtful, as the contents of the book have 


300 


ALBERUNTS INDIA . 


no relation to the Xynya philosophy or logical system of 
Gautama (cf. CoLebrooke, “Essays;" j. 280), but arc clearly 
identical with, the Mimtirnsa philosophy of Jaimini. who is 
here mentioned a lew lines farther on* However, 3 do not 
know another mode of reading the word* Til at Kapil a 
was the anther of such a work does not seem to be known. 

M&m&rhsd'- — Of. Oolebrooke, “ Essays,” i. 319, In oppo- 
sition to ICapila, J aim ini teaches that the Veda is primeval 
and superhuman* This theory and the discussions through 
which it has passed are also found in the history of Id am 
applied to the Koran. According to Islam* the Koran 
too is primeval and superhuman. 

Lnukdyuki: read Loktiyula . — It is the materialistic doc- 
trine of the Carvftka sect that perception alone is a means 
of proof. Of, G. A. Jacob, f< Manual of Hindu J ^mtheism/' 
Veduntasara, p. 74 ; Cole brooks, ■■ Essays,” i. 426 saj,, 456 
m jr * ; J „ M uir, v era es f r oi n the S* f r m - da rm n tt-m 1 5 uji y t h a t 
&c*, illustrating the tenets of the Charvnkas or Indian 
materialists, i( Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society,." t86r,p* 
299, and “Journal of the German Oriental Society/" xiv. 519, 

Bril i as pa Li is the founder of this school ; his -vdr/i is 
quoted by B b as k a r a-a ca r y a . The JMrhaspatyoxrifovni is 
mentioned by A, Weber, VaHesuntjen. p. 263 

l*. 132, Atjtiftiya * — IT is doctrine is not known to me. 
is it identical with that of the Jain as? Of. Uolebrooke, 
“ Essays,” ii. 1 73. 

Vide note to p* 54- 

P. 132. HhfwrfO) l.e. MnMfbhdrffla^ which is repeatedly 
mentioned by Albernni Bhwjft-vad-G'Ud is a part of it. 
(1. 132). The story of the birth of Vasudeva and of his 
five brothers (i* 401-406) is taken from MaMbkdvnht* 

I am not quite certain whether Alberuui had a copy 
of the work* When giving quotations from the book, he 
does not mention it, which he probably would have done 
if he had had it in hand, 

P. r 3 3. —With the index of the chapters of Mah.dbloiroh* 
cj\ Monicr Williams, Indian Epic Poetry,” p* 91 stq. The 
list of Albernni exhibits some remarkable differences. 


P* 133. Pdninf — The reading of the MS. is pdnrU% 


A XX OTA THINS . 


301 


cyy Li tv h ich I can n ot expl at n . 1 f 0 ,y b pto is the cor- 
rect reading, we must remember that in the sound n there 
is an admixture of the sound r. So Hbrnle, “ Com para- 
t i ve Gram 1 n a i 1 / ’ p. t 5 , say s : £: Th 0 ee rob ral u c on tain a the 
sound of r, being somewhat like m,” In this way Albe- 
rnni has transliterated the n in the word lanij 3 which be 

writes & h irnij* Accordingly we should expect to find 
^j-Cb pnminij but the author seems to have written 
pdnrinL 


IV 135. — The word -- Awkyahita, has been deci- 

phered by Professor Kiel horn ^ Gottingen. 

I\ 1 36, StUa rtth'ma .- — Other forms of the name are 
Bdlardhana^ SdlivakdH a (Hernacaudru, h 211); but Albe- 
rum clearly notes the pronunciation Samalvdkant/ , which 
is not known to me from other sources. 

1 \ \ 3 6 . — In s Lead of c m foa l * rh oh re ad vi mhthm 1 = m d 
v.rfafot m, 

\\ i$ 6 t —AbuVf*swfiFd> &o., is. according to the literary 
fc rad ] f ion, tin ■ 0 r i gi a 1 a to r of tl m i 1 1 g ram rn a ideal scien ee . Cj 
G. Fidget, Grawimaliwht fichtden tier Anther, p. 1 g seq. 

P. 136. Gfutndas . — In translating the chapter on metrics, 
I have derived much help from Colebrooke. '"Essays/ 1 it. 
p. 57 (on Hmiskrit and Prakrit poetry), and from Weber's 
edition of the Mtras of Pin gala ( Indiseke Shid-im, vol. viiL)* 
Alberunij however, seem a to have used other sources and 
to have followed another system, which has greatly in- 
creased the task of the translator. 

I\ 137. Piugnia. — What are the Sanskrit, forms of the 

d v £•/ 

names mlitu, gai&itu. jjL’,1 auUydndu? 

The chapter of Brahmagupta's BrahwtmidtHitfotiit, of 
w ] t ich tli e a u 1 hor here ( p* 1 47- 1 5 o) com mum cates a f e w 
extracts, is chap, xxi., On the calculation of the measures of 
poetry and on metrics, v. i. 153. 

I\ 13 8 . — Alkhaiilj also mentioned i. 147, is in Arabic 
literature the father of the science of metrics. f)j\ G, 
Flvigel, Gvamnifdi^che BchnUn deT Arabe.r 7 p, 37. 

Safari. — Of. Frey tag, JmMsche Versfamsf t p. 64, 65* 


jq2 


ALBERUNPS INDIA. 


P. 140. Madhya.- — I do not know this term in Sanskrit, 
and the signs admit of different transliterations. Both 
the terms madhjd and mad.Jm are used in metrical ter- 
minology, but with different meanings. Of. Colebrooke, 
(i Essay a,” ii. 141 (madhuf and ii. 1 36, 141 (madhydf 

P. 14 t* IFaribh aft a ? — This name is no t k no w n to me 
as that of art author of a lexicographical work. The MS, 
clearly writes hariuddtt, which may represent various 
other forms of Sanskrit names. 

P. [41. — -The single letters m, y, ?\ &c +J denoting the 
single feet* are mentioned by Colebrooke, “ Essays/' ii, 63. 

P. 143* Place the numeral 2, t&\ — The rule, as explained 
in 11. 4, &c., differs from that one which is followed in 
the example (11. ri -14), in so far as in the former place 
the subtraction of r ( il and from the produci (4) he :?uh- 
tracl>; i ]f ) has been omitted- Put even if we correct the 
text of the. rule according to the exemplification, it cannot 
be correct, and we agree with .Alberuni that something in 
the manuscript must have been wrong (also in the passage 
below, 11 . 30-34}. For it. can be applied not to all eight 
feet, but only to two, via., to 

It < (2x2=4— i = 3X2=6-i = 5) 
and to 

l<i (2x2 =4- 1 =3x2=6), 

i.e, these two feet occupy respectively the fifth and sixth 
places in the arrangement on p, 141 (below). 

It 143. The Greeks, too, &c * — The comparison with Greek 
metrics is unintelligible, as something must have been 
dropped in the Arabic text, 

P, 143. Consonant or syllable, — I suppose the author 
means syllable. The Arabic word has the same in- 

convenience as Sanskrit apslum* of meaning both syllable 
and sound (mostly consonant). 

P, 143, A ryd. — This reading is a conjecture of mine, as 
the MS. has aval, which I cannot explain. The descrip- 
tion given by the author seems to be applicable to the 


AN NOT A T I ON S, 


Jjy£ metre, which could he known to him from his 
stu d v of V rahmagu pta ’ s Br ah 7} t a & idd. h dw PJ . Ooleb rook e, 

“ Eh says/' ii. 66. 

P. 144. SkandhtL — A kind of AryS metre, Colebrcoke, 
“ Essays/ 3 ii, 1 37; or sJcandhaka, v. Weber ^Indische StmUm, 
viii. 295. 

A 7 w</tf/l — This Arabic metre, represented in European 
fashion, is the following : — 


P L 145. Vftita *— On the metre of this name -r. Cole- 
brooke, “ Essays/’ ii 145. However the signs { 0 -r-f ) 

admit of various other ways of reading. The MS. has hrU if. 

P. 147. $loka , — On the rules relating to this metre r. 
Colebrooke, " Essays/' in 107* 

P B 150. I ham only seen a single leaf , — This translation 
is to be replaced by, I have only studied a single leaf.*’ 

P. 15 1. Gfflf/A'itft , — The quotation is found in Ids ir^i 
uui* , ^etrecij^ <^ct pfuitcwv kutw. yh-vj (ed. Kuhn),, tom, xliL p* 

" 6:— , 

LtAA.’ VJ yt St a T tU !■' "tlTTO McVCJfparoV? t VptOriart, Ol.ll 

rrul-Sf T i'"i l' T|JL j/JlTpiliV CTTOiX^i*'^ r«i» AapoKparous yAypairTo:*. 


P. [53, — On the literature of the Sid- 

dhantas r. E, Burgess, Stirya Siddhtmla, p. 418-422. 

NrUkemf, is written with hh instead of nh f as hhdshd — 
bktilhd. Of, Ilornle, "Comparative Grammar of the <Jau- 
dian Languages/’ § 19 and 20 . 

Vardhamihiru, — Vide note to p. 54. 

Pp- 153. 154. Bfahmwjpi'ptcu — 11 is work, the Brahwa- 
siddhdnla^ has been very largely used by Alberuni, It 
exists in manuscript, but has not yet been completely edited 
or translated, Alberuni translated it into Arabic when he 
wrote the Indim (aju 1030). We do not know whether he 
ever finished it. 

Brahmagupta was only thirty years of age when he 


A LEER UNI'S INDIA + 


3°4 

wrote this work. He is accused of the sfri against, con- 
science of having propagated futilities and lies in order to 
please the bigoted priests and the ignorant rabble of his 
nation , in order to avoid those dangers in which Socrates 
perished. Vide chap, lix, on eclipses, and specially ii. ill. 
Besides, Alberuni accuses him of undue animosity against 
Aryabhata (i 3 76). 

Brahmagupta holds a remarkable place in the history 
of Eastern civilisation. It was lie who taught the Arabs 
astronomy before they became acquainted with Ptolemy : 
for the famous Bind kind of Arabian literature, frequently 
mentioned, but not yet brought to light, is a translation 
of his Bvtfkn t udddktln ta- ; and the only other book on 
I n d i an astronomy, c all ed A l a 7 vl i an d, tv h i ck th ey k n ew, was 
a translation, of his Kht^daldiddj/^k^. 

The latter work (here ii. 7) is also called Krrmnal‘htn^ 
dakhddyahr (b 156). It was explained in a special com- 
mentary by Balabhadra (ii. 187). 

A third composition of Brahmagupta’s called UtUmt* 
llttmdfikhAd^aka > \ < mentioned i, I 56, arid quoted ii. 87, 91 . 

Of. on Brahmagupta Colebrooke, “ Essay s/* ii. 409 aaj. ; 

| >r. Bhau Dajb L: Brief Notes on the Age and Authenticity 
of the Works of Aryabhata, Vamhamihira, Brahmagupta, 
L'viC.P in the i+ Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society/' [865, 
voL i 392 wr/r 

Notes from Varfth am ih iiVs PawwiddJt&nilkrt have been 
ed it ed by Q < Th i ha u t in the Journal of (he A si a tic 
Society of Bengal/" 1884, voL liii. p. 239. 

Sindhind e mentioned ii, 191, as the only source of llie 
information of Muslims on Indian astronomy and astrology, 
According to ii. 90, the Indian computation of the heliacal 
risings of the stars and the moon is identical with that 
given in Sindhind, It. is called the f/rwt sindhind ( [Sid - 
dhmfttj ii + r8. 

A 1 hern n i h a 3 wrl 1 1 en a t r eati se 0 n i t . Sec pro face to 1 1 1 0 
Arabic edition, p. xx. 

P. 154. Puli? ct . — This name and Paulisa are written 
Pu 1 i sa an d Pars 1 is a in Ut ] tala K s eo miner* ta tv to th e Sa > U 1 itd 
of Var&hamiliira ; but as Alberuni writes them constantly 
with a u"- not I am inclined to believe that he and 
his Pandits pronounced Pvli^t and PavJiw* Alberuni has 


ANNOTATIONS . 


305 


drawn from the almost as largely as from 

the and was occupied with translating 

it (v. dan i. 375). 

The relation between Pulisa and Pan lisa is this: — 

is the sage who communicates his wisdom in 
this *SVr ItlhA trfa. I [ e was a native of Sai ntra, -be. A lexmidri ;jl 
AV/K c is the redactor or editor of the book, The one 

as well as the other is called L:*j } Greek (not By aan- 

tine Greek). iC Pulisa says in his Sidd/tdntu that Panlisa 
the Greek had mentioned somewhere/' &,c . , i. 266, 

A commentator of this tSiddk&nla is mentioned L 339 
m e d . j where I now prefer to translate ; L 1 T Ji e corn me n tat or 
of the Siddh&nta of Pulisa/ 5 

Pulisa quotes Parasava (ji. 208), and is himself quoted 
by Aryabhata jmu (i. 316). 

Pan lisa is quoted by Brahmagupta, i. 374 (v\ note), 

Cf on the PttlimdddMtda H, Kern, The. Brhat Sankittl, 
preface, p. 48* 

P. 156. — senior is clearly distinguished from 
Aryabhata junior, who is mostly called ’ l l!iat one from 
K u 5 n m ap 1 1 ra , * : i. e. 1 Mralipi it ra ( 1 J at n a ). A I be r u ni feu 0 ws 1 1 i m 
only through the quotations in the works of Brahmagupta. 
H e me n tic :> n s t wo of h i s work s , Ik r fcifjil ikd an d 7 ■ yd ah f aiat a , 
which have been edited by Kern, Ary a- hh atiyam , 1874. 
Of, Dr Rim. 11 Doji, '■ Brief Notes on the Age and Authen- 
ticity of the Works of Aryabhata/’ p, 392. 

P. Eg 6, Bahihhx*dr<u — Of his works are mentioned: — 
(1/) A iftrtfvif* 

(2.) A SariUdht 

(3. ; A commentary of the Tlrih<yjtit(thnu of Varahaim- 
him (p. 158). 

(4. ) A c om m en tar y to tl 1 e Kh < t >< d t fkh t i < ly* th.t of B r ah m a^ 
gupta. 

(g.) Ho is supposed to be the author of the book KIuui- 
1 . 1 rthk ft dtja h 7 1 ip/Jt t * 

Alberuni always calls him the CQ'mmmtfdOT, and fre- 
quent 1 y 1 1 1 1 otc- li ini wi L h o 11 1 ii idi cat in g f r 03 1 1 w h . t ] ja r t icu 1 ar 
book he quotes. Hr gives on his authority the latitude 
of Kanoj and Titnesbar t and passes harsh judgment on 
him i, 244, 275. Cf also note to p + 27.' 
vol. n . 


u 


3°d 


A LEER UNFS IN DIA . 


F. 156. Bk/hmraja-s (.also on p. 1 57), — The Arabic T\T W- 
writes Bahdnarf u$ t which I cannot identify, A slight 
atte ra fcion ( 0 f U 1 0 A \#) would gi v e Ehdnuj/as'm, 

which name was suggested to me by G. Buhler, 

j-\ 1 56, K^ra-bahayd . — As knra means ri.ce, boo, haim /& 9 
must mean wwimtauK Is it a vernacular form for purntfa i 

P + 156, Khit n dt < - khddjfu fat -l ajjptt — The MS, lias hqtpd 
or tipjffi (fuppd) t of which 1 do not know the Sanskrit form, 

* & 

bj changed to ^ r jj would be = Uppani or commentary, 

Vijayanandin , - Al be ru ni q notes from I 1 i m a me th 0 tl fo r 
the computation of the longitude of a place (i. 313)* a note 
on the dominants of year, month, and Ford {i. 343), on the 
circumpolar stars (IL 90), an uJittrf/v-na rule (ii. 49, 50), 
An astronomer of this name is mentioned by Dr. Bhau 
Dajt as anterior to Srisketitn the author of Momid'iWtfa 
dhanta: v. “ The Age and Authenticity of the Works of 
Aryabhata,” &c. ("Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society,” 
1864), p. 40S, 

F. 156, Bkadatta (? MihdaMa ). — The MS. reads JAj , # 

BhadatLa is mentioned by Kern in the preface to his Brhal 
Sankitd, p, 29, Alberuni quotes from the work of Vitte- 
avara a note on the motion of the Great Rear (i. 392), on 
the mean places of the stars (ii. 6 o\ on the diameters of 
sun and moon (ii. 79), the latitude of Kashmir ( 1 . 317), 
the era used In the book (ii. 7), It must have been trans- 
lated into Arabic before Alberuni wrote the Indira, because 
he complains that that part of the book which he bad was 
badly translated (ii. 53}. 

F. 137. Uf.jjtdiL — Besides these two Karan a$j he has 
composed — 

(i.) A commentary to the great Mdnma composed by 
Mann. 

(2.) The PraSmc^ddmmi (p. 158). 

(3.) A. commentary to the Saihbitd of Vamhamihira 
(p* 29b), 

( 4, } T h e boo k Snidha m ( ? ) , w hen ce A lbe r a n I h as t ake n 
metrological and chronological notes (p. 334. 336, 361}. 
Of. 011 Uf.pala Kern’s preface to his Brhat Saukitd, p. 61. 


A KNOT A TIONS . 


30; 


The book-title rd Jmnrdktvmntt , i„e. Me AVr- 

TOr^rs, seems to tie corrupt. One expects the word karana 
in the first place, and a word for breaking in the second. 

l\ 137. — On Mmiu as an authority in astronomy and 
astrology, v. Kern, preface to Bphai Sanhitd, p. 42 * Of. 
note to p. r 3 1 . 

P. 157. Ptt&eala (?). — The author quotes from him a 
statement relating to the precession of the equinoxes j he 
speaks highly of him i and says that a theory of his was 
adopted by Ufpala (b pp. 366, 367). 

[ do not know of such an Endian name. The nearest 
approach to it is Mu'itfdla, that of an astronomer quoted 
by Colebrooke, “Essays," ii. 330. 33 2, 

P. 157. Bhadila (?). — The MS. has hahtdtal, and I sup- 
pose that the correct reading is Bhattila. The name is 
perhaps a derivation (diminutive ?) from bhatht. as hit-tud- 
r dt t f r am hn nut rtf, push a fr d h Ua iron 1 .Jt r t n diu t . Alb er 11 ni 
quotes him r ii. 20S : in the chapter on the yogas. 

On karasara and Garga ef, Kern. Brhnt Smthitih preface, 
PP- 31. 33 j on Satya, Jlvasannan, p, 51 ; on Manifctha, p. 
52. Mau is probably Identical with Maya; v. Weber, 
Vortemm/jen-) p. 270. 

P. 1 58. Of VardhmmMra , — This author lias com- 
p osed not on 1 v the Ska tp 0, ti cdiikd ai i d Hordpa ticahot r vya ( ; ), 
Ii lit also the Yogmjdl t -d f 1 r ika ? t iytiftd (?), an d Vi cdhapt it ala ; 
v. Kern. llrhoJ Stmhifn, preface, pp. 23, 26: his translation 
of the Yogaydlrd in YVebePs Ind-ische tittulmi. x, 161. 

The name of the author of the book on architect lire is 
missing in the Arabic text. If It was not likewise a work 
of Varahamihira^H, it may have been composed by Nagnajit 
nr Vigvakarman : v. Kern, L r + p. 3 1. 

P. 158* Srddhava.—l do not know the cur responding 
Sanskrit form. It seems tn be some relative of drulL If 
biitmtns had currency in the meaning of traditions, 1 
should identify it with srdAhava* Is it = &Qfavifa f 

The word is the title of two different books, one by 
Utpahi from Kashmir (v. note to p. 137b and the one here 
mentioned, on ornina and port eat a. lucky and unlucky 


3°S 


ALBERVNFS INDIA. 


days, Ac. It probably contained die names of the twenty- 
tour hard (i. 344); it. mentioned the names of the third 
parts of the day (ii.. 120), the names of the vt&hfi (in 201). 
the uni nek v days of the year (ii, 192), the name of Vikram- 
uditya (ii. 6, vide note to the place). 

The reading of the word £ij as Bang&la is probably 
not correct. Is it =]}W)yaMla ? 

I \ 158. Ot id hdma nt 1 (V), i n tl 1 e A ra bi 0 j A / *ti a t an . — As th v 
word is translated by unknown, one thinks of a derivation 
of the word guh = to conceal (v. y hatha). The Arabic 
characters may also be read ciid&wtxn-L I i‘ prahia jvr(i- 
man (?) really meant what Al her uni says, one would expect 
grit d hup? tth ut . 

J\ 158. Sangahila, Piruvana.- — I do not know the San- 
skrit equivalents of these two names. The former might 
be a word like mdhhhahi or sriiVftdii {Sipu'clhtx . y ) Prithfl- 
dak a is the author of a commentary on the Hra.hmwid- 
dkdnta 1 v. Colehrooke, Essays? 3 ii, 41 K 

Id. 159. Car aka . — The ancient Arabic translation of his 
medical work is sometimes quoted by A 1 bet 1 uni, and to 
judge from these quotations the translation was not free 
from blunders nor tho manuscript-trad it ion free from die 
effects of carelessness: r, a quotation on weights, i. 162, 
163; one on the origin of medicine, 1. 382. ij. Weber, 
Vorlvsungen, pp. 284, 289, 

P. 139. PaX'at antra , — Cfi on this book and on I bn 
Aim ukaffa T s shave in its translation^ Oenfey's introduc- 
tion to hm translation of the PmimUmtra (Leipzig, 1859). 
On the translations of the book and on the influence 
which King Mali mild of Ghazna has had on its fate, vf 
Golebrooke, <f Essays,” ii. [4S. The work of Jbu Aim 11- 
kaffa is that oik edited b}’ S, de Hac y f 1816. 

P P 160. Chapter XV . — For the translation of this chapter 
on metrology, 1 have derived much help from Cole brooks, 
** On Indian Weights and Measures w ( ;< Essays/' i. 528 
segAj t and Marsden's Nuviwiaht 0rie7ilaHu t new edition, 
Part L, ,L Ancient Indian Weights/ 1 by E, Thomas, London. 


ANNOTATIONS* 


3°9 

1874; A. Weber, Uebcr mi Fragment da' BkagaraU. IT, 
Theiij pH 265 note, 

TT l e w e i gh t of one di rh a rn = 011 e- se ve nil \ in ithkdl, d at.es 
from the time of the Klialif Omar. 

The weight of one dirham = seven ddnak. is peculiar 
to India in the author's time, for in general one dirham 
= six thlnak. Of. Bativaire, MaMriau,*: pour servir d 
ClliMcnrc tie la Nv.mi&matigue ti de la Melrologit Mmid- 
mtmeSf Paris, 18823 pp + 43* 8 1, 98: 011 the mithk&l, p. 35 ; 
on the fa 1 % p. 108. On the ancient denars of Sindli cf. 
Elliot, 4h History of India/* h it (Abu 7 aid), 24 (Masudl), 
35 (Ibn Hankal). 

P. 1 6 2 h la ir ah a h 1. ik ira , — Th i 3 passage i s Br ih at Fa fa hitd, 
chap. IviiL v h 1, The following quotation on pava } andi, 
mfidh/u and suvania, I do not find in his Sam-hit (L 

I 1 . 162, Oar aka . — The Arabic translation of this book 

not extant. The Indian words which occur in the 
extracts from this book arc not so accurately written as 
those in A 1 her uni' a own work, and oiler more difficulties 
in the way of identification : v. note to p. r 39. 

P. 162. Jiva&WitiatL — The words “As I have been told 
(by him) ” may better be translated ki As I have heard it 
from him/* Alberuni does not quote from a book of his, 
but only says M he has told, mentioned f ' fi: I have heard from 
hi ] n . 1 1 Accord in gly , h e seems to h av e been a con t ei n p o rary 
and personal acquaintance of Alberuni 1 e, in the same way 
as 8rip;\[ a, Alberuni relates on his authority details re- 
garding a festival in Kashmir and Svslt, ii jSi, 182. 
Besides, a Jivasarman is mentioned as the author of a 
Jdtakam, i. 157, who seems to have been a different person 
altogether, and lived before the time of Varahamlhira : r. 
Kern s Preface to Brhat SauMHf p. 29* 

P + 1 64 , Va rtihan iih inu — T h is q u ot at ion sc 0ms to cor re - 
spend to Bril fat S aalfh.it d } chap, xxiihv. 2. At all events, 
it is the passage to which Sri pula refers. 

Sripdla . — Alberuni quotes him a second time, i 240, 
where ho speaks of a star, Mia. as observed in Multan, 
which, people considered as unlucky, and ii, 209, he copies 


310 


ALBERUNFS INDIA , 


from him the names of the twenty -seven yogas. 3 Whaps 
■Sr i pn l a w as a sc 1 1 ol a v l i v in g at Alul tfi n in t he tim e of t he 
author, Alberti ni does not mention a book of his, 

I\ 165. Kt,si^?rba. — The story of Krishna's killing Hisu- 
pfila is told in the AIakdbkdrata 7 Sabliu- 

Parvan, v+ 1336 ^v/ + 

P. 165. A Ifaz&H is one of the fathers of Arabian litera- 
ture, the first propagator of Indian astronomy among the 
Arabs* His works are, as far as 1 am aware, not extant. 
Probably this Muhammad ibn Ibrahim Alfaanri was the 
son of Ibrahim Ibn Habib Alfazari, the first constructor of 
astrolabes among the Arabs, who as a surveyor partook in 
tli e io n n d .atio 11 of Bagd ad . Of. F tkr isL p. T G ildei neist or, 

in hi ^ Srriptoni-tH Arahum tie, -rebus Indiris km, p. 1 01, gives 
the translation of an article of Alldfti on our Pas^ri. 

According to the quotations of Alberuni (i\ index s, 
Alfazari), this scholar used the word pala in the meaning 
of day -minute ; he reckoned the circnmlerenee of the earth 

in r i,e.ifojmas ; he (together with Yakub Ibn Tarik) 

mentions a town, Tdm t in a sea in Yamakoli ; he gives a 
method for the computation of the longitude of a place 
from two latitudes ; his book contained the cycles of the 
planets as derived from Hindu scholars, the members of an 
embassy from some part of Sindh, who called on the Khalif 
A 1 m an su r , a , i J . 1 5 4 ( a . m 7 7 i ). A 1 beru n i ch ar ge s him 
with having misunderstood the meaning of the word Arj a- 
bliata, which he is said to have used as meaning ,^ i( of 
the measures of the great SiddMnta. i.c. the Ihri/tmasid- 
dkdula of Brahmagupta. Lastly, Alfuzuri (together with 
Yak fib) has used the word jLsb*ju (fmlawdsa 1 ) in the 
se n se of adhimdm ( 3 eap-m on tl j ). Oi 1 (he w li ole . A 1 be r u n 1 
finds that the tradition of Indian astronomy by Alfazari 
is not. very trustworthy, and. that in it the names or lermini 
techni&i are often corrupt and badly written. 

As Ali'azari and Ya k oh Ibn Tiirik are sometimes men- 
tioned in the same context, t lie re must have been a close 
relation between these two authors, the nature of which i 
have no means for examining. Have both learned from 
the same Hindu scholar, and have they independently of 
ead 1 0 th er com 1 nitte d th 0 i r in for matron tow ri tin g ? 0 r 


ANN OTA TIONS. 


3i i 

has the yjtie made a new edition or a commentary of tlic 
work of the other? Vide note to p, 169 (Ya*kuh). 

P, 1 65. SibL — The word occurs thrice, and is written 
(fiiyi T) : only in one place it seemed to be but on 
repeated comparison of the MS, I find that originally here, 
too, was written I do not know a measure of so oh a 

name. Perhaps it is the bid, of which 16 - 1 panH (p, 
1 66, b 2 in Somankth), Vj\ Oolebrooko, 41 Essays/* h 536; 
sixteen bids = one ptmti* 

P. 1 66. K h v-i irtz mi a n . — T J 1 e com pari son 0 f tl 1 e rr 1 eas u re s 
of this country, the modern Khiva, will remind the reader 

_ V ■ 

that it was the native country of the author. 

P. c66k Var&ha-ttiikint.^ I have not succeeded in find- 
ing this quotation in his Stfwdut&tL 

P- 167. Vardhajitikmi, — The passage here quoted is 
Sctvikitd, chap, xviiL v. 26—28. 

P. 167. 'Ajr&fL — Albania i only mentions the plural 
form, not. the singular, which would be pin or jaun, jdn + 
1 take the word to be the Arabized form of yqjcma. The 
change from yajana- to jdn was perhaps facilitated by a 
Hrakritic pronunciation on the part of the Hindu teachers 
of A 1 f azu r 2' , acco rd i ng to wh ich a j bet wee n two v 0 w el s ri 1 ay 
be dropped. Of(fao=ff^ m a t madam, mjata (Vararuci* ii. 2'). 

1\ 16S . — Archimedes fixed v as a measure between 3 ’ and 
3 f ■ Jf . Of. J , (t o w , £ : Sh or t Hi si ory 0 f U reek M at ] j 0 in atics , ’ ’ 
Cambridge, 1884, p« 235, 

It 1 69, — ■ YnLAJy Ihn T&rih seems to have been the most 
prominent predecessor of Albernni in the field of astro- 
nomy, chronology, and mathematical geography on an 
T 1 3 dian basis, li e is f re q u en tly qu oted in tl ie In r Una f n \ 11 ch 
more than AlfazAri. 

Here he gives the measures of the circumference and 
the diameter of the zodiacal sphere in yojanos, in which 
Albernni recognises the system of Pulisa. He speaks of 
a city, Tftra, within a sea in Yamakoti (L 303). lie gives 
the measures of the radius, diameter, and circumference of 


ALBlllWNrS INDIA. 


3 12 

the ell rib it] yojtt nas ( i . 312), a statem e n 1 . rm the I at il ude 
of UjruM, and a quotation ITom ike book HvTriom rm (he 
Game subject (i. 316). He mentions the four or 

measures of time, sflfcrrtwtofc, &c. (i. 353). 

H is w 0 r k con tali i 1 d tabl es 0 F t h e r e vol u t -i o 1 1 s 0 f the pi an et s , 
borrowed from a Hindu who had come in an embassy 
from Sindh to the court of the Khalif Almansur, A.ir. 
154 { = a.d, J/l), but. Alberuni finds in these tables con- 
siderable deviations from those of the Hindus (ii. i J), He 
is accused of having mis under stood the word Aryabhata* 
so as to taka ir. not for the name of an author* but for a 
to c h n 1 cal ter m n \ ean i n g T u 1 0 , , of the m easu re s e 1 ti p loy ed i. u 
the great Siddh.anta (that of Hraljmagnpta), on ii. 18, ig r 
He called the leap-month (part<tm&fia f) instead of 

adit-imam (ii. 23). He gives an incorrec method for the 
computation of the solar days in the ahar^ana and for the 
reduction of years into days (by the side of a correct one) 
o 1 1 j i. 2 6, 34. 3 8., H e gi v e s f urth v r det ai I s 0 f t h e a har^ ft n a 
computation (it, 44, 45), and a table indicating the dis- 
tances of the planets from ihe earth, borrowed from a 
.Hindu, aji, 161 ( = aj>, 777, 7?8), on ii- 67. 68- 

Accordingly the work of Yakub scorns to have been a 
complete system of astronomy* chronology, and mathema- 
tical geography, It is called Comp/ysitio tipka-ravitm and 

also be. Omwn. 

A ) be r uni sometimes criticises YYkfib, and inn in tains 
that lie had committed errors, that he mis-spelled the Indian 
words, and that he simply borrowed the tables from his 
Hindu authority without examining them by calculation. 

O11 his relation to Alfeaart, note to p. 163. 

When Alter uni wrote his Chronology, he did not possess 
Hie work of YakiYb, for there lie gives a note on the four 
m&nas and on the word <UjU A (pffdaiudsa ?) on the autho- 
rity of Ya bdb, but taken from the work of another author. 
Fide my translation 5 p- 1 5. 

As Yakub studied in the years a. h, 154 and 161 (a.k 
771, 778), he must have lived in the second half of the 
eighth Christian century (probably in Babylonia). This 
is nearly all wo know of him. Cf Keinaud, Mdmatn* sur 
Flndf* p. 313 j Stein Schneider, ZdtschHft tier DctU&ck&n 
Gesdlschaff, 24, 332. 354. 


ANNOTATIONS . 


3U 


The .KAWstf, p. r VA. has a note 011 him in which there 
is some confusion. The work Cqmpo&itio Sph&mrvm is 
erroneously mentioned among the works of ‘Utarid I bn 
Mohammad, whilst it is apparently identical with the 
work here called Canon, It consisted of two parts, one on 
the sphere and one ou the periods {the yu gm f). Accord- 
ing to Fihrist, he had written two more books, one on the 
division of the sine in hirdajdi^ and another on what is 
derived frortb the are of the meridian. 

Regarding the embassy from Sindh., from which the 
Arabs are said to have got. the first information on Indian 
astronomy, in fact* the two ’works of Brahmagupta, the 
Bra kmmiddkd nfa (Sin t Ik i n d) and th e Kh a y da Middy aka 
{called A r hand), 1 cannot find any historical account in 
t J 1 e Arabic annals. We do not learn anything from I bn 
WMili or Tabari of the presence- of a Sindh i embassy in 
Babylonia in the year 154 (a. I?. 7 J\\ as AlWruni has it, 
nor in the year 1 ;6 (A.D. 773), as AJ Husain I bn Muhammad 
J bn A lad am 1 1 11 ain t a ins ( G iMe m ciste r T So ■ ipL or u n t A mhv. m 
d.e. rebus Indicia lod 3 p, fot), nor of the presence of Hindu 
scholars in Babylonia in the year i6t (a*d. 777)- This 
oul y i s re 1 at.ed by i bn W fid \ h , tl 1 at w 1 l e n A b u 1 abbfi s Saf hi li , 
1 lie fi rs.t . \ bbas i d e K 1 1 al i f , w as d y i tig i n A 1 1 bu r . 1 he re 
arrive d at his co 1 1 v t a 1 1 en 1 bass v f rot u Si n d h t a ,K. 1 36 (aji, 
753). At all events, at the time of the Khali f Alrnaimtr, 
Sindh obeyed this prince, and Is! am had spread not only 
in Sindh, but far beyond it into the adjacent countries, 
both by war and by commerce. There must, have been 
many occasions For petty Hindu princes in Sindh to send 
special missions to the political centre of the Muslim realm, 

W hen V a k u b w rote, th 0 A rhi ml f Kh 1 1 nil akhdt lya ka ) had 
already been translated into Arabic, By whom ? By 
Aifazari ? 

Tn the first fifty years of Abbaside rule there were two 
periods in which the Arabs learned from India, first 
under Alans fir (a. if. 73 3-774}, chiefly astronomy, and 
secondly under II arun (7S6-S0S), by the special in lb fence 
of I lie ministerial family Barm ale, who fill 803 ruled the 
Muslim world, specially medicine and astrology. 

P P 1 jo. Socrates— I do not know the Greek form of this, 
diet u Mr It must be observed that according to the common 


?'4 


A LEER UNI'S INDIA . 


tradition hides of animals were first prepared for vellum 
at Pergammn long aft or Socrates. 

P, l /\ . — On fch e f a bricati on of pap y rus, cj\ W il kins m t , 
M an ners an d C o a tom s of th 0 A neient. Egyptian s i i . [ 1 . 1 80. 

P, 1/3, jLsybr j 5 As fTrer/u' — The source of 

this tradition on the origin of the Greek alphabet seems 
to be certain scholia to the Ars GwmmaUm of Dionysius 
Thrax: r, Immanuel Bekker, Amedota Ormcr* , Berlin, 
1816, voL ii. p. 780 seg. The synchronistic notes point 
more to Joannes Maid as, perhaps these things were 
originally mentioned in the lacuna O 129. 

Asidhm seems to be a mistake for P&lamedes, Agenon 
for Age nor. 

P + 173, Bahmavwd, — Head BttmhmwcL Oilier forms 
of the name are Bd imvdn and Bdinvdk : v. Elliot, “ History 
of India,” i* 34, 189, 369, and the papers of Haig hi the 
Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society/' 1884, p. 2S1 , and of 
Bellasis in the “ Journal of the Bombay branch, yoi. v. f 
1857, p.413, 467. 

For Kmmara, v. note to pp. 17-19. And hrade£a identi- 
fied by Cunningham with Tclmg&na, i\ his ancient Geo- 
graphy of India, 7 " p. 527. 

Bh h iktihuld. — A J be r u n i w rites Baiknh u fa t p rob abl y ( ha f 
of the hhihslm or beggar -monks, Le. the smmmia or Bud- 
dhistic monks, is the Awdmvp&r in ention ed by Alberuni, 
identical with the famous Buddhistic monastery Udxmda- 
puri in M&gadha (?). Of. II. Kern, her Buddimmm imd 
seine GexdiickU in Indian > German by JJ. Jacobi, Leipzig, 
1882, vol, ii. p, 345. 

What Mai v as him is I do not know (Malla-yishaya ?) + 

P. 175. — To the orders of numbers, r.f Weber, Vcdisehe 
Awjaben iiber ZdUheihmff nnd hohe Zahlcn, in Zulsdiri fi- 
de i ■ Ik tti schen Mortj. Qtmllsckqfl , xv, 132. 

Pp, 178, 1 79. — This table has already been published 
by F. Wbpcke, Mem wire mr la Prop<tgation rfes Chiffre# 
Jndum f p* 103 mg* \ A. C. Burnell, “Elements of South 
Indian Palaeography/ 1 ii, ed., p. 77. Compare also E. 
Jaquet, Mode d'Jf&prem&n Symboliqne dts Noin bres Mm- 


ANNOTATIONS + 


SIS 

par kx Indicm, k$ TiMktins d ks Jawmais {EsUrait 
die Journal AsiaUque); Brown, “ Sanskrit Prosody and 
Numerical Symbols/' London, 1869, p. 49 mp 

P, i8l Ov.shap.dhila , — The eunuch is called diandha. 
This seems to be a diminutive form compounded, with the 
wordjntrhsj (Gr. Bidder). 

P. 182, They ma/pnify ike noun* of their language &r t — 
This somewhat enigmatic sentence- seems to have the 
following meaning: — An Arabic word, e.g, farsh (a eea- 
Limmal), is magnified, ix. receives a larger form, by being 
changed into the diminutive form, i.e. huraish (a small 
sea-animal, as a proper noun, the name of the tribe to 
w h ich M 1 1 hamm ad be 1 01 ige d ) . r Fhe d im inn ti v e f 0 1' m serve s 
the pn rposo of magnifying the form of the word : cf Kash- 

shaf to Koran, 106, 2, (not If the 

Hindus magnify their noons by giving them the feminine 
gender, this must be referred to some of the pleonastic 
suffixes, e.g. d f 0 which are added to Indian nouns without 
altering their meaning* In appearance- they are the ter- 
minations of the fern in me gender, in reality euphonic 
changes of the more ancient suffixes al:a and lht t t.*p pa(a ? 
board, by the side of pat. Cf. Horn l e, iS Comparative 
G rammar of the Guudian Languages/ J § 194 seq. 

P+ 183, — An explanation of the Indian chess has been 
published by A> Van der Linde, Qeschichte und LUleraiur 
dts Shwhspkh. 

It 189. Mhdrjuna. — Of. on him A. Weber, Vmrkxunfp n , 
pp h 306, 307 ; H. Ken 3. l)cr Jjwddhisinus und wine GescMchie 
in. Inditm, ii. ;oi ; Beal, Indian Antiquary/’ 1886, 333, 

1 T . 189. Vyddi . — A lexicographer of this name is men- 
tioned in a certain connection with Y it ramaditya by 
Colebrooke, VEseays/ 5 ii. 19. 

1 1 1 90, — JhrMd mala = mkta = red , and a-m da = embliea 
qffkimdu. I do not see how the word could be understood 
to menu oil and humaai blood . 

P. 191* Bkqfadeva. — Of. on this king of .Jlalava, Lassen, 
Indmhe Altcrthtimskande, ili- p. 843 seep 


316 


ALBRRUNVS INDIA. 


P. 192. Vallakhi . — On the pud of tins city, cf. Lassen, 
Indisc fie Altcriku nuk imde y iiL 5 3 2 seq . , and also Nicholson 
and Forbes on the ruins of the place, in “Journal of the 
Royal A si alio H oci ety , 1 ' v oh x i it , [1852 ), p . \ 46, am! vol - 
xvii, ( e86o), Pi 267. 

Pi 196. For it is not nmdgahlc . — This passage agrees 
almost literally with Plato’s Timmts, 2511: — 

Oi 0 fit LI l'Ul r aTTOpOV Kill ii&Lf.pZVl-fJTQl' ytyuVt TO fKer — 

■77 r{ kov Ktlpra eper ofiwv qvtos uv y 

Trap eerier a. 

I \ igj. The mriom tribes of Ike Zanj \ — The traditions 
of the Arabs regarding Eastern Africa have been collected 
by Marcel Devic in his L$ Papa dee Zendje, Paris, 1883, 

P, 1 97, —The configuration of the northern oomt of the 
Indian Ocean seems to have been a favourite subject of 
Alberutsi, for lm mentions if again on p. 270. 

P. (99, — Mdhura, so written by Albernni, is written 
*js* t Mahum, by his elder contemporary Al- ntbl, more in 
keeping with the Sanskrit vowels (Mrdhnvd). 

Alberti ni rec k on 0 ll 1 e d i at ai 1 ce sin ft or sal \k „ regard i « g l h e 
measure of wliich be n n fortunately does imf give accurate 
1 n f 0 r m a bion. A coord ing t o i. 167. 1 y 0 j an a = 3 2 ,000 y ar d s 
= 8 miles; 1 mile = 4000 yards; and according to i. 200 ? 
e farsakh = 4 miles =1 kuroh ; 1 farsakh^ i6,OQO yards. 
Cf also Aloys Sprenger. Die Poet- vnd Rderroidm (Us 
Orients. Yorrede. p. xxvi., who proves that one Arabian 
mile = prater propter 2 OOO metres = 2586 yards, whilst the 
English geographical mile ■ - 202 5 yards. If we, 1 herefore, 
waufc to compare Albernni's distances with English miles, 
we must, reckon — 

1 EnvEihli suite- T*Vlb Arabian mile. 

1 A r.Vi j J iL n 1 n i te - | J ll E-Jn-rl i^.i mi] e. 

1 fttrsnklL = 4 A rn bin j i miles = 3 yj-d iteglkh m lies. 


P, 200. — Albernni gives sixteen itineraries which seem 
to have been communicated to him by the military and 
civil officers of King Mahmud (on some of these roads he 


annotations. 


3 1 7 


had marched wil.li large armies, e.g* to Kanuj and to 
SomaniUha), from merchants and sailors, from Hindu and 
_M u si i rn t r a ve ] ler s . The * tarting- poi n ts of t h ese it in u rarie s 
are Kai i oj , Ma.hu ra (n o w M u 1 1 ra) ? A n hi 1 v il ra ( now Pat tan 
Dliar in Aidlavu., and two less known places* Bart the tem- 
porary capita] of the realm of Kanoj, after the old capital 
had been taken by the Muslims, and a place called BazfLim. 

Those itineraries are — i. From Kanoj to Allahabad, 
aod thence towards the eastern coast of India as far as 
ICiiilct (Conjeveram), and farther south. 2. From Kanuj 
for Rfiri) to Benares T and thence to the mouth of the 
Ganges. 3. From Kauoj eastward as tar ur Kamroop, and 
northward to Kepal and the Tibetan frontier* 4* From 
Kanoj southward as far as Ranav&si on the southern coast* 
3. From Kanoj to BiWma or K a, ray an, the then capital of 
Guzariit. 6. From Muttra to Dhftr, the capital of MiLlava. 
7. From Ba7j1.ua to DMr and L.'jain, 8. From Dhur in 
Mfdavfi towards tin- (lodavarh 9, From Dhiir to Tana, 
on the coast of the Indian Occam 10. From Ba-zftna to 
Soman a tha, on the south coast of Knthiavnr, 11, From 
Auliilvaru- to Tana, on the west coast, north of Bombay. 
12. From 1 Sazan a -vid BhSti to Loharani, at the month 
of the Hindh river. 13* From Kanoj to Kashmir, 14. 
Fro 1 1 1 K anoj to FUt 1 i pat, Atto k, Kl bub G1 1 a?a 1 a, 15. F rom 
i lab rah k 1 1 to Ai l i;l isl 1 tan , th e cspi tal of Kas h u 1 i r . 1 6. From 
Tiz, in Makran, along the coast as far as Setubandha* 
opiJdsite Ceylon. 

Of. the following latitudes raid longitudes^ taken from 
the Canon Mamdieus ; — 


Tree of Fr&yftgti, sg 0 o' lat., iotP 2o P long. ; Kuraha, 26* 1' ini., 106° 
40' long. ; I i'(Li: 2y o' La I:., 106 ' Jo 1 ' long. : Ku-jur&hii, 24° 4' I a 1 . - 106° 
50' Long. ; BiiEilita (?) nr Ki'miyati, 24 3 35' Eat, p e ofy° to' long, ; tho 
00 1! n try Kannakara, 22 3 20' km, 107 11 n' i mg, : Sharvftr, 24“ ip 1aL, 
fo? 0 50' long. ; PiLt 0.11 uutiu, 22 5 30' lat, t joS° 20^ long, ; MunglrS, 22* o' 
Jr-u., iocp r o' long,’ EGgnm, 22° 40' lat lr no* 50" long. . 26° 30' 

lat S| T05 0 50' king.; Dildubl, 25 0 40' hi?.. 102° to' long.; Diihuriftla, 31® 
to' IfLt., ioo° 53' long, ; 3JP go' la tv. tos^ ro # long, : Biol- 

lamiiJa, 23° $o r I at.. 45' long. : Uamlmrjvll, 26° 40" lal,, 85° o' long, ; 
LoLavilni, 24° 40' Lit., S4 0 25' long. ; Dri.lbat, 34° 10' Lai.., 82* 30' lung, ; 
BflAtiyy,, 2ft' 1 40' Int., cpy 0' long. : lljain, 24 0 o f hit. . ioo° 50' long. ; 
Ti/. r aft 1 ’ 1 hr.. o' long; l Ivajidi, 33 s 40' hit,, 95® 50' long. ; Dun- 
pftr, 33 5 43' Lit., 96 • 25’ long.; Tanjore (?;. np o' 3 :it.. 1 1 5 0 0‘ Jong* ; 
I lam es had t.f o' Lai,* n8' u 0' long. ; JahnWar, 39= 50' kit*, 96° 15' long. ; 

lSaS 31 i' 1:0.., gy 55' long* Long] l-mli! 13 rech^iifid from the coast of 
the Atlantic j that of Bagdad ts 70'. 


3 r3 A LEER UNfS INDIA . 

P. 200 . — Barhamshil = BvAhnutiiaiaila = Brahmin's 
rock (?), 

Tree »fPraydga = Allahabad, at the con Alienee of Ganges 
and Jumna, 

In line 20 after \2 farsakh (in the Arabic only 12 with- 
out farsakh) there is. apparently a lacuna. 

lh < '{iryahar .— One expects an indication of Orissa 
( GrlyL'ideya). The word might also be read ftrfyaJt&r, 
I s Ui K fapid ft drd in ean t ? I TrdaHsh a u pe i ll aps = ur* I h m- 
'imhuya. 

Jaufs possessions, Le. the Cola empire; v. also here, 
L 209, and Lassen, ladische A I lei v- ii. 435, iv. 

230 seq, 

P, 200. BdrL — Regarding the situation of tins place (he 
following statements must, be taken into account : — It was 
situated ten farsakh or three to four days' march distant 
from Kanoj towards the east, cast of the Ganges, in the 
neighbourhood of the confluence of the rivers n — and 
L . Jo ^ an d 8 aray u , It w as t wen ty -fi v e farsak J 1 di sta 1 \ t fro 1 1 1 
Qudh. The name Bari occurs also in EIliot-Beames, 
“ Memoirs,” ii. 83, as that of a subdivision of the district 
Agra, 

P, 201. — Ktimril is apparently Kdmarupa and Til vat = 
Tirhoot. The latter is by mistake also written TanvtiU 
Are we to read TiriU? The word is perhaps composed of 
Tari% the name of the nation who lived there, and a word 
like bhakti. 

The empire of Shilahat . — Is this to be identified with 
Sylhet, the province of Assam? 

BhoUshar seems to be hhfmtta-Uvara, lord of the 
than tins, or Tibetans. 

P. 202, — Jiaj-drdha is = hh a rjlh 'a -M dga . 

Tiavr'L — According to a well-known rule of Prakrit 
(Yaramci, ii. 2)* the name Ttdrvvpa (Ptolemy, vh. h 63) 
would become something like TianrL As there is a lacuna 
in the Arabic manuscript, the situation of Hlls place cannot 
be accurately defined, 

Kfmnakavfu — This is probably identical with K(m.ktvr y 
the realm of the Balhara, according to Mas* Mi; v. Elliot, 
“ History of India/ 1 i. 25. 


ANNOTA TIONS . 


319 


P. 202. Baz&m *. — The reading is conjectural For an 
identification v. A. vch geological Survey of India, ii 242, 
For Sahanj/d (BuJumiyd) v. ibid . ii, 399. 

On Guzarfit, the empire of the Gurjjara kings, not 
ide n tical wit h mod em G nze rat, c/ r Cun n ing ham , "An ci e r \ t 
( Geography of India/' p. 3 1 2 szq. ; Elliot, L c. p * 358. 

fFtt'dilra.—This, reading is uncertain. Perhaps all the 
signs of the A rabic text are the name of a place* 

P. 202. — is perhaps identical with Ptolemy's 
Ba^oyoupn (PI vii i. § 63 ). as in some cases an h repre- 
sents an elder tj; ejj. Aalj jus*- Candardlia = Ca ndmbMgd, 
demhar - cfovagfiha, frulahara (Prakrit) = halatf riha. 

R 20.3, Namdmr, Alhpm \ — Are these names to he 
identified with Ninuhr and EWkhpar in Central India? 
Of. (i. Smith, f 4 Geography of British India/' pp. 339, 347, 

P, 203. Sarabha . — This digression of the author’s is 
repeated by Muhammad *Aufi in his story-book : v. Elliot, 
4( History of India/ 3 ii, 202. 

P* 205* — -Anhilv&ra = Anal a vita = modern Pattan in 
Northern Baroda : v, G. Smith, /. 1 . p. 297 ; Elliot, “ History 
of India/' L 363. 

1 At desk = A apuci] of .Ptolemy, vii. L 4. 

Ihhruj = Broach ~ Bo,pvya£o.. : . (I Smith, p. 263, 

IviJtfAvy-ttr is probably identical with ’Jiypwdyapu (Pto- 
lemy, vii. i. § 63)* Two consonants frequently undergo a 
metathesis, if one of them is a liquid. Af/rmugctra has 
become Arginagara, and the g is here represented by an A, 
as in (Jfmtf.fi. rdha = Cttndrahhdgd. 

Lohardni seems to be identical with Awifinpt of 
Ptolemy, vii, l | 2. A metathesis of the middle conso- 
nant;.? has taken place, and b has become h. It is algo 
called Loh&niyyz (i. 316). 

P. 20 . — Jalandhar is the KvAiI'S/hv^ of Ptolemy, vii. i. 
§ 42, C* Smith, p. 207. 

Bt t lid i ■ ar = Vtdl&pu? v . , v . Cunningham, l. c. pp, 135, 133. 
Is it identical w it h m od e rn Phil Ian r ? G . S m ith , p, 208, 


320 


ALBERUNl'S INDIA. 


P. 20 6 , — lOivital — Kef? > isth aJa — KA .pfiitr&Q Ao t ( H eg&s- 
thBnes). now K&poorthala, G. Smith, p. 208. ride zlI.so 
Kaiihal in Elliott “ History of India,” ii. 337, 353. 
Mandak&Mr. Of. Elliot, L c. i. 530, 

P. 206, JCusnarL — I am in dined to identify this river 
w i t h i he Kunh ar (Cl. Sr n i t h , p* 231). Is t.l 1 e ft 1 a h v i — 
Kisheii-tjanga > 

P. 207. -IjAthdird is explained by Cunningl 1am .L r‘ p. 99, 
as Hushkapnra, ilnyislikapura and Baifimula as \dtydka- 
mu I a. 

F. 208, — TdJzmkay is perhaps to be explained as Tak- 
haUmm, like Bhoteshar = Bhantta-l^vara. Of, on Takka, 
Cunningham, /. c* p. 749. 

JidjavaH seems to be identical with. Rajaori (G. Smith, 
p. 2 38). 

P. 208. The voted of India bvtjlm with. Ttz- r — Gj\ with 
this route along 1 the coast that one given by I bn Kkurdadblh 
in Elliot, u History of India/ 5 i* 15, ! 6 ; A. Springer, Dir 
Post- und Deiseroiikn de$ Orients, pp, So-82, 

Mil 11 hit = Skr. m 0 . 1 'h a, P rak ril . in a h t it it , H i n d i v ■■ a iih ; t. 
Horrile, “Comparative Grammar/ 5 § 1 1 6. 

DaihaL — On the identification with Karaei v* Elliot, 
<( History of Indla/ J b 373, Deribal-Sindb is the DiukiiuU 
of Duarte Borbosa, translated by Stanley, p. 49 (Hakluyt 
Society). 


Pp, 208, 209 . — Band — Uaroda, KanMyat = Karri bay, 
Bihmj = B roacln Svhtra 1^ identical with Sir. fiilrpd- 
raka, Stole toy’s ibt-u/HW and the ,S ‘of ala of the Arab?, 
1 ana = Sk r. k it dm L a n d Sd a t ? d n i s pe 1 1 1 ap s = ^f m d hdaa. 
To Silbftra, rf. Bhagvanlal Indraji, L1 Antiquarian Remains 
of SoparaT Szo. f tf Journal of the Bombay branch, 1881, 
jS 82, vol. xv, p, 273. 

V. 209 . — Panjqffldmv seems to be a mistake for some 
older form of the name Tanjore. 

Udoaihtr = Itdinehmu ? On Rama and the monkeys of 
the K isb k in d h a m o 11 n tai r 1 s tf. the f 0 u r tl 1 1 )Ook of the 
Etinitii/aiui. 


ANNOTATIONS. 


321 

P. 2io, — The theory of the rising cold disappearing of 
the Diva islands seems to have been a favourite one of the 
author's, for he explains it in three different places ; r. p. 
233, and ii, 106. 

P, 21 L — Shaukat is explained by Johnson as a tree 
whence bow 9 are made, and midamma means having diffe- 
rent colours. What particular sort of wood this means I 
do not know. 

P. 21 r, — Int.hmr.di must be changed into AnMn:edi f 
“ the old name of the Lower Doab t extending from about 
E taw ah to Allahabad. 1 ” Elliot-Beames, “Memoirs,” ii, 10 1 
Elliot* “History of India,” ii. 124. 

Is Bhdial identical with Ptolemy's IlaraA^piJ ? 

1 J . 213. We have already mentioned y viz, on p. 17. 

l\ 2r 4 . fijpai naLfttrcai) i.r, the ancient division of day 
and night, each in twelve equal parts* of whatsoever length 
day and night happened to be. These hours were different 
in the different seasons of the year. On the contrary, the 
&P*i itTYgupiv<d, probably of scientific origin* are the twenty- 
fourth part of a nychthemei on t always equal throughout 
the course of the whole year* Of. Ideler, ffimdbuch der 
Chronologic, i. 86. 

P. 2 1 4 - fiord .— The Persian nfonhtikra means half part, 
and in astrology one-half or fifteen degrees of a sign of 
the zodiac ; r. ii. 222. 

1 \ 2r 4l L 30. The distance between the sun and the 
degree of the user miens divided by fifteen gives in hours 
the time which lias passed since sunrise ; the dominus of 
the day being at once the dominus of the first hour, the 
rule here given is evidently correct (Srhrnm). 

P. 2 1 5,” For names of planets v. E* Burgess, Sflryff Sidd- 
hunta , pp. 422, 423, and A* Weber, Indisehe Studim, ii. 261 . 

Instead of j^Ailread gjJu! 7 tVcaneya* The word kibutd is 
probably some form of mvasrtmL 

The reader will notice the Creek names held tJAios, dm 

VOL, II. X 


322 ALBF-RUNJ’S INDIA k 

“A prf$ 7 htiiUKt ' jittt ZtjJij tiiphitjU ' Afi'^-.ujriirTi;., LoUO 

Kpaw>$. 

Pp- 21 6, 2 l/ t 2 1 8. KiaAiittrfAtf/'Jrta.- Picfe note to p, 54. 

P. 217. Table. — I shrill here give the names of the 
months as the author probably pronounced them! but. 
cannot be held responsible for the details of the vowel’ 
pronunciation : $etr t hi*hal% jerk mhf>\ hhtvlro^ 

fh/urj, k&rtik, wftnffhir, posh, mdg, ]ydffun r Perhaps most 
of these names terminated in short t< r as manghivo. Of. 
the Hindustani names in Dow son’s “Grammar of the 
Urdu" 1 S 3 7, p. 259, 

The vernacular names of the sums are perhaps to be 
pronou 1 iced : rain , lisJt n a, d hMa , hit i k d t a, a rja m ti t bk ( ign , 
mhiia , p&sha. Utt&Ma, arlcu, dihdkaru, an&hu. 

The d i ffe re n ce bet w e e 11 v e r n aci 1 1 a r a ud. c 1 assical s{ jee ch 
is repeatedly referred lo* Vide. L iS (y. note), 218, 

1\ 2 r il With the iradttwn of the Yish-jimlhanna. After 
these words must be added the following, which 1 have 
o ve rl 00 k ed in t ran slati n g : * 1 c A n d fn rtl ter he ( i. e. V fisn- 
deva) has spoken in the UUd, " I am like I hr. ramnta, i.e* 
the equinox, among the xi,c pad* of the gear ' This too 
proves that the tradition as given an the first table is 
correct," Of, Bhagavad-OiUf x, 35, 

P. 218 + — Con 1 pa re tl 1 e t abl e o f the n off at v 7 r& w 1 1 1 1 hb 
Burgess, Swnja Siddli&nto, p, 468* 

I\ 219. — Vardhamihira—Vule note to p + 54. 


I 1 . 220* — The Greek names krit/tt KpuU, (dodnrii ro.fw, 
jihtum BiSvgoij jj&rthui irap&t rus, Ac., are declared to be 
not generally known. Cj. A. Weber, htdiwhts Sindh ti. 
259, Instead of jitn read cetthu. 

V . 222. Galenas. I have not been able to verify tins 
quotation about Asclepius in the Greek works of Galenus. 

P. From the belief of the nations v:ho lived in 

undent times in and round Babel, 4 !v. -That information 


ANNOTATIONS . 


3=3 


to which the author here refers was probably derived 
from the books of the Manicb^ans, 

P. 223, Plftto * — This quotation is not identical with 
Tim 3 6 B-P, but apparently derived therefrom, it 
runs : — 

TtiFtTtjP opt ri/r £ Sh it uct l 1 ■ TTtUTav hut a frTfKos <r^/.tras 

p&njv it phi /dcnpy k.t.X, 7Hj 1 r S' ivrXs cr^iWs hrra 

uTtr/OVy, tf.T.A. 

ty. note to p, 33. 

Pp. 223, 224, — On ifr'tfftflKryifjflfo and jPn/fsa. u notes to 
PP* 153= l $4‘ 

P. 223, «- f Arufdthtif/t . — The author does not 

take the theories of these men from their own works ; he 
only knew them by the quotations in the works of .Brah- 
magupta. He himself states so expressly with regard to 
Aryabhata, Of. note to p. i$6, and the author, i. 370, 

P. 225, 227. Bcdahhadm . — Vub note to p. 13 6. 

P. 226, Aristotle. Of. his Pkys, vii. j 3 and Mdtqih* xiL 
8, 24* 

P. 226. Ptolemy, — Of. the edition of Halm a, Paris, 
1 S i 3 ? tom a h p* 2 ; 

rlf fit V Tifi TiZv oktuv TTpdJTTjy TTjG'UTOF aiT'tQV, CD T fcg 

Hif-tX tA ua - A o v 1 ■ cjcAaju/ifavat, diifwiTQV teal d kiwjtov uu 

yffpr^ru, fait ru tdi'tou f^Tqreor eft 5 us ^oAoyiKtu'j arw :roi 

irqn Tt\ ficT^poTfAta roil Kturpov r^g Toi.r.uV^y erepyettiy rmj- 
i‘. 1 ■ jLVVO it^i jruflflTTflf TO?l r fuV^IJTWl- 1 

s f •* 

0 C'-cr tw r„ 


P. 226, JbArtfmes — Vide note to p. 36. 1 

have not been able to find this quotation in the Greek 
text. 


Pp, 228, 229,- -The author repeatedly complains of the 
great verbosity of the Sanskrit caused by the necessities 
of the authors, who will only write in metre, and require 


ALBERUNFS INDIA. 


324 

a great number of synojayms, in order that one word may 
fit into the metro if others will not. Cf, 1 . 2 1 3, 2 I 7 , 299. 

1 *. 229. For those men who, &e. — This is the only passage- 
in which Alter uni clearly speaks of his Pandits* Appa- 
rently he tiled hard to learn Sanskrit, but could not. suc- 
ceed on account of the difficulties of which he himself 
com plain r : and he studied Indian literature in the same 
manner as the first English scholars iu Bengal, by the 
help of native Pandits, 

J\ 230. Table, Cf. ICxknu-Pardoa. ih 209, where the 
fifth and seventh earths are called mahalata and -ptt tdhu 

Also the Vrlttv-Purana (ed RajeiidralfilaMitra, Calcutta, 
[880) off e fs some w h at di ffe rent names, viz. ala I a m f s h ta- 
lavt, : vUakm.-, gabhasUdavi, mahdtalam t srUalam , /CMlam, 
and liHshna-hhaurtVOt^ pdndUi raktaui, tfarhan q fflti- 

■mi yarn, sm par^a (vol. up. 391, v. 1 1-14)* 

P. 231. The spiritual htivf/s^ dk.— This list of names is 
literally taken from Vdt/u-I'tirdm, vol. i. p. 391, v. 1 5- 
394, v.' 43 {Adhytlya, 50). 

I J , 231. Johannes Qrunmatkm . — I have not been able 
to find ill is quotation in the Creek text, nor the verse ol : 
Homer, Vide note to p, 36. 

P. 23 t. Plato. — CL Tuner 41 a : — 

(hoi fkuiv &i r ey*> ihjfuavpyhs irtn'/ffj rf epywi- 1 , u ijior 
ytv&fitvn. >i\vTfi y i 0 £ Aoi-to? ■ rh p.kv ore m) Btdcv jt i7 1 ■ 

Ai-ror, to yc *.iTf 1 ■ mAtus s^otr# h> kcc i €\ov tu Aeeiv 1! 0 c Acer 
im .:x iM ofi. 


V. 232, The seven I okas. Vide ii. 

226, 227- 

V. 232. J 7 /-c commentator of the, hook of PcdanjaH. — Cf 
note to p, 27. 

Pi 233. This remark was already made on 

p. 210. 


A NNOTA TIONS « 


3*s 


P. 235. — Ftr/rj the d rfpffi-s and seas, 

ii. 109. 

K 2 3C . — Lokdlol n- ? which means a -noi^jalh^ring place. 
Apparently the author had not quite understood the nature 
of the compound loka-afaln, i.e, irorftf ?m 7 not -n ■arid . 

1 \ 237; FisA j? u-FiU'dntf ,, — The first quotation seems to 
correspond to iu 21 1 - 2 I 3, the second to ii* 204, and the 
third (on p + 238} to iL 225-227. 

Seshalchya is apparently a mistake for Scsha-dkhpa, i.e> 
having the name of Jseshct* 


P* 24c. — The story of Visv&mitra’s attempt at creating ei 
second world is taken from IMmdyancij i. chaps, lvii. lx. ; 
but here Lhe king is called Trixaulra-, 

P. 240. — On Sripala, r . note to p. 164. The city of 
Multan is in various places mentioned by the author m 
such a remarkable maimer as makes me think that he 
knew it, and that be had lived there for some time. 
When King Mahmud, a. II. 408 (A.b. 1G17), had returned 
from Kliwuii^m-Kliiva after the conquest of the country, 
arid had carried along with him the princes of the con- 
quered J 10 use of Mcdmftn, many scholars (among them 
AJberuni'h officers, and soldiers, did he send some of these 
(among them Alberuni) as state prisoners to Multan, 
which he had conquered years before ? In this way, nine- 
teen years later (a. it. 427), the princes of the family of 
A It nnt ash. who had ruled Khwh.rizm after the Ma'mfmis, 
were treated by Mahmud's grandson, Majddd, who sent 
them as state prisoners to Lahore. At all events, ir is 
perfectly certain that Albert ml cannot have been it] favour 
with King Mahmud, or lie would have dedicated one of 
his books to him. Cj\ tiacliau. Zur dltedm Gcwkiehfc und 
Ckronohnjie ton KJuv&rizwi t i, pp. 16, 2S. 

P. 24O . — Alja ih/tni is one of the fathers of Muslim litera- 
ture on geography and travels in the eastern part of the 
Kb aliph ate, minister of one of the Sftnmni kings of Central 
Asia towards the end of the ninth Christian century. His 
work is most extensively quoted, but has not yet come to 


A LB ER UN PS INDIA. 


326 


tight Of. Aloys Sprenger, Die Pod- und BeisermtUit des 
Orient 8 , Vorrede, p. xviu 

P. 241. When Brahman wanted, d m c . — -On the division 
0 f Brahman, on Dhruva, of Vuhmt-Iht-rdn<i f i, pp, 
(04, 1 61 seq . 

P. 242. 1020 to 1030 stars . — This is the number of stars 
e n u merate d in the s fcar-ea. ta logo e of' Abd u rra h m an S 1 1 i i 
( ef Schj el 1 eru p , Description d es Si oiko jl :oes } xcr Ah v f L 8 1. 
Petersburg, 1874)* which Alberuni has transferred inLo his 
Cam n Mas ad km. 

Should fAtm rsim breathe and receive, tf :t. — I am not quite 
certain whether T have found out the right meaning of 
these words or not. 

P. 243, The ctfriutimtaior BalaMwdra. th.— Vide note to 

p. 156. 

P. 245, 1 + jo, — T he values here given correspond to the 
greatest declination of 24 So at= 1397' is the sine of 
24°, ET = 29 S' the versed sine of 24°, and tii the difference 
between this latter and the radius 343 S' (Schram). 

w 

1 \ 243,1 12. Ka rdajdt . — TJ 1 e w ord ka 1 d aja seem r t o be 
derived from the Persian hatda = fyui, meaning a m/iornL 
The radius is equal to 343 S minutes of the periphery, which 
are called ko/rdajdt. Cf* i. 273, and iL 203, 

P. 246, 1, — Read 24 0 instead of 23 0 * 

P. 246* Avyahhaia of Kmumapwm is repeatedly quoted 
by A 1 ber uni. IT e m e ntio 11 a th e or de re of the mini be r s f r 0 ( n 
ayutmh to prrapadma, i. j 76. Here he speaks of the 
height of Mount Mem, on the longitude of Kurnkshetra, 
l 316 (where lie quotes Pulisa and Prithusvamiu), on the 
day of the Devas and that of the Pitaras ; i. 330* He calls 
the casitaka xinadL L 335. Prom a book of his it is quoted 
that 1008 wluryitgas arc one day of Brahman ; half of ih is 
utmrpi.oi Y the other half avasarpint (Jaina terms), i. 371. 
Unfortunately I cannot read the title of this bonk ; the 
signs may be^-iJo!^ and it must remain uncertain whether 
it is an Arabic word with the article or an Indian one. 


ANNOTATIONS. 


327 


A 1 ber 11 u i war n s th e re ad e r 11 ot t o con f on nd th i s A ry abb at a 
with the elder scholar of this name, to whose followers he 
belongs In this place (i 246) Alberuui does not seem to 
have used a work of Aryabhata junior himself, but to 
have taken these words of Ids from a- commentary of 
Halabhadra, We learn here that the book had been trans- 
lated into Arabic, but do not learn which particular work 
of Balabhadra’s, Was it his commentary on the Kftanda- 
kk ddyaka 0 i' B ra 1 1 m a g a pt a '? J- r ide not e to p. 15 6. T b at 
Albenmi had made a new edition of the Arabic version of 
the Kim ttihtkhudyakn is known (i\ edition of the Arabic 
original, pref. p. xx.) : perhaps he had also procured him- 
self an Arabic translation of iSalabhadra'e commentary. 
(■/. on this younger Aryabhata, Kern, Brhai Safihitd, pre- 
face, pp. 59, 60 T and Dr, BMu Daji, ^ Brief Notes 011 the 
Age and Authenticity of the Works of Aryabhata, Vara- 
liamihira/* &c,, p. 392, Alter on i always calls him Arya- 
bhata of Kusumapura (Patna), to distinguish him from his 
elder namesake, 

P. 247, SvMib&m, — This seems to be so mo vernacular 
f on r 1 for Nit Hi a tat. Vuhn u^Purd n a t ii , 127. liik sh aba m 
— Kikshaval (?). 

1\ 248, Tift- Vuhnit-Piirdtm my&i — I do not find I his 
quotation in the Vishnu- Purdna, Of. V. Ik ii. 117, 

P. 2^8, Tb. covumutator of the book of PaiaMjaH . — 
Vide note to p. 27, 

P. 249. AlmhishakH. — Vide note to pp. 6, 7, 

lb 249. Ardiyd and Girnagar (?) are apparently the same 
mountains which the A vesta calls Kara her emit i and tacra. 

11 254. Vi&h n u-Purdn cl — The quotations from the 
V. P. given in this chapter are found in ii. p. 191 

I 1 . 254. — Jhmm, as here the river Yamuna is called, 
corresponds to the Prakrit form prescribed by Vararuci 
ii, 3, viz. Jauwd. 

P + 257. Vdi/it^PiLfdna . — The names of the rivers are 


A LB BRUNTS INDIA m 


328 

found in the 45th Adhy&ya> vol. i. pp. 349-3 JO* The 
or da i' of enumeration of the mountains in the Sanskrit 
text h this j Pari yfi.tr a, Riksha, Vindhya, Sahya* Malaya, 
Mahendra, SuktL 

"V * 97, 

vedastnritir vedavaii vritradhni siiidlntr eva ca 
varnus^ can d ana caiva satira malt at i tatlii'L- 

V* 98. 

parfL carmmanvati caiva vidi^i vetrayaty api 
siprfi. hy avanti ca tafcha pariy 7 l t rasi'ay a.].i smrital^ 

V, 99. 

xsono mahfmadai caiva narco mada sumabadrimiA 
man d Akin! dalflrnft ca citrakuta tathaiva ca. 

V. TOO. 

taniasa pipy alii sroni karatoya piiuciku 
nilotpalfi vipa&t ca baujulfi bfiluvahini, 

V. 10 1, 

site raja iuktimati makruiifi. tridiva k ram fit 
rikshapadut pr as fit As tfi nadyo mamnibhodakAlj, 

V. 102. 

l&pi payosbni nirbbandhyu in ad r A ca nish&dha n&di 
v ei iv a yaitara 11 i cai va si f tv n.h u ],l k u in ud vati . 

V, 103* 

toy a caiva malt A garni durgfi ca hitabsHIA t.athfi 
y i nd h y apadapr as fitfls ca n ady ah pn n y aj a I a 1 1 s u b b a !,i * 

Y. 104. 

god a vail bhinwathi krishnA vaiiiy atha vahjulA 
tnligabbadrA suprayogu kfuweri ca tat ha, pagn 
daksh inapathanady ae tu aahynpadud yinihsiituh* 

Y* 105* 

kritamala tamm varna pushpajaty utpalavatl 
inalayfibhijatus tfi n ad yah sarvAh sitajalAh £ublj&h. 


ANNOTATIONS « 


3 2 9 


V* 106. 

trisama ritiiludya ca ikslmlrl tridiva ca ya 
Jtliiglilini vaihsadharu mahend ratanay ah grapitfilu 

V. 107. 

rishiku. snkumuri ca in an dag a inaiidavahinl 
kiipa palasini caiva suktimatprabhavuh sraritul;* 

1\ 259, — Very similar to this enumeration of rivers is 
that in the Vdyii-Ftmina, adhyaya 45, vv. 94-108 : — 

V, 94, 

piyante yair ini ft nzidyo gaiiga slndhinsarasvati 
sat&drus candrabhugM. ca yam u d a sarayiis tatlm, 

V. 95. 

iruvati vitastu ca vipiWL devikfi knlifth 
go in at i dliutapapa ca bfthuda ca drishadvath 

V* 96. 

kaustki ca tritiya tu ni scull gaudaki tat.liii 
ikshu lohita ityet;!- h ilia av at pa d an i h sritah + 

The following verse, already given in the note to p. 273, 
mentions the rivers flowing from the Pariy&tra. 

I\ 239- Vtda&mi . — Write Vidd&in-L 

P. 259p Kayabixh* -The realm of Kuyabish is here 
identified with KiibnL The signs may be read Kth/abUk 
or Juhffthshi ; only tiie consonants are certain. This re- 
minds one forcibly of the name of the Judo- Scythian king 
Ka&tjthes. A dental sound between two vowels may in 
later forms be represented by a y, as ejf. in Biycdtu = 
Vitadd. Or is the word to be combined with Panin i/s 
Kapisld (Gapissem in Pliny) ? Cf. Panin i and the geo- 
graphy ot’ Afghanistan and the Panjab in " Indian Anti- 
quary/' r 872, P 21. 

P, 239. Ghikmk , — This pass (* ahaba in Arabic) is also 
mentioned in Elliot, History of India,” iL 20 , 449 
(<■■ hurak). 


33 * 


ALBBRUNPS INDIA . 


I\ 259. Below the tom* of Tffrvdn . — It is mentioned in 
the maps at about the distance of eight miles, as the crow 
flies, north of Tschirikar. The road from Anderab to 
Par van has been sketched by Sprenger, Pod'*- und liciae- 
rouien, map m\ 5. 

P. 25 9. The- river# Nur and Kb d, — Head Kind instead 
of lyirfi. Cj\ Elliot, L c. ii. 465, 

P. 260. — Bh&tul seems to mean a sub-ill inula van coun- 
try between the Peas and the Satlej. It occurs only 
here and p. 211 (together with Antarvedi). Masudi 
(Elliot, * l History of India, 5 s L 22} mentions it as the name 
of one of the five rivers of Pan jab. 

The union of the seven rivers, — This tradition, apparently 
refers to the haptet, hmdu of the A v ast.fi , Vemdidad i. 73. 

P. 261. Mat&ya-Purdna . — Sot having this book at hand, 
I give the corresponding passage from the Y&yu-Purdna^ 
adhyaya 47, vv. 38-58 : — 


V, 38. 

nadyah srot-as tu garigayah pratyapadyata saptadb a 
imlini brad ini caiva ptivani caiva praggati. 

v. 39. 

siti cakslniH ca sin dims oa praticirii dEsam asritab 
saptami tv anngi tisam daksliiiiena bbagirathi, Ac, 

V, 42, 

upagacchanti tali sarvfi. yato varshati v us avail 
si rlnd.hr fin kuntahins cits fin yar varan yavasan drub in. 

V- 43- 

r n si 1 ft 1 j aril 6 ca ki nun d am sea an gal 0 ka varai h s ca ye 
kritvfi dvidhu sindhnmarnm eitS 3 gat pasdntodadbith* 

V. 44. 

at ha ein am arums eaiva mtilgarian sarvamfilikfm 

sad h rims tnsbiraihs tampukan pallia van daradin sakin 

etnn janapadin cakshuh sruvayanti gate Viadltirii, 


ANNOTATIONS. 


dar ad AiinS ca. saky mlnin gandhariln varapan k rad an 
s i vapa n ran i 1 1 d ral 1 Lti 1 v ad n i it ft S ca v i savj ay an . 

V. 46. 

gain d h av a 1 1 rand h rakarak a n b b ra m ara Vj h 1 raroh ak a n 
i 11 n a rn uk h 4 ifrs cord h v a in ari Un s id d b aca ran asevi t a n . 

V. 47. 

gandharvAn kinnaran yak shun r ak sb 0 vidy a d 1 1 ar or agan 
k alii pag rai naka] hi caiva paradan sigap&n khasam 

V, 

kit’itlaiiis ca, pulind&ml ca karufj eabharatlai a pi 
pa.nci'i lakasimiitsy unis ca nrngad haiigam B tathaiva ca. 

y. 49- ^ 

brail mot. tar Jims ca yangiimsca ttimaliptnms tathaiva ca 
etan jan&padan fiiyyan gangfl bhavayate aubham 

V. 50. 

tat ah pratibatfi vindhya praviabta dafesliiiiodadhini 
tatas eft ’Mad mi pniiyft pracinabhiinnkbi yayam 

V. S r. 

plftvayanty upabbogftriii ca nishadan&fi ca pit ay ah 
ghi varan rishakihtiiS caiva tathft nilamiikMn api 

V* $ 2 . 

keraktn uahj-rakaniams ca kirfttim api caiva hi 
katodaran vivarpams ca knmS.mii ovarii abb ushitiin. 

v ; S3 ' , 

sft mai l dal e gam 1 3 d r asy a t iro hi 1 iitft ’ n u p i'l r v ata l.i 
talas tu pftvani caiva prdcim eva diian'i gat a. 

V. 54. 

apatbin bhftvayanti 3 ha indradynmnasaro pi ca 
tatha kharapatMiii* caiva indrajafikupatban api. 


33= 


ALBERUNI’S INDIA. 


V. 5$. 

m ad h y en j cly an am aska. ran k uthapra varan A n y ay an 
ind rad vipasam 1 1 dre tu pray U b i a i ava n odad ] i i 1 h . 

V* 56- 

tat as ca nalini cm. 'gat prummasaih j a vena tu 
tomarau bhav&yantl ha bamsamargati sabHhukan. 

V. 57* 

purvan desaihs ca sevanti bhittva £& bahudha girin 
kamapra varan&riui caiva prapya ca svamukhan api* 

y 53 . ^ 

sikat&parvatamaran gatva vidyudharim yayan 
nemimandalakoshthe tu pravishfA si mahodadhirii. 

P. 262. V'i&hnu-Pttr&Tia * — Tb is quotation occurs V. J\ 
ii. [Q2> Instead of Anutapata, Shikhi, and Karma, read 
1 m f tapii%> Sikh % and Kra-mn. 

P. 263. C reeded, — This word seems to prove that Albe- 
rtmi already adhered to the dogma ol orthodox Islam, that 
the Koran had been created by God from all eternity, and 
had been preserved on a table in heaven before God 
revealed it to mankind by the mouth of his prophet, 
Muhammad. 

P, 264- Ibti Aim tthtffd ( r Abdallah) and * Ahdctlkarbti 
arc also mentioned in the author’s Chronology of Ancient 
Nations. n pp, 80 and 108. 

J\ 26 A For /his the aMromnursreqvite ihmi t th \~ When 
writing these criticisms, the author probably thought of 
Brahmagupta* Cf. the chapter on eclipses, ii, no seq. 

P. 267. Yam-aft oil, Lanka, — Of. the same names in 
S U rya-Sid&h&n l ft } xii. 38-40, 

P. 268. Aryabhata, Vamktha, TAta< -AH 1-1 ie astrono- 
mers quoted in this context were not. known to the author 
from their own works, but only through quotations in the 
works of Brahmagupta, Also the words of Varahamibira 


ANNOTATIONS. 


333 


(here and p* 272) seem to he quotations of Brahmagupta 
(evidently p< 276), although they possibly might have been 
taken from Yarithamihira’s PaftcamidhdiiiiM' Pulisa, of 
course, must be excepted, as his Siddh&nla was in the 
hands of Alb&rttni, and in course of being translated by 
him. 

P* 271. Amarn-miij J r awasvtt &c * — Of on these four 
cities \ 1 Ni mi- l\ir tin a., ii. 240. 

P + 273, Apti t-j i urtiiia-htirria , ■ — -I do not see how the 
Arabic signs must be read. The translation of the term 
means the true ones who follow the Fur dm* 

T\ 274, 1. 37. — TA being the sine of 3J 0 is equal to 225',. 
its square to 50,625 ; tu the versed sine of 3^ is f s and 
m = radius - in = 343 .S' — 7 = 343 1 (Stihram). 

P. 275, 1. 3, — The following calculation seems to have 
been made very negligently, for there are several faults in 
it. The radius 795 0 27' iff is correctly determined, for 
employing the ratio 7 : 22 between diameter and circum- 
ference, we are indeed led to this number. Rut already in 
the determination of Be there is a fault, Alberuni seems 
to have converted o ' f 42" into yojanas, instead of con- 
verting o f 45* ; for 360 s being equivalent to 5000 y 0 jauas, 
we get for I [3 yojana, 7 krosa, 444 J yards., for i f I krosa, 
3407 1 1 yards, and for l" 1 233 j yards, arid reckoning with 
those numbers we get O CJ J* 42", and not o f 45% which 
corresponds to 57,035 yards, Further, the rule ho makes 
use of is completely erroneous j it is not true that the 
relation between the height of two observers is the same 
as the relation between the sines of their respective 
fields of vision. If this were the case, we should have 

sen a— 1 : sin a sec fi — 1 : Bin fh or the quotient ^ \ 

sm a 

would be a constant for every value of «, which, of course, 
is not. the case. Rut even with hifl incorrect rule we 
cannot find the numbers he has found. This rule is 
4 yards : sine of field of vision — 57,035 yards : 225^, so one 

A X 2 ** \ 

would have sine of held of vision = ‘ h : but lie linds 

57°35 J 


334 


A LB BRUNTS INDIA. 


the sine of the field of vision equal to o of f which 

corresponds to TOC! ° , and not to Therefore Albe- 

57035 57035 

runi seems to have reckoned 4 x 225 = 1000 instead of 900, 
Also the length of each degree is not quite correct ; it is 
not t 3 ynjana, 7 krosa, 3 3 3 A yards, but. as above stated, 13 
v 0] an a, 7 k r 0 sa 444 > ya r r i 1 s. Last! y , i f w e co n v e r 1 by m f • an s 
of this fmmfrrr o : o' i fr yf ir into yards, we find 129;-- yard?, 
so that the 29 J ;! yards he speaks of seem to have been 
arrived at by an erroneous metathesis of the original 
ciphers (Sehram). 

P. tyy.— Pram* — Of. on this measure of time here i. 
334 , 33 S- 

lb 278, — Th* mhfihihmU of Mount Mr-rtt, &e.. t till ox a 
7 cestwa n / mot io 0 , al in o st t den tical wi 1 3 j S A n/a - Sit I d, ho 0 ta t 
xlL 5;* 

lb 28 L There in a i dor if of an tnirimf t'reevk. &c M — Pro- 
bably taken from Porphyry’s book 011 the opinions of the 
most prominent philosophers about the it at me of the sphere. 
Vide note to p. 43, 

1 \ 2 89* Th e ( Ifedc* d etern 1 1 > a v /, d-r r — T he au th or b as gl vt n 
a description of the winds, according to the Arabian and 
Persian views, in his ES Chronology of Ancient Nations,” 
PP* 340 , 34 r * 

P. 29 Th Afri, Uoksha, dr . — The legends here referred to 
are found in Vishipv -Fa rdna, i * i 5 3, ii. 21 xeq. 

P. 294.^ — The Rishi Bhumna-JsoSa (in\ globe) is only 
mentioned in this place, and not known to me from other 
sources* 111!" work, the title of which is not given, seems 
to have treated of geography, 

P, 29 3 + So ui. u ora (?). — Thus the manuscript seams to 
have it. The signs may also lie read Nsnnudd. 

P. 297. Kttroiarokra . — Vide on this term a note of If. 
Kern, Brihof Stt'ihhi/d, translation, to the title {htLrman- 
htidijo) of chap. xlv. 


ANNOTATIONS. 


335 


1 \ 298, Uipala f a native of Kashmir . — Vide note to 

p. 137. 


P. 2 q8 h — St 071 e- to we r. i.e, tl \ e A ( 0 iros jr vpy 0$ o f V C olemv , 

vi 13, 2. 

P + 2 Qg . — Bus hang, it place near Herat, to the west. 
Sakilk&nd, also Iskilkand, is identified with Alexandria 
bv Elliot. “ History of India" i 336, note I. Perhaps it 
is identical with Ely a A w 6 kis of Stephanns. Of Droysen, 
Ge&t'kieJde dea He lien iii. 2, 217. 

I } . 299. — This extract from Vdyu-l y )f-edna is found in 
adhyuya 45, voh i. pp, 3 50 - 3 5 3 7 vv. 1 eg- 136. Albernni 
gives tiie directions in the following order: ea^t. south, 
w est, n orth ■ whi 1st t he S ansk ri t text h as t li ts order : n ort h # 
east, south, west. In comparing the following text with 
Albenmi, the varultts lediou is given in the footnotes of the 
Calcutta edition can sometimes be used with advantage, 

V. 109. 

k 1 1 r li pi* ficat u It fill v M oai va s aj fi fi gal a l L i 

Yi no, 

sftrascniL hhadrakuru bod hah satapathesvaraih 
vatsS.li kisashtu knlyfis ca kimtalab kfiaikosalfih. 

V. 1 1 r. 

nth a pa os v fi ti I aft gas ca m agad h as c a y r i kai h sal 1 a . 

V. iij* — N orth. 

v fib H k a. v ad 1 1 ad ] 3 an a s ca a 1 A j i rah k a t at o v ak ah 
apart r as ca sftdra.* ca pah lavas carmakhandLkali. 

Y. 1 16, 

gandhara yavanas oatva sindhusaiiv irabhadr&kfih 
sakA brad a lj kulindfis ca parita hSrapurikfih, 

Y. 1 17. 

ran ] at a rad d 1 1 1 ik a ta k a l.i k ek ay a d a sa muni k ul,t 
kskatriyopamvefiiS ca vai^yaindrakuhnii ca. 


33$ 


ALBERUNPS INDIA . 


V, i iS. 

kamboja d a ra.'la.s Galya varvarAli priynlankikal.t 
pinfis caiva taehfirS.fi ca palilava vahyatod&rfth, 

V, 1 1 9. 

afcreyui ca bhat'advajah ptastbala* ca kagernkah 
lampakft a t an a p si 3 caiva p'idtkfi juhiidaih sab a 

V, 120, 

apagfts ca 'liniadriy ca kiratainiii ca ji'ttayali 
tom fi tat liaihsamargu^ca kfismirfis tangaiifis tat lift, 

V. I j ] . 

culikfL* ca huk&$ caiva purnadarvas tathaiva ca 
V. 1 22 .—- East. 

aiidliravfikah aujarakti antargiri valiirgirab 
tathfi pravai'i gav afi gey a tnMadil mfrlayarttinah. 

V. 123. 

b rail m ottarfih pra v i j ay fi bl l ftrgavfr. gey a mar tba kfi h 
pragjyotigMs ca mnndfli ca yidehfi-s tfimaliptakah 
mil la m agar] liagov in d fi 1 1 . 

V* 1 24 b, — South. 

paridyas ca keralfi,s caiva caul y ah knlyfts tat.haiva ca 
sefeukfi tmi&hikiU caiva kumamt vanavusikfih 
1 n ah fi rfist 1 1 rfi. m fi h i ? h ak ft h kal i Vigi'is ca. 

Y. 126. 

abtrah sail a cat ’shikfi iltavyfis ca varSs ca ye 
p 11I in d ril v indh y a m fi likft v ai d a rb ] 1 » d a rtdak a i l.i sal t a. 

V. 127. 

pi n i k fi. m an n i kas cai va as m ak k h 1 logavardd h an fi \i 
n air 11 ik a h kn nt alii an d lira 11 d b h id a nal aka t ik fi h , 

V. T2S, 

dflkshinatyaH ca vaidt sfi aparaiis tan iiibhodhata 
^urpakarfili kola van fi durg&h kal ita kail 1 sail a. 


ANNOTATIONS . 


337 


Yt i2g , 

pule vis ca gorillas ca rupaeus t&pasaih salm 
tatM turasitas caiva sa-rvC caiva paraksharfth. 

Y. E30, 

mis iky a. 'dyM ca ye cun ye ye caivi ’ntaranarmadah 
bMnukacchrnh samaheyfth sahasfi sfisvatair apL 

V. 131, 

kacchiyui ca surtkhtrds y ca ana tit as ca Tvudaih sab a, 
Y. 132. — Wist, 

mu lavas ca karftshils ca mekalu&co Tkalaih sab a 
nttamarna dasarnus ca bhoji.li Irish kind hakaih saha, 

V. 133- 

fcoaalik kosalils cm mi traipura yaidikas tatM. 
turn uras tLimbnnls caiva shatsura rMhadbaih saha> 

V . 134. 

anupis tundikerai ca vitihotra by avantayab* 

V. 135, 

nigarh ar i h aift sa in fi rguh ksli u pan is tail gan i \h khasa h . 
Y, 136. 

kinlapravaraniis caiya hiinft clary all sahudaka h 
trigarttA malay&g caiva kirfitus tamasaih saha. 

Pp. 300-303. — This extract from Yardhuimhira's Nam- 
Mid is taken from chap. xiv. Of. the text in Kernes edition, 
p. 8y t the -mridas ledionis, pp. 1 2-14, and liis translation 
in f< Journal of the Asiatic Society,” 1870, p. 81-86. The 
number of discrepancies between these two traditions is 
very considerable, hi many places Albernni and Ids Pan- 
dit may not have read their manuscript with sufficient 
accuracy ; in others, the Sanskrit in amxticript- tradition may 
exhibit blunders arising from a not uncommon confusion 
of characters that are much like each other. The Arabic 
man user ip t d-radilion is on the whole correct, but the 
VOL. IT. Y 


33 & 


ALBERUNI'S INDIA. 


copyist of the Arabic text, too, in ay have contributed in 
some case to increase the number of errors. To souse 
Indian names he has added, explanatory glosses, e/f. Sau- 
vira f ix, Mfiltan and Jahmvar. It is a pity he has done 
this so sparingly, 

P. 303. Ynfa&fo and Alfamri* — Vide notes to pp, 169 
and 165. 

P + 304. — ■AM-Mdshar i author of many honks, chiefly on 
astrology, died a.h. 272 = aj>. 885, He is known to the 
Middle Ages in Europe as Albumaser. 

Ik 306. Cupola of the earth , — If this expression has not 
been derived from the Indian, the question arises, Who 
introduced it among the Arabs ? Was it Alfazari ? 

P, 30 6. ii&oaua the demon, — The author refers to the 
fifth and sixth books of the Mdmdyctna t which he apparently 
did not know, or he would not have called it, as he con- 
stantly does, the dory of Rmaa and lldmAymia ; n. pp. 307, 
310, and ii. 3, 1 have not succeeded in deciphering the 

name of the fortress ; the A rabic signs cannot be combined 
with the name Trikuta- 

F. 308, — A straight line from Lanka- to Merit is also 
mentioned, on p, 3 ] 6. The first degree of Inngitude f accord- 
ing to the Indian system, is also described in JSvrya-Sld- 
tfhunta, b 62. Instead of Kurnkshetra the author seems 
to have pronounced Kurukketm. At all events, he did not 
write a sh. Therefore the compound Jcsh must have under- 
gone the Prakritic change into Irfch, as in yol'hhai'o=pnsh- 
fowa (Vararuci, in, 29). 

\\ 309. These wares are deposited, &c. — This kind of 
commerce with savage nations is the same as that carried 
on by Carthage with tribes 011 the west coast of Africa ; t\ 
Herodotus, iv, 196; M filler, Geographi Gnm Minoresfi* 
p. xxvii,, and Meltxer, GreeJnehie dev Kftrtfotgev 7 p. 232 
and 506. 

It 3 icv — Lttdf/t dhthU is identified with the Nicobar 


ANNOTATIONS . 




Islands by A, Sprenger, Post- und Beia&rifateto dcs Orient^ 

p. 88+ 

T\ 3 1 2, ZMdtttara. — Farfethe rule for its computation in 
i. 60, 6 k 

Alarkand t Ibn Tdrik> — Of. note to p, 169. 

P. 312. — Al-arkand is identified by Alberuni with the 
lOt a n dakh My aka of Brahmagupta (iL 7). In another 
place (ii. 48) the author identifies the word a r Land with 
ffhtuyana. Both of these identifications can hardly be 
justified phonetically, and therefore I prefer to suppose as 
the Sanskrit original of A r hand a word like Aryahha^da^ 
whilst apparently the word harhm (title of an Arabic 
calendar, ii. 52) is identical with a hargma. 

The author complains of the Arabic translation of 
Al-arkand being a bad one, and at some time of his life 
(probably after the composition of the Indica) ho has pub- 
lished a new and amended edition of this translation. Cf. 
preface to the Arabic edition, p* The Arabic Arkand 
lias not yet been discovered in the libraries of Europe, 
The author has borrowed from this book the following 
notes : — (1) 1050 yojanas are the diameter of the earth 
(i, 312, 316). (2) The latitude of XT j ai n is 22 0 29', and 

that of Aim an sura 24° 1' (i. 316). hi ere the author states 
that also Yakub Ibn Tarik had quoted the book, but 
erroneously. (3) The straight shadow in Loharanii is 5^ 
digits (i. 316). (4) Alberuni quotes from Alarkmul a 

method for the computation of the era Phakk, by which 
the Gupta era is meant (ii. 48, 49b 

P. 312. — On the relation between yojana and mile, 
note to p + igg* 

P. 312,1, 22 . — Using the ratio of 7:22 between diameter 
and circumference, we find 3300 yojanas as the circum- 
ference corresponding to a diameter of 1050 yojanas + So 
3300 yojanas is the circumference of the earth given in 
the handbook Af-arkand. This agrees with the last lines 
of p. 3 1 5, where it is said that 3200 yojanas are 1 00 yojanas 
less than the value given by Al-arkand {kkhram}. 


34 ° 


ALBERUNFS INDIA + 


V r 313. The 1 m i km 1 0/ 1 nmaUlala, i. e . TT/ 7 rm n mtc Jin . 

— note to p. 1 56. 

P. 3 1 3. — is a technical term for a cer- 

tain algebraic calculation. Of. Colebrooke, “ Algebra,” p, 

34. §76. 

W 314. — AJftiMrt m h-k canon, which was a translation 
of the B t '(ihm asiddhlnb r of Brahmagupta.; ■*>* note to p|u 

153. 165- 

P. 314, 1 . 11. — The calculation of the dtiidutara is, as 
Alberuni remarks, quite erroneous, as the difference of 
longitude Is not taken into account (&hntui:)> 

P. 315, 1 - 25. — The number in the- lacuna must be So, 
for Albernui says at the bottom of the page, tL If we invert 
the calculation and reduce the parts of the great, circle to 
yojanas, according to this method we get the number 
3200,” But to get 3200 we must multiply ■’ *- x by So, 
r rhe rule, lf Multiply the yojanas of the distance between 
two places by 9 and divide the product by 8o/* serves to 
convert this distance given in yojanas into degrees. This 
distance, then, is considered as the bypothenuse of a 
right-angled triangle, one of the sides of which is the dif- 
ference of the latitudes, the other the unknown difference 
of the longitudes; this latter is found by taking the root 
(if the d i ff ere n ee 0 f th e sq u ares of h y pot 1 1 e:i s use an d k 1 10 w n 
side. This difference of longitude is then expressed in 
degrees; to get it expressed in day- minutes we must 
further divide by 6, a* there are 360" in a circle, but only 
60 day- minutes in a day (Sckmm). 

I \ 316 . — Th 1 fin ■' co i i ned u uj Laid \ :t t w itk Mm ■ u f r l! re at 1 y 
mentioned on p. 308. 

P- 316, Yak ah Um Tdrik, AlarkawL - Yah note to 
p. 169, 312. 

I\ 3 [ 7. CafJaghfaffin , — Not knowing the etymology of 
this Turkish name, I am also ignorant of its pronunciation. 
T 1 le s eeoi 1 d par t of th e corn po n n d see ms to b e tag i ?i - - 


ANNOTATIONS, 


34i 


valorous,, as 111 Toghrultagin, i.e* valorous like a falcon. As 
jilghm, means a large spear ? one might think of 
reading JitghaUa-gin, i.e. valorous with the xpear, but this 
is very uncertain. Another name of a similar formation 
is kuthiff/daf/in, hfUfvjh-, but probably entirely different. 
Vide 1 1 i be r stein - J v azimirski , M an f > 1 dschehr i preface , p s 136’ 
Elliot, History of iadla,” ii. 352, iii* 253, 

W 337, — Kamnrfdfhu by \ i ties vara ; t\ note to p. 156. 

P. 317- The fortress Zauh&r, also mentioned p. 20 8 as 
Laliur. must not be eon founded with Lnuhavar or Lahore* 
Situation unknown. According to the author's Carton 
Alostidieus, it has latitude 35' 40', longitude 98' 20\ 
Comparing these latitudes with those given in Hunter's 
Gazetteer, we do not find that they much differ : — 


Ghaaua 




Hunter. 

K d< 

AHjamiii. 

33" 35' 

K&M 




34 30' 

34 c i' 45 " 

3 2 0 5* 

33 47' 

Pesh&var 




34° 44' 

Jail am 




33" 20 ' 

Sivalkote . 




32" ji f 

32 - S 8 ’ 

Min tin 




30 12 ' 

29" 40' 


On the identity of Waihand and A link, cf Cunning- 
ham, Ss Ancient Geography of India/ 3 p H 54, 

Mandakkakor (the name is differently written) was the 
fortress of Lahore, according to the author’s statement in 
his Canon Mamdicus. 

N at idna la e xpla in ed by Elliot ( 1 ‘ : 3 1 i story of India/ 1 ii , 
450,451) as a fort on the mono ta i 1 1 BA 1 j 1 fi t h , a con spic nous 
mountain overhanging the Jail am, and now generally called 
Til la. 0j\ also Elliot., /. c. ii. 346, note 347, 366. 

The places Dun pur (pronunciation perfectly uncertain) 
and lOmdi (also read Kiri), the station oft hr Amir, seem to 
have been on the road from Gliazna to I 3 eshavar. Hear 
the latter place was fought the decisive battle between 
King Mas fid and Ms blinded brother Muhammad, a.tj. 
1040, and there the former was murdered by the relatives 
of those who ten years earlier had thought to win his 
favour by betraying his brother, and were killed or mal- 
treated in reward. Of. Elliot, L c, iy* 199, note 3* 138, 
ii, 15a, 1 1 2 (Persian text, p. 274), 273, note 3. 


A LEE RUN PS INDIA. 


34 * 

I conjecture Dunpur to Lave been Identical with Jala- 
labad or some place near it. Latitude of Jalalabad, 34- 
24? ; that of Dunpur, 34 s 20'. 

Kandij more southern than D unpur and nearer to 
Kabul, must have been a place like G and a in a k or near it. 
If it is called the station (post -mlai) of the Amir . We may 
understand by this Amir the father of King Mahmud, the 
Amir Sabuktaglu, who first constructed the roads lead- 
ing to the Indian frontier, as Alberum informs us on 
p. 22 * 

On the identification of Bamliamva or Aim an sura in 
Sindh, v. Cunningham, L L p. 271 seq. 

The statements of Alberuni regarding the Kabul valley 
and environs have been laid down in a sketch -map of 
Aloys Spreuger, .Post- mid Eeiseronten des Orients, No, 
1 2 ; the Punjab and the approaches of Kashmir, ibid* 
No, 

P* 31 9, — Miih.mnmad Ibn , &c., is the famous Baw-s of the 
Middle A ge s, who died p ro ba bly A . d* 93 2 . T he au tho r h a s 
written a catalogue of his works which exists in Leyden ; 
■v. Chronologic Qrientafischer. Vdlh.er vm Alberuni, Einlei- 
tiing, p. xi ; Wtistenfeld, GescJncktc tier ArahlHchtn Aerztt\ 
No. 98. 

P. 320. — Ala&mder of ApKrodwvM is the famous com- 
mentator of Aristotle, who lived in Athens about 200 
after Christ, 0 /\ Fihrist, p + 252, and Zeller, GesckichU dcr 
Grkekiseken Philosophic, 3, 419. The quotation is found 
in Aristotle, Fkys, viL 1 . 


!'♦ 320, Varakamikim . — This quotation corresponds to 
SarhMM, 1 . v* 6, 7. Instead of Kurabh aka the Sanskrit 
text lias Kamlda* 


1\ 322. Tiviwus* — This quotation seems to be derived 
from 42 I) E : — 

ro rhv triropov roh vet? *5 TnxpsStyt* O&iis trw/xa™ 

7T Ao"tT£4 V OvifTvl} X.T, A, Kttd XafSoVt^S dQ&lWTQV Bwp'pv 


ANNOTATIONS. 


343 


in the A ratio text, p. i1P ? r/ t read instead of LJU, 
and UuU instead of UjU. 

R 3 24. .77/ tt-Ac is nimv A-iwi, i.e. a being of the 
next higher order. The opposite of the term *j 1 ai ^ is 
<^+3 (for the being of the next lower order) on p + iW f 
20 (translation i. 351), 

P. 325, Visknit^Pur&rtfh — The first words. Maharlokd 
He-% d*c., there is one h'dpa, are found in ii. chap, vii, p. 
226, The sons of Brahman are mentioned in Vishnu - 
Pur&iia, ii. 200, note. The name Sanandanada (Sanantla- 
natha?) is perhaps a mistake for San fit. ana. Of Sdmkhya 
JCdri&d with the commentary of Gaudapadaby Colebrooke- 
Wilsou, p. i, 

* P* 325. — AM~Af tfshar. — Vide note to p. 304* 

P. 325. Alerdmhuhrt. — Vide note to pp. 6, 7. 

P. 327. The covntrfi without Ir/titudr, i.e. ninth stiff in 
Sanskrit,— Vide p, 267, and Silrtja- Siddh finta, xii, 44, note* 

\ \ 3 30. - S ryahhrda of Km umf epum t Le , j n n ior . — Cj\ n ote 
to p« 246. 

I\ 333- — The terms pardrdha and 1 dm have been ex- 
plained, pp. 173, 178, 

f \ 334. The hook Srudham h\j Utpalo . — Vide notes to 
PP- <57. 

A system of the measures of time has also been given 
by Colebrooke, M Essays,” i. 540 seq. 

P. 336. 8 -M+Y - — -Tins name is so written here and p. 
337. The A t abic signs are to be read Shmnmi or Skamiyyu. 
1 do not know a Sanskrit name of this form. Is it = 
Samatfa f 

The same name seems to occur a third time, ii. rS8, but 
is there written B-M-Y. A 1 be r uni says that S-M-T had 
dictated a method for the computation of the smhlcrdnti ; 


3+4 


ALBBEUNFS INDIA, 


he therefore, perhaps, was a scholar of the time and a per- 
sonal acquaintance (teacher?) of Alberuni’s, The title of 
a booh of his is not mentioned. 

A\ 3 38. — Th >■ sped muhra or white shelf an Indian blow- 
ing instrument, is also mentioned by Elliot, ;t History of 
In dm,” h. 215, note. 

Pursbnr ( as the manuscript has, is probably a mis- 
take for 1 Pe. Peshavar* 

** * 

P. 338, Horm and temporals. — -Vide note 

to p, 214. 

l\ 339. The com wmtafar off It c 8 iddhd nta t Polka, ) ! ead 
instead of this, “The commentator of the Sicldhunta of 
Pulisa” and compare note to pp. 153^ 1 54. Who this com- 
mentator was is not mentioned. 

I.\ 340 . — Ahhijit means the 3th mithfirtv- of the day. 
The Arabic form ^Issr} corresponds perhaps to Sanskrit 
WhijitL 

l\ 3 40, Vytha , — Th is st ate m ent poi nts to M ahfibl t n rat a, 
the Adi-parvan, v, 4506 ; but the chronological detail is 
not found there. 

P. 340. Nisajrflla. — Vide note to p. 165* 

V. 342. — The names of the dominants of the m-uhilrias 
are also mentioned in the following four lines taken from 
AufrechPs Catalogue of the Sanskrit manuscripts of the 
Bodleian Library, p. 332^ : — 

rudrdhimitrapitaro vasuyarivisve vedha vidhih satama- 

kh ah pu ru h u tavah n i . 

nuktamcara.s ca varunfiryamayonayai ca prokta dine 

dasa ca pavhea tatha m nhuEtah 

r t i Kii Tiiiili fli tn gi ri»; 1 j apad a h 1 rbiul li n y ap u si » ill v iy a m a gm 1 - 

yasca. 


ANNOTATIONS r 


345 

vi dli n to ‘loai iidrid i i i j i vayishu utigmady utitva sh trasami 

rsmM ca. 

lk 343. Swept the astrologers. — Of. tlie mean nig of hard 
in astrology, ii, 222, 

P.343, Vijayanandm* — Vide note to p. 156. The 
tide of his book would be in Arabic ^ \^ri 1 ^4 (Gkiernd- 
aizijd 


Ik 34-p Nftnms of the hards . — I have not found these 
names in Sanskrit, Perhaps they are mentioned in some 
commentary to S&rya SiddhdMa, xii., 79. 

On Snldh(wa f v. note to p. 1 58. 

Ik 347, Phtjtiical scholars know, &c < — There is a similar 
passage on the physical effects of moonlight in the author's 
c * Chronology of Ancient Nations/’ p* 363. I am afraid 1 
have not caught the sense of the sentence, “and that she 
affects (?) linen clothes/’ &c. 

Ik 34S* Aiuh (?). — The MS* seems to read dimhlm. 

The word mm a. is perhaps a mistake for £ikjj burkkit t 

which, according to the table, ii. 197 (ef, Tnnnpp, “Gram- 
mar of the Sindhi Lang if age ** p* 158), is the name of the 
first day of a piikska. 

Ik 348. VMa . — The author gives six quotations from 
the Veda ; one taken from Palaujaii (L 2 g) t one from 
S&ml'hya (b 31), two from the Brakvimiddhduta of Brah- 
magupta (ii, 1 10, in), and two quotations which were 
probably communicated to him by his Pandits, as he does 
not. mention a particular source whence he took them (i. 
348 and ii. 348), 

P* 3 5 2 . I dhude m . — The q u 0 tat i 01 1 corresponds to Bka - 
tja vad- 0 ifd , vui* 17* 

The hook Smyii'L" Vide note to p. 131. This quotation 
seems to have been taken from ft] aim, I)h(crmaMdra, 
b 72* 


346 


a l&Brunps India* 


lb 353, — The information on the four mdnas (cf Stlri/a- 
Siddhfmta, chap, xiv,}, as given by Yakub, was the only 
one at the disposal of Albers mi at the time when he wrote 
his “Chronology” (y. English edition, p r [5), It was 
communicated to him by the Kudh-cdy hurra of AM 
Muhammad AltnVib Alamuli. The four different kinds of 
spaces of time mentioned there are the four mdnas > saura, 
sdmna, candra and nakshatra. 

I \ 333 .—IJhukfi, in Arabic btth.t, is the daily motion of 
a planet ; cf. Nti ryo^Sid dJA nta f i. 2?, note, and here 11. 195* 
The Arabic form does not seem to have passed through an 
intermediate stage of a Prakritic nature, for in Prakrit it 
would have been bhutti { Vararuci, lib I ). 

P. 355- The xtVihiita-)?iSma is umf &c* — Cf the similar 
rules in Smya- 8 iddh(uita f xiv. 3, j 3, 15, j 8 , T Q, 

P, 356, UUar&pariti > — On the two ay anas cf Surj/a- 
Suldhfmta, xiv. 9. 

tb 357* RitU : — - Vide the description of the six seasons 
in Nnvifa-Niddhdnta, xiv. to, 16. 

] \ 358. I)o mi na nis of the htd vas qf ' tk e a lonths . — 1 do not 
know a Sanskrit list of these names* The Asana (Ashunu) 
perhaps means A svin or AimnL 

lb 359. Dimas (probably pronounced dimasn) — Sanskrit 
tfiraw, is the shibboleth of the Indian vernacular -dialect 
spoken round Alfaerimi, and probably by himself. J do 
not know which dialect this was, nor whether there are 
any traces of it in our days* The change between r and 
mis also observed in the following examples : — ci-aA * ^ 
car m anmot = mi 1 m an m il ( Cham bal ) , <- - _ 1 4 t hi m an t ant = 
hiw.axanL \^Jdga nudhit = m "t ft am! k \//a y at (ted = 



change of v to m are also given by Monde, “ Comparative 
Grammar," § 134. 

P, 359. The three munis A, and sf Sc . — On the pro- 


A NNOTA TIONS . 


347 


mm elation of sk a? hh y cj\ llbrnie, L c, § 19, and on the 
further change of kh to A, ibid* § 19. Examples of the 
former change are numerous in the Indio.* ; of examples 

of the latter, cf. 4.T* rtvunha mvkha, bah'ahdn = 

vaprol'M.na (?), and also T dhari ? rf. dshddh% 
kihk ind = kishk i ndh m ! 11 Frak rit n 1 nh ft yn = mukh a ( V ara- 

ruci, ii, 27. 

\\ 361. Snidkava by (Jipala. — Vide note to p. 157. 

P. 362, i gha(i = i 6 lain. — Of. with these measures of 
time the statements on pp. 336, 337. 

r. 364. Chapter XL— It has also been translated by 
Kemaud, Fragments drakes et Persans. pp. 155-160, 

1'. 364. Sakolhi udaya and samdhi astam tma.—On e 
won Id e xpect sa v i ul hyudi * y( t. an d $a / f e: f/i yetsk 1 rrnna .but th ere 
is no trace of a y. The forms have a vernacular character, 

and must be explained according to the analogy of OJ 

dull = dyuti, and ^}\ mitazu = tmtyvp. 

story of this king and his son 
iTalilada is told by the Vishaa-Furdna, ii, 34 $eq, 

ft 366. SmhdkL — The way it is used in astrology is 
shown by the table, ii. 219, 

f\ 366. Ihtnjnla . — Vide note to p. 157. The tradition 
here given is very similar to that mentioned by Colebrooke, 
IS Essays,” ii, 332, 333. 

P. 366, L 35. — We find that the beginning of the Hindu 
solar year £54 ftakakala takes place A.D. 932, March 22, 
6 ghf.it i 40' 1 which corresponds to March 22, 7 h, 40 rn. 
civil Greenwich time, whilst the real instant of the solstice 
is March 15, 12 h. 15 m* civil Greenwich time, so that the 
solstice precedes the calculation by 6 days and 19 hours, 
which agrees very well with the 6 ° 50' which Punjnla men- 
tions (tSchram). 


34 S 


ALBBRUNPS INDIA . 


L\ $6$>Ahmyana = ahar+g am, — r i 1 He author s erroneous 
explanation is repeated ii. 26. 

Sind-hind — suit Ik t mta . — It m ay be q ue sti on ed wheth er 
til e inorganic 11 has been introduced into the word by the 
Arabs, or whether it existed already in the pronunciation 
of the Hindus from whom they learned the word* I do 
not know of a rule to this effect, in Prakrit or vernacular, 
but there are certain Indian words which apparently show 
a similar phonetic process* Of. *vy. Prakrit utfo {Sanskrit, 
ushira), which in. Eastern Hind hi has become nt or nut. 
ildrniej “Comparative Grammar of the Gaudian Lan- 
gnages, ,? § 149* 

P. 370. A ryubhnfff, — Vv.fr note to p, i ;6* 

Aryabhata of Kum-rmaprira* Vida note to p. 24 6. 

The word I cannot decipher may be read u-cju! 1 f ix. the 
article and three consonants with three dots above them, 
something like 


I \ 3 7 t — UUt 1 1 1 ii tj i 7 a m t m rjntj K are term s e m pi oy e d 1 11 
the -faina system. Of. Colebrooke, <l Essays/’ ii* I 86, 194. 

Ik 372* Th * ■ hook 8m } 'it i mwdio )w, — Th is is M anu, Dlw t - 
ma^dstm, i, So* 

P. 375. A tmnshttion of 1 m wlwk *iwrk, note 

to pp. 153, 154. Alberuni was translating the Pviisa- 
SiddMwta, which until that time had not yet been trans- 
lated into Arabic by Muslim scholars, because they did 
not like its theological tendency. 

I k 376. Hrak w < ttfitpt a. — Fid e no te to pp. 153, 154. 

Ik 378. — In writing the Introductory sentences of chap, 
xliii., tbe author seems to have bad in mind Plato's 

T'i fit-O:- it$-j 22 C J , TrtjXXfti. Kid. Karri 7tv X Ai t ytynvaa'Lv 

tlvdpit}TT<r>V h-( ll. ftrovrdty K,T. A. 

P* 379 . — The pedy/rce of Hippocrates is known from 
Tzatues, chib ?ii. host. 115. Of "The Genuine Works -of 
J 1 1 p po crates , ” t ran s 1 nt ed l iy Fr . A d an 1 s, Lo ndon „ l 84Q , vol . 


ANNOTATIONS , 


349 


i. p. 23, The name seems to be a repetition of the 

name Eippolocho®, 1 . If it is dropped from the list, 

we have the fourteen generations which the author counts 
between Hippocrates and Zeus. 

The Arabic seems to be a mistake for ^U-U, 

Mdckaon* 

I\ 380. Parrdwrdma. — Vide this legend in Vi thy u- 
Pwdna, iv; 19 (here added from the MaMMtdmUt). 

1 '. 380, Buddhodana * — Vide my conjecture as to the 
Origin of this name in note to p„ 40. 

The Mali am mira* — This term lias been explained in 
note to p. 2 1 - 

P. 382, Gary a 7 ike son of * — The name of his father is 
written Jaskn or Jashu (here and p. 397). Could this bo 
Y a sod a ? 

Ib 382 . — -Alt Ihn Zain was a Christian physician in 
-Meiw ; ej\ Bhahrazurt, -MB. of the Royal Library, Berlin, 
MB. Or., ocfcav. 217, fob 144. h\ the same in Baihaki, ibid. 
No- 737, fob According to this tradition, his son was 
the author of the famous medical book Firdaus-dlfeikma. 
Of. also Fill ad st, p. 296 and notes; WtLsfcenfeld, QescJtieMe 
iter Ambi&chm Aerzfe, No. 53, 

Th e booh Cat xd n* — Vide note to p, 159. 

P + 383, Kriitf, the son of A trey a . — If this is what, the 
author means, the Arabic signs must be altered 1o 

ij+tj*- Of. A. Weber, Voriemmgtn, p, 284, note 309. 

P. 383, — The quotation from Aratua is Humomena, vv. 
96-134. I give the text from Imm* Bfekker, Arttius rum 
Arr hoiivti Berlin, 1828: — 

’ A jLtc^jTe'jTiO art i':4 TTOcjTjk bwQiTiAwT* U> (W'Ttm 
Th&pOkvoVt if fV iv ytpcrx Aykf^vra. 

At' urv Ay rpa to 1 . kfIvy} yeros, or pa re ixyti H 
"urt (HtW — \r.tif i-jr,yc L it r,. t it e ra< JAAoi\ 

erKijAoV ifiOpWto * Aoyus ye fdv aAAuy 


ALBERUNPS INDIA . 


35^ 

dv8pv7r on, ni $ tVix&attq 

ypX £TO 5* ap0pt5flrft»' tfrareyavrtifl, oiJSe froT J avSp&y 

o^Se ttot* ctp^atW ijt rj)vtiTQ <£vAa yui-at^Lui', 

a A A’ &j r OjTAi^ ic-ril atAii/drvj Trip" lootra, 

wit I Aucijy na\h(TKtiV ' tiy^n.pc-pevr; Si yE/wTa? 
ifi srou €iv ayopjj 7 } 4^ 

fyporJpav ^eiSeiv €jrtH7ir4p^otj£rn #e/.u<rr^\ 
otSirtu AevjifftAfou tot* vitaeo^ yirtaittJLVTQ, 
ov8t Ei4t.tcf±t.(Tt&$ jTtpiu-ep^eo i ouS«i ju.'S&tpoi? ■ 

cu'™? S’ tauOf. ^aA«ri) S J a— occ^to Odk<Knra i 

Kal fltov QVTTiu V^tq aTTOTTpoOtV r tff IvtVKOV ' 

«AAa /?oc? jki.( t aporpji khu avT^ TOTVttt Aa^v 

pi'p iravra Trn.pt 1 Aakd^ S<l>tu pa SuecLMiiy. 

TQtjyp* Jjv of/jp 1 eta yat£jt. ykvo s x/wtreiap E^ep^Ey, 
an y i r ji>f C|> S r dA/yij te jtma or Ken rdj.iirav opouj 
Uijii Aei t Traftetrura TraAcLAati/ ^i9efjc. Acuur. 
a A A 3 e|Ainjs eta keuo keat’ dpyvpeo v yeva 5 r)ea. 
ijp^ero S T e£ cjpEijj y uzroSwAiOS ?J ^lyc t'Ttm- 1 
pOvraf ' uuSc te^j ETTE/iirryero pEiAi^AOHTAV " 

dkX? qttot 7 avBpwTrwv peydkfss ttAiJctcuto koAqjvoi?, 
r/TClAct S-) Ittef-to, KaSawropevYj #e<JKor?jro?j 
ot>S’ It’ 10'fjf t riT wrrov lAEi'trerr^at kuAIuvO'af, 

OttflV jysiAiTEiOt ITUTe/JCS yEF-'E') J' eAiTTOJr'TO 
^ftpcn-Ep>p ■ rp4 tv Se KHKwrepa TE^EiWt?e. 

k«£ SvJ rrmi sr^Afpoi, mu Si) war. ui/apcrrot urjia 

eWeTlU i|J J'fj'pdjlT'UiiTf.f KGlKUif S’ tVtfitlVtTfli uAytf$. 

cijv e-trowr ojqeoiv EffEpaiETO, tq^s S' apa Act 0 as 
uv tivTrfv eta irar-ai tXtp.Tra.ve TTitJVTLt. lvo t'ras, 

a A A 1 gte Si) Kffi^eiFot ere^Vaow, ol S j eyeiovTC^ 

X^.A^eAjI yef-ev^ TrpoTEpwv oAowrepui ai'Spes, 
ot TpiZror. KUKutpyuv e^aAfreiW^ro 
fiVoSujr, rrp^rcii Se /Stmai- 1 EV^jtiiT' ilp^tvJ/xiJty 
xai rare Ktivwv ylrov ai'SpOji/ 

eVrtt O' itjTQ vp\± fltp 


1\ 384. The mm-ttwntalvr of the booh of Artdm . — This 


AN NOVA TIONS. 


35 r 

commentary is not identical with the scholia edited by 
Bekker, Of JSrdiifr&tkenis Oaiadeiismortm Ikliffam, rec. 
C* Robert, pp. 82-84, 


P. 385. Plato , — This quotation is from Legos > iiL 677 \ 
but the phrases forming the conversation have been 
omitted, 

A0HN, Tlj itqAAcas tlvOpivirtoV e pBupas yiyaviva t Karan kvtr- 
poh Mif I'otroi'i Ki t l aWms iroA Xa Ar h ei a Tv lip*tx.v tl TO rdr 
dv&pwjrntv A^iTTta'Oat ytvo^y K,r r A. 6? at TOTt Tre^=4^>i7ydvTes 7?p r 
cr^eScir opetyai TtL'fS ah cfey i/optts lv nop vxfiaiq wav, 
(Tjj.t Kpd ^iitTTvpa roy ton* yei r oi^ 6 to. it^lt iixx p k v a, k,t, A. 

Kal St) touv to go rr 00 s" y* V? vdy kt] ttou two A A Am v rijr^pous fiVat 

re x l-cm 1 ■ kul rwr e i r rrjts rttrretrt tt/jus rl A At} Ao 1*; erA rt 

TrAeyvtrjiu? xar ^tAwetKtas kgu 6 tiw j a A Act k a k o \ y i y rj- pacr a TTpos 

aAAjjAu 1.' i k ttiv oa Scrt v, 

P. 387.' — 6y< with this table book ill, 

chap, i, and ii^ and the Bombay edition, 1 886. 

ffidmasa seems to be a mistake for Tdviasa. 

C ait r aka instead of eaitra seems to have been derived 
from an erroneous reading of the beginning of the Sanskrit 
caitrakimpimfshMvjd^' 

Sudivya seems to have risen from a wrong division of 
the words Pamin (other readings Paralhu, Parama) 
Dima. The Bombay edition reads 2 mtjtt hpammadivytP 
d-rfustmt/a. 

Antal a f the name of India in the fifth Alanvantara, can 
hardly be combined with the Vihku of Sanskrit tradition. 

St ndh u Pew _ — These words, w- hat eve r their proper pro- 
nunciation may be, are not found in the Sanskrit test. 

Pii-ru- Mum is Sanskrit Urv Flint, but PmmvMtt is a 
gross mistake, for the text has itt'upu ridataihfi vmwpr* no v. - 
lihah, is, Unij Burn, Satadyumna* and others. 

Nvham and Bfonstk-m are mistakes for Nahmyti and 
DhrUh(if. 

Pirojus, Ahiirmriy Nvnnoglia , — -The Sanskrit text runs 
r h v t aUror vn rrn. t r tit sot t nirm oh d dy&% wlii ch A I be rn n i h as 
d i v id ed into / ■irajcf - tf&ov variv&t i t .'ot t -uirv tofot* C f, Ftvr- 


352 


ALBERU NFS INDIA. 


varl Vdrhica on p. 394. Wilson reads the second name 
ArmrlraL 

Malta airy a, name of Indra in the ninth Hanvanlara, 
instead of Adbhuta, rests on a misinterpretation of these 
words: tcxluim indrd rthakdviryd hkamshyaiyadibhvM drdja. 

Sudkarm/Mmam — The Sanskrit text lias Saiyrndharmit 

Berata - Vthut-pa deydsea, instead of Be raw t and Upadem, 
rests on a wrong division of the words deva cdmtpademxca. 

Vintra-tuh/^ a mistake for rdcitrddyd, ie. Victim and, 
oth ers. 

Urm\ ikd di! (sit' M S.), Badbnya-adyd, a mistake for 
m at 'fftdJt { t 'ttbn t M <t ydd-yd, i . < ■. U : t 1 a , Go. bit i n 9 Ba d hit ytt y a n r / 
others. 

V. 3SS. — The same book rela.Us, viz*, ViBttm-J'nrdaa . iiL 

p. 20. 

On Frlya.vmta, v t ibid. iu p. 10;, 

P. 389, — A pirns woman, viz,, Arnndbati, v. p. 3 90. 

P, 390. — On the Seven Kishis, or Ursa Major, of. Cole- 
hr 00 be, + ‘ Essay s/’ ii* 310. 

F. 391, — The almanac or calendar from Kashmir for the 
Saka-year 931 (a.d. 1029) is quoted in two other places, 
ii. 5 and ii. 8* 

P. 391. — On the ancient astronomer Garga, e./\ Kern, 
Bahai Sauhtid, preface^ pp, 33 seq + 

P, 392, Only by 525 years — Vf. on VavdlimaiMra note 
to p. 54. 

\\ 392. Kara nr* stir a by Yittesvara * — Vide note to p* 
i$6< 

I \ 394. — This table is taken from Visk a a-P tirdna , hook 
ili. chaps, i. and ii, 

2. Ala tt ran ft era ; Bafftt j Virishabba,- A mistake for XW- 
fmvi JUsh tt bit a. 

M-sra i v t . — A 1 h ©mn i read Nirsa ra . 

Promt ri Bamim * — -The author has wrongly divided the 


ANNOTATIONS . 


353 


word st'-orvttHv&'fitdca (ed f Bombay Awr mriv&t i iScd), Cj\ 
note to p. 387. 

4> Munrfmiarft : Jyofi (ivad JtptAs) DMm/nt . — Mistake 
for Jyotiwlh&wwK 

Qritfvtpti, as the author has, is a mistake for CaUrdpui. 

V" yit in, -Ed. Bombay, Vrtmvdrt; Wilson-Hall, Vatiftfot* 

5. Msmv<mtam : Rimlkmhdim lias risen l h rough the 
wrong division of the two words tainArirm't ih t&M ftu, 

Apvtra has by mistake been taken for a proper non 11 in 
the fol l ow in g words ; — ? mlh rahdh t tut- t f l h t ipa * v ih . 

St t Itilh t 1. ( S rtf halt 1 1 ?), — Th e San s kii t tex t h as .v n a fh 

6. NtnuM'iitttn* : Atint'untuh—Yhe A rabie text has at 
t m hut. Or are we to read 7L'-' 1 instead of ^.UA ? 

Ottrshajfah { = tmd th: Rnlm) by mistake derived from 
the foi lo w i 11 g passage : — w *■ / tftixi t n a it A ■? t f -xh t up <h, 

9, M*ni p-iTvv h < i 't t : J/> * njff . in t lie San sk rit trad i ti on Bit tt 1 -tp * . 

r* rf ■ 

Perhaps we must read instead of t v, 

J/hv //j- rn ,- / // f ■ // / ( W i l son ■ Hal ] ) , m vtiktvmr it / ( ed , Born bay ). 
Alberuni seems to have read f'W/^WAyoV/, if wr are not. 
to. read instead of iiJjUi-u. 

1 o. ] A/ a < e ^ ^7 v v / : N- h//h> f f W i l so n - 11 al l ) h — T t 1 0 Ar ubic ha 3 
something like Sfd^t-t/S. 

St* l xhd m . T h e A rabic ) 1 as Stuxfo r" ins ten d of X c / y # r h t tt , 
Perhaps the author lias overlooked this word and copied 
the following one, vitf., Sh k*Mf va. 

1 1. JAvn ; NiAfvru, in the Arabic cUmm. 

Jb/-tiUlhra = Atjidttjm. Tim Arabic has tuj'tiUnt 

which is perhaps to be changed to (fffpiifrjttr). 

±M if fh 0 . . — W it son -II al 1 r A nm jJt a. 

12. Jfttit a * 1 1 ft 7 rtf : tftt ( tt tpf y in tl ie S an sk rit t ex i *n t / ttj <{\ & •*< , 
Pi -H laps the author lias read xtfttr/fdxtw. 

Dtpdi and L\rthuj<t.\ have by mistake been derived from 
the following verse — 

ft* pod] ft 'it f t ■ hf it 1 lit ti n if a Ji wt 1 j in j a ft^ ttftq toil fajmk* 

13. M*t'i t ft * nt f f ft t ; lift t 't r rl ft v S fm 1 m is tak e for Tt t tv ft 1 r- 
ftin, for the Sanskrit text, has tMvaihfviirn* 

Vfptiftt, mistake for A vpaya. The author seems to have 
read ti. k rit [ t n < ?•« vpttyt 1 4 t y/ ins tea d 0 f t fki 'it in mn/t vya^a&'ft . 

14. AJfui n<ufnm ; Jt/niba instead of Af/nihuhtth 

VOL* II, ' t 


354 


A LB ER UN PS INDIA, 


Gnidhra > — The ed, Bombay reads m&fjarfJwf/n&tlhrftn- 
ram, 0 tli er t earl iugs, (rt ■ ftf Ar/ r . ./lyv* v Ih ? vr. 

JM-tocr and are taken from the following verse— 

y 1' ft fh 1 1 -jifm-M nyo- nu uuqntli '& n edit h fin u . 

P. 395, — Vakdrhilt/as are known as pigmy sages from 
the Vift.n f. f -PwYlna, but 3 do not find there this story of 
them and Sato kratu. 

if 396. B< tfi. fit e so n of I Hrort * to 1 , an d hh V azi v f V- j 1 1 u% 
Le. S n k ra. — f 7t h ■ Vifk u 0 - Pit r&nn , i i i . 1 > . 19. note. r H 1 e re 
is a 11 ind 11 f es I i va 1 cal 1 ed after 3 1 i 1 n B ( * U t fjf/o ; c. Yu 1 82. 

1\ 397, fiftnn-Pard+UL — Tins quotation is found II 1. 
ii, p. 31. 

I, \ 3 98 — r l 1 1 ie second qi 1 of at i 0 n f ro m ? ~/v/. ( nt-Pn nht ft is 
ITT. iii. p. 33 + 

Kali, f hr son of Jafid (?)«— lido note to p + 383. 

P. 398. — The names of the Vyfisas of the twenty-nine 
Dvilpara-yugas have been taken from Vifcnn-Pncdm, III. 
ill. pp. 34-37. The author's tradition differs a little from 
the Sanskrit text Jn sdiarashe does not always combine the 
same Yyasa with the same Dvaparaj particularly towards 
the end of the list. The names agree in both traditions, 
except Tnmni'mu for which the Arabic lias something like 
Trictnia or Trlniffo, Besides, in the word Rinajyeshtha 
(in Arabic Rinajerlf) the author has made a mistake. 
The Sanskrit verse runs tlius — ■ 

h't 1 iff t j iijfn/t th mplntf a sc r in ft pjofi f ft fin & ■ s w ) 7 Ink. 

A1 her uni has re ad j ' i tt t \ 'jm ft i oft tw.f a sc in stea d of r i n ajt/eft - 
iihlffM, and has wrongly divided these w ords into rinaj* 
t/i ft to - afi i { ** I fi f i nstea d i j f t ■ in o f//o t tfi tdfnf\ further, lie 
has been guided by the analogy oi jtpcislrfht (the name, of 
the month), which in vernacular was pronounced join, in 
cl 1 an gin g 1 'in ajycsh to in t n ri. n ajct I tu 

If 398. J T ift n 1 1 - T)h arm a * — In rn e 1 it i oni n g Y usn d e va , 
Saiiikarshana, &c., as the names of Vi slum in the yogas, 
this source agrees with the teaching of the sect of the 


ANNOTATIONS . 


355 


Bbfigavatas or I Ymcamtras. — I Colebrooke, " Essays,” i. 
439 - 44 ° ■ 

l\ 401. — The story of the birth of Yasudeva, i.e> Krishna, 
is related in the Vidimt-FW&na, book v* chap* iii* 

1 V 403, The children 0/ Ka arava, hr. — The following 
traditions are taken from the MaJi&Mdrata : the dice- 
playing from book it, or ^ahhdparrar/. • the preparing for 
battle from book v., or udyogajKirmn ; the destruction of 
the Eve brothers by the curse of the Brali ruin from book 
xv L t or i/La-ustihqwrvan ; their going to heaven from book 
xvih, 0 r m ahtipmd. hdnikaparva n. 

The introductory sentence of this relation, JjT 
L- 4 ' A; 1 i teral [ v, £ ,i ' *\ ’h e chi 1 d ren of K an rav a 

were over their cousins/’ is odd. and perhaps not free 
from a lacuna. lYindu had died, and his children grow 
up in Han tin up ura, at the court of Kaurava, tie. Dhrita- 
rashtra, their uncle, the brother of Pdndn. One expects a 
sentence like “The children of Kaurava cherished enmity 
against their cousins," but as the. Arabic words run, one 
could scarcely translate them otherwise than I have done. 
The children of Kan ray a had “the charge of their cousins," 
&o. 

lb 407. On the nhhauhitd ef. H, TT. Wilson, “ Works/* 
2d edit,, iv. p. 290 (on the art of war as known to the 

Hindus). 

Menikaiit* seems to be a mistake for Myrtiiu&, Cf. 
lirt.dodhemft Cn tauter ittmo rum Relift mo\ rec. Cl. Robert, p. 
104. The source of Alberimi seems to have been a book 
like the chronicle of Johannas Alula lax. 

The second tradition, taken from a commentary on 
A rat us" Phterso^ ena (ride note to p r 97), is found in the 
sa m e book . E) niodh m is, &x< , p . 1 00, 98, I ? or tliis iri f orn 1 a- 
tion I am indebted to my colleague. Professor ft Robert. 

R. 40S. — The number 284,323 of people who ride on 
chariots mid elephants is a mistake for 284,310. I do 
not see what is the origin of this surplus of 13 men. 
However, the wrong number must be kept as it is, since 
the author reckons with it in the following computation. 



ANNOTATIONS 


YOU II. 

1 \ k — T he famous chronological chapter xlix. consists 
of two parts of very different value. Part i., on p. 2—5. an 
explanation of the mythical eras of the Hindus, is taken 
from the Vishnu-l^hM-rvm^ on which work rf\ note to i. 
P- 54 ' 

Part ii. T on p, J - 14. containing information of a historical 
character, has not been drawn from a literary source* If 
the author had learned these things from any particu- 
lar book or author, he would have said so. Hie infor- 
mation is partly what educated people among Hindus 
believed to be historic and had told him, partly what he 
had himself observed during his stay among Hindus and 
elsewhere* That their historic tradition does not deserve 
much credit is matter of complaint on the part of the 
author {on pp- to, j 1), and that altogether the description 
of historic chronology, as far as he was able to giv>- if, is 
by no means in all points satisfactory, is frankly admitted 
by the author himself {on p r y)* Whatever blame or 
praise, therefore, attaches to this chapter must, in the best 
instance be laid to the charge, not of Alberti ni, but of his 
informants P What lie tells us is to be considered as the 
vuJfjcda among educated Hindus in the north-west of India 
in his time. 

Although the tales which had been told Aibernni may 
not have been of a high standard, still it is much to bo 
regretted tit at he has not chosen to incorporate them into 
his Indica (r /1 p. it, a 6)* 

Whether his hope (expressed on p, 8), that he might 
some day learn something more of this subject, was realised 


3 3® 


A LB BRUNTS INDIA r 


or not, I cannot make out. However, the stray notes on 
Indian chronology scattered through his Canon Mft.$udwu$ t 
which he wrote some years after the Indies do not seem 
to betray that his Indian studies had made much progress, 
In all research as on Indian chronology, Alberto ii's state- 
ments play an eminent part, specially those relating to the 
epochs of the Salta and Gupta eras, CJ\ among others 
the following publications 

Fflrguiison, N Oil Indian riimnn-lngy," (l .J ournal of the Pmy:i] Asia Lie 
.Society,” voL iv\ (iS^d), p. Si ; ami 'M)n the Salta , Samvat, arid 
Gupta Eras, 1 ' vot xii, (iSSo), p. 254 

E. TIiLunaB, "The Epoch of t-|je Gup Las,” ibid, vvh xiU- (x&Si), \>. 524. 
OJdenberg, 11 On l.bo Dates of An dent Indian Iimu'ipthsJj* and 
Coins,' 1 11 Indian Anticjnary,” rSSi, p. 213. 

Fleet, J1 The Epoch of the Gapta Era,” ibid. , ]8 S(j, p. 1%, 

Drouin, (f Ghronologie id XLimi&Euaiiqutt dee Eats indu- Scythes, 1 5 
in “Eevne Niimwm^i.rqriflj" iS88, premier irim^slre, pp. 8^7. 

M. Mqltcr, tl India, What? can it ten oh us?” pp. sSt, 286, 291. 

1\ 2. — As the author had to compare a number of d Ef- 
ferent eras with each other, he stood in need of a common 
standard to which to reduce all of them, and for this pur- 
pose he chose the New-Year’s Day or first Caitra of the 
year 953 of the £aka era, which corresponds to — 

( r .) a j b 1031, 3 g fch Feb l 1 1 ej ry , a Th u rsd ay . 

(2.) A. Hijrae 422, 28th Hafar. 

(3.) A. Persarntn 399, igth Ispandurmadh-Muh. 

The Naurdz or New- Year’s Day of the Persian year 400 
fell on gth March 1031 AJ)., which is the day 2,097,686 
of the Julian period {Sv-hram)* 

l-\ 2. J. 30.— This refers to the year of the kaliyuga 
3600, as there have elapsed 10 d ivy a years or 3600 years 
of the present yuga. On the next page Alberuni makes 
the calculation for the gauge-year, or the year 41 32 of the 
kaliyuga* A kalpa being a day of Brahman, 8 years. 5 
months, 4 days correspond to 8x720 + 5x60+4x2,0? 
6068 kalpas^or 26,21 3.760,000,000 years* Of the present 
kalpa there have elapsed six man vantar as or 1,840,320,000 
year’s, seven samdhis or 12.096,000 years, twenty-seven 
caturyugas or i 1 6,640,000 years, the kritayuga or 1,728,000 
years, the tretaynga or t *296,000 years, the dvapamyuga 
or 864,000 years, and of the kaliyuga 4132 years; so 
altogether of the seventh manvantara 1 20,532, 1 32 years, 


ANNOTATIONS. 


359 


of the kalpa t . 972.948, 1 32 years, and of Brahman’s life 
2671 5732.948,132 years, as stated p. 3, 11. 6-9 (AViram). 

P. 3. If wot I fi'Jto tdd if fo YudkixhihmK &t \ — The 
author of Vidaot-l)h<i nna refers in these words to the 
third pa nun (iwm'qtarimi) of the MuhdbMrata, 

1 \ 4, 1 . 29. From the beginning of Brahman's life to 
that of the presen t kalpa there have elapsed 6068 kalpas or 
606 8 x 1 008 x 4, 3 20,000 0 r 2 6 ,4 2 3 .4 7 0,080,000 ye ar s. Six 
iuanvantaras = 6 x 72 * 4,320,000 or 1,866,240,000 years; 
t w ei 1 ty-s eve n cat a ry u gas = 27 x 4 , 3 2 0,000 o r r 3 6,6 40, 000 
years ; three yugas + 43 32 years = 3. x 1,080,000 4T32 or 

3744,132 years. The latter number represents the years 
elapsed of the caturyuga : adding to it successively the 
other numbers of years, we find the numbers given 11. 29-3 1 
of th i 5 page. r Hhe A rabi c man usori pt h ns 2 6 ,4 2 5 ,4 5 6 , 2 00 ,000 
i nst ead of 26/42 5 . 4 5 6. 204, 1 3 2 (Schra m }. 

I J . 6, F 3. — In the book SrMhava, &e. 3 cf+ note to L p. 158. 
Candrahija.- I first took the reading of the manuscript 

i. t 

to be so , but now 1 believe I can see a pale dot above 

the last con sonant, so that we may read jo 

On the shmh(f/aMff, or sixty-years cycle, ef. cliap lxii. 
?■ 123, 

P. 6. The rpoch of the cm of SaJca, &c. — Alhemni 
speaks of this era in his Canon- Ma$uditiu& (composed 
during the reign of Mas fid) in the following terms : 

■Ju-V— AXi i^rr il yX 1 JV** 1 J ^ y ^ 2^ Ai! 1 1 y ^ 

6lklb cLhri n ^ 

«UU1' (UAj ^ 

JFafUjl ^0. (Beginning of the sixth chapter, book L, 
copied from the Codex Elliot, now in the British Museum.) 

Translation* £ * Time is called KM a in the language of 
the Hindus. The era most famous among them, and in 
particular among their astronomers, is the N$hjfoi?a t he- 
the time of Hahi, This era is reckoned from the year of 
his destruction, because he was ruling (rather, tyrannising) 
over it (i.e. over that time). In this as well as in other 


360 


ALBERUNFS INDIA . 


eras it is the custom to reckon only with complete, not 
with incomplete or current years/* 

Then the author goes on to give rules for the comparison 
of the ftaka era with the Greek, Persian, and Muslim eras. 

A later author* ’Abu-Sa'id c A hd-alJ uiy y I bn Aldahlmk 
11m Mahmud Garden i (Garden, a town east of Gba/na), 
has reproduced the information of Albernni on the Saha 
e r a i n Pe rsi an . N ot b a v in g th e origin al (MS. Ou se ] ey 2 40 > 
Bodleian Library, Oxford) at my disposal E give a trans- 
lation made years ago : — 

£ h ’ Th e Ji in d u era is cal 1c d \ LCi t beca use J| l£ ( foi ft t ) m can s 
fftftt', and i^Ll (Soko) is the name of a king whose death 
w as i n ad e an era; he d id the J [ i ti dn s a gre at 1 leal of h arm, 
so they made the date of his death a festival” (Oxford 
man Li script, p. 352), 

The place Ktre-ih m is also mentioned in the Oharh att 
Vide Elliot, <( History of India/’ i. 139, i 43 f 2 QJ * 

P. 7. Al-arhwL — Of* note to i. 312. The book does 
not seem to exist in the collections of Arabic manuscripts 
in Europe* 

ft 8, — The pronunciation of the names Katiir, Bardari, 
Mdrigala, and Nirahara (Nlra-griha ?) is more or less con- 
jectu rah 

Alberimi identifies Mdritffda, with TohihaMla (voh ii* 
302), if. the Taxi I a of the ancients. The name dftirifjakt 
seems to be preserved in that of a range of hills hjinj otdtj 
t ■* 00 1 u if e* to the xo f t i h of Nh * t ht Ih ex l (0 c nniu gh a m , ' £ A u cien fc 
Geography of India/* p. in). The place is also mentioned 
in the To. hahtrti- Nd Vide Elliot, “History of India/ 1 
ii, 27T, 273. 

V. 9. — IJitHtthha, a native of Multan, is only twice men- 
tioned, Here Hie author quote? from him a method for 
the computation of the S&ka era, and p P 54 a method for 1 
the computation of ftlwrgann* According to him, the 
Indian year commenced with the month Marga^irsha, but 
the astronomers of Multan commenced it with Gaitra 
(p- io )- 

P. 10, BarhaiaMn -. — The mime occurs only in this one 




ANNOTATIONS. 


36 1 

place. It' it were an Indian name, 1 should think of so me- 
thing like] (or II it is 

Turkish, it is a compound, the second part of which is 
in-gin, (as in Toghrullnghi and similar names). As the 
author declares the dynasty to be of Tibetan origin, the 
rjnestiou is whether the name may be explained as Tibetan, 

P- iO> Var . — As the Arabic verb may be connected 
either with the preposition hi or with the accusative, we 
may read either her or vr. 

P. to, 1. 25. He hojtm to rretp oat. — In the Arabic text, 
p. r,V f S, read - instead of ^_;^Z 

] \ ii, KaniL '.- — Only the three consonants KNK are 
certain. We may read them Kanik or Kaniklm, which 
would be a Middle-Indian KrmU-hJm for Sanskritfc Kan- 
ixhfot.. Thus the name Turk was pronounced by the 
iMiddlR-Indi.au tongue as TuvukJthu, and San serif is ized as 
Tunwkhct. 

This Zopyrus- story was reproduced by Muhammad 
f An CL Of. Elliot, <F History of India/’ ii. 170. 

P. 13. Lagalihrmihu — The uncouth Formation of this 
name seems to point, to a Non- Indian (Tibetan?) origin. 
1 at first thought to combine it with the name of the 
Tibetan king, Lmgtarma, who abolished Buddhism, a.i>. 
899 (r, f Vmsep, “Useful Tables,” ii, 289), as our Lagatur- 
man was the last of a series of Buddhistic kings, and as 
the names resemble each other to some extent. However, 
this combination seems delusive. 

The name Kallar is written Kullr Could this name 

be combined With Kulu&ha (Kalusha ?), which r.g. occurs as 
the name of the Brahmin minister of the Mahratta Kaja 
Sambaj i ? 

P. 13. J. T 7. The Brahman hings ^ — The word saw nut ff 
means vassal, 

Kamalit- was a contemporary of the prince VAmr Tbn 
Laith, who died A. mgr 1, Cf r Elliot, History of India,” in 
172. Is the name a hypokoristikon of one like Kamcdav- 
ardhana i 


ALBERUNrS INDIA. 


3&2 

A tit t n f It t /i dla, Bhii uapt. i la : and 2 S ■ iteet t n v-j n dt i- i n ea 1 1 ha v- 
ing Sim as protector. If, therefore, these princes, like the 
I it do -Scythian kings (rf, Drouin, Jlcvuc Nummnntiqm, 
iSSS. 48) : were Siva- worshippers, wo must explain the 
name Jaip/it perhaps as Jt npi.pt i It t t j,e P fa tying Dnrgd (the 
wi fe 0 f Siva) t r$ p t i ota i 0 1 \ ( [f. the Hindu Id n gs of IC a bu 1 
i 11 E 1 1 iot, s ; Hi story of I n cl ia 7 y li. 403 scq . (in m any p 0 in t«s 
antiquated). 

The name Triloeavfqutln (here TttrTirynqml) has been 
much disfigured in the Arabic writing. Vide the Pnru 
Jaipal in Elliot, L<:„ ii. 47, 463, 464. 

V. ij,l. 14. The- lath v v. 7 HH hit / r v h — -T he A rabi c m an 11 - 
script has , which may be read J Lu ( nay rat a m rut) or 
JJj (inievfedm mi). I have not been able to ascertain 
whether the year in question was that of the enth r on i na- 
tion of Trilocanapula, or that of Ins death, I prefer, how- 
ever (with Remand), to read hr wax kdhyl” because 

evidently the author stood so near to the events in ques- 
tion that he could have ample and trustworthy informa- 
tion, and that, ill fact, an on dti ( Jjd) seems here entirely 
out of place. 

Ik 13, 1 . 22* The dd/Ith'd intuiting literally oar blow- 
i tip jl t r, a w el 1 -k 1 1 0 w 1 1 sim lie f or nabodtf . ( 7 1 c Hasan 

"Nizami in Elliot’s “History of India,” ii, 235, J. 13, 

Ik 15 — Pot Alfawirl and Yakub Ibn Tank, rf. note 
to L 165, i6g, 

Miththtinad Thu Jdt&T of Savtthks is mentioned only 
here and in the tables on pp. rC and rS, besides in 
Alber uni’s “ Chronology ” (English edition, p, .29), 

Ik 1 6, h 6 of the table. It is not clearly said in the 
text that the anomalistic revolution is meant, but the 
numbers which Alber uni quotes leave no doubt on the 
s ubj ect . The days of a k alpa arc 1.577,9(6,43 0,0 OO, w h ic h 
being divided by the number 57,265,194, 142, give for one 
revolution 27§l||4rFflH days, or days 13 h. iS min* 
33 sec., whilst the anomalistic revolution of the moon is 
equivalent to 27 days (3 li. iS min, 37 sec., an agreement 
so very close, that every doubt that there could be meant 


A KNOT A TIONS. 


3^3 


anything bat the anomalistic revolution is completely ex> 
eluded. Moreover, the number of the revolutions of the 
apsis, 488,105,838, being augmented by 57,265,194,142, is 
equal to 57,753,300.000, the number of sidereat revolu- 
tions; and, indeed, the revolutions of the apsis, j/hw the 
anomalistic revolutions, must be equal to the sidereal re- 
volutions {tSt'h mm )* 

P io + — The 'note in the table “The anomalistic revolu- 
tion of the moon is here treated,” &a, is nob quite clear, and 
probably materially incorrect- That the term £?U. 
means the anomaly (diwpaXut in Greek, Jsr/iuJrti (Kh'Tpou) 
in Sanskrit), was first pointed out to me by my friend and 
colleague, Prof, burster; but this note, which seems tu be 
intended as a sort of explanation of the term, does not, 
exactly render what astronomers understand by wnmiwltf. 
Li be ral 1 y translat e d it ru ns thus: “ ; The M d ti -aih* m <* r 
stands in the place of the apsi% because the- result is its 
(whose ? the apsis’ ?) share, since it (the hd$$fd-ttlhf mifr) 

is the difference between the two motions ” (_ U J 

U t c & (not *1} jl <^0), 

Accordingly, we must translate the term as ^falling to 
the moon as her lot or share.” viz., movement, in Arabic 

.a£\ Therefore, in the Arabic text, pp. 

!\ * and F 1 ** 8 write instead of 

R 1 Q r — Abu-alliasan of Ahwfiz is mentioned only in 
this place. He seems to have been a contemporary of 
Alfasari and Yakub I bn Tfirik + 

P. 20 . A n u & jj romid inf 1 timis* — Vv 1 * ‘ I he an th or s 
( ( 0 h ro □ ology ” ( Er sgl 1 sh edition), p_ 73. Mah mi fm * , i n 
Hindu stan i a t a i a <<U„ YvJ * ■ Dow son , “Hi n d u s ta n i G ram - 
mar,” p* 25S. 

Ih 2 i , L 24* — A caturyuga or 4,320,000 solar years con- 
sists of 53.433,300 Umar months or 1,602,999,000 lunar 
days; so ono solar year has 3/ 1-AV bmar days, and the 
difference between the solar and lunar days of a. year is 
1 lyVr- The proportion 360 Lunar days: 1 1 3 UV days 
~x lunar days : 30 days gives for x the number of 


A LB BRUNTS INDIA . 


3 6 4 

97 6 -yyV, which is equivalent to 976 A'tVm- p« 3 4 

1- S3 (AtAz-awt)* 

]•', 2 2, 1 , 17. — Head 22’" instead of 23'' 1 (&:h .mm.). 

I 1 . 23. Ptphnudstf . — This seems to be an old mistake 
which has crept into the Arabic manuscripts of the works 
o f A1 f azi ri an c 1 Y a k ft b . ( 7 . tl 10 author's fi fi Cl i ron ol 0 gy J 1 
(English edition}, p. 15. 

I 1 . 27. -The rule given in the first, fifteen Shies of this 
page is completely erroneous, and consequently the ex- 
ample calculated after this rule is so too. The right 
method would be the following : — t: The complete years are 
multiplied by 1 2 ; to the product are added the months 
which have elapsed of the current year* The sum repre- 
sents the partial solar months. Yon write down the 
number in two places; in the one place you multiply it 
by 5311, ?/■. the number which represents the universal 
adhinmsa months. The product you divide by 172,800, 
ix, the number which represents the universal solar 
months. The quotient yon get, m/nr * /x if <x m/mV- m-m- 
■plrfe month#, is added to the number in the second place, 
and the sum so obtained is multiplied by 30; to the pro- 
duct are added the days which have elapsed of the current, 
month. The sum represents the can drSharga n a, i- ( - the 
sum of the partial lunar days/' These two proceedings 
would be identical, if we were not to omit fractions ; but 
as an adhimilsa month is only intercalated when it is com- 
plete. we must first determine the number of adhim&sa 
mouths, and, o/nUfitit/ tfa' /mrVrw, change them to days; 
whilst when we multiply beforehand by 30, the fractions 
of the adhimilsa month $ are also multiplied, which is 
not correct. This is at once seen in the example which 
he works out after this rule, and we wonder that Albe- 
runi himself did not see it. He is calculating the aliar- 
gun as for the beginning of a year, consequently also for 
the beginning of a month, and, notwithstanding, he is not 
at all surprised to find (p. 30) 28 days and 51 minutes of 
the month already passed. 

The adhimnsa days are nothing else than adhimilsa 
months converted into days. As the number of the ad hi- 


ANNOTATIONS. 


365 

inilsa months must be a whole, so the number of the 
adhim&sa days must be divisible by 30, Accordingly, the 
number quoted, p. 29, L 30, not being divisible by 30, is 
at once recognised as erroneous t and it is astonishing when 
he says, m the following lines, ( * If. in multiplying and 
dividing, we lmd used the months, we should have found 
the adliimft.su months and multiplied by 30, they would be 
equal to the here-mentioned number of adhlnuusa days.” 
In this case certainly the number ought to be divisible 
by 30. Perhaps he would have found the fault, if not, 
by a strange coincidence, the difference between the true 
value and the false one had been exactly 28 days or 
four complete weeks, so that though the number con- 
sidered is an erroneous one, yet he finds, ]>. 30, 1. 9, the 
right week-day. 

Albers ini finds, p. 29. L 2, as the sum of days from 
the beginning of the kalpa to the seventh man van tar a 
676,610073,760* Portlier, he finds, 1. 7. that from the 
beginning of the seventh ntanvuntara till the beginning of 
the present caturyugn there have elapsed 42,603.744. 1 50 
days, and, L f 2, that till the beginning of the kaliyuga 
t b en r h ave el a pied 1 , 4 2 o, 1 24 , So 3 d ay s of th 0 pro sen r cat 1 1 r- 
yuga* Adding these numbers, we find that the sum of 
days elapsed from the beginning of the kalpa to that of the 
caturyuga is 720,634.442.713 ; but as he finds, p. 30, h 5, 
that from the same epoch to the gauge-date there have 
elapsed 720.635,95 1,963 days, so the gauge-date would be 
1 , 5 09, 2 4 8 d ay s after the hegi nniug of th e kali}- uga . N 0 w 
we know that the gauge-date is 25th February 1031 (see 
p. 2, 1 . 17, and note), or the day 2,097,686 of' the Julian 
period, whilst the first day of the kaliyuga, as is generally 
known, coincides with the 1 8th February 3102 before 
t -hiist or with the day 588,466 of the Julian period, so 
(bat the difference of the two dates is 1,509,220, and not 
1,509,248 days. 

To this result we shall also come when working out 
Albeimnbs example after the method stated in the begin - 
u in g of i ) 1 is n ole . 1 n at e ad of p . 29, 1 . 1 6 , w e si 1 0 1 1 1 d t b en 
have: the years which have elapsed of the kalpa up to 
1 1 l at year are 1.972.948,132. Multiplying them by 12, we 
get as the number of their months 23,675,377,584, In 
the date which wo have adopted as gauge-year there Is 


3^6 


A LB BRUNTS INDIA, 


no month, bnt only complete years; there tore we have 
nothing to add to this number. It represents the par- 
tial solar months. We multiply it by 53 J I and divide 
the prod u ct by 172,800: the quotient 727,66 1,63 3 
represents the adhimhsu months. Omitting the frac- 
tions, we add 727,661,633 to the partial solar months 
23^7S-377 iS84i and g^t 24403,039,2 17 as the partial 
lunar months. By multi plying this number by 30 we 
get days, viz., 732,091,176,510, As (here are no days 
in the normal date, we have no days to add to this 
number. Multiplying it by 55,739 and dividing the pro- 
duct by 3,562,220, wh get the partial fina'i&tra days, viz., 
1 r 4 ; 3 . 2 2 4 , 5 7 5 1 -jJ J 2 1! . f l ’fa 1 s sum of d ay s w i t h out th e 
fraction is subtracted from the partial lunar days, and the 
re mail x do r . 7 20, 63 5 ,9 5 f , 9 3 3 , repres ants 1, 1 1 c n u m bcr of 1 3 i a 
civil days of our gauge-date. Dividing it by 7, we got as 
remainder 4, which means that the last of Lhese days is a 
Wednesday, Therefore the Indian year commences with 
a r H 1 u r sd ay , T 1 1 e cl i fife re n ce 1 j et . w ecu 7 20,6 3 5 .9 5 1 ,9 3 5 
an d the begi lm in g of th c k aliy rr ga 7 2 o, 6 3 4 . . 44 2,713 ] 
as it ought lo be, 1,509.220 days (Sehrtm)* 

in the beginning of chap. Hi. ? in the Arabic text, r >1. 8, 
it. seems necessary to write and instead of 1 j 

and +'Jt\ m 
i ■■ 

P, 29, 1 . 10* Thursday *— The Arabic manuscript has 
Tuesday. 

P- 30,. 1 - 10-17. This ought to run as follows 1 — We have 
found ah o ve 727,661,633 - 3 } j % g for the ad him ftsa n 1 on th s ; 
the wholes represent- the number of the adhinmsas which 
have elapsed, viz., 727,661,633, whilst the fraction is the 
lime which has already elapsed of the current adhirr.iasa 
month. By multiplying this fraction by 30 we get it 
expressed in days, viz,. Y-at days, or 28 days 51 minutes 
30 second.* so that the current ad hitniba month wants only 
1 day 8 minutes 30 seconds more to become a complete 
month (Schmm), 

P. 3 1, I* 19. —The number 1,203,783,270 h found by 
adding the 30 x 1,196,525 or 35*895.750 adhimflsa days to 
the 1 967,887,520 .solar days (jSVi-ram)* 




AN NOT A TIONS. 


$f>7 


h + 3 I, b 24+ — The number of days from the beginning 
of the catuiyuga to the gauge-date is here: found by 
Pitlisa's method to be 1484,947,570, whilst p, 33, 1. i 6 T 
the number of days from the beginning of the catmyuga 
to L 1 1 at of t h e kaliy uga is found to be 1 T 1 S 3 , 4 3 S , 3 50, The 
difference between both numbers is (as it. ought to be) 
1,509.220 days (Nmrt (}}(). 

P. 33, L 24. — The method of Aryabhata is the same 
as that given be tore, only the numbers bv which we are to 
multiply and to divide, are different according to his system, 
which supposes a different number of revolutions in a 
kal pa . Accor d in g to A ry ab 1 1 at a 1 1 1 e el d e r , a catu ry u ga h as 
1,377,917,500 days (sec vol. L p. 370, 1 . 28). As to the 
revolutions of sun and moon r they seem to be the same 
as given by Hu lisa. The fables, pages 16 and 17, are not 
quite correct in this, as they give, for instance, for the 
revolutions of the moon's node and apsis the lOOOtb part 
of their revolutions in n kalpa, whilst in vol. i. p* 3 70, L 
i6 + it. is said that, according to Pnlisa and Aryabhata, the 
h al j >a \ 1 as 1 008 cat 1 1 ry n g rif . B 1 1 1 p. [ 9, L 1 5 , th 0 11 u m b 0 is 
4.320,000 for the sun and 57.753,336 for the # moon are 
given as possibly belonging to the theory of Aryabhata. 
The same numbers are cited by Bentley in his "Historical 
View of the Hindu Astronomy / * London, [825, p. 17 9, as 
belonging to the system of the so-called spurious Ary a 
Sidd bantu. It is doubtless the same system, for if we 
compare the number of days between the beginning of the 
kalpa and that of the kaliyuga, which Bentley states in 
t he a hove -cite d book, p. iSl, to he 725 ,44 ? , 5 70, 625, w itl 1 
the- same mm quoted by Albenmi, p. 33, 1 , 29, there can 
scarcely be a doubt as to the identity of both systems, 
especially as this number 725447.570.623 is a curious 
one, giving Thursday for the first day of the kalpa, whilst 
the other systems give Sunday for this date. Of this book 
Bentley says, p. 183 : “It would be needless to waste any 
more time in going over its contents, what It as been 
shown must be perfectly sufficient to convince any man 
of common sense of its being a downright modern for- 
gery ; !> and p. 190, “The spurious Brahma Biddhanta, 
together with the spurious Ary a Siddbanta, arc doubtless 
the p rod u cti on 3 of the last cen t u ry a t fart I10 st. * ’ Be r h ups 


36B 


A L BE RUNTS INDIA. 


be would have chosen more reserved expressions, if he had 
known that this “production of the last century" was 
already cited by AlberimL 

When we adopt these- numbers, for a catnrynga, te. 
1,5 77,917*500 civil days, 4,3^0,000 revolutions of the sun 
and 57,753,336 revolutions of the moon, and consequently 
5 3.433 ! 33® lunar months, we End the numbers belonging 
to a yuga by dividing the above numbers by four, as in 
this system the four yugaa are of equal length. Thus 
we get for a yuga 394,479,375 civil days, 1,080,000 solar 
years, and consequently 12,960,000 solar months, and 
3 8 8 , 8oo, OOO solar d ay M 3 , 3 5 8, 3 3 d 1 11 narm on tl 1 S400, 7 3 op 20 
lunar days, 398,334 adhinmsa months, and 6,270,64; 
iLnaru tra days. To find the n inn ber 72 5,449,079, 84 5 men- 
tioned, p, 33, L 31, as the sum of days between the be- 
ginning of the kalpa and the gauge-date, we are to proceed 
as follows '“-From the beginning of the kaliynga to our 
gauge- date there have elapsed 4132 years, which multi- 
plied by 12 give 49,584 as the partial solar months. This 
number multiplied by the universal adhimiisa months 
398,334, and divided by the universal solar months 
12,960,000. gives 1 523 -oilS as the number of acllnmusa 
months. This number, without the fraction added to the 
solar months 49,584, gives 51,107 as the number of the 
partial lunar months, which multiplied by 30 gives 

1.533.2 10 as the n u m b er of th e [ >ar ti al 1 u n ar d ay s , Th i 9 
number multiplied by the universal finarabra days 6 ,270, 64 5 
and divided by the universal lunar days 400,750,020 
gives 4 1 7 S as the sum of the partial iinarsttra 
days; and 23,990 subtracted from the partial lunar days 

1.533.210 gives r, 509,220 as the civil days elapsed of the 
kaliynga till the gauge- date, identical with the number 
found in note to p. 27. These 1, 509. 220 days added to the 
725,447,570,62; days which separate the beginning of tire 
kalpa and the kaliynga, give the number of 725,449,079,845 
days cited p. 33, 1. 3 1, Finally, the number of days elapsed 
of Brahmans life before the present kalpa, is got. by multi- 
pi y i n g the nu m b cr of days in a k al pa, i, ( \ . .5 90, 5 40 . 840,000 
(see page 370, vol. i + ) by 60 68, the number of the kalpas 
elapsed before the present one (Schratfi). 

V. 34- h 32. — There is heret.be same fault as that which 


ANNOTATIONS. 


369 


led Alberimi to a false result, p, 27. Tbe multiplier t.ioLi 
by 30 must be made after dropping the fraction of the 
adhmmsa months, not before (Sckmm). 

1\ 36, 1. T + — The lacuna most have contained a phrase 
1 [ ke this; — ; ’ I n t [1 r ee d iff ere n t p l apes ; t.l 1 ey ] 1 1 ul tipi y t.h e 
Member in the lowest place by 77, and divide the product 
by 69,1 20.” This follows dually from the explanation 
which he gives in the following page (Sc/iram). 

F. 36, 1. 9, — -Head lunar instead of solttr T in the Arabic 
(r re, 7, hist word), 7 j instead of 

If, 36, 1 . 10* — The expression is a. very concise one, so 
that it is not quite clear what, is meant (1. 14) by the 
i: middle number/' — It is to be understood in the follow- 
ing manner: “This number of tbe partial lunar days is 
written down in two different places, one under the other. 
The one of these is “in the uppermost place’' (b 17); 
they multiply the lower number by 11, a.] id write t lie 
product under iL Then they divide it, i.€. the product, 
by 403,963, and add the quotient to the middle number, 
ix. to the product of eleven times the partial lunar days 
{Schrftm), 


If 36, 1 . 26. — A certain number of months A Is to bo 
divided by C57J/A, If we wish to get the same result 
by dividing only by 65, we must subtract from A a cer- 
tain number A which is to be determined by the equation 

—A — . This pf I nation gives for A the value 

r LIT- c ' n 


X- 4 /ANr)- or » red))Ce( l' V =.4 ( T7 n,Wiyiir)’ or ab la - b 

°Si iwAv 

A" A( ...j. The equation J -A{ j can also 

vG 5 A iibV 


be written in the form 65 ,VA=ct : T??\l\w, — : A. that is, as 

Alberuni states it ("I. 30), e< Lhe whole divisor stands in 
1 h e sar 1 t e rel i itii o ] 1 to it s tract io us as t.h e di vi d ed 11m 1 1 be 1 ■ to 
the subtracted portion” (Sch-rttm). 


P. 36, l. 33. — Alberum has not made tbe calculation given 

mu. IT. 2 A. 


3 /o 


A LB EE UN PS INDIA. 


above in a general way, but be has made it only for a 
special case, for the gauge-date* He finds the fraction 
ttit Vstfi which he would find for every other date, as this 
fraction is independent of the number A (JSchmm)* 


R 37, 1 . 26 , — Here again a certain number of finai-ntra 
days A is to be divided by 63 If we wish to got 

the same result by dividing only by 63]^ or, which, is the 
same, by 7 /V^ must add to A a certain number X t which 
is determined by the equation 


= — -R ftr A + X=A 
*#-. :W1 

" \ 7omm ) 


{ ?f>3 \ 0fX=A /7os-i i ><mm%\ 

\n zmm) \~Tt xf^mr ) 

urX = A {Jd&* {—$ ^ ^ 

V-i- c V^-/ V39(»i4 30/ 


or at last, dividing numerator and denominator by 97, we 
The :J U - are neglected (sec p. 38, h 9) 


find X= - A 


( Echram ). 


403963. jV 


P. 38, L 23.- -The Arabic manuscript has 77. 1:39, instead 
of 7 739* as Dr. Schram demands; v. p, 39, 1 , 7, and p. 40, b 8, 


P. 39, 1 . 20, — Hera lie grants that the 28 days which 
we get over 727,661,633 months are to be reckoned after 
the beginning of the month Caitra, so that the result 
found, p, 29, 1. 30, agrees with the 28th* not with the first 
C ultra (Schrem-). 

R 39, 1. 24. — The middle number was multiplied by 
i'Hil * solar year has 3^5 "Ui 0- 3 < 5 ), 01-52 weeks 
] day and fRi J- of a day, By adding the product of the 
number of years multiplied by to this number itself, 
we get the sum of days by which these years exceed 
whole weeks* The rest of the calculation is sufficiently 
explained by Alberuni himself ( Schram). 

R 41, 1. ry. — This is the same case as p. 36, only the 
numbers are a little different. If A is the number of 
months to be divided by and we wish to sub- 

tract a number from A so as to get the same result by 


ANNOTATIONS « 


37i 


dividing the difference by 32 only, we have the equation 


A _ _ A x 


which gives lor X the value 


{ wUH# \ 
\32mttJ 


or X = A or A- 4 / ""A 

Vsiboeoo/ \ 67 500/ 


Albefimi has again made the calculation for a special case, 
the gauge-date, and found the same fraction (Scknm). 

J\ 41, h 20. — ,£ Tli is number of days/’ via,, the number 
of solar days corresponding to the given date (Schiam), 


T\ 41, 1 . 33.- — The MS. has 974 instead of 976. 

P, 42, J. 3. — The number of solar days, 1,555,222.000, 
is here taken as divisor instead of the number of iidhimusa 
1 ii on th b , 1,593,33 6. r l ’ll e f r anti n n on gli t t u be 976-3 1 * \, l : . L °. 

— 97^>3VW[m the common divisor 24 (&hrtui) t 


TV 42, L 6. — Alberuni does not seem, to have understood 
Pulba’s calculation, which is correct, although there seems 
to be a lacuna in its explanation. According to Pu lisa’s 
theory, there are in a eatery uga 1,5 5 5, 200, Don solar days 
and 1 ? 5 93 1 3 36 ad him a sa m 011th s. Di v idin g the first n u ru- 
ber by the second, wo get. as the time within which an 
ad hi m usa m on t h s u m s u p Q? 6 j r ! k ;i WW' day s, So 0 n e won Id 
get the number of ad hi mas a months by dividing the given 
number of solar days by the number 976 iVg'V&Vir i hut 
Pul iso prefers not to reckon with the fraction, so he 
diminishes the number of given days by a certain amount 
and divides only by 976, The number which is to be 
subtracted from the given days is easily found by the 
following equation r — 

Let I) lie the number of given solar days ; we then have 


D 


n - x 
976 


or X=D ( 1 ^ or x = D 

nr y — I) i ' V 


1( mWV 


Now 384 is a common divisor to 104,064 and the divisor 
1,555,200,000, So we get AT= 1^77^^1117! just as Pn lisa 
finds it ( Schmitt). 


372 


ALBERUNFS INDIA. 


Ph 42, h 22, — Not. only is it not " quite impossible that 
tins number should, in this part of the calculation, be used 
as a divisor,” but it needs must be used ns a divisor. 
This we see at once when, instead of working out the cal- 
culation with special numbers, we make it algebraically. 
Let 8 be the number of solar days in a caturyuga, and A 
the number of adhimusa months in a caturyiiga. Then the 
nu m b er of days; wi t hin w 1 j icli one ad 1 1 ltn usa mentis sums 
up, will be found by dividing 8 by A. By this division 
we shall get -wholes and a fraction ; let the wholes be 
represented by Q and the numerator of the fraction by li. 

We then have *' = Q or S=AQ R Now if, the 

Ji. ^”4 


given number of solar day s being J), we have to divide I) 
by Q ^ to get. the number of adhimasa months, but as 


we wish to divide by Q alone, we must subtract from 1 ) 
a number X, which will be found by the equation 



I>- x 
H 



As AQ -li is equal to 8 , we have X = l) 


li 

8 ' 


where 8 is the 


number of solar days in acaturyuga, which must necessarily 
bo a divisor in this part of the calculation (Sckram). 


P. 42. 1. 31. — As 0110 fmara.tr a day sums up in 63 ? 5 ■[ 
lunar days (see p. 37, 1. jy) p we have again the equation 

SW ¥" r!=I (Ss )" I=Itrf « B ' 1 

w \ 1 e r- 1 L rep re so nt s the nu m be 1 1 1 1 f 1.1 1 \ j gj v e n ] u 11 ar day s r 


P. 44, l r l — T he number 720,635,951,963 is not 
correct, as we have seen in note to p, 27. It is too 
great by 28 days. But the number of adhimusa days, 
21.829.849,018 (1. 10), is also 28 days too great. So the 
difference is again correct There is the same fault as at 
p. 2 7 . The calc u \ atioi 1 cn 1 gl 1 1 . to r li 11 us f bl 1 0 w s. i ■ — -T 1 le p ar- 
tial civil days which have elapsed up to our gauge-date are 
720,635^951,935. This number is given, and what we 


ANNOTATIONS. 


373 


want to iind is how many India]! years and months are 
equal to this sum of days, First we multiply the num- 
ber by 53,739 and divide the product by 3, 506.4ft r ; the 
i] uoiient is ti .4 5 5 , 224,5 7 3 1 'i ■ ■ f f! i' Aim r&lra days. We add 
] 1,455,224.575 .to i be civil days; the sum is/32,09 1,176,5 to 
lunar days. Dividing this number by 30, we get as quo- 
tient 24403,039,217 lunar months (and no fraction ; so we 
see that the date hi question consists o'" a number of 
month a only, ur. what is the same, that the date corre- 
sponds to the beginning of a month). Multiplying the 
lunar months by 5311 and dividing the product by 1 78, n 1, 
we get 727,66 1 ,633 [ L , j adhimusa months ; 727,661,633 
ad him as a months s u bt rac ted fro m t.h e 2 4 , 403 ,039,267 
lunar months give 23,675,377,584 solar months, which 
divided by 12 give 1,972,948,132 years and no fraction. 
So we- find the given date corresponding not only to 
the beginning 0 f a 1 1 1 on 111, but al so to 1 1 l at of a y e a 1 ■ . We 
sin'] the same number of years of which the gauge -date 
consists (see p. 2Q h b 17) (S^hram), 

1 \ 45, 1 . 12. — This rule must indeed be based on some 
co 1 1 1 [A ete misunde r sta n d lug. for i t i ? ab so I ute ! y e rro 1 1 eo ti s, 
as ASberuni rightly remarks (SckytutA). 

1 J , 46, 1 . J, — If we calculate from the beginning of the 
katpa or the catnrynga, there are in the epoch neither 
f ract io s 1 s of tl j e ad 3 1 i ni as a 1 1 1 01 1 i lis n 0 r of u s 1 a rfi t ra d ay s ; 
but as the great number ol days embraced by such long 
periods makes the calculation wearisome, the methods set 
forth in this chapter start neither from the beginning of 
the kalpa nor from that of the caturyuga, but from dates 
chosen arbitrarily and nearer to the time for which they 
are tn be employed. As such epochs are not free from 
fractions of the adhimfha months and unaratra days, these 
fractions must, be taken into account (ScJinna). 

It 46, 1 . 27. — The numbers employed here do not belong 
to Brah m agupt as, but to Puli ea s s sy s te m . T h e j ear Lake n 
as epoch is the year 5 87 Saha kuki. As we have seen, p. 3 T t 
II. 8 io f that tn the moment of the beginning of our 
gauge -date or of the year Sakai; fils 953 , there have elapsed 
3.24 4 . 1 3 2 y ears of the cat u ry 11 ga, the re m u st h ay 0 el apsed 


374 


ALBERUNPS INDIA. 


3,243,766 years of the caturyuga till Hie beginning of the 
year 587 Sakai; A, la. We in it hit now first calculate the 
adhimasa months and iinatifcra days for this epoch. After 
I hi lisa's method (p. 41, 1, 29), we have: 3,243,766 years 
are equal to 38*925. .192 solar mouths or 1,167,755,760 
solar days. This number multiplied by 271 and divided 
by 4,050,000 gives 78,138;!!' .1 ;J . A s here the nearest mi m- 
her Is to be taken, wo get 78,139, which* subtracted from 
1,165, 755,7^0, gives r 467:677,62 3, This latter number 
divided by 976 gives as the number of ad him Asa months 
1,19 6, 3 9 1 , 1 N >; 1 w 1,196*3 9 1 rid fifn t fi sa m on t.l is ai *e eq it ■ 1 1 
to 3 5 ,891,730 ad hi mas a days, which, added to 1 . 1 67*75 5,760 
solar days* give 1 ,203,647.490 lunar days. According to 
Ih 1 lisa’s theory (see p. 26, L 9), there are in a caturyuga 
r .603 , 000,0 80 1 1 mar a 1 t d 25,082,280 uu a r A r ra d ay s ; so 01 1 e 
iiiwfttra day sums up in 63^^44 lunar days. Therefore 
we should have to divide the given number of lunar days 
L by 63 ;; jj ! ;J , but; we prefer to subtract from L a certain 
number A\ and to di vide the rest by 63 ] y or The 

j L — T 

n umber X will be given by the equation . — ' ? = Y - f- = 


11 7 — t 1 , V 
7*3 


This equation gives for A" the value X 


'■■7 0 3?n!'T : r^ 


L or J: 


Y 439 
'-.48980558 


i ii s73 iV-e 


or nearly 11 X = 

11 T 573 

Now Z being equal to j ,203,647,490 1 1 mar days, 11 L wall 
be equal to 13,240422,390 Umar days; this number di- 
v Lded by 111,573 gives 1 1 8 , 667 4 y , 1 y ; % . Tak i rig the lie a res t 
number, we subtract 1 1 8,668 from 1 3,240,1 22,390 and get- 
13, 240, 003, 722, which divided by 703 gives 1 8,833,575 
as the number of unaifttra days. This added to the 
1 ,203,647,490 lunar days gives for the date of our epoch 
the number of civil days 1484,813,913. 

This number divided by 7 gives 5 as remainder. Now 
the last day before the present caturyuga was a Mon- 
day (see p. 33 : b 11), therefore the Last day before our epoch 
is a Saturday, and any number of days elapsed sir toe 
that epoch if divided by 7 will indicate by the remainder, 
the week-day counted from Sunday as i, as it is said, 
p. 47. L 19. Now the whole method is easily recognised 


ANNOTATIONS. 


375 


as thoroughly correct. Instead of multiplying the partial 
solar days by , we multiply them by , . a , 7i which 

is suftici.en fcly correct, as it} -jyj is equal to 7 _ • 

r -Q'l 4 -7 3 

As besides the whole adhirniisa months there is yet a 
f ra n t i o i i of , , f ad h ins asa months in our epocl i , we ad d 5 
before dividing by 976. The calculation of the frnarutra 
days it as already been es plained; bill as. in our epoch 
besides the whole unarutra days there is still a fraction of 
f iJ l fmanUra days, we must add 497 before dividing by 
703. The whole proceeding is thus explained (Schrum^. 

P- 48, I. 11. The calculation has been made for the 
complete years elapsed fa', fore onr gauge- date. So we get 
the week-day of the last, day Iftfore the first Caitra of the 
gauge- date, and if this is a Wednesday , the first Caitra 
itself is a Thursday ; rj\ p. 30, h 9* 

The first day of this epoch corresponds to the day 
1,964,031 of the Julian period. Adding 133,655 to 
1,964,031, we have for the first Caitra 953 the day 
2,097,686 of the Julian period, as it ought to be (Schraui). 

P. 48, 1 21. — Tin 1 1 8th 1 . stand farm ad h of Yazdajird 399 
corresponds in fact to Wednesday, 24th February 1031, 
the day before the first Caitra 933 Sahakala (see note to 
p. 2, L [7) (Schram}, 

If 49, h 32 - % sli) ymrs . — The Arabic manuscript has 
seven instead of si>\ 


it go, h 1*- The method here employed is based on 
Pnlisa f s theory. According to this theory, the solar days 
mu st be t 1 iv id e d by 976 -/,■ ; \ ;[*] , to get the. ad 1 1 i in ft s a m ontli s . 
Xniv 9 ; 6 ^W with sufficient accuracy is equal to 976 A l7 
r>r s as 

Ol j; ft ♦ 

If S represents the number of solar months, the solar 
days or 30 S are to be divided by -7^=-, or, what is the 
same, 900 A must be divided by 29283. 

To get the unaratra days, the lunar days must be 
di v i d ed by 6 3 f ; '■$ f £ (see u ote top- 46, 1 . 2 7 ), No w 6 3 f J § I i ! 


is equal 


1 1 


376 


4LBERUNPS INDIA. 


or at least equal to Bo the multiplications and 

divisions of this method, are explained. 

The constant numbers which are to be added, are in- 
herent to the epoch. The year 88 S Sakak&la corresponds 
to the year 3,244,067 of the cam ry u ga ; 3,244,067 years 
are equal to 38,928,804 solar months, or 1,167,864,120 
solar days, The.se solar months multiplied by 66,389 and 
d i v i d ed by 2, 160 ,000 g i v e 1496.502 L j J ' §■ ; ; at J 1 1 i 1 n h sa 
months, 0.1 1 35.895,060 adhim&sa days. This added to the 
1,167, S64 420 s olcir day 5 gi ves 1 ,20 3 ,759480 1 n r \ a r d a y s , 
Eleven times this number is equal to 13^241,350,980; this 
latter number divided by nr, 57 3 gives 1 1 8678AVAV 
or the nearest number n 8,679* Subtracting this from 
13,241,35 0,9 So j tli e re m ainde r is 1 3,24 1 .232,301 , w h i el 1 
being divided by 703. gives T 8,835^323 = 4 unar/itra days; 
these days subtracted from the lunar days give for the 
11 u m b er of ci v i 1 day 5 1 , 1 84 , 92 3 ,8 5 7 . D i vi dill g this l ast 
number by 7, we get the remainder 5 ; and as the last day 
before the present caturyuga was a Monday (see p. 33, 
1. n )* the last day before the epoch here adopted is a 
Saturday, so that any number of days elapsed since that 
epoch, if divided by /, will indicate by the remainder 
the week-day counted from Sunday as 1. The Jirst day 
of this epoch corresponds to the day 2,073.973 of the 
Julian period. We have found in our epoch the fraction 

6 6 Q ^ "T «! T 0 

of adhimasa month r^n-S ibn which is equal to ' 1 ' lWllt '' 

29282 

or ve ry 1 1 earl y !;• 5 j .. ad h i r n a sa m on 1 1 1 , so w e m u st ad d 
66 1 before dividing by 29282. 


The fraction of linaratra da vs Ms- is equal to 

* £10902 

or nearly to Therefore we must add 96,60 1 before 

di v id in g b v 2 1 0,902 , Alberuni has, in ete ail 0 f t hi 3 m 11 n b c r 
69,601, the number 64406, 4 instead of 9, and the last 
three numbers reversed (Sckrani). 


If 50, h 35. We had 780 months; adding thereto the 
23 adhimasa month we have 803 months, which being 
multiplied by 30 give 24090, and not 24060 days. All the 
following faults are the con sequences of this one (Schrain). 


T. 51, h 2, — It ought to be t: adding thereto 69,601 , we 


AN NOT A T10NS r 


377 


get tl 1 1/ sum 79, 566,601 . By dividing [i by 210.902, we 
go t the c } uoti 01 it 377, t. e. u n ara t ra day s, ami a rein a in d ft r 0 f 
v'Vimj'm 7 - * the avamtts” (In the Arabic text, p, r T V, 17, 
the reading of the MS. ought not to have been altered.) 
The correct result is 23,713 civil days. If we divide 
tiiis mi 111 her by 7, we find the remainder 4, which shows 
again that the last day before our gauge -date is a 
Wednesday, By adding 23.713 to 2.073.973, we get for 
the first Cait.i-a 953 the day 2,097,686 of the Julian period, 
as it ought to be {Svkmnt)* 

P, 5 1 : 1 . 4. — Bead 377. Instead of 307. 

Jk 51, i. 9, — This method works with numbers much 
less accurate than the preceding ones. It is assumed that 
on e ad 1 1 i in &aa 1 11 01 if h su ms n p in 32 A sol ar n 1 0 n th b . Sc the 
solar months are divided by 324 or by - f a, nr, what is the 
same, they are multi plied by for the time within 

which art imariitra day sums up, there is simply taken 
63 \ '6 and the lunar days are divided by 63] or 7 ;Vh or, 
what ia the same, multiplied by - : \ r l . i . The epoch cor re- 
sponds to the year 427 Sakakala, or the year 3.243.606 
of the catnryuga. Tin's number of years is equal to 
38,923,272 solar months, which, multiplied by 66,389 
and divided by 2,160,000, give 1 , 196,331 3 -jj-J-J-g- adhiuuisa 
months. The author lias taken 1 . 196,332 adhimusa mouths 
and neglected the little fraction . i -}j ( i ir>o , i so that he has no 
Tract i 0 1 1 s o f a d him asa 1 1 10 ut 1 1 s. T \ j e se 1 , 1 96, 332 ail 1 1 i tn as-ti 
months added to Llio 38,923,272 so Jar months give 
40,119,604 lunar months or T .203. 588. i 20 lunar days. 
Mill t i p I y j n g by 1 1 , w e 1 1 a ve 13,239, 469 .320, w 1 l I ch d i v id ed 
by 1 J 1,573 gives 1 18.661 or 1 18.662. Subtracting 

this from 1 3,239.469,320, we have 13,239,350,658, which 
di v id ed by 703 gives 18,832,646^ lor Use timn be r of 
lirmmtra days. So the fraction of nnai-Ura days is •; =?-!!-. 
very near to that adopted by the author of the method, via*, 
4 ■, j. , I >y s u btractin g the ft naratra d ay s f roi j 1 the 1 unar d ay s 
w e get as th e nu m her 0 1 ‘ civ il d ay s 1 , 1 8 4 , 7 5 5 . 474, w h ic h 
is d i v I si b 1 e by 7, Si s , as tl i e 1 aet d ay be To re t J 1 0 ca L u ry u ga 
was Monday, the last day before this epoch is also Monday, 
and the number of days elapsed since this epoch if divided 
by 7, will give a remainder which indicates the week-day, 


37S 


ALBERUNVS INDIA > 


counting Tuesday as i. The first day of this epoch corre- 
sponds to tbe day i ,905,590 of the J ulian period (Nek ram), 

[\ 51, L 24. II. is easily understood why t.liis method 
is called that, of the Siddluinta of the G reek s. It is assumed 
that an adhimusa month sums up in 32! or solar months, 
Now solar months are- equal to y solar years. There- 
fore this method is apparently an application of the cycle 
of nineteen years of the Greeks (SNtr'na). 

V. c,2 ? L 2 . — 32 months 17 days 8 gliati and 34 cashaka 
are only another expression for 32] months (Schnn/t)* 

1 \ 5-r I* TO,- — The number of civil days is 192096’ 
dividing by 7, we have as remainder 2, As in this method 
(see note to p, 51,1. 9) Tuesday is to be reckoned as i t 
this gives for the last day before our gauge-date Wednes- 
day* Adding 192,096 to 1 ,905 .590, we get as the first 
Uaitra 953 the day 2,097,686 of the Julian period, as it 
ought to be [Sckvtrytf). 

i\ 52. 1 . 20. Al-hiirkan . — This hook is mentioned only 
in this passage. Tha author calls it, a vn mn, -Nj' i.r. a 
collection of astronomical, chronological r and astrological 
tables and calculations* Whether it was an original com- 
position in Arabic or translated from Sanskrit, and from 
what original, we do not learn from him. The word seems 
to be an 2V ra blc r ender in g of ' x lu * 1 ;r/r; f na . A lbennti q u ntes 
from tins book the computation of an era the epoch of 
which falls 40,08 t days later than that of the Persian era, 
and compares it with the gauge-date (p, 53). 

P. 52, b 22.- -If the epoch should Fall 40,081 days after 
ill at of the era Yazdajird, it would fall on the first Caitra 
of the year 664 Sakukula: but this is not the case. The 
first of Sha'bun of the year 197 coincides with the begin- 
ning of A aisakha 733. .As there are 72 years to be sub- 
tracted. we should come to Yairitklia 663, and to begin 
with the beginning of a ye&r t l he epoch must be postponed 
to Caitra 664. But this is of no importance, as we shall 
see that Alberuni altogether misunderstood the method 
here given (Nr/urna). 


ANNOTATIONS . 


379 


l\ S 2 i h 24. — These two dates do not agree to a day; 
The first Ferwerdinimtli Yazdajird coincides with 16th 
J hi 1 e 632; 40,081 days late r was Mond ay , 12th March 
742, whilst the 2 1st Daimalt of the year i io of Yaadajird 
corresponds to Sunday, 1 ith March 742. Pint as the date 
itself is erroneous, this is of no importance 

T\ 52, 1 . 27. — As the numbers winch form mul li plica- 
lions and divisions in this method are identical with those 
of the Panca Siddh&ntika (p« 5 1 ), we can reckon the con- 
stants by the directions there given. The epoch of the 
method of Al-harkan is the beginning of ShabEiu of the 
year 197, Tint this date corresponds to the beginning 
of Va.isukha 73.5 Sahakiikt. So we should have for this 
date the following calculat ion : -Subtracting 427 lTorn 73; 
years and 1 month, wo get. 308 years 1 month, or 3697 
months; 3697 multiplied by 7 and divided by 228 gives 
for the number of adhimasa months 1137^ : the it 3 
adhimasa months added to the 3697 solar months give 
3810 lunar months or 1 14,300 Innar days. This number 
multiplied by n is 1,257,300; we add 514, which gives 
us 1,257,814; this divided by 703 gives for the number 
of uuai'atra days 17 89-^7 A So we should have all the 
numbers wanted for our epoch if* in fact, Ibis epoch were 
the true epoch. 13 ut we have to add 864 months to the 
interval. Therefore these 864 months, which must always 
be added, must first bo subtracted from the epoch, so that 
this latter is thrown back by 72 years* Now 72 years or 
864 solar months multiplied by 7 and divided by 228 give 
the mint h or of 26 ■}. § % ad 1 1 i m ftsa m onth s. The se toge t h er 
with the 864 solar months are 890 lunar months or 26,700 
lunar days, which multiplied by 11 and divided by 703 
gi v 0417 f -< U tm ni tr a d ay a . So we 1 1 av e to e 11 btr act f r 01 x 1 
the numbers first found 26f-|f adhimasa months and 
4 t 7 j l, ;■[ fm arA tm days, Th e n 11 m ber of ad him fis a m on th s 
inherent to our true epoch will then be 1 1 3-f — 26IB = 
86v|ib or with sufficient accuracy 87 without a fraction, 
an d the ntim ber 0 f u n ardtra day s 1789 1 J — 417 ; % = 

1 37 iy 8 T Therefore no fraction is to bo added to the 
adhimasa months, whilst to the fnmnitra days there must 
bo added y .7 or nearly - 1 i Therefore we must add 28 
{not 38) before multiplying by AA’ The 1 14,300 lunar 


ALBERUNFS INDIA. 


3%c* 

days of the first, epoch diminished by the 26,700 lunar 
days of the 72 years, give 87,600 lunar days. Subtract- 
ing t b eref rom i 37 1 u nuril t r a d ays , we have 86.229 c i vi I 
days, which being divided by 7 give as reiiiLum'ler 3* 
the last day before this epoch is Thursday, and the number 
of days elapsed since the epoch of this method, if divide; 1 
by 7, will give a remainder in dicat ing the week-day, count- 
ing Friday as k The first, day of this epoch corresponds 
to the day 1 ,99 i ,8 1 9 of 1 1 ie -Julian period ( S^h renit ). 

I 5 . 33, h r. It must, be 23 , not 38 (see preceding note) 
{$ kluam). 

I*. 53, 1 . 6 . — We must add 1. if we wish to have the week- 
day of the date it self ? not that of the last day before it, 

l\ 53, 1. 8. More Friday is considered as the fi r*1 day 
of the week, not, as in the Indian books, Sunday, This 
ought to have been remarked (AWejww.-). 

}\ 53,1.9. — Albenmis notes to tins method of Al- 
ii ark a 11 are perhaps the weakest part of his work, fib 
very first remark shows a complete misunderstanding of 
the whole calculation. The method is correct, for the 
months of the seventy- two years with which it begins are 
solar. I as Albenmi would have them, they were lunar, 
and the rest of the months., as lie understands it, were lunar 
to '■ ?j tl 1 e n the calc ul ati 01 1 w 0 1 1 Id s i r n p I y b e nt >nsen se ; fo r 
£ n d i n g ad ! 1 i m asa m on ths is not h in g e 1 fee t It an finding the 
number which we must add to convert solar months into 
lunar onefe. kbit when the men tins are already lunar, how- 
can one add anything to them to make them once more 
lunar ? nt ). 

I" 1 - S3- 1 - J S- —The example bo works out is us erroneous 
as the remarks on the method itself, it must be clear to 
anybody who examines the method given on p. 52, that hy 
the words (L 29), ir Add thereto the months which have 
elapsed between the first of Sha ban of the year 197 and 
the first of the month in which you happen to be,” there 
can only be meant solar months, The author fixed the 
initial epoch in his calendar by saying 1 Shabuu E97A 
instead of fixing it in the Indian calendar by saying 


A NX OTA TIONS. 


38i 

‘ £ first V ui sakli a 73 5 T Th i s acci dental 01 rcu m stance t w h i eh 
is of no consequence, induced Albernni to think lit at he 
was te take the interval in Lunar months, as the Arabic 
calendar has only lunar months, and he did not notice 
that lunar months in this part of the calculation would be 
absolutely impossible. He takes, in fact, in the example, 
the interval in lunar months, for there are 2695 lunar 
months between the first Sha'btln 197 and first. Kabh L 422, 
and to these 2693 lunar months ho adds the 864 months 
which he knows to be solar. Then he changes all these 
mingled months, of which the greatest part are already 
lunar, to lunar ones, as if they all were solar, and at last 
be wonders that the result is nonsense, and tries to amend 
the method* The only fault in the matter is that he did 
not understand the method. 

if wc wish to exemplify the method of the canon Al- 
iittrforu in the case of our gauge-date, i.c. the llrst Caitm 
953 Sakata! a, we must, proceed as follows: — Subtracting 
from 953 years 735 years I month, we get as interval 217 
years 1 1 months or 26T3 solar months;, adding thereto 
864 solar months, we have 3479 solar months. This 
multiplied by 7 and divided by 228 gives for the number 
of ad hi m usa month s 10 61 ^ t \ ad d in g the 106 ad him a sa 
months to the 3479 solar mouths, we get 3583 lunar 
months, or 107,530 lunar days. We add 28, and multi- 
plying 107,378 by it, we have 1,183,358, which number 
d i v id ed by 70 3 give s th e n 1 1 n \ be r 1683-? j ! f or the ft t 1 ar at ra 
days, Subtracting the 1683 unaratra days from the 
107,550 lunar days, we have 1 03,867 civil days. We 
add j in order to get the week-day of tlie first Caitra 953, 
and dividing by 7, we get as remainder 7. And as here 
Friday is considered as 1, so 7 corresponds to Thursday, 
and the fir* I Oaitra 933 is found to be Thursday. Uy 
adding 105,867 to 1.991,819 we have for the first Uaitra 
of the year 953 the day 2.097,686 of the Julian period, as 
it ought to be (iSt'?wnfi“). 

1\ 53, !. 33. — The- emendation is as erroneous as the 
exam [fie was. The 25 958 days are counted from the 
epoch falling 40,08 r days after that, of Yajsdaprd to the 
first Fhaban 197. Hut 25,958 days are equal to S79 
Arabic months, or 73 years and 3 months* Furl her, he 


3*2 


ALBERUNFS INDIA , 


trikes again the interval in lunar months, so that now in 
the amended method he has nothing but lunar months, 
which he changes to lunar month? as if they were solar. 
So ho gets a number which is, of course, absolutely errone- 
ous, but he thinks it to be correct, for in the last instance 
he commits a new fault by mUrading i instead of adding 
1 1. A e id so by an accid e n \. al combi n a tioi i o f d i if er en t fan 1 1 s 
lie finds by chance a week-day which agrees with that of 
the day before our gauge-date {Svhntm.) 


1 J , 54 ? h 12, — As the multiplications and divisions of 
this method have already been explained in the note to 
pp. 36 and 37, we have here to account for the constant 
numbers only which are inherent to the epoch. The 
epoch is S 54 Sakai; ill a, which corresponds to the year 

I, 972,548,033 of the kalpa. Multiplying 1,972,948,033 
by 12, we find 23,675,376,396 solar months, which mul- 
tiplied by 1 ,593,300,000, the adhimilsa months of a kalpa, 
and divided by 5 [.840,000,000, the solar months of a kalpa, 
give the quotient 727.661 ,597 f as the number of 
adhimasu months. Adding the 727,661,597 adhimfisa 
months to the 23,675476.396 solar months, we have 
24,40 3 ,03 7,993 1 un ar m onth s or 7 3 2,09 1 : 1 3 9, 790 1 u n ar 
d ay s„ Th 1 s latte r n u m be r m n lti pi led bv 2 5 ,oS2 , 5 50,000, t h e 
n linrutra days of a kalpa, and divided by 1 ,602,999,000.000, 
the lunar days of a kal pa, gives for tl leiru mV, ter of lTnarfitraday s 

I I, 45 5,224,000;;^-^ f r Subtracting the 1 1455.224,000 
fin aru fra days from the 732,091,139,790 lunar days, we 
find as the number of civil days elapsed from the begin- 
ning of the kalpa to this epoch 720,635,97 5,790, a number 
which divided by 7 gives as remainder o. So, as the lust 
day preceding the kalpa was a Saturday (see p. 28, L 31), 
the last day before this epoch is also a Saturday; and 
any number of days elapsed since this epoch, if divided 
by 7, shows by its remainder the week-day counted from 

Sunday as I, The fraction of the ad him its a months in- 
* 

hareut to the epoch has been found to be Now 

SShWVir 


rVVrrh is equal to 


65 


”, or very nearly g ; so we add 29 


before dividing by 65. The fraction of the iman'Ura days 

is % i y\]L Now again 4 * J-S4 1 is equal to ' - ^ , or 

7°3 

nearly f ; so we add 686 before dividing by 703. 


ANNOTATIONS . 383 

The first day of this epoch coincides with the day 
2,061,54: of th e Jit 1 Ian p eriod (iSi ; A ) M £ } , 


1 \ 55, 1 . 5. — This method consists in finding first the 
difference of the mean longitude of sim and moon. The 
1 1 11 rn her s are Pn 1 isa’ s + Th ere are i n a eat ury u ga 4, 3 20 , 000 
revolution 5 of the sun, and 57,75 3. 3 36 revolutions of the 
muoa The difference, 53,433,336, is the number of lunar 
me )ii ths. 1 n e ve ry lunar 1 run nth til e rn. 0011 gain s one rev ol u - 
tron on 1 360 degrees over lire sun. Dividing 53433,336 by 
the solar years 4.320,000, we find as the number of lunar 
m onths be i 0 ngi rig to on e sol ar y ear 1 2 ! J 1 5 -g-. S 0 in e ve ry 
solar year the moon gains over the sun I2-J jj-gj-JS revolu- 
tions- 

Omitting the whole revolutions which have no interest, 
the moon gains over the sun revolutions, or, what 

is the same, 3 32 fVi/h degrees. Now N',,% degrees are equal 
to 46^%- or to 46 i' F minutes. So the moon gains over 
the sun in every solar year .132 degrees 46^ minutes. 
By nml Implying the number of years by 132 degrees 
46 >; mil lutes, we find the number of degrees which 
the moon lias gained in the given interval over the 
sun. Now if in the beginning of this epoch sun and 
moon had been together, this would be the difference 
of the mean longitude of sun and moon. But as- this 
was only in the beginning of the caturyuga, but not at 
the moment of our epoch, there is an initial differ- 
ence between the longitudes of suu and moon which 
must be added. Our epoch, or the year 821 Sat: aha t a, 
corresponds to the year 3,244,000 of tire caturyuga. 
Multiplying 3.244.000 by the number of lunar months 
53,433,336, and dividing by the number of solar years 
4,320,000, we find that in those 3,244,000 years the 
moon gained over the sun 40,124,477 revolutions* 
Dropping again the whole revolutions, we see that the 
moon was in advance of the sun at the moment of our 
epoch by TJ-g- revolutions, or 1 1 2 degrees. Therefore these 
] 12 degrees must be added, and all the numbers of this 
method find in this their explanation , The result for our 
gauge -date, 3 58 s 41 '46N is the number of degrees, in mutes, 
and seconds by which the moon is in advance of the sun 
at the moment of the beginning of the solar year 83 ] . that 


3*4 


A LB LRU NTS INDIA > 


is, in the moment when the sun enters Aries, As in the 
beginning of the limi- solar year sun and moon must have 
been in conjunction, the beginning of the limi-solar year 
lias preceded that of the tolar year by an interval which 
was just, sufficient for the moon to make 3 5 S 41/ 46" in 
advance of the sun. Now as the moon gains 360 degrees in 
a lunar month or 30 lunar day a, so she gains 1 2” in every 
lunar day. The re fore dividing 3 58" 4 1 '' 46" by T2 ? we get 
the number of lunar days and fractions by which the luni- 
boI a r y ei ir s bogi n n ing p re ceded tl j 1 1 1 of 1 1 1 a sol a r y ear, T 1 u 1 
fractions of the lunar days are changed to ghat is and cash a- 
kas. Thereby we get 2 9 days 5 3 ghat is 29 cashaka-s as the 
time by which the beginning of 1 lie Inni-solar year pre- 
ceded the sun's entering Aries, in agreement with the frac- 
tion of the ad hi mum month found on p, 31, 1 . 17, For 
j adlumasa months are also equal to 29 days 53 ghatia 
29 cashakas* Tin? number 27 days 23 gbatls 29 cash ak as 
which lie gives, p. 55, L 25 . ls obtained by dividing 328 
41' 4 &\ ah d n ot 3 5 S 41 * 46" , t >y 1 2 ( St h t -f t a t ), 

\\ SSi h T7* -The Arabic manuscript has 328 instead 

rf 358. 


i\ SS> h 33, — The number is J 32° 46 ^ t \, and not [32 4 6' 
34" (as the Arabic manuscript has). Therefore the povfio 
tmm is not il° 3' 52" 50 L A but 11 days 3 ghat is 33 
cash alias 24"; and the /rnlto mt-vsix not O 55' 1 9'' 24 '' 
id's but o days 53 ghat is i^casbakas 27 "b 

Tl 1 e r ease t 1 0 f tl sis cal c tt 1 at ion is the f ol 1 0 wing:- - T 1 1 
a year or 12 solar months the moon gains over the sun 
132 1 46:^3 ■ As die gains 12 degrees in every lunai 1 day, 
the twelfth part of these degrees will represent the sum 
of lunar days and their fractions which the solar year con- 
tains over 360, that is to say, the sum of adbirnilsa days 
and their fractions. One solar month containing o 
adhimfisa days 5; ghat is 19 eashakas 2714 the number of 
solar months within which one adliimasa month or 30 
lunar days sum up, will be found by dividing 30 days by 
o days 55 ghatte 19 cash ak as zf\ This gives 2 years 8 
months 16 days 3 ghati 35 cash aka, 

1 \ 36* 1 . 1. — There must be a great lacuna, for the first 


ANNOTATIONS . 


3«S 


lilted of this pages are absolutely without meaning. I am 
inclined to attribute this lacuna to the source whence the 
author drew this information* i.e. the Arabic translation 
of Karan as Lira. 

l\ 59, h 3 3 + — The calculation should bo made in the 
following manner : — The sum of days of the kaliyuga is 
multiplied by the star- cycles of a kalpa and divided by the 
ci v il d ays of a k al pa, viz., i , $ 7 7,9 I 64 50, 000. H n we ge t t;l 1 e 
revolutions and part of a re y elution which the planet has 
made during the time elapsed since the beginning of the 
kaliyuga, But in the beginning of the kaliyuga a! I planets 
have 31 ot been in conjunction; this was only the case in 
the beginning of the kalpa. Therefore to the fractions 
of revolutions which the planet made since the beginning 
of the kaliyuga, wo must add its place at this begin- 
ning itself, i.c* the fraction of a revolution which every 
planet had at the beginning of the kaliyuga, the whole 
revolutions being ot no interest. But Brahmagupta adds 
tl 1 es e n n m be rs be fo re di vkliti g b v the civil d ay s of the 
kalpa, and this h quite natural, both fractions having by 
tb i s proce ed i rig tl xe sa in e d i v i so r . Tl 1 ere fore w hat he cal I s 
the itt-Hx, ought to be the fraction of every planet at the 
beginning of the kaliyuga multiplied by the civil days of 
the kalpa; but he lias made a great mistake. Instead 
of multiplying the fractions by the civil days of a kalpa. 
yiz,, Tj 577*91 6,450,000* he has multiplied them by the 
years of a kalpa, viz., 4,320,000.000, Therefore alt num- 
bers given on p. 60 as the htmx are entirely erroneous. 
To find the fractions for each planet and the ham we have 
th e f 0 1 1 0 wi 11 g ca Ic u 1 afcion : F rom th e begi nn i n g of t he k a 1 pa 
to that of the kaliyuga there have elapsed 1,972,944:000 
y cl vrs ; so to g> ■ 1 . th e p 1 a ces r « f the pi a t ie ts a -1 f 1 1 e 1 >egi uni n g 
of the kaliyuga we ought to multiply the revolutions 
of each planet by 1,972.944,000. and to divide them by 
the years of a kalpa* 4,320*000,000. As these two num- 
bers have the common divisor 432,000, we multiply the 
revolutions of each planet by 4567 and divide them by 
10,000. This will give us the place of the planet at the 
beginning of the kaliyuga. We have thus for the single- 
planets : — 

Fo r Mu rs, 2 , 296 .828,322 revolutions m n ltd pi led 1 >y 4 5 67 

VOL. 31. ^ 2B 




A LB BRUNTS INDIA. 


and divided by [0,000 give 1,048,961,585 JbVA revolu- 
tions ; so the place of Mars at the beginning of the kali- 
yuga is t'V'oVo a revolution. 

For Mercury, 17,936,998,984 revolutions multiplied by 
4567 and divided by 10,000 give 8,191,827,43 5 revo- 
lutions ; eo the place of Mercury is iVifinr revolutions. 

For Jupiter, 364,226,455 revolutions multiplied by 4567 
and divided by 10,000 give 166,342,22 1 VVWiJ revolutions: 
so his place is y^YV revolutions. 

For Venus, 7,022,389,492 revolutions multiplied, by 
4567 and divided by 10.000 give 3,207,1 2 j sq 
her place is vhhiVrf revolutions. 

For 8atu rn , [46,567,2 98 re vo 1 u t i on a m id t i pi i ed by 4567 
and divided by 10*000 give 66,93 7,2 84 revolutions; 
and hie place is revolutions. 

for the sun’s apsis, 4 So revolutions multiplied by 4567 
and divided by 10,000 give 2 1 9 t V<tw revolutions ; and its 
place is t Vtfw revolutions. 

For the moon's apsis, 488,105,858 revolutions multiplied 
by 4567 and divided by 10,000 give 2 22,91 7,945^^ 
revolutions ; and its place is 7,66^1 revolutions. 

For the moon's node, 232,31 r,i68 revolutions multiplied 
by 4567 and divided by 10,000 give 106*096.5 ro T ^,f^b 
revolutions ; and its place is yVph'rr revolutions. 

Multiplying now the place of every planet by i> 577 i 
916,450,000. we get the following hasm for the single 
planets : — 


For Mil rs 1 , 5 73 , 8 1 3,86 7 . 23a 


*, Mtmjurv, 1 ,56^55.5,45 b56a 
?1 Jupiter, 1,57564967.^325- 


*1 Venus, 1 >572, 235 ,95078a 
- Saturn, 1,572,551,534,070. 



P. 67, L 14. ajl i6r> — According to \\ 15, the year was 
A,tl 154- Of, note to i. 169. 

S\ 7T. -With the orbits of the planets rf Sun p-S-iti- 
dhdntflt xii 90, note. 

Pp. 74 xi‘q . — As for the Arabic terminology of these 
pages, It* deserves to be noticed that — >■ 


A NNOTA T IONS'. 


&7 


(r.) J&&\ means thr true dutance — Sanskrit 

mif)hlakarmt. 

(2.) That iJd' means the true thi&tanee of the 

shadows end ; and 

■M 

(3.) Sinus ttjtus f JxjI — Sanskrit frijim or trij}/d 9 

means fht M-ftwt of thr*r ~o tflttrttf sp/ux or 90 rfrffret% ir. the 
rad in s H 

P. 74, 11, 1 / , iS; — Instead of TG = ^ the Arabic manu- 
script lias KC — winch has been corrected by Dr. 
Sebram. 

P, 7;, h 34. — The lacuna must be something like Pie 
following : — Lk For KC must be divided by the divisor kept 
in memory ” (81 kraut). 

P. ?8 ? L 27. — This and the two following passages are 
not clear. Alberuni does not seem to have understood 
the subject, for the shadow is neither the greatest, nor the 
mean, but the true shadow ; and the shadow from which 
one is to subtract, i.e. 1 58 1 , is nothing else than the earth's 
diameter* which also is neither the mean nor the greatest, 
but always the same {Si'hraw.}- 

1\ yg.--AlMiiOnrhmi is mentioned here and ii. 114 (on 
the various colours of eclipses). According to Fihrid^ 
p* T Vp t he composed an epitome of the Sind hind {lSrohftt.tf- 
HiddhAnia). lie is famous as the author of a work on 
algebra, edited by Rosen, London, 1837. CJ\ also L. 
Iiodet* JJ A.ifje.h-n' d f A! Ichw&ri^u rt }f$ Method™ Imtinmt rt 
Crrrqtre (/ £ Journal Asiatiqne,” I Of (1878), pp* 5 wj*), 

P* 82. Tiro sun*, l ico utoons t d\-. — This theory, as well 
as the expression fish (a name for the polar star?), seem 
to be of Jain a origin. Cj\ f blebrooko, " Essays,” ii* 20 1, 

Id 84, — t*j\ with this table of the KoLdodyas a paper of 
1 hi I ;ja n t, ri The tvn m ber of th 0 St ars eon s ti t u ting t he sc ve r al 
Nakshfttras according to Brahmagupta, &ad’ the “Indian 
Antiquary,” 1885, p* 43 ; also Colebrooke, if Essay bT ii* 
284, and Nfinfn~SirfdMnto t p. 321, 


3 00 


ALBERUNPS INDIA . 


IV . Sg s 1 * 3 2 . — In t ] i e Arabic t e set, p. r r 1 , i 5 , read \ d I 

Instead of Tin- number of years is i doo, not 28 Qo. 

T p . 90. JSffewiiflt/iW, This terra (also is ex- 

plained in $th\ifa~$khlhthitf*-, note to ix, 

The work 0 hurrah akljflL only once mentioned, is pc- c- 
haps identical with the KiMhrdfjJf-ut'rff, which Albernni 
quotes in his (chronology “ (my translation, p* 15 rf 
-pasm-m ), Its author was A bfi-M 1 1 ham m ad A lniVib .A I a m ul 1 . 
who has used the work of Yakub Ibn Tank. Cj\ note to 
i. 169. 

P, 90, I 21. -"Emendation of the Z~A tlnkhihhjft'kfi (also 
on p, 9 r ), i .■'■ . IT ( 1 arak 1 1 an d akh Sdy a ka * 

On Vijavanandm ( 1 . 26), the author of lOm.tnalilabt^ vf, 
note to i. p. 156. 

R 10 IV The enumeration of mountains, here taken 
from the ffltt txga^Pn rdtt a 9 may be cite eked by the help of 
Visit tj a - P/> i i . r 4 l , n ote 2, ami i i . 1 9 1 vy , Th e 1 u> t 
name is written htthtis/A.r in the Arabic. which I cannot 
identify with an Indian name. Perhaps it is a blunder 
for -a, 1 ' J, 1 which might represent v/m/bYWAr, FA A 

Vishnu- jfa Mm, II. iv T + p. 197. 

P. 1 01. — On the, A nmA ege nd ? A". VUh y n- I'tmhja, Ilf. 
via. p. Si, note. 

R 102. — The story of Soma* the husband of the daughters 
of Praj&pati (the lunar stations), occurs in its elements 
already in the Yectlc period* if LL Zimmer, AUhuh'Mhf^ 
Lelxti, pp. 355, 375- 

R 104. On the I Tint] 11 theory of ebb and flow, vf. 

ii. 203, 204. The two names , of w hich I 
have not found the Indian equivalents, are written hi hum 
and viikar in the Arabic* 

R J 05. Th Yixh.irti-Titrfhttt myn . — The author seems 
to refer to V'ishyw-l^mhjn, II* iv. p. 204: “The rise and 
fall of the waters of the different seas is five hundred and 
ten (not J 500) inches 7:1 for finger-breadth a). 


ANNOTATIONS * 3S9 

I A 106,— The author's theory of the origin of the Diba- 
j At has already been mentioned, vol. L 233. 

J k no,— As to the strictures of the author on the sin- 
cerity of Brahmagupta, tf. note to p> 25 {here ii- p, 263). 
I 1 he passages which excited the indignation of Albennu. 
do not express the view of Brab magapta, but were simply 
taken by him from older books — in fact, written ptlrm- 
sd. 4 } r d n t fM i x mt. Vj '. Kero, tra n si ati on of Ui 'ik a t -fit * rah ltd , 
note to chap, iii. v. 4 (p. 445). 

P, 1 14„ h \ 2 . Kinds of w'Kpwxs Head instead of this, 
colours of the edipse$* On A tkhwarizmi, r/\ note to ii, 79. 

What the author here mentions as a view of the Hindus* 
agrees literally with S{lrtf(^Siddkdnf-a, vl 23. 

P. 1 [ 6 , — On the Khan da Wt&dija ka, the Sanskrit original 
of the Arabic NiudkiwK rf note to i, 153, 134. 

I.\ ilS. — On the Bnlityjtdafonit, of Yrmlh ami Lira, f. 
note to i, 219. 

It 1 19. — Rules for finding the dominants or regents of 
the day* month, and year are given in the Silrf/a-.Sdt - 
dhduht, L 51. 52; xii, 78, 79. 


ik J 20. — On the -*rr uiJuira (?) of MaM.de va, not to be 
confounded with the book of the same title by [Tipala* 
ef. note to i. 157. 

Ik 120. Table of th: serpents, — The names of this table 
must be compared with the names in VtsJhitt-f^fvdvm, h + 
74, 285. The words Snka and Oftbmkada seem to be mis- 
takes of the. Arabic copyist for Vd.mll and Oah'^ht* 

Ik 1 2r, — The names of the dominants of the planets are 
not known to me from a Sanskrit source. Therefore the 
pronunciation of some of them remains uncertain. 

Pp + I2i, 122, — The names of the dominants o£ the 
Nakshatras am given by A, Weber, Ueher dm Vedakalwi- 
dev Ntnmm ftjoli^luvti^ p. 94, Of. also fit\ npt -Wddhehda, 


A LEER UNI'S INDIA* 


390 

viii* 9, pp. 327 and Vixknn-Pnrdnft , XL viii., notes on 
PP 2/6, 277, + 

Instead of J liim f the deity presiding over Amiradha. it 
would perhaps be better to write Mmint, ami in the 
Arabic (Vishnn- T'itnhjst, ii. p* 277). 

The latter part of this list in the Arabic text is not free 
from confusion. 

The regent of IT ttarubh ad rapad a is placed side by side 
with Pftiwabhidr&padS, whilst the latter station is left 
without its regent, which is aft ekaptif- { 8 &r?fa-Nu f dh thi ta, 
p« 343}- A part of this word seems to be extant in the 

scpiare for (mini, which bas^Li 1 Vrhaps this is to be 

read ahia ajmkapdd^ 1 JL \ in which case the Arabic 

copyist has made two blunders, dropping part of the word 
tijaiL'&^dd and placing it in the wrong square. 

l.\ 123. — On the sixty-years cycle r /1 Sih \ya- ffit It I hint t t , 
I. 55? tm d xiy , 1 7 ; VamI latuihi ra : B> m ihut- St ukh it d, visL 
20-53. 

P. 125 - — her tl 1 o n am e s Sai n vat sa ra , Pari v at sam, S c . . rf\ 
Brifttit-Samhittl, v iii. 245 8 uvi/ff.- 8 Mdkdn/ft, xiv. 17, note; 
Weber, Ucbcr dm VaMcalenda 1 ijmcimd p. 

34 " 3 6 - 

Pp. 127, 12 S* — The dominants of the single hidm are 
given in Brikal-Iimnhit&i chap* viii. 23, 

The names of the single years exhibit some differences 
from the Sanskrit text viii. 27-52)* 

No, Sj instead of hhara, has risen from a wrong 

division of the words of the text — - 

irtmnJih rddalmsdh wnt, 
i .e . xri m tikh a -hft 1 1 ra hran* 

No. 9, instead of =ynvfnt. s is perhaps a mis- 
take of the copyist of the Arabic text. 

No + 15. cidi't fin KltiTs edition is not a 

/ 

mistake, but a different reading. The word in brackets 
( Vi ' ish abhtt) is to be cancelled. 

r 

No. 1 8, ■ mfn, cannot he combined with ■pdi'fbim. 

It corresponds to natmk-. Of. Kern's various readings to 
chap. viii r 35. 


ANNOTATIONS, 


39i 


No. 30, * The name of the thirtieth year is dvr** 

■ittakha. Perhaps the reading yV has risen from a 

wrong division of these words (viii. 38) — 

m-a nmath 0 9 ay/ r / m m / aim- d 1 t r rn * ■: Ut ak 7 
so as to represent the elements w‘U 

No. 34, *-rir (&xnv7), seems to be a mistake for iarmrl 
or sarmrin. 

No. 40, itard-mtiii is the reading of some manuscripts 
for pit-nthhAra, Of. Kern, various readings to vui H 41 , 

No. 48, This year is called by Kern, but the 

reading of Alberuni, vikrmiia, occurs also in Sanskrit 
manuscripts. Of various readings to viii. 45. 

No. 36, The Aj oJ of the text seems to be- a blunder of 
the copyist fo r dmtrfnWd (viii. 30). 

No. 57. ariiffdm or amg&rii the reading of certain manu- 
scripts instead of udgdri (viii. 50). 

No. 58 and 60* Tire words (instead of /Uf,) and 

0 = ralit'il'sha and fatltaya, seem to be examples of a 

phonetic change between sh and r. 

The same list of names is given in Suri/a-Sfddkthia^ i. 
55, note. 

I\ 1 30. — With this chapter on the fou r parts of the life 
of a E rah man rj\ Yf^}}U-Piirfty<u book III, chap. ix. 

P, 131, — The complete verse of Eashshar is this — 

The earth 3s dark, but the fire is bright, 

And the fire is worshipped, since there is fire.” 

Tli is is the saying of a mail whose parents had come as 
prisoners of war from Tnkbaristan on the Upper Ox us, 
but he was born in Basra, and lived in Bagdad under the 
Kind if AtmahclL As be stood under the accusation of 
being a heretic (Zoroasirinn or Munich scan)., or, according 
to another version, because lie had composed satirical 
verses on the Khalil, he was, notwithstanding his great 
age, sentenced to be beaten, and died in eon sequence, AJL 

1 fi 7 = a J) . 7 S4 . Of I bn K h ullik in , Yt/a , N 0 . 1 1 2 . 

P. 1 34, L 1 . — The south, as the direction foreboding evil, 
has already once been mentioned in connection with the 
1 si an d s L an k 4 an d Vad a v a m nklia, rf h i, 307, 3 08. 


ALHERUSl'S INDIA , 


39 3 

Pp. 134, 1 55 - — With this description of Aryfivarta a /'. 
Mann, ii 17 -seq+ \ Yasishtha, i + 12 ; and Baudh&yana* L 
1 3 9-12 (" Sacred Laws of the Ary as/’ translated by G. 
Bidder, Oxford, 1879-82)* 

P. 133, — On the vegetables which musk not. be eaten, 
rfi Mann, v. 3, and Vasishtha, xiv. 33, N~M 1 . seerus to be 

= Sanskrit ndliku , 

P. 136. — The contents of this chapter are nearly related 
to Vv<lr\}tt-l\mh}rt 7 book 111. chap, yhi. 

I\ 137. — Tire story of King Ram a, the Brahmin, and the 
f Wtjdaht, taken from the RdmAymtf^ vide in Wilkins’ 
li Hindu Mythology ,T (Calcutta, 1882),]% 319. 

I> 137, 1 3S* — The two quotations of Aibenmi from 
the Eitityai‘t.idyVd can hardly be compared with rmv pas- 
sage in the book in its present form* (f. note to i. 29. 

l\ 139. — On the fixeiUiirdka or horse-sacrifice, rf. Cole- 
brookcj ;l Essays,” a* 55, 56. 

Pp* 140, 141.- -This legend, as given on the authority of 
the VifdutH-Dktmw-t is not known to me from a Sanskrit 
source. 

Ik 142. — As the original of this quotation from the 
Fit rdiifi# h not known to me, the pronunciation of some of 
the proper nouns remains uncertain. 

P. 143. — The story of Hagara, Bhagirathu. and the 
Ganges, is related by H. If* WlIeou, ( * Works/ 1 voL ii. p, 
1 68. Of also Wilkins 1 is: Hindu .Mythology; 7 p* 383. The 
source of tins legend is the first book of IltUvfitftun(. 

P* 145. I do not know the original of this quotation 
from V a rah a m iliira’s St *-ih it itd , 


Pp, e 45 , 146. — The words here attributed to .Sauna ka 
are probably taken from the Vishnn-Bhurvui. (Jj. note 
to 1. 34. 


A NNOTA TIQNS. 




l\ 147.- The story of the head of Brahman is part of 
the legend of Siva's fight with the A sura Jalandham Of. 
Kennedy's ;f Researches, 1 ’ p, 456. 

I 1 . 149. — ' This and the following chapters treat of subjects 
which are discussed more or loss in every Indian law-bools, 
as in those of Mann, Apastamba, Gautama, and others. 
AlbenmL however, does not. seem to have drawn directly 
from any of these books,, but rather from his own experi- 
ence, from what his Pandits had told him, and what he 
himself had observed during his stay in India* 

l 1 , 153, — All.ia]jaj was governor of Babylonia during 
twenty years under the Omayyado Kalif 'Abdulmalik 
(684-704) and his son Alwalid (704-714). 

P. 153. Thai a Urah/iniv and a Can$tt& are equal to 
hint. — -Of. the saying of Vyasa, the son of Paruiara, lie re 
vol. i. p. 44. 

P- — On the forbidden degrees of marriage, '/■ 
Alaniij iii. 5. 

P. 256 . — ( )i i fft ti'hfhf. h ana, .4 ft t a t iif out 1 1 i-fft nta m , * h ef t t.h e 
l)h a rm a .414 v v t of G a u tama p vi ii * 14; al so tJ le Of ras 

of A£valayaua, i* 13, 14* 

1 / 157. Th.ti.% wit r a Kith ft l wan tu/tojtirrfd, dV. — The sen- 
tence added in brackets to indicate the meaning of the 
authors words, as I understand them, ought to rim thus: 
“ (which proves that lie abhorred the eating of cows 1 meat 
and sodomy, but that he did not consider harlotry as 
anything baneful or unlawful)/' 

The detail in the history of Kabul here alluded to is 
not known from other sources, ?-<g. BalhdknvL During the 
Oinayya Kaliphate of Damascus, both Kabul and Sijis- 
tan bravely fought against the Muslims. During certain 
years they were subdued and had to pay tribute, but 
Kabul always remained under the sway of its Hindu 
(Brahm i n ) kit ige of the Pa] a dynasty. It w as incorporated 
into the Kalif’s empire under the Abbasidc MaTuiln ; it 
had to receive a Muslim governor, but retained at his side 


394 


A LB BRUNTS INDIA . 


the Hindu SbAhu The same double rule existed in 
KhwArizm. 

About a. D p 950-975 the city of Kabul was already 
Ain slim, whilst the suburb was inhabited by the Hindus 
f ai id by Je w r) * K Abu 1 was til e coron ati m 1- ci ty for t h e J J A I a 
dynasty, as Iv'inigsberg in Prussia for the HoheuEolkrns. 
Even when they ceased to reside in Kabul, they had to be 
crowned there* 

By the lapahb&l* mentioned by Alberuni, I under- 
stand the Hindu governor who ruled over the city for the 
PA l a king. Our author applies a title of the Baeauian 
empire to the official of a Hindu empire* 

In what year the negotiation referred to by Alberuni 
took place is not known* Perhaps under Ala’ mini, when 
the city was definitely ceded to the Muslim conquerors. 

It seems to have been the public opinion among Mus- 
lims that Hindus considered fornication as lawful, as I bn 
Kh ur d Adh bil 1 expre see s it ( Elli ofc, ‘ L His tory of I ndia # h 
1 3). whilst, according to Alberuni, they considered it in- 
deed as unlawful, but were lax in punishing it. 

P- 157. — The Buyide prince 1 A find -aid an I a, who held 
Persia under his sway, died a.h. 372 = A-D. 982, Not long 
before Alberuni wrote, the last of their dominions had been 
annexed to the empire of Mahmud of Gkazna. 

P. 158. — ’Iyas Ibn MnAwiya w T as judge in Basra under 
the Otnayya K hat if Omar I bn 'Abdalrisiz;, and died there, 
A, II. 122 — A*D« 74 O. 

P. 159.' — With the author’s description of the ordeals, 
<■/'. Munu, viii. [ 14 and a translation of the chapter on 
ordeals from tho Vvj&mh 4 va Mmjukka by (k Bi'diler, in 
|C Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal,” 1867, vol. 
xxxv. pp # r 4 &-(f \ ; Stensder, Die Imiimkrn ffotUwyf-ki'iL\ in 
Zt . ifst it ! ■ ifl do' Dr ntst it r ) 1 Morf/m I a n t Hwhai f L^dba. it *tfi , i x . 
p* 66 r* The last-mentioned kind of ordeal (p, 160) is also 
described in Elliot’s <c History of JndiaT i 329 (the Sindian 
ordeal of lire). 

P. 164* Avcordiny to a passage* in the honk Mtnm. — Vj\ 

Mami, ix. 1 iS, 


ANNOTATIONS. 


395 


JA 1 66*- — For the first quotation from Phwtfp, S i r>, cf, 
note ton p, 65. The second quotation can hardly be iden- 
tified with any passage in Phtwlo. Perhaps it is derived 
from a commentary on the following words. Sic: — 

iiAAii OLuA^.^ir?p' y<, oLp.u.i, hwb rov «r(jj/xaroetSous, 5 avry y 
lyuXia re aal orvvovtrta rod m^iaros Sid tu tier. ^vvarat. Kal fit A 
~t}v “oAAfji i' pektryv eksT roLtpre ^dp^iVT&v. 

I J . 16/ v — The quotation from Phado is found r 15c 
1 1 6 a : — 

tht.TTTi'y.ta* fif r/t Tu f t.t. Tpairm' • ojrtM$ dy, Htji 1;, jio uA^crtfe, sdvwtp 
ye kaftyri px toit- j.iy £tnftvyta hi ds^ i>;,t.A. 

iyyvf}<ra<r$£ ofiy p* -ph$ Kpirwa, t foh T V V tvavruxv £yy\yv i) 
V 1 r TTpu^ 5 tK«tTT<t 5 vJ’/V IKATO, OITO S (div y ilp 7 f flip' Tapap.CVttV . 

rpcU fit y fiy\' p.y irapaptrt.LV £yyvy<ra(T$e t lira fid v diroOu i-trj , ft AAA 
0 1 ^Ypr&rSai dir^wra f Tva Kpt.rtiiv paov <£tpy t keu p-y ap&v p<*v 
rb inZpa v) KfUt^«vov vj KftTOjflvrT^wrov dym-uKT-fi VTrtp ifwiv m 

Suva TTiiGT^u yrus jftrirU Aey-jj el/ Tvf 7 £/ t/jj, LUV t) “pOTlt’cT-ftl StiJK^flTSJ 
v’i tKljtlf >u y KaropVTTt l~ K.T.k. 

rt A AA 6 appt.iv Tt xpy Kal tfxtvai to vtwv trtapn OdirTtiv ttai 
O&TTTtlV QVT(t>$ } Onto £ dl 1 ' O’Ol <j)lkoV tj KtJ.l p.O. A «TT« yyjj VQfttJiOV 
clvai + 

I \ i 68 . f /* v h, it m i &f •. — I d 0 n ot k n ow th Li 0 reek or i g [ n al 
of this quotation, Cf. note to i. p, 35, 

\\ 169-- -The words of Yasndeva are a quotation from 
Jilt t ttjtf vad - ( JU&i v iii P 24. 

P. 171. Johannes GmmmaMcm, — Of. note to i + 36, 

P. 1 7 1, — The two quotations from Phado are found in 
62c : — 

,ut(ik TDfVui - 1 iravry *jrw AAoyov py wportpov ai--b y flirvKTii'vvvui 
fit m ■ , rrplv dvdjKyv rtva &eb§ iirtirep, Miirtp tad ryv vvv 7 pt.lv 
waptiimv. 

And 62B : — 

wj er rm tppQVpJt hrptv ol avBpwroi tta'i ov fitL fir) tavr^y Ik 


ALBERUNFS INDIA. 


396 

T(.i vTips kveiv ov&' dirQ&tZp*XrJ-K<t,Pj k.t.X. tb tkaus emu 
roi's e 7T £ ^x-c A q vjj. k 1 ■■ o v 9 mu tqi's df^ptuirous eV Trui* KT^/Jtaiw 

TOtS #*TO£S CtW&lp 

P. 174. — -for the Vithy n- Vnnhm, vuJe note to f. $4, 
TJje reading Dim' is not certain, as the Arabic text has 
only ijfjJ* 

The Dames iMfjUtf-, -ZteAynttfot, and Yttt/dti have been 
verified by means of the index to Vitfty'f-Pitrdtw-. 

P- 175, last. line. — On the festival of the birth of VS.su- 
d ova-K ri s h n a ( Ay h Mp fl/tf fr * w i ), rj\ Weber, 1 4 3 n d i an 

Antiquary,” 1874, p. 21 ; 1877, p. 161 ; Zcitsdhrift (lev 
Deatwheu Sloryc « lam Imh *• a . vi, p, t.)2 + 

it 176,1. ir.* — 1 The Arabic manuscript has af.ttj. 

For the word attdpyd, ef. 1 L XL Wilson, u Essays and 
Lectures/ 3 ii. 232. 

P. 176, 1 . t 9. Dwadid, The latter half of this word is 
apparently a derivation from the root #iwp = to sleep. In 
Prak rit xtrsp = s[ ri tjti (Sanskrit snqnw), Vide VarttraA, i, 3. 

P, 1 77, I. m— Beotflmd, also called dmUk&u- and 
ditthwan. (■/. XL IT. Wilson, “Glossary of Technical 
Terms/* pp. 133, 134, 143, and ^Memoirs on the History, 
Folklore, and Distribution of the Races of the North- 
Western Provinces of India,” by EL Elliot, edited by J. 
Be&mes, i. 245. 

\ \ 177. — Th e h er e-m e 1 1 1 i on ed hhidh /t uf-j w rim- n i f, t % see ms 
to be identical with the bMsk'm a- pet ha ( ktt m. mentioned by 
Wilson, £ * Essays and Lectures,” ii. 203. 

P. 177. — The name Gtrur-f.~t\ y occurs also ii. 179, 
and is aunarentlv a vernacular form for qauri-trttimL ( 7 '. 
W ilson t L L p. 1S.5. 

I*. 17S. — With this calendar of festivals are to be com- 
pared the treatise of H. LL Wilson, “ The Religious 
Festivals of the Hindus," in his :£ llssays and Lectures” ii, 
p. r 5 1 and Garni 11 de Tassy, .Xotire .w hsfitc* pop?/- 


A NNOTA TIQNS , 


397 


I trim t?w Him! onx, Paris, 1834. This chapter, as welt as 
the p receding one, would perhaps receive much light from 
the J$fpt ir r it l h dhha m n a m t ch ap + xx 1 . Of. W eb er, £ 1 - ! on rnal 
of the German Oriental Society,” vol. xxii. p. ?]g T and 
xxiv, p, 399. 

This chapter bus been translated into Persian by Abu* 
Said Garden! (manuscript, of the Bodleian Library in 
Oxford, Ouse ley 240). Of. note to ii. 6, 

\\ r 78. Af/rfik . — The Arabic has only which 

might be something like 

M t ten . - Th i 6 pr 0 11 u n elation is given by t he mann script * 
The name, not to be confounded with the Arabic name 
Mttff-tl (Matt bums), is perhaps identical with the- name of 
a prince of Siwistan mentioned by Elliot, i- I lisLory of 
India,” i. 145-153. 

JlinfMi-mUriir — Of. Bd^jdtrd or Soli of Wilson, 
P- ^23- 

Bftlwjuk—Vide Wilson, /. e., and msanh e, here 11. 179. 

1\ 179. (kti/rO-r. — Of nbte to ii. 177, 

l\ 1 So. Od ikifJ '(?}, &c,— 111 the Arabic text tlie word U 
must be added before , *k>. 

In the following line there is a lacuna, which in my 
translation 1 have filled, up by the help of the Persian 
translation of Gardezi which runs thus: — 

Jmj j jJ * Cy \*j ^4 I* (sic) *}y b 
Ij* Tn another place Gar cl ezi writes b ■ 

P. 1 B 1 , — O11 JifiM&trmmi, (j 1 note to i. 164* 

P* 182, Kiri (?). — This is perhaps only a misspelling of 
the Arabic copyist for KrrnH {Garni i R'ihtU-tihfwh')* 

Of. note to i. 317, and Elliot, 4< History of India,” ii. 1 12, 
1 50 1 iv. 138; Ihviliftki, ed. Morley, p, 274. It is the 
place where King Mas" ild was murdered. 

It 1 82* Bildli = Mp&ritli (row of lamps ). — Of Wil- 
son, “Glossary of Technical Terms/' p* 1 1 ,1 . Garden] has 

J'*u 3 , r IMlC 


39 & 


ALBBRUSPS INDIA, 


P. t S3, ,s%i- f. ; iff rn = sd Msk to m ? . - Wi 1 son ‘ f 1 ssays/ 1 

ii. 308, 

P. 1 83. f fdvr&ha seems to be = mfordoM mdflnt., 
mdnMi/ittfju = m&rt $d$h l a ka, p&rdvktktf =p Hr&tih 0 * ka , a ti d 
w.c ( A df i’y y/ = yyy f ff/h dak (t* tui. if. W il so 11 . ' £ Essay s/' ii. 183, 
184 1 8 t. 

P. 1 83, — The festival ofo seems to be identical with 
h of k h ol ikti or il (ff-jiV i rL Cj . VV 1 Iso n, p. 3 47 ,210. I n s tead 
of r Ikijhf. the Persian translation of Gardozl has h&H, 

1\ 184, Nii'ff tdtri. Cf. Wilson, p. 2 to, 

P. 184. PmfitMtmu is perhaps “ f^pdshtamL Of. 
inlpdshfakd. 

F. 186. — On the 15th Maglia, as the beginning of 
kaliyuga, <f Wilson . " Essays and Lecture a ** ii. p. 20 R. 
Alberurii seems to have taken his in form at ion regarding 
the yttff&flyd oi 1 beginning of a from lNNn i nf-/^h f 1 .utt ) 
III. chap. xiv. p. 1 68. 

P« 1 87^ 9. 5. — The number of lnnar days. 1*603,000,010 
(sir MS,}, must, according to Dr. Scbram, be altered to 
1,603.000,080, 

W 1 88, Vis/utrtf. -On the use of tMs term in astronomy, 
rj\ N&rifti-Ni(ikhdot<t, iiL 6, note. 


P. l88, — On Ntturntja (?) ? if note to i. 336, 

F. 189, h 17, after the table. — The solar year is 36; days 
15 1 30 11 2 2 iji 3G iv . not 365 days 3 o' 22" 30'- o' v . Accord- 
ingly the. last line must run thus: 1 day 15' 30" 22' ' 

30 iv are equal to jJ-Sgi)” (Srkvtm). 

P« 190, 1. 7, — The hltrhjfih&vft is not. 572, as the manu- 
script has, but 576, and the fraction (#SW tramf 

It I90 , — AnJiafia (V). The name is written iiT j 

A more literal rendering is this : tS And that which 


ANNOTATIONS. 


399 


A, tlie son of S* has dictated of the same (subject), is based 
on the theory of IhilisaT This author seems to have been 
contemporaneous with Alberuni, as also Samaya (ii. iSS). 

lb IQO. Vardhaviikira* — C f. note to i. 54* 

The term $hada$UwmIcha is explained in Mr?/a~tSid- 
tlhdfda, xiv, 6 , note, 

3 b 191. — On the Farvan, F\ chap- lx, 

lb T 92. Ndtitldiu . — The author quotes here the Briltai- 
Sffvihitdj chap, xxxih 24 26. 

lb 192* — On the book cf, note to i. 157 and 

ii. 1 20- Is the word = $avmdham ? 

Tb 194. — With the theory of the ketmyfts, cf. Stitya^ 
SattlJuhrOt, ii. 67-69. 

lb 195, — For an explanation of the term hhvMi } rj\ 
Sil rija-Syl d hdnta. i, 2 J, note, 

lb 197. — The names of the tomtmu kammw are found 
in Nilryn - Hit hi k/in la , ii. 69, note. 

The other names are Indian numerals of a vernacular 
s t am p h r J 'h c ■ c orre sp ondi n g Sin d h i form s are h * rkhs? {■),(> id* 
t ri.Oj rof h o 7 f tt t a jo, rh ah t\ ml i\ 1 * I hd .nd 6 , da It t\ ?/r 7 1 •// d , h ■ / /'// 0 , 
f/.yhd, t'Ctdhd, Of\ Tmmpp, "Siudhi Grammar/'pp. 1 58, 174. 
The form ptnmlM (=the 15th) has, as far as 1 can see, no 
analogy in the vernacular dialects. 

P. 199 , — Nmhhnhdi means the sun’s entrance into a sign 
of the zodiac. (If. Sdnja- Suit Ihihita, xiv. 1 o, note* 

lb 200. AlklvtlL TIi e way in which this scholar has 
transformed the Hindu theory of the karomtx is instruc- 
tive, as showing how Indian subjects were handled by the 
Arabs before Alberuni, even by the most learned and 
enlightened among them. The first knowledge of these 
t.l » in gs w a s pro ba b 1 y 00 m m n n i cated to th e A r ab s by tl 1 e 
translation of the ^ r 7 A<fi / ct ( jSV? strf'A.? ) ai^ cl Khay- 

p akk d t h/a ka {. A t 'ban d) of Brahn j ag 1 > pta. 0 t 1 A.l k i u di , </. 


4 oo 


A L UR R u NTS IN n T A . 


Gr. Fliigel, Alkhuli, tjcnannl dnr PMloftojpk dor A mba\ 
Le ipz i g T i S 5 7 ( in vol . i ■ f >1" t* l l e A hh<i ndl t 1 > if /* ■ t 1 fit . ? - t in Knw k 
dt'.ft tlf^rf/wdandes)* 

I\ 2d . — The it amea of the as taken from the 

Srudhitca (of M alt fide va? — of. note to ii* 120), are not 
known to me from a Sanskrit source* However, mdm-d- 
v ittl'ha, < fit ora, and kdiarMni seem to be certain, The 

words and J '■}•=- might be plana Mid jraia, but % 

The other series of names of the nkhti% according to 
Alkindi, which by a mistake have been omitted m the 
Arabic text, may be transliterated in this way 

(1.) Shfllpi (SmpadUf 

( 2 ♦) Jamadud (ydmpot l a dh i ■ ). 

(3*) Ghora. 

(4*) Naetarinish. 

(S.) Da ru n i (d kit t ■ in i ?) . 

(6.) Kay fill, 

( 7.) Bab ay am an 1. 

(8 . j Jji kata (vyakt a f ) . 

\\ 204. On the yogas * — The contents of this chapter are 
near akin to those of chap, xi of the AVJ . t ya -Sul f l M m ( a. 
Compare also in the same book \ i, 65, 66 * The technical 
term -pdf a, which literally means fall (for its astrological 
meaning, *f. /. xi, 5, note), has in Arabic been rendered 
by the word fr.jW.iuf/ (page 11, 24), here in 20 7, 

208,209. In the Arabic text on p* ^ "H T 7, read i_ v instead 

of tL jk. > , and to the word 1. r6.it must be added that 

tlie manuscript has 

V. 205.— On the KarmmUittht of Vijayanandin, of note 
to L 156* 

Ik 20 J * — r ETie hh.itklywntava has been explained, u. 105. 

V. 208.- -Hy&rahc ifa (?) seems to have been a Hindu 
from Kashmir who had become a Muslim, and wanted, by 
means of an AraJdr book, to be informed on certain chap- 
ters of Hindu astrology. The pronunciation Syamh&ht is 
out certain* The Arabic manuscript lias Atj&trjird. 


ANN OTA TIQNS. 


401 


P* 20 $ > — On the Brahmin BhatHlo^ rf. note to L [57, 
The names of the yogas which he mentions are not known 
to me from other sources* The names iionddnta, htla- 
d(0}.(h(. j, and midkrita are certain, and h.irh is probably 
mrsha. 

20 g . — On Sri pal a, rf. note to i. 164. 

W 210 * — -With the names of this table ej\ fitirya-Sid- 
dkdnta t ii. 65 j note (also p. 432), The of the Arabic 
seems to be a mistake for ^X<-( vishJcambha ; No. 1 5, jJdo 7 
a mistake for ganda. 

Instead o£ dv/u&hnttmt (name of the third yoga), the 
Arabic has fifij {rrfjithwim f ) ; instead of cyatipdta it has 
cu\Xk{ {gatip&ti !■). 

V. 21 T. — The contents of this astrological chapter are 
principally taken from the laghjjjritahf-m. {>_f. the smaller 
book of nativity) by Yarubamihira, of which the chapters 

1. ii, have been translated by A. Weber (Indmlw Stvdim, 

2, 277 sreff whilst the remainder has been translated by 
H. Jacobi (Ik Astroloyia; Ivdkm kora apprUotw- origin! 
ton. Acwtnnt lM*jkiijak*hi wpiitt i'mlihi iii.-xii., Bunn, 
1872). Albernni does not always adhere to the order of 
the paragraphs which we have in the Sanskrit text, and 
for certain parts ho seems to- have drawn from some com- 
mentary* 

The exact meaning of the term Promts of fft-e stars (the 
same page, 1L 23. 24), is not known to me. 

j J p, 2 t 3 2 1 5 f I he t / 1 bk ' ofpltt u ds is taken from cl 1 apte rs 
ii* in, iv* of the Latjkujdtakam-. 

For the reading of the terms naim-rgiko^ vimiAra, and 
ahftddi/a (p. 2 1 5) r 3 am indebted to Prof, II. Jacobi , Kiel* 

The number 25, af, in the column with the heading The 
W'ftr of f-htit' niFtiffi+ht dr, seems to be a mistake for 3. ^r- 

Pp. 2 1 7 219. — Tliis table of the zodiacal signs has been 
taken from laffJmjYifafom.-, chap* l 

Pp. 221. 22 2. --Tills table of the Rouses has been taken 
from Lttfjh vj&fafri'im, chap. L 15. 

toll* IT* 2 0 


4^2 


ALBERUNrS INDIA. 


P. 234. — The notes on comets and other meteorological 
subjects, with which the author concludes his book, have 
been taken from the Be iko.t-S* t tixh fid of Vanlhattiihira,. 

Pp. 23 7-23 S, — This table of comets is taken from 
Bj *iha t - Smi 1 Mid , chap ► xi. 1 o- 2 8 - 

The children of the fire are called htl&Smutdh in Sans- 
krit, in Arabic J'L ] . which I cannot explain* 

Pp. 241-244. — This table of comets is taken from 
Byihtl-Sftmfoihi,, chap, xi, 29-31. 

The reading &*jj 9 instead of jictrf moke-fa^ seems to 
be a mistake of the copyist for 

P. 245. Bock of the mcdir-im tf depkants *— On this and 
similar literature, ef. A* Weber, \ r ovlemttffev uSy IwHseft# 
L if n -a i ft rgmchidt k\ p> 289. 


INDEX T, 


7t= Mitya, i. 215 
alula, ii ns 
abdhii L J78 
Abb up A r 3, 3. 200 
abhilstala, i. 2 30 
Abhi, i. 303 

abbijit, L 340, 3-1 1 T 312; El. GO, 
85, 87 , 127 

Alibi ni, 5. 300. 301, 302 
sblu-ft, i. 17 8 
Abika ( V> t i. 2fl9 
Scfirva, i, 155 
Aevi .1 m, <>■ 

Aflarsa, l. 302 
*Ulhak&. i. lG3 r lG3 r 164 
ftdbas. r. 290 

adhi luaBa, iL 20 23 ; n ns versa 3 

or partial, ii. 23 
AdbiMh+fiaria, i. 207 ; ii. 181 

adboinukha, 5, <>j 

fldi, L. 173 ; ii. 23 
idi-pm-atia, i, 130 
iL 121 

A.dittahaur, L 200 

Mitya, i, 1KJ, 173, 215. 2D-. 291 

adityjivflra, L 213 

Mitya-puriim, i. 130 H 1G8, 217, 
220, 230 , 232, 243, 80* 
Sditya-putra, L 215 
suiri, i. I 78 
Atra, I, 17S 

sigaatya, L 132; ii. OG, 93 t 92, 94 

Agastyamata, i. 182 

AgdUs (f), ii. 178 

agneya, i. 200, 297, 301 ; ii. 203 

Agniy a, i, 358 

A snip L 13], 178, 212, 342, 357. 

858, 394; H. 121, 125 
Agiviba (2), i, 304 
A gii kilim, i. 391 
agnihotrin, L 102 


Agnijihra, i. 231 
Agniroukba, i. 281 
Agnityn, L 302 
Agmye&a, i. 159 
agokitu, i. 220 
aban, i. 3b8 ; ti. 20 
abacikara, L 1 L 

ab&rgann, i. 355, 3G8 ; ii. 20, 27 
S^A 34, 40 **/., 48, CO, 110, ]s4 

rlliu LL, i i. 1 1 0 

Abirbudlinyu, i„ 512 ; it, OC, 122 

dhot, ii. ISO 

ahoiAtra, i. 359 

aindva, i. 155 

Aim, vatu, it. 2=15 

fliStlua, i. 290, 297 ; ii. 202 

ai^uya, i. 303 

Aja, i. 342, 55S 

Aja. ekapM, iL 122 

A j i h 1 jj li at (Ayin3hv:i.), i. £00 

A k:i.rii t L 301 

tlksMft, i. 178 
akbihnra, i. 172 

akshauhiini. i. 179, 403, 1 07, 40S 

akshi, i. 178 

A ilka, i, 300 

Alfspfl e t 1. 203 

AjnaiAvatt, i. 271 

Am ardv atipura, i. 271 

amliv^ya > i. 349 ; ii. 135, 197 

ainbara, i. l?S r 803 

amb&ratalu, i. 230 

Anaharl&ha, L 113 

Ambashtha., 1 . 301 

amrita, i'. 54, £53, £0£, 344 : il. 107 

Eim^aka, i. 140, 144 

aiis&Xya, ii. 227 

ain^u, J. 217, 230 

a 1 ljh 1 Liu an 1, i. 2E7 

jLiiakt, ii. 123 

Anandapfrla, i. 135; ii. 13 


4°4 


ALBERUNPS INDIA. 


Atlanta, 1 . 2*7, 247, £9 S 
Andr t i. £05 
Anarttftj, i, 300, 3 >>2 
And lira, L 233, ■ <J, 301 
AiultuadrAif i. ] 78 

Audi nl. i. 173 
andt, i. let, 102, 133 
a -flap, a, 178, 301 
ndg&rd t Ii. 128 

AftgirM, ii 331, ’215, 291, 390; ii. 

127 

Angillrti I 103 

An lsil vttra, i. 133 # 205 ; ii. 3, 7 
: i a 1 1 k i 1 1 i T 5, 'JOT 
Aniln, L 342 
Aniln, i. 2 J8 

A aiirmldlia, i, 308 
Anjaiui, i. 300 

t'l.aikil, i 1 74 
ant. a, b 210 
Autaku, i. 342 
autjvra, i. 1?8 ; if. 105 
A ntn rd vi n.'ij f. 3 02 
AnLurikdiu, i. 3 Li B 
au taviktiliy ft, ii. 23 n 
Aisr.iH'vedi, i. 2l 1 ■{□uteak 
Antiib&ft, L. 107 
nutya, i. 175 
matyaja, i. 101 
an«j, i< 537 
Aj luLi la da, i. 231 

amiradbA, f. 238, 30], 303 ; ii, 55, 

80, 122, m 

A'uuil'ij, i. 255 
ALiuti&ptfr, i. 202 
Rimvatsarn, ii. 125 
A iiuVLSh;i f i r -SO:-! 
ttpaddbiirma, L 133 
ApliiiitniiTti, L 391 
a j>5..tia , E. 3ft9 
A para { !), i. 304 
Aparintn {?), i. 300 

A [:*:-L3 iIcj t-uk u, i. 302 

Apius, i. 3l2 ; ti. 122 

Apaatamba, j» 151 
aprulid]irkbya f j. 372 

apaams, i. 247, 348 
ApsOr, i. 202 
f&pt.a-pn ran a- k fto, i. 237 
Ara, i. 215 
ay any a, i. 133 
Aravuinbaditliiij L 302 

arlmcJjSj L 170 

ai'lntdarn, i. 177 
ardliavi^nj 1 !, i, 173 
Ai'tlia, i 202 


ftrchii, i 218; iL 00, 84, 80, 121 

avgba* ii. 05 

Aria an t f i. 110, 121 

ArEmtu (V), ii. 142 

Ari, i. 300 

ArjiiTia, L 20, 52 r 35* 403 ; ii. 138 

Arjnaitvanu, t. 302 

«rka> L 179, 21.3, 217; ii. 125 

di ki, i. 215 

Ark«tirth«, i. 200 

Av-.r, l 205 , 200 

arthn, i. 17 S 

Artbaylsbiiva (?) P i. 209 

AruiUi, i. 250 

Annm, i. 255; ii. 143, 233 

Armidbiili, i, 890 

Aa u n i, i. 304 

Arras udhami (V), i. 303 

ary 5, i. 143 

Ai vabjmr.il, i 15 h, 1(58, 225/227, 244, 
210, 205, 20 Tj '208, 275^277, 280. 
370,873,370,377, 388 : ii. 10, 17, 
, 18, 19, 3:3, 1 Jl, 11)0 
A rval .1 1 at.L {of Kvisnmaptiift), h 17S t 
r 24 U, 3 i 6, 830., 335, 3?0 
Aryaku, i. 251 

Aryuuoiuip i. 2lT f 2 4 2, 8 12 ; if. 121, 
190 

iTiry Li.h-li ta^ata, i, 157, 330 
drydvarta, b 173 ; if. 0 
(lid, L 179 

(?), i. 230 
A.rWia {?), [. 308 
As-H-il.'j. 209 

a*buti (¥), i. 215 

A^;Vrvari f i. 387 

MiudJm, L 211, 217, 218, 357 , 353, 
403; ii, 90, 99, 100, 173, 176 t 

ns, m 

a&fita, i. 178 
jLditaka, ii. 183 
asliti, L 179 

An!,’ i. 202 

aaipaLLmvam^ L til 

nsitn* i. 215 ; ii. 235 

&&s i 213, 291 ; ii. 84, 121 

Aamaka. i, 300, 802 

dspLujit, i. 21 u 

d^Liamnvftw., i. 333 

aynka r ii, HO 

A^Lagtri, i* 8Q2 

astki, ii+ 2J1 

a^iara, i. 00, 247, 325., 331 
iLtfviLfUfldha, i r J33 ; ii. 2, 139 
A a Vad in 1 a, j, 301 

Aavamuklia, i, M2 


INDEX, 


■io5 


A4vatara, L 231, 247 
aivattlm, i. S6 ; ir. !1Q, Ml 
AHVaLl.luImaM, L 133, 394, 3^8, -tO'^ 
406 

d^vayitja, i. 21 7, 218, 358, 403 : je. 
08, 173, [77, 179, ISO 193 
V E cij i. 159, 178 ; \u 122 ., 122 
aavitrt, i £18, 242, 3u9 j ii. S4 ? 88, 
12£> 128 
a tala, i, 230 
A^avyn, i. 300 
fttiiai'vansirTflrta, i. 127, 129 
atirlbrits, i. 179 
atiix, xL 197 
Afcinftmau, i. 394 

ativahika, i. 63 
Altman, i. 351 
SUicjfLpiinjiHUa, i 321 
Atneys, j. 103, 3U0 T 383 
A hi, i. 131, 291, 30 4+ 3D0 a 'm 

l 1 . 1 t:lt hJ ;' i r it. 170 

n.tvLi [$\ i. 343 
atyaaliti, i. 1 79 
Ao(MiLiUnr:4 i* 200 
Aulmtia {?), ii. 190 
Aurva, ii.3 9l 
A j* Wa tty l 337 
autumn, j. USj 

tti'iwrni if. 38, -l-l, 47, ‘iSj 51, 53, 
54 

ftvsuieya, i„ 215 
Avantj, L 298, 301 
Avartaj ii. 244 

a vaearp i rn . h 3?1 
avaiv^sa, i. 339 
avyakta, i. 40 
aynna, i 556 f 308 ; ii. US 
Ay an A (*), i. 257 
gLyiii'dftya, ii. 223 
Eiyata, i. 175 
ayutiLiEij. i. 170, 177 

b = Endba > i. 215 
BabrahAn, L 206 
BMar.'v i. 302 
baribatau { 0, 1. 101, 102 
Baga f i. 208 
Baba, i. 231 ^ 
brthiiiid, ii. 173 
BubimaiTrim, i. 251 
B'i.hr6j (t. Riliroj), i. 295* 261 
Bfdmdsbtf. (1), L 259 
Whudb&piya, ii. J 27 
bakabflfct fl), ii. £08 
bala r ii. 220, 230 
Ealabaudlm* L 387 


Balabbadra, i. I5n + 157, 158, £25, 
227, 230, 235, 2 IS (?). 24 1 ,213,244, 
216, 273, 274, 277, 279, 251, 232, 
317, 401, M ; il 70, 75, 187 

llal.il 0 1 1 d, ii, 127 

Baladeva, i. ] 1 S 

BidaduvapattiLtiap i. SOI 

bft.1 Agra, L 1 6 2 

] in HfdLXLka, ii. 101 

b&lava, ii. 107, I0O 

Bair, i. 117, 120, 231 3S7 t 300 ; ii. 

U, 145, 182 
BfllLrfijja, ii, 1 82 
Biicl av.ar, i, 205 
Baluka (l), L 257 

Balu vali iii i, i, 207 
M m.-i.li ii r,' S. 202 

Bambanva (not Balimaa^), L 21, 
173, 205, 310 

Buoitra:-! (E : ><.:[iHr@£i), i r 200 
Banavfi^ i. 202 
Eiang&Ea, i. 1.58 
kmij, ii. 197, 109 
EaiijuIbL, i. 257 

b?lr;t, i, £13 

Baraiuutf^ I, 207 

Barbara, i, 261 S02 ; il 129 

Bard ail, ii. 8 

bardf (?), i. 405 

barb, 1 3:19 

Barhamffl, i. 200 

BaH, L 200, 201, 201 

barkbiij, i. 359, 313 (?) ; ii, 197 

Bsorodd, i. 403 

Bar Si, i. 20 S | ii. 105 

baralj, i. 359 

BaraLLdvar (Pusliavar}, i £11 

B^rTa-ii flat, t. 261 

Bafiftrna{i), L 800 

biiTA, ii. 197+ 199 
Bav&rij, i, £03 
BaeAtitt (J), i- 202, 205, 300 
BcruiffiSj i, £2, 15G, 173 ; ii, 146, 
147 

Ekadatta (?), i. 150 
HLadila (?), i. 157 
Ebadrafc&r* (lb i. 200 
BJifidra. i. 300, 301 
bbadrapaiM, i, 217, 218, 340, 258, 
403 ;. ii. % 1% 173, 175,177, 180, 
193 

Ebadra^VAj i, 243 

Bbaga, 1 217, 858 ; ii. 121, 128 

bhAgaMra) ii. 30, IS9, 190 

BliiigiiT-it, i. 255 

BMgjiv.iitEL, L 121 j 131 


4 o 6 


ALBBRUNFS INDIA. 


Bbagavatijr 118, 120 ; if. 177,179 f 

ieo 

BbAgeya (¥), i. 342 
BhflgtwnK ji. 143, 144 

I it i ;*li I hA ii . i. 20® 
bhaik&bukt, L 173 
EhaHa, i. 805 
Bhitnurajna f 7}, L 1 54* 
hh&nu, 5. 170, 215, 217 
rbi'i.nuyjLsaK (?), f t'f r EhftnurEijatO, i. 

157 

Blmuukanchra (!i, i K 3W 
bhftra, i. 185 
bbara, L 130 
BbarvultFij i. 3CHJ 
Bhararkajs, i. 594, 303 
bhaiaiil, i. £l3i si. 84, 1££ 

Ebbratru i. 262, 204 
EbJkata, i, 20, 117, 132, 134; ii. 1, 
147 r 153 

Bl i . L ivlI .i-'h lunJuL, i. £49< 29 !„ 295, 
296, 207 

Eh&rgava, i. 152 f 215, 372, 303 
Bbarma (7), ii, 120 
bhama (?), ii. 101 
Bharnkatscha., i, 301 

BhitaL, i, an 
Biikti, L 205 
Bh&fciya, i. 173 
iihat.rila, ii. 208 

lltaiit ieL. i. 230 

hhaiiwya* ir 21." 
bhautya, a . 387 
bhftva, ii- 127 
bhavaketu, ii. 243 
Bh&vin (?), in 254 

II bavin by a. i r 18 T 
bllavishyA-jiurzimi, i. E50 
BhillamiBa, J. 153, 207 
Bhiina, ii. 13 
Bhtmap&la, ii. 13 
Bbhnarathi, i. 257 
Biiluaaeiena, 3, ‘tOlE 
Bblshina, i, 133 

b his h tn l- l pa ii ca rii t trip ii. 177. 
Bhogapraatha, i. 302 
Blmgavardh&na, a. 300 
Bboja, i. 300 
Bhot&shar* 3. 201 1 206 
bbrBnUaara, ii. 92 
TShrt gu, L 77, 215, 201 
fohrigupufcra, L 215 
bbrigulolm.* ii. 233 
Bbujaga, b 312 

btankti, 4 353; ii. 80, S3, 195, 201), 
205, 200, £07 


bhiiktyantara ii r 105 
blmmi (?) p ir 387 
BhOmihara, i, 203 
bhfipa, i. 170 
bliftri, ir 175 

lihtirieh&naj i. 387 
bhurja. i. 171 

bhbrloka,, I, 45, 232, 233, 233 

bbilta, i. 00, 9®, 93, 178 

IH-jbtttjH.ara, i. 3b5 
BEmvatiakti^a, i. 201 
bhuvarlmka, L 45, 232, 238 
bibatfi 17), i. 215 
BEhat, a. 201 
Bihrnj, L 20!) 
b M {?}, i. 165. 16S 
Ultra, i. 202 
BMr, i. 359 
btya, ii. 107 
1 by aba, i, 259, £00 
Biyafcta, i. 20(1. 25!), 230 
BJv [•: plava), ii. 202 
Bodha, i. 200 
bodhana, i. 215 
Brah marl a i,i ski, li, 237 
brabimidi it, 118 
Brahmagupta, i. 147, 150. 153, 134, 
166, 168, 223, 324, 2-4 4, 243, £07, 
272, 276. 277, £70, 2*0, £83, 283, 
312 , 514 , 335 , 50.8 ;m, 370 , 372 , 
373, 374. 376, 377, 386 t ii. 4, 7, 
In, 16, 17, 18, 19 r 24, 28, 31, 46, 
50, 71, 73, 74, 75- 76, 77, 78, 8£ p 
90, 110, lll t IIS, 186, 180, 192 

bralLnnlbHfrAtra, i. 301 
brabtualuka, i. 253 
brahman, L 23, 54, 72, 77, 89, 02. 
9*1, 100* 1 16, 118, 125, 120 ■ his 
sons, i, 131, 1 34, 153, 155 c 157, 
150, 176, 241, 256. 266, 82 J . 332, 
. - .y., \m , 332, 312, 350, 352, 56!>. 
3 til, 363, 869, 3B0, 386; ii. £ ; 
life ol, it. 28, 65, 00, 115, llli, 
118, 1 20, 145, 147* 109, £37 

Bra.htn.aii , era of , is. 1 
brahman*, 1(K>* 102, 104, 121 
brahman a {?), ii, 450 
brahmftnda, i. 131, 221 *r*/. p 287 

brahTnAniia-imTaiia, E. 130 
Brabcniiui, i, 119 
Brahmaputra, i, 305 
brahma- pararift, i. 150 
Brahmaputra, i. 387 
brahmaribi, i. 03, 247 
Brabm ariipa, f, 250 

Brail rrvasftvarni. i. 387 


INDEX. 


407 


bralimasiddLfmfc;*, i. 138, 153; table 
of cud touts, i. 1 54, 223, 224, 267,. 
27ft, 352 ; ii 110 f 112 
liralLmavaLvarta, L 131 
Brahmin* ii. 95, 9 ft, 98, 100, 10 9 f 
Iti), 31 i, 130 w 7 „ 149, loli I5S, 
170,1.50, 1 81, 183, ISO, 191 
Bra.hmi?t.Um f L 202 
Bjihaspaii, i. 132, 393 
bnhncpatiyr'lra, i. 213 
btidbOf. L 215 
b'jdhaTira, i. 213 

Buddha, h 40, 110, 121, 153, 2-13; 
u. 169 

Bnddliodana, k 40, 330 
BudknYa, i. 387 
burlH (?), L 204 

o=candrrtj i. 215 
Cabraliasta ii. 120 
end wi ]■ (J), i L. 127 

eaitra, L 212, 217* 218, 358, 300, 
301, 403 ; ii. S, 10, 39, 43, 123, 
173, 170; imfciviiK ii, 173, 130, 
1ST, 1S3 

cfutcftrcaeliati (B, ii. 170 
Caitraka (?), 1 . 337 
craktbJika, L 334 

cakra, i. 114, 117, 118, 341 ; iL 101, 
107 

cnkrasYdnuu, i< 117 J ii. 103 
Oakii Uabhad ra {?), i L 120 
Cakskii, i. 26 1 
oikfihukha, i. 337 
Cntehiis, i. 201 
c&kskusha, i, 337 
calakehi, ii. 24 1 
Cidiui (T), i 137 
udmAbiL, Li. 133, 181 
c£naariw L 140 
Cifttnuiidji, L 120 
camCL, k 407 
■cana (?), t, 1 03 
Oitfictikfij E. 302 

c.in.JilK 3. 101, 230, 341, 381 ; ii. 

137, IBS, 103 

Caudai] A, k 

Caudarabu, i. 200 

caudra, 5. 173, 215, 216; iL 21, 101 
cflndra, i r 185, 2li 
QmdcabMg&i i. 259 
CandraMja (?), ii. ft 
CAlidrftlla, l. 206, 251) 
cacidriLbaj.-g'ajia, ii. 27 
caudraiD&ria, i. 358, 85-4 
cand^iparYato, ii- 148 


Caodrapura, i. 300 
cnnilrayiriK!, ii. 1 7 ft 
eAnfciuia (f), i. 544 
Caxa-ka, i. 159, 102, 382 
Camiadvipa, i. 301 
( ’i)rniakhaii<lila f i 300 
Oirmanvati,’ i. 257, 200 ; il 134 
Camiaianga, i. 302 
Carehayab [!}, i» 394 
cafibaka, i, 534 387 ; U+ 52i 5 ft, 

189 

caturyuga, i. 32 6, 354, 353, 303 scy., 
372 st q., 38ft, 308 ; ii. 1,2, 17. Ms, 
25, 57 lBfi t 159 
cattiabpadfi t ii. I97 f 108, 200 
Caulya, i. 290 
caiidahl, if, 107 
caut, ii. 3 97 
ceslitAbala, ii. 225 
cha-ridaa, i, 13 S 
cLidra, i, 178 
cikith.^, i. 855 
Min i, i. 261, 303 ; if. 239 
OipikLn&gika, i, 302 
CLramvasana, i. 805 
atrip L 218, 342 ; ii. 83, 121, 127 
citrftbh&Ein, i:k 127 
Cit.rakiit.it, i. 301 
CitrAfifiida, ii. 120 
Uitrapala, k £57 
CilrakfLtzi, i. 257 
Oitra&H, i. 255 

C itruwcna, 1 , 387 
O-md^ara, {?), ii, 143 
Cola* i. 301 ; ii, 259 
Malika (?}, L a 01 
Cyjtvana, i. 231 

EADnr, l 173, 235 

dadbinj a^idu, i. 235 
dndiiis&gar^ k 156, E35 

Dj dull i t, i, 202 

dak ana, i. 178 
<Mbariya(¥), i. 344 
drdijn, ii. 107 
Dahmfila, i. 205 

Daib.i], i. 208 

Daihak, k 189 

daitya, h 91, 231, 237, 217, 248, 
267, 273, 270, 280, 584 \ ik HO 
didtyAutara r L 266 
Dalubft, i. 54, 131, 251, 387 
dakfibakula, i + 5i>7 
djiknimputra, i B8? 
dukfdiin.n, i. 200 

Btoiun&tyii, k 300 


ALBERUJVPS INDIA > 


408 

daltHhiniyaiia, i. 356, 367 
Damara, i. 303 
damariyri (?) t i. 314 
Pamiri, i, 254 
D AmadarA, i. 403 
cUUiAdb^rtCa, i„ 133 
DAnak, i. 303 

dAnira, i. 01, 231, 237, 248 r 256, 
272, 330, 331 
diittsi vacant, i- 213 
Ihmda/b 803 : ll 97 

rtdfthamftt (?), ii. 1 7 < ■> 

' U-iki, i. 300 
DAijd&kftvami., i. 301 
dantiti, L- 17 h i 
O antuva, i. 301 
DattAda, i. 261 
J )a fjia v, i. 200 
darblta, if. 130, 131 
I) a rd lira, 1. 301 
DArva, i. 303 
lJ*md, i, 200 

dasny 1 ti k.l, i. 157 1 380 
dttH&talmhA, i. 170 
clsilani f i, 175 
DAaarn^ya. i, 303 
Darva, a 300 
Dasapura, i. 30 J 
I la-Wha, [.117, 306, 372 
llMnp, i. 301 
DaB:! mil h 1 . 257 
d&tfagaWira, i 170 
PtUera (’:, i. 302 
Pasemka {E)i i 300 
Oasra, i- 17 w, 342 
diteta, f- 166 

1 lathi, i, 304 
duiibtlilni, 13 , 177 
deftntara, i. 312, 314, 315 
dev*, i, 90, 01, 92, 05, 15!?. 176, 
247, 248, 252, £56, 266, 272, 330, 
531 n iE. 613, 66, 06, 90, 130. 140, 
141 P 177, £70, 280* 357 
deva^iha, ii. 178 
devaka, i. 340, 352, 860, 872 
Devafeirti, l 1-58 
D^vftEa, i, 132 ; ii. 28,3 

duvalika, if, £83 
duvaurtiiitiha, i H £15 
DevAadga, L 387 
devELpi'tft, i. 216 
devapuroliita, i- 215 
ijevas'tni, it* 176 
U^vagreehtAj T r 387 
Dtivajta ‘ i 387 
devujya, L 21 0 


Pevika, i. 250 

Dhditism, i. 304 

DbaimJijzL-yLL, i. 231, 398 

dhamahrha. i. 2H, 201 ; 11 , 83 

dhani&hthLi, it. 122, 124 

dhanu, i. 106, 820 

Phan ash man { '), L 302 

1 ihanya, l. 254 

l-riiarj. 202, 203 

hhAra, L 191 

dham^lj i. 17w 

d harm a, i. 40, 132, :!f2, 241 

Dbarin&ttwjya, i. 300 

■. I h-i rm aH:t vur 1 1 i , i. 387 

t rtjjltri , f. 217, 238, 342 - ti, [2 
dhi, L 178 
lib [vara, i. 262 
dMb, ii. 183 
Phrushiis, L 387 
Dhritaketu, i. 3lSi 
DkiftariUhtra, i. 108, Jfllt 
dhrifci, i. 179 
Dliv fti mat T i. 394 
dhruva, i, 233* 241 
iHim.vtLjjrllm (0- il 180 
DhflLika. (0, i. 261 

dhruv&ketu f'O, ii. 242 

dhuni (7), ii. 21 
dhurilsIiMba, 3i. 21 
Dhutnpapjl. f, 259 
iihyd.nagrfttift.dliViL-ya t L 155 
.llba.i, ii. 182 
dikfshita, E. 102 
Dili pa ii. 174 
dim mm, i. 554 

Pi papa, i. 262 

DiptimUt, i. 301 

Dirgtifigrlva, i. 302 

Dirgha-kefeft, i. 302 

Dirghamukha, a. 302 

Pirvari {Dittvi-U), i. 173 

D j r varfdeaa, i. 173 

dia, 1. 1 78, 179 

THvakanbAr, i. 210 

DEviVkara, i- 158 , 2i5, 217 

Diva kt'idhsu, i. 210 

divert, i. 350 

i)iviVfi& (!), t. 301 

Dlvaspatu f. 387 

divya. i. 12, 374 : ii- 235 

divyahorrltra, L 029 

THvyatattvn., i. 157 

1 i i v y ay ar>b a, i. 359, 36S ; if. 2 

\ liyatEiau, 5. 205 

Dki&b (?], ii. 140 

dtunba, l . lUlj, 102 


INDEX. 


4 09 


Dr&mida, i. SO '2 
drankslmnn, A 101 
i- 173 

DraviiM, ii. ID! 
drekkiijt^ ii. '2.9, 233 

drigbalni, ii, £20 

BriMk (?), u 300 
Dj-LdLJwTvat], i. £S& 
fl nn] Lti 5n Jtl n n ih 2-5 
jjniiifl, l. 133, 162, 1(53, 1 04, 254, 
394, 398, 493, 400 j ii, 101 
Dnjt.™, i. 239 
mtljiM, L 202 
EQgnm, L 201 
Dftgtmiptir, i. 200 
riuiidubuf, if. 12$ 

Etinpur, i. 200, 211, SI 7 
Durga, i. 309 
iHirgil, i, 257 
Durga v 1 vrittl , j. 133 
Lmrlabha, ii. 9, 10, 34 
durmat.i, ’A, 123 
durtains, (-), i, 371 

I) li 1. 404 

Duiyodbam, F. 133 
Dll ally SOT tap ii. 1/4 

di.ivFiUi, if, 197 

tliiTfi, ii. 174 
TOvftq'dpm, i. 398 
ckfip:ir» r b S72, 307, 39$ 
dvapfira-yirgH, L 120, 373 ; dtri-criji- 
tiii]j. r. 380 ; iu 0 ; its begiiiiKtig, 
ii* 180 

Dv:it, i. 207 
dvipjyvai'il, i. 210 

dvtjsii, 3 . IDS, 233, 231, 235, 235, 

243, 231 w/., mn, m, m t m ; 

ii. 144 

dvkvaubl-vn, ii. 220 
Dytitij i, 304 
Dyntiimit, l 394 

E3£iCAKAKAj i. SOS 
etairij i. 170 
ukamikta., ii, 172 
[■’kiipiula. i. SOI 
Eknvibeaiia. i. 302 
ICISpatra, if r 120 

t^A f i. 340 
pabb aatal a f 5, 230 
Hjitbhafeitftiitttj i, 230, 290 
GabMra, i. 337 
gad£, i. 1 33 

gagai is „ i. 1 / 8 

gjUlmi (?}* it* ISO 


Gutaihi (?}, L 13? 
g:ij:L r i. 173, 300 
Gnjakarna, i, £31 
GftWii, i, 304 
gann, i. 407 

grLlin (?} f ii. 181 

Ganak:i t if, £38 
Ganapati (?), ii. 121 

G ;i rariijy ^ , h 001 
Vitruk, i. 203 
Gamkhl, h 239 
gnprluiitn, ti. 20S 
gaud ha, j. 42 

Gatidhamfokun, i. £]£, 249 
Gu&dMru, 3 . 21, 25% 201, 300, 303 
gan d i] arva, i . 89,0 ] , 23 3, 217,2 6£ > SOS 
gfnidbfcrr'B, i. 290 
GfmdbatvJ, ii. 142 
G-Mngd, ]. 200 &&]., 203j, 253, 204, 
209, 201 ; ii. 144 

G fi ligfti i v/ii'a, j, 19® 

Gaiig^igara, i, 201 
0jtng4s^yai% i. 201 
Gutigciy^ i. £02 
gain, ii. I97i TOO 
Gurbba, i. 230 
garbliMliAsiaj ti. 150 
G:irga, l 107, M2 3 382, 390, 391 ; 
ii. 00, 110, 235 

gam da, i, IH, 130 1 31, I OS, 194, 
231 t 203, 344 

Gaud: i, tills imiilmritc^ i* 1 32 
Gmukkn, i. 301 
giLllni, i. 161 
Uama(?), ii. 143 
GauragriYa, h 300 
GiuirJ [Gaud]), i. 373 
Guui-t, E. 119- Li. 123, 179, 1*82, 133 
Gaur-kr (gauii-lrhiya;, ii. 177, 170 
Gnu tam a, i. 131. 391, 30 2 
g4yat.L-i, i, 147 
ghaiiUj 140 ± 141, 1 4^1 
gbati, i. 334 337 s 338, 349, 302, 

SOEi ; ii. 48, 52, 50, 189, 190, 19=1, 
200 

ghjittik&, i. 279, 282, 280 
GSn:.ra, ii. 202 
Gtu:r%v!L]id r i. 209 
GSiosba* i. 3(HJ ? 803 
gliiatainaiuja, i. 235 
Gjiu/ak f i r 209 
Giri„ L 302 
C h'iiagarni, i. 301 

gild, quoi+iri, i. £9. 30, 40. 02-54, 
7 O— 7 2, 7 S-7 4, 1 -ji, / 0 P 78, 79, 8 Oj, 
80, 90 f 103-104, 122 


4 io 


ALUliRUNl'S INDIA, 


OukUir.L ( !> ? i. 394 

6 ^, 1 I?® 

QixUvv’m'j, f. “2i?3 
Gritanr!, L 25? 

£H I k 'Ll' II II J. 1 li 7 

Gamait, i. 250 
gmnedii., i. 235 
joined;! dvliKtf i. 235 t 25 & 

Gumukba, t. 231 
Gonarda, 301 
GuYiuda, u 200 j 403 
grata, i + 140 

grAhftj i. 204 
Hfrfahmii, i. 357 
Chula, h £00 
git lb it man a (?} h i. 158 
gOlmtiya, i. 044 
£11 ] nm, l 40 ? 
gunak&ra, ii. 30, 1 -3 D a 300 
gtn&laMd (¥), ii. 131 
Gupta, ir. 5, 7 r 49 
Guptakfilo, ii. 7, 0+ 40 
gum, i. 108, 140, 145, MG, 215, 
3-12 ; ii, 121 
Gun ill it, i- 302 
gu\|iitt-l)&.trlj f ii. 182 
Gozar&t, l. 2il2 
Gv^lior, i, 202 

itAdI(¥), i. 101, 102 
HAUu(!) 1 \. 257 
Huihaya, i. 302 
Hamsun iftrga, i. 202 
llamsnpura.j i. 208 
1 f rij iil i : i urn , i r 208 
Hi! i 207 

hu-uftli f?), ii. 180 
it. mi, i + 254, 342, a 82, 398 
Haribbatta (¥) f i. 141 
HaTipmruidi&j s. 252 
Hiivita, H 131 
1 ] ii ri v a ii j 4a- p a irv n , i. 103 
Harrrar&tiai, 240 
Marrilin, ii, 5, 7 
Hary Atman, L, 303 
hnista, L 21 8 :. ii 85i 121 
hswtin, i. 14 ", HI, 148 
Imithii, i. 188 
hrmlmva (?)> i. 408 
Haviishniat, i. 304 
Il.avya, i. 304 
HayagnvA, i + 281 

hell, l. 215 
iremagiri, t. 302 

iiBiitulamlu, ii r 128 

Lcuiakfitis i. 247, 240 


HutnaJtfiLyii, j. 301 
humfiiita,' i. 357 
Hemal Sla, i, 302 
hfcinna, i- 215 
J \ t magi ri t i. 240 
himagn,, L 215 
himamayOkliri, i r 215 

iji[]]jira^uii, u 215 
li l l'sjm'v ilu j, i. 302 

Itima-Tant:, f. 310, 246, 247, 21 8, 
258, 28 J , 2fl4 r 205, 80S ; ii, 170 
Hiiidbu, ii. 120 
hiuduli-caitra, ii. 178 
I ! i r.'iTi i nay n, i. 240 
HiranynJcnsLpix,. h £64 
Ilirany&ksha, i. 231 f ii. 140 
Iliranyaruraaii-, i. 301 
hum, l 126 f ii. 98, 130 
bar A, i. 343 ; th&ir names, 344 

lirTr^-pabaa-hotfEya {l) t L 158 
] lOj;1: l i pH ti , i. 343 
Hi-Adiut, t. m t 282 
Epabikpik, i. -103 

Hue] vi i da ( ^), f. 300 

Hdlisiia ( I), i. 300 
J I0.ua, i. 300, 302 
J-liii:“Ha, if. 127 
huUSsaua, L 173 

jdAvatsam, if. 125 
iktiliu, t, 235 
fk&lmlii, l 25? 
ikalium^ida, i 235 
ikhftun {?), i, 178 
J kHjvAkii, i. 38 7 
lid m, i. 230 
lifivtith, i, 248 

Iudra, k 89, 92, 03, 113, 110. 150, 
217, 231, 252, 27L 292, 842 h 357 
Sfil, 38A, 887, £93, 308, 3^8; i;, 
101, 102, II .% 127, 128, 1 75, 243 
Indradvtpa,. i, 202 
J ii drably uimta, i. 202 
Indrady maiiaaarA&, i + 2fi2 
IinrErdtgritp i. 342, 358 ; it. 121 

lijdrjitu&rl.i, i„ 20 1 
1 tut j-ini, i, 120 

Indravfidi (v. Antarvedi}, i. 211 
imtriyjL, r, 178 
indny&nl, i, 42 

InduJ i.153, 178, 215 f ii + 121 
IrAva, i. 20'k 280 
IitvaU, 5 r 250 
HcAuyas (!}, L 304 

Iairika, L 300 
kdifm, i. 102 


INDEX. 


leliiij l 178 

livara, L 31, 179, SCI, 36 i2j 363 ] iL 
127 

JiUfm.v { ), i, 202 

JLgani, i. 230, 30Q 

Jahr&var, l 2fiU, aOO, 302 

JalJal j, i, 206, 207, 2o9, 317 

Jcii mini, i. 127, 132 

JajOlioti, L £02 

JajjumitLj, 1. ’200 

Jajjttnfr, i. 200 

jalaketu, ii. 213 

J [HiLtidluLr, i. 205 

j-!li LLJ ;‘I LVd-iiL] I k il, ]„ 133 

ja&gnya, i. 178 

jalatailtn, i. 201 

Jtt.luAdn.gni, i. 304 

j alll Oil, r, 235 ; iL 1212 

jainbuiivipa, b 235, 2-13, 25 1 1 253 

j.-mrl (?),}. 163 
jAEialokft, i. 232 
Jau&rdaua, i. 254 
Janarta {¥), L 231 
.Ian drib L 202 
J^ftgalri, i. 299 

JJjjftgalflj b i200 
j ttupei, L 2U0 
Jlltiujatiglia, L 037 
JarmapaUnLiiti [?J, i, 301 
■iJ .LH li (?), L as 2, 397 
j&takn, i. 100, 157 
jtakarman, if, 153 
Jiitsfeuni, b 303 
Jat&dhEiTa, i. 301 
J:ithara, i. SOL 
Jatt, i. 401 
J :a.r_UL]-; l : i r, I. 202 

Jau u (Yamiuifll, b 199, 200 &cq- r 
206/ ’254, £59, 25 J 
jaur, Hindu king, i. 200, 201) 
jay a, ii. 127 
Jay ants (?J f I. 231 
J tty an t-L 3 3. ] 7 5 
J ay ii [? a I li_, L. 1 \ 11| 13 

JUmOii 1 , i. 209 
JjraiHtt, ii, 10] 

■Tina, i. 110, 243 
jinaloka, i. 2-53 
Jjghnn, i. 153 
JLta, 1 304 

jltUj, i. 220 (? ccttliam) 
jLtuma, i. 220 
jtva. j* 215, 353 

jivalarnnS, i 341 

Jlv^armaii, L In?, 104 ; ii. 13l r 1S2 


4 1 1 

jfLa, i. 215 
Jriilga, i. 302 
jfiga* L 220 
J Ildar!, I 211 
JvdL.. (*), ii. 202 

jvjilaiia, i 140. HI, 3 4% 14,% 140, 
173 

jyaisLtlia, i. 2 17, 21% 340, 358, 403 ; 

if. 173; f^tlvald^ ii. 170, 193 
jvejBtihlaii, i. £18 ; ii, S5 r b'.b J22 
Jyotifi, L 394 
Jyotiaha, i. 300 
Jyofci^hnmt, L 394 

Ha, ii, 242 

Kabaiidha {?), i, 233 ; ii. 23$ 

Kabul, i. 200, 259, 317 ; iL 157 

Kdeii (V), b 2>;l 

Kacch, i. 203, 200 

Kscobdru, i. 303 

Kaeuhlyft^ i. 300 

kadamba, l 272 

Kadarn, ii. 120 

Kiulrti, L £52 

Ksiikayfl, L SOS 

Kaila^a, 3. 2-13, 303; ii. 142, 143 

Kaitdvttta, i, im 

Kaj, L 200 

Kajfij&lia, i. 202 

Kakatfstba, i\. i 70 

kalA, l 160, 357, 363 

kalabala, ii. 220 

kilabhg^a (?), iL 231 

KdlJjin:i, i. 301 

Kdlnka, i. 302 

k&fch&ikft, ii. 00 

KalttutiuLi i„ 2@1 

K&Lnijar, i. 202 
Kaldji-igi ama, i r 203 

kAl&v&brif L 34# ; ib £03 

katas!, i. 1 643 

Kdlatoyaka, i. SCO 

Kahivi’int.ii, ii, 125 

KidayavAiia, ii. 5 

kataynkta, ii. 123 

kali, L 140, 3d 3, 307 ; ii, 1, 103 

KulUlarei, t. 262 

K&lika (J), i. 201 

kaliMla, iL 1, 5 

KdiTigu,, b 23^ 293, 299, SOI 

Kkliya, i. 231 

kali vi s Era, i. 325, 373 ; description, 
b 330, 397 r 390 ; ii. 1, 4, 17, 
18, £% 59, 60 ; its beginning, Ii. 
ISO 

KAlkoti, 3. 300 


412 


ALB HR UN PS INDIA, 


Kal iaT s L L. l;i 

K=dm&ilm (?), ii, 121 
kiilp-i, i. 51, 175. 279, 325, m, 350, 
352, r:r>4, 36i>. 302, 368 &-' ?Jp 0 S 6 ; 
ii. 1,15 ^,l7 h I8 p 23,2S ? 67 *e?,, 
113 

fcidpAkai’gana, L 3(18 j ii, lift 

kti l{Ull a, i. ^68 

K a I V 7i rtiLV jlt m nil T i, 158 

KamaLO, IL 13 

kam«, l MO, HI, 115, 146 

kamiarirlidu, i, 1 IS 

Kampala, l, 231 p -247 
K&ubop, i. -302' 

K&mKtj 201 

Knmsia, i. 840 d 401, 4 03 ; ij, ISO 
K-lmyakaYana, ii. 3 
K&tmkn, i. 302; ii. 237 
ItajaasLt-biLi sijyit {!), i. 303 
KaubAvak, i. 203 
Kfiiirf, L 301 
K&mli i, 203 
Kii.ndji.kiistbri.iii. d l 301 
K&Ttdliftr {GandMra), i. £00 
KamlT, i. 317 ; ii. IS2- 
Mndlu, ii 3 23 
K.mik, si. 11 seq, 

Kanifc-caityn, ii. 11 
Kan 3 r, Ii, 8 
K&ijl, i. 2ilO, 20 U 
Knnkuit ii. 2ul, 233 

KankatiL, j, 301 
Kasi s i:\tai-n, i. 202 

Kauuara, i. 173 

Kaurjj, i . 21, 165, 173. I OS, m, 
200 t*q. 3 Sel t 317 ; ii 5, 8, 11, 
129 

Knatbsuili^nn, L 302 
ka nySs ■- 219* 220 

L ;l |. .:'11il/Lu L Ll , ii. 241 

Kasdlfl, i. 72, 132, 255 p 302, 321, 
325, m 

Kapiuktliala, L 300 
J-lLLjlJjliLtj E. 107 
kaiala, i* 34 4 
Ivara-lnu-djL {Ij, i, 257 
kanma, i. 1 55, 166, 157,351 ; ii. 104 
«ff, P 107, 193 p 2 HO 
karan fan im L , i „ 157 

)i lira la nklla Jldak I •& dy a k i„ 156 

kamsmparatilaka, i. 157 
karanapata, i. 157 

knmisas&ni. L 160. 31 7 r 302 j ii. 7, 

54 ; eo t 79, ao 

karanaMlaka, i. 156, 313,343 i ii, 7i 
50; 60, SO,' 205, 206 


kimlraCOj ii. 131 
Rnraakaw, i 300 

ICfiTHt.i i 259 
kark {=kliiidga) p i 204 
kwli&di, i. 05J 

karhinlaimn { k Ii iidgwlauta 1 k 1. 204 

krirkatfl, 3. £20 

Karkota, ii. 120 
K.-irkntaka, L 2U ; ii. 120 
Kuril, Lov.11, «, 317 
Karma, i. £62, v, AVrtttttA 
kaiifinai, i. 321 
Kib m.iu.-yak.'tf L. 301 
KarmAm, 3. 2 1 
kivTnui! flriyiini, L 44 
Knrna, 1 , 133 

KrtmapjAvirAna, i. 2t>2, 300 f o02 
Kuri.At.i. i. 17 B, 301 5 ii, I»{j 
Knritliiuleii, i. 174 
kfirftbii. i. 163 

kiVttik*, i, 23 7, 213, (458, ,403 ; ii. 
9S, 173, 177; festival, ii. 1S2, 
180, W6 

KArttikeya, i. 54 
Karftr, ii. G 
Karfiwlia, L 300 
K> innate, i, 300 
Ko^ritma-t, i. 296 

Kashmir, i. 21, 2% 10S, 3 26 k 135, 
173, 174, 205 f 200 211, 258, 

303. 317, Ml. 393 ; ii, 8, 0, iul, 
148, 173, 181 

kildsrlifi, \. 330 aq, p 362 

KML/i. 300 J 

Kdyaaa, L 216,212, 252, Sftl p 394 ; 

ii, 9d r 100 
KA4yapa|iura t i. 298 
K Atari tm, i. 135 
KfitvAyau^t, i. 131 
katt* i, 200 
k-nidavn. ii. 107. 1H9 
KaumAtl, i. 120 
Kaum.idu, l 303 
KausikmiiJi, ii. 233 
K‘fnnnv.!v T i. 103 
kaurbft f i, 220 
JCaiLsrdiJia* i, 301 
Kanahaks, (?), L 262 
Kauai kt, i. m 

Kaiifttubaj i, 261 
Kan very a, L 301 
KAvjaiA, i. 250 
Kavam, i. 261 

KsLvAtadLtnatr}, L 302 
Klrari, i. 257 
| Ka vini, i, 261 


INDEX. 


KrtTltalj t. 206 
Kftvya, i. 394 
Kaytitiiwji, i. 259 
KtiraUv i. 299 
KeraLakn,, L 301 
KefedLara* i. 303 
t. 231 

Ive.^v.i, i. 218, 3fil, 362, 403 
KeSvava, i. 342 ; ii 121 
tbtn N ii, 23-1, 233 

Kstumaia, r. 240 
ketnnlpn, ii 235 
Ha, i 17 8, 333,350 
Kbajm, l. 302 
ktuidira* ii, 90 
hlmnda, i. 166 , 20 5, 302 
kbandaHftilyaka, t. 156, 312 ; ii 7^ 
40, 49, 00, 79, 33, SG r S7, 91, 

110, 119, m t 137 
kbait d \\U 1 : eUI ya k* 1 tj p| 4 {?}, i. 1 5 3 
kbara T ii. 127 
Kh&ripatbn j i. 202 
kfa&if, i. 104 
kWva, i. 175, 170, 177 
Klm&n ( ! ), i. 262 
Khaehfi, i. 301,303 
Khautbsip i. 302 
khaurfu, L 170 
Kumbbaknma, ii 3 
i. 337 

JtiLkmdj i. 209 
Kikara, L 2 Oil 
klkka., it. 128 
]\1 remain* i, S ri 2 

KimpiirutLa; i. 249, 251, 202; ii. 
1-12 

kimtarii, 5, 91 
kiiutHglino, 5 k 197, 10 8 
Kir4, i. 259 
Kira, i. 303 
K ban ii, ii. 237 

KMca, i. 262, £00, 302, 3 OS 

Kiri (v. K.iodl], ii. 182 

Kirpa (J), L 257 

Kirva (?}* L 257 

Ki-s.nl ya,, 5. 299 

KiaUkiiiilba, i, 300, 301 

k tablet], L 107 

Kodara (7) f t. 300 

Kokala, i, 303 

Krdiivau% L 300 

Kollagm, 5. 301 

Ki»l\k:uiftj i. 301 

tam.a, i. 215 

Kopn=j i. 300 

Kosalu, ]. 299, 300, 301 


4*3 

koti, u 92, 175, 170, 177, 230, 24S t 
234, 303, 304 
k.jfipudma, 1 176 
Kriilfc {?), i, 300 ; 5i. 202 
KiamU, ii. 202 l>. note.#) 
Krathanakii, t. 231 
K rat 1 1 , i, 390 
kmuiica, L 235, 302 
Kravya, i. 302 
kjiocbra, if. 172 

kriuiL^t, L 00 

Krijwt, i 394 
Krlra-aamudra, :. 301 
kfisbina. i + 63, 233, 255* 257, 398 
krtalm:iUj£Um, i. 230 
kfEahiiapak^ba, t. 359 
KrifibuayaidOrya, i. 30 J 
kritu, i, 178, 372 
KritamAlft, 5. 257 
Kritnriijaya, 5. 3 OS 
Kraiincadvrp:> t i. 235, 254, 501 
kritaynfti, i. 1 IN, 370- description* 
i. 379 ; ii. 182 i its beginning, i. 
ZM, 397, 393 ; ii. ISO 
kritf, i. 179 ; ii. 129 
kiittikik U 149-145, 218, 291, 34 4 ; 
if. 84, 121 

Kpwa {'?), j, 3S3 
kriy.t, i, 229 
knvd.i, i. 341 
krLH-j.ha, ii. 123 
ki'odliit], ii, 12S 
kro&i, i. 186* Id 7, 275 
K rilva t'1>, i- 481 
krOrlk^bi {?), L 215 
kehati-iyjt, L 101, 104, 125. 247, 
353 ; ii. 95, 93, 136, 105, 157, 
181, 162, 170, 191 
kstatya, ii. 125 
Kskemadhilrin {?), i 303 
Kehetrapala, i. 120 
khiiiL-a, i 235, 284 
kahtrodaka, i« 235 
KhilmiJi'ittjjiua, i. 302 
kdiainhA. (?), ii. 130 
kabfinn* L 33f>, 337 
kaliAm, L 235 
Kiitata, L 201 
Kiibw% i, 19; if. 115 
Kucika, i. 303 
Kildaiabalir {?), ii. 1 Bl 
fciidavjs i. 1C 2, IP, 104, 105 
KvihfL, i. 259 
kujn f L 215 
TCykmvi, i. £00 
k0.kt, i, 3 6d 


4 H 


A LB ER UN PS INDIA. 


Kiifftrjak, I. 207 
.Kill aba, i. 201 
Knlika, L 344, S45 
Kulinda, i. 298, 300 
knlira, i, 220 
KulOfck, L 303 
KulfiralrtbiL-ln. i. 302 

K Lilya, i. 220 

KumArJ, L 'l:u 
kumbha, i. 220 

Uuiitblinkaniia, ii. 3 
Kumlilmka/L 321 
Kiimuda, i, 255 ; ii. 2-13 

K n rn li il vat.], i 25“ 

Kuntltba, i, 303 
Kulijiradaii., l r 301 
Kflnk, L 200 

Kiinkjin { K'saikan }, I.. 203 
Kun tinl itj, L 299, 300 
Kupatba (V) J. 202 
kfirii-lsaiiiLv (?), L 1 fit! 

Ktimlia^ i. 200 
Kuhtj, \. 302 
kOnua, i. 131 
kfrmhcakrRp L h 2!>7 
liurtmx-|Ki3 Lis;ii> d i. 1-30 
kwoh, it, 00 

Kuru, u 1$% 242, 202, 202, 29" 360 

ICurpfcili4strft h i. S03 T 31 6 j ii, 117 

Kunim, i, 251 

kiti^ k 235, 397 

k uainl v i t ill, l, 235, 254, 325 

Kuahikfbia, i. 202 

KuHapt Avniftna, i 262 

Kuiitidi-j, i r 20C 

kusivma, i. 140., 140 

knantnakAra, i. 357 

lCu£timiimiga p i, 30T 

Kusmoiaptmi, i. 310, 930, 335, -370 

kutAfii, L 120 

kii Liitlrn, r. I&l 

Kill!, I 205 
k nt taka, i. 155 

La, i* 140 
Ladd* {?), L 205 
laglm, i. 133 

TiagntuTTtiAn f ii. 13 
latgliU, i. 145, 140 
Lai l ore, L 259 
L:tl i tkr, i. 203 
Libdia, i. 17$, 230, 234 
Lakfibriil, 54 - ii. 182 
^klbliaksinif i. 01 
LaintgliAn, a. 250, 111 7 ; ii. 8 
LampAka, i. 300 


LruihagA, {. 250 < it, 8 
LAuiiiiiihi, 1. 257, 2 
Laftkft, i. 209, 207, 20S, 301, 303, 
m MQ. t 31fi T 370 
LArAis, a. 201J 
LArdeflti* i. 205 
L&i-U 1 73 

LAta, i, 1 HI, 2i)% 209, 230 
LAtidefk, i. 173 
Latiliftvur (Irahoi^), f. 200, 20& 
j.aululrj aunt 1 1', i. 317 
Laiiktlyiita, i. 132 
huktkakftlm iL 9, 54 
lava, a. 336, 037, 30’2 
lavaua, i. 2 o 5 
lavaniLmn^htj, i. 150 

l:LH , aii:iH;kininb , ii f a„ 205 

Li kbits, i. 131 
iikJiyft, i. 102 

lifts*, i. ILL 131, 181 ; IL 102, 103 

L-lUt (I), l 300 

ilyava, i. 220 

laciana, i. E 73 

Liib r-ivii ii r 8 

lotakAla, ii, 8 

lotAnanda, k 157 

l.ftnlj ii, 0 

LiOjarAtal, 5. 205, 203. 260, 313 

Lokkik i. 259 

Luhita, i. 231 ^ it. 143 

LijEiitmiLadl, IL 143 

Labitva, i. old 

loka.l 59, 232, 233 

JukAiak:., k 236, 267, 249, 284,230 

ltikapAla, ]. 247 

Mpa C?), L 257 

MaddiitandI Ii. 142 
M&lhava, i. 403 
Marlhra[?K i 300 
Mad Liu, i, 304 
Madhuslldaujij, i. 403 
maflkya{?), i. 140, 141, 143, 144, 
145, !4ti, 175 

madkyadeSa,. i. 173, 198*251;, 200 
madhyaioka, t. 59 
maiibyasis.'i, ii. 195 

Tmulliyamilya, ii. 228 

Madra, L 302 
Macla uka. i, 303 
ma.lr-3 (?), i. 161 
Mjuliura, i H 298 
maiiya (?) r f- -52 
M.l-'l, k 2., 121 
M.-iftaflLa, a, 299 
Ma^ul Jm, i. 262, 29^. 301 


INDEX \ 415 


MtfgJid ba, S* £55, 394 

iiL^ba ± 3 . fill, £17, 218, 403 ; ii. 

177; festival*!, 188, ISO 
magi l r 213, 390, 391 ; Si. 84, Jfil, 
124, ISO 

maMbhftta,i. 41, 4-2, 821, 882 
M:ili8dii P i -207 

MaLddeva, L 54, 92 f 93, Si, 117, 
IIS, 1 19, 120, i^T, 1^0. 131, 130, 
158, 170, 179 181, 292,342, 861, 
303; ii. fj 3 102. 101, 120, 125, 
140, 143, 1 11, K7, 179, ISO, 181, 
1S2, 184, 192, 239 
MaU& turt, i. 257 
Mahffcgrlva, i. SOI 
Matilljanjbha, i. 231 
imdirlj vflk, s+ OO 
Ifali^kftla, i. 202 
mahakaEpa, i. 332 
tuaLdkliy* (T), in 230 
MaMmfigbi^ i + 231 
Mab&nada, i. 2 '-7 

MjLJiau^i ikv, i, 259 

mal&tiitvaml, ii, US 
mah&patLma* L 1 7 5, 1 7 6, 24-7 ; it. 
120 

Mahur^btra, i. 2 HO 
mahnrloka, i. 232, 233. 325 
MjiMrriavR, t. 302 
MaLUMla, ii, 10T 
mabA4ffifLku, i. 170 
i. 230 
mAMtan, ii. 1S5 
Mnh&^ayi, i. 301 
mnhfttrfjp ii. 183 
MaMvik.il (?) r i r 257 
MaMvirya+ a. 380 
Maliandra, i, 212, 217, 257, 301 
jMMya, b 215, 30 1) 
matildb urn, i, 173 
Mataha, l 254, 299, 325 
MaliofiLn ijib&ji j, 231 
MaliraltadeHlLii, L 203 
M&htinv, i. 199, 202; ii. 147, 175 
Mitbyl, i„ 206 
Mai»fifca, ii, 191 
niaitm, i. 358 
Makrtyii, i. 63, 833, 397 
Maitreyi, ii, 174 
Maiv&r, i. 202 

jjiak&r.i, i. 201, 219, 220; iL 93 

maktirudij i. M 5b 

mala, ,ii T 20 

MAk, i. 299 

MaUuk (jf), E. 000 

mnlamiksa, ii, 20 


Mara, i. 173, 191, 202, 249, 299 
800, 393, 308 

Malavantika, i r 299 

Malaya, i. 200, 24 7, 257, SOI 
Mfllavapisrvata* 1 248 
MALindyii, l 001 
Media, i. 300 
Malviiri, i. 173^ 

Mnlyaakau, L 173 
Mftlyavanb, i. £48 
iri^n.i, i. 160, 358, 355 
Mfoialiala* i 803 

EJiiiiisa, i, 44 

m in a sa, i. 157, 24 7 h 255, 256, 30G ; 

ii, 148, 245 
MAmButtama, i, 256 
utaudoj. L 216; iL 142 
Mandaga, i. 255 

Mitudagir, i, 203 
51 Hilda link Lir, s. 206 

MamliLkhd, i, 257 ; EL 142 
5I:indakkak«ir, L 317 
ManditvAhinl, i. 2&7 
MAiidavya, i. 15 7 f 300, 302, 303 
Mandeha, i 254 
iiinifigala, b 178+ 21 5, 261 
njfliigalal'Lim, i. 21 3 
maiiguniha {?), ii. 245 
maiiiketu* ii. 243 
Manim&n. i P 302 
Mamttha, i. 157 

til an math i, ii, 127 

Man&java^ i. 3S7 
mfinaurtagu, it. IS 3 
Mann, L 131, 132, 157, 179 r fill, 
.380 ; bis children, 387, 393 ; ii. 
110, 111, 118, 127, 102 
maiiuaby &h i iriUra, f. 328 
rxMim taky jilokij j. 59 
man van tar?., i. 179., £41, £91, 359, 
301, 367, 309, 372 iw., 386 hcq . ; 
their nazittts, 087, 393, 398 ; i5< I* 
2 ? 17, US, 119 
Mara, i. £61 
M&raka., i. 002 
nnArgajja, L. 173 

m1irga£Mia+ i. 217, 218, 35 S, 402+ 
403; ii. 10+ 174; festival g, 1S2, 
193 

jiiarici, i, 163, 242, 390 
MArikila, i. 302 
M&rlgaEa, i t. 8 

MArlULndcyA, i. 54, 133+ £41+ 021, 
340+360, 372, S&G ; ii. 2, 3+ 04, GO 
mdxka^dflya-purSiia, i. 130 
MfrUj 3/201, 300 


4 X 6 


ALBERUNPS INDIA, 


Marne timttsmn, l 501 
Manikutwa, k ;5 Ul! 

Mar lit, Li. 199 
niAsu, r. 170, 359 
niMrdiuim, i. ITS 
mfesha, i. 100, 161, 102, 105, 164 ; 
ii. 206 

Mjuhnlcit (}Jj l, 299 
njil-jupjfcVL-^a, ii. 175 
Mathura* l 302 

Mutlnn^ f. 300,306, 401*400 j ii. 5 
U 139, 140 
matey a, k 13 J r 300 
Mate'll, L 262 

matsyii.pLJt-an-H, i. 130, 10S, 255, 
230, 247. 248, 2:11, 212, 254, 25 5, 
268, 201, 271, 284, 205,' i8ti r -3-^6 ; 
ii. 52, 35, lot, 102, H2, 245 
Man, i. IS? 
mmisaiU, L 133 
mAyfl, i, 344 
MedjtL, k 300 
MwSIiMhrLti* i. 304 
Meglm, i. 231 
Merlin van, i. 602 
MekaLi, L 300, 501 
Mwu, i 213 seq., ±57, 265, 271, £71, 
302, 303 r m, SIS; acting tn 
the Bmldkista 320, 327, 320 ; H. 
32, 96, 129, 112 
moalw, i. 220 
meabMi, i. 357 
Mihrftu, i. 260 
mimMwil, i. 132 
naitia, i. 220 
Mithilft, i. 301 
I'nitliuuH, i r 219, 220 
Mi rut tSUiarutJ* i, 20 H 
Mitra, i. 217, 212, 342 ; ii* 122, 100 
Mitritliyn, ii, 115 
micecliM, i. 10, SO 2 ; iL 137 
modaka, i. 1 30 
moksha* L 70, SO ; ii. L33 

inakBkaiiliiirLiiri, i r 133 
m^m, i. 160 
Mrtmta, \. 240 
Myifia, L 255 

milgalMclJflMft, i r 137; ii, 102 
mpgatfra?* ii. 63 

mpg^lraha, i. -318, 342; ii, 84 r :2l 
tiU-Lguv yOdLui, Li. 91 
lflfithnyamjlfati, L. 254 
i, 230 

mritvfLBiiw^ i. :U4 
Mriwi, i. SO 3 
Mrtkbftp L 231 


Mucukundaj i. 231 
Miniriikaraka (?), i. 290 
MuhrAii (Sindh)* L 204 
mutiArt-i, i. 239, 237, 337, 358 irq m , 

341 E their lutme*, 842, 3 66 ; ii. 

118, 119, 243, 244 
Mnktn, i. 301 

infiJii, i. 213, 203 ; iu 35, 122* 1/9 
MiUwtl i fni a, l 298 
ratilatriWi, if. 225 
MtiILka (!),'k 300 

MOUan (mdOmtOna), i. 21, 116, 153, 

205, 2 1 1 , 240 ? 260, m t 302, 60S. 

317 ; ii r 3 + 8, 0, 54, 145, 143, 184 
Mundlii (!), i. 209 
MufiLtfi-], L 200 
Muuliii, i. 203 
miitti, i. 03, 176, 263 
Muljftj L. 231 
Mum, i. 387 
MdsUika, i. 299 
iltittriij iL 1 73 

XadmA (I), k 387 
N-lbLa^i, ir 494 
iukIl, k 345 
migfl-f f. ITS 

iw^k 91, 178. 247, 267, 344; ii. 

120, 197, 198 
N3gnrhd E .;i, L. 296 
tjftgalokzi, i. 59 
utfsgara, i . 17 ; - 
KftgaTa|inrii p i. 1.56 
X ;igEirnfl/itn v r: tt-'i, i. 257, 296 

K iLL-'jfcE - j >i 1 1 a r 6 189 
Nagarkotj f. 260 ; ik 11 
Xagho, k'SFU 
nagua, 3. 121 
X^giiaparnii, L TjQL 
Xabnafm, "k 93 
X ai j j&l , i. 201 
uairpita, i. 290, 297, 301 
niurpti, ii, 203 
u:ikiigLka,if. 21 5 r 227 
n:usarglkaW:Lp Li. 227 
XMitika (»), i- 300 
uakhfl, i. 179 
uuksbatm, Li. 6 4 
ziakBhatnkinAna, L. 35-, 354 
iiakshatramUlia, i- 210 
Xakutifj I, 403 
m laka, k 300 
ntil, ii- 135 
X 5 1 j k L:];'i h i. SOI 
Nalinl, i. 261, 262 
nalvn, i, 160 


INDEX . 


4J7 


toftmakartnar*, is. 158 
KaTii&vur, i. 203 
mtniyya, I 203 
Vsmmcip i, 231 

Banda, i. I78 t 231, 101: iip 120 
naud&gobi, i. 401 ; Li. 148 
EandanAp i. 257 
taitdaua, tk 127 
NandaimTiLiM* i. 24 J j ii. 98 
randa-pur^a, i. 1 30 
|S"aiIltlaVi«tij tlln „ 1. 8 03 
NaiidikefSrara, i. 93 
TT-wIna, 3, 317 
Jvun, i, 3£7 

K&rada, i. 110 r 131 j 23 7 S 357 ; ii. 

99, I07 p 230 
Eftraka* k 230 
para] oka, 5. 53 
ISar^silhha, I. 385, 380 
narafliiiLlia-piu-sLiirt, a. ISO 
tfAi-fyan*, i. 94,' 106, 118, 129, 132, 
178, in t 202, 210,241, 242,342, 
303, 395 xq. T S98 t 403 ; ii. 127, 
145, 137 

NiiiLEiLiiklia, f, 302 

17 j rmadi, 1. 257, 259 

Mdkya, f. 300, 301 

nrl tli a, ik 103 

Kaumaucl (?), it. 129 

na vn ka 3i da P i. L97 

Itavak ij an (J a: i rat.haUlul, |. 29}, 290 

navan, i.’l7B 

]iav]3i, ii. 197 

netrn, L 1?8 

uid^gha, i. 357 
ni^svta, i. 339 
nikharva, i. 175. 173 
Nib, i. 231, 247, 249; ii. 142 

jSllatnlikba, i. 202 
iiimeslia, i. 335 387, 302 

Nlrabara, ii. 8 
ii it h kali a, i. 207 
Nif^mayat L SS7 
Xirbindliva, i, 257 
Ki risk abb ?t (7), k 394 
Nimiogha, t, 3S7 
Nirmciha, i. 394 

ii ir ri ti, k 358 ; ii* 122 
NLruteuka, i. 8£U 
yi&Vfciira, f. 342 
Niscara, i. 304 
Ni5cii&, i. 259 
i. £10 

Nisi i aba (?i, i. 282 
Niabadha, t. £47, 248, 245, 257,301 ; 
ii, m 
VOL, It 


nifjbkii Libia ;?), i. 231 
NisLpndpifnpa, i. 394 
Novara, i. 391 
nitata^ k 230 
Divra, t. 1 40 
iiiyutatOj i. 170, 177 

nripa, i, 179 
Nriitmhavaoa, i. 392 
yirr, i. 255. 

tirngTO(lba r i. 25fi 

nyarbuda, L 175. 178 
ny&yablilljshit, i. 132 

OM f k 173 
nrUVl f?K Li. 183 
Ocjra, i. 301 

i^aiijl, ib £3 

p&Sa f i- 143, 144, 145, 1 4 7, 143, 
150, 100 
pftdamliHt, ii. 23 
Fad ha, i. 300 

patima, i. 114, HIT, 175, 178 ; il 120 

padmaketu, ii. 244 

PadTiwi&bbip l. 403 

PadniA-Tulvii 0?'}, k 800 

Fadu&r, i. 209 

Pahlavfa T i. 300 

Palin, i. 127 

paitfrmaka f i. 153 

PAjm (0, b 957 

ptfaha, t. 140* 143, 145, 140, US, 
359; ii. 113 

pala, k 102, 103, 104, 105 
pahVia, ii. 131 
Pal ISi nl, 1. 257 
PulLavff, E. 201 
rdli, i. ]01 
Pal-la. i. 303 
PafVc&l^ta, i, 337 
prmcdhi, ii, 10? 

VaiwA^ k 133, 262, 293,299 
paftuft md-t arjis, k 42 
PniiCim.;i.d;i f L 280, 302 
palira-slddbintikA,, i. 153 ; ii. 7 } 51 
190 

PftficaMk/i, t. 325 
paftcatantra + k 159 
panchir, i. 10$ r 250 
pasici', ii. 197 
P^nd.iva, k l?3 
Pdndavu-k&la, it. 1, 5 
raidLi, i. 107. 132, 133, 199, 300, 
330, 493 
Tandy ft, t. 299 
FAnin:, i. 135 

2 P 


ALBERUNl'S INDIA. 


4iS 

F'iliii p-at- a i. 205 

prlnjya, L 

Pan j *y£ v at- ( ?), i. 20 & 

L 106 

|..:lpagr&taa, L £i6 
Par A, I 257, £59 

parAka* ii. 173 

paramapadiij iL 2 
parapadma, i. 17 6 
parArdha* i. 174, 1?.", 333 
paraa-dhaka-lp*, i. 833 
Pat-Asara, i, 4 4, 63, 107, 131. 157, 
359, 383, 391, 397; ii. &6 S £03. 
£85 

ILlrasava, i. 30 £ 

Piirasurimaj i. 380 

paia£y;idba T ji, 203 

P ft rata, i. 802 
parAvasu, ij. 123 
Pare* yura, t„ 158 
paridL&Tm, ii. 128 
Pi^iksli?, i. 77, 113 
jMtriYtent-iL,. sl. 125 
PArijatra, i. 247 t 257 f 259, 300 
P. i rjn i va, j. £17, 394 
Paru 2^L, i. 25 7 r 250 
[ulrtiaiva, ;. 42 j si. 127 
jwtinn, i. 220 

pnrviT> ? L 1S£ ; iL 115 mg , , 119.. 191 
Par vAn , i. 259 

parrat^L 140, 141 T 143, H5, 146 r 
17^ ; ii. 101, 199 
ParvatamflriT, i. 262 

piTTAtl (?}, it, 181 
pysoima, i, 290 
pAab&nabkllmi, i. 230 
PuAupAia, i. 308 
p&ta, ii. 207 

f.atila, ]. 59, 230. 307 ; iL 140 
P&tajiputra, L 200 
pita Lj ala, i, 8 

PaUftjali, I. 27, 55 50, 68-70, 76, 
60, SI, B2, S7, 03 r 132, 189, 232, 
£34, 285, £30, £38, 248 
Pat3 l^v Lira, i. 299 
pstfti, i. 407 
pattriu, i r 173 
Paidi^ i. 153, 268 

r'ltLipilL-.i, j. 301 
PauiiiTa, L 803 

paushx\ L 21 7, 218, 358, 403; ii. 

174, 177; festival^ 183, 193 
pay aka, i, 178 
pavana f L 178 
FAvani, i, 261, 262 
pavitra, iL 130 


FjtyusliitLj i H 257 

PliATguIUj i. 302 

pliAlguna, L 217, 21 8 f 358, 403 ; ii. 

174 ; festival k, 1S3, 193 
PhamkAra* i. 301 
Pbenagiri, 3. 302 
pibum.-iait. (?), iL 129 
pin da, it. *04 
FindAraka., it, 120 
Piagata, i, 137 ; ii. 128 
Pingalaka, i. 303 
Pinjaur, I. 2 05 
PipyaSa, i. 257 
Pat-nvamO), L 153 
Pi^bika {?), i. 257 
pisika, i r 89, 90, 92, 247 ; ii, 236 
Pita., i. £55 
plfeabbftmij i. £30 
pit&Tnitba, i. 373, 361 
pifcanda {'i), iL 142 
pitaran, i, 89, 93, 232. 248, 330 t 357; 

ii. 121, 1 28 r 13:j 
pit.fi, i, 812 

pitjiioka,. r. 233, 236, 238 ; it* 233 
pitfinAdiaboratrji, i 328 

pitrjpakaLa, ii, ISO 

pitrya, i. 358 
Pirani, t. 394 
pkkslta, i. 235 
plava, ii. 128 
ptayaitga, ji. 1£8 

Pcijjibaua (’}, i. 300 
pmbtiavAj ii. 127 

Prarlytamita, i. H8 r 1 58 t 398 

Pn%jyott&ha f L 29 9j 301 
prabara, i. 337 
PnLliLadit, i 365 

praj&pati, i. 89, 92, 94.159, £91,357 
398; ii, 102, L2p 125, 127, 238 
prakpti, L 41 
prarn&na, i. 353 
pram Adi n ,, ii. 123 
praaiaathan^ ii. 1 27 
pramoda. 'ii. 1 Li 7 
Piamukha (?), i. 387 
prana, L £77, 334 xtq*, 337, 339, 361, 
394 

PraiSast&dri, i. 302 

pray 1 1 a-gfitL li rltn alt H (1), j, 153 

praetlia, i. 102 f 103* 164, 165 
praytiiAaia. a. 133 
pmtbamft> i. 295 
Pratliang* ( I), i £99 
Fratimaaajajs, i. 394 
Fratragira l £09 
PtayAga. L 200; ii, 170 241 


INDEX. 


419 


prfry tin, l. 355 
pr&yuta, i. 175, 170, 177 
preta, i. 00 
Fiisbaki^ I, 262 
pribim4 t i 40? 
r»ri tliiTSj i. 1238 
Witbrs, 5- 29£, 304 
JViihudalasv&Lniii, i. 158 
PfitlmsTdmiii, 1. 316 
Fnyavrata, l 2 U,m 
PraAbthapada, ii. 1 £7 
puLii (i). ii 180 
pftiiayal i'h 

F aiding* ( -)j i. £99 
PuJaha, i 390 
Falaatya, i. 300 
Fulindra^ i. 300 

Pul ha, i. 163, 154, 108, 169 t 224, 
206, 275, 276, 278,312, 313, 310, 
335, 339 r 370, 374, 37 6, 37 O t 377 ; 
il 4, 18, 19,21, 31,41, 42, 58, 67, 
09. 70, 72, 74, 91, 187, 190 T 102, 
208 

Pulj^siddliduta, L 153, 177, 275, 
333 ; ii. 31 
FOkala, h 3G£ 

Ankara, iL 147 
Puieya, i. 300 
Psiliuda, 1 £62 

tJ l s uar vasit, i. £1 8 , ii. 6 6, 8 4j 121, 

170, 130 

Pu&cak(?)i 1. 157, 300, 337 
PvLTijftilri, i. 308 
pianyakdlft, ii. 187, 191, 192 
pur^jjas, i. 92 ; ii h 136 
lAu-fav± t i. 130, 233. 238, 204* 273, 
£83; ii HO, 113 
PrLratKUra, 3. 8F!7, 397 
pOravtaku, ii. 193 
Farlba, i. 301 
Fiin>% i 262 

intmitM. i. 3-18 ; ii. 185, 197 
purohita, if. 132 

Pimh&Ynr ( Rephavar ), i. 20 0 r £59 a 817 
pLtrehOr {PeihaviLr ?>, L 338 
Puru, i. 387 
puruflk^ i„ 31, 40, 321 
3.1 nr LLsilicL, i. 324, 332, 333, 3 SO, 351, 
300, 386; ii.113 
Ftmjjjhjlda, i. 300 
purusMkor&tra, i. 332 

Purusbaparvata, i. 2*18 
PurutLivar (i\ PLUtah&YAjr), Ei, 1] 

pHiY-ii, 1. 290 

pOrvaUj ild rapad^ i. £13, 210 , :b 

85, 122 


Pbrvndt^Fi, i, 173 

pOs'vappAlguul, i 21 -Sj 201 ; il 85, 
321, 128 

pfirvAnbadkl, L 218, 291 ; ii. 85, 

122 , 

pf13.i1 an, i. 2l7, 342, 358 { il 122 
pufcbfHnli] a (7), 1 131 
Pu^bkalft, i. 254 
Fu&bkal&rati, L 302 
p-.i^iW, i. 235, 251, 261 j ii. 120 
p'.i abtarad vipAj i. £35, £55, £50, £84, 
£85 

Bu(5bpajit3 h i, 257 

pusliyA, i. 219, £91 ; ii. SO-, 84* 1 21 

pufcbi, ir 171 

piiyattanu (?) il 1 S4 

Rada (?}, i. £31 
lUliali, b £61 
I'abLi, i P £96 ; ii. £34 
r^bucakra, i. 292 
rAkuur&karaiia (J), L 157 
HU, iL 31 
ruibhya (?}, i. 387 
raiTafca, i 837 
Raivataka, 1, 302 
raja, i. 102 
rdpwiUarrna, r. 133 
PijagiT], i r £05., £08 
liapmya, i 802 
raj arabi, i r 03 
rajuss, }, 40, 399 
Raj-nirl, i. £0£ 

Edjilvarij L 208 

l 39, 90, 91, 92, 231, 247, 
248, 262, ; it. 3, 129 
raktii.. i. £15 
laktabbfinst, i_ £30 
rakt^kaba (?}, ii 128 
rakt&mtda, i. 190 

Hama, i. 117, 121, 166, 209, 2 S3, 

306 + 307, 310, 37£ f 380, 357 i ii 
3, 137 

llamadi (S) y j r 257 
lidmilyanu., i + 307, 310 j il, 3 
Eamesbaf (?}* i. £09 
IUinsher (?) a i. 209 
Hamyaka, i, 249 
rand bra, u 178 
IbmkjL, i. 192 
rasa, i r 42, 178, 188 
rascals, i. £30 

rs3Aya.11 a, i. 80, 188, 19I j 196 
rAsJiyaiia-totiii, L 156 

RAsbtra, i. 301, 303 
raSmi, 5. 178 


420 


ALBERUNPS INDIA. 


rnAmiketti ('?) r iL 242 
rath a, e. 407, 40S 
riltrl, i. 359 
l isuejfftj L 387 

raudra, i. 344, 35 S ; ii. 12S + 241 
ranrfm, f. 60 

Havana, L 306, 307, 3F0 ; ii. 3 
Eitvana&ras, i. 170 
rm, L £15, 216, £1 " T 342 
mvicaadra, i 17S 

Rebha (1), i. 387 

rsjjiit i+ 162 

Kt^antflj 5, 139 

revati, L 21-9, Sill, 342, 809 j ir. 6fi, 
SO, 86, 122. 177, 130 

rie, L 123 

k ; .gvedfl, i. 127, 128 
Kihainjtix* i. 205 

Rikslin., L 257 
itm&jyeBlitlia (?}, I. 393 
i.liftb&bfri, i. m iL 101 
liihi, L 93, 106, 130, 237* 2 39, 241, 
404; iL 96, 103 
Kin Lika* L 257 
Kisbika, i. 301 
JiEghyamiika, L 301 
^ttaliynsiringB, L 304 
Ritadh&umn, i. 337 
piu (I), j. 178, 35 7 r 359 ; ii. Ilfi 

Its L LikllLy a, i, 257 
rodba, n 60 
rwllLrikriiS iL 123 
rodhini, i + 213 

rob i ill, i 213 344, 401 ; Ii.66,84, 96, 
07.09, 100, 102,121, 175,176. 177 
Rohttftkft, i. 303, 316 
Rom aka, i. 207, 303 
ItiUnaki’^iddhanta, l. 153 
rtiilhLra, L Cl 
mijhirandha, L 61 
Ernies 5, 94, 170. 34 2 f 3 62, 303 j iL 
120, 121, 140 
rudraputra, i. 337 
Tu km ak uba {?!, it, 129 

Eum t L 208, 272 
Eumana ft), i 299 
Kli[ijlmanda3a. r i, 262 
rupa, l. £% 140, 173 
rftpa-pafim (?), ii. 170 
ILlipaku, !■ 3 CM!) 

Rfimaft (>), L 2G1 
Etirclhwal/dbu (J) r i 304 
ruvu h ]. 161, 162 

S a bat! (?), L 261 
iabda, I. 42 


aabl i :1 - par van , i. 133 
Sadasiva, i. 301, 362, 303 
Saddam (1}, L 257 
sftdhftraim, iL 128 
s%ara, L 173 

Sugary i. 20; ii. 143, 176, 160 
fcfl^artJias i i, 183 
eahadeva, L 403 
SsdinrijA, f. 202 
aabflSjraTr]. i. 175, 177 
Babaantriisu, i. 170 
Sabftwi (?), ii- 190 
SoluBhnn, L 304 

Saby a,’i. 247, 257 
^.lisaSnlApati, ii. 125 
SaiEodft, ii. 143 
sain dliavii, i. 173, 261 
S-iintra, i. 153 
Sairlklrna {?), I, 301 
S.iirindba, i. 303 
Saka f l 300, 302 5 Li. 5, 6,. 8 
£Afea, L 23 a 

adkadviDa, i. 235, 252, 253 
sLikakiila, i. 366, 390. 3ol, 392 ; iL 
0, 7, 0, 28, 123, 129* 188* 190 
«akatn t L 135 

f^k.i{;Vyrm:i p i. 135 

axki'ii, L 953 ; iL 122 
Safer&nala, is. 128 

^kti P L US, UO, 363 

aakiiui, iL 107 f 108, 200 

dak vara, i. 241 

dal Aka* i. 239 

Salila. i. 261 

Salkot, i 317 

^luimlL L 295 

B^lmalidvlpa, i. 235, 254 

aaEva, i, 209 

Sal van! (l) t L 300 

dalya, i. 133 

h;arna p L 371 

Sataidvabatin, L 1 36 

s&man, L 129 

Samanta, ii, 13 

Samatata, r. 301 

ebmav&dji, L 127, 120, 396 

Samara { Tj, L 336, 337 ; ii- IfiS 

Sittiiba, i. Ilfi 

Gamba-purdfla, i. 130 

Sambliapura, i. 203 

SimbhapuvuydtriL ii. 134 

aariidhi, i. 128, 334, 306, 369, 372; 

iL 2, 17 t 110, 133, 225, 226, 244 
muM-askmua, i. 364 
Baiiidbj udaya, f. 361 
Bflitidlijarbaa* i. 372, 373 


INDEX. 


421 


•Binliitl 5. 157, 16", 298, 299, 320, 
889, m ■ ii. 86, 86, m, 93, 107 T 
110, 111, 115. 123, 128, 145, 19£, 
235 

KiUit'i', n f 141 
^uinkara, ii, 147 
Sjuiik^rshana, i. 393 
^dshkhvaj i. E ; quoted, { h 30, 45, 62, 
64, 75, 81, S3, £9, 22, 132 
GuriikrantE, i. 341 ; ii, 188, 189^ 100, 
ISO 

eamu&ra (?), i. 295 
HiiiTimdra, i. 175, 178 
.Saiim buka, i + 2tfv 
Saikvatla, i. 131 ; ii, 244 
isaihvnTtika, ii. 101 
SaihviLtaara, i, 24-2; ii. 3, 9, 123, 
125, 129 

Sarny amainipura, k 271 
KLkriiLi-sc&r^ i, 215 
danHi&siiaMira, i, £13 
Sanaka, i. 325 
feanatica, i. 325 
SimwmLiiiatbn;, i„ 325 
eandarii^aka, i. 61 
Sand An, i. £09 
Mndl {?}, ii. 142 
S aiigahi U i tskbal a ?), L 1 5 8 

SLingavatita (?), L 261 
aanglia* i. 40 
Sankara, i. 94 

fctiUia, i. 114, 131, 301, 333 ; il 
. 120 

^fttkiiikaba, i. 231 
m\u, a r 186, 175, 176 
Siuikukarna, 1. 231 
&tnkn pallia, i, £62 
ndlita (?), ii, 1H8 
fjfiutahaya, i 337 
Sdntans], t. 107 
a. 183, 33/ 

SSntika, a. 302 
sante, i. 358 

aaptiip i. 1?8 
saptarshaya,.^ 5. 389 
4aru ? i r 173 
e&ra, t. 113 
4ambUa, i. 203 
Barad, l. 357 ; Sl. OS 
sfiradit, i. 117. 303 
Baradbdiia, i. 302 
^djaaifciiciuLljij, ii, 190 
Sdragyata* i. 158, 300, 398 

SarrmVrtt.5, ii„ 99, ] 42 

e&rifrall, i. 158 
i-iarayu, i. 259 ; ii. 143 


Saraynsatt (f), ii 143 
sarkara, i. 230 

sq)3, ji. 1 £11 
e&rpa, i. 353 
Sarpls?, ii. 121 
■rarpisi i. 235 

Sarauti i, 267, 261, 405 j ii, 105, 
142 

Sj-na, i. 259, 261 
SbirrajjJkflHuj ii + 1 27 
Eorvajit, ii. 127 
sarTari (?), ii. 128 
SirvistrtLp, i 387 

£arjiti, i. 387 
easUlakah&na* ii. 102 
^a^ideva, i, 135 
Sa^LdevaYjrifcti, i. 335 
i. 178 ; ii. 115 
fiaafcm, ii. 241 
sat, ii. 19? 

KatHlihishaj, j r 218 ; IL 85, 122 

^itadyumtisL, i, 387 

pataka* i F 303 

Satakratu, i. 393 

4atixm, i, 175 

S;ttanika, i. 77 

tiatarudro, i r £59 

Batejbnalia, i. 231 

Satfrtapa, L 131 

SitiiikVSliaflA, j. 133 

aatlu, ii. 197 
sattra, i. 344 
iutva, S+40 

Satya. i. 137, 304, 309 
Satvaiia, i. 385 
aatyaluka, i. £32, 233, 23 S 
SauiLka, i. 301 

SaimivM f L 80, 215, 295, 344, 358 J 
ii. 123 

Saunaks, 77, 113, 126, 380; ii. 145 

fift-uptita, i. 133 

fcuira, i. 215 

paurahargana, ir, 27 

nan rati] flu ii, L 853, 354 

Sauvlra, i. 298, 300, 302 

Sdva r i. £59 

Zavala, i 00 

Eavaaia, i 394 

►d-Tana., i. 328 ; iL £-1 

t a v . :li id 1 1 . rug an a, ii. 2? 

eftyaiiaindna, i. 353 
Sa-vafijulfl, i. 257 
Savara (?), L 300, 301 
E^Tarni, i. 387 
eavitd ? ii. 121 

myitfi, L 216, 217, 398 ; ii, 121 


ALBBRUNDS INDIA. 


42 Z 

Hiyak&j i h 17S 

fcoranl ( L)j i. 394 
KH-tt&firmklifij F. 407 
i H 2 3 3 

iSflsMkliyft, i, 237 
Seta handle, i 209, 307 
SeitiK i* 2D9 
Bbadiy;i, ii. 215, 227 
Stiakrun& (1), i. 257 
Sluuntl&n, l 206 
SharrAr, i. 200 
Sbarvat, f. 259 
jsb^iab ty*d>dsi, ilm 123, 124, 120 

ahatf i, ITS [ Si. 177 
Sbfttatdrir (SaLlej), r. 259, 260 
filiatpafiid^Lk^L., L 1 5 8 

BKnttnmiDa (1), i. 300 
s] Jidda { '} r Li. 30 
Staiiliihat, s, 201 
fiSjlrrf.lltir.ii.Fl.n, i. 205 
Shmaliina (?)+ i. 250 
Fiibi (?), l 165 
Hibjka, i. 301 
Sil’irS, r. 301 

HjdtlSm, i ss, 102, 20S, 217 
BSddkainihfski, i. 173 
BiddliStnta, i. 153, 155 : «f Pul^n, 
224, 265,333, 374 ; is. 13 
Siddtiipiiro, S. 267, 263. 303, 304 
fciddh&rt3i@, ir. 1 28 
Sikhi, i, 262, 3S7 
matiLi-i, i. 230 
s i m a m t o n uay an affi , lb 150 
fiithbitj i, 220 

Simkaht, i 301 
Snhbaladvipr*, i. 233 
SMihSU (rK .ii* 111 
Sindli, i. 173, m 206, 2 50, 261 r 
270, 203, 300, 302, 31D, 337 ; ii. 
5, S, 15, 4.3, 104, 129, 132 
SSodhtitfilgHi ft, i 260 
SingaJdtb, i 209 
Shii, b 257 
£4]jr&, l 250 
Hiiy-XOh i. 257 
fifcbyrij Eh 127 
gUbyaliitfLvt-Itfci, c. 135 

wiaira, i. 357 

SStfumim, i, 231, 2+1, 242 
(5i.4utifl.ln, L KiS, 310, SU 
sita, i. 21 5 \ it, 230 
Sit a, i. 249 
Siti, l 261 
4Ei-rl, i. 173 
mtaclJdhit], i- 215 
^itakula, 5. 357 


HjLilJbsiii i. m, 215, 216 
f5i ta.m ayukhamiliii, n. 125 
mtflraHrrsi, S. 215 

Ediva, i, 13], 342, S6 % 363 ; u. 328 

yivapanra, i. 261 

^Lvaratn, ii, IR4 

Skanda, L 13 3, lftl j J5. 140 

skauda-puriina, i. 130 

tk.imiba, a srictre r in 144 

atii, t m 

a oka, i. 127, 132, 137, 147 
Sm.wudhor.i. i, 301 
SEUriti, i„ 133, 352, 372, 373, 3? 4, 
386 ; ii. 110, 111 
Srjehftj i. 254 
sokakfLt, ii. 123 

Eoma, i. 215, 2t6j 252, 253, 342 ; iL 
3 0:3, 123 

Bomab&ra, t. 213 
Somadattu T i. 230 
snmagrahn,. u 2 16 
SoinaDflanta w, ii. 97 
SolHaniUlta, i. 117. 163. 165, 130, 
205, 208: 26 1 T 357, m ; ib 9, 
103 3 3 04r„ 105. 176 
Boma-parftaa, r. ISO 
Somafiudijua, i, 303 
^ona, .i. 257 
dosha n t, i. 314 
S-parsa, j, 42 
apklita, ii. 105 
spliut&yn, Si. 223 
Hn.ivana, i 218 ; is, 35, 00, 122 
SrfivAna, i. 211, 21 7, 218, 358, 403 ; 
ii. 93, 173, 170; festival*, 179, 
193 

Hrs, s, ns, no ; ii 6, 199 

Wrldkara, i. 403 
l^ri Harsh Hj. ii, 5 

^Llrnnkbaij, ii, 127 

SrtiLg’kiri, L 249 

SiiAgavant, S. 213 

^ripifa, I, 164, 240 

ij-iparrata, i. 24 S 

.Si j-Hfcieri^j, i. 153j 266,. 376 ' f ii. Ill 

Kiajisi, i. 257 

arOcfhava (»), i. 153, 334, 336. 344, 
861.; ii 6j 120 t 192, 201-203 
s^massL {?), i. 33 7 
Scambha, i. 394 
athdnabala, ii. 225 
StrjriVfT^ 5, ^02 
SuhAliUp i. 39 i 
SObAra, i. 209 
liubha, S. 344 
4ubbnkri(, St. 128 


INDEX. 


4*3 


finbb&mij Si, 12" 

Suer, b 3S7 t 394 
SuddliodunEi, i. 380 
Sudh Arm Atman (?j> i, 38 7 
Sudivya (?)„ i H 387 
dtidra, i. 101, 125, £47, 302; ii. 8, 
95, 08, 13$> 150, 13£, 155> 157, 
153, 170, 191 
Sngrtva, i. 158 
Snhina, j. 300 i ii, 101 
Snk a{?), IL 120 
Sukbft, i. £71 
Sitkb&pum, i, £71 
ii 127 

iukJabhiiEni, i, £30 
duklapakaba, f. 850 
Snk ra, l 132, BIS, 358, 304 j ii. 

121, 199 
lukrab&ra, i. £13 
SukrjUj L £02 
Sukriti, i. 394 
SukahetTji, i. 387, 394 
Sukti, i, 257 
JSukfcib&m (1), L 247 
Siittimatl, i. 2a7 
Sulrtria, 5. 261 
itulu, t. 119, 2 1 0 
Siiladaata, i. 231 
Sulifca, f. 300, 302 
SutiJiV'ii, i. 23 1_ 

Suma na^j l. 255 
SnmanttSj b 127 
SijinedLu*, L 394 
Snnii&m, i. 200 
^Inyftj L 1 78 
SuprayogA, b £57 
Bin 1 A, i. £35 
Surksa, h 25“ 
suirakebaa, L £31 
Huraaena/ i. 299, 300, 302 
SurAshtra, i, 300 
J3un?jj'», ii. 127 
eor&tiu, i. £51 
stlri, i. £17 
adrpa, i. 1C 3 
SurpakarRa, i. 300 
^tlrpakArata, i. 300 
i, 179, 215 
SuryAdri, i. 301 
sArynputra, i. £15 
SOiy.i-siddhaiit!!-, b 153 

Siiflaifiljliftvya, j. 887 

Sud&uti, I. 387 

^i.3FFhtni[jj i. 254 
Bfitukn, E., 355 

b-.MAL, l. £30 


aut&la, i r 230 
SutapiB, l. 394 
Sutsya, i. 394 
stora, i. 158 

BLivarna^ i. 160, 161, 162, 163 r 164 
Suvarnabbilmi, f. 303 
ynvarnarlvipa, 2]0 ; li. 10S 
&U van lay an i a, 1, 230 
avAdudatn, ] r £85 

Sv Lmiikhn , i, 302 
&y£pa.da, E. 231 
Svaigabliimi, E. £02 
aTargAtadjima. i r 133 
avas'ioba, i 45, £32, 233, 397 
svArocisba, i. 387 
svftrociya, L 38 7 
S VABtikaj^yn , i. 231 
Svat. ii. 182 

sTfttj, L 218, 391 ; ii. 85, 99, 100, 131 

SvAyEm5bJj.fi, in S0 3 

FvayambhoYa, i. £41, 3 8 7 

Sveta, i, £13 ; ii. 1-3 2 

Hvetakety, ii, 242 

Sy&en&kfl, b 303 

Sy;lvalala {V h Li. 208 

TAL'iTE.A, ii 107, 199 
TAkeshar, L 208 : il 8 
Takskaka, i. 231/247 ; iU 120 
TnkaliLLsr In, i 302 
tala, L 290 
t5l:. T i. 167, £30 
TAUhalaj J h 30£ 
talata, 1, 133 
Tfinikniti {'). i. 302 
TftEalAna (1) a i. 300 
T Alikata, 1. 80 1 
Tania] ipta, L 2 >2 
TAinaU|>tikAi b SOI 
Tfimdra* l £0£ : 300 
fcatiiaSp i. 40, £37, 399 
Tama&A, L 2 d 7 
t^maaa, i. 300 
iflmaiviknukH, ii. £34, 238 
fcAmblru, i, 220 
T&mrA, i. £59 
Tdciuiiliptika, i. 299 
TdtorApaiiuij in SOI 
Tdmravarna, i. £57. £96 
Tina, b -08, 205, £09, 29 S 
tanduiij l, £04 

TAneikar, b 117, 109, 205, 300, 3 OS, 
310, 3d 7 ; ii. 103, 145, 147 ' 

T;l ngiLll: i „ i r 303 
TatikaiVn , i. 301 
tantra, i. 135, 156 


4-4 


ALBERUNPS INDIA. 


TaUTit [?), l 201 
tapana, i, 1?S 
T^paararaipa, i. 301 
T/Lpsavin, i. 384 
Tfipi , L 25? 

T&jxxlbjdfci, i. 39 1 
tapotaka, j. 2 32 
Tapcmovlrti, i 304 
Taporati, i. 804 

tAptakutiibbAf i. 60 

T»r:i t1) a i. 303 j ii. 64 
Tfi.ra.kHkB3ja ? L £31 
tarana, if. 64 
t&rana, ir 127 
t&ri, i- 171 

tArkshya-pur&na, i 130 
TarojintapfiK iL 1 14 

Turn, i. 201 

TwflLpauafJ), t 800 

TaKkarij ii. 238 
tittva, i. 44, 178 
Tattvad arnica -{!), i 304 
taiiksiL i kitj i, 220 
Taval tester, L 2 OS 
Tharpura iTl, i. 300 
tholjat [Sindbij, i. 102 
Tiauri, L £02 
titan i- {ty-yfttri* i. 158 
Tillius i. 800 
Tilvafc, i. 201 
TimingijMana (?), i. 301 

tlrvii^lokfi, i. 50 

Tisliya, i. £54 p 3? 2, 380 
tithi, i. 178 ; ii. 191, 14)5, £01- 
'DM, i. 207 
tola, i. 100, 162 
trahagattata {f') ? ii. 102 
trail i, trot) 5, ii. 197 

Tra.ipu.ra t i 300 
tranjdi, iL 182 
tiaK&nlya, i, 344 
tray am, i, 178 
TnyyArwiia, i. 308 
trcHta, L 372 

tretfiyuga, i, 258, 37 3, 39 7 t SOS 
186 

TriUL&rnaii, i. 303 
TridivA, i. 257, 2ti2 
Trigarta, i. 300, 302 
triguna (1)^ i, 178 
t rtimrk &fcha (?) p ii d 101 
tribaspufea {?), iL 10 1 
trEjagat, i. 173 

tr i k j’tla, i r 1 T S 

trikatu, 5. 178 
Trikiita, i. 248 


TrilooLtiap&la, ii. 13, 14 
Trinetra, i. 303 
triri iaiii4*.fea, ii. 223 
Tripavl i. 25? 

TripnraUitika, i- £48 

Trlpurt, t, 301 

Trka-a, L 257 
Trisira, i. 231 
Triyikrrtm;^ 5, 403 
TnYflsha* j. 308 
tiiya, ii. 10? 

trntl, i. 335 scq. } 337, 302, 333 
TukkiLr-a, s, 261, 302 
tuti, i. 165, £19, 220 
tilled], i. 357 
Timibavancij i. 301 
Tumbura, i. 300 
TungabliSMlr A., h £57 
Tiiragfraana, L 302 
T&rftu, i. 203 

Tvashtri, i. 217, 342, 353; ii. 117, 
121, 127 

t daka, i. 130 
Ud ay agin, i r 301 
t rdliiiira, U 300 
UiIdeLika, i. 800 
ndruyaga, i P 220 
Udunpur, ip 1?3 
udvateara, ii. 1£5 
Udyftrintuanliin, i, 262 
udyoga, L 133 
Ograbhilti, i. 135 

Ujain t i. 182, 202, 250, 2£B ( 301, 
304, 80S, 811, 813, 316 
Bjjjayint, Ii. 241 

i. 18? 

U made vj* i 54 
CmmaliiAra, L 200 
On a, ii. £1 

Uiiar&tra, L 354 ; ii. 21 ; muYfrisal r>r 
partial, 2-3, £5, 34, 37, 186, 187, 
10£ 

lift jura [l) t 5. £31 
f" pak ai i:l, i. 202 
uparJ f i 200 

U paranga, i. 301 
upavdsa, ii. 172 
Uraga, L 262 
UrdbabMiau, i. £00 
plvHkYafcarna, L 301 
Crdvakiiju, 5. 231 
tJrja, L 804 
Ui ur, i. 887 
urvarA, i. 173 
uganaa, L 77 > 131, 308 


INDEX, 


425 


tshk&rA* k 207 
LisUtiakiUa, L 357 

ETahtratarna, i. 262 
Uakalri, i, 301 

i. 88? 

Utkaliij i. 300 

ntkjilijj ir IJ15 

l 157* 153, 298, 334, 336, 
337, 361, 3-37 
Utpjtla vini l*) f i. 257 
utaarpinl, L 371 
tlttami; L 308 
UttainaujaLBi, i, 337 
Uttaujarria, L 300 
UttlnapMa* i. 211, 24 2 
uttara, i. 200 

ntiaj:abijMrAj.isd^ L 213* 342 ; ii. 
85, 36, 122; 127 

utt.arakbamla k h Ady aku, L 156; ir. 

87, 00, SI 
■Lt.-a.rakOla, i. 957 
Uttarakurava, i. 302 
ril.iiiialnamsH, ji. 142 
Uttartmarmada, i. 900 
uttaraphalguni, i. 218; ii. 54, 121 
L. 218; ii. 3D, 122 
nctas-djana, L 350, 357 ; ii. 100 
U vary all ar [?), i. 200 

VADAViLMUKHA,i200,267, 200, 272 ? 

278, 270, SO 2, 307 r 327 ; ii. 201 
Y&tkvUn&la, ii, 1 04 
Vadha, i. 300 
Vadbra, ii, 101 

Tali Sub l 407 
Valiipra, i. 2O0 

Viuiibi^:), L noo 

Yaliiiijv&Lr, i. 61 
Vaidarblsa, i 300 
Vaid^a, i. 300 
viidhrita, iL 204, 206, 208 
VftfdLfca, i. 300 
Vaidtirva, i, 301 
Yaiiiud, I, 206, 250, 317 
Vainyil, i. 257 
YjtijraliUia <.?), L 844 
Tn.isLik.lEL, i + 217s 218, 358. 103 ; ii. 
123, 173 : festival*, 170, 182, 136, 
103 

vaiabnava, 1 . 357 
Yjr.ishnavi, l 120 
vaidvAnAra, t. 178 
Yaisiniiipayaua, i. 127 
vaisya, i. 101* 125, 2J7..302 ; ii. 9D* 
S3, 196, l. r ,D, ID 7, 170, 1D1 
vaitaranl, L 01, 257 


Yftivasvttta, i. 27 t, 357 

Vijuiaravas, L 3 OS 

TS]ra p L 110. 230. 241, 321* 300, 
360 ; ii r £, 3, 65, 203 
Yajralralmahatyji, ii. 102 
VAka* i. 200 
v&k ivl ? i. 215 ; li, 101 
VAEikhilya., L SOD 
Vallabha, i. 192, 103, 200 ; ii, 5, 0 
VailftUhlj i- 102; ii. 3 
Yfllmtki, l SOS ; ii. S 
Vamaoa, i. 120, 131, 300, 403 
v ilman a-purApa, i. 130 
Vaiii&Y&ia, L 2D 7 
VAmica (!), i. 304 
v&tis, i. 178, 300 
Yauarajya, 1 303 
Yanaugia, L 302 
Va.taviH i. 301 
VamLvftaikfl, i r 200 
Vaiigsu i 301 
Y'aigeya, i, 200 
Vi ti upad&vGii. ca* i 4 337 
Vaprivan, i. 30 S 

Va[i iial lth.'l t, i, 304 
var (I), ii. 10 
vAra* i. 355 
Vnniha, i. 131 

YarDliamihira, i. 23, 54 t 117-121, 
153, 157, 1 56, 162, 104, 106, 167, 
210 , 220 , 200 , 265 , 272 , 276 , 2 S 7 , 
200, 300 9eq. f 320, 848* 36 9 t 301, 
302; ii. 7, 51, 06, 70, 86* 87, 5S> 
80, 02, 05, 103, 10" 113,125, 

116, 118, 123. 145, 100, 2QS, 235, 
230, 210 

virab^-puvrlTirij i. 130 

Vdi-AM, 5. 180 
Vsraka, i. 304 
Yard ha Lei An h * l SOI 
varga, i. 297, 29 6 
YAricara* 1 . 301 

Varlifc, j. 1O0 
varfelfl, i„ 309 

varslakAla* 1 . 211, 357 ; ii. 04 
Vavima, L. 21 7, 242, 27 1 r 292, 3 12* 
35^ 872 ; ii. 02, 115, 122 
varunaniaiitra, if. 07 
Varvara* i„ 2(>1 
Vasa, ii. 241 
visa ra, ir. 113 
v.Lfiauta, L. 357 ; ii, 170 
VasiLti, i. 302 
VasaTajBj ii. 122 

Vii.4ftijtba, U U5 t 131,225, 239, 26S* 
260, 340, 300, 304,338 ; ii.Ofl,. 00 


436 


ALBERUNrs INDIA 


TfisiBh+iba-ai-tlfliiJAnt^ L 153 
vasts, S' 17 S, 291, 34 2 r 394 
V^idtvn, i. £9, 52, 104, 107, 12* 
183, 165 p 193, 218 T 254, 340,341, 
352, 362, 3S7, 398, 400 w?. p 401 
&?.?., 403 ; ii. 105, 137, I8S a 147, 
1 48, 175 p 176, 17", 378, ISO, lSl f 
182 

V-^uti, J. 231, 2*7 ; ii. 120 
V&fnkra, i, 126 

VaiitatniJi, b 302 

vala, Li. 170 
VatH, f. 299, 300, 301 
vlym, F. 200, 297. 302 j ii. 202 
Yfiyavatniuntm, si. 97 
Yilyu, i. 202 ; iL 00, 121 
viyiL-pusMTia, 3, 41, 130* 103, 194 K 
230, 23l‘ 232, 234, 239, 2*1,2-18, 
251, 257, 253, 271, 237. 295,206, 
290 **. t 337 ; EL fi-2, 33, 65, L42, 
245 

veda, i. 20,31, 104, 125, 131, 132, 
17S, 3*8 t 803, 396, 393 ; iL 21, 
22,32, 95, M, 110, 1 11, 131,136, 
139, 140, 152, 170 
V&Htabahn, b 894 
Veda«Tifcnti, j. 26 7> 259 
Yedaarl, i. 30*1 
Vfdavat-5, h 257 
v^ga, i. 3-14 
Yeni, L 301 
Venavyfiflia, i. 393 
Yenumatl, L £59. 392 
Yenv&, i. 257 
Vibhip L 271 
vibbava, sL 127 
VibbivAripi^ra, i. 271 
VicEtra, L 867 
1 idarbha, i. 801 
f. 259 

Yidb atrip b 217- 233 
Vi<m i, 257, 250 
vi'.Iy5iihar,a, i 91, 262 ; ii. 92 
vkljul, i. 42 
VldyiijjibTa, i. 231 
vij^batika, i. 334 
Ytjnya r ii, 127 

VijayaisMLdln, i. 156, 343 • it. 49, 90 
Viknca^ ii. 237 
v fc&rir?, EF. "128 
vikransft, ii. 127 r 128 

ViknuHiditya, i. ISO ; ii. 5, 6, J ? 129 

ii. 127 

vihiiftbirb ib 198 
Ymialabudflbi, i. 158 
vbi^dT, i. 357 


Viuatfij i. £52, £53 
Vmaynka, i. 120, 134 
Ybdliy*, 1 1U7> 218, 257, 202, 301 ; 
iL 02 

VfudbyamiYi. i. 300 
Yipa^cit,, b 3S7 
YMij, r. £41 
VLTaj.i^ T i. 367, 30 l 
Yihvriamsi, F. 363, 352 
VirAta, i. 133 
Yirincya, L 342 

V t roea m } L 1 1 7 t % 3 1 f 305; L i . 31 
vErodldc, ii. 127 

ri&ltfaft. L 218j 233, 201, 301 \ ii. 
85 t 121 

TisSaia, i. 230, 344 
Visa'lft, E^ 259 
VittLiiyukiirajLii, L 254 

viBasanpij i. 6 1 
vislin p ib 159 

Vishnu, i. 04, IIS, 130, 131, 2IG P 
217, 231, 232, £83, 265, 858, 365, 
8S2, 388. 304, 397, 398, -b<3; ii. 
107, 120, 121 r 122 
YEshnucaiitlra, e. 153, 260, 3?6 ; ii, 
111 

viabiiu-dhfti'ma, L 54, 113-135 (?) T 
126 p), 132, 216, £17, 2] 3, 241, 
242, SS7 P 288* 291, 32 l T 329, 331. 
332, 344, S5S, 394. 658. 360,372, 
879, 3S0 P 361, 386, 387, 308 ; ii, 
2, 3, SI, 64 r 65 p 302, 121, HO. 
145 (?} t 174 ? 17.9 
Vishnu pwla, it. 1*2 
tisbipu-piiriftn, i. 47, 60. 61 r 63, 77 r 
126, 130, 131, 230 p £82, 235, 237- 
238, 218, 254, 255, 256, £62, 325. 
367, 388, 303; ii. 62, 105, 131, 
132 

Yiaiu^putra, i. 337 
visbtL 1&7* 109 

visfouva, ti. 3 S3 

viivn, i. 170, 312 

Vtrfvakarltislljj ii. 121 

Yisviiaitra, i P 239, 022, 301 

V'itsv.ii'llpaj ii. LI 3 3 

vilvlvasu, fi, !28 

v^vedyv&h, b S57 p 358 ; ti. 322 

vitals,, i. 230 

VitiiatiL IL 181 

VlfcftBCS, i, 167 

vitta (?} p i. £15 

Vitteivara, i. 156, S02 

vivAjjuputjda, F, 153 

Ylvarnn, i. 202 

Vivasvarit, L £17 


INDEX. 


4=7 


YivimSit* i. 254 
viyat* i. 17S 
Viyattha, i, 2 lIS 
Vodka, i. 325 
Vukk&no, i. SO 2 
Yphaepati, i. 131, 215 
VrLka, i- 223 
Ynkavaktra, L 231 
vri^ciksi, i, 220 
vmcikaiukitj il 230 

YriabOj i. 301* 387 
vpaliablia [ 3 J t ir. 12" 
Vfisbabadlivaj.iij i h 300 
Yfielian, i. 220 
vrislinK 1 . 344 
Yfitragbn'i (-}, 3. 2o 7 
vritta, i H 145 
yubara {¥) r ii, 10 1 

Yjfojip b 139-191 
Vyftgramuklin, i. 300 
vyikaram, i. 133 
vyaktftj i. 41 
VvfUagi-jvft, i. 301 
YyAoa (¥), ii, 121 

Yyta p J. 44 r ini, I0? t 103, 126, 127, 
131, 132. 134*' 173 S 208, 340, 3 El, 
352, 369, 304 ? 397, 398 
vyAEiEUiHEt^al& r b 233 
vyastatretiriiLko, i. 313 
vyatip&ta, ii, 204, 203, 203 
Vyaya, i, 394 ; ir. 127 

YAiuvi, i. 103, 404, 405 
JIM, ii. 197 
Yajnn, i. 242 

Yiijuavalkya, L 123, 131, 132’ H 
174 

y a] n opayttii, i. 181 ; it. 130, 136 


yajurveda, i. 127, 123 
yakfeha, j, 80, SI, 92, 247, 262 
Yama, L 131, 176, 271, 20b 202, 
SOS, 342; il, 115, 122 
Yamatoti, i. 267, 258, 272, 303 
yamala, i, 178 
Yam he a, i. 308, SIS 
Yamuna, i. 30 U, 302 
yfimya, L 358 
Yamyodadlii, i. 301 
Y»4wlS-(T>, i. 382, 357, 401 
Yi'l.4:j Vat t, i. 302 
yfttrfl, ii. 173 
Yaudheya, f. 303 
yawa, b 130, 162 

Yavann, i. 153, 15S, flG»0 1 302 ; ii. 5 
Ydvana-kotf, i. 300 
Yavasa (?)* i. 201 

Yay^ti, ii. 174 
yoga, ii. 191, 20 i srq, 
yog:L viltriL, j. 153 

yojana, i. 153* 107, 163, 169, 224, 
234, 233, 244 teq 9 265, 311 ; ii, 
65, 67 

yojaTifti of heaven, i% 72* 74, 79 
Yhna, i. 1 19 

Yudbvshttiirap i. 3-10, 3il, 390, 391, 
403; ii. 3 

jugs, i. 293* 367, 372 seq. t 397 ; iL 

1, % 124 ; tb^ir begin mng« F 136, 

3S7 

yi\kn t i. 1G2 
Y ukiaan, 3 h 394 
viivan, ii. 127 

Zita a j, i. 210 
Zanba ti} r ii. 142 
ZindufcntLtk^), i- 2ill 


INDEX II, 


A BIM j.K.-uUli Ibn + Abi Aliuja, i_204 
* AbJiiL I : j lli J in l A I m nka fie , i. ]59 
Abd-alimnnm v. Abi\-SahT p t. 5 
Abu- Ahmad Ibn Catlanlitegiji, L 

317 , 

AbCL-afabhAs AIAi/infibahri ( v b Aler- 

iLHftbjLhri), i. 0 

AM-al'aswad Abdu^ali, L 133 
AblWliath Albnstt, i, 34 
Abft-»Lli MbJtTi of Ahviiz, ii r 19 
AbQ-Bfikr Al-sbibii, I. 67 
A Lti-M ^’shar, l. 304, $25 
AbiBSahl 'Abd-alnma'im Ibn ‘All 
Ibn KYih Abtiflisl, j. 5 a 7 (also 
under 1 Abd-al m i tn’iin ) 

Abfr- Yakub nf Sijist&n, bis book 
Kaihf-a l mti.Jijtih , : . 6 4 
Abu-Yazfrl Alb island, i. 68 
’Adad-nJdau-a, ii.’lfi7 
Afghans, i r 206 
Afnubiib t 3. 304 

Al-grAiishahrl v. AbA-aVabb&a, i. 6 t 
249, 326 

Alexander, story of Lis birth, I. D6 
Atesander of Apbrodiaiae, i. $20 
Alexandria, i. 153 
Alfazari, i. 105, 303, 314, 315 ■ lb 
15, 16, 17, 18. 23 
xAlTtpijjAf, 11. ]f?3 

’AH Ibn Zain of Tabartatan, i 4 3$2 
AljiiLsK, I, 20* 

A1 jailiant, book of routea, i. 240 
Alklialil Ibn ‘Ahmad, t, 3 3$,. 147 
Al-kLwi'niami, n. 79, 111 
Alkindi, ii H 200, 201 
Aima'rofira. i. 21 
almanac from Kashmir, i. 391 
Almanfftr, Klialif* 

Al-mansHra, i. 21, 173„ 19$, 205, 
260, $16 ■ ju 6 
Ammonins, i S5 


AphrodisjiiE, i 407 
ApoIIuniua, tie cwh^is renim, i. 40 

Arabian astronomy (lunar stations), 
in SI, 90 

Arabian metric, i, ISS, 142, 144 
Arabian traditions, i. i70, 185 
Arabic literature, translation ut Ca- 
raka, i. 159 ; Kaiila and Dsmna, 
translation from the Indian cor- 
rupt, i. ]$2 

Arabs, L $02; different forms of 
matrimony with them, i 108 ] 
their idols, i, 12$ 

Aratus, 1. 97, 39$ ; scholia on the 
£%:fmosienay i. 97, SS4 
Archimedes, i, 106 
Anlaslih- Ibn B&bak, l lOfy 109 
ArdijA Eranlan, i. 219 
Aristotle, letter to Alexander, j. 124, 
225;, 223, 2$ 2 ; tjt- trench 
5 ; S20 

Arjfebbftr, ii. 19 

Arkand, i. 312, $16 ; il 7, 4$, 49 
Asclepius, L 222 
A&yira, i. 207 

Haetdottia, ii. 153 

Bagd ad, i s. ] 5, 67 

BoUcb, 'i. 21, 2'iO, 304 
J'arbitta^bi, ii. 10 
BaridLih, Eranien, i. 260 
Barmecides, h 159 
Bars! i a war, L 109 
Burykh, L 66 
Barney a, i. 159 
BashsMr Ibn Bard, ih 131 
Jihatfca-SL&b, 3. 207 
BhattaraiyAii, i + 207 
List (— viahti), iL £01 
Bolor mountain^ j. ] 17j 207 

Bolor-Sliali, l 200 


INDEX + 


429 


Buddhists, 3. 7, 21, 40, 91, 121, 158; 
their writing 173 ; theL r cosmo- 
graphy t ieMvSp 24^ 325 j: ik 159 
Bfobaug, i 299 

Calendar iff Kashmir, if. 5* 5 
Ceyton t i 209 j pearls, i. 2 l 1 
chess, i, 3 S3 -185 
China, n. 104 
Ch t cause,. ii. 239 
Chinese paper, I. 171 
Christianity, k 8, 8 
Christiana, their use of the words 
Father and Sou, L 38 
Chmtiim views, i. 50 
Christiana, i, 04 f ik 1S8 
Christian traditions, ii. 151, Ifil 
clepaydr^ i. 33" 

Cotfimod life. Emperor, k 123 
Constautiue, Emperor, ii. 101 

Datr.u., {. 20S 
Damn, i. 109 
Dinah, Persian, L 103 
Denars, L 309 

Dili?ij«t. (Mated! Eves, Laccadives), U 

233 ; ik 100 

Dirhams* i. 150, 103, 104 
dia (Persian), L 304 

Emfed 0 <jles, k 80 

era of the realm of Sindh, ik 43, 49 

era nf YazcUjird, ii. 43, 40 

Erni:iian traditions, k £49 

Er&n&lmlir* k 54 

Erichthomus, t. 407 

FJUfaza, i. 299 

farvikli, Persian, L 137, 811; ii. 

or, 63 

Fulfil i. 100 
FCLsanj, k 299 

Galknus, Er 222, 320 ; de indole 
raw, L 1 23 ; b&jl' n/sjwecfte-s. i. 95 ; 
hoot of dtnI^ttcUonj i. @7 ; com- 
mentary to the Apothegms of 
Hippocrates, ik 188 j Protred- 
tieas, k 84 } commentary oti the 
Aphorisms of Hipfapcratea, k 35, 
35; Kbt* yfrv, k V27, 151 
Gauge-year, ii, 2, 7, 23, 31, 39, 44 T 
47, 43, 50, 53 
Ghj^na, i. 117, 205, 317 
Ghiiznicj, ii, 103 

gftHrj measure in Khwarzim, i. 155 


Gb'.m at-rdaijiitj ii.. 90 
Ghtiza (Turks), n f 103 
Gilgit, i. 207 
Ginaagar, Uranian, i. 250 
Gfrshih, i. 109 
Goapel, quoted, i. 4 
Greek legends, k 98 
Greek philosophy, k 7, 24, 33 
Greek tradition b, i. 105, 112, 143 ; 
origin of the alphninH, i. 172 ; v\i 
the astrolabe, J. 215, 219, 220* 
222; on the Mi iky Way, k 2G, 
239 ; on the first meridian, L 304 ; 
on the chariot oi war, i, 407 

H.arkan, ii. ->2 
Hebrew, 5. 35, 37, 38 
ITerbadb, k 109 

IHndvHj tlieir language, i. 17 ? 
classical and vernacular, i, IS ; 
shortcomings of manuscript tra- 
dition, i. 18 ; the metrical form 
of composition, i + ID ■ their 
aversion to strangers, E, 20 ; 
itjL'ir systems of matrimony* i. 
107 ; the balance they na»?, i, 
184 ; relation between authors 
(writers) and th-a nation at large, 
i. 255 ; their architecture, ik 144 
Hippocrates, Me pedigree, L 379 
Homer, k 42, 9S 
Huns, ii. 239 

Ifljt Aim'SATFFA, i. 284 
Imptlfi, name of the rhinoceros with 
the Negroes, i. 204 
India, rainfall, k 211, £12 
Isfandiy&d, i, 193 

Islam* sectatfen views, i. 31 , 233* 25 4 
Ispahbad (of Ktlbnl), ir. 157 
’lya* lbn MuiwEya, ii + 155 

Jajirjtya, n Muslim sect, i. 31 
Jalam I bn ShaiMu, i. 115 
Jam. L 304 

Jewish tradition On the tetragrum- 
matou, i. 1?S 
Jews, h 5. 109 ; ii. 240 
Johannes Graminaticna, refutation 
of Froclua, i 35, 85i 225, 231 ; ii. 
171 

Jftn, Arabised form of yojAiuj^ i. 157 
Jurjaii, i. £53, 305 : ii- 182 
JuKajau, i 308 

K. a u 1 : l, i. 22 ; its history, ik 10, 157 


ALBBRUNI’S INDIA 


43° 

Kilbul-EL&hB* ii, It) 

Kilf mountain* i. 193, 2-19 
KriikiL'ftBj i. 304 
KmkbmsratJ, L 304 
Kalila and Dinina, i. 159 
Kandl (?}, ii. 182 ' 

Kangdi*, t. 504 

Kanz-nTiljy&T, title of a book of the 
Mmicbtoiva, quoted, L 39 

li irdajAt, i. 245, ’275 E ii* 205 

Kui'iLia.tiaiaa, i. 110, 1 17 
Kft'ds, i. 195 
Kashmir,. u 117 
kaift-birds, i. 195 
Khan^.ikb&dyaliA, Arabic, ii. '205 
liijyiu, Eramaij, h 2,49 

Khuteii, i. 205 

Kbay41-a1kusgti.fa.im (by Alberuui), 
1L 203 

KhurAiiJLn, i. 21 
K hwiritm, sea of, i. 253 
KhudrjgmLm xuaa&Ur$9 T i. I Go 
kirtiU (papyrus), s, 170 
Itit^b-almaiiBb^mt C a, y Ptolemy), ii. 
69 

K i t ftb-tibb-alfiy ala, ii. 245 
Koran, !. 4; ^iifi juterpr&littlon, i. 
83 r SS ■ quoted, L 170, 2 22 j 

sectarian interpretations, i. 255 ; 
quoted^ i. 20-1 ; ii. 1 1 J„ 115 
Kiiteutn, i, 270 
Khijiaii' islands, i. 210 
knrtak, Arabic piece o £ draws, i. 
' ISO, 239 

Laccadives, i. 210, 233 

Jj.'i.nga (■■loYtf-GUEiJitry), i. 309 
Latigab&lti&j i, 241, 310 
Javnng ( — clove)* i. 300 
Lulianiyya, i. 316 

lunar stations {uf the U Indue), L 
207 

ill aHmt':o [Yttm!n*i'ildfLula} 1 L 22 r 

117 i it. 2 t 13, 103 
Makrin, i. 209 
Maldives* l 210, 233 
Man A, Arabic, L 163, 154, 163 
HAni, i. 49, 54, 55 ; bis Keck o( 
Mysteries, L 54, 264, 331 ; iL 
105, 169 

Maiiichseans, i, 7, 39, 111, 123, 150 
Miftlb-’ihu-alLiiL’a [by AlWuui'b 
i. 277 

inLky6s h Arabic, i. 160 

inithkil, i. 150, 1G1, 103, 164 


MuAwiya, Khali F, i- 124 
Mil ham mad Ibn AlkzUshn, the eon 
queror of Sindh, L 21, 110 
11 ii I lai ci m :l< 1 Ibt] Isli&k, of SarakUs, 
ii! 15, IS* IS 

Muhammad Ibn Zakartyyft Al-rdzt, 

L 319 

Mnhanmjirii (Buddhists), i. 330 
Miikl, Arabic, a tree, L 208 
Hulaiiima 1 } Arabic, kind of weed, L 
211 

.Multan, 5. 121 
MutaziL, i. 5 
Myrtilus {?), i. 407 

X.\[iD, a play, i, 192 
Xa.it roz, is. 2 
Nikdh-almaktJ. 109 
X T jlf, sources* i. 270 
nimbahr, Persian* h S43 
wlmbahraj Persian, 5. 21 4 

Nimroz, 1 D8 
Kteh&pftr., h SO 5 
mikbahr, ii F 225, 223* 229 

Obdeals, ii. 159, 160 
Qjsau* i. 200 

Paper* j* 171 
papyrus, r. 171 

Persian* i. 40; vazid^j — gnzida, i. 

158, 2L3 f 214 i mm&T t h 241 
Persiasi grammar* technical term, i, 

19 

Persian metric* i + 133 
Persian traditions, i. 21* 03, 100, 
109, 19S t 304 

Plato, 1 A 3, 65, 67; I^w, h 105* 
123 - t 370} 335 ; i. 35_ 

223, 231, 322 j /faecfo, l 56* 57. 
65-07, 71, 70, 35, SO r ii. 106, 
167, 171 _ 

Poi j tu a Euiintm, 5. 259 
Porphyry* quoted, i. 43 
Precina, i 57, 80 

Ptolemy* ijin&jeat, 3, 220, 269; 

geography, 299, 390 ; ii. 69 
Pythagoras, i. 05, 75, 85 

ILmss, island, i. 21 0 
rati, Arabic, i. 163 
Rente, i r 300 

He mnl us fmd Remus* L 112 
llustaiit, ii. 246 

SaUUKTAGI.V (Xlhdr-JLldauli-;}, i. 22 


INDEX , 


4 H 


Hakukila, ii. 45, 47, 49, 50, 51* 54, 
. 55 

i r 23G 

Samarkand, paper of, i- 173 
SaraMns, ii. 15 
Sattl, ji r 155 

ven EUbiSj i. 394 
Sbiiklt ( = 6aH?), ii- 48,49 
Sham aniy $ a (mrofluma), L 21 
SbitpOrkSn, i. 301, 305 
Slitob, L 295 

shauhat, Arabic* kind of wood, i, 

21 i ' 

Shiite l 207 
iSltiigbiiAii-Sliftbj i 200 
Sicily^ L 324 

Sidar 3 Arabic, piece of dress, i, ISO 
Siji&t&n, 3,198 
Simonides, L 172 

S^lldH, Muhammadan oniiqu&ity 1. 
21 p 22, 165 ; Eianian t i. 260- 
mission from Sindh to Bagdad, 
ii. 15 

SLjidljiLMl, l 153* 332, 369 § ii. SO, 
]fll i 

Slavonian u, ii, 167 
Slavonians,, Sea of tile, i„ 25S 
smallpox (a wind blowing from 
L*ftk#y< i 30 0 

Socrates* i. 25, 95, 170; i ] „ 1 7 1 

Sogdisuifi, i 2 If) 

b]fu- l-Bnuhra, Persian, i. 323 

Stui'L, i. 93 

SuiAla, L 2fl4, 211, 270; ii. 104 
Kufi, explanation of the word, L 33 
Sufis, L 351 

S&ikni, f. B p 57, 02 f 59, 73, 33, 37, 
' S3 

sukhkh, measure in KUwfkrizm, i. 

106 

jivism^Tj, persiaiL, i. 211 


Syria, i. 270 
Syriac, paihkdpd, L 33 

IV hk in- a ti apt . ak (t, Ya'kti.b), E. 

3] 6, 333; ii. 57 
Taitamg, i. 57 
Tiohkand, f. 203 
Tau&ar, h 109 
Tibet, i. 201, 20 G 
Tibetan^ ii, 10 
TSrmidJt, i. 260, 303 
Tkj i. 20.9 

Tiii an, i. 208 

Turks, i. 22, 206, 252, 302 ; it 10, 

135, 178 

Tuz, Persian, name of a tree, i. 171 

Unako, i, 207 
Uzain (ujaiu), i 308 

VakhA^-Su4h, i h 205 
vellum, i. 171 

WaewIk, island, i. 210 

WkC’JI Ibrt Tsrrilc, 1 jiV TwrMh-td'a- 
Mh 1. 1601- 303, 312, 315. 363 ; 
ii, 15. IS* 23, 20, 3 i F 38, 44, 45, 
57, 59 

Yaadajirtl, hia era, ii. 45 
Yemen (distinguished from Arabia), 
i 270 

Zaeaj, i. 210 ; ii. 100 

Zun-j, the nftlioiiR of Kaatffrn Africa, 

L 252, 270; ii. 104 
Zarkd-iij f. 7 
Zi it (life, L 254 
Zoroaster, i. 21, 01, 90 
Zumasi.rixng (in Sogdifttia), J. 249, 
200 ; their dakbmiiH, ji H 167 


Printed by lULLAHttl'NE, HASSCtf CO. 
Edinburgh London 










I 




065347 75 






< 

a 






& tM 

M 


4* u 



rn 



h* r\J 

□£ 


* > 

ui 



CD 

V 

O' pH 

-J 


CO U- 

< 



MAY 9 1962 







