RASHTRAPATI BHAVAN I 
LIBRARY 




PRZSISE'nT’S SECKETARiAT 
(LIBRARY) 


Accn. Ks Class No 

The book should be returned on or before the date 
last stamped below. 



TT 


THE INDIAN TEXTS SERIES-I. 

EDITED UNDER THE SUPERVISION OF THE 

ROYAL ASIATIC SOCIETY 


VOL. II. 


w 






Acrangzeb receiving DIrI Shukoh’s Head on a Charger, 


Vol. H 


Frontispiece, 


INDIAN TEXTS SEBIES 


STORIA DO MOGOR 

OR MOGUL INDIA 
BY NICCOLAO MANUCCI 

VENETIAN 

TRANSLATED 

WITH INTRODUCTION AND NOTES 

BY WILLIAM IRVINE 

BENGAL CIVIL SERVICE (RETIRED) 

MEMBER OF THE ROYAL ASIATIC SOCIETY 


VOL. II 


LONDON 

JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET 

PUBUSHED FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
1907 




CONTENTS TO VOL. II. 


PART II. 

PAGE 

Aurangzeb ........ 1-324 

His first measures, i ; action against wine-drinking, 5 ; action 
against bhangs 7 ; sumptuary law about beards, 7 ; the burial of 
Music, 8 ; dancing-women forced to marry, 9 ; about elephant- 
drivers, 9; of holy mendicants, ii; vengeance on holy men of 
Barah, 14 ; the feigned faqlr who buried a horse, 15 ; mansahd&rs^ 

16; M. Zaman, Persian refugee, 17; houses and gardens, 18; 
spies, 18 ....... . 1-18 

Dispute between Aurangzeb and his father, 19; rajahs summoned 
to Court, 21; Rajah Elaran, Bhurtij-ah, 22; Naj§.bat Khan’s dis- 
grace, 23 ; Shaistah Khan sent against Shiva Ji, 35 ; descent and 
history of Shiva Ji, 26 ; Aurangzeb’s tutor reproved, 29 ,* Amir 
Khan sent to Kabul, 33; Roshan-ara asks for Begam Sahib’s 
palace, 14 ; her lovers, 35 ; ambassadors from Balkh, 36 ,* Aurangzeb 
wants a navy, 45 ; ambassador from Persia, 47 . . 19-54 

Illness of Aurangzeb, 54; his children, 57; he remits revenue, 60; 
the Dutch ambassador, 62; attempt to make Shahjah§,n die of 
disgust, 64; poison ordered for Shahjah§.n, 65 ; Aurangzeb departs 
for Kashmir, 66 ; description of the order of march, 67 ; N. M. 
returns to Dihli, 75 ; goes to Agrah, 76 ; I‘tibar Khan, eunuch, 

77; digression on eunuchs, 80; H. Roth, Jesuit, 81; N. M. at 
Allahabad, 81 ; the Ganges, 82; Benares, 83; Patnah, 84; b}^ boat 
to Rajmalial, 86 ; to Dhakah, 86 ; Thomas Pratt, 87 ; the Sundar- 
bans, 87; story of Manoel Coelho, ‘tiger-slayer,’ 87; the sankhim 
fairies, 87 . . . . . . . . 54-8? 

N. M. arrives at Htigli, 89; his stay there and what happened, 90; 
crocodile stories, 93 ; missionary irregularities, 94 ; N. M. returns 
to Agrah by lan^ 95; Qasimbazar, 96; Rajmahal, 96; Hindu 
woman drags her lover on to pyre, 96; Patnah, 96; Allahabad, 

96; Agrah, 96; Jacob, a Dutch surgeon, 96; N. M. takes up 
medicine, 97; rescues a widow from sati, 97; prohibition of 
widow-burning, 97 ..... . 89-97 

Mir Jumlah and the war in Assam, 98 ; death of Mir Jumlah, loi ; 
flight of T. Pratt, and his death, io3 ; Shiva Ji wounds Shaistah 

V 



VI 


CONTENTS 


Aurangzeb (continued) : 

Khan. IC4; Udepuri Mahal drunk, 107; stoi^’ of an indiscreet 
huntsman, 108 ; Aurangzeb returns from Kashmir, 108 ; death of 
ghainullah Elhan, 109; Ethiopian ambassador, 109; envoy from 
the Sharif of Mekkah, 1 14 ; envoy from Basrah, 1 15 ; Shahjahan 
and Aurangzeb, 116 . . . . . . 98-116 

Chatganw taken, 117,* Portuguese there, 118; widening of gates at 
Dihli, 1 19; wall built at Labor, 119; walls at Aurangabad and 
Burhanpur, 119; Shiva Ji plundering, 119; meteorolite at Ujjain, 

1 19 ; great mosque at Labor, 120 .... 1 17-120 

Rajah Jai Singh posted to the Dakhin, 120; N. M. appointed to 
command Jai Singh’s artillery, 121; march to Dakhin, 122; 
Bahadur Khan. 122 ; death of Shahjahan, 125 ; story of elephant 
which died of grief, 127; ambassador sent to Persia, 128; his 
misadventures, 130 ...... 120- 130 

Returns to Jai Singh’s campaign in the Dakhin, 131; N. M. 
deputed to Ramnagar, Pent, and Chotia, 132 ; a horse bewitched, 

133 bewitched radishes, 134; Indian witchcraft, 134; ven- 
triloquism, 134; amorous spells, 134; country of western ghats, 

131-135 

Shu’S Ji surrenders to Jai Singh, 135; goes to Dihli, but takes to 
flight, 137; Jai Singh moves against Bijapur, 140; Sharzah Kp.n, 

141 ; Jai Singh retreats, 142 ; Padre Damia5 Viera, 143 ; attack on 
Portuguese at Chaul, 143 ; N. M. resigns Jai Singh’s service, 144; 
proceeds to Kambe, thence to Bassein, 144; N. M. nearly murdered, 

144; passes on to Goa, 145 ; speaks iU of the Goanese, 145 135- 145 

Shah ‘Abbas defies Aurangzeb, 146; Tarbiyat Khan, envoy, returns 
from Persia, 146; birth of Kam Ba^sh, 146; death of ‘Abd-ul- 
Qavri, 147; death of Shah ‘Abbas, Safawi, 149; Begam Sahib 
makes llullas' drives drunk, 149; French envoys, De la Boullaye 
G-ouz and Beber, 150; death of Rajah Jai Singh, 152; persecu- 
tions, 154; death of Father Busee, S.J., 154; Ja‘far Kh an , waztr, 

156 > Shah ‘Alam sent against Shiva Ji, 158 ; execution of a 
renegade friar, 159; Shah ‘Alam negotiates with Shiva Ji, 161; 
pretends to rebel, 162; deception discovered, 165; Mundiyahs 

attack Dihli, 167 

Goa, diseases at, 169; fruit of, 169; N. M. leaves Goa in disguise, 

171; crosses BWmia, 172; attack by robbers in Pandhaipur, 172; 
arrives at Parenda, 173: stays at Aurangabad, 173; journey 
through Burhanpur and Agrah to Dihli, 174; tobacco tax 
remitted, 175 

N. M. moves to Labor, 176 ; turns doctor— his first ragA 176 ; 
on^n of Labor and description thereofi 179: Husain Pasha 
(Islam aan) from Basrah, 187 ; marriages of princesses— Bernier 
cnticised, 187; the chief tricked by his daughter, 188; /lAatii 
of Roshan Ara Begam (1671), 189; the Hng of Kashgar arrives, 

190; a Pathan rising-fictitious Shah Shuja*, 193: death ofSultan 
Muhammad, 194 



CONTENTS 


vii 

Aurangzeb [coniintied ) : 

PAGE 

N. M. accuvsed by Muhammad Amin Khan of theft, 196; Muhammad 
Amin Kha.n defeated by the Pathans, 199; Mahabat Khan sent 
back to Kabul, 202 ; peace made with Shiva Ji, 203 ; Shiva Ji 
moves into the Karnatik, 203 ; Aurangzeb takes the field against 
the Pathans, 204; Mahabat Khan falls ill and dies, 204; X. M. 
treats the daughter of Murad Bal^sh, 207; N. M. in trouble for 
using human fat, 209; other Europeans persecute N. M,, 212; 

N. M. attempts to elope with a Pathan widow from Qasur, 214; 
stoiy^ of Daulat, eunuch, 215; N. M. expels devils, 217 . 196-217 

Misconduct of ‘Izzat Khan, Governor of Sind, 218; Aurangzeb 
returns to Dihli, 221 ; slaughter of fiftj’-two Pathan chiefs, 222; 
the treaty with Shiva Ji broken, 222; Multafat Khan attacks 
Agrah villagers, 223; houses of Agrah priests searched, 225; 
wine of Kabul, 225 ...... 218-225 

N. M. quits Eahor, goes to Bandora via Dihli, Agrah, Surat, and 
Daman, 227; N. M. loses his money and returns to Mogul 
territory’, 228; Agrah priests falsely accused, 229; N. M. enters 
Shah "Alam*s service, 229; march of army to Aurangabad, 230: 
death of Shiva Ji, 231 ; death of Rajah Jaswant Singh, 233; 
attack on Tibet, 235 ; war against the Rana, 236 ; recall of Shah 
‘Alam from the Dakhin, 239; XJdepur, 239; Ajmer— -rebellion of 
Prince Akbar, 243; Shah ‘Alam summoned to Ajmer, 244; comet, 
December 24, 1680, 246 ; Akbar^s attack fails, 247 ; Shah 'Alamos 
pursuit, 249; peace made with the Rana, 251; story of Mirza 
Kuchak, a Persian refugee, 253 ..... 227-253 

Aurangzeb goes to the Dakhin (1681), 255; still there (1700), 255; 
death of Begam Sahib (1681), 255; events in the Dakhin, 256; 
death of Diler Khan (1683), 257; removal of Surat Governor 

(1684), 259 255-259 

N. M. leaves Shah ‘Alam, 260; reaches Goa via Surat and Daman, 

261; Sambha Ji’s and Akbar’s project against Goa, 261 ; N. M. 
employed by Governor as translator and negotiator, 262 ; Sambha 
Ji defeats Portuguese at Ponda (1683), 263; Portuguese send 
envoy to Sambha Ji, and his return embassy to Goa, 265 ; N. M. 
takes part, 266 ; N. M.’s visit to Mogul fleet o£F Vingorla, 269 ; 

Santo Estevao Island taken by Sambha Ji (November, 1683), 269 ; 

N. M.’s second visit to Sambha Ji, 271 ; Shah *Alam arrives near 
Goa, 272 ; he sends envoy to Goa, 273 ; N. M. sent to Shah ‘Alam, 

275 : flight of Akbar to Persia, 279 ; peace with the Portuguese, 

2S0; N. M. made a Knight of St. lago (Januarjs 1684), 281 . 260-281 

N. M. forced to rejoin Shah ‘Alam, 283; destruction of White 
Pagoda, 285 ; return march to 'Bardes, 286 ; disastrous march via 
Ramghat to Ahmadnagar, 287; move to Sholapur, 288; Shah 
‘Alam sent against Gulkandah, 289 .... 283-289 

N. M. takes flight to Gulkandah, 289 ; Shah ‘Alam occupies Gul- 
kandah (1685), 290; peace made, 294; N. M.’s flight to Masuli- 
patam and Narsapur, 294; is brought back, 295; escapes once 



CONTENTS 


viii 

Aurangzeb (continued) : 

more and reaches Madras, 296; N. M.’s marriage (October, 1686), 

298; infant son dies, 298; treats many patients, 298 . . 289*298 

Capture of Bijapur— king deposed (1686), 299; story of Bijapur 
queen mother and her marriage to a cock, 300; operation for 
artificial noses, 301; Aurangzeb renews attack on Gulkandah 
king, 301 ; Shah ‘Alam and his family imprisoned (March, 1687), 

303 ; Gulkandah taken and king deposed (October, 1687), 305 ; 
capture of Sambha Ji (December, 1688) and execution (March, 

16S9), 3 TO ; ^azi-ud-din Khan blinded, 315 ; arrest of Kam Ba^sh, 

316 ; Shah ‘Alam released (Maj*, 1694), 317 ; Sobha Singh, a Bengal 
rebel, 318; the Jats burn Akbar Badshah’s bones, 319; death of 
Shaistah TThau (1694), 321 ; Prince Akbar advances on India, but 
retreats, 322 ; concluding remarks, 324 . . . 1-324 


PART III. 


Introductory remarks ........ 329 

The royal household, the palace, the mahal or seraglio, 330; zvagi‘a/2- 
72 avTs, ^ufiyah-navis, 331; king’s expenditure, 332; names of 
queens and princesses, 333; of concubines, 334; of the matrons, 

334; of superintendents of dancers, 335; of women slaves, 336; 
expenditure, 338; life in the harem, 339; wearing of jewels, 339; 
henna, 340; harem attire, 341; the hospital, 342; Aurangzeb’ s 
simple habits, 342 ; precious stones, 342 ; birth ceremonies, 343 ; 
allowances to princes, 343 ; birth of a prince, 343 ; presents, how 
looked on, 344; M. Raisin, French merchant, 344; bribes, 345; 
festivals, 345 ; the salgirah, 346; modes of addressing the king, 

346; education of princes, 346; Nauroz festival, 348; the ^Id 
and the ^uidah (bidding prayer), 349; names of eunuchs, 350: 
physicians, 352; presents, 353; bloodletting, 355; names of 
physicians, 356; chief male slaves, 357,* names of swords and 
daggers, 35S ; names of shields, 359 ; names of principal horses, 

360; the chief elephants, 361; elephant fights, 364; names of 

cannon, 365 330-365 

Titles of nobles, 366; mamahs and pay, 369; rate of pay for com- 
manders of twenty up to six thousand horse, 369; -paLj and 
allowances, 374; branding of horses, 375; rozmahdars (daily 
allowance holders), 377 ; recruiting and inspection, 377 ; paj^ment 
of soldiers, 379 ; disputes about pay, case in 1699 at Jinji, 379 366-379 

Disobedience of orders, 380; local hindrance to Sir W. Norris, 381; 
bad administration, 382; faith not kept, 382; digression on 
Dutch embassy of 168S, 383 .... . 380-383 

Note on the Dutch embassy of 1688 ..... 384 

Briber^*, 388; seal of emperor and panjah (hand imprint), 389 ; pensions, 

389 J payment of queens’ and princesses’ establishments, 390; 
imported horses, 390; Aurangzeb’s subtle policy, 391; Shah 



CONTENTS 


IX 


PAGE 

‘Alam’s habits and character, 392 ; A‘zam Shah’s character and 
conduct, 394; disputes between princes, 394; quarrel between 
Shah ‘Alarn and his son, 396 ..... 3S8-396 

Slave girl’s strange illness, 397 ; Shah ‘Alam tries to make X. M. marry, 

398 ; attempt to convert N. M., 401 ; Mogul princes’ manner in 
public and in private, 401 ; Rajah Bhao Singh, Hacla, 402 ; Shah 
*Alam and N. M., 402 ; envious rival physicians, 404 ; some cases 
treated by N. M., 404; Christian physicians given the hopeless 
cases, 405 ; more cases described, 406 .... 397-406 

Diler Khan’s death, 409 ; practice of abortion, 410 ; Prince Mu'izz-ud- 
din and his wife, 41 1 ; N. M. treats a concubine of Shah ‘Alam, 

41 1 ; Shah ‘Alam’s affable character, 412; slaves, position of, 

412; N. M. employs the actual cautery, 412 . . . 409-412 

List of the twenty-four provinces with their land revenue . . 413 

Table showing land revenue in 1707 ..... 416 

Jizyah or poll-tax, 415 ; inland customs, 415; pilgrim-tax, 417; diamond 
mines, 417; sea customs, 417; escheats, 417; deductions from 
pay, 417 ; miscellaneous revenue, 418 .... 415-418 

Bxports: cotton and cotton cloth, 418; indigo, 418; opium, 418; silk, 

418; import of gold and silver, 418; export of diamonds and 
saltpetre, 418 . . . . . . . 418 

The wa^r^ 419; the diwSLnSf 419; Lord Chamberlain, 419; 3Hr 

419; second ditto, 419; 419; muffin 419; story about 

‘Abd-ul-wahhab, 419 ; the kotwdl, 420 ; haldl-J^r (house scaven- 
gers), 421 ; Ddro^h of the Ganj (grain market), 421 ; the news- 
reporters, 421 ....... 419-42 1 

The provinces and their products, 421 ; Dihli, 421 ; standing army, 422; 
audience-halls, 423 ; mace-bearers, 423 ; Agrah ( Akbarabad), 424 ; 
Lahor, 424; Ajmer (Sambhar Lake), 425; Gujarat (AhmadSlbad), 

425; Malwah, 425; Patnah (Bihar), 426; Multan, 426; Kabul, 426; 
Tattah, 427; Bhakkar, 427; Urissah, 427; IlahabSs (Allahabad), 

428; Aurangabad, 428; Barar, 429; Burhanpur (^andesh), 429; 
Baglanah, 429 ; Nander, 429 ; phakah, 429 ; Ujjain, 430 ; Rajmahal, 

430; Bijapur, 430; Gulkandah, 430 .... 421-430 

Coinage, 431; besoar stones, 431; latitudes and longitudes, 431; royal 
agents for purchase of goods in provinces, 431 ; governors’ and 
zamlnddr^ quarrels, 432 ...... 431-432 

Territories of Hindu rajahs, 432; the Rana, 432; Rathor Rajah, 432; 
story of Shahjahan and Chattarsal, Hada, 432: Sisodiah Rana, 

433; Rathors, 433; Kachhwahahs, 434; Bhurtiyahs, 434; Hadas, 

434; Bundelahs, 434; Rawateias, 435,* other rajahs, 435; names 
of Rajput tribes, 435; story of a converted rajah, 436; names of 
Rajputs, 437; their bards, a battle charge, 437; Rajah Sarup 
Singh, 438; the Barfl Rajah or Ice King, 438; Bhutan, 439 . 432-439 
Summing up: Mogul strength hollow, 440; routes and distances, 441 ; 
rajahs south of Allahabad, 442; their tribute, 442; Aurangzeb’s 
chained lion, 443 ; court etiquette, anecdote of jaffar Khan, 443 ; 
zamJnddrs, 444; the two Kamatiks, 444; Velur and other for- 



X 


CONTENTS 


PAGE 

tresses, 445; collusion of Mogul commanders, 445; anecdote of 
Mahabat (Ibrablm), 445; fortresses, 445; anecdote, Fort of 
the Slaves, 447; slaves and servants, character of, 447: anecdote 
of Asaf ]^n, 448; insolence of servants, 448; hardships of cam- 
paigning, 448 ; the 5^ weight, 449 ; iiigh prices and plague, 449 44^449 
Xhe koycLth caste, 449 » koyath and the soldier, 449 * faujdufSy 450 * 
the peasants are bad payers, 450 ; force used, 450 ; sales of children 
and cattle, 451 ,* faujdars must compensate travellers for losses, 

451 ; Indians like oppression, 45 ^ » ^ tirade on the Indian 
character, 452 ; nature of conversions to Christianity, 452 . 449-452 

Mahomedan tribes : PathS.ns, 453 ; Sayyids, 454 » Shek]iz2.dahs, 454 ; 
Biloch, 455; Ghakkars, 455; Jat, 455; clever disguise of a spy, 

456; Bhatis, 457; Lakhi jungle, 457; Mewatis, 458; Minas and 
Baurias, 458; thieves— Bidaris, 459; Bundelah, 459; Purbiyah, 

459 ......... 453-459 

Chess-playing— anecdote, of Jahangir’s envoy to Persia, 460; ambassador 
from Grand Seignor (1689), 461 ; Mogul mode of government, 

461 ; case of Arab merchants, 462 ; ^usal^Ntanah (privy council 
hall), 462; Shak-butj {xoy^l bastion), 46^; palace gardens, 463; 
other gardens, 463; story of twelve men and eleven women 

(Labor), 463 460-463 

Deceits and false oaths of Mogul kings, 464 ; honours and gifts, 464 ; 
bdranl gifts, 464; traditionary secrets, 464; attendance at audi- 
ence, 465 ; rivalry between princes, 466 ; unruly act of Prince 
Kam Ba^sh, 465 ; pigeon-flying, 467 ; A‘zam Shah’s behaviour 
during father’s illness, 467; human sacrifices, 468; anecdote of 
Ibrahim (son of) Adham, 469; and of King Bikramajit, 470 . 464-470 



ILLUSTRATIONS TO VOL. 11. 


Aurangzeb receiving the head of Dara Shukoh . Frontispiece 
Blochet, * Inventaire ’ No. 14. 

NO. FACING PAGE 

XIII. Sulj^n Muhammad, eldest son of Aurangzeb . . • 3^ 

Blochet, No. 17. 

XIV. Shah ‘Alam, second son of Aurangzeb . - . -72 

Blochet, No. 18. 

XV. Sultan A^gam Shah, third son of Aurangzeb • . .108 

Blochet, No. 19. 

XVI. Sultan Akbar, fourth son of Aurangzeb . . . .144 

Blochet, No. 20. 

XVII. Sultan Kam Baldish. fifth son of Aurangzeb . . . 180 

Blochet, No. 21. 

XVIII. Sultan Sulaiman Shukoh, son of Dara Shukoh . . . 216 

Blochet, No. 22. 

XIX. Sultan Mu*izz-ud-din, eldest son of Shah ‘Alam . . . 252 

Blochet, No. 23. 

XX- Sultan *Agim-ud-din, second son of Shah ‘Alarn . . . 28S 

Blochet, No. 24. 

XXI. Sultan Sikandar, son of Shah Shuja* . . . .324 

Blochet, No. 25. 

XXII. Shaistah maternal uncle of Aurangzeb . . . 360 

Blochet, No. 26. 

XXin. Rajah Jaswaat Singh, Rathor, of Jodhpur . . . 39 ^ 

Blochet, No. 27. 

XXIV. Rajah Jai Singh (Mirza Rajah), Kachhwahah, of Amber . 432 

Blochet, No. 28. 

XXV. Mirjumlah 468 

Blochet, No. 29. 


XI 




SECOND PART 


OF THE 

HISTORY OF THE MOGULS 


BY 

NICCOLAO MANUCCI, Venetian 


ON THE REIGN OF AURANGZEB, WARS OF 
GULKANDAH AND BijAPUR, WITH VARIOUS EVENTS 
UP TO THE YEAR 1700 


VOL. II. 


I 




OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF 
HINDUSTAN, AND ELEVENTH OF THE RACE OF 
TAIMUR-I-LANG 

Those are kings whom God appoints, but as they know not 
His secret purposes, men decline to acknowledge those who 
unjustly seize some kingdom. All the same, the saying in the 
Proverbs of Solomon, chapter viii., is incontrovertible : Per 
me reges regnant (v. 15, ^ By me kings reign and princes decree 
justice’). God alone raises men to the throne to be either a 
scourge or a solace to their subjects. Thus, although the holy 
men of Mecca declined to accept the gifts sent by Aurangzeb, 
because Shahjahan, his father, was still alive, I shall not, 
in this my book, delay speaking of him as king until the death 
of Shahjahan, but from the commencement I feel obliged to 
concede his being such, for as an undisputed monarch he ruled 
over Hindustan ; and this course is demanded by this history 
to facilitate the reader’s understanding thereof. 

Finding himself now arrived at the goal of all his hopes, his 
father in prison, his brothers dead, Aurangzeb ordained a nine 
days’ festival,^ during which he received congratulations and 
valuable gifts from the great men of the kingdom. He continued 
his accustomed sacrifice of pimento, which he began when prince 
in the Dakhin. This was conducted in the following way: 
Having taken a handful of pimento and said a prayer, he 
threw it on some live charcoal, where it was allowed to smoke 
for some moments. Then the coals and the said smoking 
pimento were sent out to be thrown on some mound or other, 

^ This was the jashan, or accession festival, which recurred annually. The 
first one began on the 24th Ramazan, 1069 H. (June 15, 1659), though the reign 
was counted from the ist Ramazan, 1068 H. (June 2, 165S). 

3 


I — 2 



4 


OF KISG AURAKGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

'wli6r6 th6 whols was consumed. Thus he hss been uccustomed 
to act every Friday up to the present time.^ 

He knew that the people murmured at his usurpation, and 
therefore after the days of festival he set to work to restore 
order in the realm, by way of showing that his object was not 
merely to reign, but to work for the good of Hindustan, which 
(as he said) was near to destruction by reason of the careless- 
ness of Shahjahan and the bad judgment of Dara. Therefore 
he began by rewarding the nobles who had aided him in his 
undertaking. He confirmed to Rajah Jai Singh the present 
made to him of the province of Sambar (Sambhar®) ; the pay of 
others was increased ; each noble received a set of robes, to the 
greatest being given a scimitar covered vrith precious stones [2], 
having a rich and handsome hilt, an elephant and a horse. 
He well knew that liberality and generosity are necessary to a 
prince ; but if not accompanied by justice and sufficient vigour 
they are useless ; rather do they serve to the perverse as occasion 
for greater insolence, as in the verse ; 

Oderunt fecan honi virtutis amore ; 

Oderunt fecan malt formidine paena.^ 

Thus, after the festival, he sent an order to decapitate 
500 thieves, thereby terrorizing the perverse. These execu- 
tions were to take place in front of the mosque called Cadam 
RaguP (Qadam-i-rasul) — that is to say, ‘ Footsteps of the Sent,’ 
because it has a stone on which two footmarks are cut, for 

^ As Mr, A. G. Ellis points out, the prayer sanctified this pagan rite. Mr. W. 
Crooke has kindly given me the following references to the use of incense against 
the influence of demons: ‘Popular Religion of Northern India,’ second edition, 
ii. 21 ; Burton, - Arabian Nights ’ (edition Smithers), i. 185, x. 407; Burckhardt, 
‘Nubia,* 293 ; Ty lor, ‘ Primitive Culture,’ i. 482 ; Bleek, ‘ Avesta,’ i. 69 ; Maurice, 

‘ Indian Antiquities,’ vii 637 ; Drew, * Jummoo and Kashmir,* 431. See a curious 
instance of consecrating mares and camels by incense, Yule, ‘Marco Polo,’ first 
edition, i. 272. For the use of turmeric in India, see Watt, ‘ Economic Products,’ 
ii. 6C9. Sipand, or wild rue, is used by Mahomedans (see Herklot’s ‘ Qanoone 
Islam,’ Glossary, Ixxxiv.). 

- See ante, Part I., folio 221. 

- * The good hate to sin for love of virtue ; 

The wicked hate to sin for fear of punishment.’ 

* This shrine lies about one and a half miles to the south-west of the Labor 
Gate of Dihli (Carr-Stephen, ‘Archaeology,’ 147). It was founded in a.d. 1374. 



WINE IS PROHIBITED 


5 


which the Mahomedans have great veneration. Not content 
with putting in order aifairs in the city of Dihll, where his 
court was, in his desire to be called just and thus cover his 
usurpation, he also sent off new governors and viceroys to the 
provinces and kingdoms to displace the old ones. Although he 
did not fail to give the new governors good instructions, he 
added unfailingly some others that served his own dissimula- 
tions and intrigues. Among these was an order that they might 
take false oaths, and by thus swearing gain over men and raise 
rebellions in neighbouring kingdoms. When the attempt 
succeeded, it would suffice for them to feed ten mendicants, 
by which they would be freed from their sin and absolved 
from their promises, in spite of having backed them by a 
thousand oaths on the Quran. 

Aurangzeb takes Measures against Wine. 

Among the other disorders, Aurangzeb observed that in 
Hindustan, chiefly in Dihli, there was great licence among 
Mahomedans and Hindus in the consumption of wine, although 
most repugnant to this king, who declared himself a strict 
follower of the Quran. This licence began in the time of 
Jahangir, although Akbar was the first to give leave to the 
Christians to prepare and drink wine; but in his time the 
Mahomedans did no^ drink. The evil example of Jahangir 
established this custom among the Mahomedans. In the 
days of Shahjahan they drank with full liberty, just as if drink- 
ing water, encouraged by Dara’s example. Nor did Shah- 
jahan, although not a drinker himself, care to remedy this dis- 
order, but left everyone to live as he pleased, contenting himself 
with passing his days among women, as I have already said. 

It was so common to drink spirits when Aurangzeb ascended 
the throne, that one day he said in a passion that in all Hin- 
dustan no more than two men could be found who did not 
drink, namely, himself and [3] ‘Abd-ul-wahhab, the chief qdzl 
appointed by him, as already said at the end of Part I. (I. 277). 
But with respect to ^Abd-ul-wahhab he was in error, for I 
myself sent him every day a bottle of spirits {vino)^ which he 



6 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


drank in secret, so that the king could not find it out. 
Aurangzeb wished to repress this disorder, and therefore 
ordered that all Christians, excepting physicians and surgeons, 
should leave the city and remove to near the park of artillery, 
which was beyond the suburbs at one league’s distance from 
the city. There they had leave to prepare and drink spirits on 
condition they did not sell them. 

After the issue of this order he directed the kotwdl (chief of 
police) to search out Mahomedans and Hindus who sold spirits, 
every one of whom was to lose one hand and one foot. With- 
out foil the kotwdl went out to search for the vendors, although 
himself one of the consumers. One day I saw him carry out 
such a sentence on six Mahomedans and six Hindus; after 
the punishment he ordered them to be trailed to a dung-heap, 
leaving them there to die discreetly. This penal order was in 
force for a time, so that no vendors were to be found ; for 
whenever the kotwdl suspected that spirits were made in any 
house, he sent his soldiers to plunder everything in it. The 
regulations were strict at first, but little by little they were 
relaxed ; and during the period of strictness the nobles, who 
found it hard to live without spirits, distilled in their houses, 
there being few who do not drink secretly. 

I have said that the Christians had leave to prepare spirits 
for their own consumption, but were prohibited selling them. 
On this account sentinels were kept over them to watch that 
they did not sell. In spite of this, the gain being great, they 
did not refrain, by resorting to a thousand expedients, from 
selling them on the sly, although when the offence was dis- 
covered the kotwdl used to send and plunder the house, the 
still being hung round the offender’s neck, and then he was 
taken through the streets chained, and buffeted on his way to 
tYiekotwaVs house. On arrival there half dead he was locked 
up in prison, and only released after many months with a fine 
and a beating. 

But such was the Christians’ insolence and absence of shame 
that they did not desist. They were of many nations, mostly 
thieves and criminals ; and without slandering anyone, I can 
say with truth that the Christians who served in the artillery of 



THE USE OF BHANG IS PROHIBITED 


7 


the Moguls retained of Christianity nothing but the mere name, 
were worse than the Mahomedans and Hindus, were devoid of 
the fear of God, had ten or twelve wives, were constantly drunk, 
had no occupation but gambling, and were eager to cheat whom- 
soever they could. For these reasons the Farangis (Franks) 
have not in the Mogul country the estimation they formerly had ; 
many from greed of a small pay abandon their faith and turn 
Mahomedans, as if it imported little for the salvation of one’s 
soul whether one is a Christian or a Mahomedan. 


Action against Bhang. 

So accustomed are the Mahomedans to intoxication that the 
poor people, who have not enough funds to procure spirits, 
invented another beverage, called in the language of the country 
bang {bhang). It is nothing else than leaves of dried hemp 
ground down, which intoxicate as soon as taken. Aurangzeb 
also wanted to suppress this disorder. He therefore appointed 
an official under the title of matucib {multasib), whose business 
it was to prevent the use of this beverage or of others similar to 
it. Not a day passed that on rising in the morning we did not 
hear the breaking by blows and strokes of the pots and pans 
in which these beverages are prepared. But, seeing that the 
ministers themselves also drank and loved to get drunk, the 
rigour of prohibition was lightened by degrees. 

Aurangzeb did another very ridiculous thing to show himself a 
scrupulous observer of the Faith. This was the issue of an order 
that no Mahomedan should wear a beard longer than four finger- 
breadths. N ow the Moguls are much concerned with the preserva- 
tion of their big beards, using for this many unguents. An official 
was appointed whose business it was, in company with his attend- 
ants and soldiers, to measure beards in the middle of the street, 
and, if necessary, dock them. This order was not carried out, 
except against ordinary people, the official not daring to meddle 
with the nobles or the soldiers for fear of receiving injury to 
himself. It was, however, amusing to see the official in charge 
of beards rushing hither and thither, laying hold of wretched 
men by the beard, in order to measure and cut off the excess, 



8 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


and clipping their moustaches to uncover the lips. This last 
was done so that, when pronouncing the name A14 {Allah, 
God), there might be no impediment to the sound ascending 
straight to heaven. It was equally quaint to see the soldiers 
and others covering their faces with their shawls when they 
beheld afar off the said official, for fear of some affront. 


The Burial of Music. 

Not resting content with the above orders, Aurangzeb took 
steps against the excessive number of musicians. In Hindustan 
both Moguls and Hindus are very fond of listening to songs 
and instrumental music. He therefore ordered the same official 
to stop music. If in any house or elsewhere he heard the sound 
of singing and instruments, he should forthwith hasten there 
and arrest as many as he could, breaking the instruments. 
Thus was caused a great destruction of musical instruments. 
Finding themselves in this difficulty, their large earnings likely 
to cease, without there being any other mode of seeking a liveli- 
hood, the musicians took counsel together and tried to appease 
the king [ 5 ] in the following way : ^ About one thousand of them 
assembled on a Friday when Aurangxeb was going to the 
niosque. They came out with over twenty highly-ornamented 
biers, as is the custom of the country, crying aloud with great 
grief and many signs of feeling, as if they were escorting to the 
grave soine distinguished defunct. From afar Aurangzeb saw 
this multitude and heard their great weeping and lamentation, 
and, wondering, sent to know the cause of so much sorrow. 
The musicians redoubled their outcry and their tears, fancying 
the king would take compassion upon them. Lamenting, they 
replied with sobs that the king’s orders had killed Music, there- 
fore they were bearing her to the grave. Report was made to 
the king, who quite calmly remarked that they should pray for 
the soul of Music, and see that she was thoroughly well buried. 
In spite ^ this, the nobles did not cease to listen to songs in 
secre . is strictness was enforced in the principal cities. 

“• .h. 



MUSIC AND DANCING ABOLISHED 


9 


Dancing-Women forced to Marry. 

In the reign of Shahjahan female dancers and public women 
enjoyed great liberty, as I have said, and were found in great 
numbers in the cities. For a time, at the beginning of his 
reign, Aurangzeb said nothing, but afterwards he ordered that 
they must either marry or clear out of the realm. This was the 
cause that the palaces and great enclosures where they dwelt 
went to ruin little by little; for some of them maurried and 
others went away, or, at least, concealed themselves. 

Of the Class of Elephant- Drivers. 

But from the first days of his reign there was no attempt to 
disguise his intention of correcting the insolence of the elephant- 
drivers. These men bring daily some highly-decorated elephants 
to court for parade, and others to fight together, as is the 
custom in the Mogul country. Sometimes they cause the 
elephants to be enraged, when they rush through the city 
killing people and destroying shops and bazars. First and 
foremost they attack the shops of those to whom they are ill- 
affected, and cause the destruction of all their contents. 

Aurangzeb made inquiries from the elephant-drivers whether 
perchance the elephants became savage of themselves, or 
whether they were made mad. Thinking they would please 
the king, and he would raise their pay, the drivers replied that 
they made the elephants mad themselves, giving them certain 
drugs for the purpose. The king then ordained that a writing 
should be demanded from each driver, in which he bound him- 
self to pay with his own life any deaths [6] caused by his 
elephant, and from his pay reimburse any damage done in the 
city. In this way he hindered the great damage they used to 
cause ; and although in his reign there were always parades, 
the harm done was very small. I say there were few disasters, 
for it is almost impossible to prevent any injury being done by 
elephants, since sometimes they turn mad all of a sudden, 
through reasons hardly to be imagined, as I shall state in 
Part III. when talking of elephants (III. 19-21, 144-149). 

But here it is fitting to relate how one day Aurangzeb ordered 



10 OF KING AVRANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDOSTAN 


to be brought before him all the elephants of Shahjahan, more 
than three thousand in number, of which the principal ones 
were decked out with gold and silver, and bore housings of 
brocade. On the first day they wished to produce the captain 
of all the elephants, an animal of wonderful size, 12 cubits in 
height, and highly esteemed by Shahjahan ; its name was Calec- 
dad (Kialiq-dad) — that is to say, ‘ Given by the Creator.’ But, 
for all the drivers could do, they could not succeed in making 
him enter the fortress. Thus they were forced to leave him behind 
and take the others to the ro5fal presence. On arriving there, 
according to signs from the drivers, the elephants either raised 
their trunks as a mark of respect, or went down on their knees. 

Aurangzeb was told that the elephant Khaliq-dad would not 
enter the fortress. He informed the drivers that he would not 
hear of any objection and they must bring the said elephant to his 
presence, unless they wanted to be turned out of the service and 
beaten. Frightened at such a threat, the drivers left the elephant 
three days without food or drink, expecting to force him through 
hunger and thirst to do the king’s pleasure. After three days 
they decorated the streets with green branches and sugar-cane, 
brought out the elephant, and got it into the fortress. Pleased 
at this, Aurangzeb then hastened to see this bold an imal 
standing in the space called Amcas CJiift-KJidss) . where public 
audiences were given. 

When the driver on the elephant was aware of the royal 
presence, he gave the usual signal to the animal, and he made 
his obeisance. Then, recollecting that he had been brought to 
the place by deceptions and against his will, the elephant began 
suddenly to trumpet, and flinging himself on the female elephants 
who accompanied him, he pushed them aside with his trunk, 
and, turning round, ran off with great fury. He knocked down 
everything in his way, and threatened everyone who appeared 
before him. In this manner the whole court was thrown into 
confusion. In trying to make his way out of the fortress, he 
came across a^ fine elephant made in masonry, which stood at 
the gate.^ Thinking it was a real elephant coming [7] to bar 

* See Bernier, 256, 257, and Mr. Constable’s note, where, relying on Mr. H. G. 
Keene’s 'Handbook to DilhI,’ he states that one stone elephant is in the pubUc 



ELEPHANT DRIVERS AND MENDICANTS 


II 


his exit, he fell upon it and destroyed it before he left the fort. 
Aurangzeb, as a follower of the Quran, ordered the other 
elephant opposite this one to be also knocked down. Upon 
them were two figures of Jamal (Jai Mall) and Fata (Path), who 
bravely defended the fortress of Chitor against Akbar, as I have 
said before (I. 77-82). 

The elephant (Khaliq-dad) ran out into the great square. 
There it was a curious spectacle (though one to be enjoyed at a 
distance) to see the way in which he broke the palanquins, ran 
at other elephants, killed horses, and pursued men, who fled 
with cries and clamour, some without turban, some without 
shield, some without sword, some without bow. It was an 
astonishing thing to see. Relying on my horse, I put him at 
full gallop, turning my head from time to time. I felt sorry for 
the sufferers, but could not help laughing to see so many fleeing 
in all directions, their feet bare and in the greatest hurry. 

Learning what the elephant had done, Aurangzeb became 
distrustful of him, and ordered the unlucky animal to be sent to 
Agrah to be placed at the tomb of Taj Mahal within sight of his 
master’s palace. The king’s orders were carried out: the 
elephant was taken to the place assigned, where he remained 
nine years ; and on the day that Shahjahan died the elephant 
also expired, some other events also happening, as I shall relate 
(II. 94, 96). 


Of the Holy Mendicants. 

The greatest abuse there was, and still is, in the Mogul 
kingdom is due to the cheating and hypocrisy of the holy 
mendicants. These men call themselves Sahedes (Sayyid), 
descendants of Muhammad, and deceive the people with 
hypocrisy and pretended miracles, so that many resort to them 
as saints, either to ask for sons, or to obtain wives or husbands. 
Others go to secure, through their intercession, employment or 

gardens, but the other has disappeared. The two figures which rode on them 
are in the museum. According to the Homeward Mail of September 26, 1904. 
p. 1362, Lord Curzon has commissioned Mr. R. D. Mackenzie to produce two 
elephants and figures in black marble to be ‘placed, as before, at the Dihli Gate 
of the fort. 



12 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

places at court ; others, that some man or woman may fall in 
love with them; others, to win victory over their enemies 
or to gain success in business ; each man according to his need. 

No one goes to such-like men with empty hands, but always 
with something as an offering. Thus these holy men live in 
luxury. They know how to cover their impostures by decep- 
tion, and with the aid of the devil hold the people under their 
spells by written incantations and bonds. Above all, they have 
control of the women, who resort to them in large numbers. 
They know how to make use of their opportunities, sparing 
neither Mahomedan, Hindu, nor Christian women, if they are 
good-looking. In addition, they have numerous wives and 
slave girls in their houses, whom they send out at night in all 
directions [8] as pretended devotees to earn an illicit livelihood, 
or to act as go-betweens to bring to the house of their master 
any woman that he desires. This is done under a covering of 
religion. These women also serve to find out about those 
who come to ask for any favour, and whether or not they 
have obtained what they desired. This is done to obtain 
information beforehand. These women also serve to make 
excuses if any suppliants have not obtained their desires, or to 
persuade people that the holy man’s supplications are specially 
effective ; also to find out what is going on, and thus give their 
master occasion to reveal secrets, as is fitting to holy men who 
know hidden things. 

In fine, the devices are not to be counted of which they make 
use to establish the reputation of saints ; and if they perform 
any deed worthy of admiration, it is all the work of the devil. 
When they leave their houses they never go on foot, but in 
a carriage or on horseback, at the same time taking with them 
down to their scullion-boys, to demonstrate the number of their 
disciples and devotees. They carry themselves humbly, so that 
in the streets many passers-by, men and women, prostrate 
themselves on the ground and call to them with lifted hands, as 
if to a just and saintly man. On these occasions each prays for 
what he wants, whether health, or delivery from demons, call- 
ing out according to his necessity. But the hypocrite, with a 
severe mien, goes on his way, making signs with his hands as of 



PRETENDERS TO HOLINESS 


13 


one who gives good hope to all, and takes on himself to satisfy 
every one. 

Thus they return to their houses. These are sufficiently 
commodious, with a special apartment for the women and 
another for receiving visitors. Among others is a fairly hand- 
some room, where are drawers, such as worn by Mahomedan 
women, and a chemise, the whole placed upon a rope. If any 
Hindu woman turns up, after hearing her requests, should her face 
please him the make-believe saint retires as if going to prayers. 
Then, taking some provocative drug (of which they have no 
lack), he comes back and orders the woman to remove her 
shirt. Ordinarily they do this at once, out of the esteem in 
which they hold these accursed men, under the supposition that 
they are receiving a great favour. Promises are made of securing 
what they want. If at times a woman, being of an honourable 
degree, is hurt at such an extraordinary proposal put forward 
by the holy man, the latter falls into a rage, saying that she is 
a woman with an evil conscience, that he never told her to take 
off her shirt, but to bring the one hanging on the rope, in order 
to give her some letters or some other thing lying in the pocket 
thereof, as a means of obtaining her desire. Then he bundles 
her out with abuse, as if it had never entered his mind to do her 
any wrong. Thus the woman withdraws in great confusion, for 
two reasons : because she has put a wrong interpretation upon 
the words of the holy man, and because, through her own fault, 
she did not obtain the remedy she wanted [9] and hoped for. 
The same thing is done with Mahomedan and Christian women, 
who wear drawers. It is to this intent that they keep a shirt 
and a pair of drawers on a rope, in order to cover the equivocal 
proposals they make to women. 

It often happens that the woman who was scandalized the 
first time falls a second time into the trap, either through eager- 
ness to get rid of her trouble, or because of the devotee women. 
These go to the house of any woman who had left without con- 
senting to the perverted desires of the holy man. Opening a 
conversation, they dilate on the holiness of their master, and 
lead her to expect all sorts of benefits to be obtained by going 
to the holy man. 



14 OF KISG AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

I cannot write the filthiness of such men, and all I shall say 
will be very little, not to faU into the error spoken of by 
St. Paul: Corrumpunt boms mres eloquia prava.^ Still, the 
insolence and outrages of these deceivers are sufficiently ex- 
posed. There are numbers of them, also of women, who, 
under the name of sanctity, practise similar impostures. All 
the same, the populace in the Mogul realm, and also the nobles, 
retain great esteem for these people, sending them valuable 
presents ; even gardeners carry to them the best of their fruit 
and vegetables, and goat-herds their kids and milk. Thus do 
these villains lead a more luxurious life than any grandee, being 
at the same time obeyed by princes and governors. 

.^URANGZEB WREAKS VENGEANCE ON THE TWELVE HOLY 

Men of Bara who dwelt in Dihli. 

To this abuse Aurangzeb applied no remedy, being the com- 
panion of such men, a pretender and hypocrite like them, an 
inventor of miracles and deceits quite equal to any of theirs. 
Yet he resolved to take revenge upon twelve of them who lived in 
DilhI. They had prophesied to Dara that he would be emperor 
of the whole Mogul empire, and as absolute lord would triumph 
over all men ; for they would pray Muhammad with all their 
fervour to assist him, nor could the prophet fail to hear them. 

After he had arranged matters in the empire, Aurangzeb 
sent for these men. When they had all reached his presence, 
he made believe to appreciate highly the sanctity and good 
reputation they possessed. On this account he begged them to 
perform some miracle in his presence, so that he, too, might 
acquire reasons for becoming their disciple. If they did so, he 
would prove in what estimation the King of Hindustan held 
such holy men and friends of God. For this purpose he 
granted them three days in which to comply with the royal 
[lo] pleasure. 

On hearing this speech from Aurangzeb, the holy men were 
in a great quandary, recognising that now had gone by the time 
for playing jokes on simple people, because Aurangzeb was not 

* ‘ Be not deceived ; evil communications corrupt good manners ‘ (i Cor, 
33, A V.). 



CERTAIN HOLY MEN PUNISHED 


15 


a man of jests like Dara. Thus they were thrown into a state 
of much anxiety. Two of them, to cut the thing short, said at 
once to Aurangzeb that they were descendants of Sultan Maxac 
(Sultan-ul-musha,i^^), a famous saint of Balkh, and were 
thus venerated by the people as saints, although they knew 
themselves to be the greatest sinners in the world, and it was 
useless to look for miracles from them. Aurangzeb ignored 
this reply, and told them all that it was necessary for them 
within three days to perform some miracle in his presence, and 
thus sent them away. 

They came forth much cast down, and, according to the 
habits of these men, they had recourse to demons favourable to 
them, performing with this idea many sacrifices, so that at least 
in dreams they might prove to Aurangzeb that they were really 
saints ; thus the king would hold them to be of some repute. 
However, on the third day Aurangzeb sent for them. On their 
arrival in his presence he said to them in a severe tone that the 
time granted was already past ; that the matter in hand was 
for them to produce a miracle ; otherwise he would have them 
all flogged and send them in a body to be publicly disgraced. 
Thus would the people be undeceived who had so long been 
led astray by their impostures and hypocrisy. Being neither 
able to say anything nor perform a miracle, some were ordered 
to be banished, and others were sent prisoners to fortresses. 
He told them that when they showed him a miracle he would 
order their release. Sharply admonishing the two men from 
Bal]^, he ordered them to retire to their homes, and never 
again to lay claim to sanctity, else he would chastise them 
without fail. 

Aurangzeb discovers the Imposture of the Faqir who 
BURIED his Horse. 

The assumed devoutness of Aurangzeb served him to discover 
the imposture of a soldier. This man's horse had died, and 

^ Comparing this passage with Part III., 53, where the saint’s tomb is said to 
be at Dihli, I think the name must be meant for Sultan-ul-musha,i^, a title 
given to Nizam-ud-din Auliya (died at Dihli, 1325). But he was a native of 
Buda,un, and not of Bal^. 



i6 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

having no funds to buy another, he decided to bury the horse 
outside the city of Dihll, on a small eminence not far from the 
royal road to Labor. He took the garb of a faqlr, and pre- 
tended great devoutness, collecting offerings, which were never 
lacking, the Moguls having an easy method of devotion, con- 
sisting in visits to tombs great or small, in order to obtain what 
they are in need of. I have even seen the wives of Christians send 
their sons and grandsons, when they were unwell, in order to 
obtain benefit from these tombs by making the children touch 
them with their bodies. For all the preaching of the priests 
against this abuse, it has not been abandoned [ii] ; since the 
Christian women in India are more inclined to heathendom 
and superstition than to the true Faith or the recognised aids 
of holy Mother Church. 

Aurang2eb passed close to the aforesaid tomb, and seeing so 
much adornment, asked what saint was buried there. The faqlr 
replied that it was the tomb of Melecdinar (Malik Dinar). 
Aurangzeb began to think over this answer, and said he had 
never heard of such a saint. He should therefore like to see 
the body. He ordered the tomb to be opened, and in it w'as 
the skeleton of a horse. The king directed that everything 
round it should be destroyed, and after the faqlv had been 
flogged he was banished. Hereby arose great fame for 
Aurangzeb as being well acquainted with all the saints of 
the Mahomedans, and also a diviner of occult things. 

Mancebdares (Mansabdars). 

It was a custom introduced by Akbar, and maintained by his 
successors, to receive and to favour those who justly or un- 
justly were persecuted by the King of Persia, when they took 
to flight and sought the protection of the Mogul kings. They 
were granted pay suited to each man’s station, keeping as 
soldiers and officers those who were soldiers, as physicians 
those who were physicians, as doctors of the Law those learned 
in the Faith. Pay was given them as nian§abdan's — that is to 
say, as nobles. As these men were not of use to the Mogul, 
since the Moguls are of a different sect, and do not follow ‘All 
as do the Persians, they were sent to the province of Kashmir, 



ikr. ZAMAN, OR PAULO, THE CHRISTIAN 


17 


where they lived upon their allowances comfortably and with- 
out care. Since Mahomedans are subject to the same con- 
ditions as other men — namely, to come to the end of their life 
and die — when one of these dropped out, the others appro- 
priated the dead man’s allowances. 

Aurangzeb desired to remedy this abuse, and therefore 
ordered all the mansabddrs of Kashmir to attend at court. 
There were a great number of them. Among them I had the 
opportunity of making the acquaintance of Muhamedzama 
(Muhammad Zaman), a man of great intelligence, whom Shah 
‘Abbas, King of Persia, sent to Rome as a student early in his 
reign.i He had to learn how to answer our missionaries, who 
in Persia confounded the mtdlds and doctors of the Mahome- 
dan faith. This Muhammad Zaman, well acquainted with his 
own faith, by study came to know the Truth ; and instead of 
becoming more stubborn in the faith of Muhammad and of 
‘AH, he renounced it and turned Christian, and taking the 
name of Paul, called himself Paulo Zaman. He then went 
back to Persia. There the learned men of Persia became 
aware by their talk with him that he was more favourable to 
the Christians than the Mahomedans (although [12] he con- 
cealed his being a Christian). They began to speak against 

^ It is not clear which Shah ‘Abbas is intended ; the first reigned from 1587 to 
1629, the second from 1642 to 1667. I have been unable to find any confirmation 
of the presence of these students at Rome, either from Oriental or European 
sources. The date of the party sent in the time of the Sherleys, about 1606, 
seems too early. One of them became a Christian, and published a book under 
the name of Don John of Persia. Mr. A. G. Ellis suggests that Manucci’s 
Muhammad Zaman is possibly identical with the painter of that name, by whom 
there are three beautiful signed and dated pictures in a copy of Nizami’s 
* Khamsah.’ British Museum Oriental MS., No. 2265, fols. 203&, 2i3«, and 221b, 
The influence of European art is most unmistakable ; the date, however — 10S6 H. 
(1675-76) — is somewhat late to suit Manucci’s story {circa 1660). But the man 
7 nay have returned to Persia after the death (1667) of Shah ‘Abbas II. 

Sir Caspar P. Clarke, C.I.E., whose article in the Journal of hidian Art, 
vol. vii., October, 1896, No. 56, bears on the subject of Raphael’s influence on 
Persian art, tells me that when he was in Persia in 1874-76, the book illuminators 
had a tradition that twelve young Persians were sent in the time of Shah 'Abbas 
to study in Rome. Of the twelve, eight or nine only returned ; some died, and 
some, on becoming Christians, remciined in Europe. At Rome he was told that 
they lived in the Borgo. 


VOL. II. 


2 



i8 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


him, and fearing some harm, he fled from Persia and claimed 
protection from Shahjahan. He was given the pay of a 
mansabddr and sent to Kashmir to join the other Persians, 
On the occasion when they were sent for by Aurangzeb, he 
came to Dihli and made friends with the Christians, chiefly 
with Father Buzeo (Busee). They discussed theological 
questions, he having several Latin books ; yet, although he 
was, and declared himself to be, a Christian, his way of life 
differed in no respect from that followed by Mahomedans. 

Houses and Gardens. 

Having verified the existence of the mansabddn, Aurangzeb 
sent them back to Kashmir. He then issued orders that every- 
one in Hindustan who owned a house or a garden must produce 
his deeds. It was to see whether they all held under a royal 
firmao (Jarman, or rescript). For no one can hold any of these 
things without a confirmation and a grant in writing. Such 
Jarmans as it was necessary to admit he upheld; those that 
were forged were declared invalid. 

Spies. 

The best means that kings possess for the good regulation of 
their kingdom is through trusty spies. These report to the 
prince what goes on in the realm, chiefly amongst the officials. 
And with truth it maybe said that the Mogul country is behind 
none other in having that kind of person, from whom may be 
learnt all that passes. But throughout his reign Aurangzeb 
had such good spies that they knew (if it may be so said) even 
men’s very thoughts. Nor did anything go on anywhere in the 
realm, above all in the city of Dihll, without his being 
informed. 

^ In this way he learnt one night that the wife of Allahwirdi 
Khan, the man who made Shah Shuja' get down from his 
elephant at the battle of Kaj wah, had left her house. W ithout any 
delay he ordered the husband to take her back again. Through 
such spies he also learnt one night of the fall of an arch at a shop 
in the main street, under the ruins of which three faqlrs were 



AURANGZEB SCOLDS HIS FATHER 


19 


buried. At early dawn Aurangzeb rode out on his way to hunt, 
and seeing the fallen shop, stopped his elephant, and ordered 
them to dig out the buried faqirs. The nobles of the court were 
much astonished at such an order, not knowing that under- 
neath the ruins were some dead bodies. The order w'as carried 
out, and the dead faqlrs having been reached, were pulled out. 
They were buried [13] according to the king’s orders, and he 
remained on the spot until the corpses were recovered. He 
handed over some money to pay for the funeral. From this 
incident they began to talk of Aurangzeb as a saint, while all 
the people shouted with a loud voice : ‘ Long live our saintly 
king !’ Up to this time they style him ‘ Miraculous Saint,’ 
either through flattery, or because with his sorceries he has 
done such wonderful things. 


Dispute between Aurangzeb and his Father. 

Proud of administering imperial affairs, and correcting, as I 
have said, the abuses which had arisen in the kingdom through 
the neglect of his father Shahjahan, Aurangzeb was not content 
merely to do good work, but he strained his utmost to get 
himself praised by the nobles and his father discredited. He 
tried to lower Shahjahan’s reputation, and to take away his 
name in every way he could. 

In addition to this, in order to further enrage the old man 
and make his imprisonment weigh on him more heavily, he 
several times wrote him letters, in which he set forth the 
measures being taken against previous abuses, and condemned 
every rule followed by Shahjahan in his government. He 
accused him of injustice to his people, of being negligent to his 
ministers, of being a corrupter of others’ wives, of licentiousness 
in holding a women’s fair, as a spendthrift in the expenses 
lavished upon indulging himself with women in the Hall of 
Mirrors, as I have already said (I. 130), and as a profligate by 
retaining in his palace a public dancer. On the other hand, he 
exalted il he did himself, glorifying his own works. Thus it may 
be said that Aurangzeb was a perfect disciple of the Pharisee, 
spoken of by our Saviour in the Gospel, who, instead of asking 

2 — 2 



20 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


mercy from God, did nothing but recite his own good works. 
Above all, he prided himself on the number of hours he spent 
every day in public audience, in the hearing of complaints, and 
in efforts to suppress the abuses existing in the empire. 

Nor did ShahjahiLn refrain from replying and excusing him- 
self to his son, pointing out to him, among other things, that 
a man who rebelled against his father, treated his brothers 
cruelly, and drank so much blood, not sparing even his own 
sons, would never be able to do useful work for others. As for 
praising himself on account of sitting many hours daily in 
audience, what more patent sign could there be that the 
kingdom was badly administered ? For when he (Shahjahan) 
directed the empire, officials walked so uprightly that, in spite 
of the daily beating of the big drum to call into his presence 
anyone wanting to complain of having received an injustice, 
months and months would pass without anyone coming to 
lodge a petition. 

This [14] quarrel between them lasted a long time, until 
Shahjahan in a rage wrote to Aurangxeb that he must remember 
that, after all, whatever he did proceeded from force belonging 
originally to the man from whom he derived his life. Besides the 
reasons given by Shahjahan in his own behalf, Mahabat 
governor of Kabul, did not fail to transmit to Aurangzeb a long 
argument, in which he described the qualities of Shahjahan and 
the deeds of Aurangzeb, a vigorous defence of the father against 
the son. Affected by these letters, Aurangzeb began to soften 
and show himself more compassionate to his father. By other 
letters he attempted to mollify him, sent him numerous presents, 
wrestlers to help to pass his time, players on instruments to 
alleviate the weariness of prison, and other playthings suitable 
to Sh 3 .hjahan’s habits while still free and emperor. 

After these endearments Aurangzeb wrote to his father asking 
for a gift of the jewels still under his control. Shahjahan 
replied with a stiff letter, wherein he said that if ever again he 
dared to talk of such things, he (Shahjahan) had by him a 
metal mortar and a pestle wherewith to reduce the jewels to 
powder; nor would Aurangzeb ever get the jewels until thus 
made useless. But in place of the jewels asked for he sent him 



RISE OF ASAD KB AN, WAZiR 


21 


the loyal Acetcan (Asad Khan)^, a person whom he strongly 
recommended, declaring that he might be more safely trusted 
than any other living being. Others had been rebels to the 
father, and thus, on the occasion arising, they would also rebel 
against the son. On the other hand, Asad Khan had never 
wished to forsake his king, and would without fail be loyal to 
the son under every circumstance. 

Aurangzeb accepted Asad ! 0 ^an as his servant, giving him 
some of the principal offices at court. Finally, upon the death 
of Ja'far Khan,^ he was made secretary {=wazir) of the whole 
empire, the which office Asad Stan continues to fill with great 
faithfulness until this very day, the loth of March, 1699. Never 
again did Aurangjzeb write to Shahjahan on the subject of the 
jewels, for which he had shown such cupidity. He sent an 
order to Foladcan (Fulad I^an), the treasurer, inquiring in 
wffiat space of time he could look through the jewels and make 
him a report of their value. Fulad l^an asked for time for 
this estimate, and six months afterwards replied that it would 
take fourteen years to go through them and find out the value. 
On receiving this answer, not wishing to waste so much time, 
Aurangzeb abandoned his design. 

The Rajahs come to Court. 

Whilst Aurangzeb was restoring order in the affairs of the 
kingdom, with a view to the peace and good government of his 
subjects, the Hindu princes came to court, some to secure his 
friendship and push their fortunes, others to obtain a position 
in his military forces [15] . Aurangzeb never failed to receive 
them, but he could not satisfy them all, it being a defect of our 
nature that everyone thinks he deserves more than he gets. 

^ Muhammad Ibrahim, son of Zu.lfiqar Khan. Qaramanlu, was the grandson, 
on his mother’s side, of Sadiq Khan. Mir Ba^shi. He was bom about 1035 H. 
(1625-26), and was created Asad Khan in the 27th year of Shahjahan, He became 
Aurangzeb’s deputy wasir in 1670, under Prince Mu'azzam, and full waslr in 1676, 
retaining the o£Sce to the end of the reign (1707). He died on the 25th Jamada II., 
1128 H. (June 18, 1716). 

2 Ja’far Khan was made wazlr in 1664, and died in 1670. He was the son of 
Sadiq Khan. Mir Bakhshi. and was also sister’s son and son-in-law of Asaf Khan. 
Yamin-ud-daulah (Beale, 188). 



22 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


Thus there were three of these princes who would not accept 
the offers the conqueror made to them, putting forward the 
excuse that they were princes of too high standing to accept the 
pay and rank assigned to them. Aurangzeb dissembled and 
made no demonstration of displeasure, whence the princes, sup- 
posing he had great need of them, became more proud and 
vain-glorious than ever, after having given such an answer. 
But three days afterwards he gave secret orders for their be- 
headal. Thus, not suspecting anything, they found themselves 
with the bare sword at their necks. Their excuses and the 
protestations they made were of no avail. They were all three 
beheaded, and their heads stuck upon the gateway of the royal 
fortress. By this act the other princes were alarmed, and 
accepted without a word the conditions laid down by Aurangzeb. 

He gave orders that with all haste thirty thousand horsemen 
and fifty field-pieces should be sent against Rajah Caran (Karan). 
The general in command was Razandascan (Ra'dandaz !OLan).i 
The rajah had declined to come to court after Aurangzeb’s 
coronation, and precise orders were given that they should 
bring back the recusant’s head. The matter became known to 
Rajah Jai Singh, who was related to the said Rajah Karan, and 
he requested the king to have a little patience, and he would 
take upon himself to make Rajah Karan come and pay his 
respects at court. 

To this intent he (Jai Singh) wrote to the said rajah that it 
was inadvisable to set up opposition to such a powerful and 
victorious monarch as Aurangzeb. Let him accept his advice, 
given as a relation and a friend, to come in at once. He should 
not take to arms, for Aurangzeb was powerful ; and if the king 
made w^ar on him, he (Jai Singh) could no longer be his friend 
nor help him in any way ; on the contrary, he should be forced 
to oppose him and join in the quarrel. 

Rajah Karan, one of the most powerful of the Hindus, 
replied to Rajah Jai Singh that he was grateful for his kindness, 

I can find no mention of Ra'dandaz Kh an in connection with Rao Karan, 
Bhurtiyah, of Bikaner. In Aurangzeb’s 3rd year (1660-61), Amir Khan, ^wafi, 
marched towards that country. Karan submitted, came to court, and was 
employed in the Dahhin. He died in 1077 H. (1666-67) (see ‘ Ma,asir-ul-Umara,’ 
ii 287, and 289, line 3). 



RAJAH KARA^\ BHURTIZAH 


but he could not act against the precedents set by his ancestors, 
none of whom had ever consented to appear at court ; thus he 
was resolved rather to lose his life a thousand times than dis- 
regard ancient custom. He therefore earnestly entreated him 
to settle the matter with the king, but in such a way that he 
should not be forced to go to court ; as for the rest, he would 
approve whatever he agreed to as mediator. Rajah Jai Singh 
made proposals to Aurangzeb, who, seeing the firmness of Rajah 
Karan, contented himself with passing over the matter, but 
ordered the rajah to proceed to the Dakhin against a Bijapur 
rebel called Xevagi (Shiva Jl), as to which campaign I will 
speak hereafter (II. 77). 

Rajah Karan complied, but more as if he were going for a 
stroll than on a warlike expedition, for he only marched at 
night, and never farther than a league [16], or thereabouts. 
Aurangzeb knew all, but thought fitting to conceal it, that 
others might not have occasion to rebel against him, for the 
reason that in the early part of his reign they saw he did not 
uphold the privileges of anyone. Thus do intelligent princes 
act at times with dissimulation, and content themselves with 
little, in order to make a future haul of much greater value. 
He who at the commencement of his authority shows himself 
timid in dealing with the great, sees reason afterwards to 
repent of his timidity when it is too late. This was the pro- 
cedure by w'hich Aurangzeb strengthened himself in his king- 
dom, displaying harshness, where he dared, as an example to 
others, and leaving alone the resolute who could injure his 
plans, as can be seen in the following case, although it appeared 
to be a dishonour to him. 

What happened to Nezabetcan (Najibat Kh,an). 

Among others who remained little satisfied with Aurangzeb 
was Najabat Khan,^ to whom he had promised high pay and 

1 We have spoken of Najabat Khan's career under Shahjahan in notes to 
I, 147, 149, In Aurangzeb’s ist year he fell into disgrace, but in 1070 H. 
(1659-60) he returned to Court, In 1073 H. {1662-63) was left with Jai Singh 
to guard the camp on the Chenab, while Aurangzeb visited Kashmir. In the 
same year he was made Governor of Malwah, and died there some time in 



24 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


rank should he ever become king, in reward for his conduct in 
the battle against Dara when he fought Rustam l^an, DakhinI, 
and Chhatar Sal Rae. This man, after the first compliments and 
rewards had been distributed, went no more to court. Aurangzeb 
had failed to grant the very great pay promised to him when he 
took Mir Jumlah, making him only a lord of four thousand 
horse instead of twelve thousand, as promised. Aurangzeb 
noticed that Najabat S^an did not come to court, and sent to 
him an officer holding the rank of one thousand horse with a 
message that he must appear. 

The officer went, and entering where Najabat Rhan was, sat 
himself down without ceremony.^ At this Najabat Rh a n was 
put out. However, he inquired civilly the cause of the visit. 
The officer replied that the king sent him to make him 
accept without demur the rank of four thousand horse. The 
hero retorted that he would not accept, because the king had 
promised to make him lord of twelve thousand horse. The 
messenger grew angry, and said contemptuously that the rank 
of four thousand horse was more than he deserved. So stung 
was he by this remark that Najabat ij^an drew his sword, and 
with one blow severed the messenger’s head firom his body, 
and ordered him to be flung by the feet into the street. 

When this was reported to Aurangzeb, he sent ten thousand 
horsemen with orders to produce the head of Najabat ij^an, 
killing everyone who should resist. But, aware of Najabat Khan’s 
courage, he being a man of much valour and of great strength, 
who with one arrow from his bow could transpierce two oxen, 
even when hitting them in the shoulder-blades ; and of his being 
related to many important men, whereby there would be great 
slaughter and much uproar [17] in the court ; Shaistah Rfisn 


1664) (see'Ma,a?ir.i-*Alamgiri,’ 32, 42, 47, 48, and 

ShahrOkh. of 

Bada^shan (d^ 1016 H.), son of M. Ibrahim, son of M Sulaiman. rankTcoo. 
5 1 000 suway (* Taii^-i-Muhammadi,’ year 1075 H.). 

41! T f* i in. 826, says the man so sent and killed was Mir 

^a.l-^, Ma-mori (Ma-mOr ^n). There is a separate biography of him in 
M.-Ul.u lu. 503 with another version of the story of his death, which appears 
DiS'”* ^ theAgharSbad (ShaiihmSr) camp near 



NAJABAT KSAN’S UNRULY CONDUCT 


25 


spoke to the king and succeeded in making Aurangzeb conceal 
his resentment. But Najabat Khan did not come to court, 
and he died in the year one thousand six hundred and sixty- 
one, two years after the above affair. After his death Aurangxeb 
rewarded his two sons, making them officers with considerable 
rank, assigning to the elder son the title of Sian ‘Alam— that is 
to say, ‘ Grandee of the World.’ 

Shaistah Khan sent against Shiva Jl. 

Aurangzeb was very liberal in making promises w'hen he 
wanted to gain his ends, at the same time having quite made 
up his mind not to keep his word. His maxim, as I said, was 
to make use of oaths only to deceive, the truth of which the 
reader will gather from my history. Thus he broke his word 
to Shiva Ji, but it cost him dear. For up to this day on which 
I write (? 1699) he has quite as much as he can manage to 
struggle \vith this single prince. At the end of this book can 
be seen the acts of Shiva JI and the difficulties which were 
encountered by this great and powerful king on his account. 
We come now to the beginning of the wars between Shiva Ji 
and the Mogul. 

Finding himself now fully established as king, Aurang^eb 
sent Shaistah ^Otan in fifty-nine (1659) ^ with a powerful army 
to compel Shiva Ji to pay tribute, and prohibit him from 
collecting the revenues conceded to him when the rising 
against ShShjahan was begun. He treated as of no account 
the deed on a plate of copper (‘gold’ in the French text) 
which he had given to him (Shiva Ji), whereon was written 
the grant, as I stated at the end of Part I. (I. 171). Orders 
were also given to Shaistah Khan to threaten the Kings of Bij apur 
and Gulkandah, and make them agree to higher tribute. Those 
pitiful and timorous creatures did as requested by Aurangzeb. 
But Shiva Ji did not act thus ; he took up arms, and, attacking 
first in one direction and then in another, plundered the Mogul 
country and Bij apur, taking many fortresses and territories. 

1 The year 1659 seems correct; according to the ‘ Ma,asir-ul-Umara,* ii. 690, 
Shaistah ]^an reached the Dakhin before Jamada 1 , 1070 H. (January, 1660). 



26 OF KI^^G AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


Descent of Shiva Ji. 

Maybe the reader would like to know who this Shiva Ji was, 
and to comply with such a reasonable wish I will place here 
what I meant to insert elsewhere, in order to make a continuous 
storj’ of the events in the early part of Aurangzeb’s reign. For 
he w’ho writes to please others must satisfy those others’ will, 
while ever keeping close to historical verity. 

Shiva Ji — that is to say, ‘Lord One-and-a-quarter ’ ^ — the 
first of his family, was the bastard son of a Hindu king, of 
whom [i8] I spoke. His mother was the daughter of a car- 
penter. When this bastard had grown up, he claimed the 
crown upon the death of his father, although he had a brother 
who was legitimate. As the officers and nobles refused their 
allegiance, he was forced to flee and apply to the King of 
Bijapur, who was then powerful. The Bijapur king took him 
into his service, and gave him some provinces near the town of 
Chavel (Chaul),® as far as Camba (Cambay, Kambhayat), near 
the lands of the Portuguese towards Bassaim (Bassein) and 
Bombaim (Bombay). 

He served Bijapur loyally, and so also did his son Xagi 
(Shah Ji) ; but not so Xevagi (Shiva Ji), son of Shah Ji. The 
latter lived in the family territory while his father was at the court, 
and began to realize money without sending any to his father. 
Next he began to enlist men and attack the lands of Bijapur in 
all directions, giving no heed either to his father or the king. 
The latter complained to Shah Ji of Shiva Ji’s temerity, and 
Shah Ji replied that his majesty might act as he pleased. His 
son neither obeyed him nor remitted to him the revenues of 
their lands, and had already declared himself a rebel to the 
crown. 

A- wrong etymology ; £roni one and a (Quarter, The name is obviously 

that of the HindQ god Shiva, meaning ‘ auspicious,’ ■ lucky,’ • fortunate.’ followed 
by the honorific affix ‘Ji.’ The person here meant is not the celebrated 
Shiva JS, but his grandfather, whose real name was MallO Ji (see Grant-Duff 
• Mahrattas,’ 40). 

2 Chawal, a town and seaport, 20 miles south of Bombay, lat. 18° 34', 
long. 72° 59' : Cambay (Kambhsyat), 230 miles north of the same city, lat. 22° i8'l 
long. 72° 39' ; Bassain, 28 miles north of the same city, lat. 19° 20', long. 72“ 52'.' 



SHIVA JI AND AFZAL KHAN, BljAPURI 


27 


The King of BTjapur wrote to Shiva JI that his unruly con- 
duct was not the way to respond to the benefits that had been 
conferred on his grandfather, and were still being shown to his 
father and himself. He should desist from such courses and 
repair to the court, where an office would be given him. Shiva 
Ji took no notice of this letter, and continued his plundering 
more vigorously than before, so that the King of BTjapur, finding 
himself endangered because Shiva JI had taken one of his for- 
tresses, determined to send against him a famous general called 
Afzel Can (Afzal S^an). This man pursued Shiva JI so per- 
sistently that the rebel was forced to take refuge in the 
mountains. Finding himself powerless for further resistance, 
he resorted to a trick, writing to Afzal Khan a letter, in which 
he made excuses, confessed himself a criminal and culprit, and 
asked the general to intercede for him. He besought pardon 
from the king. 

Afzal Khan replied that he might come in without any hesita- 
tion, that he would obtain his pardon from the king, and would 
be always his protector. But he must appear without delay 
to obviate the receipt of fresh orders from the king, enjoining 
further exertions to defeat and capture him. It would be 
better for himself and for his men to come to a friendly agree- 
ment than to allow any opening for the horrors of war. In 
any case, however, he (Shiva JI) could not resist long, the king 
being so much the more powerful. 

Shiva JI consented to appear before Afzal Khan, but begged 
him to come with only five persons to a spot at a distance from 
the camp, while on his side he (Shiva Jl) would bring no more 
than five men. He would fall at his feet and throw himself 
upon his mercy. Delighted at finding that Shiva JI meant to 
give himself up, Afzal Khan accepted his proposals. At a dis- 
tance from the camp he caused to be made ready a splendid 
tent with carpets for the reception of Shiva Jl, who on his 
side [19] did not neglect to send messages, imploring Afzal 
Khan’s friendship and assurances of the petitioners being 
received with affection. 

Meanwhile he (Shiva Ji) so disposed his army for the carry- 
ing out of his plot that when he gave the agreed signal, all of 



28 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

them, spurring on their horses, could gallop straight into the 
royal camp. Shiva JI got ready a small and very sharp lancet, 
which at the top was formed into the shape of a ring with 
a projecting stone. Pushing a finger into the ring, the lancet 
was concealed under cover of the hand. His five companions 
received orders that when he embraced the general, they should 
silently seize their swords, and fall each upon one particular 
enemy. All the five men with their leader, Shiva JI, wore 
coats of mail beneath their clothes. This precaution was not 
adopted by Afzal Hian and his five men, nor did they suspect 
the treachery about to be practised on them. 

Afeal ]San was in his tent between the two armies, waiting 
with great anxiety for the arrival of Shiva JI, and building, I 
fancy, many castles in the air. Then Shiva JI appeared with his 
five men, all on horseback. At some distance from the tent they 
descended from their horses. Shiva JI began to advance, bowing 
again and again, as if he was petitioning for a good reception and 
was in a state of apprehension. Afzal i^an beckoned to him with 
his hands that he might approach without fear ; and as Shiva Jl 
drew near, Afzal l^an raised his arms as if to embrace him. 
Shiva JI’s hands came round him lower down, Afeal 'KT ro 
being a tall man and very corpulent ; then swiftly and forcibly 
he rent open Afzal ;&an’s abdomen from the left to the right 
side, so that the bowels protruded. The other five men laid 
hold of their swords and cut to pieces Afzal lean’s companions. 
The appointed signal was given, and Shiva Ji’s soldiers arriving, 
fell upon the army of Afzal :^an, and being taken unawares, it 
could not resist the impetus of Shiva Jl, more especially now 
its general was gone. Everything was thrown into confusion, 
and the men took to flight. But Shiva Ji had adopted 
measures by which the passes into the hills were already 
occupied by his soldiers, and thus the whole of the royal 
army was disposed of. He became more powerful ever 
through the plunder in horses, arms, and money that he 
acquired. 

Froni this time Shiva Jl began to plunder the territories of the 
Mogul in addition to those of Bijapur. He took various strong- 
holds, more frequently by deceit than by force of arms. He ravaged 



MURDER OF AFZAL KHAS 


29 


towns and cities, above all Surat, ^ where he remained seven days 
with seven thousand horsemen, gathering all that there was of 
gold and silver in that famous port. It was through the reputa- 
tion thus acquired by Shiva Jl as a valiant and quick-witted man 
that Aurangzeb, when viceroy in the Dakhin, conceded to him 
the lands of which I have already spoken (I. 171), so as to 
make use of him in case of necessity. Aurangzeb’s object was 
to have someone on his side in case he failed in his attempt to 
become king, and he knew how defensible Shiva Jl’s territories 
were, owing to their situation among [20] hills- 

Aurangzeb’s Tutor. 

Among the others who hastened to court after Aurangzeb 
had been crowned as king was one Melecsale (Malik Salih), ^ a 
former tutor of Aurangzeb. This man lived in Kabul on the 
allowance made him by Shahjahan. He waited a little while 
before he appeared to present his congratulations to his pupil. 
He knew that at the beginning of a reign it was necessary to 
leave time for the arrangement of more important matters, and 
that when Aurangzeb was able to rest from his greater anxieties, 
he would receive him the more willingly and reward him 
more bountifully for the fatigues which the teachers of young 
princes usually have to undergo. Thus Mulla Salih left his 
home with the prospect of some great reward. Arraying him- 
self in even greater solemnity than is customary to doctors of 
the Mahomedan faith, he pursued his route until he arrived 
at Dihll. 

There he began by paying his court to the amaraos {imiara, 
nobles), invoking each one’s aid in working for his interest, so 
that the king might receive him with greater affection, and 
endow him the more liberally. Aurangzeb was told of his 
teacher’s arrival, but made no sign, so that in the interval he 
might prepare himself for a talk with him, through which 
he might instruct the teachers of his own sons in the course to 

1 Surat was taken on January 5, 1664 (? O.S.). Shiva Ji was there six days 
(Grant-Duff, ‘ Mahrattas,’ 89, and * Bombay Gazetteer/ ii. [Surat] 89). 

^ Malec is probably intended for Mulla (a learned man), and not for Malik 
(princeling, petty king). Further on Malec is rendered by Doiitvo (doctor). 



30 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


be adopted in the bringing up of princes. The emperor was of 
opinion that Shahjahan had not provided him with a good 
teacher. 

Thus three months elapsed before Mulla Salih was able to see 
the face of his pupil, and he was forced to have recourse to 
Roshan Ara Begam’s intercession, and yet the sole result 
was to be put to shame before all the nobles. The day 
arrived on which Mulla §alih had to appear at the Audience. 
Aurangzeb ordered the chief nobles, the men learned in the law, 
and the teachers of his sons to be present at the ceremony. 
Highly delighted at this news, Mulla Sali^ came to court 
hoping for some great reward. He came in with the accustomed 
bows, whereupon the king, leaving him no time to open his 
mouth, began thus : 

‘ Mulla Ji ! Master Doctor ! The first object of a king 
or a prince of this world who has sons ought to be to seek 
out a nurse of good constitution without disease, who, giving 
the child to suck, should strengthen its feeble limbs. The 
child, sharing with her milk its nurse’s health, will acquire, 
following the royal expectations, the vigour necessary for a good 
ruler of the people. But here the anxieties of a king are not at 
an end; on the contrary, if he has great trouble in choosing a 
wet-nurse, he must be still more careful in choosing an instructor 
to teach the young prince, for [21] as the health of the 
depends upon the milk, so upon good teaching depends the life 
of the mind, a thing more to be desired than bodily existence. 
This is the reason why all emperors, kings, and princes of 
intelligence have always done their best to obtain good teachers 
for their sons, knowing well, as they do, that for want of such 
spiritual milk the son will not retain the paternal qualities, nor 
be so successful as hoped for by his people. It was thus that 
Philip, King of Macedonia, urgently entreated the great 
Aristotle to submit to a life at court and take charge of his son 
Alexander, who promised to be of good judgment. He so 
profited by his master’s lessons that he ended in being the 
greatest warrior spoken of in history. 

‘ It IS possible for a prince when grown up to forget the good 
lessons received in his early days, and give himself up to the 



HOW TO EDUCATE A KING 


3 ^ 


vices common to mankind But it is impossible that an un- 
trained child should grow up to be a man of virtue. This is 
why Aristotle declared that children owed as much to their 
teachers as to their parents ; the latter give physical, the 
former spiritual, life. But, all things considered, I hold pupils 
to be more indebted to their teachers than to their parents, the 
reason being that corporeal life without the life of the mind is of 
no value; and it would be better for anyone not to have 
material life if deprived of spiritual life. These are the virtues 
that arise from sound teaching, and without them no one can 
fitly reign over a kingdom. 

‘ It was for this reason that the great Solomon, in addition to 
the lessons learnt from his father, did not ask God for riches or 
power, but for knowledge and prudence whereby to rule properly. 
He knew it was better not to be a king at all than to be one 
void of knowledge. Without knowledge no justice can be dealt 
out, nor without equity is there any peace for a subject people. 
Knowledge forms the trusty scales of reason, is the cure of 
frowardness, the stay of the aggrieved, the refuge of the 
oppressed, and a terror to them that do evil. Prudence is the 
harmonizer and the conscience of the body politic and the 
republic, a light in a dark place, a sun amidst the stars. 
Blessed is that prince who finds a learned man, who, with 
affection and fidelity, imparts to him the virtues and good 
qualities fitting for a king. Nor can I do other than rejoice at 
finding in our annals and elsew^here in the world’s chronicles a 
number of princes, kings, and monarchs who met with this good 
fortune. 

‘ But at the same time, what can I do but weep when I 
remember that in my tender age I fell into your hands, Doctor 
Salih, who, paying no need to the good disposition God had 
given me, made me waste my time by teaching me trivialities 
and things that did not concern me — or, at least, things that 
could only serve me as ornaments in conversing wnth learned 
men — overlooking meanwhile the teaching of the things neces- 
sary to a prince. For example, did you tell me about the 
monarchies of the world — that is to say [22], the Assyrians, 
the Persians, the Scythians, who formerly were clad in skins, 



32 


OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

dwelt among mountains, and were few in number, but nowa- 
days, under the name of Turks, dominate and hold with a 
heavy hand the reins over the whole of Asia and Africa? 
When was it that you related to me the valour and ingenuity of 
the European Franks, who wdth small means met and repelled 
the forces of the powerful Ottoman ? At the least, you ought 
to have spoken to me of the riches and majesty of China. All 
these things you withheld. 

‘ It is possible that your knowledge did not extend beyond 
the king and realm of Hindustan, for you taught me there were 
no other kings in the world, that the others were petty prince- 
lings of no weight. You told me nothing about their armies, 
wars, customs, religions, government, and business. Hardly 
did I learn from you the names of my ancestors, of the renowned 
Taimur-i-lang and the bellicose Babar, the founders of this 
empire. You made no attempt to give me the story of their lives, 
t he ir wonderful conquests, their mode of warfare, of ordering 
their armies, of commanding their soldiers. All your purpose 
and effort was to turn me into a good Arab, making me waste 
my time over a language which demands from ten to twelve j^ears 
to obtain a little proficiency in it. Meanwhile my youth and 
my capacity for lofty things had vanished. 

‘Who instructed you to educate a royal prince in that 
man ner ? Would it not have been better to teach me in my 
mother-tongue what you taught me in Arabic ? Leaving that 
out of account, was it not your duty to teach me the customs 
of the Mogul princes, to inform me that one day I should be 
forced to take the field, sword in hand, against my brothers, if 
not to gain a crown, at least to defend my life ? Thus you should 
have told me how to gain friends, to take or besiege fortresses, 
and fight pitched battles. These are the things you ought to 
have taught me, but you overlooked the whole of them, I know 
not why, nor know I whether to charge it to the negligence of 
my father or to your ignorance. 

‘ If I am under obligations to anyone, I owe thanks to She^ 
Mir, whom I might well call my tutor ; for he taught me the 
art of war — a man who gave even his life for love of me at the 
battle against Dara near Ajmer. If you did not know the 



AND HOW NOT TO EDUCATE A KING 


33 


military art, you might at least have taught me the methods of 
governing the people when my father should send me to rule in 
some province. Thus you might have laid down rules for the 
equal administration of justice, the way of capturing a people’s 
love, under what circumstances I should be severe, when to 
humour the nobles in their unruliness and the ministers in 
their misdeeds, and the [23] method of remedying such irregu- 
larities. All this you ought to have taught me, but not a word 
did you breathe to me of such things. 

‘ Thus I owe you nothing, for you misled me. Go and enjoy 
what my father has given you, and never again appear in my 
presence ; for you made me waste a great deal of time, and by 
your fault I have also wasted this day.* 

Saying this, Aurangzeb retired, leaving the nobles in wonder- 
ment at such a speech, which perplexed much the learned 
class, especially those who were teachers of the king’s sons and 
were present. Mulla Salih left the court much disillusioned, 
his head hanging, and forthwith disappeared, nothing more 
being heard of him. 

AmTr I^an sent to Kabul. 

After this speech, Aurangzeb, to show his gratitude to She^ 
Mir, his teacher, who had given up his life for love of him at 
Ajmer, as I have stated in my First Part (I. 241), sent AmTr 
!]^an^ as governor of Kabul in place of Mahabat Hban. The 
latter had not adopted Aurangzeb’s side at the time of rebellion, 
and had remained true to Shahjahan. But this change of 
governors was effected not so much to please Amir !^an as 
from Aurangzeb’s fear of Mahabat !|^an. That noble was 
friendly with the independent Pathans, and thus might make 
an attempt against him (Aurangzeb) in favour of Shahjahan. 
This is why at the very beginning of his reign he cajoled the 
said Mahabat !^an by several friendly letters until the time 

1 Sayyid Mir, entitled Amir Eban (son of Mir Muhammad Khan, Khwafij, died 
27th Rabr II.. 1081 H. (September 13. 1670). He was the brother of Shekh 
Mir, who died in 1069 H. (1659) (' Tari^-i-Muhammadi,* year loSi). See also 
Sayyid Amir Khan, ^wafi, ‘ M.-ul-U.,’ ii. 476, and She^ Mir, ibid,, ii. 668. 
For Mahabat Khan II. (Lahrasp), see ibid,, iii. 590. He died 10S5 H. {1674-75). 

VOL.' II. 3 



34 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


came for ejecting him. The king had suppressed the lengthy 
letter written against him by Mahabat !|^an at the time when 
father and son were exchanging controversial letters touching 
the mode of government. 

On his arrival at Kabul, ^ Amir l^an presented Aurangzeb’s 
letter to Mahabat l^an, whereby he was recalled to court. He 
w’as thence to proceed as governor of Gujarat. Without a 
word Mahabat ^an left Kabul, came to court, afterwards 
moving on to Gujarat, and at the proper place I will speak of his 
doings [II. 79]. Meanwhile he managed to insinuate pleasantly 
to Aurangzeb that he ought not to discharge old soldiers as he 
was doing — that is, he had his beard shaved and went thus 
ostentatiously to court. The king asked in wonder what ha d 
made him shave. Mahabat !&an replied that as, in accord- 
ance with His Majesty’s orders, old soldiers were being dis- 
missed, he had shaved off his beard, so as not to be discharged 
like the rest, being desirous of remaining in the service of such 
a great monarch. Aurangzeb divined the intention of Mahabat 
Khan, and, laughing, gave fresh orders to retain all the old 
soldiers, and restored the pay of the veterans who had already 
been turned out [24]. 


Roshan Ara asks for the Palace of Begam Sshib. 

I stated in the First Part of my history (I. 149) that Begam 
Sahib had a palace outside the fortress, where she lived when 
Shahjahan was emperor and dwelt at Dihli. Roshan Ara 
Begam was anxious to get similar liberty and enjoyment. 
Relying upon the love and gratitude her brother Aurangzeb 
had to her, she made petition to him for a grant of the said 
palace, so that she might live outside the fortress and pass her 
days as she pleased. Aurangzeb knew well the meaning of the 
request, but intentionally concealed that fact, and replied to 
her ; ‘ Roshan Ara Begam, my beloved sister ! Most gladly 

» Amir fail’s appointment was made about the 4th Rabi' II. 1072 H. 

^ Ma,asir-i-‘AlamgIrI,’ 38). Mahabat Khan was sent on the 
{Mi 41) * replace Rajah Jaswant Singh in Gujarat 



ROSHAK ARl BEGAM’S DELIKQUEXCIES 


35 


would I concede what you ask, but my love to you will not 
allow me to live deprived of your society; and it being the 
custom for the king’s daughters not to live outside their father’s 
palace, my daughters resent being deprived of you. Thus it is 
fitting, for many reasons, that you live with them and train them 
in the habits of royal princesses. By any chance, is there any- 
thing deficient in the palace where you reside ? Or have you 
less state than was maintained by your sister, Begam Sahib ? 
You know well that all my state and the wealth of the Moguls 
are yours.’ 

These and other reports about the royal palace were given to 
me by a Portuguese woman called Thomazia Martins, who, on 
the fall of Hugli, spoken of in Part I. (p. 121), was carried off 
captive by the Mahomedans. She had charge of the royal 
table, and was much liked by Roshan Ara Begam. According 
to the practice of soldiers’ wives living in the royal palace, she 
was allowed once a month to stay seven days in her husband’s 
house. At those periods, through the affection she had for me, 
in addition to various presents that she made to me, she in- 
formed me of what passed inside the palace. 

A few months afterwards the under-eunuchs reported to the 
head eunuch of the king how two men had entered the apart- 
ments of Roshan Ara Begam. This being an important 
matter, the eunuch dissembled, and, without any warning, 
posted faithful watchers to ascertain the truth. In a few days 
these guards seized in the garden two youths, whom Roshan 
Ara Begam had just dismissed after they had complied with 
her will. They were taken off to the king, who, at once under- 
standing why they had gone there, gave an order, without any 
inquiry, that the prisoners must go out by the way they came 
in. One said he entered by the door, and by the door he was 
allowed to go out. The other was so incautious as to say that 
he had climbed over the garden wall. The head eunuch, 
whose [25] only anxiety was to wreak vengeance for having 
been convicted of carelessness, had him thrown over the 
garden wall, and he was killed. Aurangzeb was much disturbed 
at the eunuch’s act, because he held it expedient to conceal a 
matter so greatly affecting the good name of the princess. 

3—2 



36 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

Therefore the eunuch was removed from office for some days, 
the reason given being that he was too severe to the servants 
working in the palace. Thus the eunuch had to take upon 
him the sins of Roshan Ara Begam, but the princess began to 
lose some of the esteem that Aurangzeb had for her, and after 
a little time she came to lose her life from similar causes, as I 
shall state in the proper place (II. 145)- 


Ambassadors of Bal^.^ 

When the news reached Bal^ how Aurangzeb, having 
destroyed his brothers, had crowned himself King of Hindustan, 
the King of Bal^ brought to mind the bravery of the new 
monarch in his youth, when Shahjahan sent him as prince to 
fight him. He dreaded that, having now become king, with 
so much wealth and so many valiant and victorious soldiers, 
he might take the route of Bal^, and renew the former wars. 
He therefore sent ambassadors to offer him presents, and 
establish a firm friendship and a sincere peace. 

Aurangzeb was well aware of the reasons for which the King 
of Balkh had decided to send this embassy, and although he 
still treasured in his mind the design of conquering that land, 
he feared that the said king might ally himself to others and 
cause him trouble thus early in his reign. He knew, also, that 
it was almost impossible to send an army to conquer a kingdom 
Ijnng amid such lofty mountains, in a climate so cold that 
the soldiers of Hindustan could not endure it. He therefore 
received the ambassadors with affection and goodwill,® on con- 
dition that they made obeisance, as usual in India, by putting 
the hand on the head and lowering it three times almost to the 
ground. The ambassadors agreed to the condition, and on 
entering into the royal presence they made obeisance as agreed 
upon, and when they wished to draw near, the second secretary, 

1 See Bernier’s account, ‘Travels,’ pp. 116-123. 

2 The Bal^ embassy arrived some time in the fourth year, 1071-72 H. (April 29, 
1661, to April 19, 1662). Ibrahim Beg, the envoy of Suhban Quli Kha n, King of 
Bal^, brought a letter and gifts from Turan. He fell ill and died in a few days 
(‘Ma,asir-i-*Alamgiri,’ p. 34). 



XIII. Sultan Muhammad, Eldest Son of Alrangzeb. 


Voi, II. 


To face page 36 





PRESENTS FROM BALKH 


37 


called Molfed can (Multafat Khan),^ stopped them, and, taking 
the letters from their hands, presented them to the king, by 
whose orders they were made over to Jafar can (Ja'far Khan),- 
the chief secretary, and he should, in due course, prepare a 
reply. Meanwhile, he ordered each man to be invested with 
sarapa (robes of honour), and directed that their offerings 
should be produced. 

The first of these consisted of nine boxes of lapis-laziiliy a 
marvellous thing, all full of musk, and of a kind of tuber of 
violet colour, which Arabs and Persians call zednav.^ It is a 
rare article, and most medicinal. In others was a certain kind of 
fish that physicians call instinco^ [26] of Mecca, which are found 

^ Multafat Klian (Mir Ibrahim Husain) was the second son of Asalat Khan. 
Mir Ba^shi. He was Bakhshi of the Aliadis, and in the sixth year became 
A^tah Begi, or Master of the Horse, in succession to his brother, Iftikhar 
Khan. He died 'of wounds on the 19th Jamada II., 1092 H. (July 6, 1681) 

M.-ul-U.,’ iii. 611). 

2 For Ja‘far Khan, see note to Part I., 12 1, 

^ Zeduar (Yule, second edition, 979, under Zedoary), an aromatic medicinal 
root; in Arabic jadwar, in Persian zadwdr. In Persia it is looked on as a 
panacea, and is sold for four times its weight of pure gold (J. L Schlimmer, 
‘ Terminologie Pharmaceutique Fran§aise-persane, ’ p. 335; Tihran. 1S74). See 
also G. Watt, ‘Dictionary of Economic Products of India,’ 1889, vol. i, 84, 
89, S.V. Aconitum; w, under Zedoary, black ; andii. 655, 656, 658, 665, greyish black, 
but when cut of a greyish orange. Also in ‘Notices et Extraits,’ vol. xxiii., 
Ibn-el-Beithar, * Traite des Simples,’ translated by L. Leclerc, p 347. 

Iftstinco; in the French text mstinct. I am indebted to Mr. A. G. Ellis for 
the recognition of this obscure word. It is saqanqTir (Arabic), with the article 
prefixed — that is, as-saqanqur, Schlimmer, in the work just quoted, p. 337, 
defines it as the Lacevta scincus, or Scums officinalis — Crocodile terrestre, sqinqiie 
(French) ; shink, skink (English) ; Stink, Eidechse (German). I am also indebted 
to Mr. Ellis for the following references : * There are two kinds, Egyptian and 
Indian, the former found in the Gulf of Suez ; among other qualities, it increases 
sexual desire’ (A 1 Damiri, * Hayat-ul-haiwan,’ 2 vols., ii. 28). In ‘Alfaz 
Udwiyeh ’ of Nooreddeen M. Abdullah Sheerazy, translated by F. Gladwin, 
Calcutta, 1793, p. 141, it appears as Iss Kim Koor, the skink. There is a long 
article in Ibn-el-Beithar, * Traite des Simples,’ translated by L. Leclerc, ‘Notices 
et Extraits,’ vol. xxv., 1881, pp. 261-264. Richardson, ‘Dictionary,’ 705, says 
the word is from the Greek, and the thing is a species of newt or spawn of 
crocodile burrowing in the sand ; when held in the hand it is said to be 
stimulative of venery. Mr. D. Ferguson kindly refers me to an instance of its 
use given in D. Havart’s ‘Op en Ondergang van Cormandel,’ Deel 2, 21 1. 
Mirza Ahmad, Prime Minister of Gulkandah, caused to be brought from Egypt 
at great expense ‘ a certain kind of fish caught in the Nile. ’ 



38 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


in a certain stream of the said kingdom of Balkh. The pre- 
paration made from these is so pungent that one ounce of it is 
equal to four ounces of Mecca tnstinco. Mahomedans make 
great use of these fish as a remedy for impotence, and to 
increase sexual desire. The second present consisted in some 
eighty camels with long hair and of great strength, and one 
small horse, well made and lively, of such singular activity that 
it could travel eighty leagues in twenty-four hours without any 
difficulty. There were other eighty fine horses, such as are 
called Turki. The third present consisted in one hundred 
camels loaded with fresh fruit — melons, apples, pears, pome- 
granates, and grapes without seeds ; and other hundred camels 
loaded with dried fruit — Bukhara plums, the best in the world, 
apricots, quismis {=kishmish, or raisins), which are a white, 
seedless grape of great sweetness, and other three kinds of 
dried grapes, one large and white, which looks candied and 
the Italians call zehibo^ and the other two kinds purple — 
one large, the other small, both very sweet — and nuts, filberts, 
pine-nuts,^ almonds, and pistachios. 

Aurangiieb showed pleasure at the presents, and replied that the 
envoys would be speedily sent on their return journey. Mean- 
while, they might come to the court whenever they wished. 
They were contented and satisfied at the honours paid them by 
the king, not having hoped for so much. But throughout the 
interview they stood, following the custom set up by King 
Akbar. When the ambassadors had gone out, Aurangzeb 
ordered the little horse to be brought, to try its paces. He 
wondered at the activity of the little creature, and as a further 
trial ordered it to be ridden to Agrah, a distance of seventy-six 
leagues from Dihli, It was to start at sunrise, bearing a letter 
to the eunuch Ptibar !^an, who was to report the hour of 
arrival. Before the sun had set it arrived at the gate of Agrah 
Fort, as reported by Ptibar !^an to the king. It was ordered 
to be placed in the royal stable in the principal rank, and the 

1 Zilihbo, dried grapes, raisins. Pine-nuts, see G. Birdwood, ‘Catalogue of 
the Economic Products of the Presidency of Bombay ’ (Bombay. 1862), p. 84. 
Pmis pinea, stone-pine, the seeds = pine-nuts ; vernacular name chilghoza 
(Persian). Royle says the chilghoza of Kabul may be P. gerardiana. 



HABITS OF BALKH EyiVOY AXD SUITE 


3 ? 


name of Bad-raftaY was given to it — that is to say, ‘ Swift as 
the Wind.’ It was delightful to see this horse, a pigmy among 
giants, chief over them all, and more esteemed and liked by 
Aurangzeb than the choicest horses from Persia and Arabia. 

The ambassadors stayed four months in Dihll, at the house 
of Lutfula can (Lutfullah Hian),^ assigned by the king as their 
dwelling. They were all men of dirty and rustic habits, of 
green and black complexion, tall, with scanty beards and 
diminutive eyes, active horsemen and dextrous archers, their 
bows and arrows being large and powerful. This people fight 
their enemies most vigorously with arrows, but if they meet 
with resistance they take to flight at a great pace, though con- 
tinuing to shoot their arrows, as I have [27] seen in several 
battles. While they were at DihlT the envoy’s people sold 
different articles of merchandise brought by them, such as 
horses, camels, musk, beaver (castor), and skins. I bought 
several things from them. 

They soon prayed the king to give them their leave to 
depart, for they did not find themselves comfortable in that 
climate, through the great heats that had come on. They 
were accustomed to cold ; thus several of them died But the 
chief cause of mortality was their avarice, and in order not to 
disburse what the king allowed them for expenses, they con- 
sumed the flesh of sick horses and camels. 

It happened that a relation of the envoy fell ill, and imagining 
that I was a physician, as they suppose all Europeans to be, 
they called me to their house. I knew a few secrets, but 
I did not give myself out as a physician, nor was I bold 
enough to teach myself medicine at the expense of others* 
lives. But seeing that these savages had sent for me to their 
house, I was anxious to see how they lived. I proceeded with 
great solemnity to the spot. When I had gone in I found the 
patient on a very dirty bed in a fetid sweat with the odour of 
very rotten cheese. I ordered his urine to be shown, and it, 
too, smelt the same. I felt his pulse, but my thoughts were 
not given to the pulse, but to finding something I could seize 

1 Possibly L. K. (son of Sa'dullah Klian. wazir) is meant. He died iSth Sha'ban, 
1114 H. (January 7, 1703). 



40 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


on in the difficulty to effect a good recovery. Nevertheless, I 
ascertained that he was in a high fever, and placing my hand 
upon his head, bathed in malodorous perspiration, I found it 
was burning hot, like a pot placed upon the fire. To induce 
him to believe that I was a great physician, I asked the 
patient’s age, and then for a time I assumed a pensive attitude, 
as if I were seeking for the cause of the illness. Next, as is 
the fashion with doctors, I said some words making out the 
attack to be very grave. This was done in order not to lose 
my reputation and credit if he came to die. 

All of them were in a state of admiration, saying among 
themselves that I was a great physician, and that the Franks 
had received from heaven the gift of being accomplished doctors. 
The principal envoy prayed me earnestly to put forth all my 
powers to cure this relation of his. I held out to him good 
hope of a cure, and, being unable to stay any more in the place 
owing to the smell, I told them I was going home to prepare 
medicine, and that in the evening I would return once more. 

I came out and repaired to a friend of mine called Joa6 de 
Souza, a Portuguese, who was under an obligation to me, and 
recounted to him all that had passed. As he had considerable 
acquaintance with medicine, he was much astonished at such 
a report, and did not know what to prescribe for the patient. 
Still, he delivered to me some pills. For three days I went on 
with these, giving them to the sick man, who did not seem to 
me to be improving. But all the men asserted to me that 
already he was recovering [28], whereat I rejoiced much. I 
seized the opening to still more cry up the medicine and dwell 
on the danger of the disease. Twice a day I visited the patient, 
once in the morning and once in the evening. Each time four 
horsemen arrived to escort me. 

Almost every day that I went there I was obliged to dine 
with the envoy, and I thus had the chance of observing their 
mode of eating. Over fifty persons seated themselves together 
round the cloth. The food w^as flesh of camels and of horses 
cooked with salt in water, and some dishes of pulao of goat’s 
flesh. The cloth, spread upon a carpet, was very dirty. To 
wait on us were two men with bare feet, who, walking upon 



MANUCCI AS MEDECIN MALGRE LUI 


41 


the cloth, distributed the food, each with a big spoon in his 
hand. It was disgusting to see how these Uzbak nobles ate, 
smearing their hands, lips, and faces with grease while eating, 
they having neither forks nor spoons. The only implements 
each had on him were three or four knives, large and small, 
which they usually carry hanging from their waistbelt. Maho- 
medans are accustomed after eating to wash their hands with 
pea-flour to remove grease, and most carefully clean their 
moustaches. But the Uzbak nobles do not stand on such 
ceremony. When they have done eating, they lick their 
fingers, so as not to lose a grain of rice ; they rub one hand 
against the other to warm the fat, and then pass both hands 
over face, moustaches, and beard. He is most lovely who is 
the most greasy. They render thanks to God with * Alaham 
dilaha ’ (A Uliamdu-lHllahi). Each man then begins to take 
tobacco, and remains for a time talking. The conversation 
hardly gets beyond talk of fat, with complaints that in the 
Mogul territory they cannot get anything fat to eat, and that 
the pulaos are deficient in butter. As a salute to their repletion, 
they emit loud eructations, just like the bellowung of bulls. 

Although against my will, I went on with my treatment of 
the sick man ; and I found out, by questioning, the kind of 
food eaten by the sick man when at home. He told me that, 
being a shepherd, he lived on camel’s milk and ate much cheese 
and curds made when the milk turns sour. I discovered in this 
way that the odour of his perspiration and of his urine arose 
from this kind of diet, the heat of India having drawn out the 
smell. Thus I ordered him to eat what he ate in his own 
country. Continuing with some tonic extract of coral, ^ I 
restored him to health in five days, and the envoy was so 
pleased that he made me a present of nine melons and a 
quantity of dried fruit. He entreated me to continue in his 
house, and did all he could think of to persuade me to go with 
him, promising [29] to procure for me from the King of Balkh 
lands and herds of horses and camels and flocks of sheep. He 
said I should be highly esteemed by the king and all the court. 

^ Alguns cordtaes de coral ^ possibly coral de jardim, capsicum, Guinea or bonnet - 
pepper. 



42 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

I was very anxious to join his suite as a means of seeing more of 
the world, but, as their habits did not please me, I made excuses 
many times that I should never get accustomed to their way 
of life. Above all, I had seen once one of their Uzbak soldiers 
lay hold of a small knife and bleed his horse on the neck with 
great dexterity. Having drawn forty ounces of blood, he closed 
the wound with one finger, and drank the blood with great 
gusto. After he was satisfied he shared the rest with his com- 
panions, who came hurriedly, each trying to be first, like so 
many famished wolves. Afterwards the wound was tied up with 
a cloth, and the horse was left to get well of itself. I asked 
him why he drank his horse’s blood. He replied that they 
were accustomed to it, because in their country, when plundering 
within an enemy’s boundary, if provisions failed, their soldiers 
sustained life with the blood of their horses ; nor from this 
blood-letting did the horses lose their vigour. In addition to 
this, he told me it was their habit, when they captured any 
camel, horse, or sheep in an enemy’s country, if they were 
unable to carry it off, to decapitate it, cut it into pieces, and 
place some pieces between their saddle and their horse’s back, 
for consumption on the march whenever they were hungry. 

The envoys brought several Tartar and Uzbak women with 
them for sale. They are employed [in harems] either to carry 
palanquins or to stand on sentry at night, when the king or 
the princes are with their wives. They are chosen because they 
are warlike, and skilful in the use of lance, arrow, and sword. 
Among them was one called Jacsi^ (Ya^shl)— that is, in the 
Turkish language, ‘ Good,’ who was very skilful with bow and 
arrow, of good stature, and strong, with a broad face and 
little eyes. This woman was bought by Aftecar can fiftikhar 
Khan), 2 and by him presented to the king. Aurangzeb ordered 
her to be placed upon the list of the numerous Kashghar, 

^ Jticsi, I am indebted to Mr. A, G, Ellis for the identification of this word in 
‘ Sheikh Suleiman Efendi*s Chagatae Osmanli Worterbuch,’ by Dr. Ignaz Kunos 
(Buda-Pest, 1902), p. 96. It is YaMshi, ‘schon, gut.’ See also Pavet de 
Courteille, ‘Dictionnaire/p. 543, 

Sultan IJusain, eldest son of Asalat Kh an. Mir Baj^ishi, received the title of 
Ifti^ar aan in the first year of Aurangzeb. He died in 1092 H (1681) (Beale, 
‘Or. Biography,’ 175, and ‘ Ma,asir-ul-Umara,’ i. 252). 



AN tJZBAK SLAVE AND HER SON 


43 


Qalmaq, ' Partaras ’ (? Pathani), and Abyssinian women, who 
acted as sentinels round the king at night. 

After some months had passed, the chief of these amazons 
informed the king of Ya^shFs pregnancy. Aurangzeb’s 
answer was that, should it be a boy, he would rear him as 
a son; if a girl, as a daughter. The Tartar woman brought 
forth a male child, whereupon the king adopted him as a son, 
and gave him the title of Alantox Bahader (Alamtosh Bahadur)^ 
— that is to say, ‘ Valorous of the World.’ When he grew up 
he was granted the establishment of a prince. But owing to 
the undisciplined conduct of the youth, Aurangzeb was forced 
to thrust him out and take away from him his rank as a prince, 
leaving him very small [30] pay. Here it is appropriate to 
remark that in India it is the custom to bring up such children 
as if they were true sons. Experience teaches that such children 
rarely turn out well, and are like a conflagration in a house. 

The four months were drawing to a close, and the envoys 
from Balkh began to talk of a return to their own country. 
Aurangzeb, at their leave-taking, ordered them to receive two 
sets of robes of rich stuff for each man, and eight thousand 
rupees. For the King of Balkh he sent as a remembrance 
many pieces of costly brocade, a quantity of very fine white 
cloth to make veils {beatilhas),^ many pieces of striped gold and 

^ There was such a person of undescribed origin about the Court from 1081 H. 
(1670) to 1097 H. {1686). He is styled variously Yalangtosh (* Ma,asir-ul-Umara,’ 
iii. 971), Palangposh Khaji. and Palangtosh IQian, Bahadur (‘Ma,asir-i-‘Alamgiri/ 
108, etc.) The last form is probably correct, from palang, ‘panther,' and tosh, 
‘strength.’ In 1093 H. (1682) he was made Qurbegi, or head of the armoury, 
and in 1096 H. (1685) superintendent of the pages (an important office). He fell 
into disgrace in 1097 H. (16S6), and we hear no more of him. His son, Subhan 
WirdI, was living in 1104 H. (1692). 

Yalangtosh TTha n, Bahadur, was a ‘Turk-bachah ’ (slave), brought up by ‘Alamgir ; 
he received a mansab and the title of Khan. In Aurangzeb’s fourteenth year he 
was given a sword, dagger, and spear. In the twenty-fifth year he was made 
superintendent of the armoury, and in the twenty-eighth superintendent of the 
pages. He was liked by the Emperor, whose ways and temperament he under- 
stood. For a time he was out of favour ; the year of his death is not known (Kewal 
Ram, ‘Tazkirat-ul-Umara,’ British Museum Additional MS., 16,703, fol, 1086). 

Beatilha (Yule, 90, and ‘ Madras Manual of Administration,* iii. 233), an old 
trade name for a fine kind of muslin. Bsatilha, Portuguese for *a veil’; from 
heata, ‘ a nun.’ 



44 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


silver cloth, five pairs of very large carpets, two daggers, 
adorned with precious stones, five flasks of essence of roses, 
and nine costly and beautiful sets of robes, with the whole of 
which the envoys were much satisfied. 

Ignorance made them thus satisfied, for they were not aware 
that the King of the Moguls sends sarapas (sets of robes) to 
subjects only. To send a sarap& to anyone is to declare him to 
be a subject. If he submit to this, no further present need be 
added. The reader should understand that the Kings of 
Bijapur and Gulkandah, and the Rana, when the Mogul king 
sent them sarapas, were under obligation to come out one 
league from their capital to be invested with the robes, after 
making obeisance three times, as usual in Hindustan, with 
their face turned in the direction of the court and the letters 
placed on the top of their head. But the king Rana [of 
Udepur?] would never consent to put on the sampa of the 
Mogul, in order not to admit himself to be a subject, although 
every year he pays for seven thousand cavalry, who are kept 
continuously in the service of the Mogul king. 

After the royal audience of leave-taking, the envoys sent 
their baggage out of the city, while they stayed behind with 
fifty horsemen in order to take leave of the greater nobles. 
The first to whom they went was Ja‘far !^an, chief secretary 
{i,e,, wazlr), and he produced, as is the custom, a box full of 
betel, of which they ate as they came away. The box was of 
gold, and its salver covered with precious stones, the whole 
worth more than one hundred thousand rupees. Feigning the 
innocent, the envoy made believe that the whole was made 
over to him as a gift. He took the box and the salver and 
placed them inside his clothes, which are long, wide, and 
flowing, then hurriedly made his adieu with a few complimentary 
words. Off went the eunuch at once to inform the secretary of 
the low conduct of these rustics. The wazir, aware of the 
avaricious character of the people, gave orders that, without 
the least delay, all the umards (nobles) should be warned of 
\\ hat the Bal^ envoys had done. The nobles, warned at the 
cost of others, when the envoys appeared, sent them betel-leaf 
m silver boxes of small value. Thus did Muhammad Amin 



MEANNESS OF THE BALKHIS 


45 


Khan, and after him [31] Multafat Khan ; whence, recognising 
that no one else could be cheated like Ja'far Khan, they took 
the betel, made no more visits, and, quitting the city, started 
for their country^ being thus filled with grease, inside and out. 

The Naval Forces. 

Having arranged the affairs of his kingdom with sufficient 
completeness, Aurangzeb, relying upon the victories he had 
gained on land, thought of establishing the fear of himself at 
sea ; he therefore resolved to set up a fleet, with a considerable 
number of ships. The reason for this resolve was the loss of 
a Mahomedan vessel loaded with kauris. In Italian these are 
called lumaquelle;^ they come from the Maldives, and are current 
money in the kingdom of Bengal. After some fighting this 
ship was taken by pirates.^ The captain and the merchants 
on the ship said to the pirates that the kauris would never be 
of any use to them ; thus they should be satisfied to accompany 
them as far as Mecca, in which port they would pay them 
forty thousand patacas.^ The proposal was accepted, and the 
pirates went to Mecca. At a distance from the harbour they 
awaited the fulfilment of the agreed bargain. But the Maho- 
medans, instead of satisfying the pirates, laid hold of the 
opportunity of two royal vessels being there. These ships had 
brought /ag^lrs and the ladies and lords of Hindustan to Mecca. 
They so arranged that with the assistance of other merchant 
ships they all sailed out to capture the Frank pirate. But it 
turned out very differently from what they expected. For, 
going out to hunt, they were themselves hunted. The pirates, 
seeing some ten or twelve vessels coming against them, pre- 
tended to take to flight, in the hope of drawing these inexperienced 
men out to the open sea. 

The Mahomedans did all they could to catch the pirate ship, 
under the belief that she could not escape, when, much to their 

^ Lumachella, a small snail. Lumaca, a snail. 

2 Apparently the ‘ pirates ’ were Portuguese ; see further on, where the men 
are called Farangis, a word then in use in Bengal and elsewhere for a low class 
of Portuguese half-castes. 

® A pataca was worth two rupees. 



46 OF KIXG AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

surprise, the pirate, with great determination and courage, veered 
round, and, getting amongst the attacking vessels, most dexter- 
ously discharged its guns and threw them into disorder. Thus, 
some dispersed one way and some another. The pirates captured 
one ship, and after stripping it, set it on fire, consuming both 
the vessel and all those that w’ere in it. Nor were they satisfied 
with this vengeance. Knowing the little acquaintance with 
sea-life and the little handiness at sea possessed by the Maho- 
medans, they sailed to the latitude of Dio (Diu), near Surat, 
and waited for the royal ships. These were on their way from 
Mecca with high-placed lords and ladies, besides There 
was also much coin, chiefly Venetian, vulgarly called zequinhos 
(sequins)." It turned out as they had hoped, for when the two 
ships arrived, they attacked them and overcame [32] one of 
them, when they not only took its valuable cargo, but dishonoured 
the ladies aboard of it. 

The damaged vessel arrived at Surat, whence the governor 
reported to Aurangzeb what had occurred. This was the reason 
of his wishing to create a war navy, to sweep the seas of the 
pirates and make himself powerful at sea. With this object 
in view the king imparted his design to JaTar l^an, the chief 
secretary, a man of judgment, who demanded time before 
answering. After some days he said to Aurangzeb that his 
majesty had no deficiency of money or timber, or other materials 
to form a navy. But he was without the chief thing — that is 
to say, men to direct it. Aurangzeb retorted that the conduct 
of it might be entrusted to the Franks, who lived on his pay. 
But Ja‘far Ehan boldly, as a faithful minister, replied that it 
would not be well to confide to foreigners — fugitives from their 
own country — a business of such importance. Those men 
might easily abscond ; nor would they think the Mogul soldiers, 
who might man the ships, of any account ; and these, not being 
properly trained, would allow themselves to be completely 
controlled by those commanders. 

To all these arguments Aurangzeb turned a deaf ear (as he 
persisted in his desire to have a fleet), and then issued an order 

^ The Venetian zecchino, cecchhio, or sequin, a gold coin long current on the 
shores of India (Yule, second edition, 1936). 



UNSATISFACTORY NAVAL EXPERIMENT 


-17 


to have a ship constructed. He wanted to have ocular demon- 
stration of the difficulties raised by Ja‘far J^an. This order 
was taken to my fellow-countryman Ortencio Bronzoni, a 
lapidary, of whom I have already spoken,^ who made a small 
ship with its sails and rigging, guns and flags. When it was 
ready, it was launched on a great tank. The king and all the 
court assembled to behold a kind of machine which could not 
travel by land. Here the European artiller}TOen, accustomed 
to navigation, went aboard the vessel, and caused it to move in 
all directions by adjusting the sails and working the helm with 
great dexterity and cleverness. Then, as if engaging some other 
man-of-war, they discharged the cannon, turning in all direc- 
tions. On seeing all this, after reflecting on the construction 
of the boat and the dexterity required in handling it, Aurangzeb 
concluded that to sail over and fight on the ocean were not 
things for the people of Hindustan, but only suited to European 
alertness and boldness. Thus at last he abandoned the project 
entertained with such obstinacy. 

The Ambassador of Persia, 

In the second year of Aurangzeb’s reign the ambassador of 
Shah ‘Abbas [33] the second. King of Persia, arrived. Learning 
that he was about to reach the boundary of the Hindustan 
kingdom,^ Aurangzeb sent to meet him an officer called Abdulbeg 
(‘Abdullah Beg), formerly police officer of Shahjahan [abad], 
a man of good judgment. His orders were to receive the 
ambassador at the frontier and to discover his intentions, 
not sparing expense. He must also succeed in particularly 
impressing on him the ceremonial of the Indian court, the 

1 Ortencio Bronzoni, Venetian ; see Part I., p. 164, where he is named as the 
cutter of the diamond given by Mir Jumlah to Shahjahan, He is also mentioned 
by Tavernier (Ball, vol. i., p. 396 ; ii. 440) under the form of Borgio, 

2 See Bernier (Constable), 146, 147. Budaq Beg, envoy of Shah ‘Abbas II. of 
Iran, on the last day of Sha'ban, 1071 H., the third year (April 30, 1661), entered 
Multan. An order was passed for Tarbiyat Khan. Governor of Multan, and 
]^alilullah ^an, Governor of Labor, to entertain him. He reached Sarae 
Badli, and had an audience on the 3rd Shawwal, 1071 H. (June 2, 1661) 
(‘ Ma,asir-i-*Alamgiri,’ p. 35). Budaq Beg was the son of Qalandar Sul.tan, 
Cholah, Tufangchl-aqasI (see ‘ Ma,asir-ul-Umara,* i. 495. s.v. Tarbiyat Khan). 



48 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDVSTAN 


obligatory obeisances, and how it was an ancient practice from 
Akbar’s days up to that time that Mogul kings accord seats to 
no one, and do not take a letter direct from the hand of any 
man. Letters are delivered to the wazir, and he reads them to 
the king. After he had given him this information, he was to 
find out if the ambassador was minded to make the accustomed 
obeisances and to put the letter into the hands of the wazlr. On 
all these points he was to report to court minutely. 

Some men further assert with great positiveness that the 
king had given a secret order to ‘Abdullah Beg to send back 
the Persian ambassador if he did not choose to do according to 
the customs of Hindustan. He also ordered the viceroys and 
provincial governors to receive the ambassador with every 
honour, in order thus to gain his goodwill and to be able 
to discover the more easily what intentions he had. ‘Abdullah 
Beg started, and went out to meet the ambassador at the 
Qandahar frontier. Thence he brought him in his company 
as far as Kabul. From this place ‘Abdullah Beg wrote to the 
king that he had already instructed the ambassador in the 
practice of the Mogul kings, and that he had raised no diffi- 
culties about doing what the ambassadors of other great kings 
had done, as he had assured him several times. 

Aurangzeb knew the discretion and power of dissimulation 
of the Persians. For he remembered the rudeness shown by 
another Persian ambassador in the time of Shahjahan. He 
therefore wrote to Salllullah ^an. Governor of Labor, that 
during a feast he must succeed in finding out delicately from 
the ambassador himself if he meant to make the obeisances 
after the Indian mode or not. :aalllullah Khan informed the 
king that the ambassador had given him his word to do them 
as others did, 

On the ambassador’s arrival within one day of Dihli, 
Aurangzeb sent Muhammad Amin Khan [the son of Mir Jum- 
lah] at the head of one thousand selected horsemen to meet 
him and escort him to the city. He was to discover the object 
of this embassy and why he had come. Gifts and presents 
were not to be stinted, whether to the ambassador or to the 
five hundred Persian cavaliers who accompanied him. To 



RECEPTION OF PERSIAN AMBASSADOR 


49 


gain time for finding out the reason of the embassy and the 
intentions of the ambassador in regard to the obeisances usual 
in India, he further ordered him to come in leisurely, so that the 
streets might be prepared through which the ambassador [34] 
was to pass ; he was to bring him to a halt near the royal garden 
called Xalemas (Shalihmar),^ distant three leagues from the city. 

Aurangzeb despatched various nobles on the heels of Muham- 
mad Amin Khan to meet the ambassador. But the latter 
would not so far state whether he would make the usual 
obeisances or not, and never disclosed the object of his mission. 
Aurangzeb insisted on knowing the object of the embassy, and 
whether the ambassador meant to make the obeisances usual 
in India. He feared that Shah ^Abbas, supported by Mir 
Jumlah, Khalllullah ^an, Ja‘far ^^an, and many other 
officers, who were Persians, might attempt something in these 
early days of his (Aurangzeb’s) reign. For there still lived 
several men ill-affected towards him, favourites of Shahjahan, 
and he wanted to adopt precautionary measures, knowing by 
experience how much inclined the Persians are to treachery. 

The ambassador halted near the garden referred to, and an 
official was sent from the court to Muhammad Amin ^an, 
instructing him to tell the ambassador that although ambas- 
sadors’ letters were received only by the wazlv, still, as he was 
the ambassador of the King of Persia, to him would be con- 
ceded the favour that one of the princes, Aurangzeb’s sons, 
should receive it. The ambassador seemed satisfied at this. 
Meanwhile, Aurangzeb gave orders for soldiers to be posted on 
both sides of the street, a league in length, through which the 
ambassador would pass. The principal streets were decorated 
with rich stuffs, both in the shops and at the windows, and 
the ambassador was brought through them, escorted by a 
number of officers, with music, drums, pipes, and trumpets. 
On his entering the fort, or royal palace, he was saluted by all 
the artillery. 

Aurangzeb was seated on a throne in shape like a peacock — 

^ The garden of Shalihmar at Dihli disappeared many years ago ; it was near 
the village of Badli Sarae. Badli is mentioned in the * Ma,asir-i-*AIamgiri ’ as 
the halting-place. 

VOL. II. 


4 



50 OF KL\G AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDOSTiN 

a marvellous piece of work made by King Shahjahan — but he 
never had the good fortune to sit on it. Fearing that the 
ambassador might not wish to make the necessary obeisances, 
Aurangzeb caused four tall, muscular men to be posted near 
him with orders that, should he decline to follow the custom, 
they should by force make him bend his neck. The whole 
court was adorned with a thousand marvellous things. 

The ambassador appeared within sight of the king, accom- 
panied by all the nobles, and having arrived at the place where 
he had to make the salam, the nobles intimated that he had to 
fulfil his duty, for now was the time. Ignoring the lessons of 
'Abdullah Beg and his own promise confirmed so many times, he 
made his sala 7 n in the Persian fashion by placing both hands 
on his breast. Whereupon the four strong men told off for 
this purpose came up; two took him [35] by the hands, and 
two by the neck, and without force or violence, as if they were 
teaching him, they lowered his hands and bent his head. 
They told him that thus it was the fashion to make obeisance 
in the Mogul country. Upon this the ambassador acted 
prudently, and allowed his whole body to bend without 
resisting, and performed his bow in the Indian manner. 

At this moment Aurangzeb turned his face a little, as if 
speaking to his son, Sultan Mu'zzam, nowadays known as Shah 
‘Alam, who, rising, came to the ambassador. The latter, with- 
out any token of grievance, with a smiling countenance, drew 
forth the letter, and having raised it to his head, made it over 
to the prince. The prince presented it to the king, who made 
a sign for its delivery to the eunuch Danex (Danish), the head 
of the kings household. After the ambassador had put on 
a rich set of robes, the master of the ceremonies informed him 
that now was the time to produce the presents he had brought 
from Persia. 

This present consisted of twenty-seven handsome, large, and 
powerful horses, each horse having two men to lead it by reins. 
Nine of these horses were decked out with precious stones, and 
saddles decorated with pearls. The others had housings of 
costly brocade reaching to their feet. There were eighteen 
large shaggy camels, taller than any in India or in Bal^, 



THE PERSIAN PRESENTS 


51 


clothed in lovely coverings; sixty cases of perfect rose-water, 
and twenty cases of another water, distilled from a flower 
which is only found in Persia, and is called bedemus {bed-i- 
mushk ),^ : it is a very comforting water against all fevers caused 
by heat ; twelve carpets, fifteen cubits in length and five in 
breadth, very handsome and finely worked ; four cases filled 
with brocade lengths, very rich, figured with pleasing flowers, 
and very costly; also four damascened short-swords, four 
poignards covered with precious stones; also a sealed box of 
gold, full of manna from the mountains of Shlrax. Aurangzeb, 
with a lively expression on his face, spied out with curiosity 
all these presents of Shah ‘Abbas, and, meanwhile, directed 
Muhammad Amin ^an to put some friendly questions to the 
ambassador ; then, rising, he sent word to him that he might 
retire, and if he came to court again he would be most welcome. 

The ambassador came out in the company of several nobles, 
who conveyed him to the palace of ‘All Mardan l^Sn (he who 
made over Qandahar to Shahjahan), which had been prepared 
beforehand, and spread with carpets for the purpose. Aurang- 
zeb also directed the nobles to invite and entertain the ambas- 
sador with pomp throughout his stay in the city of Dihli at the 
cost of the royal treasury, taking each one day, as most con- 
venient to themselves [36]. The wretched ‘Abdullah Beg was 
expelled from court in disgrace, because the Persian ambassador 
had not made at once the required obeisance. The man died 
in a short time from grief. During this time there was much 
whispering at court and in the city about the force used to the 
ambassador in making him do obeisance in the Indian fashion, 
even if it was force politely applied. The Persians complained 
a great deal of this violence, imputing to Aurangzeb rashness, 
and saying the King of Persia would take vengeance for such 
an affront. Many rumours were current and in everyone’s 
mouth, even those of the great nobles, as is the habit when 
any considerable event occurs in regard to foreign ambassadors. 

Others said Shah ‘Abbas would never pardon the ambassador 
for having bowed his body in the presence of Aurangzeb, and 

^ Bed-i-miiskk, Egyptian willow {Saltx sygostomon), according to Steingass, 

‘ Persian Dictionary,’ 217. 


4—2 



52 OF KISG AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

that on his return to Persia his head would be cut off. Others 
declared that the King of Persia administered reproofs to 
Aurangzeb in the letter he had forwarded. He told him how 
the whole world was scandalized at the harsh deed he had 
done in cutting off the head of Dara, his elder brother ; and, 
furthermore, in spite of an oath confirmed on the Quran that 
he would raise his brother, Murad Ba^sh, to the throne, he 
had, under pretext of law, caused him to be decapitated. 
Farther, leaving those things out of the question, he could not 
resist calling a man barbarous and inhuman who, in defiance 
of the laws of nature and the inexpugnable obligations due to 
parents, had seized the emperor Shahjahan, his father. The 
latter had for many years concealed his son's bad qualities, 
hoping that age would ameliorate his judgment. But, through 
lapse of time, he came to know instead that he had a heart 
more ferocious than a tiger's, more barbarous than any animal's. 
Among them there were even some who taught men the right 
way to behave to their aged parents, as could be seen in books 
on natural history. 

These and such-like things, rumour said, had been written by 
Shah ‘x\bbas to Aurangzeb. Others declared that Shah ‘Abbas 
was very wroth that Aurangzeb, on his coin, had styled himself 
‘ Conqueror of the World ' {Le., ‘Alamgir). But the truth is 
that no one knew what was entered in the letter, because 
Aurangzeb did not confide it even to his own wazw, he being a 
Persian. On the whole, the above statements were the nearest 
to certainty. Thus, anyone who had no experience would 
wonder how Shah ‘Abbas could send along with such a terrible 
letter presents of such value. But anyone who reads history 
well knows that it was a great crime to appear before the kings 
of the Lacedemonians and of the Persians [with empty hands]. 
Hence the kings of Asia acquired the habit [37] of finding out, 
when a foreigner came to court, whether he brought presents 
or not ; he who brought none was unable to obtain an audience. 

After eight days the ambassador was invited by the wazir, 
Ja‘far !|^an, and there a splendid banquet was given after the 
manner of India. In the four months and longer that he 
stayed at Dihll, the ambassador would not accept any other 



DEPARTURE OF PERSIAS^ EMBASSY 


S3 


noble's invitation, except that of Muhammad Amin Khan. 
This was eight days before his leave-taking, when Muhammad 
Amin Hian entertained him most magnificently. Before every- 
one else he set down dishes and basins of silver, but the ambas- 
sador was served on gold alone. At the end of the meal, 
Muhammad Amin Khan caused all the services of silver and 
gold to be placed upon the table, and urgently entreated the 
ambassador to accept them as a present. But the ambassador, 
tendering his thanks, made excuses, and would accept nothing. 

It was a striking thing, and I most particularly observed it, 
the difference between the people of India and the Persians. 
Putting them side by side, you could then recognise the 
difference both in attitude and features, in speech, in acts, in 
voice. Thus the Persians had the advantage over the Indians, 
and it was a fine sight to see the ambassador followed by his 
five hundred horsemen, almost all of the same height and 
appearance, large-limbed and handsome men, with huge mous- 
taches, and riding excellent and well-equipped horses. Among 
them I knew one, a Muscovite, a slave of the Persian king, who 
came in the ambassador’s train. Owing to the friendship we 
had had in Persia, he came several times to my house. Desirous 
of finding out something about the embassy, I asked him in 
a friendly way the favour of his telling me something about it ; 
but, shrugging his shoulders and shutting his eyes, he gave me 
a sign that he could not speak. 

At the end of four months and a half the ambassador was 
sent away honourably, and Aurangzeb made him a gift of two 
horses with trappings, of a poignard mounted with precious 
stones, a lovely emerald to wear in his turban, and a valuable 
set of robes. Last of all, a letter for Shah ‘Abbas was made 
over to him, and a small escritoire of gold covered with precious 
stones. This was closed and sealed up, and was to be made 
over to his king; no one knew what was in it [38].^ The 
ambassador left the court, but at his departure there were no 
festivities equal to those at his arrival. At the time of the 
return journey, Aurangzeb wrote to Khalllullah Khan at Labor 

^ The envoy's audience of leave-taking was on the loth Zi Hijjah of the fourth 
year, 1071 H, (August 7. 1661) (‘ Ma,asir-i-*Alamgiri/ p. 36, line 15) 



54 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


that he must send men to every ferry to search the ambassador’s 
packages, and strict measures were taken to prevent his taking 
any men of India to Persia, Aurangzeb acted thus because the 
Persians call the people of India slaves (so it was said), but the 
real reason is not known. The order of the king was carried 
out with such rigour that they took away all the slaves he had 
bought. Nor did it avail to hide them in boxes, for they were 
found and dragged out. Thus the ambassador went back to 
Persia affronted. But since kings know not how to forgive, 
Shah ‘Abbas took his revenge after some years when Aurangzeb 
sent to him an ambassador, as in its place I shall recount (II. 96). 

Illness of Aurangzeb. 

Some time after the departure of the ambassador, Aurangzeb 
fell ill of sudden fever, which was so severe that it caused 
delirium, and the doctors were unable to reduce the heat of the 
blood.^ As a last remedy they decided to bleed him, as was 
done. But Aurangzeb being very restless on his bed, it happened 
that by the movements of his body the bandage came undone, 
and the blood began to flow. By the time the physician, called 
Aquim el Mulq (Haklm-ul-Mulk),^ had arrived much blood had 
already been lost ; the physician, though in a great fright, tied 
the bandage anew. 

Aurangzeb, owing to the great heat he was in, wanted to 
eat water-melons, and Hakim-ul-Mulk incautiously gave him 
permission. Thus, through eating water-melons, he had a 
paralysis of the tongue, so that he veiy nearly lost his power 
of speech entirely, and the physicians were doubtful about his 
recovery. 

Believing that there was no hope of her brother surviving, 
Roshan Ara Begam took away the royal seal and wrote to 
many rajahs and generals on behalf of Sultan A‘zam, then 

1 The illness began about the commencement of the fifth year, 3rd Shawwal, 
1072 (May 22, 1662). Aurangzeb was ill until the loth Zi Hijjah, 1072 (July 27, 
1662). On _the 17th Zi Qa'dah (August 3, 1662) he bathed on recovery 
{‘Ma.asir-i-LAlamgiri,’ 41, Elphinstone, 538 , Bernier, 123-126). 

- ^r Muhammad Mahdi. ArdistSni, came with Aurangzeb from the Dakhin in 
1068 H. (165S), was made a Hazari, and soon obtained the title of Hakim-ul-Mulk 
(* Ma,asir-ul-Umara,* i. 599). 



APPREHENSIONS OF AURANGZEB^S DEATH 


55 


nine years of age and actually living in the harem When 
the mother of Sultan Mu^azzam learnt this, she said to Roshan 
Ara Begam that what she was doing was not right, thus to 
rouse the empire, setting on foot in it confusion and disquiet [39], 
while the king was still alive and there was hope of his recover}-. 
Having said this, she proceeded to the king’s bedside, but Roshan 
Ara Begam boldly seized her by the hair and ejected her from 
the royal chamber. The queen, not to afflict her suffering 
husband, bore it quietly and patiently. 

Meanwhile, it was terrible to see the city of Dihll in such 
confusion. Rumours were current that the king was already 
dead; wherefore everyone made preparations for doing what 
best suited his own affairs. Others said that though the king 
was alive, there was no hope of his recovery, that Rajah Jaswant 
Singh was coming from Gujarat to free Shahjahan from prison, 
and that Mahabat Khan w’ould surely come for the same purpose. 
I leave the reader to imagine what confusion there must have 
been in a city the capital of a kingdom which had been accus- 
tomed to recognise asking none but the one who, after the defeat 
of all others, came out sole victor. 

Roshan Ara Begam was the causer of all this uproar. She 
allowed no one to see the sick Aurangzeb, except one eunuch 
belonging to her faction. But Sultan Mu'azzam, who was 
sixteen years of age^ and lived outside the fort, in the mansion 
of Prince Dara, was afraid that his father was already dead, 
and that Roshan Ara Begam did not want the news to spread 
until she had persuaded the Hindu princes to support Prince 
A^zam Tara. Since it was clear that she favoured this little 
prince, and was inimical to Sultan Mu'azzam, the latter resolved 
to make use of Jai Singh. Therefore, disguising himself, he 
went one night to this rajah, and, presenting to him some 
jewels of great price, prayed him earnestly to take his part on 
this occasion. His father was already dead. He then made 
a movement as if to fall at the rajah’s feet ; but the latter, taking 

^ As Sultan A'zam was bom on the 12th Sha'ban, 1063 H. (July 9, 1653). in 
May, 1662, he had nearly completed his ninth year. He was the third son. 

2 Sultan Mu‘azzam was born on the 30th Rajab, 1053 H. (October 14, 1643). 
Thus, in May, 1662, he was nearly nineteen years of age. 



36 OF KING A URAXGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


him in his arms, raised him. After lengthy discourse, wherein 
he set forth the particular esteem he had for the prince and the 
singular desire he cherished to be of service to him in this 
juncture, he inquired if he knew for a certainty that the king, 
his father, was dead. 

The prince replied that it could be assumed this was so, since 
Roshan Ara Begam would not allow anyone to go into the 
ro3’al harem, nor anyone to come out, who could give word of 
the life or death of the king. In spite of all he had done to 
ascertain the truth, no one could find out if [40] Aurangzeb 
was alive or dead. Upon this the rajah asked him to take some 
repose, for in a few hours he would know the condition of the 
king. With this object he wrote a short note to one of Roshan 
Ara Begam’s eunuchs saying he offered him two hundred 
thousand rupees on condition of his sending him a clear state- 
ment whether the king was alive or dead. He forwarded this 
note by one of his own trusted eunuchs. The eunuch of Roshan 
Ara Begam replied by another note stating that the king was 
still alive. 

On perusing this answer, Jai Singh said to the prince that 
the king, his father, not being yet dead, he could therefore 
return to his house and retire to rest, and this was the best 
thing for him to do. The prince trusted in the affection shown 
him bj- the rajah ; and he asked him if it was advisable to go to 
Agrah and fall at his grandfather’s feet, to get him on his side 
when the death of his father, Aurangzeb, should come to pass. 
Rajah Jai Singh, who saw plainly that if Shahjahan got out 
of prison a great many must lose their lives, answered in the 
negative. It were better to dissemble till the death of the king, 
and if God so willed it he would certainly get the news early. 
He swore to him upon his gods that on the king’s death he 
would be with him at once at the head of thirty thousand 
Rajputs, and would adopt his cause. Suftan Mu'azzam felt 
consoled by this promise, and relying upon the rajah’s oaths, 
went back to his palace. 

Finding there was little hope of recovery, Aurangzeb sent for 
his faithful eunuch, Danish, and warmly recommended to him 
Sultan A'zam. If he should die, he ordered him to hand over 



A URA XGZEB'S FA MILY 


57 


the said prince to Shaistah Khan, who, being a Persian, would 
see that this small boy was protected, and would defend him 
from the insults he might have to suffer. For Sultan Mu‘azzam 
was already grown up, while the mother of that prince and 
powerful captains were also of his partj". He said nothing 
about Prince Akbar,^ brother of Sultan A‘zam, he being of 
tender years, not more than three years old. 


The Children of Aurangzeb [41]. 

Be it known to the reader that at this time Aurangzeb had 
four sons and four daughters. The sons were Sultan Muhammad, 
of whom I have already spoken ( 1 . 237), at this time a prisoner, 
and Sultan Mu^azzam, the second. These were the sons of one 
mother, a Rajput bj^ race, who offered sacrifice to idols that 
Sultan Mu'azzam, her son, might be king, seeing that the eldest 
was a captive.^ She had a daughter called Zebetnixa Begam 
(Zeb-un-nissa Begam) — that is to say, ‘ Light of Women ’ — and 
she died in the year one thousand six hundred and eighty-one, 
on September i.^ The other sons were Sultan A‘zam and 
Sultan Akbar, who were sons of another mother, a Persian 
by race, the daughter of Xanavascan (Shah Nawaz S^an), of 
whom I have already spoken (I. 225).^ This queen had two 
daughters called Zinethnexa Begom (Zinat-un-nissa Begam) — 

^ Sultan Akbar was born on the 12th Zu,l Hijjah, 1067 H (September 22, 
1657). Thus, in May, 1662, he was in his fifth year. Bernier is more wrong 
here than Manucci. 

2 The mother of Sultan Muhammad, Sultan Mu‘azzam (Shah ‘Alam), and 
Badr-un-nissa, was Nawab Bae, daughter of the Rajah of Rajauri in Kashmir, 
She died at Dihli in 1690 (' Ma,asir-i-*Aiamgiri,’ 343, 533, and Khushlial Chand, 

‘ Nadir-uz-zamani,’ British Museum MS., Oriental, 3288, fol, 227^), Badr-un- 
nissa died on the 27th Zu,l Qa'dah, 1080 H. (April iS, 1670). 

2 According to the ‘ Ma,asir-i-‘AlamgirI,’ 533, Zeb-un-nissa Begam died in 
1113 H. (1701-02). This does not agree with Manucci, nor did any daughter of 
Aurangzeb die in 1681 (1092 H.). Begam Sahib, Aurangzeb’s sister, died in that 
year (1092), and perhaps N. M. here confuses the two events. 

Dilras Bano Begam was a daughter of Shah Nawaz Khan (Badi‘-uz-zaman), 
Safawi, known as Mirza Dakhini. She died in 1067 H. (1656-57) at Aurangabad. 
Her children were A'zam Shah (bom July 9, 1653) and Zabdat-un-nissa (bora 
September 7, 1651) The mother of Zeb un-nissa, Zinat-un-nissa, and of Akbar, 
is styled simply ‘ Begam,’ and this may possibly mean Dilras Bano. 



ss OF KIXG AURAXGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


that is to say, * Riches of Women’ — and the other called Bederexa 
Begom (Badr-nn-nissa Begam) — that is to say, ‘Moon of 
W’omen.’ These princesses forced their father to get them 
husbands, in opposition to the precedent handed down by King 
Akbar to the Mogul kings not to give their daughters in marriage. 
As Aurangzeb was unwilling to break this rule, they told him 
that the Mogul kings were not greater than the great Muhammad, 
who gave his daughter in marriage to ‘All. Thus Aurangzeb, 
overcome by their importunity, and worried by an old man 
named Miyan Jani, who passed as a saint, and every Friday 
when the king went to the mosque, said to him nothing beyond 
these words : ‘ Marry your daughters, and let them follow the 
example of Muhammad’s daughter.’ They were married in the 
year one thousand six hundred and seventy, one to the son of 
Dara, the other to the son of Murad Ba^sh, and up to this 
day they live with their husbands in the fortress of Sallmgarh. 
The fourth daughter’s name was Facronexa Begom (FaMir-un- 
nissa Begam) — that is to say, ‘Grandeur of Women,’ who 
was [42] the child of another particular wife. She did not 
wish to marry, and she will give us occasion to speak of her 
farther on.^ 

When the news of Aurangzeb’s severe illness reached Agrah, 
the eunuch 1‘tibar l^an was thrown into great perplexity, 
chiefly because he heard that Rajah Jaswant Singh and Mahabat 
©an were coming to deliver Shahjahan. The eunuch called 
to mind the harshness he had used to Shahjahan, and looked 
upon himself as lost, and saw facing him a sad and dishonoured 
death. He therefore provided poison to kill himself when any 
change happened. It was for this reason that he sent oif 
daily many couriers to find out news as to the life or death 
of Aurangzeb. x\t this time the common people spoke bitterly 
against 1‘tibar !©an, and said that now had come the time for him 

^ According to the * Ma.asir-i-'Alamgiri,’ 120, 125, 540, these marriages took 
place as follows : In the fifteenth year, i6th Sha'ban, 1082 H. (December 18, 
1671), Ezad Ba^sh, son of Murad Bsg^sh, was married to the fifth daughter, 
Mihr-un-nissa (died April i, 1706), and in the sixteenth year, 21st Shawwal, 
10S3 H. (Februar}^ 10, 1673), Sipihr Shukoh, son of Dara Shukoh, was married 
to Zubdat-un-nissa, the fourth daughter (died 1707). Apartments were prepared 
for them in Salimgarh. No such name as Fa^r-un-nissa is on record. 



MISUSE OF PRIVY SEAL 


59 


to be paid out for his barbarities. Aurangzeb, although still ill, 
knew the importance of proving he was alive and in his senses ; 
therefore he never abandoned the passing and issuing of orders 
intended to take effect throughout the kingdom. Above all, he 
sent to rtibar Khan injunctions to take good care of the king, 
his prisoner. Needing to seal his letters, he called for the great 
seal, which was kept in a bag sealed with the small seal worn 
by the king on his finger. After a search for the seal, it could 
not be found ; he asked Roshan Ara Begam where his signet 
ring was. The princess replied that one day when he swooned 
it fell off his finger, when she had taken charge of it, keeping 
it beneath her pillow. He sealed the letter and gave it back 
to her, concealing his suspicion and waiting till he was thoroughly 
restored to make inquiries into the affair, and find out how they 
had removed the ring. Aurangzeb did not content himself with 
the mere recording and issuing of orders, but to prove to the 
populace that he lived, he caused himself to be carried into 
a hall full of many nobles and great men, where he showed 
himself in person. But in withdrawing he hurt himself, the 
result lasting a long time, and greater trouble than before was 
caused, for everybody supposed that now he must die. 

[Note. — Here are interpolated thirty-nine pages of a French 
version of the preceding Portuguese text and then three blank 
pages. I have compared this French version, and it is nothing 
more than a translation of the Portuguese text.] 

[40 bis]. Having rested for some days, and finding himself 
a little better, Aurangzeb sent for Jaffar Khan, Multafat Hian, 
Muhammad Amin Hian, and Rajah Jai Singh, to disabuse them 
of the then prevailing fear that he was dead. By degrees he re- 
covered his strength, but with great difficulty, it taking him a long 
time to get well. Even after he was sound again he remained a 
little defective in speech, and up to this day he speaks deliberately. 
Having now been restored to perfect health, he obtained from 
the eunuchs accounts of all that Roshan Ara Begam had done 
during his illness. He was much annoyed at her having written 
letters to the viceroys, governors, and generals, in order to gain 
them over to serve Sultan A^zam, and at her having sealed them 



6o OF KING AURAXGZEB. SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

with the royal seal. Above all, he was much affected by her 
unmannerliness to the mother of Suljan Mu'azgam, and by the 
patience with which that queen endured the insolence of the 
princess. For these reasons he thenceforth thought more of 
the queen, increased her rank, and conferred on her the title 
of Xabab Balgi (Nawab Bal JI) — that is to say, ‘ Greatest 
among Women ’ — and felt more affection for Sultan Mu'azzam, 
to whom he gave the title of Xaalam (Shah ‘Alam) — that is to 
say, ‘ King of the World.’ Roshan Ara Begam lost much of 
the love that Aurangzeb had borne her, he being now angered 
at her behaviour. 

Aurangzeb remits Tribute. 

When other Mogul kings fell ill, there always arose some 
trouble with the viceroys and governors, but during Aurangzeb’s 
illness there was no such rising. For, in spite of rumours 
becoming current that the king was dead, the nobles put no 
trust in them, fearing that Aurangzeb himself, out of policy, 
and in order to discover which w'ay each of them was inclined, 
had set these stories in motion. They knew before this that he 
was a very acute manoeuvrer, and he benefited now by being so 
considered. Otherwise there might have happened some great 
disaster or rebellion in the kingdom, the liberty of Shahjahan 
being dependent on Aurangzeb’s death and the coronation of 
another king. Thus it is with trickishness ; more often the 
deceivers suffer, but sometimes the habit is of profit to them 
[41 6is]. 

Aurangzeb now' found himself restored to perfect health, with 
the exception of his tongue. This might be called a proof that 
the illness w'as a warning sent by God to make him kind to 
His people. It was as if an angel had come from heaven to 
speak with him. He now began to announce to those who 
came to give him congratulations on his restoration to health, 
that God had first sent this illness and then given him back 
his he^th to let him see that, although He had raised him to 
authority. He could take away his life whenever He pleased, or 
give him health at will. Through this illness he had come to 
the knowledge that the followers of Muhammad were the beloved 



FiyAXCIAL MEASURES 


6i 


of God. He held it as certain that this illness fell upon him, 
so that at the beginning of his reign he should not demand the 
same great revenues that his predecessors had imposed upon 
Mahomedans. This is the reason why he decided to relieve 
true believers from the payment of revenue, and by this 
incentive open a door for all Hindus to embrace the faith of 
the prophet Muhammad, the beloved of God. To this intent 
he sent forth an order to all the kingdoms, provinces and cities, 
that the Mahomedans were freed from taxation and under no 
obligation to pay anything to the crown, except the duty on 
tobacco, which he afterwards remitted owing to a case w’hich 
happened, as I shall relate ( 11 . 133). 

He also said that the other cause of his illness was the 
collection of taxes from pagodas, w’hich are (be it said with due 
respect and without offence to our Christian religion) churches 
to w^hich the Hindus resort to pray in front of some idol or other. 
For, every pagoda paid to the king every year a considerable 
sum. It was very undesirable, he said, to levy such a tax, for 
thereby it looked as if he approved of idolatry. He therefore 
directed that such a tax should never more be collected. It 
should suffice for every Hindii to pay five per cent. Afterwards 
he repented of such liberality, and, indeed, he wished some years 
afterwards to rescind what he had done ; but for the sake of 
his credit, and also through his hypocrisy, he w’as prevented from 
carrying out this change. Therefore he invented a new* device 
for getting money. He continuously reduced the pay of his 
generals and officers, and ordained [42 bis\ that the rupees or 
coined money of silver, not worth more than fourteen sols {sous) 
of France, or thereabouts, should pass as w^orth twenty-eight 
sols} In carrying out this matter Aurangzeb did a thing which 
forms a lesson to princes as to the mode of making themselves 
obeyed. For the sarrafs, who are the money-changers, resisted 
the royal orders, giving various excuses for disobedience, in 
spite of their being sent for several times by the king to explain 
that reasons of state required the alteration. Nevertheless, 
these men, ahvays contumacious, ignored the order until the 

^ If, as stated in Part III , 51, 30 sols went to the rupee (16 annas), then 
I of an anna, and 14 sols amounted to 7/^ annas. 



62 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

king in anger sent for all the money-changers in the city of 
Dihll. Taking his place on his royal seat upon a bastion [of 
the palace], when the sarrafs arrived he sent them word, 
quite quietly, that their resistance must come to an end and 
the rupee must be passed at twice its former value. The 
sarrafs were firm in their contention, and replied that they 
could not comply, as the loss caused would be beyond calcula- 
tion. Aurangzeb, quite quietly, and without any movement of 
his body, issued an order to throw down from the bastion one 
of the oldest of the sarrafs. Upon the carrying out of this 
order, the rest, terrorized, said they would obey; and never 
another word was heard on the subject. Until this time 
rupees are worth double what they were in the days of 
Shahjahan, and thus the people obtained relief. 

The Dutch Ambassador. 

About the time when Aurangzeb recovered his health there 
arrived at Dihll an ambassador from the Dutch called Adrian^ 
to offer congratulations on the king*s accession. This man was 
of sound judgment, and thoroughly acquainted with the Mogul 
customs, having been for a long time at the head of the Dutch 
factory at Surat- Since he knew that those who bring the 
largest present and the heaviest purse are the most acceptable, 
the best received, and the soonest attended to, he brought 
a present for the king. It consisted in a large quantity of 
very fine scarlet broadcloth, much fine green cloth, some large 
mirrors, many earthenware dishes, bric-a-brac from China and 
Japan, and a small throne in appearance like a litter {cherolla), 
a piece of Japanese work with many pleasing paintings. For 
the ministers there was a large sum in gold and silver, with 
different kinds of cloth and other bric-^-brac. As soon as he 
arrived he began [43] to set forth to the ministers what he 

1 ‘Vies des Gouvemeurs-Generaux/ by J. P. I. Dubois (410., La Haye, 1763). 
p. 208. The Governor of Batavia sent, in 1662, Mr. Dirk van Adrichem, Director 
of Surat, as ambassador to Aurangzeb. A. farmUn was obtained favourable to 
their commerce in Bengal, Orissa, and Patnah (see Bernier, 127, and note ; 
Valentyn, ‘ Oud en Nieuw Ost Indien,* iv. 261). The farman was dated 
October 29, 1662 : Aurangzeb bathed on recovery, August 3, 1662. 



A DUTCH EMBASSY, 1663 


63 


desired. Thus in a few days leave was granted to him to be 
presented to the king, on condition of making obeisance first in 
the European, and then in the Indian manner. 

Thus, on entering the court and reaching the royal presence 
he did as he had promised. Aurangzeb was interested at seeing 
the European fashion in dress and their way of bowing. Coming 
to meet them, Morturacan (Murtaza Khan)^ took the letter 
from the hands of the ambassador and presented it to the 
secretary (i.e., the wazty). The master of the ceremonies, with 
his gold cane in his hand, took the ambassador’s hand, and 
placed him in a fairly honourable place along with the five 
persons who accompanied him. This was a favour accorded 
to them. For it is not usual for more than one man to enter 
with an ambassador into the royal presence. Then they were 
invested with a sarapa (set of robes) of brocade. 

Next Aurangzeb ordered the present to be brought, and above 
everything else he prized the throne, and, as it was ornamented, 
he had it covered with glass to preserve the pictures from the 
great dust, and until this day he makes use of it. Then he 
sent to say to the ambassador that he might withdraw, and he 
would soon receive his leave to depart. But the ambassador 
knew the vain-gloriousness of the Moguls, who hold it a point 
of honour to keep ambassadors dancing attendance upon them. 
They like to have a foreign ambassador always attending at the 
court audiences. For this reason he sent more gifts to the 
ministers, and succeeded in obtaining leave to go after four 
months. 

The letter that the ambassador brought for the Mogul stated 
that the Dutch Company expended in the Mogul realm large 
sums of gold and silver, besides importing a large quantity of 
spices, also copper and lead. But they were delighted to incur 
such expense in the territories of so just a monarch. As a token 
of gratitude for his justice, the Dutch Company, masters of the 
seas, offered to his majesty the use of their ships and fleets, and 
all that they held in India, being many fortresses, lands, and 

1 This is probably the BulAara Sayyid with that title whose biography is given 
in * Ma,asir-ul-Umara,’ iii. 597. He was head of the Chaukty or palace guards, 
and died in 1088 H. {1677-78). 



66 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


Aurangzeb goes to Kashmir. 

But already the hot season was near, and it was necessary to 
start for Kashmir before the sun's rays had increased in the 
land of Hindustan. In this he followed the advice of the 
doctors, and, above all, of Roshan Ara Begam, who longed 
very much to get rid of the hindrances of the harem and be 
able to indulge her libidinous propensities; furthermore, she 
wished to appear in the camp with more state than that used 
by Begam Sahib in the time of Shahjahan. Having decided to 
go to Kashmir, Aurang^eb selected his most faithful adherents, 
in whom he had much confidence, and deputed as governor 
of the city of Agrah one Osdarcan (Hoshdar ^^an),^ and as 
general of the camp Murtaza San. He gave fresh injunctions 
to rtibar San, the eunuch, to take great care of Shahjahan. 
Since Shah Shuja* had died in Arracan, as I stated in the other 
book (I. 247), the king sent an order, before his departure, to 
Mir Jumlah, directing him to conquer Axame (Assam). 

Thus Aurangzeb started from the city of Dihll on the 
6th December of one thousand six hundred and sixty [? 1662] 
at three o’clock in the afternoon, the joint decision [46] of the 
astrologers being that this was the best date that could be 
found for the king to start on a long journey, which must last 
at least a year, or even more, in going, coming, and staying. 

It is a strange thing how Monsieur Bernier says in his third 
book that this departure took place in sixty-four (1664) ; for it 
is a certainty that it happened at the time that I have recorded. 
Nor can I persuade myself how he committed so great an error, 
and suppose it due rather to the printer than the author, 
although he says in his history many other things far from the 
truth.2 

1 Mir Hoshdar, entitled Hoshdar Ehan. was the son of Multafat TTlign (A*zam 
Kha n, ' * Alamgirl ’), In the fifth year he was made 4,000, 3,000 horse, and 
appointed Governor of Dihll. In the sixth year he was transferred to Agrah on 
the death of Islam ]^In. In the seventh year the faujd^ri of the Agrah environs 
was added. He was long Governor of Agrah. In the fourteenth year he became 
Governor of a^desh, and early in the fifteenth year, 1082 H. (1672), he died. 

3 ‘ But I sympathize with him, for he was ever on duty in the house of his 
Persian doctor, Danishmand Kh an, and he more often encountered fraud and 
falsity than the truth. I frequently warned him not to accept what the common 



THE EMPEROR OS THE MARCH 


67 


There were rumours that Aurangzeb’s departure was not for 
Kashmir, but on a campaign against the fortress of Qandahar, 
then held by this King of Persia. But this story was false. 
The king, on leaving the city, rested for the night in an 
extensive garden called Xalemar (Shalihmar), planted by 
Shahjahan as a pleasure resort; it lies three leagues distant 
from the royal palace, adjoining the road to Labor. Here 
Aurangzeb halted six days to give time for everyone to make 
his preparations, and when everybody had joined the army he 
meant to begin his march. It is the custom in the Mogul 
country when an army is in the field to order a trumpet to be 
blown at nine o’clock at night as a signal that there will be no 
march on the following morning. 

On the sixth evening there was no trumpet, and the advance 
tents were sent on. With regard to this you must know that 
in the Mogul kingdom the king and many of the nobles march 
with two sets of tents, so that while the one set is in use the 
other may be sent on for the next day. To carry the royal 
tents there were set aside two hundred camels and fifty 
elephants, which were used for this purpose only. 

On the seventh day at three o’clock in the morning the 
march began. First went the heavy artillery, which always 
marches in front, and is drawn up as an avenue through which 
to enter the next camp. With it went a handsome boat upon 
a large car to ferry the royal person across any river when 
necessary. Then followed the baggage. In this way, when 
the morning broke, the camp was free, leaving only the cavalry' 
and infantry, each in its appropriate position. With the rest, 
in addition to the other transport, went two hundred camels. 


people said, and, being myself specially informed, I gave him the true events * 
(Venice Codex). The Venice Codex, fol. 179, has * i66i Considering Manucci’s 
own erroneous chronology, this reproof of Bernier is rather bold. Bernier, 350, 
says the start was on December 3 at three o’clock ; he gives no year, but the 
letter is dated December 14, 1664, leading to the obvious inference that he 
means December. 1664. Elphinstone, 538, gives 1662, December 6. The 
‘ Alamgimamah,’ 763, and, following it, the • Ma,^ir-i-‘Alamgiri,* 42, fix the 
actual start for the 7th Jamada I., 1073 H. (fifth year), equivalent to Decem- 
ber 18, 1662, N.S., or December 8, 1662, O.S. I have here compared six folios 
of the Venice Codex (fols. 178-186) with the Berlin text. 


5—2 



68 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


loaded with silver rupees, and each camel carrying four hundred 
and eighty pounds’ weight of silver ; one hundred camels loaded 
with gold coin, each carrying the same weight ; one hundred 
and fifty^ camels [47] loaded with nets used in hunting tigers, 
of which mode of hunting I have already spoken (I. 128). 

The royal office of record also was there, for the original 
records® always accompany the court, and this required eighty 
camels, thirty elephants, and twenty carts, loaded with the 
registers and papers of account of the empire. In addition 
to these there were fifty camels carrying water, each camel 
bearing two full metal vessels for the royal use. The princes 
of the blood-ro3^ marched in the same fashion, each according 
to his rank. Attending on the king are eight mules carrying 
small tents, which are used on the march when the king desires 
to rest, or to eat a little something, or for any particular 
necessity. Along with them are two mules carrying clothes, 
and one mule loaded with essences of various odoriferous 
flowers. 

It is the custom of the court, when the king is to march the 
next day, that at ten o’clock of the night the royal kitchen 
should start. It consists of fifty camels loaded with supplies, 
and fifty well-fed cows to give milk. Also there are sent 
dainties in charge of cooks, from each one of whom the prepara- 
tion of only one dish is required. For this department there is 
an official of standing, whose business it is to send in the dishes 
sealed up in bags of Malacca velvet, etcetera ; and two hundred 
culles (qtdis), each one with his basket of chinaware and other 
articles ; further, there are fifty camels carrying one hundred 
cases packed with sarUpil (robes of honour) : also thirty elephants 
loaded with special arms and jewels to be distributed among 
the generals, captains, etcetera. These arms are of the follow- 
ing kinds : swords, with their accoutrements ; shields ; various 
kinds of daggers, all worked in enamel and in gold, adorned 
with difierent precious stones ; plumes ; also things to give to 
ladies, jewels to wear on the breast and 'other varieties j also 

^ Two hundred and fifty (Venice Codex, fol, i8o). 

2 In the Venice Codex, i8o, the earlier composition, the contrary is stated — 
tnat the originals are left, and only copies and extracts taken. 



DETAILS OF THE ROYAL MARCH 


69 


armlets of gold, mounted with pearls and diamonds. Again, 
there marched close to the baggage one thousand labourers, 
with axes, mattocks, spades, and pick-axes to clear an}^ difficult 
passage. Their commanders ride on horseback carrying in 
their hands their badges of office, which are either an axe or a 
mattock in silver. On arriving at the place appointed for the 
royal halt, . they put up the tents and placed in position the 
heavy artillery". When the light artillery comes up, it is placed 
round the royal tents. Aurangzeb started at six o’clock of the 
day, seated on the throne presented to him by the Dutch, as I 
have stated (II. 42). To carry this throne^ there were twelve 
men ; in addition, there were three palanquins of different 
shapes, into which [48] he could get when he pleased. There 
were also five elephants with different litters (cherollas) for his 
use whenever he desired. Upon his issuing from his tents, the 
light artillery began the march from its position round them. 
It was made up of one hundred field-pieces, each drawn by two 
horses. 

The following is the order of the king’s march. At the time 
when he mounted the throne and issued from his tents all the 
warlike instruments of music were sounded. At the head came 
the son of the deceased SheWb Mir with eight thousand 
cavaliers. In the right wing was Assenalican (Hasan Ali 
!|&an), son of Alaberdican (Allah wirdi S^an).^ This is the 
Allah\virdl jj^an who caused Prince Shah Shuja* to get down 
from his elephant at the battle of Khajwah (I. 229). Hasan 
^All Khan commanded eight thousand horsemen ; the left wing, 
consisting of eight thousand horsemen, was commanded by 
Muhammad Amin S^an. In the rear of these two wings were 
the mounted huntsmen, each with his bird of prey (hawk) on 
his wrist. Immediately in front of the king went nine elephants 
with showy flags ; behind these nine were other four, bearing 
green standards with a sun depicted on them. Behind these 
elephants were nine horses of state, all adorned and ready 

^ * It was no more than a portable chair,’ adds the Venice Codex, fol. 181. 

2 AllahwirdI Khan, a descendant of the Saljuqs, died 1069 H. (1658-59) (see 
* M.-ul-U.,* i. 207). gasan ‘Ali Khan. Bahadur, *Alamgir Shahi, was his second 
son {ibid., i. 593); he died outside Bijapur the day after it was taken, 15th 
Qa‘dah, 1097 H, (October 3, 1686)* 



70 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


saddled ; after these horses came two horsemen, one carr)dng a 
standard with Arabic letters on it, the other with a kettle-drum, 
which he struck lightly from time to time as a warning that 
the king was approaching. 

There was no want of men on foot, who advanced in ordered 
files on the one and the other side of the king ; some displayed 
scarlet, others green, pennants; others, again, held in their 
hands their staves, with which they drove off people when any- 
one made so bold as to draw near. There were on the right 
and on the left many horsemen with silver staves keeping the 
people back. Among the men on foot were some with perfumes, 
while others were continually watering the road. By their side 
was an official provided with a description of the provinces, 
lands, and villages through which the king must pass, in order 
to explain at once if the king asked what land and whose 
province it was through which he was then passing. These 
men can give him an account of ever3fthing down to the petty 
villages, and the revenue obtained from the land. 

Other men on foot march with a rope in their hands, 
measuring the route in the following way.^ They begin at the 
royal tent upon the king’s coming forth. The man in front who 
has [49] the rope in his hand makes a mark on the ground, and 
when the man in the rear arrives at this mark he shouts out, and 
the first man makes a firesh mark and counts * two.’ Thus they 
proceed throughout the march, counting ‘three,’ ‘four,’ and 
so on. Another man on foot holds a score in his hand® and 
keeps count. If perchance the king asks how far he has 
travelled, they reply at once, as they know how many of their 
ropes go to a league. There is another man on foot who has 
charge of the hourglass, and measures the time, and each time 
announces the number of hours with a mallet on a platter of 
bronze. Behind all these the king moves on his way quietly 
and very slowly. 

So great is the dignity with which the Mogul kings travel. 

See the ' A,in-i-Akbari \{Jarrett), voL ii., p. 414: ‘Whenever His Majesty 
travels, the distances are recorded by pole measurements by careful surveyors.’ 

Holds in his hand certain pieces of wood or glass threaded on a string 
exactly like a rosary, and with these as they advance he keeps the count ’ (Venice 
Codex, 181). 



THE ROYAL STANDARDS 


71 


and the delicacy with which they are treated, that ahead of the 
column goes a camel carrying some white cloth, which is used to 
cover over any dead animal or human being found on the road. 
They place heaps of stones on the comers, so that the cloth 
may not be blown away by the wind. When he passes, the 
king stops and asks the why and the wherefore. 

[Behind all these squadrons rode on horseback the princes 
Sultan Mu'azgam and Sultan A'zam.]^ After the king came 
ten horsemen, four with the royal matchlocks enclosed in cloth- 
of-gold bags ; one bore his spear, one his sword, one his shield, 
one his dagger, one his bow, one the royal arrows and quiver ; 
all of these in cloth-of-gold bags. After the weapons came the 
captain of the guard with his troops,® then the three royal 
palanquins, and other palanquins for the princes ; then, after 
the palanquins, twenty-four horsemen, eight with pipes, eight 
with trumpets, and eight with kettle-drums. Behind these 
mounted musicians were the five royal elephants bearing 
litters {cherollas) ; also three elephants, one of which, that in the 
middle, bore three hands in silver upon a crossbar at the end of a 
pole,® covered with its hood of Malacca [velvet]. These signify 
‘ Observer of the Mahomedan faith.’ The other two bore hands 
in the same style, which signify ‘ Augmenter and Conservator 
of the faith.’ On the right of this middle one was another 
elephant, which displayed a plate of copper {lamina) upon a 
staff, with engraved letters in Arabic, meaning ‘ God is One, and 
Muhammad just.’ The other had a pair of scales, which 
means ‘a king dealing with justice.’* On the right [? left] 
hand was another elephant bearing a crocodile’s head, with 
a body made of fine white cloth, which, when moved by the 
wind, looked like a real crocodile, signifying ‘ Lord of the rivers.’ 
On the left went an elephant showing a spear, which means 
‘ the Conqueror ’; to its left again, another with the head of a 
fish having a body made of cloth, and when swaying in the 

1 The passage in the square brackets is struck out in the Venice Codex, 

2 In the Venice Codex this is the place assigned to the princes. 

® The word used is sirial {ciriaT)t the frame on which votive tapers are displayed 
in Roman Catholic churches. 

^ * Although I hold them to be unjust judges and true sons of Astrea * (Venice 
Codex, 182). 



72 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


wind [50] this looked like a great fish, and it means ‘ Lord of 
the seas.’^ All these elephants were decorated with valuable 
housings and ornaments. They were followed by twelve more 
bearing large kettle-drums, and other instruments made of re- 
fined metals not employed in Europe. They are of the nature of 
large dishes, which, being beaten one against the other, make 
a great noise. These musical instruments are employed by 
Armenians, Syrians, and Maronites in Syria at church solemni- 
ties and at weddings ; they are also used at such events by the 
Turks.^ After these musicians came Rajah Jai Singh with 
eight thousand horsemen, serving as rearguard. Be it known 
to the reader that each division of those spoken of had six 
highly-adorned elephants, with rich trappings, displa3dng on 
brilliant flags the device of its commander. 

At some distance from the foregoing came Roshan Ara 
Begam upon a very large elephant in a litter called pitambar,^ 
which is a dome-roofed throne, very brilliant, made all of 
enamelled gold, and highly adorned. Behind her followed 
one hundred and fifty women, her servants, riding handsome 
horses, and covered from head to foot with their mantles of 
various colours, each with a cane in her hand.* Before Roshan 
Ara Begam’s elephant marched four elephants with standards, 
and a number of bold and aggressive men on foot to drive away 
everybody, noble or pauper, with blows from sticks and with 
pushes. Thus I wonder when I find someone writing in Europe® 
that he managed one day to get near enough to see a woman 
servant whisking away the flies from Roshan Ara Begam, which 
is an impossibility. For the princesses and nobles’ wives are 

1 The passage is confased in the text, and I make out the total of standard- 
bearing elephants to be five, and not three. The Venice Codex presents the same 
difiaculty. 

® ‘ Ear-pierdng instruments which &tigue the hearers rather than delight 
them’ (Venice Codex). 

’ Platts, ‘ Dictionary,’ Pitambar, * clothed in yellow,’ a name of Vishnu. 
Hemier, 37^» speaks of it as wihduuher i^eghdontbar'), which is also a metaphorical 
name for an elephant. 

* ■ They seemed so many ghosts or spirits of the abyss, you could not tell if 
they were handsome or ugly, old or young, men or women ; for, let alone the 
fece, you could not see even the tips of their toes ’ (Venice Codex, 183). 

“ This is a covert allusion to the passage in Bernier, p. 373. In the Venice 
Codex, 183, he is named. 




XIV. Shah ‘alam, Second Son of Aurangzeb. 





PLAN OF ENCAMPMENT 


73 


shut up in such a manner that they cannot be seen, although 
they can observe the passers-by. 

Behind Roshan Ara Begam came her retinue, which consisted 
of several sour-faced eunuchs on horseback, with others on 
foot surrounding the litter; after these were three elephants 
with different kinds of litters covered in rich cloth. Still 
farther in the rear were many palanquins covered with different 
nettings of gold thread, in which travelled her chosen ladies. 
Following them were some sixty elephants with covered litters, 
carrying her other women. After Roshan Ara Begam’s retinue 
came three queens, wives of Aurangzeb, and other ladies of the 
harem, each with her own special retinue. It would be [51] 
very lengthy to recount all the details of this march, the Moguls 
being extremely choice in such matters, overlooking no detail 
that could minister to their glory. 

It remains to state that ahead of all this innumerable throng 
there always moved one day ahead, at the least, the Grand 
Master of the Royal Household, with other engineers, to choose 
an appropriate site where the royal tents should be unloaded. 
For this purpose is always chosen some pleasant spot. The 
camp is divided in such a way that on the sirrival of the army 
there may be no confusion. In the first instance they fix the 
site of the royal enclosure, which, by measurements I subse- 
quently took several times, occupies five hundred paces in 
circumference. Behind the royal quarters is another gateway, 
where the women live, a place much respected. After this is 
arranged they fix the position of the tents of the princes, the 
generals, and the nobles. This is so managed that between 
these tents and the royal tents there should be a wide space. 
The central space is encircled by scarlet cloths, having a height 
of three arm-lengths, and these serve as walls. Around these 
enclosing screens are posted the field-pieces ; in front of them 
is a ditch, and behind them are palisades of wood made like 
network, which open and shut just like the ancient chairs of 
Venice.^ At the sides of the gateway, at a distance of one 

^ Professor Dr. C6ggiola, of Venice, is unable to refer me to any chair 
peculiar to Venice, though there were folding - chairs there as elsewhere. 
Codex XLIV., fol. 184, has: *Che s’aprono e serrano come alle seggie che 
costumano gli Barbieri e molte frequentati nelli teatri di Venetia.’ 



74 OF KING AVRANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


hundred and thirty paces, were two tents, holding each nine 
horses, most of them saddled. In front of the gateway is a 
large raised tent for the drummers and players of music. 

Among the special royal tents are some where the king 
gives audience; these are supported by small ornamented 
masts, upon which are gilt knobs. No one else may make use 
of these knobs, only persons of the blood-royal. On the top of 
a very high mast was a lighted lantern, which served as a guide 
to those who arrived late. The tents of the rajahs and nobles, 
although high, must not be so high as those of the king ; other- 
wise they would run the risk of having their tents knocked down 
and being ruined themselves. 

When the king comes out of his tent to begin a march, the 
princes, nobles, and generals throng round to pay him court, 
each one bringing forward some short request, to which a brief 
answer is given. They accompany the king to the end of the 
camp in which they had halted for that day, then each departs 
to his proper place in his own division. Then the king joins 
the huntsmen, and announces [52] whether he intends to go 
hunting or not. When he so wishes he leaves the army, and 
is followed by only the men on foot and the soldiers of his 
guard. Everybody else continues the march very slowly. If 
he does not wish to hunt, the huntsmen move to their previously 
appointed places. When the advance tents come into sight, 
the musicians commence anew to play their instruments until 
the king has passed through the gateway of the tents. Then 
the small artillery is discharged, while the queens and ladies 
offer to the king congratulations on arrival, saying, ‘ Manzel 
mobarec ’ {Mmzil muh&rak), which means ‘ Happy be the 
journey.’ 

It should be observed that, although the princesses and 
ladies start the last, they always arrive the first, having taken 
some other shorter route. Ordinarily the women start after 
the bag^ge and move quickly. I knew that in this journey 
Roshan Ara Begam did not take in her litter her maid-servant, 
but in the latter’s place a youth dressed as a maid-servant. 
God knows what they were up to, in addition to drinking wine. 
The person who told me this was a friend of mine, a eunuch 



THE EMPEROR’S ARRIVAL AT A CAMP 


75 


who loved wine. The same story was confirmed after the 
princess’s death by several ladies of her suite, and much can 
be inferred from what I have already said at the time the king 
came to Dihll (II. 24). 

I GO TO DiHLI and then TO AGRAH. 

To describe here the royal camp would occupy much space 
and be very dif&cult, owing to its beauty, its order, and the 
number of people who collect on such occasions ; and every- 
body can infer, from what happens when a European monarch 
moves out into camp, what it is like in the Mogul territory, 
where the kings display indescribable magnificence. All I will 
say is that it looks like a great city travelling from place to 
place. For there are wanting neither bazars, nor shops, nor 
markets, nor sports, nor pastimes, nor gold, nor silver; in 
short, all that could be looked for in a flourishing city is to be 
found in this camp.^ Out of curiosity I marched with it three 
days only, and finding it did not suit me to go on to Kashmir 
while out of employ, I decided to turn back. I meant to go to 
Bengal, as it is a productive country where living is cheap, 
having also many Europeans in it [53]. 

This is why I do not write the whole of the king’s journey to 
Kashmir, although in its proper place I shall touch on some 
matters in Kashmir of which I have information. I leave it 
to the reader’s curiosity to read what Monsieur Bernier has 
written about that journey, although, if I am to speak the 
truth, he puts many things of his own into his Mogul history ; 
and I could, through his chronology of the times,® make it 
clear that he writes many things which did not occur — nor 

1 ‘The numbers of an army do not consist solely in cavalry and infantry 
soldiers, bat the majority are the feunilies and friends of the Rajahs and nobles, 
who all follow it ; the numbers being doubled by dealers of many sorts, gold- 
smiths, shoemakers, forgieri (shoeing-smiths), weavers, embroiderers, and money- 
changers, The followers are four times the number of the soldiers. When you 
talk of a division of 8,000 cavalry, the reader may assume that there are always 
30,000 persons. However badly off a soldier is, he must have three or four 
servants’ (Venice Codex, 184). 

* N. M. 's own chronology being persistently two years in arrear of the true 
dates, it is amusing to find this serious reproof of Bernier's inaccuracy. 



76 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDVSTIN 


could they have occurred — ^in the way that he relates them. 
Nor could he have been too well informed, for he did not live 
more than eight years at the Mogul court ; it is so very large 
that there are an infinity of things to observe. Nor could 
he so observe, for he had no entrance to the court.^ As . 
it seems to me, he relied for what he said upon the common 
people ; and if there is any good thing in his books, it is due to 
the information given him by P6re Buzeo, also to what I gave 
him, having then no intention of writing an 3 dhing. If I write 
now, I do so at the demand of my friends, chiefly Monsieur 
Francois Martin,® Director-General, and Monsieur Deslandes.® 
Thus I returned to Dihll, where I stopped several days to 
take leave of my friends. Then I started for the city of Agrah, 
where I came across the Jesuit fathers. I remained there for 
a while in the enjoyment of the conversation of my old friends, 
with whom I had been in the fortress of Bhakkar. I did not 
care to take service with Aurangzeb, but they had accepted and 
at this time were artillerymen in the fort at Agrah. They were 
urgent for me to enter the service ; but finding I would not 
listen to their words, they went and spoke to 1‘tibar ^an, 
fancying that he could persuade me. 1‘tibar IQtan sent for 
me, and on visiting him I presented a cup of crystal. Receiv- 
ing it with a pleased fece, he ordered robes of honour to be 
given to me. He endeavoured to win me over, and urgently 
entreated me to remain in the fortress and enter the service. 
He would grant me any terms I demanded, and allot me the 
pay I received from Prince Dara at Bhakkar. He would 
me captain over the Christians (which was what they desired, 
remembering how well I had treated them at Bhakkar). 

I tendered my excuses, and said in addition that I was most 

‘ ‘He who goes not into the palace will find it a very difficult thing to know 
what occurs inside. If medicine had not opened to me the road, I »hr.niH never 
have been able to learn the curious details of court life. It was medicine that 
opened to me the door of many nobles, and of the principal ladies of the palace, 
where I penetrated to the most hidden quintessence of their secrets. Monsieur 
Bernier could well have practised medicine, it being his profession ; but, for good 
and sufficient reasons, he refrained, for he knew that if he did he would be in 
danger of his life’ (Venice Codex, 185). 

® For Martin and Deslandes, see Appendix to the Introduction. 



HOW SHAHJAHAH WAS TREATED 


77 


desirous to see different parts of the world ; there was also the 
aversion [54] I had to Aurangzeb ; and equally the face of 
rtibar ijOtan displeased me — in fact, to speak properly, he 
looked like a baboon. To me it seemed that from one with a 
face like that no good deed could proceed. Nevertheless, I did 
not fail to go several times to court, as requested by Ttibar 
!|^an, he imagining in this way to overcome little by little my 
resolve and bring me to take employment. But each time I 
went to the audience served only to renew my determination 
not to stay in Agrah. 

Going thus several times into the fort, I noted that the imprison- 
ment of Shahjahan was closer than can be expressed. There 
passed not a day, while I and others were in conversation with 
the governor, that there did not come under-eunuchs to whisper 
into his ear an account of all the acts and words of Shahjahan, 
and even what passed among the wives, ladies, and slave-girls. 
Sometimes, smiling at what the eunuchs told him, he would 
make the company sharers in what was going on inside, adding 
some foul expressions in disparagement of Shahjahan. Not 
content with this even, he sometimes allowed it to be seen that 
he treated him as a miserable slave. Once an under-eunnch 
came to tell him that Shahjahan was in want of ^ papu2 ’ 
(paposh), which are slippers without heels, such as Mahomedans 
wear. He ordered several pairs to be brought, and the trades- 
man produced different kinds of pCLposh^ some of leather worth 
half a rupee, some of plain velvet, and some of velvet more or 
less embroidered. Some were worth as much as eight rupees, 
a very small thing for a great king like Shahjahan, even when 
in prison. In spite of this, the eunuch, immeasurably stingy, 
sent him shoes neither of eight rupees nor of four nor of two, 
but the common leather shoes. He smiled over it as if he had 
done some great deed ; and it was a great deed, being after the 
nature of his friend Aurangzeb, who knew from this eunuch’s 
physiognomy the vileness of his soul, and selected him to receive 
charge of his greatest enemy in the world, his father, so that 
by force of ill-treatment the wretched old man (Shahjahan) 
might die. 

I know not how it was with the others who were present 



78 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

when this was done, but certainly I felt it much. I knew the 
dignity with which Shahjahan had lived when he was free 
and Emperor of HindQstan, above all, when one remembered 
that rtibar i^an was formerly [55] a slave of this same 
Shahjahan, by whom he was given to Aurangzeb. This 
faithful eunuch made it his boast to do such-like things to 
Shahjahan : One day while a number of us were present 
and conversing, he (Shahjahan) sent him (Ttibar i^an) 
two violins he used, asking for them to be repaired and sent 
inside again as quickly as possible. The eunuch did not 
trouble himself about having them repaired; then three days 
afterwards Shahjahan sent to inquire whether they were 
mended. At this the eunuch flew into a rage, and with a 
vinegary face, sent them off to be repaired. Thus it was only 
after eight days that they were returned. 

It is easy to understand the nature of this eunuch from what 
he did to his parents. They came from the country of Bengal 
as far as Agrah, having heard that their son was governor of 
that fortress. They anticipated the receipt of something to 
help them in their old age and poverty. On reaching the 
gates, they stayed there several days, the door-keepers not 
consenting to permit their entrance, until they swore they 
were the parents of the governor. Thereupon came a door- 
keeper at the time of full audience (I was there myself), and 
reported to the eunuch that an old man and an old woman 
had been at the doors for several days. As they had been 
refused entrance, the old people swore that they were the 
parents of his excellency. 

For a little 1 ‘tibar !|^an sat silent, like one to whom some- 
thing has happened that he does not like, then said under bis 
breath, ‘Are the wretches still alive?’ He ordered them to 
be brought into the audience-hall. On their appearing, he 
inquired angrily who they were, what their names were, 
where they came from, what was their village. To all this 
they replied in such a manner that by this time 1‘tibar l^an 
could have no doubt that they were his parents. Recognising 
that most certainly they were such, he said publicly to them : 
‘ How have ye the great temerity to come into my presence 



ANECDOTES OF PTIBAR KHAN, EUNUCH 


79 


after you have consumed the price of my body, and having 
been the cause, by emasculating me, of depriving me of the 
greatest pleasures attainable in this world? Of what use 
are riches to me, having no sons to whom I could leave 
them ? Since you were so cruel as to sell your own 
blood, let not my auditors think it strange if I betray anger 
against you.’ 

He therefore ordered each to receive fifty stripes. Through 
the courage that inspired me, I took up my parable and told 
him the story of Joseph and his rise to the greatest place 
in Egypt [56], and how God made use of the cruelty of his 
brothers to raise that patriarch to the highest dignity. Then 
I made the application to his case, so that, quieting down, 
he forgave them, and ordered one hundred rupees to be given 
them, enjoining them never to appear again, for if they did, he 
would without fail take their lives. 

Let not the reader be astonished at the eunuch ordering 
into his presence his miserable, poverty-stricken parents, for 
it is against our nature to have arrived at high rank and 
yet not be annoyed at having to disclose the misery from 
which we started, and allowing it to be found out that our pro- 
genitors were of lowly origin; but it is notorious that all 
eunuchs, grandees as they may be, have no other than poor 
and miserable progenitors, who out of absolute hunger have 
sold their sons. Nor do they themselves hold it out as other- 
wise, deriving hence occasion to vaunt themselves of their 
own high abilities and great deeds, through which they have 
risen to such rank. 

It was very revolting, the strange manner in which this eunuch 
treated his own parents, and angered thereby I resolved to 
leave Agrah. This eunuch was such a close-fisted fellow that 
it soon came to his selling the dung of his elephants and horses, 
whereby he made ten thousand rupees. With this money he 
bought an elephant, which one day escaping broke one of its 
legs, and the populace, who in Hindustan are very free of 
speech, began to shout as a joke that it was no wonder the 
elephant broke its leg, for it was an elephant made out of dung. 
In spite of all this avarice, he built for a memorial during his 



8o OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDVSTAN 


government an outer wall (coirassa, literally ‘cuirass’^) round 
the whole of the Xgrah Fort, which cost him a great deal of 
money, it being good work and decorative. 

Of Eunuchs. 

Before setting out, since 1 ‘tibar Sb^an has given me occasion 
to speak of the race of eunuchs, I will give here a short account 
of that sort of brute. It may be that everyone does not know 
what is meant by a eunuch, and may imagine they are like the 
eunuchs of Europe who are employed as singers . . . [57].® If 
they are rich, they do not fail to have in their houses chosen 
women, with whom they have converse. If they cannot do this, 
owing to deficient income, they go in search of them in all 
directions, seeing that no doors are shut to them, nor do women 
hide from them. 

Among the other qualities of this sort of animal, one is their 
extreme covetousness in collecting gold, silver, diamonds, and 
pearls, and they are immeasurably avaricious. They are afraid 
to spend money even when it is necessary ; fond of receiving, 
niggard in giving. Still, they are anxious to appear well 
dressed, and when they are astride a fine horse, they are as 
elated as if they were the greatest men in the world. Well 
may they hold themselves in such estimation, for they are the 
favourites of princesses, who are very liberal to them, in order 
to win them, and from time to time get permission to enjoy 
that of which I cannot speak. They are useful for the intro- 
duction secretly of men into the harem, and through them 
a husband’s favour may be obtained. For the houses of the 
^eat are ordinarily under the direction of these persons. 

Another of their qualities is to be friendly to women and 
inimical to men, which may be firom envy, knowing what they 
have been deprived of. The tongue and the hands of these 
baboons act together, being most licentious in examining every- 
thing, both goods and women, coming into the palace; they 
are foul in speech, and fond of silly stories. Among all the 

* Probably what is meant is a fausse-bray$, or, as Anglo-Indian writers style it, 
a renny or rowm (see Yule, 771). 

> Some obscene details are here omitted. 



ALLAHABAD FORT 


8i 


Mahomedans they are ordinarily the strictest observers of the 
faith, although I knew some who did not fail to drink their little 
drop, and were fond of wine. These men are the spies for every- 
thing that goes on in secret, whereby they are always listening 
among the kings, princes, queens, and princesses. Fid5‘e Qian, 
of whom I have spoken ( 1 . 140), aware of the character of these 
monsters, did not allow such to be employed in his house, 
although he retained two young men [58] who acted as pages ; 
he was indifferent to the fact that this sort of people are kept 
in the houses of princes and great men. This suffices for a 
brief notice of what the eunuchs are. 

Of the City of Ilavas (AllahIbad). 

When the Jesuit fathers saw that I did not want to remain in 
Agrah, but was determined to go to Bengal, Father Henriques 
Roa (Heinrich Roty), a German rector of the College, earnestly 
entreated me to take with me two Portuguese friars, then living 
in his College. They were companions of others who had fled 
from the town of Chavel (Chaul^, and he (Roth) did not wish 
to be accused of harbouring fugitives. Although I did not 
burden myself willingly with such merchandise — for I have 
always held that he who flees from a convent is capable of 
other misdeeds — nevertheless, to be agreeable to the Father 
Rector, I took with me the two friars, turning them into my 
servants. In twelve days we reached Allahabad. 

I believe that the reader will be pleased to know that on the 
eastern side of this city is a fortress all of red stone ; it was 
King Akbar who ordered it to be built ; it is very handsome, 
and very strong. For, in addition to art. Nature also has helped 
to make it strong: the river Ganges, flowing on the north 

^ Roa (the form also used by Bernier) is Heinrich Roth (born December i8, 
1620, died January 20, 1667), a native of either Dillingen or Augsburg. He 
started for the East in 1650. Some of his work will be found in P. Kircher, 

‘ China Illustrata ’ (Amsterdam, 1667) ; Stoecklin, ‘ Weltbott,’ i. 113-115 (Brief 
aus Rom, 1664) ; and the pamphlet * Relatione . . . Rerum Mogul’ (Aschafifen- 
burg, 1665). See C, Sommervogel, ‘ Bibliographie de la Soci^te de Jesus,’ s.v. 
Roth, and Bernier, edition Constable, 329 note, 330. 

^ Chaul (Chenwal), twenty-three miles south of Bombay, now known as 
Revadanda (Yule, 210). It is given in Thornton’s ‘ Gazetteer,’ p. 212, and is 
marked in Constable’s ‘Hand Atlas/ plate 31. 

VOL. II. 


6 



82 OF KING AVRANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

or left side, directs its course towards the south until it reaches 
the fortress, while the river Jamnah, flowing on the east, 
at the right hand of the fort, forms a junction with the Ganges 
River beneath the walls. Besides these rivers, there issues 
from the rock on which stand the fort and its outworks a petty 
stream with blue waters, which is called Tirt (Tlrth);^ it goes 
by a straight course, like a tongue, between the two rivers until 
it flows into them. Just as if the said two rivers held those 
waters in respect, on account of their birthplace, they allow 
them to pass down for a long distance without their colour 
modified. Thus you can plainly see the waters of this 
streamlet flowing in the middle of the waters of the two rivers, 
Ganges and Jamnah. 

I observed this very specially when, during my stay, one of 
my friends named Aquim Momena (Hakim Mumin), physician 
to Bahadur l^an, gave me a dinner upon the said fortification. 
As it was the first time [59] I saw it, I showed my admiration 
of this work of Nature. For many gave me particular informa- 
tion, and told me that the Hindus worship this river Tirth, 
their story being that one of their gods opened with an arrow 
the spring from which the said river rises. Every five years 
multitudes of Hindus assemble and wash their bodies in the 
said stream. This yields a good revenue to the Mogul king, 
for every person who bathes in the river pays six and a 
quarter rupees. Such is the multitude of frequenters that in 
the crowding many are stifled. Nor on this account do the 
relations of the smothered persons make the usual lamenta- 
tions. On the contrary, they boast that their relations died in 
a state of grace and holiness, all of which is included in the 
word T%rth. 

These three rivers flow below the city of Banaras (Benares), 
ninety leagues from Allahabad, pass near the city of Patana 
(Patnah), forty leagues distant from Benares, then flowing 
onwards, water the shores of the small town of Muguer (Hunger) 
at a distance of eighty leagues from Patnah, and, continuing 
their course, greet the town of Ragemahal (Rajmahal) at forty 
leagues from Hunger. There they divide into two branches : 

* The Hindi word Tlrtk, a place of pilgrimage. 



BENARES AND PATNAH 


83 


one, keeping the name of Ganges, flows as far as Ugulim 
(Hugli) in Bengal, and from Hugll goes southward to the sea ; 
the other branch, under the name of Jamnah, flows near the 
town of Daca (Dhakah), where it mingles with other great rivers. 

We were some days in Allahabad, and the then governor was 
Bahadur l^an,^ who was absent on a campaign against some 
villagers who objected to pay their revenue without, at least, 
one fight, just as the villagers near Agrah do, as I have 
recounted (I. 83). Leaving Allahabad, I took the road for 
Benares by land, carrying with me a passport, as is the practice 
of all travellers. The route was level and without hills, and in 
eight days we came to the city of Benares, where we remained 
several days. This city is small but very ancient, and venerated 
by the Hindus, by reason of a temple there possessing a very 
ancient idol. Some years after my visit Aurangzeb sent orders 
for its destruction, when he undertook the knocking down of all 
temples, as I will state in the proper place (IL 116). 

In this city is made much cloth worked in gold and silver, 
which is distributed hence all over the Mogul realm, and is 
exported to many parts of the world. It is the fashion in 
Hindustan to use [60] this proverb: ^Toracana Banarismo 
Rana ’ [Thora khanS,, Banaras mon rahnd^ — ^that is, * Little to 
eat, but live in Banaras,’ suggesting that Benares is a nice 
place, with a good climate, productive land, and cheap food.^ 
Here I crossed the great river, showing the Allahabad passport, 
as is usual ; and by land I arrived in four days at Patnah, a very 
large city with bazars, the greater part thatched, inhabited by 
many merchants. For here is prepared much white cloth of 
fine quality. 

In this city were two factories, one of the English, and the 
other of the Dutch, seeing that here, besides cloth of cotton, 

^ Bahadur TTha n was sent against Bahadur, Bachgoti, in Baisw§.rab (Eastern 
Oudh), and after punishing this rebel a farman was issued appointing him to 
Allahabad sUhah, vice Khan Dauran. He was long governor there, and in the 
tenth year, 1077-78 (1666-67), was moved to Gujarat. He died in 1109 H. 
(1697-98) (*Ma,asir-ul-Umara,' i. 801). He is the man that has been mentioned 
so repeatedly, and was Aurangzeb’s foster-brother. 

2 In my time the young bloods of the city punned on its name, saying it meant 
hana-^as, or * Perfect Delight* 

6 — 2 



84 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


much fine silk cloth is woven and a huge quantity of saltpetre 
produced, which goes to be stored in Bengal, and is there 
loaded on ships for various parts of Europe. Bottles are also 
made, and cups of clay, finer than glass, lighter than paper, and 
highly scented; and these, as curiosities, are carried all over 
the world. When I was at Patnah I saw an Armenian friend 
of mine called Coja Safar (!|^wajah Safar) of Agrah. He had 
a letter entitling him to receive from a ^arraf (money-changer) 
twenty-five thousand rupees. On his arrival he learnt that the 
sanaf had become bankrupt. The Armenian dissimulated. 
As all the merchants knew him, they brought him cloth, and he 
took delivery up to thirty thousand rupees’ worth. He loaded 
up all this cloth, for Surat, continuing himself at Patnah. 
When came the time for paying the merchants, he, in pursuance 
of the custom of the country, lighted two candles in the 
morning as a sign that he had become bankrupt he sat at his 
house, with no turban on his head, a simple cloth bound round 
his loins, his seat an old bit of matting, and a dejected expres- 
sion on his face. A great tumult arose in the city, and the 
merchants thronged to learn the cause; there was a storm 
of questions, answers, and bad language. To all this he replied 
with a sad countenance, calmly, and without heat, by the 
word ‘Divalia’ which means ‘bankrupt.’ No other 

response could they get. They carried him off to court, but on 
the quiet he had given the judge a bribe of five thousand rupees. 
At the hearing he (Safar) produced the bill of exchange that he 
got at Agrah upon the 9arraf of Patnah, and made the defence 
that this 9an&f was the cause that he, too, was a bankrupt. 
The judge decreed that the merchants must take the bill of 
exchange and procure payment for themselves, being fellow- 
citizens of the 9arrSf. It was unreasonable that a stranger 
should suffer in a foreign country. The Armenian, being thus 
absolved, made his way to Surat [ 6 i]. 

At this time Dautcan (Da,ud Khan) governed the city of 
Patnah. This is the man who was unwilling to forsake the 
service of Dara, yet was forced to leave it because Dara, in op- 

1 This practice is the origin of the Hindi phrase for bankruptcy — diwSlS nikalna, 
to come out diwSlS (yrith lamps), from dlwH, a lamp. 



JOURNEY BY'JilVER 


8S 

position to all reason, expelled him from the service when he 
marched out of Multan. The prince acted on unfounded sus- 
picions, as I have recounted in the other part (I. 208, 217). 
I went to visit him, and he was very delighted to see me, 
remembering that I had been something of a favourite with 
Prince Dara. He gave me a set of robes {sorapa). He still 
retained much affection for the deceased prince, upbraiding the 
evil fortune that had pursued him. He said to me that if Prince 
Dara were still alive he would never have taken service under 
Aurangzeb, and now that he had accepted employment, he had 
been sent to govern Patnah. He was desirous for me to become 
his follower, making me great offers ; but as I wished to con- 
tinue my projected journey, I asked him to forgive me, as I had 
business in Bengal. He agreed to let me go, on condition that 
I accepted from him a boat for making my journey by river to 
Bengal, as a mark of the affection he bore me. 

I accepted the offer, and of the two horses I had I sold one ,* 
the other I embarked on the boat. Then I got into it, taking 
the two friars, with whom I was considerably incensed. We 
proceeded slowly, and arriving near an island, while our meal 
was in preparation I landed with my boys to go shooting, there 
being abundance of game in these islands, all of them unin- 
habited. Having shot sufficient for supper and breakfast, I 
returned to the boat, and every evening we slept close to the 
bank.^ 

One day during this voyage the boatman told me not to put 
any trust in the friars, for they were not my friends ; on the 
contrary, they had several times wanted to resume the journey 
while I was out on an island shooting. But the boatman would 
never consent, knowing that Da,ud l^an would wreak vengeance 
on him for daring so to act. I knew quite well that the friars 
were capable of doing this ; for the more I tried to please them, 
the more insolent they became. They did not recognise the 
benefit I was doing them, for no other reason than their being 
men of religious profession, recommended by the Father Rector 
of the Jesuits in Agrah. 

* Or, in old Anglo-Indian parlance, they Magoed' for the night (see Fanny 
Parkes, passim). 



86 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


I wanted to find out whether really they spoke thus to the 
boatman, and I learnt after some days that they again did as 
before. Thus, I was compelled to show myself [62] in a rage, 
and I said to them that if they did not amend their impertinent 
ways, I would abandon them on some island, and leave them 
at the disposal of Time and the wild beasts. I hoped that they 
would not thereafter venture to incur my displeasure. All men 
of wisdom know that with certain characters it is necessary to 
be resolute before you can make them abate their rage, and 
thus was it requisite to do on this occasion to make them 
thoroughly uneasy. 

Finally I reached RajmahaJ, the former court residence of 
Prince Shah Shuja‘, where I delayed a few days to see the ruins 
of the city, the dilapidated palaces, the great fallen mansions, 
the neglected groves and gardens. At this time the city was 
ruled by Miraa JanI, who had been the captain of Shah Shuja‘’s 
artillery in the severe battle of Khajwah. Upon the defeat of 
that prince, Mir Jumlah, who was Viceroy of Bengal, aware 
of the prudence and valour of Mir^a Jani, made him governor 
of this city. Here I satisfied myself that the affair of the cobras, 
which I related before I began to speak of the rebellion in the 
Mogul kingdom (I. 157), happened exactly as I told it then, for 
everybody gave me the story in one and the same way. 

From Rajmahal I continued my journey on the river to the 
city of Daca (Phakah), which was reached in fifteen days from 
leaving Rajma^. The city of Phakah is the metropolis of 
the whole province of Bengal, where a viceroy always resides 
who wields the greatest power, although when I reached it 
Mir Jumlah, the then viceroy, was not there, he having gone 
to make war on Assam, a campaign of which I will speak 
farther on (II. 74). The city of Phakah, without being strong 
or large, has many inhabitants. Most of its houses are made of 
straw. At this period there were two factories, one English and 
the other Dutch ; there were many Christians, white and black 
Portuguese, with a church served by a friar called Agostinho.^ 

^ MuUbaner, * Geschichte, ' 342, refers to the Augnstinian's church at Dhskah, 
Nostra Seuhora da Assnmp9aS,’ relying on Thevenot, rgg. But he does not 
mention the priest’s name. 



RAJMASAL AND THOMAS PRATT 


87 


Here I made the acquaintance of an Englishman named 
Thomas Plata (? Platt)/ a courteous man, who had from Mir 
Jumlah five hundred rupees a month. He was master of the 
riverside, and employed in building boats and making ammuni- 
tion for river fighting. This Englishman carried me off to his 
house, and I received from him many favours ; I shall have some- 
thing to say [63] about him after the death of Mir Jumlah (IL 75), 
through something that then happened to him. After some 
days I embarked once more, accompanied by the friars, traversing 
the great river of Phakah, on my way to Hugll. Having dis- 
covered that I had little time to spare, and that there was a 
shorter and safer route to Hugll, we therefore quitted the main 
stream and passed by a way between forests, which are called 
the Forests of Sunderi (Sundarbans).^ 


The Forests of Sunoeri (the Sunbarbans). 

These forests are renowned in Bengal for the ferocious tigers, 
the buffaloes, and rhinoceroses inhabiting them. In passing 
through them it is necessary to post sentinels at night, for 
often it happens that tigers swim out and enter the boats, 
picking out the most portly of the travellers and carrying him 
off to the jungle. A short time before there passed by this way 
a Portuguese from Chatigao (ChatgaigLw), one of those Portu- 
guese who know neither God nor eternity. His boat was the 
Julidy and his own name was Manoel Coelho. One day he said 
to his crew that they must land to cook food. They answered 
that it could not be done, by reason of the jungle being full of 
tigers capable of doing them injury. More ferocious than the 
very tigers, he flew into a passion and insisted absolutely on 

1 This must be the Thomas Pratt, Englishman, named on fol, 56 of Richard 
Bell’s ‘Travels/ British Museum, Sloane MSS., No. 81 1, who assisted Shah 
Shuja*. and was in command of twenty brigantines. 

® Sundarbans (see Yule, 869, 870). The use of ‘ matos de Sunderi ’ by Manucci, 
referring to 1663 {circa), is interesting and important as an early example of 
the modem appellation. He places the Sunderbans in their proper situation. 
Apropos of Yule’s remark about Sandarl being the correct transliteration, it 
should be noted that Manucci’s Sunderi (following the Italian or Portuguese 
vowel scheme) points to Sundarf as more correct than Sandarl, 



88 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


their landing. If any tiger came, let them tell it they were the 
men of Manoel Coelho, and it must therefore take good heed 
not to do them harm, otherwise such conduct would cost it 
dear. 

Intimidated by the threats of their master, the sailors landed, 
and hardly had they reached the bank when a fierce tiger snatched 
up one of them and carried him into the jungle. The others 
did not count their steps on their way back to the Julia, where, 
arriving more dead than alive, they made complaint that the' 
tiger had already killed one of them. Manoel Coelho inquired 
whether they told the tiger they were his men. They replied, 

‘ Yes, but the tiger made no account of our shouts.’ Manoel 
Coelho was courageous, and seized his shield with his left hand 
and his dagger (crisy with his right. The latter is a poignard 
made in the shape of a serpent (or bill-hook ?), the wound from 
which is usually incurable, they being tempered in poison. 
This is the usual weapon of the Malays.^ 

He (Manoel Coelho) entered the jungle boldly and alone. 
Following [64] the traces of blood, he saw the tiger tearing 
the dead man to pieces. He gave a shout, and the tiger, 
expecting to make a fresh prize, -with one bound was upon him. 
He parried the attack with his shield, and plunged the dagger 
into its belly so that the tiger died, while Manoel Coelho, 

‘ Tiger-slayer,’ — ^for so he called himself thenceforth — returned 
to the boat and contemptuously ordered the men to skin the 
tiger, and of it he caused a drum-head to be made. 

In the forest many fires are to be seen at night, and the 
common opinion is they are the fires of witches, whom in 
Bengal they call sangueny (Sankhini)® of whom there are many. 
It happened that in passing these forests a boat sent its people 
ashore to collect wood. A Portuguese youth, out of curiosity, 
penetrated into the interior, where there met him a beautiful 

^ The ‘ cris ' or * crease ' is the Malay sword or dagger (Yule, 274). 

2 I am indebted to Dr. Grierson, C,I.E., for this identification. It is a word 
adopted into Bengali, with the meaning of *a fairy'; when further corrupted 
into iminl, it means ‘a spectre.’ ‘a goblin.’ It is the Sanskrit iaMim, the 
third of the four orders into which women are divided. They have treacherous 
dispositions and harsh voices. Much unedif3dng information about these ladies 
will be found on pp. 128 jj^of Schmidt’s * Beitrage zur Indischen Erotik.’ 



SUNDARBAN STORIES— HUGLi 


89 


woman, with whom he fell in love. The woman made him 
a sign with her hand, and he followed her. She took hini 
to a place where, under the shelter of a great tree, stood a 
house. Every day she came to visit him, and brought him 
delicate viands. There he dwelt four years, when, upon the 
arrival of another boat, its crew landed to collect wood, and 
he was discovered by these travellers, who took him away 
from the tree, he being unable to speak. They took him on 
board, and two hours afterwards there was a great upheaval 
in the stream. This may have happened because his lady-love 
did not find him, and therefore attempted to wreck the vessel ; 
but by the favour of God they reached Hugll. The boy, being 
devoted to her, always cherished a longing for his companion 
and the tree. This happened in my time, and although I never 
talked with the youth, I knew many to whom he had told 
the stoiy. 

In forty days we got through the forest and reached the 
waters of Hugll, not far from the sea. The friars made for 
the harbour of Balasor, where they wanted to beg for alms. 
I disembarked at Hugll, and went to see the Father Prior 
of St. Augustin’s,^ named Frey Irao Bautista. Here I found 
the chief inhabitants of Hugll, all of them rich Portuguese, for 
in those days they alone were allowed to deal in salt through- 
out the province of Bengal. The father asked me at once if 
there had come with me two fugitive fiiars. I replied that two 
fathers had come, but they were not fugitives — on the contrary, 
they were religious persons much to be esteemed; that they 
had come to gather alms for their convent, and were gone 
[65] to Balasor. Thus did I repay the troubles they had 
caused me on the journey. But they did not equally return 
to me the good I had done them, as I shall relate (II. 67). 
The Father Prior placed trust in my words, and made 
ready two cells to receive the friars on their arrival, which 
came to pass a few days afterwards, when they were well 
received. 

^ Thornton, ‘Gazetteer,’ 390, says the chnrch bears the date of 1599, and was 
built by the Jesuits. The last statement is probably erroneous, as Htigli was at 
first a mission of the Augustinian Order. 



90 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDOSTiN 


My Stay in HfGLi, and what happened there. 

Some days after my arrival the Jesuit fathers came to visit 
me, and in course of conversation they said to me that they 
had a tiny church, and that only built of straw. They desired 
to construct one of stone, but the governor objected, although 
they were ready to pay him five thousand rupees. The 
governor was Mirjzagol (? Mirza Gul or Mughal), an old man 
of Persian race, who had been in Shah Shuja‘’s service when 
he fought the famous battle of Khajwah against Aurangzeb. He 
afterwards entered the service of Aurangzeb, and Mir Jumlah, 
who knew his prudence, made him governor of Hugll. This 
governor was determined that the Jesuit fathers should not 
build a church, and he issued orders that no one should work 
at such an edifice under penalty of losing a hand. 

The fathers begged me most earnestly to speak to Mirza 
Gul on this matter. To be of service to the fathers, I paid 
a visit to the governor, when we had a talk over the events 
in the recent wars, so that he took a fancy to me. He said 
to me that if he could be of use to me in any way he would 
do it willingly. Seeing an opening for carrying out the project 
of the fathers, who were with me, I explained to him, after 
many polite words, that I should be content if he would allow 
the fathers to build their church. This was the greatest favour 
that he could do for me. Then I presented to him their 
petition, which he granted on the spot. 

When they learnt this, the Portuguese were all amazed 
that I with a few words had secured what they could not 
obtain for five thousand rupees. This thing caused them 
to seek every mode of keeping me in Hugll, they supposing 
that, as I had managed so easily such a difficult affair, I would 
prove of benefit to the Portuguese should I take up my 
residence there. They found that I was not willing; on 
the contrary, I wanted to go back to Mogul territory [66] to 
practise the science of medicine, of which I had begun to learn 
the elements, and was continuing my studies. I knew from 
experience that Frank physicians are held in esteem by the 
Mahomedans. Then they thought to detain me by a marriage 



PORTUGUESE OF HtJGLI 


91 


to a young lady, with the promise of thirty thousand rupees 
and two pataxos^ loaded with salt, making in the whole one 
hundred thousand rupees, also a house furnished with every- 
thing necessary for a newly-married couple. 

I was really anxious that this contract should be carried 
through ; all the same, I made a show of not caring a rap, pre- 
tending, on the contrary, that I was absolutely determined to 
return to the Mogul country. The Jesuit fathers were never 
tired of trying to get a " Yes ’ from me, but though in reality 
desirous in my heart of assenting, I made a show of refusal, 
so that they might not fancy they were conferring any 
benefit on me; nor, if afterwards there chanced to be any 
quarrel, could they throw in my face the benefit they had 
done me. 

The friends with whom I had travelled from A grab to Bengal 
were anxious on this occasion to repay me for the kindness 
I had done them in taking them as my companions. They 
came to interview me, and by a long argument tried to draw 
from my purse three thousand rupees. They said if I gave 
them the three thousand rupees, they had the power of arrang- 
ing a veiy profitable marriage for me. They supposed that at 
the time I knew nothing of this proposed marriage, and thus 
they came confidently hoping to suck these three thousand 
rupees out of me. With an unmoved face I gave them my 
thanks, saying that I had no wish to marry. Worn out by 
talking, they had to quit my dwelling without the rupees. 

They (the friars) waited until a day on which my proposed 
father-in-law had prepared a luncheon, and intended to come 
with the Jesuit fathers and other of his friends to carry me with 
them to this feast. He meant to obtain my acquiescence during 
the meal. All of a sudden they (the two friars) appeared in 
the company. Everybody was pleased, looking on the friars as 
my friends ; and they were invited to come also to my house to 
fetch me and settle about the wedding. Those two men, who 

^ Can this be intended for patela, a large flat-bottomed boat ? (see Yule, 687, 
s.v. ‘Pattello*). Or, perhaps, it is merely the Italian patascia, advice-boat, 
packet-boat ; in French patache. Faria y Souza, in his * Asia Portuguesa,’ uses 
the patache for some kind of boat. 



92 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

sought nothing but my harm, began to give vent to the rage that 
they had against me, at not having been able to extract the three 
thousand rupees from me. They expressed their surprise that 
a rich man, having only one daughter, the heiress of much 
wealth, should seek for her the ill fortune of being married to 
a foreign youth, one [67] of little ability. On the other hand, 
there were many Portuguese, of good sense, of good family, 
well-established merchants in Hugll, who were willing to marry 
the girl ; if others were consenting to this union, they could not 
concur in such an injury being inflicted on the girl. 

Everybody was amazed at this kind of talk from the friars, 
they all supposing them to be my friends, as I had vouched for 
them ; and their words found acceptance in the minds of many 
present. The two knew that someone would come to tell me 
what had happened, therefore they cunningly took the initiative 
and came within the same hour to visit me. They said Hugll 
was not a good place for me ; it were better to quit it at once. 
The father Prior of the Augustinians was, they said, very vexed 
with me for obtaining permission for the Jesuit fathers to build 
their church. He had sworn that when he came across me he 
would thrust some insult upon me. 

As soon as they had left my house I took pen and ink and 
wrote a letter to the said father Prior, asking the cause of his 
displeasure. For it did not seem to me sufficient cause to be 
vexed, because a stranger had assisted in getting God glorified. 
Nevertheless, if I had offended, I would come to him for my 
penance. But it did not seem to me right that he should show 
signs of displeasure, as recounted to me by such and such 
priests. He replied to me that he had no grievance about 
my gaining the permission for the Jesuit fathers, but it was 
because they had promised him one hundred and fifty rupees if 
the negotiation succeeded, and now were unwilling to keep 
their word. Meanwhile there appeared the foster-brother of her 
who was to be my wife ; he was my great friend, and he told 
me all that had occurred. The story was confirmed by other 
friends, who had been present during the telling of falsehoods 
about me by the two friars. 

I came out of my house and went to the father Prior of the 



CROCODILE STORIES 


93 


Augustinians, where I made known what the friars were, for I 
saw now they were full of guile. I told him, as was the truth, 
that they collected alms not for the convent, but for themselves. 
They had tried to levy from my purse three thousand rupees ; 
but as I did not wish to give them this money, they invented 
falsehoods about me. They supposed I wanted to get married, 
whereas the thought of it had never entered my head. The 
father Prior approved what I said [68], and extracted from the 
hands of the fugitives the alms collected, writing to the convent 
of the said friars at Goa as to what he had done. He gave 
orders in his convent of the Augustinians for the preparation of 
a satisfactory account of the money. The said father Prior 
made complaint to me for my not having denounced them as 
absconders. I replied that under the impression that they 
intended to do better deeds than those they had committed in 
the Mogul country, I judged myself under an obligation to 
screen my neighbour’s faults ; but finding that they were acting 
worse than before, I held it now opportune to declare the truth. 

Crocodiles of the Ganges. 

My stay at Hugll lasted two months. I observed that the 
waters are full of carnivorous crocodiles, which live upon the 
dead bodies thrown by the Hindus into the Ganges. No year 
passes without the crocodiles killing several living persons, who 
go either to bathe their bodies or to draw water. The crocodile 
lies in wait, and with one stroke of its tail on the person’s legs 
knocks him down. A Portuguese was in the habit of bathing, 
and as a protection against the crocodiles, he had erected a 
palisade in the river at the place where he always took his bath, 
so that the crocodiles could not reach him. One day he went 
for his bath and began to undress; but a dog he had with 
him hindered his taking off his clothes. This angered the 
Portuguese, but still the dog would not desist from interfering 
with his master and keeping him out of the water. He had 
spied a crocodile, which, one knows not how or where, had 
managed to find entrance into the enclosure. The Portuguese 
tried his best to get rid of the dog, but the faithful creature 
would not allow his master to die. Therefore, growing angry. 



94 OF KING A URANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDCST^N 

he barked as if he meant to bite the man in whose house 
he had been reared. The Portuguese ordered the troublesome 
dog to be taken away. The latter, seeing they wanted to catch 
him, and that if they did so he would be unable to protect his 
master from the crocodile, jumped into the water where the 
before his master could enter. The crocodile, 
with one rush to the side of the water, laid hold of the dog. 
Thus was the man saved, and he then knew the meaning of 
the cries and noise made by the dog. 

There was another thing I wondered at in the Ganges — that 
is, frequently [69] the Mahomedans, as an amusement, get 
into a sTTiall boat, and try to catch a crocodile by sorceries, 
which are much resorted to in the country of Bengal. They 
take a pot and throw into it some flowers, repeating a spell 
over the pot. Then they place the pot in the river, and it 
moves of itself against stream. They follow it leisurely in the 
boat until the pot arrives of itself where there is a crocodile. 
Thereupon the sorcerer orders the crocodile to give a paw, and 
it obeys. This paw is made fast j then he asks for the other, 
and it, too, is fastened. Then the brute is dragged to shore as 
if he were quite meek, or merely an old woman. They kill him 
with their spears in perfect security. When I was in Hugh 
they killed a crocodile, which had tW in its stomach bracelets 
and rings of the women it had eaten. 

I know that it is not seemly for a layman to raise his eyes 
to the skies (ponere os in calum) when speaking of the ministers 
of the Gospel. Yet I cannot dispense with saying something, 
at any rate, to warn the superior authorities against sending 
such men to mission work as give an opening for speaking ill 
of the priesthood. Let them be vowed to poverty, and more 
gentle in dealing with their neighbour than those I encountered 
when in Bengal ; and if I must tell the truth, let them send 
priests more devout than those that were there. I solemnly 
declare I speak of no individual, nor wish to lay bare the fellings 
of anyone, but it is quite certain that the Mahomedans and 
Hindus, let alone the Christians, are not edified by the lives of 
some missionaries. I will not speak further from the respect I 
bear to those ministering at the altar ; what I here say and do 



MISSIONARY IRREGULARITIES 


95 


is for love of God’s glory, and that in all sincerity what goes on 
in these countries may be known in Europe. 

It appears to me that if the orders and instructions of the 
Sacred Congregation of the Propaganda Fide were carried out, 
as to the recall to their convents of the religious who have dwelt 
some time in the missions, there would not be so many com- 
plaints about the fathers, nor would they become the subject 
of conversation. What could be better than ' vacarent studio 
orationi et ministerio verbi, sicut decet sanctos,’ ^ and that they 
should remember that ‘ qui militat Deo [70] non implicat se 
negociis secularibus,’® as said St. Paul. There can be no doubt 
that missions are a great work, but missionaries must be imitators 
of the Apostles, who preached by miracles and not by hector- 
ing words. If I thought my book would not fall into the hands 
of la5mien, I would state some other matters, in the hope that 
sealous superiors might provide a remedy for the many dis- 
orders existing in India in this direction.® 


I GO ONCE MORE TO IgRAH BY LAND. 

Certain friends were very anxious for me to remain in Hugli 
to renew the proposals of marriage. But being quite ready for 
a start, I declined to listen to anyone. Two days after the 
above-mentioned event I quitted Hugh by land. Some imagined 
that I was not really going, for before I had reached Cassim 
Bazar (Qasim Bazar) they sent me couriers calling on me to 
return, saying that already the plot of my enemies had been 
discovered, and my father-in-law was anxiously awaiting me 

1 * They should devote all their time to study, prayer, and the ministry of the 
■word, as befits saints,’ Possibly a reminiscence of Acts vi. 4. 

2 * No Fi ffn that warreth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life ; that 
he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier’ (2 Tim. ii. 4). 

2 Mullbauer, * Geschichte,’ 343, relying on Cerri, 184, and Forteguerri, 
comments on the low standard of the Augustinian mission in Bengal ; the 
churches were in ruins, the monks avaricious, disorderly in life, keeping many 
servants, devoid of high culture or any knowledge of the vernaculars (Urbano 
Cerri, *i:tat present de l’6glise Romaine,* Amsterdam, 1716: Nicolb Forteguerri, 
‘Memorie Intomo alle Missioni,* still in MS. in 1832), Le Sieur Luillier, 
speaking of HQgli in 1702, makes the same sort of remark (‘Nouveau Voyage 
aux Grandes Indes,* p. 48 ; z2mo., Rotterdam, 1726). 



96 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

to give me his daughter as my bride. I paid no heed to such 
letters and promises, for I had by that time made up my mind 
to go once more to Dihll. 

I reached Qasim Bazar, at three days’ journey from HQgll, 
and here I saw that they make much high-quality piece-goods 
and much white cloth. There are in this village, which is 
near the Ganges, three factories of the French, English, and 
Dutch. From Qasim Bazar I took the road to RSjmahal, 
and there waited to see a Hindfl woman burnt, although I 
had already seen many. She had poisoned her husband by 
reason of her love for a musician, hoping to get married after- 
wards to this lover. But on the husband’s death the musician 
refused to marry her. Thus, finding herself deprived of a 
husband and her reputation gone, she resolved to be burnt. 
A great crowd collected to look on ; among them appeared the 
musician, hoping to receive from her something by way of 
memorial. It is usual for women who go to be burnt to dis- 
tribute betel-leaf or jewels. The place was a large pit. As 
she was circumambulating this pit, she came close to the young 
musician, and, taking from her neck a gold chain she had on 
as an ornament, she flung it round the young man’s neck, and 
taking him forcibly into her arms, jumped [71] into the pit. 
Everyone was taken aback at this, not anticipating such a 
thing. Thus did she and the youth together expiate their sin 
and the murder of the husband.^ 

From Rajmahal I made once more for Patnah, where I 
halted several days, spending a jolly time with some English 
and Dutch friends. I then started for Allahabad, and from 
Allahabad I went to Agrah, where was King Shahjahan, still 
kept with the same rigour as ordered by King Aurangzeb, who 
was then in Kashmir. The routes I had traversed are much 
frequented, full of villages and sarULes, food being good and 
cheap. 

Some time after my arrival in Agrah there came to my house 
a Dutch surgeon named Jacob, a fugitive from the harbour of 

1 The same story is told by Bernier without place or date (see Constable’s 
edition, 311). Yule, 882, quotes it from A. Hamilton, ‘A New Account,* edition 
1727, i. 278, who got it by h^rsay. 



A RESCUE FROM SATl 


97 


Goa, having killed a man when the Dutch blockaded the entrance 
to that place.^ His visit was most opportune. For the governor 
of the city, who suffered from a fistula, had sent for me to see 
if I could cure him. None of the Europeans living in the fort 
knew the proper treatment, nor was there any Mahomedan 
surgeon who would venture to deal with the case. I asked 
Jacob, who was unable to speak Moors, and was a poor, 
miserable creature, whether he had the courage to treat such 
a complaint. He replied in the affirmative, and so I went with 
him to the governor, and in a short time we cured him, when 
he gave us a considerable sum for our trouble, besides the 
presents sent to me during the time we were attending him. 
Thus little by little I began to turn myself into a physician, 
although I did not make bold to announce myself as such. 

During my stay in Agrah I went one daj' to make an excur- 
sion into the country on horseback, in the company of a young 
Armenian. We came where a Hindu woman had begun to move 
round her pyre, which was already blazing ; she rested her 
eyes on us, as if she appealed to us for help. The Armenian 
asked if I would join him in saving the woman from death. 
I said I would. Seizing our swords, and our servants doing 
the same, we charged with our horses into the midst of the 
crowd looking on, shouting, ‘ Mata, mata !’ [Kill, kill 1 ], whereat 
the Brahmans, being frightened, all took to flight, and left the 
woman unguarded. The Armenian laid hold of her, and making 
her mount behind him, carried her off. Subsequently, having 
had her baptized, he married her [72]. When I passed through 
Surat (II. 177) I found her living there with her son, and she 
returned me many thanks for the benefit done to her. When 
the king returned from Kashmir, the Brahmans went to com- 
plain that the soldiers did not allow women to be burnt, in 
accordance with their customs. The king issued an order that 
in all lands under Mogul control never again should the officials 
allow a woman to be burnt. This order endures to this day. 

^ The Dutch blockades of Goa were in April, 1637, October, 1637, fo January, 
1638, and January to February, 1639 (see Danvers, ii. 262, 264, 267). I suppose 
one of these is referred to ; or it may be the blockade of 1660-61, mentioned in 
Part V., folio 202. 

VOL. II. 7 



98 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDOSTAN 


The War in Assam. 


It is time now to tell what happened during the time that 
Aurangzeb was in Kashmir. I have already said that before 
his departure he sent orders to Mir Jumlah to undertake 
the conquest of Assam.^ It was the common belief that 
Aurangzeb ordered Mir Jumlah into Assam that he might be 
got rid of, dreading that, as he had thrown the kingdom of 
Gulkandah into confusion, and had known how to arr an ge for 
the conquest of Dara and the destruction of Shiva JI, he might 
likewise attempt by his devices to place someone else on the 
Mogul throne. 

Whatever might have been the reason for this order, Mir 
Jumlah at the head of his brave captains went forth to conquer 
a new realm, taking with him his loyal follower Diler Stan. 
Both were anxious to open to Aurangzeb a door for entering 
China. For that seemed an easy thing after the acquisition of 
Assam. Assam lies among mountains, is a very fertile country, 
most luxuriant in food-products and fruit, which are here found 
of various kinds such as we have in Europe — ^that is, pears, 
apples, peaches, cherries, grapes. With it as a base they could 
take Pegu, and through it enter into China. 

They left the city of JDhakah together, at the head of forty 
thousand horsemen, in addition to inftintry— these moved by 
land; and by way of the river he sent a large fleet commanded 
by Portuguese. These two forces reached, at a distance of one 
hunted leagues from Phakah, a small fortress called Aso 
(Hajo),® which, years before this time, the Assamese had taken 
from the province of Bengal. In a short time Mir Jumlah 
captured that fort. From this place he marched for twenty- 
days into the territory of Assam. The Assamese believed 
that if the fleet were destroyed it would be easy to eat up the 


r Assam expedition is in the ‘ Fathiyah-i-'Ibratiyah ’ 

?T f- TaUsh. There is a translation of it into French, through the 
Urdu of Bahadm ‘Ah, by Theodore Pavie (Paris, 1845). See Elliot and Dowson, 

Catalogue, i 266 (Additional MS., 25, 422); 
Sachau and Ethe s Bodleian Catalogue, No, 240. 

» Constable’s ‘ Hand Atlas,’ Ab, 30, Hajo, in the KsmrQp district of Assam. 



DIFFICULTIES OF ASSAM CAMPAIGN 


99 


land army. For it would suffice to block the way to supplies, 
and then the army would waste away. It was very easy to 
accomplish this, as the country is mountainous and the paths 
very narrow. 

For this purpose [73] a very powerful Assamese fleet appeared 
one day, and coming down with the stream in its favour, it 
looked as if it would swallow up all the Portuguese and their 
boats. But the latter warded them off, and the force of the 
current carried the Assamese past their goal, the Portuguese 
meanwhile making a great din with their mortars and match- 
locks. When the Assamese had passed their enemy they 
veered, but the Portuguese fell upon them with such impetu- 
osity that in a little the whole of that fleet was destroyed, some 
ships sent to the bottom, some captured, and altogether great 
loss being inflicted on the Assamese. 

Glorious and triumphant, Mir Jumlah believed that by this 
victory he already held the whole of Assam in his grasp. He 
considered that Fortune was in his favour. Not to allow the 
rajah to entrench himself in any fortified place, he continued 
to advance, the rajah always retreating and doing nothing but 
hindering the supplies, or killing any stray individual who had 
gone in search of forage or firewood. He awaited the coming 
of the rainy season, in which the floods cover the low ground, 
for which reason the cities and villages are placed upon heights. 

The Assamese finding, in spite of their killing all stragglers 
from the army, that the Moguls were not deterred thereby 
from boldly advancing, they tried a scheme for frightening 
them and killing them by degrees. It was as follows : To as 
many as they caught they inserted in the anus an iron like a 
Turkish padlock, which, once in, could never be withdrawn ; 

its shape was thus It shut up as it went in, and once 

inside it opened out, leaving the handle projecting. The poor 
things returned to the army lamenting, and died in a desperate 
state. The army of Mir Jumlah was terrorized, and after that 
experience men were very much more cautious in going to a 
distance. 

Mir Jumlah and his soldiers reached the principal city of the 

7—2 



100 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDOSTiN 

Assam kingdom, called Guergao (Kharganw),^ and fighting 
bravely, ejected the rajah. The latter retired into the moun- 
tains, and Mir Jumlah, after occupying the place, caused the 
tombs to be destroyed, which contained great treasures, it being 
the Assam custom to bury with the defunct the wealth that he 
possessed. It is the practice of these people® that when the 
master of the house dies they bury with him all his wives, con- 
cubines, and servants— that is, the tailors, .washermen, barbers, 
and others who serve in the deceased’s house, setting them all 
on fire after binding their feet. 

The city of [74] Kharganw is very large and fine, inhabited 
by rich merchants— that is, according to the stories told me in 
Phakah when I passed through it (II. 62). The natives of 
those lands take four wives. Here the women are very lovely, 
and they do all the work of the house, the men being indolent, 
except in war-time, when they all go forth to fight. When I 
passed through Phakah I saw huge boats which Mir Jumlah 
was spnHing loaded with the booty taken at Kharganw and 
other places. These boats had extremely high poops, carved 
with ugly, fear-inspiring faces. Their armament was of small 
pieces, swivel-guns (trilkoens) z.nd petrechos^ of bronze, of which 
the muzzles whence the ball issues were fashioned into shapes 
of animals— tigers, lions, dogs, elephants, and crocodiles. 

Finding that though he had captured the city of Kharganw 
he was still unable to overtake the rajah in his flight into the 
hills, Mir Jumlah continued to amuse himself in the said city. 
But the rajah blocked all supplies, setting fire to everything, 
and posting soldiers so that no food from outside could find its 
way into the town. Thus he continued hostilities until the 
arrival of the rainy season, which also fought for him. For 
food being exhausted in Mir Jumlah’s army, the soldiers were 

1 Guergao is evidently the Gharganw of Khafi Khan, ii. 153, 154 (Elliot and 
Dowson, vii. 266). In Constable’s ‘Hand Atlas,’ B&, 30, Kuriagaon, in the 
Darrang district of Assam, half-way between Tezpur and Sibsagar. 

3 The same statement is made by Khafi Khan, ii. 153 (see Elliot and Dowson, 
vii, 264). 

® The dictionary for petnchos gives ‘ ammunition of war ’ ; but that will not 
suit here, as it is evident that some form of artillery is intended. Is it petardo, a 
hand-grenade, or, perhaps, a mortar ? 



RETREAT FROM ASSAM 


101 


forced to eat the flesh of horses and camels, and anything of 
that sort they could find. In this way Mir Jumlah was con- 
strained to quit Assam, since his people began to die from such 
inferior food. But if it had been easy to get into, it was very 
difficult to get out of this country, owing to the floods, also to 
the ambushes laid by the natives. It looked as if Mir Jumlah 
would be quite used up there, and, had it not been that by his 
prudence he was able to manoeuvre so skilfully, his retreat would 
have been a disaster. He left with the Assamese a remembrance 
of his name. It was not for want of courage nor of deter- 
mination that he left to the Assamese their indigenous king, but 
because the mountains of the interior cannot be overcome, and 
the seasons were against him. With great difficulty he reached 
the fortress of Hajo, and strengthening its defences, resolved 
to go once more in the following year against the rajah. But 
little did he know what was in store for him, for already was 
drawing near the term of his achievements and the time to 
finish with his wiles [75]. 

Death of Mir Jumlah. 

Having put the fortress (Hajo) in order, he went back to 
Phakah to enjoy the wealth that by this victory he had added 
to his store. There in a few days he fell ill with a retention of 
urine. Perceiving Fate approaching to sever with her shears 
the thread of his life, he sent for his wife, to whom he spoke at 
length, consoling her by the fact that though he was dying he 
left a son behind and a grandson. For them he gave her some 
magnificent diamonds, which she was to make over to them 
herself. She was to receive them on behalf of her son ; and he 
charged her to have great care of the little one. Then he 
wrote a letter to Aurangzeb, wherein he informed him that 
there was now no time to display to him his fidelity, or to prove 
the eagerness with which he ever accepted any project that 
could result in His Majesty’s glory. He hoped that in remem- 
brance of his fidelity Aurangzeb would extend his fevour to his 
son, Muhammad Amin l^an; but above all he besought a 
favourable reception for his grandson, Mirza ‘Abdullah, so that 



102 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


he might be accounted one of the royal slaves. In a few hours 
the great Mir Jumlah, who by rebellion against the King of 
Gulkandah caused the ruin of that kingdom, who aided 
Aurangzeb with counsel, arms, and wealth in the seizure of 
Shahjahan, the beheadal of Dara, the seizure of Murad Ba^sh, 
and the extinction of Shah Shuja‘, ended in the grave all his 
glories, leaving behind him much to be said of him, both in 
praise of his prudence and courage and in condemnation of the 
treachery done to two kings — namely, to Qutb Shah, King of 
Gulkandah, and the great Shahjahan, emperor of the Moguls.^ 


The Case of Thomas Plata (Pratt). 

Aurangzeb received the above letter and the news of Mir 
Jumlah’s death while he was in Kashmir. He appeared out- 
wardly much disturbed at this misadventure, and at once sent 
orders to Da,ud Eban, who was, as I have said, governor of 
Patnah (II. 6i), that he must proceed to Phakah and take over 
charge of the Bengal province until he could send someone 
else. As Muhammad Amin Stan was at court, Aurangzeb 
sent for him and consoled him, saying that if he had lost his 
father, he (Aurangzeb) took his place and accepted him as 
a son. Then he ordered him to be invested with a valuable 
robe of honour [76], and increased his pay by one hundred 
thousand rupees, informing him that he might take possession 
of all his father’s wealth. He was made Mir Ba^shi — that is 
to say, captain-general of the cavalry of the empire. In a short 
time, as Aurangzeb said he would do, he was deputed as Viceroy 
to Labor ; in addition, two hundred thousand rupees were fixed 
as the annual pay of his son, Mirza ‘Abdullah. 

Upon Da,ud Ehan’s arrival at Phakah, he began to issue 
orders. One day it happened that some soldiers interfered 
groundlessly with a neighbour of Thomas Plata, Englishman. 

1 Mir Muhammad Sa'ld, Ardastani, entitled Mir Jumlah. then Mu-a^jam 
^^n, then J^Snan, Sip2disalar, one of the great ShahjahSni and 

'Alamgin nobles, died in Bengal, on his return from a campaign in Assam, on 
the 4th RamaTan, 1073 H. (April 12, 1663). His rank was 7,000, 5,000 horse, 
5,000 iSfOs^ak. ‘ Tari^-i-Muhammadi,' 1073). 



THE FATE OF THOMAS PRATT 


103 


Thereupon the servants of Thomas Plata ran out to find the 
cause of the noise. They interceded for their neighbour, but 
the soldiers abused them. Thus it ended in their coming to 
blows, and the servants, being unable to resist the large 
number of soldiers who had congregated, beat a retreat into 
their master’s house. Into it came the soldiers to renew the 
fight, breaking down the house-door. Upon this Thomas Plata 
seized his weapons, and aided by his servants and the Portu- 
guese who had joined him, began to slay the men directly he saw 
them, paying respect to none of them. He did great execu- 
tion, making use of a blunderbuss (espalhafato) carrying a good 
charge, and the courtyard being full of people, he discharged it 
without interval several times. 

At last, seeing that the matter would not terminate until he 
was destroyed, he ordered the best of his goods to be carried 
to a boat, and passed out by a door in his house which opened 
upon the river. He took refuge in the boat with some others 
who elected to follow him ; then putting out into the open, he 
gave the city a bombardment, and retired to seek a refuge in 
Arakan. There he said that, if his words were listened to, they 
might take JDhakah and the territory of Bengal. 

Da,ud ;^an, who in addition to his own good judgment 
had been to school under Aurangzeb, had recourse to the usual 
deceptions of his master, and wrote a letter to Thomas Plata, 
telling him that it was now time for him to come back to 
Dhakah. But let him not forget the execution of his agree- 
ment to bring with him the head of the Arakan king! He 
sent this letter in such a way that it should fall into the hands 
of the said king. When the king had read the letter, being 
ignorant of the falsehood of Da,Qd San, he fancied that there 
really was such an agreement between Da,Qd San and Thomas 
Plata, for he knew the Mogul king was very desirous to acquire 
Arakan. Therefore orders were given to remove the English- 
man’s goods out of his boat [77]; all his men were to be 
bound, and the vessel, along with Thomas Plata, he and his, 
was to be sent to the bottom. Thus were they got rid of, 
and Da,ud San’s mind was relieved of the anxiety given him 
by this man, knowing that he could do great injury to the 



104 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


province of Bengal if the King of Arakan listened to his 
proposals.^ 


Shiva Ji wounds Shaistah Khan. 

At the beginning of this my second part (II. 15) I said that 
Aurangzeb had sent his uncle, Shaistah !^an, to make war 
against Shiva JI in the Dakhin. As soon as he reached the 
lands of Shiva j! he took a small fortress called PQna. Out- 
side it he lived in a mud house that he had caused to be built 
near a tank. There he meant to pass the rainy season. ® 

Shiva JI sought every means of killing Shaistah Khan, being 
thus counselled (so they say) by Rajah Jaswant Singh, who 
would have liked to appropriate the treasury of Shaistah )^an. 
He (Shiva JI) came to the resolve to send bold and resolute 
men among the soldiers and into the dwelling of Shaistah 
^an. They were to pretend to be dependents of Shaistah 
l^an, so that they could carry out the plot in security, and 
digging through the house wall should slay whatever men 
and women were found therein. 

To put in execution such a plan, he availed himself of the 
custom among the Moguls of sounding their military music 
eight times in the day and night upon the anniversary of 
the king’s coronation.* This takes place near the headquarters 
of the general — namely, in the morning at six, at nine, at noon. 


1 I am indebted to Miss M. Anstey for some references in the India Office 
Recorife to this Thomas Pratt. In November, 1663, he demanded of the HOgli 
Council iga rupees for ‘extraordinary expences at the Durbar,’ attendants, diet, 
etc. He said his e^enses were much less than those of the Dutch, and he was 
really a 1 <^ by his office (Factory Records, HQgli, No. i). On May 19, 1664, 
the Council at Stoat wrote to HOgli deploring ■ the unhappy accident that befell 
T. P., hee did very rashly to give the occasion, but when he was besett round 
wee know not what a man may bee provokt to doe, especially when his life is 
eiigaged, wee ^ p^naded to think the Nabob may be reconciled when he shall 
me into consideration the Cruell attempt made upon him by fyreing the house 
about his eares • (Factory Records, SOrat, No. 104). On July 9, 1664. the HOgli 
Coun^ stopped Pratt’s wages till he cleared himself (Factory Records, HOgU, 

8» campaign in Grant-Duff, ‘History of the Mahrattahs,' 

Sy.Md^fi^n^ u. 172-175; ‘Ma,agir-i-’Alamgiri,’ 43. 

This would be the anniversary of the accession held on the first day of the 
sixth year, ist RamajOn, 1073 H. (April 9, 1663, N.S.). 



105 


ATTEMPT TO MURDER SHllSTAH J^AN 

at three in the afternoon, at six, at nine, at midnight, and at 
three of the next day. For his purpose he chose the hour 
of midnight, at the time the musicians began to play. Some of 
Shiva Jfs soldiers, pretending to belong to the household of 
Shaistah Khan, went back and fore saying to the musicians 
that, as it was a night of rejoicing, the Nawab wished them 
to make a great sound with their instruments, the whole of 
them playing together. This was done that no one might 
hear when they were digging into the house. 

The women heard the sound of the picks, and reported to 
Shaistah Qian. He paid no heed to their statements, being 
already somewhat elevated by wine, but said the noise was 
made by troopers driving in pegs for their horses’ heel-ropes. 
Shiva Jl’s soldiers entered by the hole they had dug. The 
women were in consternation, not being accustomed to see 
men in their apartments ; and thus they cried aloud, assuming 
there must be treachery on foot. The eldest son of Shaistah 
Sian, called Bujzurg Omedcan (Buzurg Umed San), ran 
in that direction sword in hand, but his valour served but 
to get [78] his head cut off, the soldiers of Shiva Jl using 
their swords against everyone they encountered.^ The women 
perceived there was a design by the enemy to assassinate the 
Nawab Shaistah San. They lamented, saying that Shaistah 
San was killed, and they blew out the lamps, so that no one 
might see him. 

The enemy rushed hither and thither, and, unable to see, 
eight of them fell into a tank. Shaistah San stood, spear 
in hand, ready to resist anyone coming at him. On their 

^ Manucci mistakes the name of the son killed, who was Abu,l Fath Khan : 
Buzurg Umed TTha n did not die till the 8th Rajah, 1106 H. (February 22, 1695), 
when he was governor of Allahabad. The ' Ma, 5 sir-ul-Umara/ ii. 690-702, tells 
us of Shaistah Khan*s doings. He '-eplaced Mu‘agzam ^an (Mir Jumlah) some 
time in 1069 H. (1659). He took up quarters for the rains at Puna, but went out 
to besiege Chaknah, which was taken after fifty-six days on the i6th Hijjah, 
third year (August 13, 1661). He then returned to Puna. Shiva Ji’s attack was 
early in the sixth year, which began on April 9, 1663. Abu,l Fath Khan was 
kihed. The report was received in Kashmii* on May 8, 1663 ; Aurangzeb was 
displeased, and thought Shaistah ]^an had been negligent. On May 13, 1663, 
Prince Mu‘azzam started from Kashmir to replace him in the Dakhin (‘ ‘Alamgir- 
namah, ’ 819). Shaistah Khan lost his forefinger {* Ma,^r-i-‘AlamgM, ’ 45). 



io6 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


finding him, he managed to kill one, but another delivered a 
sword-stroke, which cut off his index finger and severed the 
spear staff. These daring men heard the voices of the women 
who were saying that the Nawab was already dead ; and con- 
cluding they had effected their purpose, they came away to 
their own camp. 

I leave it to the reader to imagine the confusion exis ting 
in the camp during that night, everyone imagining that Shiva 
JI was in their midst and slaying all men without intermission. 
In this confusion Shaistah lean’s sufferings from his wound 
were increased from not being able to call in any surgeon 
for fear that, in place of a surgeon, some traitor might gain 
admittance. When Aurangzeb, being then in Kashmir, received 
a report of this treachery, it being a little after his hearing the 
news of Mir Jumlah’s death, he wrote to Shaistah S^an direct- 
ing him to proceed as governor to Bengal. In reply, Shaistah 
!|^an prayed His Majesty to leave him in the Dakhin, for 
he longed to wreak vengeance for his son’s death and the 
loss of his limb occasioned by ShivS Jl’s treachery. He took 
upon himself either to lose his own life or to destroy Shiva 
Jfs army and kill Shiva JI himself. A fresh order issued 
from Aurangxeb directing him peremptorily to remove to 
Bengal, but Shaistah l^an, anxious to gain a reputation for 
courage and also eager for vengeance, wrote once more to 
the king asking to be left in the Dakhin, where he would 
besir all the expenses of the war until Shiva Jl was destroyed. 
At the same time he wrote to his friends to save him from 
removal. 

His fidends at court did loyally all that they could to assist 
Shaistah ijO^an, but Aurangzeb was immovable in his determina- 
tion, and replied with severity that a man in a passion could 
never act with prudence, that the stay of Shaistah Hian in 
the Dakhin as leader against Shiva Jl could result in nothing 
but the loss of his army. He therefore wrote to him once 
again that without further discussion he must start for Bengal. 
Thus was Shaistah !^an sent against his will to take charge 
of the province of Bengal. When Shaistah Sian left the 
Dakhin, Aurangzeb recalled Jaswant Singh to court, who, [79] 



UDEPURI BEGAM DRUNK 


107 


instead of obeying, retired to his own territory. Aurangzeb 
ordered Mahabat ^an^ to march with all rapidity possible to 
take up the office of Shaistah Ehan and continue the campaign 
against Shiva Jl, sending also his own son, ShSh ‘Alam, not as 
commander, but as representative of the royal person in matters 
of parade. 

A Ridiculous Occurrence. 

The holiday in Kashmir gave rise to a ridiculous affair. 
Udepuri, a Georgian by race, who had been formerly a wife 
of Dara, became afterwards a much-loved wife of Aurangzeb. 
She was in the habit of drinking spirits, and that more liberally 
than discretion allows; thus frequently she was intoxicated. 
The other wives and concubines were jealous that Aurangzeb 
was so fond of Udepuri. They waited until one day this 
queen was in liquor, then went all in a body to the presence 
of Aurangzeb. He was pleased at such a visit, chiefly because 
they came in great glee, and resorted on this occasion to those 
cajoling ways, which never fail women when they mean to 
conquer their husbands’ heart. After a little talk, they prayed 
him to call for the attendance of Queen Udepuri, so that the 
conversation might take a more elevated tone. He sent a 
message to his beloved asking her to come and enjoy the 
cheerful hour. The maidservant replied that Udepuri was 
somewhat indisposed. 

This answer caused the other ladies to laugh loudly, hoping 
to arouse the king’s suspicions of something wrong. He 
therefore sent a second message that she should come only 
to show herself and please the other queens and ladies, who 
so desired. Once more the servants sent back word that being 
oppressed by headache she could not leave her apartments. 
This reply only made those jealous of her to laugh the more, 
and in this way Aurangzeb in person went to see the patient. 

1 Mahabat vTian in the fifth year (1662-63), had been removed from KSbul to 
Gujarat In the eleventh year (1668-69) he was sent back to Kabul. His formal 
appointment to the Dakhin is not recorded ; but, after ShivX JI’s attack on SOrat 
(1664), Mahabat TThan had an engagement with him in that neighbourhood. 
SOrat was in the Gujarat province (see ‘ Ma,asir-ul-Umara,’ iii. 590, 592, and 
‘ Ma,8gir-i-‘iUamgin,' 71). Prince Mu'ajsjjam at this time was about twenty-one. 



io8 OF KING AVRANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


She was all in disorder, her hair flpng loose and her head full 
of drink, Aurangzeb seated himself by her, and touched her 
with his hand. Thinking it was her servant-girl she asked 
(drunk though she was) for more. Aurangseb was upset by 
the odour of spirits and by such a request. He came downcast 
out of her apartments, and, although she did not lose the love 
he had for her, he turned in a fury upon the doorkeepers, who 
were bastinadoed for want of vigilance over the gates. 

During the time that Aurangzeb was in Kashmir his usual 
diversion was going [8o] out to hunt, of which he was always 
very fond. It happened once that, tired out, he sat down in 
the shade of a tree, having with him only one huntsman, a great 
favourite, who had formerly served Dara in the same capacity. 
They held together conversation on various subjects, and 
encouraged thereby, the huntsman asked Aurangzeb why he 
ordered Dara’s head to be cut off. Such a question put the 
royal person into some fear, and so he answered that it was his 
(Dara’s) ill luck. Then, rising, he made for the palace, where 
he commanded that this huntsman should never again appear 
in his presence. The mere sight of the man acted as a reproof 
for his unjust deed. 

Aurangzeb returns from Kashmir to Dihli. 

Finding that his stay outside of Hindustan was not of good 
augury, and his health having already improved, Aurangzeb 
decided to return to Dihli. Marching with the due slowness, 
he arrived in three hundred and three days at his court in 
Dihll. There he learnt that Shahjahan had sent in search of 
an European (Frank) physician, but had been unable to obtain 
one. He (Aurangzeb) judged it was now time to kill his father 
by poison. He therefore sent him a European who had formerly 
been doctor to Shahjahan when he was r ei gning emperor. At 
this time the man was his (Aurangzeb’s) servant. He expected 
that Shahjahan would never distrust such a physician, a man 
who had before served him a long time. But Shahjahan 
refused his services, suspecting what was sure to happen if he 
did accept. I could give the name of this person, from whom I 
received several slights while I was in the Mogul kingdom, but 



XV. Sultan A‘za.m Shah. Third Son of Auranozeb. 




ATTEMPT TO POISON SHAHJAHAN 


109 


I leave the dead to the good opinion of men and the judgment 
of God. Since, in thus speaking, I have a fear that the man 
might be supposed to be Monsieur Bernier, who is sufficiently 
well known, I add that he is not meant. He was a great 
friend of mine, nor while in the Mogul country did he practise 
as a physician. But he gave himself out as a mathematician in 
the employ of Danishmand S^an, a Persian by race, who was 
the most learned man at the court. 

The European, whose name I do not record, though he was 
of no use to Aurang^eb for poisoning Shahjahan, served to kill 
for him in that way !^alllullah Q^an, who betrayed Dara in 
the first battle and helped Aurangzeb on many occasions ; that 
Etalilullah Khan, who received a shoe-beating from his wife 
[81] ,• and that S-alllullah S^an, whose tent by order of the 
eunuch Primavera (Basant), at the fortress of Bhakkar, I 
covered from my cannon with old shoes and such like. Aurang- 
zeb was already tired of seeing this traitor still alive, and when 
he was governor of Labor he ordered him to court, and replaced 
him by Ebraimcan (Ibrahim Eban)^ son of Alimerdacan (All 
Mardan Khan). On his arrival at court, the king bestowed on 
him much honour, and ordered the aforesaid European, in whom 
Khalilullah Kban trusted, to dispatch him to another world 
through some cordial. The poison was very slow, and Elhalll- 
ullah S^an was many days in great pain ; when he died, his 
lips, hands, and feet were all black as coal. For this fine 
action, Aurangzeb made the European a man§abdar, raising him 
every month to double the pay he already had.^ 

The Ethiopian Ambassador. 

During Aurangzeb’s journey from Kashmir, before he had 
reached Dihll, there arrived ambassadors from Ethiopia, from 
Mecca, and from Basrah, to congratulate him on his accession. 

1 Ibrahim TThan , son of Amir-ul-umara, 'Ali Mardan Khan. tio67 H. (1656-57). 
He died in 1122 H, (1710-11). 

2 KTial jlullah TThan, son of Mir MIran, Husaini, Ni*amat Ilahi, Yazdi, died on 
the 2nd Rajab, 1072 H. (February 22, 1662, N.S.). This is nearly ten months 
before Aurangzeb started for Kashmir (* Ma,asir-ul-Umar§,,’ i. 775 » ‘Ma,5sir-i- 
‘Alamgiri,* 38 ; ‘ Tari^-i-Muhammadi/ 1072). 



no OF KING AVRANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDOSTiN 


Of all of these embassies I will say something, but as a preliminary 
I am obliged to warn the reader that I write for love of truth, 
and thus, although Monsieur Bernier was my great friend, and 
we carried on a pleasant correspondence, I cannot approve 
what he has written.^ 

For the Armenian Morad, one of the two men who came as 
ambassadors from the King of Ethiopia to the Mogul, confided 
to me one day, when he was a little elevated, what was the 
truth about the embassy. If there is any truth in the saying 
In vino veritas, we must believe more in a confidence made 
from friend to friend than in the pomposities recited to DSnish- 
mand !^an. It is not uncommon that one who poses as an 
ambassador should, in the company of the great, give himself 
importance, and having to speak of kingdoms and lands afar 
off, and of unknown kings, should say the thing that will the 
most profit him. But when his talk is with a friend, who can 
do him no harm, such a person may allow himself more scope 
in letting out the truth. What was recounted by him who 
gave himself out as an Ethiopian ambassador is not simply 
a story told me by a man who had been drinking, but he has 
since confirmed it at a time when he was quite sober. The 
matter runs as follows : 

Morad the Armenian had already some acquaintance with 
India, and on the accession of a [82] new king, he thought the 
time had come for him to practise some deception. For this 
he joined with a Mahomedan merchant, an Arab by birth, a very 
trustworthy man, who had a number of correspondents; and 
these two traded jointly firom Ethiopia to Arabia and Hindu- 
stan, and firom Hindustan to Ethiopia. 

It is necessary to know that the King of Ethiopia ca lls 
himself the king of musical instruments, and claims that no 
king can possess such instruments without his permission. 
Confiding in this his belief, he orders his music to play after he 
has dined, thereby permitting other kings and princes to sound 
their drums and set their music playing. These cunning 
merchants made use of this mad idea of the Ethiopian to put 
their plot into execution. They made a pretence of upholding 

* For the Ethiopiaa Embassy, see Bernier, pp. 133-144, 



FICTITIOUS ETHIOPIAN EMBASSY 


III 


the glory of their king, and going to him said that in the Mogul 
country was a new king, who had excellent instruments at his 
court, without having applied for leave to possess such royal 
insignia. The king told them they must visit the Mogul land 
and demand surrender of those instruments, and produce them 
before him. 

These words were enough for the merchants to equip them- 
selves for that embassy, buying slaves, male and female, for sale. 
As presents for the king they carried with them horses, and 
a mule striped naturally in various colours, so beautiful that a 
tiger could not be striped in a more lovely manner. I saw the 
skin of this mule, which died in Arabia near Mecca ; and of 
a truth it was a wondrous thing, fit to be presented to any great 
ruler. Furthermore, they provided two elephant tusks, very 
handsome, to lift one of which four men had as much as they 
could do. Also they had some horns of oxen, full of civet. 
They forged letters wherein the King of Ethiopia demanded 
from the Mogul the instruments, a few books on the Mahome- 
dan faith, and some contribution towards the restoration 
of a mosque founded in honour of a Darvesh, who had died 
in Ethiopia after coming from Mecca to preach Mahomedanism. 
The mosque had been destroyed by the Portuguese when they 
were in Ethiopia assisting the king in the suppression of a 
Mahomedan rebellion. The plotters then left Ethiopia on their 
fictitious embassy. 

I suppose that everyone of sober judgment will decide that 
this embassy was fictitious, simply from the requests entered 
in the letter. It is unheard of that a great king like that of 
Ethiopia should send to ask money to build a mosque. I [83] 
am willing to admit that the King of Ethiopia might have 
desired books on the Mahomedan faith, and for that reason 
might send a request to the Mogul king. Although, had such 
been his purpose, he could have sent to the Grand Seignior for 
them, who could more easily have given them, having under 
his rule the holy men of Mecca. These use the Arabic language, 
called the Sacred Tongue because Muhammad spoke it, and in 
it is written the Quran. It must not be translated into any 
other language, and from Mecca could be obtained the most 



II2 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDOSTAN 

exquisite exemplars. But tc send a request for contributions 
to repair a mosque, that is a thing incredible ! I do not say 
here that the King of Ethiopia wanted to become a Mahomedan, 
but I will admit the first part in order to show that the second 
has no substance. Thus it does not appear to me that Monsieur 
Bernier had any reason, in his second book, so greatly to decry 
the K-ing of Ethiopia on account of this embassy. He knew 
not how clever were the inventions of these ambassadors. 
Aware that Aurangzeb was a strong Mahomedan, and anxious 
to propagate this accursed faith, as can be seen in my history, 
they selected this bridge to arrive at Aurangxeb’s favour. He 
maHp it his glory to use such openings, and to pose as a spreader 
of the Mahomedan religion. Nor did he leave them without 
reward on finding that the King of Ethiopia was said to look 
on him as a zealous Mahomedan. 

These feigned ambassadors reached Mecca (? Mokah), where 
they sold some men and women slaves and some horses to 
procure funds for continuing their journey. In a short time 
they reached SOrat. There they sold one homful of civet, 
retaining the empty horn. At this time Shiva Ji came to 
SQrat,i and in seven days sacked the city, took from the ambas- 
sadors the elephant’s tusks, the horses, the other horn full of 
civet, and all the merchandise they had. With them was left 
nothing but the empty horn, the mule’s hide, the letters, and 
some slaves. In this state they were forced to ask the governor 
of Surat for some help in money, in order to continue their 
route as far as the court. The governor, looking on them as 
genuine ambassadors, gave them assistance in money, and thus 
they arrived at Dihll at the time that I was there. 

Aurangzeb received the letter of the governor of Surat, in 
which was given an account of these ambassadors [84] and 
their misfortunes at Surat. To tell the truth this — that is, 
being plundered by ShivS Jl — ^was the best thing that could 
have happened to secure them a reception at, and a favourable 
dispatch firom, the court. On other conditions, seeing the few 
presents they brought, it would have been exceedingly difficult 

^ According to Grant-Dufi^ ‘History of the Mahrattahs,’ 89, this was on 
January 5, 1664 (O.S.). 



CONDUCT OF ETHIOPIAN AMBASSADORS 


113 


to obtain a royal audience. Often it is of profit to be in misery, 
and frequently do mishaps lead to good-fortune ! These ambas- 
sadors, despoiled and almost naked, were very dirty and drinkers 
ofjagra?- This last is a kind of black sugar given to horses and 
elephants. It was chiefly the Armenian who was a great amateur 
of this beverage. They had no money to hire a house, but put 
up in the public sarOe ; and walked the streets, having no 
palanquin. When the Armenian met an acquaintance, he 
would draw from him some present to equip himself; and 
through dysentery caused by jagra, of which they drank so 
liberally, they lost several slaves. 

Monsieur Bernier favoured them in various matters, principally 
by speaking to Danishmand !^an, his disciple. This man was 
advocate in the cause of all the ambassadors who came to the 
Mogul country. Thus they obtained an audience. There the 
king conferred on each a sarapa (robes) of brocade, and directed 
that the sums necessary for their subsistence while at court 
should be disbursed. A short time afterwards they were allowed 
to depart, again receiving sarapa (robes), and six thousand 
rupees — two thousand to the Armenian, and four thousand to 
the Arab. By this division Aurangxeb wished to favour more 
the latter, being of his own religion, although he had a very 
ugly face and was very short. If the King of Ethiopia had 
really sent an embassy, it is certain that he would never have 
selected such an ugly being.® 

In addition he gave them a rich sarapa (robes) for the King 
of Ethiopia, and two trumpets of silver-gilt, with two kettle- 
drums and a cmja (^anjar), which is a poignard, covered with 
rubies. Here be it noted how diverse are the intentions of 
man ! The King of Ethiopia sent to claim these instruments 

^ Jogra (Yule, 446a, 4466, 9246), coarse brown or almost black sugar, made 
from the sap of various palms. 

2 The official account is that in the eighth year, 1075 H. (began March 19, 
1665, N.S.), Sidi Kamil, envoy of the ruler of Habshah, and Saiyid ‘Abdullah, 
envoy of the ruler of Hadramaut, with letters and presents, arrived before the 
Emperor. They received '^ila*ts and money gifts. Nine Arab horses, sent by 
Imam Isma'il, ruler of Yaman, were produced. The audience of leave-taking 
was on the 17th Shaww3,l, 1075 H. (May 4, 1665, N.S.) (‘Ma,asir-i-*Alamgiri,’ 
49. 50). 

VOL. II. 


8 



II4 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDOSTIn 


as the would-be lord thereof, and because the Mogul possessed 
them without his previous consent ; while Aurangzeb sent them 
in quite another spirit, declaring by this action that this king 
was his vassal. For it is the practice, when the Mogul king 
gives nobility to any of his subjects, for him to confer robes, 
trumpets, and drums. In addition, he gave them twenty thousand 
gold coins and rupees, and told them that he sent this money 
to their king because he was told there were not any such coins 
in Ethiopia. 

It was thoroughly understood that this money was not 
meant to reach Ethiopia, but was to be expended in the 
purchase of merchandise, as was really done. They bought 
different cloth-pieces and woollens for export to Ethiopia, 
some lengths of cotton decorated in gold and silver, also some 
pieces of silk ornamented with flowers, stuffs very rare in their 
country. He also gave them a considerable sum to be spent 
on the mosque, which money was also expended on goods ; and 
he added a QurSn and other books, those most esteemed among 
Mahomedans. Thus did the feigned ambassadors succeed in 
their enterprise. They came to the Mogul country poor and 
despoiled, and now turned their faces towards Ethiopia with 
considerable wealth ; mocking at two powerful kings — at one 
because they sacrificed his honour through the petitions they 
laid before the Mogul; at the other, because with lies and 
impostures they extracted from him a large amount of 
cash. 


Ambassadors of the Grand Sharif of Mekkah. 

The Grand Sharif of Mekkah, who is the head of all the 
Mahomedans, repented himself of not having accepted the 
money that Aurangzeb had sent to Mekkah early in his reign. 
The excuse had been that they could not accept such offerings 
from a son whose father was still alive. He now sent to 
Aurangzeb an embassy to offer congratulations on his accession, 
since there was by this time no one who contested the throne 
with him. The envoys were to find out if Aurangzeb would 



MEKKAH AND BASRAH EMBASSIES 115 

consent to renew the offering that he had before sent 

(IL i).^ 

The Sharif sent as present for the king a broom that had 
been used to sweep the tomb of Muhammad, and with it a little 
of the dust. Along with these gifts were sent some Arab horses. 
Aurangzeb received these ambassadors and their presents with 
great consideration. He redoubled his finesse on this occasion, 
displaying the greatest solemnity at the mere sight of the broom 
and the dust. He uttered a thousand praises of Muhammad 
and the broom, and pretended he was sorry he had not the 
honour of serving as sweeper of such a highly-esteemed place. 
Furthermore, he said nothing about the money he had for- 
warded to Mekkah [86], but told Danishmand Khan to speak 
to the envoys about it, and inform them that, finding the Sharif 
did not care to accept the money, he had already applied it to 
other objects. He believed that Muhammad must have ap- 
proved his good intention. Thus in a few days the ambassadors 
obtained their dismissal, carrying away more in the nature of 
honour than of presents. 

Embassy from Basrah. 

The embassy from Basrah made no great stir, although the 
Prince of Basrah sent his congratulations on Aurangzeb’s 
accession, along with several very handsome Arab horses, 
which are much esteemed. But the chief object of the 
embassy was the sending of other Arab horses for sale, and 
to buy cloth and piece goods without having to pay dues 
either on entry or export, which is the usual liberty allowed to 
ambassadors. This embassy, on receiving its farewell interview, 
was paid its expenses. Nothing more was said of them beyond 
their having brought some horses, which they sold well, nearly 
all of them having been purchased on the king’s account. 

Although the orders given by Aurangzeb to the European 

1 For what Bernier says, see ‘Travels,’ 133. The ofiBcial account is in the 
* Ma,asir-i-*Alamgiri,* 49. In Ramazan, 1073 H., beginning of the eighth year 
(March 19, 1665), Haji Ahmad Sa*id, who had been sent in the fourth year 
(1662-63) to Mekkah with 6,60,000 rupees, returns, bringing fourteen Arab horses, 
and Sidl Ya^ya, envoy from Mekkah, received audience. 


8 — 2 



ii6 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


physician to kill Shahjahan by poison were secret, yet the 
people observed that Shahjahan refused to take the man into 
his service. Thus they suspected something, and in this way 
talk against Aurangzeb once more prevailed, on account of the 
barbarities with which he was treating the old man. Nor did 
they fail to say that he was now without a competitor, and ought 
to seek his father’s friendship and beg for his father’s pardon, 
since, although Shahjahan was a worldly man, he remained 
all the sgmft his father ; nor was there any apparent crime for 
which he (Shahjahan) could merit to be so hated by him he 
had created. Already they had resumed their open talk against 
Aurangzeb, and it was publicly said that God had given strength 
to ShivS JI to inflict chastisement for such harshness. 

Aurangzeb feared a rebellion, as old troubles seemed to be 
renewed ; he therefore proceeded to secure his father’s pardon. 
He wrote him letters, in appearance most loving, filled with 
repentances, wherein he entreated him pressingly for pardon 
and friendship. Shahjahan declined to accept these protesta- 
tions, the evil nature [87] of Aurangzeb being sufficiently 
obvious. Not for this did Aurangzeb desist, but rather, pre- 
tending to be importunate, wrote more letters with more 
endearments, sending presents which delighted Shthjahan, 
such as hunting-gazelles, which fought together; hawks and 
horses, which also were used to fight each other. In addition, 
he asked his advice on various matters which had arisen in the 
kingdom. He told him he wished to live as an obedient son, 
but must be granted pardon for what he had done, there being 
no remedy for it now. 

To this Shahjahan replied with somewhat of resentment, 
although in appearance he seemed mollified. His answer was 
that he did not mind other things, but he could not excuse the 
barbarity by which Aurangzeb made his few remaining years 
of life weigh heavily on him by sending to him the head of 
his beloved son DaxS. Not contenting himself with having 
committed that piece of cruelty, he (Aurangzeb) had often 
designed the death of him, his father. How many times had 
he been obliged to behold the sepulchre of his cherished spouse, 
Ttj Ma^ial, where, simply to grieve him, he (Aurangzeb) had 



AURANGZEB AND HIS FATHER ii; 

sent the head of his brother Dara for interment after his 
barbarous beheadal. Therefore he (Aurangzeb) might rest 
assured that never could he obtain pardon for such wrong- 
doing. Nevertheless, as a token that he conceded a little 
something in the way of pardon and affection, he sent him 
some of the jewels which he had kept by him. Aurangzeb 
was satisfied, hoping by this concession to let the people 
suppose that his father had pardoned him. 


Chatganw is Taken. 

After the departure of the ambassadors, Aurangzeb received 
as a congratulation on his return to Dihll three hundred cart- 
loads of silver and fifty of gold from Shaistah Qian.^ They 
were sent as the revenues of Bengal, collected by Mir Jumlah. 
Aurangzeb, as a recognition of good service, sent him (Shaistah 
^Otan) an order to extirpate the pirates who plundered and 
disturbed the lands of Bengal. They were sheltered in Chat- 
ganw, a place granted them by the King of Arakan as a defence 
against the design, long entertained by the Mogul [88] kings, of 
conquering that kingdom. It was no slight matter they had 
before them in dealing with these Portuguese, men hard of heart, 
accustomed to kill even little children without a regret. They 
boasted among themselves of having reached the very acme of 
evil-doing. If anyone undertook to speak of these men, of their 
violence, and of their barbarous habits, he would find enough to 
fill several books. They were proud of their Christianity, but 
had of it no more than the name. Such was their cruelty that 
they did not even spare the priests who lived among them, and 
were little different from themselves. There were then alive 
some who had known a priest of some religious order who had 
acted as their leader. He went clothed in scarlet, and was 

1 After 28th Sha'bSn of the ninth year, 1077 (February 23, 1667), it was 
reported that in three days the fort of Chatganw, by the exertions of Amir-ul- 
Umara Shaistah Kh.an). had been taJken. It was renamed Isl^abad. 
Amir-ul-Umara, and his son Buzurg Umed Khan, and other leaders, received 
rewards (*Ma,agir-i-*Alamgiri,’ 54). For Bernier’s account, see ‘Travels,’ 181, 
182, and a reference there to Calcutta Review, liii, 1871. 



ii8 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


rq ll pfl Frey Vicente,^ who, recommended by a letter from Shah 
Shuja‘, came to Bengal and died there of poison. 

It was granted to Shaistah ^an to put an end to these 
men. This came about through the help of Antonio de Rego, 
a resident of Hugh. This man had at Chatganw a brother 
named Sebastiao Gonsalves,® who was the commander of 
these robbers. Shaistah ^han sent for Antonio de Rego, and 
held a long conversation with him. He requested him as a 
favour to help in the execution of the royal orders. He 
pledged his word that he and his brother should be well 
treated and receive high pay. Meanwhile he paid him twenty- 
five thousand rupees as a present, and fifty thousand rupees 
on account for his brother, on condition that Chatgaciw was 
delivered to him. The undertaking was made the easier by some 
of the Farangis having assassinated a great prince of Arakan, 
whereby the inhabitants feared the vengeance of that king 
and the destruction of Chatganw. Sebastiao Gonsalves wrote 
to his brother inviting the Mogul fleet to come as far as the 
island of Sundiva (Sandwipa).® He would find some method 
of handing over Chatganw, but the fact must be kept secret. 
They must not delay. It was done accordingly ; and without 
any loss of life ChatgSnw fell into the hands of the Moguls. 
Shaistah l^an fulfilled his word, giving high pay to the principal 
men among the Farangis. Thus was Bengal delivered from 
these attacks. 

^ Possibly the same as Bernier’s Fra Joan, Augustinian (p. 179). 

^ Sebastian Gonzalves Tibao, formerly a common sailor, is mentioned in 
Bernier, 178, as a Farangi leader about 1632 (see also Constable’s note). Stewart, 
‘ History of Bengal,’ 206-210, relying on Manuel de Faria y Souza, gives many 
details, but he makes this man flourish in 1607 (see the text of * Asia Portuguesa, ’ 
Lisbon, 1675, iii. 175, years 1603-9, and 269, year 1615). Gonzalves mtgM have 
been alive as late as 1665-66; but more probably Manucci got the name of 
Gonzalves from Faria y Souza’s work (to which he had access), and, postdating 
the story, adapted it to Shaistah Khan’s capture of Chatganw. 

® Sundiva (Sandwipa) was held by Sebastian Gonzalves. It is a fertile island 
lying at the mouth of the Megna River, and abounding in cattle; it is about 
eighteen miles long, and six broad. Lat. 20® 30', long. 91® 32' (Thornton, 
‘ Gazetteer,’ 944). 



PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS 


119 


The King widens the Gates of DihlI. 

Finding himself delivered from many dangers, and only the 
war against [89] Shiva Jl on his hands (and of that he thought 
very lightly), Aurangzeb took it into his head to confer a benefit 
on the people. He knew that the gates of DihlI towards 
Labor were not sufficiently wide to allow entrance to the 
large quantity of supplies that came from that direction. 
Frequently horsemen were obliged to wait a long time at 
the gate; and several times the king himself, on his way to 
hunt, was forced to retrace his steps, not being able to pass. 
He issued an order for three gates to be made at this place. 
To carry this out it was necessary to knock down several 
mansions, the cost of which was paid for by the king without 
hesitation. 

About this time he also sent an order to build at his charges 
a wall in the nature of a bastion to protect the city of Labor 
from the river then encroaching on it. This wall had a length 
of a league and a half. Also, because Shiva Jl was plundering 
in all directions in the kingdom of the Dakhin, he gave an order 
that, without oppressing the people, walls should be built round 
the cities of Aurangabad and Burhanpur, which about this 
time had been sacked by Shiva Jl. He had carried off four 
hundred Mahomedan girls because the Mahomedans had inter- 
fered with Hindu women in his territories. To make a mock 
of Shiva Jl, the Mahomedans had killed cows in temples ; in 
retaliation he, too, ordered the throats of pigs to be cut in 
the mosques of the Mahomedans. This was to demonstrate 
his valour and power of defying the Mogul armies. 

In these days there fell a meteorolite, the size of a large pot, 
close to the city of Ujjain, which lies near the Rana’s boundary. 
The governor, with the idea of doing a thing that would please 
Aurangzeb, had the stone dug out of the ground and sent it 
to the DihlI court. But the king, with a show of complying 
with the counsels of God, would not look at this marvel, but 
ordered it to be carried back and placed where it had been 
taken from. He said that it was not right to oppose the will 



120 


OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDDSTJN 


of God, who knew wherefore He had sent this aerolite to that 
particular place. 

By this time the memory of DaxS was so buried that no one 
spoke any longer of him, when an order was sent to demolish 
the famous palace of that prince at Labor. ^ On the site of 
the palace a great mosque was to be erected, and it took ten 
years to finish this work of devoutness. Upon it was spent 
the sum that Aurangzeb had sent [90] to Mekkah, which the 
Sharif would not receive because Shahjahan was living, as I 
have already mentioned more than once (II., fols. i, 84). Thus 
was he enabled to fulfil the vow he had made of an offering 
on behalf of Muhammad. 

Rajah Jai Singh proceeds against Shiva Ji. 

Although at first Aurangzeb did not pay much attention to 
the war against Shiva JI, still, he could not help noticing that 
this prince was continuously increasing in strength. He either 
captured Mogul forts or appropriated towns belonging to 
Bijapur. Mahi-bat iO^an, in spite of having a large army, 
could not restrain the fury of this robber. While Mahabat 
!Oian was investing a fortress, Shiva JI went off once more 
and plundered Surat. 

Aurangzeb called to his presence Rajah Jai Singh, in whose 
prudence and valour he had great confidence, and in a friendly 
way said he could no longer endure the insults of ShivS. Jlj 
therefore he had come to the resolve that he would go in person 
against this rebel. For it was necessary either that he should 
go on this campaign, or that Rajah Jai Singh should undertake 
to suppress Shivt JI. Rajah Jai Singh, with due politeness, 
replied to Aurangzeb that if His Majesty would deign to take 
a rest, and do him the honour of appointing him to this 
expedition, he would take upon himself the defeat of Shiva 
Jl, would repress his assaults, and, if necessary. His Majesty 
so requiring, would deliver him into his hands alive. 

Upon receiving this answer, Aurangzeb took off the small 

* The ‘ Ma, 5 ^r-ul-Uinara,’ i. 158, tells ns that a fine house was built at LShor 
by Yanfin.ud'daulah, Asaf ; he bequeathed it to Shshjahsn, by whom it 
was given to DarS Shnkoh. 



MANUCCI ENTERS JAl SINGH'S SERVICE 


I2I 


cabaya (qaba) he was wearing next his body and gave it to 
the rajah to put on, and taking from his neck the necklace 
of pearls that he usually wore, placed it round his neck, adding 
that he might choose the commanders to serve under him 
on this expedition. But it was necessary to make haste, 
for in energy consisted all good performance. The rajah 
came out of the presence of Aurangzeb, and at once sent for 
cavalry from his territory, and sixty lakhs of rupees.^ Every 
ten lakhs makes a million; thus he brought six millions of 
rupees to provide for expenses in addition to the large sums 
given him by Aurangzeb. The rajah chose as his second in 
command the renowned Diler Qtan,® who took part in all 
the important wars waged by Aurangzeb. With him went 
Da,ud formerly Governor of Patnah and temporary 

viceroy of Bengal, of whom I have already spoken. Along 
with these went many rajahs and brave captains [91]. 

The king having arrived at Dihll from Kashmir, I went 
several times to make my bow to Rajah Jai Singh, who took 
a fancy to me, and in the end requested me to teach him 
how to play Hombre, as I had already done to his son, 
Queretsing (Kirat Singh).® Several times we played together, 
and we two won from the said rajah some sums of money. At 
this time Rajah Jai Singh said he had need of me. He wanted 
me to join him in this most important enterprise, and he would 
make me commander of his artillery. For this purpose I must 
search for Europeans I knew, and who were good soldiers. 
Afterwards he would entrust other business to me. Meanwhile 
he fixed my pay at ten rupees a day. I could not resist his 
proposal, and I had great trust in his word; nor did I like 

^ Jai Singh's appointment to the Dakhin was made in the seventh year, 
1074 H., after the 21st Qa^dah, or June 16, 1664 (‘ Ma,agir-i-‘Alamgiri, 48, 
line 16). 

*•* For Diler ^an, see ante, note to I. 167, and for Da,Qd Khan, ante, note to 
I. 209. 

® Kirat Singh seems to have been the second son. He died in Rabi* II., 
1084 H. (July, 1673), six years after his father. Kirat Singh's daughter married 
*Agim-ush-shan, second son of Muhammad Mu'a^am, Shah ‘Alam, son and 
successor of ‘Alamgir Aurangzeb. This lady became the mother of Muhammad 
Karim, killed 1124 H. (1712) (‘Ma,asir-ul-Umara,' ii. 156, and <Tari^-i- 
Muhammadi,’ year 1084 H.). 



122 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


to offend him at such a time. For I had not yet the boldness 
to announce myself as a physician. He gave me a rich sarapa 
(set of robes), and a good horse, with sufficient money for my 
equipment. 

Everything having been arranged, we quitted Dihll with a 
strong force. Aurangzeb ordered Mahabat !|^an to return to 
the government of Gujarat, and Bahadur aan,^ the king’s 
foster-brother, was ordered to return to court. At this 
happened an amusing affair. Bahadur Sian, as the king’s 
foster-brother, had been lifted from an obscure position to tbqt 
of a general. He had become very high and mighty and vain- 
glorious. Everyone arriving from court was asked eagerly as 
to the king’s health, not calling him by his title, but speaking 
of him as his brother ; thus he used to say, ‘ How is my brother ?’ 
Mahabat i^an decided to teach him a lesson. On reaching 
Gujarat, he took his seat in his tent and arranged with his 
foster-brother that when Bahadur i^an was there he should, 
richly dad and with an aigrette of gold stuck into his turban, 
gallop past on a fine horse, acting the braggart, as if on his 
way to his own quarters. Bahadur lOian wondered at this per- 
formance, and asked who was that mighty warrior. Mahabat 
^an did not use the man’s name, but, assuming an innocent 
air, he said briefly: ‘These foster-brothers are shameless 
creatures, and have no tact in what they do. They fancy that, 
being our brothers by milk, they are equal members of our 
house !’ Bahadur Khan quite saw the hit, but pretended not to. 
Nor by this was he turned from his line of conduct. For the 
proverb is a true one : ‘ However many stratagems a m an 
possesses, they sooner or later ruin him ’ [92]. 

Two thinp happened to me during this march. The first 
was that, being dressed in the costume of the country, I fastened 
my gown or cabaya (qaba) on the right side, as is the fashion of 
Mahomedans. The Hindus fasten theirs on the left. I also 
went with my beard shaved, wearing only moustaches like the 

» The only trace of Bahadur mn’s ^n Jahan, KokaltSsh) service at this 
time m those parts is in the • Ma,agir-ul Umara,’ L 801. where he is said, in the 
ye&r (1667-68), to have replaced Mahabat ]aan in the government of 
Gujarat, which extended as far south as Siirat. 



JAl SmOWS MARCH TO THE DAKHIH 


123 


Rajputs, but without pearls hanging from my ears as they 
have. The Rajput officers wondered at this get-up, neither 
Rajput nor Mahomedan. They asked me what religion I 
belonged to ; I replied that I was of the Christian religion. 
Once more they asked me whether I was a Mahomedan 
Christian or a Hindu Christian. For they recognise no other 
religions than these in Hindustan. I seized the opportunity to 
tell them a little about our faith. 

The other matter was that one day Rajah Jai Singh asked 
me whether in Europe there were armies, wars, and squadrons. 
I replied to him that the bravery with which the Farangls 
fought, of which I was an example, sufficed to show him that 
we in Europe knew what war and fighting meant. We were 
accustomed to fight in two ways, one by sea, the other by 
land. That upon the sea took place thus : 

A number of planks are joined together by nails in the form 
of a large enclosed house, with many cannon in tiers. Entering 
into the said house, the soldiers attach huge cloths to masts, 
and driven by the winds, these serve to put the said house 
in motion. The course is regulated by a large plank fixed on 
the house, and capable of movement from one side to another. 
In this way, with good matchlocks, pistols, and swords, and 
a sufficient supply of food, of powder, and of ball, they set out in 
search of their enemies. When they encounter one, the 
fight begins with the firing of cannon, which breaks the 
masts or makes holes in the said house, allowing entrance 
to the water. But those who are within assemble and with 
skill plug the hole. For this they always have materials 
ready. 

Meanwhile some attend to the vessel, and others fight with- 
out intermission. The dead bodies are thrown into the sea, so 
that they may not hinder the fight. Nor are there wanting 
surgeons to aid the wounded, who are carried to a room 
specially set apart. As their courage grows hotter, they bring 
the vessels nearer, emptying all their matchlocks and pistols [93], 
until at length the fight waxing still fiercer, they grapple one with 
the other ; then the sword-blows scatter streams of blood, red- 
dening the sea. There being no mode of flight for the fighters. 



124 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDDSTIn 


it is therefore necessary to conquer or die. Sometimes it 
happens that the captain who is losing, resolving not to be 
overcome, orders all his cannon and other pieces to be double- 
shotted. He then sets fire to the ship’s magazine of powder ; 
thus he destroys himself along with the others. The rajah 
wondered at such a mode of warfare, and it seemed to him 
very hard and very cruel that a man, if he did not want to 
defend himself, could not even run away. 

The other mode of fighting was on land. There the foot 
soldiers were separated from the squadrons of horse, and all 
had their matchlocks and swords. Those who were mounted 
had good carbines, pistols, and swords. When I was giving 
this account, finding some pikes or spears there, I exhibited 
how the spearmen stood in front of the companies to hinder 
the cavalry from getting in and throwing into disorder the well- 
ordered ranks of the infantry. Thus the battle would com- 
mence with great order and discipline, the cavalry helping 
wherever it was necessary to repress an onslaught of the 
enemy. Many a thing did we tell him of our fighting in the 
open country. Upon this he set to laughing, assuming us to 
have no horses in our country, and thus we could know nothing 
of fighting on horseback. 

For this reason we agreed, I and Luis Beigao, a French 
surgeon, Guilherme (William), an Englishman,^ and Domingo 
de Saa, a Portuguese who had formerly been a cavalry soldier 
in Portugal, to give the next morning during the march, and 
in the rajah’s presence, a demonstration of our mode of fighting 
on horseback. We rode out with our carbines, two pistols in 
our holsters and two in our waist-belts, and carrying our swords. 
We rode two and two and began to career about, our horses 
being excellent- Then first of all we skirmished with the 
carbine, and after some circling and recircling, letting off our 
pistols, we made pretence of flight and pursuit. Then, turning 
round and making a half-circle, the fugitive attacked the pursuer 
and let off his pistol. Thus we went on till all our charges 
were fired off, of course without bullets. Then, laying hand 

1 ‘William, an Englishman/ may be identical with the William Gates of 
Sloane MS., 8ii, in the British Museum. 



INDIAN IDEAS OF EUROPEAN FIGHTING 


125 


upon our swords [94], we made gestures as if giving sword-cuts, 
which the others parried. 

The rajah, who was on his elephant, halted, and when our 
display was finished, w^e rode up and made our bow. He 
asked what meant these excursions and alarms. I replied 
that purposely we had done this to let him see that we knew 
how to fight on horseback in the European way. He asked 
me several times if really they fought like that in Europe. 
I answered that this was only a small specimen. We would 
show him sport when it came to reality, observing the same 
order ; and if there were on the field dead men or horses, we 
should ride over them as if riding on a carpet, and make no 
account of them. He praised our way of fighting, saying he 
thought it a sound mode of warfare, and he should like to form 
a troop of European cavalry if I could obtain them. I answered 
that it was not easy to get so many men in Hindustan who had 
been trained in our wars. He then gave us our leave with 
a good present, and thenceforth thought more of European 
nations, who, if it were not for their drinking habits, would be 
held in high estimation, and could aid our kings to carry out 
some project there. 


Death of Shahjahan. 

While Rajah Jai Singh was halted in Brampur (Burhanpur) 
awaiting the army which was following us, he received the 
news of Shahjahan’s death, which happened in the following 
manner.^ Noromgabadi (AurangabadI), wife of Shahjahan, 
had two lovely maid-servants, one Aftab, which means ‘ Sun,’ 
and the other Mahtab — that is to say, ‘ Moon.’ Finding that 
Shahjahan was attracted by them, she gave them to him for 
his amusement. 

One day Shahjahan was in front of a mirror adjusting his 
moustaches, and these two women were standing behind him. 
One made a sign to the other, as if mocking the old man who 
wanted to get himself up as a youth. Shahjahan saw the 
gesture, and, touched in his reputation, had recourse to drugs 

^ Shahjahan died in the night between Sunday and Monday, the 26th Rajab, 
1076 H. (February i, 1666, N.S.) (‘ Tari^-i-Muhammadi,’ year 1076). 



126 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDOSTAN 

to maintain his strength in his accustomed vices. By these 
his was so weakened that a retention of urine came 

on. For this no remedy could be found, he being now an old 
man and much enfeebled. At the same time [95] he brought 
to mind what the faqlr with the two apples had said. This 
was when he was Prince Corrum (Kburram), and was at Juner, 
in Bijapur territory ( 1 . 119), and it was to the effect that when 
his death approached he would lose the smell of apples on his 
hands. Recognising that this had come true, he lost heart 
about his living longer, and thus came to an end in a short 
time. 

When 1 ‘tibar Man sent the report to court, Aurangzeb called 
to mind the subterfuges by which ShahjahSn, being then SultSn 
Murram, gave out that he was dead, and thereby gained the 
throne. Might he not have sought a similar method for getting 
out of prison and recovering the kingdom ? Aurangzeb there- 
fore sent a trusty man to pass a heated iron rod over his father’s 
feet, and if the body did not stir, then to pierce the skull down 
to the throat, to make quite certain that he was really dead. 
Orders were sent to 1 ‘tibar Man not to allow his burial until 
the arrival of Aurangzeb in person.^ He journeyed quickly by 
river, for it was of great importance to him to be delivered of 
this uneasiness, and he cloaked his ill-will under the shadow of 
filial piety, in the hope that the populace would cease to whisper. 

Arrived at Agrah, Aurangzeb put up at the mausoleum of 
Taj Mahal, and there awaited his father’s body. It was not 
carried out through the palace entrance ; through a hole made in 
the wall they brought it out head first, this being a superstition 
among the Mogul kings, I know not the reason why. Begam 
Sahib sent two thousand gold coins to be given to the poor, 
but the guards seized the whole, saying that prisoners could 
not give away anything. On the arrival of the corpse at the 
tomb, Aurangzeb prayed and showed much devoutness, wiping 
his eyes as if he wept. Thus he found himself arrived at the 
object of his desires in the year one thousand six hundred and 
sixty-five (correctly, 1666), that father being now buried whose 

^ Aurangzeb left for Agrah by river on 9 Sba'ban (February 14), 'Maj^ir-i- 
•Alamp^,’ 53, 54. 



shIhjahAn’s death and burial 


127 


death he had so long desired, and to shorten whose life he had 
sought so many expedients. 

At the conclusion of the ceremony Aurangzeb went into the 
fort, when Begam Sahib came out to meet him. After the 
usual obeisances she presented to him the letter of pardon that, 
as she said, she had obtained from Shahjahan, her father, 
together with the valuable and ancient jewels remaining under 
his control. This was all the service she could do for her 
brother, for whom she had wearied herself enough, without 
much profit, for some time past. Aurangzeb was satisfied [96], 
although he had grounds for suspecting that the said letter was 
a forgery ; nevertheless, it was enough to justify him with the 
populace. To those maid-servants and ladies who were not 
wives of Shahjahan he gave permission to marry freely anyone 
they pleased. He took Begam Sahib away with him to Dihll, 
conferring on her the title of Pacha Begam (Badshah Begam) — 
that is, ' Empress of Princesses.’ He allowed her to live in her 
own mansion, a concession he would not grant to Roshan Ara 
Begam. Begam §ahib’s rank was maintained as before, and 
her beloved Jam Begam, daughter of DarS, was left with her. 
The wives of Shahjahan were sent into retirement in the palace 
for royal widows.^ 

Here is the place to speak of Shahjahan’s elephant called 
Khaliqdad, as I have promised (II. 7). Hearing a great noise 
being made in the tomb of Taj Mahal in preparation for the 
burial of his master, this elephant grew fierce and restless, 
when the driver who had charge of him came up and said to 
him, ‘ Unhappy Ehaliqdad ! What will become of thee now 
that he who was thy master is dead ? What is there for thee 
now but to die too ? for no one will take the trouble to look 
after thee !’ On hearing these words, the elephant began to 
gather dust with his trunk and throw it on his head. Then 
with groans and cries he fell on the ground and died, just as if 
he recognised his evil destiny, and took his departure as one 
forsaken. 

' The so-called ‘ Subagpurah,’ I presume, or ‘Hamlet of Happy Wives,’ one 
of the KirJ^StMahs, or diviraons of the royal establishment at Dihli. 



128 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDDSTAN 


Aurangzeb sends an Ambassador to Persia. 

After the funeral of Shahjahan Aurangzeb determined to 
send an ambassador to Shah ‘Abbas, King of Persia. The 
real reason for such an embassy was not disclosed. But it 
•was commonly conceived that it was to establish peace and 
friendship with the King of Persia. He apprehended that this 
sovereign might make war upon him, as he had upon Shah- 
jahan. On his side Aurangseb intended to overcome Bijapur 
and Gulkandah, to tempt fortune by an attack on China, to 
eject the Rana from his territory, and to occupy the kingdoms 
of Arakan and Pegu, which barred the door to his enterprises. 

The ambassador that he selected was [97] Tarbietcan (Tar- 
blyat Klian )/ an Uzbak, a large, tall man with a huge beard, 
and possessed of good judgment, being a man of great learning.^ 
As presents Aurangzeb sent many pieces of Indian cloth highly 
adorned and very costly, and several elephants. With the 
embassy went the usual officials, a wOqVah-navls and a Wiufi- 
yah-mmS, who are the public reporter and the secret reporter. 
The ambassador arranged matters so that on his arrival in 
Tgfahan he received fresh mangoes. This is an Indian fruit 
not grown in Persia. He also received there fresh betel, a leaf 
that, on mastication, gives an agreeable odour to the mouth, 

1 About iith Rabi* II. of the sixth year, 1074 H. (November 12, 1663), Tarbiyat 
TTVian was seut With a reply to the letter from Shah ‘Abbas brought by Budaq 
Beg, and carried presents to Persia valued at seven lakhs of rupees. In the 
ninth year, about the 14th Rabi‘ I., 1077 H. (September 14, 1666), a report was 
received from Tarbiyat Khan, envoy to Persia. He exposed the ill-will, foolish- 
ness, ignorance, and bad temper of Shah ‘Abbas, and his attempts to fly higher 
than his wings had strength for. He was proposing an invasion of Khurasan ; 
further particulars were given on the envoy’s return to the Indian Court. 
Aurangzeb determined to teach a lesson to that stirrer-up of needless strife. To 
begin with, Prince Mu‘azzam and Jaswant Singh were told off, and Aurangzeb 
said he would proceed to the Panjab himself; and, as Tarbiyat ^an had 
committed faults, he was denied an audience (‘ Ma,asir-i-‘Alamgiri,’ 48, 56). 
This return embassy is apparently not mentioned by Bernier. 

3 Shafi'ullah, Birlas, entitled Tarbiyat Khan, was born in Central Asia, and 
died as Faujdax of Jaunpur on the 27th Sha'ban, 1096 H. (July 30, 1685), or 

1097 H. as the ‘ Ma,asir-i-‘Alamgiri’ says, p. 261, line 3, or, as some assert, in 

1098 H. (• Tari^-i-Muhammadi,’ year 1096; see also ‘ Ma,asir-u]-Umara,’ 
i* 493)* 



THE SHAH INSULTS THE ENVOY 


129 


and is comforting to the stomach. I spoke of it in the First 
Part of my History (I. 39) upon my arrival in Surat. They 
have none of this leaf in Persia. 

The ambassador was well received upon his entry into 
Isfahan ; but he did not receive equal honour in the presence 
of Shah ‘Abbas. When permission to appear in audience had 
been given to him, the king recollected what Aurangzeb had 
done to his ambassador. He now took a twofold revenge. 
The first was he received him while mounted on horseback, as 
he was coming from the court on a promenade. In this way 
the wretched Tarblyat Bban was forced to follow the king on 
foot for some distance. Then he was told to go away and take 
some rest ; he would be sent for another time. This was the 
first mouthful the ambassador had to swallow. He was forced 
to wait for about a year before he obtained leave to depart. 

In this interval he was sent for several times to the court, 
where they treated him with much less respect than Persian 
subjects were treated. His going to court served for no purpose 
but to expose him to the king’s contempt. They merely made 
a mock of him and of Aurangzeb. One day, speaking of 
Aurangzeb’s h5q)ocrisy, Shah ‘Abbas called him his slave, as 
the Persians are used to do in naming Indians. Another time 
he scoffed at the complexion and customs of the people of 
Hindustin. Thus many months elapsed. 

One day, speaking about the reception given by Aurangzeb 
to his ambassador, Shah ‘Abbas complained of the unusual 
ceremonial. Among other things they said to Tarblyat S^an 
that the Blackamoor (meaning Aurangzeb) ought not to forget 
that it was the kings of Persia who established his femily in 
Hindustan ; for without their help never [98] would his 
ancestor, Huma3mn, have returned there as king. The am- 
bassador answered that it was the truth, but equally should the 
Shah recollect that his predecessors were given the kingdom of 
Persia by Taimur-i-lang. Shah ‘Abbas was amused at such an 
answer, and as a reward made him drink a cup of wine by 
force. It was not a little of an insult to the ambassador to see 
himself forced to do such a thing. 

Having exhausted their stock of jests with the ambassador, 

VOL. II. 9 



130 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

when he had been there a year they asked him one day who 
his two followers were, about whom on every day of visit Shah 
‘Abbas made jokes. Tarblyat i^an replied they were the 
public reporter and the secret reporter, who informed Aurang- 
zeb of all that took place. Shah ‘Abbas laughed, and in a loud 
voice said to him that one must necessarily assume he was 
a man of little sense and of slight consideration, seeing that the 
king had given him such followers and had not trusted in him. 

Many are the things which might be told about this embassy, 
but the story would be very long. It might even be that every- 
body might not credit it ,* for infinite were the jokes with which 
Shah ‘Abbas repaid the hauteur of Aurangzeb in treating his 
ambassador badly. Among other pleasantries, one day when 
the ambassador was at the audience, the king ordered into his 
presence a lion secured by two chains of silver gilt. When the 
lion appeared, he took hold of it by the mane and stroked it, to 
show how brave he was. The lion, which was tame, let itself 
down gently on the floor, and made friendly gestures to the 
king. The ambassador was in a wonder, and Shah ‘Abbas, as a 
joke against the reporters, said : ‘ Write this, too, to Aurangzeb.’ 

Finally, having by this time prolonged sufficiently the misery 
of the ambassador, the king decided to send him off. But it 
was a sad business, this leave-taking. One day Shah ‘Abbas 
held the ambassador in animated conversation till late in the 
evening, and it being then dark, asked if he had any coin of 
Hindustan, and any portrait of his king. The ambassador 
replied in the affirmative, and produced some coins of gold and 
of silver. On these was written : 

‘ Secazad der jahan chum bader manir 
Xaa Orangzeb Alamguir ’ 

(Sikkab zad dar jaban chtin badr-i-munir, 

Shab Aurangzeb-i-‘Alamgir) 

That is: ^ 

‘ Struck coin in the world like sun and moon, 

Aurangzeb, the conqueror of the world.’ 

At the same time he gave him ^99] ^ portrait of Aurangzeb 
painted on paper. He was depicted .on horseback, and there 
was an angel in the air presenting to him a sword. 



THE ENVOTS BEARD SET ALIGHT TO 


131 

Shah ‘Abbas returned the coins to the ambassador, directing 
him to read aloud the words stamped on the coins- Beforehand 
he had told the torch-holder to approach the ambassador, so 
that he might be able to see; then, when he had finished 
reading, he was to make a pretence of stumbling, and in so 
doing set fire to the ambassador’s beard. This was done. 
Meanwhile Shah ‘Abbas kept calling out : ‘ It is nothing ! it is 
nothing! there are plenty of barbers to repair the damage.’ 
Then, gazing at Aurangzeb’s portrait, he began to utter against 
it much abuse, going through the life and the chief doings 
of such a king; then, spitting on the picture, threw it on the 
ground. He ordered his slaves to shoe-beat the face, which 
deserved no less. This was done, and all observing silence, he 
said that on the coins there should not appear such words, but 
these : 

‘ Secazad bacurs penir 
Orangzeb beradercox paderguir ’ 

(Sikkah zad ba qurs-i-panir, 

Aurangzeb, baradar-kush-i-pidar gir). 

That is : 

‘ Struck coin upon a round of cheese, 

Aurangzeb, brother-slayer, father-seizer.’ 

At the same time he ordered forty fine horses from his stables 
to be given to Tarbiyat Hian, telling him to go back to his 
master and inform him that he sent those horses, so that he 
might not have the excuse of a deficiency of horses for not taking 
the field against him. Thereby he defied him to enter the 
field, hoping to teach him thus how a king became a real world 
conqueror. But of the rest let us speak farther on, for the wars 
of Shiva Ji here make me pause, having somewhat to say about 
them.^ 

Returns to Jai Singh’s Campaign in the Dakhin. 

While this embassy [to Persia] was in progress, we were 
marching onwards to the city of Aurangabad, on reaching 
which we joined Shah ‘Alam. Sending for me. Rajah Jai 

1 There is an account of Tarbiyat Khan *5 treatment in Persia to be found in 
Dow’s ‘History of Hindostan,* 1803, iii. 400-402. It differs in details from 
Manucci’s story. 


9—2 



132 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

Singh ordered me to go as envoy to three rajahs— that is 
to say, Ramanagar (Ramnagar), Pentt (Pent), and Chottia^ 
(Chiutia), who are petty rajahs among the Hindus, and the 
Portuguese call them kings of the Colies (? Rolls). It was 
through their lands that Shiva JI passed on his way to attack 
Surat.2 Rajah Jai Singh gave me a set of robes and a horse, 
and sent with me thirty troopers and some infantry; also a 
considerable sum for expenses. My orders were to go to these 
rajahs, and tell them they must give their word not to [lOo] take 
the side of Shiva Jl, nor allow him passage. He (Jai Singh) 
must declare war against them in the name of the Mogul 
emperor, if they did not take up arms against Shiva Ji and 
embrace the cause of Aurangzeb. As security for their promise 
they must come in themselves or send their sons to attend on 
the court, where they would be assigned pay and rank befitting 
their condition. 

I took my departure on this deputation, and the first person 
I visited was the Rajah of Ramanagar, whose territories lie amidst 
frightful hills and gloomy forests. I was well received by this 
rajah, who invited me to take a rest while he deliberated on 
what he thought it was best to do. I amused myself meanwhile, 
going out to shoot and fish ; nor did the rajah fail in providing 

1 Pentt— this is evidently the Peint of Thornton, 761, and of the * Imperial 
Gazetteer,’ xi., a petty State in the Nasik district between Bombay and Surat, 
east of Daman, lying between lat, 20® i', 20® 27', and long. 72° 58', 73® 4', 
with an area of 730 square miles. The town of Peint is 73 miles south-east 
by south from Surat, and 102 miles north-north-east from Bombay. According 
to the * Bombay Gazetteer,’ xvi. 189 (NSsik), Pent belonged to Pun wax Rajputs, 
and not to Kolis. Ramnagar is another name for the State of Dharampur, 
held by Sisodiah Rajputs, now under the political agent at Surat (‘ Bombay 
Gazetteer,* vi. 254, 256). I am indebted also to Dr. O, Codrington for calling 
my attention to Purshoram Vishram Mawjee’s ‘ Shiva Ji’s Swarajya,* read before 
the Bombay Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society on December 17, 1903. This 
essay, and the map attached to it, show that this RSmnagar was the northern- 
most division of Shiva Ji’s hereditary dominions. Chottia may represent a 
village at the Chivtia (Chiutia) Pass, over the Sahyadri range, in the north- 
west comer of the Nasik district (‘Bombay Gazetteer,’ xvi. 129). It is not 
named among the fifteen petty states called the * Dangs,’ * Imperial Gazetteer,* 
iv. I 14. 

2 This statement is confirmed by the ‘ Bombay Gazetteer.* ii. 89 (Surat). The 
invasion of Siirat took place in 1664. 



MANUCCl NEGOTIATES WITH PETTY RAJAHS 


133 


pastimes in the nature of plays and games. Meanwhile he was 
corresponding with the other two rajahs, whether they thought it 
suited them to take the Mogul side against Shiva Jl. I was 
not backward in making promises and using threats, according 
as I considered it appropriate. Sometimes I put myself into a 
passion and demanded an answer, else I would be off. In the 
end the rajah chose the side of Aurangzeb, giving me a horse 
and a sword. He made over to me his son in confirmation 
of his word. 

I then went to the second rajah, where I was received in a 
friendly manner, and treated just as I had been at the first 
place. He petitioned for time, feigning that he had not had 
time to write to the others. Here I received man}^ honours 
according to their custom — dances, plays, and the chase. 
Finally, he, too, gave me a horse and a sword, and delivered to 
me his son to be conducted to court. But this tall and robust 
young man died on the journey by reason of the great heat 
of the sun, which inflamed his blood. He would not agree 
to be bled, as I counselled, he not trusting in me. 

Next I proceeded to the third rajah, who showed himself 
recalcitrant. But finding I was determined, he set to work to 
conciliate me. Not having any sons, he made over to me his 
brother to be taken to court with me ; he then bestowed on me 
a sword and a horse, and bade me farewell. It happened that 
at this time he was fighting the Portuguese of Damao (Daman), 
so I arranged matters and persuaded them to make peace. 

Here two things happened to me that I wish to recount, so 
that inquiring persons may learn that these people are much 
given to sorcery [loi]. I had a handsome horse that Rajah 
Jai Singh had given me. The Rajah of Chottia (Chiutia) took 
a fancy to this horse, and requested me to sell it to him ; he 
would pay me one thousand rupees. I was not willing, but 
when it was time for my departure the horse had lost the use of its 
legs, and was unable to move. I waited for eight days without 
any good, when the rajah sent me word that, though the horse 
was damaged, he would still give me one thousand rupees. In 
a rage, I started from the place, telling my people that if within 
twenty-four hours the horse could not move, to cut his throat 



134 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


and bring the hide to me. Finding me so resolute, the rajah 
sent me one thousand two hundred rupees, beseeching me not 
to order the horse’s throat to be cut, but to content myself with 
this present, and he would keep the horse in remembrance of 
me. I contented myself with taking the twelve hundred rupees, 
knowing quite well that if I did not, I should lose both horse 
and rupees. 

Another affair happened to me in this return journey to the 
camp with the hostages. It was this: One of my servants, 
passing through a field of radishes, stretched out his hand to 
pluck one out of the ground, when his hand adhered in such 
a fashion to the radish that he could not take it away. It was 
necessary to find the owner of the field to get him liberated. 
This was done, and after taking something as a bribe and giving 
him a beating, the owner recited some words and the man was 
freed. I could never sufficiently state to what an extent the 
Hindus and the Mahomedans in India are in the habit of 
practising witchcraft. I quite well know that if I were to 
recount that they can even make a cock crow in the belly of 
the man who stole and ate it, no credit would be given to me. 
Nevertheless, the truth is that many a time I heard the crowing 
in different cases, and of such instances I was told over and over 
again.i 

As for the spells practised by the women to bring young men 
under their control, they are infinite. Of such a nature are 
they that any such youth becomes mad, nor is he given any 
respite to think of anything else. This subject I postpone to 
the Third Part of my History (III. 248-265). Let this serve 
as a warning to our Europeans who intend to travel in India, 
so that they may not allow their liberty to be taken from them, 
for afterwards they will weep over their unhappy, irremediable 
state. It happens often to one so bound by spells that after 

^ An obvious case of ventriloquism. Mr. W. Crooke refers me to a more 
modem story of the same sort in Sleeman’s ‘ Rambles and Recollections/ i. gi. 
He also refers me to the passage from the ‘Acta Sanctorum,’ tomeii., March, 
quoted in Southey’s ‘ Commonplace Book,’ third series, 355 : * Some thieves 
having stolen and eaten a ram of his [St. Finian’s], and denying the fact, the 
saint called upon the ram to bear witness ; and though the mutton was then in a 
state of digestion, it bleated in their bellies.’ 



INDIAN SPELLS AND SORCERY 


135 


his lady-love has died he cannot endure the approach of any 
other woman, remaining ever overcome by sorrow for the 
defunct [102]. 

I have not much to say about the lands through which I 
passed. For they are not of great excellence or productive- 
ness. They are, as I said, foil of hills and rocks, and very 
difficult for fighting in. The habits of these people are 
barbarous, their features ugly, and complexion black; they 
go almost naked, having only a simple cloth, which at times 
is insufficient to hide their shame. Among the hills aforesaid 
are many tigers and other ferocious animals. It happened to 
me in this journey that an unknown dog attached itself to us, 
and served me as a guide in crossing streams. One night it 
was sleeping near me in these forests, when a tiger came and 
carried it off. 

Shiva Ji surrenders of hts own Accord to Rajah 
Jai Singh, 

During the time that I was carrying out my deputation, 
which lasted nearly seven months, Rajah Jai Singh by his 
valorous enterprise gave Shiva Jl as much to do as he could 
manage, never letting him rest. In the end, when Shiva Jfs 
fortress of Banagar^ was invested, Jai Singh, in his foreseeing 
way, began to write to Shiva Jl, pointing out to him that if he 
would only listen to his words, things should be so arranged 
with Aurangzeb that he (Shiva Ji) should be propitiated and 
appointed by the king as governor of the Dakhin. At the same 
time, opening his purse, a thing which has strong influence 
over both hearts and tongues, he sent heavy bribes to ShivS Jf s 
ministers, so that, should he demand their counsel about what 
ought to be done, they should all tell him it were best to make an 
agreement with the Mogul king, since he promised to make 
him governor of the Dakhin. If Rajah Jai Singh went security 

1 Is this meant for Puna-garh (see II. 107), or can it be intended for RSegarh, 
which was the name of Shiva Ji’s stronghold? Rairi (renamed Haegarh in 
1662) was given up to Shiva Ji by the Bijapur officials in 1648 (Grant-Duff, 
63, 85). Pana, Purandhar, Singarh, and RSegarh, were the places attacked by 
Jai Singh 92). 



136 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDOSTIN 


for the royal word, he could accept the proposal. For Aurang- 
zeh would never fail in his word, by reason of the estimation 
and respect in which he held that rajah. 

Shiva Ji allowed himself to be persuaded by the pleasant 
words spoken, and the large promises made to him by the said 
rajah. Finding that in valour and experience this general was 
very different from the others who had been sent against him 
before, he decided to listen to Jai Singh’s words and place him- 
self in his hands. When Shiva Ji came to visit the said rajah, 
much anxiety was caused in our camp, everybody assuming 
that he must be coming to [103] attack our army. 

But when it was known that he had very few people with 
him, Diler ^^an and Kirat Singh went out to meet him 
and escort him to the tent of the rajah. But he did not wait 
for all these preparations, and when he drew near to the tent, 
the rajah came out to receive him with great friendliness and 
politeness. Meanwhile the governor of the fortress (? Puna) went 
on fighting with great energy, bombarding our camp with his 
artillery ; nor would he desist until Shiva Jl wrote to him to 
surrender the fortress. Thus for the time being the war with 
Shiva Jl was at an end. He trusted in the various letters 
written to him by Aurangzeb and the oaths he had sworn to 
him, also in the words and promises of Rajah Jai Singh. A 
tent was put up for him alongside the rajah’s, and he had 
liberty to enter and leave as he pleased ; he was always treated 
with great honour and respect. Meanwhile they awaited a 
reply from the court. 

A few days after my arrival Shiva JI gave himself up and 
came into our camp.* Since I went at night to converse and 
play [cards] with the rajah whenever he so desired, it happened 
one night during this period that we were having a game, the 
rajah, his Brahman, and I, when in came Shiva Ji. We all 
rose up, and Shiva Jl, seeing me, a youth well favoured of 
body, whom he had not beheld on other occasions, asked 
Rajah Jai Smgh of what country I was the rajah. Jai Singh 

^ Grant-Dnff, 93, places Shivi Jl's surrender in July, 1665, According to the 
• Ma,asir-i-‘Alam|dri,’ 51, he came into Singh’s camp on the 8th Zi.l ^ijjah 
of the eighth year, 1075 H. (June 23, 1663, N.S.). 



MANUCCI MEETS SHIVA Jl 


137 


replied that I was a Farangi rajah. He wondered at such an 
answer, and said that he also had in his service many Farangis, 
but they were not of this style. Rajah Jai Singh vrainted to do 
me honour, and responded that as a rule Nature made a dis- 
tinction between the great and the humble, and I being a rajah, 
she had given me a body and a mind very different from those 
of others. I rose to my feet as a mark of recognition for the 
compliment, and made the appropriate obeisance. This was 
the opening which afforded me occasion many times to con- 
verse with Shiva JI, since I possessed, like anyone else in the 
camp, the Persian and Hindustan languages. I gave him in- 
formation about the greatness of European kings, he being of 
opinion that there was not in Europe any other king than the 
King of Portugal. I also talked to him about our religion [104]. 

Shiva Ji goes to Court, and after Some Months takes 

TO Flight. 

Diler ^an, being habituated to treachery, wished several 
times to kill Shiva JI, and to this intent solicited Rajah Jai 
Singh to take his life, or at least to give him (Diler l^an) 
leave to do so. He would assume all responsibility, and see 
that the rajah was held blameless. He said the king would 
rejoice at such a result. For Shiva JI’s valour and intrepidity 
would never give any rest to the Mogul. But Rajah Jai Singh, 
who had pledged his word and oath not to allow of a murder, 
but rather that the king should treat Shiva JI with great honour, 
never listened to the words of Diler Ehan. On the contrary, 
he made arrangements to send Shiva Jl to court well guarded ; 
and he wrote to his heir. Ram Singh, to take precautions against 
the king’s murdering Shiva Jl. For he had pledged his word, 
confirmed by an oath, to protect him. Better would it be for 
his house to be extirpated than to permit Aurangzeb, under 
cover of his words, to organize treachery. 

Upon Shiva Jl’s arrival at Dihll the king caused him to 
appear in his presence,^ aind instead of giving him the promised 

1 According to the * Ma,agir-i-‘Alamgiri,’ 55, line 6, the audience took place on 
the i8th gu,l Qa‘dah, 1076 H. (May 22, 1666). 



138 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


position, which was to be the highest in his audience-hall, he 
caused him to be assigned the lowest place in the first circle of 
nobles within the golden railing. Shiva Jl was much hurt at 
this deed of Aurangzeb’s, which did not conform to the promises 
received, and angry (so to speak) at being still alive, he said 
resolutely to Aurang^eb that the position allotted was not 
according to that promised to him under oath, nor to the 
agreement made with Rajah Jai Singh. From this his first 
reception he could well surmise what would come to pass 
thereafter. Let Aurangzeb remember that the officers in His 
Majesty’s presence, with the exception of Namdar Ehan,i who 
was a good soldier, were the rest of them so many old women, 
whom he had overcome in the field with the greatest ease. 
Thus not one of them deserved the position he held. Then in 
anger he came out. 

Everybody imagined that Aurangzeb would order him to be 
slain ; but Aurangzeb was not used to display passion openly, 
and only carried out his designs in secrecy. He gave a sign 
that they were to talk Shiva JT over, for at that time it was not 
known what he might want to state to the court. Some of 
them came out and managed [105] to console him, saying it was 
the habit of the King of Hindustan not to give forthwith the 
first place to those who had newly come to court. But he was 
certain to do so afterwards ; for he held him in high esteem as a 
valiant captain. But he must wait with patience for a few days. 

In the interval Aurangzeb issued orders that he should be 
escorted to his tent, and, as sentries over him, they should post 
round his tent three corps of guards. This was until the palace 
of Fida,e IQan could be made ready for him. Thus he dwelt 
some months in a tent ; and finding there was no appearance 
either of the execution of the royal promises or of an opportunity 
of flight from the hands of Aurangzeb, he sent to ask permission 
for his soldiers and captains to leave for their own country. 

^ This must be meant for N§,md§.r Kh an, the son of Ja'far T^h Sn. by 

Farzanah Begam, sister of Mumtaz Mahal. Early in the reign he served under 
Jaswant Singh in the Dakhin, but was recalled to Court in the seventh year 
(1664-65) (‘Ma,asir.ul.Umara,’ iii. 830). In Part III., 33, Manucci claims this 
noble as a great fnend of his. 



SHIVJ JI SENT TO DIHLi—HIS ESCAPE 


139 


This Aurangzeb accorded, and was contented to detain the 
persons of Shiva JT, of Sambha Ji, his son, and of Netu Ji,^ 
the most renowned captain in Shiva Jl’s service. 

Shiva JI, on the advice of Ram Singh, son of Rajah Jai 
Singh, who 'was one of the captains on guard over him, sent 
several times each week large covered baskets of sw^eetmeats to 
be shared among the officers and others. Aurangzeb took no 
precautions about this, acute though he was, for he supposed 
such presents were sent by Shiva Jl by reason of his desire to 
give alms in thanks to God for his freedom. When the adorn- 
ment of Fida,e lean’s mansion was completed he (Aurangzeb) 
gave orders, under the pretext of honouring Shiva Jl, that on 
the succeeding morning he should be removed to the said 
mansion, it being intended that he should be smothered there 
and buried on the spot. 

Ram Singh, fully carrying out his father’s instructions, and 
sufficiently acquainted with Aurangzeb’s character, had spent 
money without stint to obtain reports of any orders issued by 
the king, either in favour of or against Shiva Jl. He thus 
heard of the royal order. Without delay Shiva JI was informed, 
and he sent out to buy the large covered baskets of sweetmeats as 
usual. Then, concealing himself within one, he arranged to be 
carried away, he and his son, to a place of security, whence 
with good riding-horses he could take flight for his own country. 
Thus was it carried out. At seven o’clock in the evening, having 
succeeded in getting away without anyone suspecting, Shiva Jl 
made use of the preparations made in the villages and woods, 
as arranged by Ram Singh, and escaped without detention into 
his own country .2 

1 Netu Ji, Palkar (called Nathti Ji by Khafi Kban, ii, 191, etc.), became 
samaubai, or general of Shiva Ji*s cavalry, in 1657 or 1658, and from that time 
was conspicuous in all the Mahrattah campaigns until 1664 (Grant-Duff, 74, 76, 
81, 86). The ‘Ma,asir-i-*Alamgiri,’ 58, calls him the Mwesk (son-in-law) of 
Shiva JL Grant-Duff, 99, throws doubt on his conversion, but the * Ma,^r-i- 
‘Alamgiri,’ 60, gives the date of his circumcision as the ist Shawwal, tenth year, 
1077 H. (March 27, 1667). His new name was Murshid Quli Khan. 

2 According to the * ‘Alamgimamah,’ 971, line 16, ShivS. Ji escaped in the 
night of the 27th Safar, ninth year, 1077 H. (August 29, 1666), the Court being 
then at Agrah {ibid., 1021, line 10). He reached the Dakhin in December, 
1666, after an absence of nine months (Grant-Duff, 96). 



140 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDOSTIN 


Next morning they went to remove Shiva Ji to the mansion 
where his life was to be taken. On entering the tent they saw 
a turban at the side of the cushion, as if [lobj he were still asleep. 
They waited for a time, then once more they went to look if he 
was awake. But what was lying there was not able to move on 
any account ! Thus they went in several times without noticing 
any movement, nor did they hear any snoring. They uncovered 
him gently to find out if he was alive or dead. By this inspec- 
tion they were undeceived, and at once reported to Rclm Singh, 
who went to the king before anyone else could speak to him. 
After making his bow, he stood, with a cast-down countenance, 
in perfect silence. Aurangzeb was puzzled by this change, 
R§.m Singh being ordinarily of a jovial expression. He asked 
what this dejection meant, and why he had not gone home. 
Ram Singh replied in a low voice that he had bad news, namely, 
that Shiva Jl had disappeared. 

Aurangzeb was much put out by this event, and raising his 
hand to his head as if plunged in thought, he sent out orders 
throughout the realm for Shiva Jl to be traced. But Shiva Ji 
wais already far on his road, traversing in one night what would 
have taken anyone else three days and three nights. In this 
way it was impossible to catch him, his way being through 
jungle and mountains, places through which it is very difficult 
to pass. Being afraid that Netu Ji also might disappear, 
Aurangzeb forced him into accepting service, and sent him 
off to the other side of the river (the Indus) to fight under 
Mahabat !|^an. 


The War against Bijapur. 

Shiva Ji’s haste in taking to flight has caused us to get some 
paces too far ahead, and leaves now for this place various 
matters, including the orders sent by Aurangzeb to Rajah Jai 
Singh when he was certain that Shiva Jl had already surrendered 
himself. These orders were that, ceasing to campaign against 
the territories of Shiva JI, our army should proceed to the 
conquest of Visapur (Bijapur, Vijayapura).^ 

* There is a long and much better account of Jai Singh’s BQSpur campaign in 
ghsn , ii. 191 (Elliot and Dowson, vil 277-279). 



BIJAPUR ATTACKED 


141 

The rajah started at the headof fifty thousand horsemen, relying 
upon his knowledge of the fact that the greater number of the 
Bijapur generals were on Aurangzeb’s side. We were on our 
way when a letter arrived from Sargecan (Sharzah l^an),^ a 
Pathan by race and captain-general of the Bijapur king, addressed 
to Diler S-an, to the following effect : 

‘ Valorous and loyal general, Diler ©.an ! I do not write to 
Rajah Jai Singh but to you, we being of one race and of one 
faith. For this reason I believe that [107] you will give ear 
to my words. I pray you as a favour to so arrange that Rajah 
Jai Singh obtains from King Aurangzeb orders to desist from 
this war. For the King of Bijapur is of the same sect of the 
faithful, and up to this time has never evaded the payment of 
the agreed tribute. If you are not able to secure this, I shall 
be forced to do what in me lies to defend this kingdom. Nor 
must you take it ill if I oppose your division or succeed in 
routing you, and deprive you of the glory that by a victory you 
would obtain.* 

When Diler ©an received the letter, he replied briefly that, 
until he had the King of Bijapur in his power, Aurangzeb would 
never listen to the proposals of anyone. As for an encounter 
in the field, he was delighted both to test the valour of Sharzah 
©an, and to give him a sample of the courage with which he, 
too, could fight. On hearing this, Sharzah ©an took the field, 
and dividing his army into two parts, allowed us to march 
between them for fifteen days of our route. When we were 
close to Bijapur, he began to devastate the Mogul provinces 
without mercy. 

The rajah paid no heed to this, assuming that it would be 

^ This Sharzah is mentioned by Khafi Khan, ii. 195, line 4, and by 

Dr. John Fryer, 1675, edition of 1873, p. 406. His portrait is one of our 
illustrations. He afterwards received from Aurangzeb, thirtieth year, 1686-87, 
the title of Rustam Khan. In the thirty-third year, 1689-90, he was captured 
by Santa, Mahrattah, and not released until the forty-ninth year, 1704-5. Grant- 
Duflf, 154, says Hambhir Rao was the captor, and the place Wai. Rustam Khan 
was made Deputy-Governor of Barar, and in the first year of BahSdur Shah, 
1707-8, full Governor, vice Ghazi-ud-din Khan (‘ Ma,asir-i-‘Alamgiri,’ 480, and 
Kewal Ram, * Tazkirat-ul-Umara,’ British Museum, Additional MS., No. 16703, 
fol. 456). 



143 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

easy for him to take Bijapur and its king, for he had boen 
corresponding with the officers. But the intrigues being dis- 
covered, the king removed the officers who had written, and 
replaced them by others. By this change the rajah found 
himself deprived of those he relied on, and he had to beat 
a retreat. This was the time when Sharzah San captured 
three officers who were coming over to our army to join us ; he 
decapitated them, and sent the heads to the King of Bijapur as 
a proof that he had one loyal general, who would spare no one 
when acting in defence of his king. Sharzah San gave us a lot 
of trouble during our retirement, leaving us not a moment’s 
rest, either by day or by night, until we had quitted the territory 
of Bijapur. 

During this advance and retreat there was with our army the 
Father Damiao Vieira, a Portuguese^ expelled by the Jesuit 
fathers. The cause of his appearance was that during our stay 
below the fortress of Punagar (? Puna-garh) the Hindus of 
Chawal came to complain to Rajah Jai Singh that the Portu- 
guese were seizing forcibly the sons of the Hindus and making 
them Christians. This made the rajah angry, for he was 
zealous in the Hindu faith, and he made preparations to send a 
force against Chawal. 

On becoming aware of this I gave notice, there and then, to 
Ignacio Sermento at Bassain [io8].® He was chief of the 
northern territory of the Portuguese, which extends to Damao 
(Daman). I requested him to send someone as envoy with 
some presents, and I would arrange matters. He sent this 
padre, with a young Mahomedan in his suite. He brought 
this youth expressly to get from him half of what he might 
acquire, as being well acquainted with the territories of Chawal. 
He was clever enough to secure the rajah’s taking this young 
man into his service, and thus they shared the pay in a brotherly 
manner. I spoke to the rajah, and pointed out to him that 

1 Manucci, Part III., 230, says this man denounced him to the Inquisition at 
Bassain in 1667. 

2 Danvers, ii. 327, year 1662, speaks of Ignatio Sermento, Governor of Cochin. 
Possibly this Governor of Bassain in 1666 is the same man. Manucci speaks of 
him again on fol. no, and on fol. 213 of Part III. we are told he was murdered 
on Palm Sunday, 1676. 



DIFFICULTIES WITH PORTUGUESE AT CHAWAL 143 


there was no occasion for the Hindus of Chawal to complain, 
since what the Portuguese were doing had gone on certainly for 
a hundred years ; nor did they make Christians of anyone but 
orphans who had no relations forthcoming. 

The padre was not content with having accomplished his 
mission with somewhat of honour, but he must needs enter on 
warlike proposals. He promised the rajah that he would so 
manage that the viceroy of Goa should give aid to the Moguls 
in the acquisition of Bijapur. Over and over again I told the 
padre that it was not a good thing to enter into such matters, 
that he had much better withdraw to Goa. For the King of 
Bijapur was a better neighbour to the Portuguese than the 
Mogul king would ever be. The latter, having conquered 
Bijapur, would next try to take Goa. The padre was not 
pleased with my views, and complained to the rajah, so that the 
rajah said to me one day, without giving a reason, that I should 
avoid meeting the padre. After the business had been settled, 
I received from the Portuguese a certificate signed by Ignacio 
Sermento, wherein he swore on the Holy Evangelists that I 
had done a great service to the Crown of Portugal. 

We got to Bijapur, as I said, and there we beheld the 
miracles that the padre had promised us. We were to take 
Bijapur with the greatest ease, whereas it all but happened that 
Sharxah iS^an broke all our heads. Therefore, finding, after 
we had retreated, that we were going into quarters, I began to 
long for a life among Christians ; and I was disgusted at the 
conduct of the padre, who continued to live on in the army, 
I asked the rajah for leave to resign, as I wanted to return to 
my country, and I put forward as excuse that I wanted to get 
married. They never refuse anyone leave when it is with that 
object. The rajah asked his Brahman and the astrologers, with 
whom (as I have said) these princes are always well provided, if 
he [109] should ever see me again. They replied that we should 
never meet again. He believed that I was doomed to die, but 
he reckoned badly, for while I got back to the Mogul country, 
he was left dead far from home, as I shall relate in its proper 
place (II. 115). 

On my leave-taking he gave me a set of robes, and something 



144 


OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


by way of present. Upon quitting the army I went into a 
village belonging to the Portuguese called Camba (Kambe),i 
close to Galianii (KaliyanI) and Beundi (Bhiwandl)i, in the 
country of Shiva Jl. In this village are made many things in 
y^ood — ^handsome chairs, sideboards, bedsteads, and different 
playthings. Here I stayed for several days, at the request of a 
friend of mine who was owner of the village, and he kept me 
in his house until he had stolen some gold coins I had. Thence 
I made for Bassaim (Bassain, Wasai), a Portuguese town, there 
to pass Lent,® and I lived outside the town. I was very near 
losing my life here. A gentleman (fidalgo) asked me about 
some fidalgos of the Mello family, then living in the Mogul 
country, who had been banished for putting to death two brothers 
named Medon§as (? Mendoza), brothers-in-law of the questioner, 
on the accusation of treason to the Portuguese Crown. I had no 
idea that he was an enemy of these fugitives, and I replied that 
they were men of worth and honoured gentlemen. This sufficed 
to set him plotting against me, and he sent out men to assassi- 
nate me. But it was God’s pleasure that, when coming out of 
the town on my horse, I should meet some gentlemen, who 
requested me to put my horse to speed, which I did most 
vigorously. With a pleasantry I look my leave of them, and 
spurred my horse into a gallop, though it was already tired out, 
getting my sword out of its scabbard ; it was as much as I could 
do to get hold of it, seeing that my horse would hardly let me. 

But here we must admire God’s providence, who had resolved 
on saving me. Here was I galloping my horse, sword in hand, 
when I came up with four men at a corner round which I had 
to pass. They stood there waiting for nje, with naked swords, 

1 Kaliyani is the well-known town (now a railway junction) in the Thanah 
District (‘Bombay Gazetteer/ xiv. 113). Beundi I identify as Bhiwandi, six miles 
north of Kaliyan, and in the same district, lat. 28® 45', long. 76® 14' {ibid., 45). 
Camba (K§mbe) was a Portuguese fort two miles west of Bhiwandi {ibid,, 
xiii. 457, Thanah District). 

2 According to the “ AlamgimamaJbi, * 1021, last line, Jai Singh, after nearly 
a year’s absence, arrived at Aurangabad, on his return from Bijapur, on the 
8th Jamadi' II., 1077 H. (December 16, 1666). Manucci says, farther on, it was 
in 1666 he reached Bassain, but it was more probably the Lent of 1667. The 
town of Bassain (or Basal) is twenty-eight miles north of Bombay, and was held 
by the Portuguese until 1765 (‘ Bombay Gazetteer,* xiv. 28, Thanah District). 



XVI. Sultan Akbar, Fourth Son of Aurangzeb. 




MANUCCI AT GOA, 1667 


145 


ready to slay me. But guessing that I had been already 
warned, and was coming at them resolved to fight to the death, 
they were in fear and allowed me to pass without hindrance. 
I was subsequently informed that he who laid this plot for me 
was the fidalgo to whom I had praised the Mellos. Thus, 
fearing that he would lose no occasion of executing his evil 
intent, I left for Goa, and there I arrived in the month of May, 
one thousand six hundred and sixty-six (1666).^ Of the place 
itself I shall have much to say presently, but the reader must 
permit me first to state briefly [no] something about my own 
stay there. 

I did not obtain there what I sought, for I found myself in a 
place where treachery is great and prevalent, where there is 
little fear of God and no concern for strangers. Not that I can 
complain myself of ill-treatment, for the viceroy desired to 
honour me with the command of a war-galley. But since I had 
many necessary expenses, and I was not rich enough to take 
upon myself the payment of the soldiers and sailors from my 
own pocket, I declined. My advice to the viceroy was that he 
should take great care not to let the Mogul become master of 
Bijapur ; for on finding an opportunity, he would use all his 
strength to take Goa, as was his usual practice. 

As I had need of money for expenses, I went several times 
to the general, Ignacio Sermento,® to ask for the three hundred 
rupees which he continued to owe me for certain articles that 
he had asked me to send him when I was in the Mogul country. 
Never could I succeed in getting what was due. At length, 
when he was about to start for his government of Mozambique, 
I begged him to make me a gift of the three hundred rupees, 
at any rate, under the name of alms. As a foreigner I had 
no remedy against him ; and when he heard me ask for charity, 
he ordered the sum to be paid me. Thus is it the custom 
of certain of these gentlemen to pay their debts after wear3dng 
out their creditors. I was very fortunate. Others, in place 
of collecting the money they had lent, have lost a limb or 
even their life. I do not want to talk of that, for those who 

1 More probably 1667 (see ante, II. 107, note). 

2 See ante, II. 108, note, and also Part III., 213 (his murder). 

VOL. II. 10 



146 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

are curious may ask the Portuguese themselves; there are 
among them men of sincerityj as there are in other nations. 
Such men can tell them more than I dare to write about the 
Portuguese of India. 


Shah 'Abbas defies Aurangzeb. 

But let us return to the Moguls and talk of a year in which 
several things happened. The first event was that Aurangzeb 
had a son by his beloved queen, Udepurl, who received the 
name of Kaembaex (Kam Ba^sh), this being the fifth and 
last son.^ But Aurangzeb could not resolve to have him 
destroyed in his mother’s womb, in accordance with the rule 
of Shahjahan. He acted thus out of his great love for Udepurl 
[in]. The second event was that Aurangzeb’s ambassador 
to the King of Persia arrived at Dihll with the forty horses 
that Shah 'Abbas sent to Aurangzeb as a challenge to take 
the field. By this the whole kingdom fell into great anxiety and 
confusion, more especially the city of Dihll, for Aurangzeb, 
to show that he had no fear at the approach of Shah 'Abbas, 
who had already begun his march towards India, sent orders 
to cut the throats of the forty fine horses at the doors of the 
Persian ofiBcers, such as Ja'far l^an, Muhammad Amin S^an, 
and others. This was to prove that he had no need of them, 
nor did he make any account of the King of Persia. ® 

The wretched Tarbiyat l^an,^ who had been the ambassador, 
as we have said, received from Aurangzeb many affronts and 
much abuse. Aurangzeb said to him that if he were a man 

^ Kam Ba^sh was born on the loth Ramazan, 1077 (March 6, 1667, N.S.) 
(* Ma,asir.i-‘Alamgiri/ 538). 

^ The account by John Cambell, ‘ gunfounder,’ in the British Museum, Sloane 
MS., No. 811, fol. 66, says he was present, and saw Aurangzeb break in 
pieces the sword sent by the Persian King; he ordered the fragments to be 
stamped to ‘pother,’ burnt, and the ashes thrown into the river. The horses 
were given away. 

® Tarbiyat ^an arrived after Zu.l Qa'dah of the ninth year, 1076 H. (after 
June 3, 1666). He was appointed to Udisa (Orissa), vice Khan Dauran, about 
the 25th Zu.l Qa‘dah. 1078 H. (May 12, 1668) (‘ M.-i-’A.,’ 56, 57, 62). As to the 
horses and Aurangzeb’s suspicions of the Persians, see Dow, iii. 405. 



TARBlYAT KEAN DEGRADED 


147 


of understanding and capable of any shame, he should have 
got killed in the Persian king’s palace, first taking the life of 
the heretic (for thus they style the Persians). He would like 
to know why he carried a dagger at his side, if it were not 
for defending the honour of his king and offering up his life 
on his behalf. It had been better for him to bury himself 
alive than appear again in the sight of men. Thus did he 
expel him from court, and in a short space the wretched 
Tarblyat ij^an ended his days.^ 


Death of 'Abd-ul-Karim. 

Aurangzeb had shown that he was not afraid of the Persians. 
All the same, he had a certain amount of dread, for he recalled 
Shah ‘Alam to court in great haste, and directed Rajah Jai 
Singh to make peace with the king of Bljapur. His intention 
was to enter on a campaign against the Persians. He still 
further exerted himself. He ordered the learned ‘Abd-ul- 
Karim, 2 master of theology, to take steps to ascertain what 
Shah ‘Abbas was doing, and transmit to court clear in- 
formation. 

‘Abd-ul- Karim was so energetic that it cost him his life. 
For, having seized some Persian merchants who were totally 
ignorant of the plans of Shah ‘Abbas, he tortured them until 
they should tell him what they did not know. At last one 
of them, in despair at so much suffering, sought for death. 
Thus, the six Persian merchants being in the audience-hall 
under examination, one of them drew near to ‘Abd-ul-KarIm 
[1 12] , who was seated upon a carpet, his sword lying in front 
of him, as is customary, and around him a number of persons. 
The man said he wished to confess the truth, and would there- 
fore swear upon the sword to state what he knew. Placing his 
hand upon the sword, which was sheathed, he suddenly raised 

1 Tarblyat Khan did not die until 1096 H. (1685), when he was faujdar of 
Jaunpur. 

2 ‘Abd-ul-Karim is probably an error for Maulana ‘Abd-ul-Qawi, I*tim§d 
Khan, who, according to the ‘ Ma,asir-i-*Alatngiri,* p. 57, was assassinated in 
1077 H. (1666-67) much in the way here described (see also * Ma,asir-ul-Umara,’ 
i. 225, and Khafi Khan, ii. 203-205). 


10 — 2 



148 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDVSTAN 

it and gave his torturer a mighty blow upon the head. ‘Abd- 
ul-KarTm was killed. The bystanders seized the other five 
merchants, who were lying chained in a corner of the hall, 
while the brave fellow who struck the blow managed to escape 
during the confusion. 

Let it be learnt hereby that patience, when at last angered, 
is transformed into fury, and in pursuing an inquiry : 

‘ Est modus in rebus, sunt certi denique fines, 

Quos ultra citraque nequit consistere rectum.’^ 

By this event Aurangzeb was thrown into a great quandary, 
suspecting that the Persians had already decided to take 
possession of Hindustan by one method or another. He there- 
fore ordered everyone to go about clad in shirts of mail. 

Aurangzeb’s apprehensions were added to when he opened 
the book of Coja Afez Xirazi OOiwajah Hafiz ShlrSzI). He 
is a Persian author much esteemed by Mahomedans, because he 
wrote good doctrine in verse. On the occasion of any important 
^fFai'r they open his book at a venture, or, as we are used to say, 
ad aperium libri. They regulate their conduct by the first 
words upon which their eyes rest, treating them as prophetic. 
He fell (I say) into greater anxiety, since on opening the said 
book he found the statement : ‘ I am greatly amazed that the 
black man should claim equality with his master.’® This 
was as much as to say that he wondered that the King of 
Hindustan should assert his ability to resist the strength of the 
Persian king. For, as I said already more than once, the Persians 
call the Indians their ‘slaves’ or ‘black men.’ Aurangzeb 
flung the book on the ground in a great rage, and issued orders 
for all copies of the work to be collected and burnt. None 
was allowed to retain this book under pain of death. 

^ Horace, * Satires,* I., i. io6. 

* Yes, there’s a mean in morals ; life has lines, 

To north and south of which all virtue pines.’ 

CONINGTON. 

- Haji M. A. Hussein EIh§.n. to whom I referred the question, can find no such 
line in the * DiwSn ’ of The nearest he could suggest were the two lines : 

* Ha£z ! ba adab b§.sh, kih dar^wast na b§.shad 
Gar Shah payame baghuiame na firistad.’ 



THREATENED WAR WITH PERSIA 


149 


Death of Shah ‘Abbas. 

Meanwhile Shah ‘Abbas was advancing with great deter- 
mination and impatience for a contest with the army of 
Aurangzeb. He had three hundred thousand horsemen, and 
it is quite certain [113] that if Aurangzeb had encountered this 
valiant king he would have run considerable risk of losing the 
kingdom, to gain which he had worked so hard with mind and 
body. But it was his good fortune that Shah ‘Abbas fell ill of 
quinsy and died upon the march, whereby Aurangzeb was much 
relieved, though by that time ready to take the field, as Rajah 
Jai Singh had made peace with the king of Bljapur.^ 

Upon the death of Shah ‘Abbas the aged mother of that king 
wrote to Aurangzeb that, now his rival was dead, he was excused 
from taking the trouble of coming into the field. All the same, 
if he wanted to come, he would find her there in the place of 
her son, and she was waiting for nothing but a word from him 
to start. Although Aurangzeb had made every preparation for 
a campaign, and he was not occupied with any other matter of 
importance, Shiva Jl having been already taken, he still did not 
care to interfere with the Persians. He made the excuse that 
it did not befit his honour to go against a woman, while God 
had already chastised the evil-doer. As a revenge for what 
Shah ‘Abbas had attempted to do, he forbade the sending of 
caravans from Hindustan to Persia, but allowed them to travel 
into India from Persia. 

Beg AM Sahib gives Wine to the Wives of the 
Learned Doctors. 

It was in this year that the learned, or MullaSy of the faith, 
seeing the king freed of troubles, obtained from him the issue of 
laws for women — that is to say, that they must not wear tight 
trousers like those of men, but wide ones. They said this was 
advisable to distinguish them from men, but their meaning 

1 Shah ‘Abbas ll., son of Shah Safi, son of Shah ‘Abbas I., died at the 
village of Kharasman on the ist Rabi‘ I., 1077 H. (September i, 1666), aged 
thirty-six or thirty-seven (lunar) years (‘Ma,asir-i-‘AlamgIri,’ 58, and ‘Tar^h-i- 
Muhammadi,’ year 1077). Tavernier, English edition, 200, says he died at 
Tehzon of an inflammation of the throat, which came on from excessive drinking. 



ISO OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDOSTAN 

was very different. They also wanted him to make a rule against 
women drinking, or eating bha^tg, nutmeg, opium, or other 
drugs. The women had psiid no heed to the orders he had 
given at the beginning of his reign, saying those orders did not 
apply to them, but to men only. 

When Padshah Begam, otherwise Begam Sahib, learnt of this 
new rule, she invited the wives of the qazi and the other learned 
men to her mansion, and gave them wine until they were drunk. 
Aurangzeb came to her palace and referred to the restrictions 
under which he had placed women. He made excuses, saying 
that he was under an obligation to make the law obeyed. She 
had never [114] heard, she said, that those things were entered 
in the book of the Law, But Aurangzeb told her that such 
was the opinion of all the learned. Thereupon Padshah Begam 
invited the king within the pardah, where he saw the wives of 
the said learned men all lying drunk and in disorder, and also 
wearing tight trousers on their legs ! 

Upon this Padshah Begam said to him that if such things 
were part of the Faith, the learned should not allow their wives 
and daughters to go about clothed in that fashion, nor should 
they permit them to drink intoxicating drugs. Instead of 
issuing laws for others, they required to regulate their own 
households. Thus was appeased the storm that had been 
raised against women. 

Ambassadors from France. 

In this year it was that ambassadors arrived from the King 
of France to the Mogul. One was called Monsieur de la 
Bullaye le Gout, and the other Monsieur Beber.^ They came 

^ Here, as in the case of Lord Bellomont, Manucci is more correct than the 
biographical dictionaries. Frangois de la Boullaye le Gouz, son of Gabriel le 
Gouz, was bom at Bauge, near Angers, circa 1610, and, according to the 
‘Biographie Universelle ’ (Michaud), vol. xviii. (1817), p, 216, died at Isfahan 
after 1664, or, as the * Nouvelle Biographic G^nerale * (Didot), vol. xxx. (1859), 
p. 414, saySt ‘about 1669,’ without ever reaching India on this journey. Both 
woris say the King of Persia gave him a pompous funeral. But H. Castonnet 
des Fosses, in his ‘La Boullaye le Gouz, sa Vie et ses Voyages’ (53 pp., 8vo,, 
Angers, i8gi), drawing upon local sources, confirms Manucci generally. Le 
Gouz had travelled in India once before, and produced a book, ‘ Les Voyages et 



A FRENCH EMBASSY 


iSi 

to obtain from the Mogul leave to open a factory at Surat. 
Their orders were not to deliver their letters, unless into the 
hands of Aurangzeb himself. But it not being the custom of 
the Mogul kings to take letters from the hand of an ambassador, 

Observations/ 1653, which brought him to the notice of Louis XIV. In 1664 
(October), when Colbert formed his Compagnie des Indes, Le Gouz was selected 
with others to proceed to India through Persia to push the interests of the new 
enterprise. Le Gouz and Beber reached Swally (Surat) on April i, 1666, and 
proceeded to Agrah. On leaving that place late in 1666 they separated, Beber 
returning to SUrat, and Le Gouz making for Bengal en route for China. A few 
miles from Dhakah he was assassinated by two soldiers, who mistook two heavy 
boxes of books for treasure-chests. This must have happened at the end of 
1666 or early in 1667 (see also H. Castonnet des Fosses, ‘LTnde Frangais au 
XVIII“e Siecle/ Paris, no year, pp. 41, 42). 

I have failed to find any notice of Le Gouz’s death in the Dutch reports from 
Dhakah. There are some letters from him in * Estat de la Perse en 1660,* by 
Pere Raphael du Mans. Capuchin, edited by C. Schefer, Appendix, pp. 289-321. 
Tavernier mentions him in his ‘Travels,* edition Ball, i. 210 (note), 224. But 
really the only full account, a very amusing one, is in Tavernier’s * Recueil de 
Plusieurs Relations (II., Relation de ce que s’est passe dans la Ndgociation des 
Deputez,’ etc,), 4to., Paris, 1679 (separate paging to each part), gS pp. Tavernier 
was at Agrah at the time, and Beber left for SQrat in his company. Manucci 
was in the Dakhin then, and it is impossible to tell whether he used Tavernier’s 
narrative or had independent sources; both accounts are in substantial agree- 
ment. J. de Thevenot, ‘Voyage,* 1727, v. 212, notices Le Gouz and Beber’s 
quarrel with a bany&^ and their absurd idea at Burhanpur that a headman’s offer 
of a nazar of twenty-five or thirty rupees was a calculated insult. 

There are a few notices of this French embassy in the East India Company’s 
records. The first news that a new French company was established is in a 
letter from Surat to Persia of February 17. 1666 (Factory Records, Surat, 
vol. Ixxxvi.). The remark is then repeated, and the arrival of two Frenchmen is 
announced (Siirat to Bantam, March 20, 1666, Original Correspondence, 3163), 
Next, in the postscript to a general letter from Surat to the Court, April 4, 1666 
(Q.C., 3i57),;they mention the appearance of the two Frenchmen, one sent by the 
King and the other by the new company ; they had left some others at Bandar 
Congo in the Gulf. The English factors do not think the answer of the Mogul, 
who is a ‘ greate zealot, ’ will be so pleasing as that of the Persian King. In 
another general letter of September 10, 1666 (Surat), in O.C., No. 3185, the 
difficulties of the French at the Mogul Court are detailed, Jaffar Khan having 
asked at once what present they had brought. They left the Court, were set 
upon by thieves, went back, and at last had an audience. Mr. Randolph Taylor 
at Surat writes to Mr. John Stanian to the same effect under date November 24, 
1666 (O.C., 3203). On March 26, 1667 (O.C., 3213), Surat reports to the Court 
(East India Company) that one Frenchman has left Agrah — ^it is said towards 
Bengal — while the other was returning to Surat with a Farman, They comment 
on Beber’s ‘ hastie and peevish nature,' and his ‘foule language or blowes.’ 



IS2 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


Aurangzeb, by way of showing the esteem in which he held the 
King of France, ordered Shah *Alam to take the letter from the 
ambassadors. This was a thing that up to that time had not 
been conceded to anyone. Although they had presents to be 
offered to the king, among them some cannon of a new inven- 
tion which I had seen in Surat, and many other articles, never- 
theless, for some reason, they gave nothing, and yet secured 
what they desired, the King of France being highly thought of 
among the Moguls. Monsieur de la Bullaye embarked at 
Patnah on his way to Bengal, but disappeared along with his 
boat, nor was an)rthing ever heard of them. The other 
(?M. B^ber), when at Goa, fell ill, and, meaning to take sal 
prunella (nitrate of potash) or mineral crystal, by inadvertence 
took corrosive sublimate, and died there.^ 


Death of Rajah Jai Singh. 

In the following year, one thousand six hundred and sixty- 
seven (correctly, 1666) Shiva Ji escaped in the way I have 
[115] spoken of (II. 105). Aurangzeb, owing to the death of 
the Persian king, found himself no longer in need of Rajah Jai 
Singh’s services [for a Persian campaign] ; and he had suspicions 
that the flight of Shiv! JI had been manipulated by that rajah. 
He ordered Jai Singh to return to court, and on the road caused 
poison to be given to him, from which he died at Burhanpur;® 
thus was he rewarded for the great services he had rendered. 
The rajah might have killed Aurangzeb when he came across 
him near ihe LakhI jungle, during the king’s march against 
Shah Shuja‘, and could have done the deed in perfect safety. 
He had been counselled to do it by his officers, as I have 
already said in the Second Book of my First Part (I. 220). 
Thus, too, was the rajah rewarded for deserting Sulalman 


I am mformed that while sal frunslla is highly soluble, perchloride of 
merc;^ is very imperfectly so : aud, although both are white powders, it would 
few ^is reMou be almost impossible to mistake them Perhaps B^ber was drunk, 
a faihng of his (tesU Tavernier). 

hJi^h ^ 1 >«ram. 1078 H. (July 12, 1667), at BurhSnpur. He 

M been Rajah over fifty years, and his age was about sixty ('Tarikh-i- 

342, states that kL siAgh 

poisoned his father at the instigation of Aurangzeb. 



AURANGZEB OPPRESSES THE HINDDS iS3 

Shukoh, son of DSra, in obedience to a simple letter sent to 
him by Aurang^eb. Thus did Aurangzeb reward the fidelity 
with which this rajah governed Dihll while he was in pursuit 
of Shah Shuja*. Thus did he reward the skill with which the 
rajah obtained the delivery of Sulalman Shukoh when he had 
sought shelter in the mountains of Srinagar. Thus did he 
reward the valour and determination with which the rajah 
went against Shiva Ji, and the expenditure by which Shiva Ji’s 
submission was secured. Thus did he reward the submissive- 
ness with which the rajah made peace with Bijapur, under 
conditions favourable to the Mogul court. 

As a further piece of revenge for the flight of Shiva Ji, 
Aurangzeb ordered Ram Singh, the rajah’s eldest son, to 
proceed upon the conquest of Assam,^ simply in the hope of 
getting rid of him, knowing what had happened there to the 
great Mir Jumlah. But, on the representations of several 
princes, he varied the order, and sent him (Ram Singh) to the 
farther side of the river Indus, to be under the orders of the 
governor of those lands, wherein to live is a severe punishment 
to HindQs, as I have already said (I. 223). 

When the news of Jai Singh’s death reached the court, he 
who brought it believed he was the carrier of melancholy 
news to Aurangzeb. For the whole countiy knew the services 
rendered by the deceased rajah to Aurangzeb and his kingdom, 
and they supposed that the king could not but grieve greatly 
for him. But, although it be a truth that the great make no 
account of their subjects except when they have need of them, 
and when the service is finished make no payment but in the 
coin of neglect, Aurangzeb, most completely ungrateful of 
them all, held it a maxim to withdraw from before his eyes 
those who had done the most for him. Thus he publicly 
declared himself rejoiced at the death of that great leader, 
saying [116] at once to the bearer of the news that his greatest 
joy consisted in this death of Rajah Jai Singh. Yet it had 
caused sorrow to everybody except Aurangzeb. The latter, 

' This appointment was made on the 21st Rajab, tenth year, 1078 H. (January 6, 
1668) (*Ma,agir-i-‘Alamgin/ 65). He left Bengal in the nineteenth year (1675-76), 
and died on duty in Kabul during 1099 H. (1687-88), 



154 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDOSTAN 

rid of a rajah whose influence might have been dangerous to his 
kingdom, declared that very hour an open war against Hinduism. 

He sent orders at once for the destruction of the fine temple 
called Lalta, in the neighbourhood of Dihll. He also ordered 
every viceroy and governor to destroy all the temples within 
his jurisdiction. Among others was destroyed the great temple 
of Matora (Mathura), which was of such a height that its gilded 
pinnacle could be seen from Agrah, eighteen leagues away. In 
Its place a mosque was to be erected, to which he gave the 
name of Essalamabad (Islamabad) — that is, ‘ Built by the 
faithful.’ Not content with this, he expelled the jogls or 
sanydsis, who are the ascetics and saints of the Hindus. He 
directed that the higher officers at the court who were Hindus 
should no longer hold their charges, but into their places 
Mahomedans should be put. He hindered the Hindus from 
enjoying their merry-making {intrudo) or camival,i on which 
occasion Mahomedans also resort to pranks and filthy sports. 
The time of this festival or carnival falls ordinarily on the 
moon of March. It is their custom to disport themselves by 
throwing on each other’s clothes scented oils and odoriferous 
diKt, if they are personages of position, or dirty water and other 
stinking things if they are low people. They run about in all 
directions, just as with us in Europe is done at carnival time, 
with noiqr cries and obscene words. 

Death of Father Bvzeo. 

The nobles in the Mogul country, above all Ja'far i^-an, felt 
much the loss this year of a Christian and a priest, although 
they do not c^e a fig usually whether we live or die. They 
are in the habit of calling us ‘unbelievers.’ This was Father 
Buzeo,2 a Flemish Jesuit well known at the court, a great 
friend of Dart and well liked by all the nobles, who delighted 

J The Holt, or sprmg festival, is evidently intenfigri 

- Bernier also mentions Father Buzeo (or Bus^e) and his friendship with 
Bgra, p. 6 (and Constable’s note quoting Catrou, i. 170) ; Dari’s death, p. loi 
note; Bnsee and the false astrologer, p. *44 ; intimacy with Dara, p. 289. The 
father app^ently died on June 20, 1668. There is an inscribed stone in the 

mor^ chapel at Agrah bearing that date and the name • Henriqnez [illegible] .’ 
See J. F. Fanthome, p. 55. 'i l & j 



ACCOUNT OF FATHER BUSJEE 


155 


much in his conversation. He was a man of great judgment, 
very learned, well [117] regulated in act and speech. He was 
of a fine presence, tall and portly, imposing respect by his mere 
appearance. He was very polished, a good mathematician, one 
who in a few words could solve the most difficult problems. 
In such estimation was he held that even Aurangzeb on his 
journey to and stay in Kashmir wished his company. 

This man of fine constitution met with trouble in regard to 
a marriage that he had arranged among the Christians. The 
husband, renouncing his religion, had turned Mahomedan. So 
much affected was the father, that the blood went to his head 
and he became delirious. To let blood would have sufficed to 
alleviate nature ; but as he was fifty-three years of age, and had 
never been bled, they would not bleed him. In this way his 
blood so troubled him that one day, shutting himself into his 
room, he opened his bowels with a knife, and, drawing out the 
colon, removed a piece and threw it away. Nature being thus 
discharged, his head was relieved, and he called for his servants. 
As they could not get in, they knocked down the door and ran 
to his assistance. But it was too late, a piece of the bowel 
having disappeared. 

In Dihll at this time was one of the fugitive friars of whom I 
formerly spoke (II. 61, 66, 67), and among the Christians who 
assembled, this friar also appeared. This priest confessed him, 
and remained present until his death. Since Father Buzeo 
was a wise man, he forthwith, before he expired, ordered a 
writing to be drawn up in his presence, wherein he declared 
that he himself had made the wound. He obtained the signa- 
tures of the greater number of those present, so that this paper 
being carried to the magistrate, the neighbours and the house- 
servants might be saved annoyance. He died with all the 
signs of a perfect holy man, and his dead body was carried to 
Agrah. Speaking with the king, JaTar Eban said to him that 
the sign of understanding had fallen, alluding to the death of 
this great religious person. 

It was not long before some renegade servants of the Jesuit 
fathers made use of this occasion to get the fathers ejected 
from Agrah. They laid a petition before the magistrate that 



156 OFiKING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

a Farangi, having died leaving no heirs, they asked for a grant 
of the houses of the defunct. From the qa?i they obtained the 
order that they sought. The fathers went and sought the 
good offices of Ja'fer San, who, for the friendship he had to 
the said father, let the king know what was the real state of 
the case— that is to say, the deceased, being neither married 
[iiS] nor a merchant, but a member of a religious order, could 
have no heir, possessing nothing of his own. His only heirs 
were the fathers of the same order. Thus fresh instructions 
were issued in favour of the padres. By this death the fathers 
lost much of the lustre that they had, for they did not succeed 
in maintaining their ancient reputation. The Mahomedans are 
very touchy, hence it is necessary for the fathers to conduct 
themselves with great prudence. The slightest indiscretion of 
one man suffices to ruin the rest. 

Ja'far Khan, Chief Secretary to the King. 

Since we have spoken of Ja'far !^an, a great fnend of the 
Christians and of the fathers, it is requisite to say something 
about his character. He was the most famous man of learning 
among the Moguls, first Secretary and Minister of State. He 
was so civil and courteous that he addressed everybody as 
' sir,’ and he was incapable of displaying anger. He was very 
polished, and his purity might be called a fetish. He declined 
to listen to coarse language in any shape. On one occasion it 
happened that his horse stopped a moment for a necessary 
purpose. He dismounted from his horse and took a seat in 
his palanquin, cloaking the feeling that caused this action by 
protesting that it was very hot. 

But it was a stranger thing he did when the architect brought 
him the plans of a fine palace that he intended to build. For, 
after asking as to various sections of the plan, he ended by 
inquiring about a certain place, where were depicted the privy 
retreats. The architect said it was the necessary place, where- 
upon he held his nostrils with his right hand, and puckering 
up his face, made a sign with his left to take the plan away, as 
if it smelt merely through having this painting on it. 

This man used to drink his drop of liquor, and on this 



JA^FAR KHAN’S DEFENCE OF WINE-DRINKING 


157 


account Aurang^eb, as a strict Mussulman, caused him to be 
spoken to several times, and in the end spoke to him himself, 
saying that it was not a fit thing for the first minister in a 
kingdom of the faithful to drink wine, he being under obliga- 
tion to set a good example. Ja^far !^an replied that he was 
an old man, without strength in his hands or firmness in his 
feet, had little sight in his eyes, and was very poor. By drink- 
ing wine he got sight for seeing, power for wielding the pen in 
the service of His Majesty, felt strength in his feet to run to 
court when His Majesty [119] called, and seemed in imagina- 
tion to become rich. For these reasons he drank. Wine could 
make the poor rich, the blind to see, the fragile robust, and the 
cripple whole. Aurangzeb laughed at this speech, and Ja‘far 
S^an told him that, whenever His Majesty desired, he would 
produce demonstration, in substance, of these assertions. 

Aurangzeb was willing to behold these miracles. Ja‘far Qian 
therefore prepared a banquet for some beggars, choosing one 
man crippled in the legs, one armless man, one blind man, and 
one healthy poor man. They were given leave to do and speak 
as they liked. While these beggars were drinking, he sent word 
to the king that if he wanted to see the miracles done by wine, 
now was the time. Aurangzeb went, more to be gracious than 
for any other reason. Hidden from the beggars, he listened, 
and heard the blind man launch into praise of the wine’s fine 
colour. JaTar &an said : * Behold, your Majesty, the blind 
man with a cup or two inside him can already see !* Another 
beggar, the armless one, shouted abuse at the blind man, 
telling him to finish drinking. If he did not, he would thrash 
him and knock his teeth out Then said JaTar iOtan to the 
king ; ‘ Already has the cripple got back his arm.’ In his 
impatience, the man without legs flew into a rage with the 
blind man, and said if he had not been seated he would give 
him a bellyful of kicks. This sufficed for JaTar Etan to point 
out to the king that the legless man had got a foot, since he 
was going to give kicks. The unhappy poor man who had all 
his faculties but no cash, did not mean the comedy to end 
without his playing a part. Raising his voice above the others, 
he egged on his companion to thump and kick the blind man, 



158 OF KING A URANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDOSTIN 

saying he had money enough to settle for them with the 
magistrate. Ja'far S 5 n ended by joking, as it were, with the 
king, who gave him so little pay, and said ; ‘ Now that the 
poor man has wine in his head he is become rich. And your 
Majesty will tell me after this not to drink wine ! For I have 
to be thus (? rich) if I am to serve your Majesty, who holds 
such a mighty empire.’ The comedy was over, Aurangzeb 
laughed, and Ja'far S^Sn kept to his old habit. ^ 

[Here the manuscript has an inserted leaf, bearing a passage 
in French, relating a story about the four stages of drunken- 
ness. As obviously non-historical, it is omitted.] 

Shah ‘Alam goes against Shiva Jl. 

Now it is time for us to speak of the expedition on which 
Aurang^eb sent [120] his son Sh§Ji ‘Alam, Bahadur — that is to 
say, ‘ King of the world, the brave.’ Aurangzeb had reason to 
fear that Shiv 5 JI would not lose a chance of using his strength 
to wreak vengeance for the treachery that he (Aurangzeb) had 
plotted, and for his failure to keep the promises with which he 
had lured him. For this reason he called to him ShSh ‘Alam, 
and gave him the necessary instructions, by following which 
he could catch him (Shiva Jl) again. 

His instructions were to take with him Rajah Jaswant 
Singh, to whom orders to proceed to the Dakhin were sent. 
The rajah was to serve under the prince. Other captains, the 
greatest he had, were to join, among them Diler :^an. On 
reaching the Dakhin, the prince was to make a campaign 
against Shiva Jl. But when the day of battle drew near he 
was to pretend to rebel, and seek the friendship of Shiva Ji, 
Letters were to be sent to the Mahrattah, as if he (Shah ‘Alam) 
meant to rebel and claim the crown. He must also manage to 
make his officers subscribe to this, and agree to his intended 
revolt. This Aurangzeb did to discover which officers were 
loyal, and which desired that he should be no longer king, 
taking thus an opportunity of playing off some of his fin^gcing 

* For an accoimt of Ja'far see note to Part I., fol. 129. He died at 

Igrah inZi.l Hijjah. 1080 (Apiil-May, 1670) (‘TJWWi-i.MuhammadI ’). 



SHSH ‘ALAM and SHIVA JI 159 

tricks in order to find out those on whom he could thoroughly 
rely.^ 

Shih ‘Alam, Bahadur, left Dihli with great show, state, and 
strength, leaving with the king hardly more than ten thousand 
horsemen. His father knew that Shah ‘Alam was not the man 
to revolt in reality. Thus the prince continued his march in 
tranquillity until he arrived at Aurangabad. Near that city he 
had a meeting with Shiva Jl, disguised as a cultivator from a 
village. It is the custom when princes pass by to present to 
them goats, milk, and fruit. The pretended villager laid before 
him a pot of milk. When the said pot was taken to the 
kitchen and emptied, they found a note enclosed in wax (? waxed 
cloth). This was carried to the prince, and it stated : ‘ I, 
Shiva Ji, desirous to know who it is that marches against me, 
that I may recognise him, present this pot of milk, and offer 
congratulations on your arrival ; and if in an3dhing I can be of 
service to you, I am at your orders, et cetera.’ ShSh ‘Alam, 
Bahadur, was lost in amazement at Shiva Ji’s sharpness, but 
that did not induce him to desist from the design of seizing 
him if he could. 


Death of a Friar, a Martyr called Frey Jacinto [121]. 

When he entered Aurangabad, one of the fugitive friars of 
whom I spoke (II. 61, 66, 67, 117) was living there; he 
had apostatized from the faith, and had turned Mahomedan. 
After he had been married for many years, finding himself 
scoffed at by Mahomedans and Christians, who wished neither 

1 Shah ‘Alam’s appointment to the Dakhin was made on the 7th Ramazan of 
the tenth year, 1077 H. (March 3, 1667). Jaswant Singh was deputed to serve 
under him (* Ma,asir-i-*Alamgiri,' 56, last line but one ; 61, line i), Grant- 
Duff, 99, and Elphinstone, 554, throw doubt on the rebellion of Shah *Alam, 
real or pretended. But the * Ma,asir-i-‘Alamgiri,’ 10 1, treats it as a real 
rebellion ; therefore, sometliing of the sort must have happened. Elphinstone 
objects that Jai Singh could not have joined it, because he had left the Dakhin, 
and was, in fact, dead, before the date assigned. In this he is misled by Catrou 
(edition 1715. third part, 78) and his Jadng; this is meant not for Jai, but for 
Jaswant Singh, who was both alive and in the Dakhin. Orme, * Frag^ments,* 
18, 19, believed in the rebellion, and so did Bhim Sen, Jonathan Scott’s authority 
(‘ History of Dekkan,* ii. 24). 



i6o OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

his company nor his conversation, he determined to give public 
proof of his penitence, and remove the scandal he had caused. 
He went, therefore, to the qa?i, to whom he said that, recog- 
nising the religion of Muhammad was not good, he found there 
was in the world no other religion by which man could save 
his soul except the Christian religion. He informed him of 
two things: one, that he was not a Mahomedan; the other, 
that if he (the qazi) wanted to be saved he must become a 
Christian. 

The qa?t was much put out at this talk, and, imagining him 
to be deranged, kept the man in prison for several days. Then 
he him into his presence, and asked him if he was still 

of the same mind. He replied as boldly as before. The qaz% 
made efforts to make him change his mind, but the holy man, 
firm as ever, persisted in the truth. For this he had him 
bastinadoed and beaten on the face. Then, desisting for several 
days and reducing him by hunger, he sent for him once more 
and dealt with him as before, treating him most cruelly. But 
at the end of five or six interviews the man was always the 
same, and the qHzl reported the case to Shah ‘Alam, Bahadur. 
The prince informed the king, and Aurangzeb answered, as a 
strict Mahomedan, that they must endeavour in every way 
possible to make the man recant. Let them give him women, 
horses, and liberal pay, and see if in this method they could 
overcome him. But if he remained obstinate in his opinion, 
he was to be publicly beheaded. 

Verily Shah ‘Alam, Bahadur, did his best to overcome the 
resolve of the holy man. But he had already felt within his 
heart the effects of grace, and rejected wealth and promises. 
He spoke ill of Muhammad, and declared clearly in the Moors’ 
tongue, which he could speak sufficiently well, that there was 
no other true religion but our Christian faith. The qa^ sent 
for a Portuguese renegade named Antonio Fernandez to 
catechize the man in Portuguese. He was known as a good 
talker, and it was thought that in the maternal tongue he could 
easily persuade the other man. 

But the holy man, speaking with inspiration from God, told 
him at last [izz] to withdraw, since he (Fernandez) did not 



MARTYRDOM OF A RECONCILED RENEGADE i6i 

wish to listen to the truth. Thus the story comes to an end by 
the public beheadal of that holy man. If he caused some 
scandal by his evil life and his apostasy, he gave equal edifica- 
tion by confessing the truth, weeping over his sins, and dying 
for love of Christ. By this event the Christians were edified, 
and the Mahomedans and renegades confounded. His body 
was cast upon a dunghill, and a year afterwards the Portu- 
guese managed to get the bones carried to Goa, the Christians 
having concealed their intention of bur5dng them until the 
opportunity arose of which I speak. God avails Himself many 
times of men’s sins to exalt them, and to show that, although 
to some it may appear that He has forsaken them. He may 
yet save us as long as we are still alive. He can make the 
greatest saints out of the greatest sinners. 

Shah *A.lam negotiates with Shiva Ji. 

At the time that Shah ‘Alam was in Aurangabad he began 
to write to Shiva JI,^ hoping to draw the fox into the trap. 
He therefore wrote to him secretly with many professions of 
friendship, after which he asked for advice whether, now that 
he had his father’s army under him and the officers on his side, 
he would not do well to rebel, and do as his father had done 
to Shahjahan. Shiva Jl’s reply was that the opportunity was 
favourable, and if he did not make his attempt then, it might 
be that he would never again have the same easy chance. 
Shah ‘Alam thought that already Shiva JI was approaching 
the trap, and therefore continued to send fnendly letters. In 
them he stated that he had now made up his mind to make 
the attempt, but he prayed him to join in the enterprise. 
He pledged his word that if the plan succeeded he would 
without ftul make him prince of all the Dakhin; he would 
never break his word as his father had done. 

Shiva JI, who pretended not to penetrate the designs of 
Aurangzeb, wrote to Shah ‘Alam that most willingly would 
he join him and take vengeance upon Aurangzeb, and by his 
death put an end to the wars in the south. But, not having 

^ See Grant-DufiF, 98, 99, years 1667, ; and Catron, part iii., 77-80. 

VOL, II. II 



i 62 of king AURANGZEB, sixth king. of HINDUSTAN 


the cash required for a grand campaign, it was necessary for 
him to receive a large sum of money. With this he would 
collect his men, who at the time of his imprisonment had gone 
to their homes. In addition, he must have authority to plunder 
several wealthy towns and villages. After that task was done, 
he gave his word that he would join. All this was conceded 
by Shah ‘Alam [123], a large sum of money was sent, and 
he (Shivd Ji) was allowed to plunder in all directions. By 
this means Shiva Jl grew rich, and recruited many men and 
strengthened his fortresses. 

Shah ‘Alam pretends to revolt in the Hope of 
SEIZING Shiva Ji. 

During this interval Shah ‘Alam employed his commanders 
in matters of little importance, strict orders being given them 
not to enter into the territories of Shiva JI. From this cause 
these ofhcers, who were not then in the secret, wrote letter after 
letter to Aurangzeb, informing him that they could not make 
out the intentions of Shah ‘Alam, who was wasting their time, 
whilst Shiva Jl went on robbing and plundering, to the great 
damage of the Dakhin. Diler KhSn wrote with the others, 
but more bitterly.^ 

But Aurangzeb, who knew the orders he had given to his 
son, concealed everything, and replied to the officers, telling 
them to obey and take no notice of Shah ‘Alam’s acts; but 
if he did not do well, he would recall him to court. Mean- 
while he wrote letters to Sh^ ‘Alam praising him for his 
mode of working, and told him to build a bridge of gold for 
Shiva Jl, so as to bring him into his camp. 

Things were in this condition when Shah ‘Alam, assuming 
that Shiva JI must be now satisfied, wrote him one more letter 
begging him not to delay his arrival, for he (Shah ‘Alam) began 
to fear his father might discover the plot he had in hand. 
ShivS Jl replied that he was then ready to move, but he wanted 
an assurance that Rajah Jaswant Singh and the other officers 

‘ For the official account of the rebellion, see ‘ Ma,aar-i-‘JUamgiri,’ 100. The 
^ort was received after the 28th gu.l Hijjah of the thirteenth year, 1080 H. 
(May ig, 1670). 



SHAH ^ALAhVS PRETENDED REVOLT 163 

had declared themselves on the prince’s side. When he was 
quite certain of this, he would most certainly appear in the 
imperial camp with all his army. Satisfied with such a 
response, Shah ^Alam began to talk to Rajah Jaswant Singh, 
who, not being well affected to Aurangzeb, accepted the pro- 
posal at once. Thus, one by one, all of them subscribed the 
document, in which Shah ^Alam made separate promises to 
each. 

Finding now that he had procured the signatures of the 
greater number of his officers to the agreement to rebel, Shah 
^Alam ordered Diler Khan to come to him in audience, as he had 
something to tell him. The talk was intended to be about the 
rebellion, and Shah ^Alam hoped, by thus sending for Diler 
S^an the last of all, that he would be able, by pointing to the 
example of the others, to draw him over more easily [124] to 
his faction. But Diler Stan, already aware of the plot for a 
rebellion, put no trust in Shah ^Alam, knowing how very sharp- 
witted Aurangzeb was ; hence all this plotting might be make- 
believe. Thus, to protect himself, he sent word to Shah ‘Alam 
that he had nothing whatever to do at his audience, being in 
the king’s service. He was there in the field, ready to go out 
to fight in any direction he might desire; such an order he 
would obey forthwith, but to his audience he would not go. 

It was in vain that Shah ‘Alam resorted to every device 
to bring over Diler Eban to his side, for the king was desirous 
of getting rid of Diler l^an out of his sight. But this general, 
fully experienced by this time in every subtlety, would never 
consent to appear in audience. He perceived that, even if 
Shah ‘Alam really rose in rebellion and obtained mastery over 
the kingdom, he would not lose any reputation by abstention, 
for his proved fidelity would continue to make him esteemed. 

Finding that he could not convince Diler ^an, Shah ^Alam 
passed him over and sent the document signed by the other 
generals to Shiva JL He added that, to secure the proposed 
object — ^that is, to make himself master of the kingdom by 
seizing his father — all that was now wanting was the aid of 
Shiva JI’s valour and his powerful army. With this intent he 
would take the field fully resolved and begin his march. He 

II — 2 



i 64 of king AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

prayed Shiva Jl earnestly not to delay, and thereby give 
Aurangzeb time to collect more soldiers ; for he (Shah ‘ Alam) had 
not then under him more than ten thousand horsemen, and with 
them he could not resist the valour and fury of so great an army 
as his father’s. He would publish it to all the world that his ally 
was the famous Shiva Jl, who was executing righteous vengeance 
for the treachery that Aurangzeb had practised on him. 

Thus did Shah ^Alam take the field, announcing to the 
world that he was on his way to Dihll to seize his father and 
crown himself king. As a demonstration that he already felt 
the sceptre in his hand, he granted large pay to his generals, 
distributed governments, granted provinces, remitted tribute. 
In this way the kingdom was filled with the rumour ; and, as 
happens in rebellions, some rejoiced at the rising, others com- 
plained that they would be ruined and destroyed, that there 
would be an end of the prosperity then beginning to prevail 
in Aurangzeb’s reign. All this was mere child’s play ; but at 
the head of the game were persons -who meant to carry out 
a plot of great profit to the Mogul. 

Aurangzeb feigned to be much terrified, and showed great 
alarm at this rebellion. To bear this out, he ordered the 
treasure-houses to be opened, and preparation to be made for 
taking the field, and he began to engage [125] additional men 
for his army. Meanwhile he sent Fida,e Khan, with the ten 
thousand horsemen then present, to hold the fords on the 
river Chambal, where Dara had taken up his position against 
Aurangzeb at the first battle of which I spoke (I. 184). He 
then got ready mules and camels to be loaded with gold, as 
if in preparation for flight. He started a rumour to that 
effect. 

Fida,e l^an, to show what a valiant man he was, after 
having erected his tents at the place alluded to, sent a message 
to the king that he might take his ease. For, so long as one 
soldier was left in the camp, Shah ‘Alam should never be 
allowed to advance; and even if any disaster happened. His 
Majesty would still have time to retire whenever he pleased. 
Fida,e ]^an was a brave soldier, of whom I shall have some- 
thing to say farther on (II. 152), but he was guilty of this 



IN VAIN IS THE NET SPREAD FOR SHIV A Jl 165 

rhodomontade with the idea of procuring the royal favour. 
He had already some idea of the real state of the case. 

Aurangzeb simulated fear in the hope of increasing Shiva Jl's 
willingness to join the undertaking, and of a truth it was neces- 
sary to be very skilful if you were to hit the bull’s-eye through 
all this deception. Having great natural judgment, and by this 
time great experience, Shiva Jl mocked at the cunning fox, after 
having attained his own ends by adding to his own wealth and 
power. For, in place of joining Shah ‘Alam, he wrote him a 
letter in which he said that, since Aurangzeb had only ten 
thousand horsemen, while he (Shah ‘Alam) had over one 
hundred and twenty thousand combatants, he might march 
by himself on the said enterprise. It was very easy of accom- 
plishment. He would take care that no one should come to 
seize the Dakhin, and he gave his word that during that time he 
would not realize for himself any more of the revenue than what 
Aurangzeb had conceded to him when viceroy of the Dakhin. 

Shah ‘Alam was thunderstruck at such a reply, which he 
sent on at once to the king. Nevertheless, he continued his 
march to prove that he was in earnest, and dispatched letter 
upon letter to Shiva Ji, begging him not to desert him at this 
crisis. For it was on his advice alone that he had made up 
his mind to enter on such an undertaking ; if he did not assist 
him, it was impossible to carry out the enterprise. Of a truth, 
anyone else than Shiva Jl would have fallen into the net. But 
he stuck firmly to his text, that he would not meet the Mogul 
army otherwise than sword in hand and ready to cut off heads. 
He merely sent word that the prince ought to proceed and 
deliver battle. If by ill-luck any harm happened to him, he 
had always a friend on whom he could rely. The officers who 
had signed the paper solicited Shah ‘Alam not to desert them, 
nor leave the king time to collect [126] an army. Thus they 
continued the march, already assured, as they thought, of 
victory and of a new king. 

The Deception is Discovered. 

When quite certain that his plot had ended in smoke, that it 
was impossible to cheat Shiva Jl, and there was a fear that 



i66 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


through the insistence of the officers, chiefly of Rajah Jaswant 
Singh, fiction might be turned into reality, Aurangzeb sent off 
an officer called Abduljafar (‘Abd-ul-ja‘far).^ His orders were 
to seize with one hand ShSh ‘Alam’s horse’s rein, and with the 
other hold out to him a letter, adding in a loud voice that by 
order of the Great Aurangzeb he must return to the place 
whence he had come, nor advance a single step farther. 

At such words Shah ‘Alam, Bahadur, betrayed terror ; his face 
grew pale, and he now displayed not valour, but consternation. 
He ordered a retreat upon Burhanpur and AurangSbad. The 
reader may here imagine for himself the fear and confusion 
into which the generals were thrown. They were discovered 
as traitors, while Diler Ebi5n passed on in pride, not having 
accepted the proposal. It is certainly the fact that they were 
all greatly perturbed, knowing that if Aurangzeb did not pardon 
traitors who were of use to him, he would certainly never 
pardon those who had wanted to thrust him forth from the 
royal seat. 

The war against ShivS Ji began anew ; but Aurangzeb had 
lost trust in the generals in the Dakhin and displaced them, . 
sending other captains in their place. Among others he sent 
Bahadur l^an. The displaced officers were sent elsewhere as 
viceroys and governors, and he kept them ever on the move from 
one government to another so long as he lived. Rajah Jaswant 
Singh was dispatched to the other side of the river Indus.® 
The rajah, although he made terrible grimaces, still obeyed, 
for fear that Aurangzeb might attack him and ruin his family. 
Shah ‘Alam went off to AurangSbSd, abandoning to BahSdur 
i^Sn charge of the campaign against Shiva JI. To the new 
commander Aurangzeb issued orders to defend the Dakhin 
firom the ravaging of Shiva Jl ; he was also ordered to attack 
Bijapur. Aurangzeb saw that unless he occupied that kingdom, 

* The ‘ Ma,a^r-i-‘Alamgiri,’ loi, says Ifti^Sr TThan (Sul^ Hnsain) was seat. 
For this man, see ‘ M.-nl-U.,’ L 252 ; he died in 1092 H. (1681-82). 

^ Jaswant Singh was made ffiSnahdSf of JamrQd (in the )^aibar Pass) in the 
foniteenth year, 1082 H. (1671). BahSdor TThan ’s appointment to the jDakhin 
was made in Shawwsl of the sixteenth year, 1083 H. (January-Febmary, 1673). 
On this occasion he was granted the title of TThan Jahan, Bahadur (• Ma,§gir-i- 
‘llamgtrl,’ log, line 10 ; 127, last line). 



AN OLD WOMAN HEADS A REVOLT 


167 


he would never be able to destroy Shiva JI. But of these 
campaigns I will speak hereafter (II. 157), so that I may not 
depart from the order of time. 

The Mundiyahs or Shavelings march on Dihli. [127] 

Among Hindu holy mendicants is a class of people who 
shave off all the hair from their body, not even sparing their 
eyebrows. This is why they are called Monddias (Munda), which 
means ‘ shaven.’ They collect from all directions at a place of 
pilgrimage, forty leagues distant from Dihll, and the assembly 
amounts to some twenty-five thousand upon the bathing-day. 
The bathing is in a great lake adjoining the country of Kirat 
Singh, younger son of Rajah Jai Singh.^ After the bathing 
ceremonies were completed, an old sorceress told them that if 
they would follow her orders she would make them masters of 
the city of Dihli, the king not having more than ten thousand 
horsemen, because all his other troops had gone with Shah 
^Alam on the expedition against Shiva JI, of which I have 
spoken (II. 20). 

They agreed to the proposal, and marched with such vigour 
that when the news reached the court Aurangzeb was par- 
ticularly disturbed in mind, and sent out against them his ten 
thousand horsemen. The Muyid^s fought with such vigour, 
upheld by the sorceries of the old woman, that they routed 
Aurangzeb’s army. At this result he was more disturbed than 
ever. They had already arrived within fifteen leagues of Dihll, 
when he ordered out all the troops he had been able to raise. 
Continuous reports were to be sent to him of what went on. 
But he felt that these men would never have undertaken such 
a great attempt without the help of sorcery. He therefore wrote 
out himself several papers, and sent them to be hung on the 

^ This description would apply to the Pohkar Lake, west of Ajmer. Elphin- 
stone, 557, giving the year 1087 H. (1676), says the rioters were SatnSmis from 
Namol (lat. i', long. 76® 11'), 150 miles, at least, north of Pohkar. There is a 
bathing-day at Pohkar on every full moon, but October is the principal gathering. 
The * Ma,asjr-i-‘Alamgiri,’ 114, 115 (Elliot and Dowson, vii. 185), says that on 
the 26th Zu,l Qa‘dah of the fifteenth year, 1082 H. (March 26, 1672), Ra*dandaz 
•Rnhg/n was sent out against the Satnamis, a set of low-caste men. See also 
TThsft Khan, ii. 252 (Elliot and Dowson, vii. 294). 



i68 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

heads of the elephants and horses, and on the standards, 
fatiguing himself greatly with the preparation of all those 
papers. 

It may be that some will give no credence to this my 
narrative; but it is the common fate of historians to be 
believed by some and doubted by others. I state the truth 
in saying that if the fact were not thus, I should not so write 
it. Nor should the reader be at all amazed that Aurangzeb 
should act in this way, for he is a past master in witchcraft, as 
may be inferred from the sacrifice of spice which he is used to 
offer up, as I have mentioned (II. i). If he wearied himself 
thus, it was from the great im'portance of the matter, for it 
was a question of losing kingdom and life, since, without 
exaggeration, Aurangzeb found himself at this moment in 
greater danger than at any time in the rest of his life, because, 
as I have said, he had very few troops. But the str eng th of 
these magical writings overcame the Mun 4 as, since, elated at 
having gained one battle, they would not consent to march 
any farther, although urged on by the old woman. Then the 
spells of Aurangzeb prevailed [128] over those of the old 
woman, and the Munios were shaved of their heads, nearly all 
dying, including the old woman herself. Aurangzeb came out 
of this affair with the reputation of a saint, as if through miracles 
he had put to flight these fakirs. When I reached Dihll, of 
which I am about to speak, I found that the cannon were still 
in position in the plain.^ 

Of what happened to Me in Goa, and how I left It. 

I stopped in Goa a year and three months. It is a place 
with a climate suited to men from forty up to old age ; but it 
is very unhealthy for young men. Thus a few months after my 
amvd I fell ill and could never recover my health. Therefore 
I retired to the convent of the Italian Carmelite priests, where I 

» According to this assertion, Manned must have reached Dihli again about 
t e middle of 1672. If he reached Goa in the spring of 1667, and stayed fifteen 
months, he left it about September, 1668 ; the rest of the time may be accounted 
tor by the journey, and by his stay in Aurangabad and Agrah. But the interval 
seems rather a long one. 



GOA, ITS FRUITS-^THE ACTUAL CAUTERY 169 

was well received and attended to for six months, during which 
I continued unwell.^ 

The ordinary diseases of this country are mort-de-chie 7 i (cholera) 
— that is, colic of the bowels with vomiting and laxity — and this 
complaint is the death of many. The best remedy is to burn 
with a red-hot iron the middle of the heel until the heat is felt, 
and by this the pain is allayed and the discharge and vomiting 
stopped.® Other complaints are spleen, the itch, and fevers. 
This is why the residents of Goa have bad complexions, although 
they have abundance of food, principally fruits. 

Among these is the mango, the best-flavoured fruit in India, 
and of it I will speak in the Third Part of my work (III. 228, 229). 
In Goa the gentlemen are very particular about having good 
kinds of this fruit. They give them special names, taken from 
the first person to have good mangoes of that kind. Thus 
they speak of mangoes of Niculao Afongo, which are the largest 
and best; Melajassas mangoes, and Carreynas mangoes. Among 
the other fruits are figs,® very sweet, but not of the same com- 
position as those of Europe ; they are a palm in length, more 
or less, and of various kinds. There are a quantity of Jacas 
(Jack-fruit), like large melons growing on the bark of the tree, 
with strong sharp thorns on the rind. There are two kinds — 
the harca Jack and the papa Jack, the nature of which I will 
state in my Third Part (III. 230). There are other kinds of 
fruit which I will not mention at present. But I referred to 
the above because they are better [129] and finer-looking here 
than elsewhere. 

^ For an account of the Carmelite convent, see J. N. da Fonseca, * Goa ’ 
(Bombay, 1878), p. 256, and No. 22 of his map. 

2 See ‘Lettres ^difiantes et Curienses,* edition 1781, xi. 159, note, where 
Pere Martin, S.J., quotes N. M. as recommending this treatment (a reference 
kindly given me by Professor Zachariae, of Halle). Manucci refers elsewhere 
to this treatment. It is also mentioned by contemporaries as a usual remedy (see, 
for instance, ‘Nouveau Voyage,’ 1726, by Le Sieur Luillier, p. 220; see also 
Part IIL, 49, 186). 

8 From the description these must be meant for the plantain or banana. It 
is strange he does not use one of these names, which were known and in use long 
before his time. But Yule, 56, quoting Pyrard de Lnval, circa 1610. says the 
Portuguese called the banana the ‘Indian fig.’ Barca and papa are two kinds 
of Jack-fruit (Yule, 443). 



170 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


The viceroy when I arrived was Antonio de Mello de Castro,^ 
who died afterv'ards a prisoner in Portugal, through good works 
of thieving, et cetera, of which he had been guilty in India. To 
replace him came Joao Nunes da Cunha, and this new governor 
as soon as he arrived undertook a great expedition. He kept 
his object secret, and it would have resulted in great honour to 
the Portuguese, if those who were envious of his earning this 
glory had not impeded its execution. There came from Masqat, 
a fortress on the Arabian coast formerly belonging to the Portu- 
guese, which by their negligence they lost,* when it passed into 
the hands of an Arabian prince — there came (I say) from this 
fortress to Goa a Portuguese named Andre da Andrada, who 
was commander of artillery there and passed for a Maho- 
medan. This man pledged his word to the new viceroy to 
deliver over the fortress if a strong fleet appeared before it by 
sea, and to secure that end he would spike the guns. 

The viceroy took up the proposal and hired a strong fleet 
of good ships and frigates for this service. But he let no one 
know what he meant to do ; and from this secrecy the Dutch 
dreaded some sudden blow at them, as they could not find out 
what such preparations were meant for. By the distribution 
of copious bribes in all directions they won over several of the 
officers. The viceroy, being desirous of equipping his ships 
well, ordered the embarkation by force of eveiy valid man, 
compelled the better class of the Portuguese from the northern 
parts to come to Goa, and directed that no one should be 
allowed to quit the place. Thus, when the ships were well 
fitted out, he made over sealed instructions to the captains, 
with the order not to open them until arrival at a certain 
latitude. 

Thus the fleet set sail without anyone knowing its destination. 

The twenty-ninth Viceroy, Antonio de Mello e Castro, was appointed on 
March ii, 1662, and received the title of Viceroy in 1663. He arrived in 
Bombay on September 29, 1662. His successor (thirtieth Viceroy), Joao Nnmes 
da Cnnha, Conde de Sa6 Vicente, was appointed March 11, arrived at Goa 

on November 6, 

- e ■ sobre a Estatisca das possessioes Portnguezas no oultra mar,' 

11 Sene, Livro V., Lisbon, 1862; and Danvers, ii. 327, 363, 364). 

* It capitulated on October 31, 1648 (F. Danvers, ii.296). 



PORTUGUESE PROJECT AGAINST MASQAT 171 

But the bribed pilots and captains sailed hither and thither with 
the ships, without overcoming the contrary winds, until they 
reached the appointed latitude, where the letters of instructions 
were opened, and some of them managed secretly to tamper 
with the water-casks, so that all the water was lost. The fault 
was put upon the viceroy, who, in his desire for haste, had not 
given time to prepare the ships properly. Thus there put into 
port only one frigate, which, in obedience to orders, anchored 
at Bandar Congo ^ on the Arabian coast, a Portuguese territory 
that now belongs to the King of Persia. There it waited some 
time for its companions until it was obliged to return to Goa, 
to avoid capture by those of Masqat, who profited by the 
treason. 

I GO TO Dihli. 

At the time of this expedition I was anxious to quit Goa; 
but I could not do it in lay clothing.^ I therefore left in the 
garb of a Carmelite monk until I had got beyond the district 
of Goa and had entered the territory of Bijapur, of which Shiva 
Ji had already taken possession. There I returned to my 
ordinary costume, and placed myself under the guidance of 
Divine Providence. I prayed God to deliver me from many 
perils, above all from robbers. For, a little time before my 
arrival, they had at a certain place murdered fifteen persons. 
Nor did they murder me as I passed by, but when they might 
have done it they saw me to be poor and a foreigner. A few 
paces farther on I met a traveller near some cattle-sheds who 
was escaping in haste, and he warned me to press onwards 
because the people following us were robbers. But, weakened by 
illness, I could not keep up with the pace of the man, who was 
acting as my guide in a country I did not know. I passed several 
chungamSy^ which are places where they collect money from 
people passing. The severity they exercise upon travellers is 

^ ^ Bandar Congo, on the northern shore of the Persian Gulf, about 100 miles 
west of Gombroon (Bandar ‘AbbSs) (Yule, 246). 

2 I.e.t because the Viceroy had prohibited all departures. 

® The Portuguese is ju?icoms. The ‘Madras Manual of Ad.,’ iii. 183, gives it 
as chunkam (Malalayam), * duty tax,’ but more probably connected, I think, with 
Hindi chun^, market dues, town duties, a handful of produce taken as rent. In 



172 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


great, depriving them of the smallest piece of money to be 
found upon them, with no tenderness for the poor, taking from 
them in defeult of money their shirts, coats, and sheets. 

Having come to the boundary of the Bijapur territory near 
the river Bimbra (Bhima.),^ I stopped for the night in a village 
called PandarapuE (Pandharpur) and on my arrival I took up 
my quarters in a public bdz&r, as is the custom of travellers, 
and deposited myself in an open shop. Some people passing said 
my waistcloth was crammed with pearls. I answered that I 
was only a poor traveller. God was good to me that night ! 
For at midnight the robbers entered the village, and the first 
thing they did was to come to the shop where I had put up. 
As they began by throwing a number of stones, I sought refuge 
inside, dragging with me a servant boy whom I had with me, 
to prevent his being killed. They did not venture inside, but 
shouted for me to fling out whatever I had, thrusting with their 
spears and cutting with their swords at the door. I assured 
them that I could fling out nothing, for I was a poor man, 
having nothing with me. Such was the terror that throttled 
me [131] that I could not utter a word, for I remembered what 
had been said to me that evening, that I had a waistbelt full of 
pearls, and I believed that they had come resolved to take my 
life; therefore I threw out two chains,® each of which might 
be worth some fifty rupees. They made off, robbing the bazar 
and killing people, so that there was great tribulation in the 
village. 

Not considering myself safe in that shop, I sallied forth, and 
traversing the streets I reached a house where I halted, and 

onr early records the word appears as juncan, and the collectors of it zsjmcanem. 
See the statement of their old rights drawn up by the Madras Council in 
December, 1711, printed in the appendix to C. R. Wilson’s ‘ Surman Embassy ’ ; 
see also Burnell’s articles * Junkameer ’ and ‘ Junkeon ’ (Yule, 473). 

^ The Bhima rises in lat, 19® 5', long. 73® 35', in Pflna district, and falls into 
the Kistna, lat. 16® 2o\ long. 77° 20', after a course of 380 miles (Thornton, 

* Gazetteer,’ 82, Beema). 

^ Pandharpur, on the Bhima. It is the place where Gangadhar Shastii, the 
Gaekwar’s minister, was murdered in 1815, and lies 112 miles south-east of Puna 
(Thornton, ‘ Gazetteer,’ 789, Punderpoor). 

® The text has colehas, which is either unmeaning or inappropriate {colehas= 
counterpanes). Mr. Dames suggests cadehas, cadeas, * chains, ’ which I adopt. 



MANUCCI ATTACKED BY DACOITS 


173 


finding the door open, I ascended some steps and reached a 
terraced roof. Here I fancied myself in security. But the 
owner of the house, who had heard the outcry in the village, 
came out of his room with sword and shield. On seeing me, 
he ordered me roughly to make my way downstairs. I told 
him I was a foreigner who had fled from the bazar, where the 
thieves had robbed me, and to save my life had taken refuge 
there, finding the door open. This did not persuade him to 
let me remain, but he insisted on my departing. I was content 
that he even let me go unharmed, for on hearing his first talk, 
I feared me much he was about to finish off what the robbers 
had begun. 

I now went to the steps of a temple, where many persons 
had taken shelter out of the way of the arrows flying about 
the streets and the sword-blows being distributed in all direc- 
tions. Nor was it without some trouble that I got in even there. 
Next a Brahman refused to let me stop, thrusting me forth by 
force. But God repaid him for his want of charity, for while 
he was interfering with me, there came an arrow and hit him 
on the leg and I was rid of him. The thieves withdrew, and 
I, too, found a refuge again in the bazar, but not in the same 
shop, for I feared greatly they might come there once more. 
I spent the night in the discomfort that everyone can imagine. 
At dawn, feeling much afflicted, I chewed a clove, washing it 
down with a little warm water, whereupon I vomited several 
clots of thickened blood, and felt relieved. 

I continued my journey up to the crossing on the river [? the 
Bhima] . Although it is wide, there were no boats ; I crossed 
seated on a small bedstead attached to the tops of four pots. 
I then reached Paranda (Parenda),^ in the Mogul territory, 
where I came across my friends of the fortress of Bhakkar. 
They took compassion on my poverty, regaled me, succoured 
me with money, clothes, and a mount, on which I resumed my 
travels and arrived at Aurangabad [132]. 

^ Paxenda, now in the Naldrng district of the Nizam’s dominions, lat. iS** 16', 
long. 75® 30' There is an old fortress erected by Mahmud Gawan, a minister 
of the BahmanI kings. The district was incorporated in the Mogul Empire 
by Anrangzeb wh'^n Viceroy of the Dakhin (Syed Hossain and C. Willmott, 
* Historical and Descriptive Sketch,’ ii. 707 ; Bombay, 1884). 



174 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


Travelling is a teacher of many things, and he who wanders 
without learning anything can only be said to have the head of 
an ass. The horse given me by Manoel Ribeiro at Parenda 
had only a few days before arrived from Dihll, a journey of 
forty-six days, and it was thus much out of condition. It 
happened one day that my servant opened his bag, in which 
he had a nutmeg, and by carelessness he left this nut on the 
ground, and the horse ate it. Next day, on mounting, I noticed 
that he was much more lively in his gait. I did not know the 
cause of this freshness ; then I remembered he had eaten a nut 
the night before, and I concluded that must be the cause. Nor 
was I wrong, for, giving him each day one nut, he became ever 
more ready and clever. 

After my arrival in Aurangabtd I lived retired. This was 
the time at which, as I have related (II. 122-124), Shah ‘Alam 
was busy trying to get hold of Shiva JI, and I was informed of 
the friar’s death in the way that I have recounted ( 11 . 121). I 
went on through Burhanpur, where I found several friends among 
the servants of Jai Singh, all disconsolate at the death of that 
great general. I felt his death very much, although I had no 
intention of re-entering his service, for I wanted to start as a 
doctor. Thence I went on to Agrah, where I visited the Jesuit 
fathers, and reported to them what was going on at Goa. I 
did not stay long, but passed on to Dihli. Thereupon, on 
learning of my arrival, there was no fail of women who proposed 
marriage to me and sent me cloth and money and banquets of 
food. One of them sent me fifty gold coins and a horse, and 
handsome stuff to make me clothes. I went to see Klrat 
Singh, the younger son of Rajah Jai Singh, who, in remembrance 
of the great affection his father held me in, and which he con- 
tinued to me, gave me a set of robes, two horses, and five 
rupees every day, and a handsome house to live in. By this 
means those envious of my good fortune, who had expected to 
see me under the necessity of appljnng to them for my expenses, 
knowing that I was out of service, were in amazement at seeing 
me well dressed, owning horses, and keeping servants. Any 
foreigner who is out of employment can only subsist in a miser- 
able feshion in that country. 



OPPRESSIVE INTERNAL CUSTOMS DUTIES 


m 


Aurang^eb remits the Tobacco Tax. 

On reaching Dihll, I heard that only a short time before the 
king had withdrawn the tobacco tax, owing to a horrible event 
that happened. All the world knows [133] that the tax-con- 
tractors who engage for the taxes and duties are most shameless 
and mannerless. They spare no respectable persons, except those 
of the highest position, and that chiefly when Mahomedans, 
such persons being, as they know, very easily roused. It hap- 
pened that a soldier of strict habits wanted to enter the city, 
having vidth him his wife in a covered vehicle, as usual among 
Mahomedans. A tax-gatherer ordered him to halt, and asked if 
he had any tobacco. The Mahomedans consume a great deal 
of this article in smoking. This is why the chief tax-farmer 
paid five thousand rupees a day at this city (Dihll) only. From 
this the reader can understand what would be the revenue 
from tobacco paid to the King of Hindustan throughout such 
a great empire. 

The soldier replied that he, being a man of serious habits, 
did not smoke tobacco, neither he nor his wife, who was in the 
vehicle, and he might trust his word. The tax-collector would 
not believe him, and wanted to search the cart. To this the 
soldier would not consent, not wishing his wife to be seen in 
public, and remonstrated, saying if such an affront were done 
him, he would repent of it later on. But the tax-collector 
would not listen to a word, and uncovered the vehicle to make 
his search. The soldier laid hand on his sword and cut off the 
man’s head, also wounded several attendants. Not content 
with this even, he killed his wife too, and a daughter she had 
with her. He was seized and carried off to prison, and a com- 
plaint was laid before the king. Upon hearing the soldier’s 
defence, the king abolished the tax and released the soldier, 
having compassion on him for his loss of temper. Among the 
Mahomedans it is a great dishonour for a family when a wife 
is compelled to uncover herself. By this event tobacco was no 
longer so dear, and numerous merchants lost much from this 
circumstance, whereby the king conferred a benefit on the 
poor. 



176 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


I GO TO LXhor and declare Myself as a Physician. 

I lived in DihlT one year in splendid style, having honourable 
means of making money. Then, by the king’s order, Kirat 
Singh went to Kabul, ^ and I determined to move to Labor 
and give myself out as a doctor. I could not start this at 
Dihli, where there were already some Europeans, while in 
Labor there was none. 

On reaching Labor I found that Muhammad Amin KTj^n 
was governor, Aurangzeb having kept his promise to make him 
a viceroy.® As soon as [134I I arrived I put up in the sarae 
with my grand carpets and my petty establishment, until I 
could find a house. I hired one belonging to BarqandSz Khan ^ 
my commander in Dart’s time (I. 156, 240), and I instructed 
my servants to inform everyone who asked about me that I 
■was a Farangl doctor. Through this many came to talk with 
me, and in return I had no want of words, God having given 
me a sufficiently mercurial temperament. Thus it began to be 
noised in Labor that a Frank doctor had arrived, a man of fine 
manners, eloquent speech, and great experience. I rejoiced at 
such a reputation, but my heart beat fast, for then I had had 
no experience. It pleased God, our Sovereign Lord, to open 
the door to me vnth a case furnished me by his Di-vine Providence. 

There came to me in the house where I . had settled an old 
woman, who told me that the -wife of the qd^ was very ill, and 
given up by all the Persian and Indian physicians. She requested 
the fevour of my proceeding to the qdzVs house to see the woman, 
and decide whether there was any cure; for all the doctors 
had said that if anyone cured her they would burn all their 
books and profess themselves disciples of him who cured her. 

I put several questions about the illness of the woman ; I told 

1 There must be a mistake here, for Kirat Singh died in the Dakhin just before 
the aSth RabI' II. of the sixteenth year, 1084 H. (August 12, 1673) (‘M.-i-‘A.,' 
128). He was the father-in-law of Muhammad 'Agim, Shah ‘Alam’s second son. 

> Muhammad Amin became Governor of Labor in the tenth year. 

1078 H. (between June, 1867, and February, 1668) (‘M.-i-'A.,’ 63. Une i). In 
the thirteenth year, 1080 H. (January, 1670, to January, 1671), he was sent to 
Kabul, vice Mahabat ^^n (i&td., 104, line ii). The latter dates do not <jnite fit 
Manucci’s narrative if he did not arrive at Dihli u nt il 1672. 



MANUCCrS FIRST PATIE^^T 


177 


the messenger to return home and I would follow, saying that, 
although the complaint seemed mortal, I would see if there was 
any remedy. 

I mounted my horse and rode to the qazVs house, followed 
by my servants. Entering the house, I felt the patient’s pulse. 
The attack was growing more and more severe, and no pulse 
could be felt, nor could I find out the seat of the disease. I 
trusted more to several secret experiments I knew, and to my 
questions. I racked my brains to think of something I could 
give to the patient that might do her good. I asked if she had 
been relieved, and they told me that for days she did not know 
what thing a motion was. This sufficed for me to start my 
treatment, and I told the old woman that the only thing was 
to administer a clyster. The old woman and the patient’s son 
were much opposed to this, the Mahomedans having objections 
to this treatment. But the patient was already speechless. I 
said : Agar zarurat bay ad , rawa haMishad — ^that is, ‘ Necessity 
has no law ’ — ^which are words of the Quran. Thus they gave 
in to my resorting to this treatment, and I told the old woman 
to come to my house in a few hours, and I would give her all 
that was required for the application. 

I came forth from this house leaving [135] an excellent im- 
pression from my many questions and my copious flow of talk. 
But now came the moment when our Nicolao Manuchy found 
himself in a difficulty. For I knew not what ingredients I 
must employ, nor to what implements I could have recourse 
for this wonderful operation. After much searching of heart, I 
recollected that the enemas administered to me at Goa were con- 
cocted of mallows, wild endive, and some other herbs, with a 
trifle of bran, black sugar, salt, olive oil, and Canna fistula, I sent 
out for these things, and made a concoction. But the greatest 
difficulty was to get the instrument. For this I sent and got 
a cow’s udder, and for the tube I took a piece of cane from a 
huqqah snake, through which the Mahomedans draw their 
tobacco. I managed to put these together in a manner that 
would serve. I placed the concoction into the udder, and 
fastened the tube to it. Then the old woman came, and to 
her I made over the injection, teaching her how she was to 

VOL. II. 12 



178 OF KING AVRANGZEfi, SIXTH KING OF HINDOSTiN 


deal witti it. I enjoined on her to come and inform me when 
the operation had been performed. 

I declared to her that if in a period of three hours the enema 
did not take effect, the patient had no hope of life. It was 
advisable for me to make this assertion, since, should the 
patient die I could say I had foretold the result as inevitable. 
This was necessary to keep my reputation intact. Off went 
the old woman, and my heart began to beat hard, knowing not 
what effect the medicine might have. Soon I heard a knocking 
at my door as by one in haste. My anxiety was redoubled. It 
might be the news of the patient’s death, through which I 
should lose the reputation that I was in search of. For the 
Mahomedans easily assign one a reputation, and as easily take 
it away. A happy cure at the start suffices to give the greatest 
credit, even if the cure be a mere accident. On the contrary, 
if there is a failure in the first case, even when the doctor is 
exceedingly learned and experienced, it suffices to prevent him 
ever being esteemed. 

I sent to have the door opened, when the old woman fell at 
my feet and gave me many blessings, telling me that the patient 
had already begun to mend, that she had had a large stool with 
great violence, voiding pellets as hard as camel-dung. Thus 
she urgently prayed me to visit the qa?i's house to see the 
patient and continue the cure. Proud and elated by this news, 
I told her how necessary it was to confide in experienced phy- 
sicians, that if I had not given her this medicament, composed 
of ingredients [136] known to me alone, the patient was bound 
to die. I went and found the patient had already begun to 
speak, and recognise everyone who was present. She was very 
different firom what she had been for some days, for they told 
me that she knew no one and could not speak. I thought it 
advisable to discharge nature farther, so I gave her a light 
medicine, continuing it daily until the system was well 
cleansed. Then, with chicken-broth and bezoar stone,^ I began 
to strengthen the patient in such a way that in a few days she 
was restored to perfect health. 

^ Hard concretions found in the stomach of certain animals, supposed in the 
East to be of medicinal value (Yule, 90). 



MUHAMMAD AMIS KHAS 


179 


This case became notorious among the principal men in 
Labor, for this wife was much loved by her husband, the qdzi, 
so that he had called in all the physicians to treat her disease. 
Thus there began to be talk of the Farangl doctor who was 
capable of resuscitating the dead. This caused me to be called 
in by many sick persons, and by adhering to certain books I 
had, I succeeded by God’s favour in almost every case in which 
I was sent for. 

My fame reached the court of Muhammad Amin ^an, 
governor of the city and viceroy of the province of Labor. He 
sent for me, and after a long conversation on the subject of 
diseases and good health, he wanted to make me take service 
with him, offering me little pay but great liberty. But I knew 
the style of man, veiy haughty, far from genial, just like the 
character of his father, Mir Jumlah. So I said that as to 
becoming his servant, I objected; still, I should not fail to 
appear at the palace whenever necessary, either for himself or 
for those of his family. He was a little put out by my answer, 
but I paid no attention to that, for I was already on friendly 
terms with the chief people in the city, and by God’s blessing 
my practice was successful. Thus I knew of a certainty that, 
in spite of Muhammad Amin Qian’s desire to do me an injury, 
he would never dare. He would not give such an opening to 
the other nobles to make complaint of him at the court of 
Dihll. On the other hand, although he was much aggrieved 
at my not frequenting his audiences, he betrayed no anger, for 
he saw I was of use for attending his wives and sons. There 
happened to me a terrible business at the time of his departure 
from Labor for Kabul, of which I will speak in its proper 
place (II. 150). 

Origin and Description of the City of LIhor. [137] 

Meanwhile I know the reader will be pleased at learning 
the origin of this great city of Labor where I made my fortune, 
since I have exact information of how it came to be built. I 
feel under an obligation to write about its origin as a mark of 
my gratitude to a city which did me such signal benefit. The 

12 — 2 



i8o OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF^HINDUSTAN 


reader will get a lesson from the fidelity of a slave, and learn 
how sometimes in persons of lowly birth lies hidden great 
nobility of heart. Thus the origin of Labor was as follows. 

There was a Sultan Mahmud Ca^inki (Ghaznavi), a Maho- 
medan King of Kabul, who styled himself King of Ghazni, 
because these kings then held their court in that city. It 
stood between Kabul and Qandahar, but is to-day in ruins. This 
king had a slave called Meleq S^as (Malik Khasb^ which means 
‘ Chosen Noble.’ This title was given him because while still 
a child he had great sense, as he showed on the occasion of 
which I here tell the story. 

There came to the king an ambassador from Persia, who had 
a handsome and very expert slave. Since Suljan Mahmud was 
very fond of seeing these creatures when expert, he talked with 
the ambassador on the qualities of his slave. The ambassador 
gave high praise to his boy, saying that he had a good under- 
standing and was most exact at his duties. Sultan Ma^ud 
wanted to try an experiment on this boasted good judgment. 
There arrived at the city a number of loaded horses and camels, 
and the king asked the ambassador to send his slave to find out 
what they were. The slave went, and brought back the simple 
answer that it was a caravan come from Persia. On hearing 
this reply, Sul^ain Mahmud said to the ambassador that he, too, 
had a slave, and he wished to see if he had more judgment and 
was more exact. He called to his presence Malik ^^Is, and 
told him to go to the spot and find what people they were who 
had come into the city. Malik !&as went, and in a short 
while came back with the answer that it was a caravan from 
Isfahan ; it left on such and such a day of the month, rested 
so many days on the way, reached Qazwin in so many days ; 
it had two leaders, giving the name of both ; in the caravan 
were so many mules, so many horses, and so many camels. It 
consisted of such and such merchandise, and would halt for 
such and such a time, and they sought [138] such and such 
goods for the return journey to Persia. The ambassador was 

1 More probably it ought to be read Ghiyas, meaning Abu.l Path, Ghivas- 
ud-dln Muhammad, though, of course, he was not a slave, but a Malik (prince) ; 
nor was he a contemporary of MahmSd Qhaznavf. 



XVII. Sultan KIm Bakhsh, Fifth Son of Aurangzeb. 





THE FAITHFUL IVAZiR AND THE ENVIOUS COURTIERS iSi 


in astonishment to see a slave of such tender years give such a 
minute report of the Cafilah, and acknowledged there was a 
great difference between his and the king's slave, 

Malik Qias grew up, and was found to be capable of great 
office. The king, who loved him much, raised him up to be 
his chief minister, on whom the whole government depended. 
Courts are very fertile in envy, and occasions of uneasiness 
were not wanting to Malik Khas. The nobles could not endure 
that a slave should hold so excellent an office, and they told 
against this loyal servitor all the wicked stories they could 
invent. But the king already knew the fidelity and the love 
of his slave, and paid no heed to these envious speeches. One 
of the things that these enviers of others’ good fortune persuaded 
the king to do, was to enter without any warning the room of 
Malik Khas, where he would be found, they said, writing 
treasonable letters to the hurt of the kingdom and the king, 

Sultan Mahmud gave way to the wishes of his courtiers, and 
he found Malik Khas taking a rest on his bed. At the entry of 
the king, Malik Hbias opened his eyes, and finding it was the 
king, he shut them again ; and the king approaching, through 
the love he held to him kissed him and retired. From this the 
envious men found an opening for saying to the king that Malik 
Khas no longer paid respect to His Majesty, for though aware 
of his sovereign’s appearance in the room, seeing he had opened 
his eyes, he had not attempted to move, and had dissembled his 
knowledge out of hauteur. He forgot that, however great he 
may be, a servant is always a servant, and must honour his 
lord. If Malik ^Las had done no other offence, this act of 
disrespect to His Majesty sufficed; he deserved to be disgraced 
and expelled from the court. 

Sultan Mahmud tried to make excuses for his favourite, 
saying his closing the eyes was out of respect and not disrespect. 
Nevertheless, he would like to know the truth from Malik Etas 
himself. Therefore he caused him to be sent for to audience, 
and before everybody made a pretence of being provoked, and 
complained of Malik Khas* pride, who shut his eyes in order not 
to have to rise and pay his duty to his lord when accompanied by 
the greatest in the kingdom. The slave asked leave to state his 



i 82 of king a URANGZEB, sixth king of HINDUSTAN 


excuses and his reasons. In the hearing of them all he said 
that, worn out in doing the king service, he was taking a rest, 
and he quite well saw His Majesty enter into his [139] room. 
But, ignorant of His Majesty’s intention in coming, he shut his 
eyes, so as to afford him the greatest liberty to do what he 
wanted. Even were it intended to behead him he was quite 
prepared for it, being but a slave; and when aware of his 
kissing him, he did not move for fear of inconveniencing His 
Majesty. The king was satisfied, finding the reply of his servant 
in conformity with the conclusion he had come to himself. 

This did not make the envious cease their efforts ; they employed 
spies to follow Malik !^as and find out everything he did. Then 
they went to Sultan Mahmud and told him that every day Malik 
^ 135 , before he came to audience, went into his garden, where in 
one corner was a little house, and in it a box. He entered the 
room alone and closed the door, so that no one could know what 
he was doing, and it might be that he performed some spell to 
procure His Majesty’s affection, or went there to conceal some 
treasonable papers. The king told Malik ©.as to prepare a 
banquet ; he and the grandees wished to resort to his garden to 
disport themselves. The obedient servant made no demur. 
The king went with his greatest nobles, and in promenading 
round the garden, the envious men brought the king past the 
said house. Making a sign to him, they succeeded in making 
him ask for the key of the said hut. On entering, he found it 
full of cobwebs and an old box lying in a corner. Pretending to 
laugh at such a treasure-house, he asked what precious thing 
was hidden in that lovely chest. His slave replied that there 
was nothing fit to show His Majesty, nor, as the box was old, 
was it fit for putting precious things in. 

These words were quite enough to make the courtiers urge 
the king not to come out until he knew and had seen what 
thing was preserved in such an escritoire. Malik ©as resisted 
for a time, until the king himself said he wanted to see what 
was in the box. Malik ©as drew out the key from his pocket, 
opened the box, and satisfied the hunger and thirst, from which 
his enemies were suffering, for getting hold of something to ruin 
the faithful man. The box was opened, and it was found that there 



THE WAZlR'S HUMILITY 183 

was nothing in it but an old and rusty sickle and a peasant’s hairy 
cloak. They were all astonished at finding there was in the 
box nothing of any value in the eyes of men ; and where they 
had tried to catch Malik S^as and ruin him, they were only the 
means of making [140] him still greater, as so often results to 
those unjustly persecuted. If princes allow time to do its work 
and are not precipitate, they can always attain certainty about the 
machinations of the envious. The king asked the reason of 
his retaining such articles, and why, every day before going to 
court, he shut himself up in that room. The wise Malik 
replied that, aware of the bounties the king had conferred and 
was conferring every day upon him, he dreaded he might grow 
proud. Therefore he came every day to behold the sickle and 
the cloak, so as to be reminded that if, by any evil deed, he 
came to be banished from court, he would be forced to live as 
his father had done, wearying himself in the sun cutting herbs 
and grass. Having this consideration fresh in his head, he 
ever renewed his resolve to serve his lord with fidelity. 

At this time they recognised the meaning of these words, which 
were often on his lips : ‘ Malik Khds ! jde yhud-rd shinds ’ — ^that is, 
‘ Malik Khas, know your place.’ This he said because, finding 
a kingdom in his power, he felt at times a temptation to pride 
and to rebellion. It was to say, as it were, that he had no 
cause to exalt himself, being of such lowly extraction. If those 
who are the favourites of fortune at any king’s or prince’s court 
could remember that it was merely luck, and that they might fall 
once more into worse condition, princes would have more loyal 
servants, and the great would not be so ready to look down upon 
the humble. 

Malik Htas did one thing which was of great profit to the 
king, wherein he acted as a man of wisdom. Sultan Mahmud 
was a great hater of heathendom, and had as his nickname 
‘ Destroyer of Temples.’ It happened that in a battle he 
(Malik !^as) overcame the Hindus, and, destroying a temple, 
carried to the king one of the images, which the Hindus wished 
to redeem by a large payment. Sultan Mahmud assembled his 
council, and all voted for his taking the money, with which he 
could then continue the war against the Hindus, and thus 



i 84 of king a URANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

destroy them utterly. The king would not carry out the deci- 
sion of his councillors until he had heard the opinion of Malik 
laas. He said to the king that it was not a good proposal, 
since His Majesty’s greatest fame and glory was to be known 
as the Destroyer of Temples. If he took this money, he would 
be henceforth called the ‘Vendor of [141] Temples’; thus 
would he come to lose the great name he had. Better were it 
to order the image to be destroyed in his own presence; it 
had a large abdomen. Sultan Mahmud listened to the words 
of his wise and faithful servant, and there and then ordered 
a mace to be brought, and the image to be broken. Hidden 
in the abdomen there was a great quantity of precious stones, 
pearls of great price, and other valuables. In this way he 
(Malik l^as) preserved the good name of his master without 
losing the money to be obtained by selling the image. On the 
contrary, a great deal more was gained. 

Finally, Sultan MahmQd wanted to test the fidelity of his 
slave, or, we may say, he wished to protect him from the envy 
of the courtiers by raising him still higher, and giving him his 
freedom. But here the reader will see what fidelity can do 
with a heart of which it has once taken possession. The king 
gave to Malik !|^as much money and many soldiers, so that he 
might search for some lovely site, there to found a large and 
handsome city in his own name. He added a secret order that 
after the said city had been built he (Malik !^as) should send 
a defiance to his master. 

Malik !^§s obeyed, and came to a bare and spacious plain ‘ 
near to a fine river called the Raw. There he constructed the 
handsome and beneficent city of Labor, called by its residents 
‘ Allah-nur ’ — ^that is, * Day-dawn of God.’ When the city was 
completed, he sent a defiance to Sultan Mahmud, calling on 
him to enter the field and fight. It would be impossible to 
detail the exclamations and speeches of the courtiers to the 
king. They told him that now he beheld the loyalty of his 
slave; well had they recognised the pride of Malik i^as. 
But the king had attached more value to the hypocrisy of a 
slave than to the loyalty of so many faithful followers, who, 
as members of high-placed families, were endowed with sensi- 



FOUNDING OF LAHOR’-ITS GATES 185 

tive souls, and full of all good qualities. Now the only remedy 
was to take the field and destroy this rebel, who repaid by 
revolt the love of a great king. 

Sultan Mahmud ordered his army to take the field, and he 
marched against the pretendedrebel. They were to fight together, 
and the officers of the Ghazni king, eager to show their loyalty 
and valour, longed for nothing so much as the hour of battle. 
They hoped for reward from the court, coupled with the death 
and [142] overthrow of their hated rival. Battle was delivered, 
and Malik l^as was able to dispose his soldiers so carefully that 
he succeeded in defeating the army and capturing the king, 
his master. He carried the king to the new city, and made him 
ascend a high throne, while he (Malik IChas), with a rope round 
his neck and his hands bound, came and fell at Sultan Mahmud’s 
feet, and exclaimed that the slave had obeyed his master. On 
his part, Sultan Mahmud took him to his arms and kissed him, 
and, removing the rope from his neck, caused him to sit at his 
side upon the same throne, and assigning him great revenues, 
confided to him the kingdom of Labor, and retired himself 
to the realm of Ghazni. 

This is the origin of the famous city of Labor, which has 
twelve gates, called: Qadirl Darwazah, which is on the river 
bank towards the north ; YakkP Darwazah, on the same side ; 
Dilli Darw^ah, which is used by those going to and coming from 
Dihll ; Akbarl Darw^ah ; Mochi Darw^ah — that is, ‘ Gate of 
the Shoemaker ’ — and it got this name on the following occasion ; 
Near this gate dwelt a shoemaker who had a lovely daughter, 
with whom a Pathan youth fell in love. To get possession 
of her, he had recourse to a procuress called Giho, who feigned 
to be a physician. She managed cleverly to smuggle the 
youth into the girl’s room hidden in a box, on the pretext that 
it contained medicines to treat the girl. The girl was a con- 
senting party, and on Giho’s advice had shammed illness. 
Three days afterwards the girl found that the illness from 

^ Yakki, a corruption of Zaki, the name of a saint and martyr who lost his 
life close by (Syed Mahomed Latif, * History of Lahore, ’ p. 83 ; Lahore, 1892). 
Of the thirteen existing gates, eight bear the same names as in Manucci’s time. 
The Qadiri, Multani, and Ghakkari Gates no longer bear those names. There are 
five new names— Raushanai. Masti, Khizri, Lohari, Takshali Gates. 



i86 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDDSTAN 


which she suffered was alleviated. The father remunerated the 
old woman, who came back to remove the box to her own 
house. Since there were not enough porters, the shoemaker 
lent a hand. As they went along the road they got mixed 
up with a string of ill-tempered camels, and there the box fell to 
the ground. Owing to this great fall it opened, and out came 
the Pathan youth, who set a-running. Seeing this, the shoe- 
maker found out the knavery ; and the story was told all over 
the city, whereby this gate acquired the name aforesaid. [The 
other gates are] Shah ‘llami Darwazah; Bhatl Darwazah; 
MultSnl DarwSzah, on the road leading to Multan ; Mori Dar- 
wazah ; Ghakkari Darwazah, leading to the lands of the Ghak- 
kars; Kashmiri Darwazah, which opens on the road to 
Kashmir. 

The walls are all [143] of well-burnt bricks, high, and 
provided with bastions. The houses are lofty, some having 
eight stories. As to the number of people in this city, it is 
not easy to make an estimate, for the hotwal told me that he 
collected a weekly tax from six thousand houses of ill-fame ; from 
this assertion careful people can arrive at the number there must 
be of public de joie, besides those who conceal themselves. 
The city is inhabited by great and rich merchants who deal with 
the whole of India, and it is the key to the kingdoms of Kabul, 
Bal^, Tartary, Kashmir, Persia, Baloches, Multan, Bhakkar, 
and Tattah. For it is crammed with foreigners, is well provided 
with provisions, and has a population of ruddy complexion 
inclining to whiteness. Round the city are fine gardens filled 
with various kinds of fruit, chiefly peaches, which are fine 
and large and in great abundance. Once, out of curiosity, I 
weighed one of them, and without exaggeration, it weighed 
thirteen ounces. There are many quinces (marmelos), figs, 
mulberries, stoneless grapes, mangoes, and melons of many 
kinds. The air is very good and wholesome, as may be seen 
by the complexions of the inhabitants, above all firom the 
villagers, men and women, a very simple folk, well-built and 
fiiendly-natured. There is an abundance of wells, from which 
they draw water by thick ropes^ with the aid of oxen. 

^ The text has worn, for which I read amavros, ‘ cables, hawsers.’ 



A TURKISH REFUGEE 


187 


Islam Khan comes from Basrah. 

Before I continue with the events that I encountered in 
the exercise of medicine, it is necessary to state what happened 
in the kingdom, so as to preserve the order of time, which I 
profess to follow as much as I can, that the reader may know 
the dates at which the matters noticed took place. In this 
year of one thousand six hundred and seventy-three came from 
Basrah an Arabian prince called Islam Qian^ with six hundred 
Arabians, some of whom rode fine horses. The said prince 
had fled because the Grand Seignor had sent orders for his 
beheadal, I know not for what cause. When he arrived, he 
possessed considerable wealth in pearls, and he was received 
by Aurangzeb in a friendly way. Desirous of turning him 
into a defender of the kingdom, Aurangzeb wished to give 
the daughter of Murad Ba^sh to his son in marriage. But 
Islam !^an was not attracted by such an alliance. After this 
refusal Aurangzeb, who knew how to dissimulate [144], fixed 
high pay for him and his son, but at the same time planned 
treachery against him. He sent him to take part in the w'ar 
against Bijapur, and privately enjoined Bahadur Eban, under 
whom the prince was to serve, that during a battle he should 
be abandoned and left with none but his own small force. 
Thus did Sharzah Khan and his troops destroy him and his 
men. For never did Aurangzeb pardon anyone who had 
declined to do his will. 

Marriage of the Princesses. 

This was the year (? 1673) of marriages, for in it was married 
that same girl (Murad Ba^sh’s daughter) to a Pirzadah or holy 
man of Bal^, as to whom I shall speak further on (II. 60). 
In it, too, Aurangzeb married two of his own daughters — that 

^ Husain P 5 sha, beglarbegl of Basrah, fled to IrSn, and thence to India. On 
the iith Safar, twelfth year, 1080 H. Quly ii, 1669), he reached Agharabad, close 
to Dihli. He was received in audience, given the title of Islam Khan, and made 
Governor of Malwah ; but in 1083 H. (1672-73) he had fallen out of favour. He 
was placed on duty in the Dakhin under Bahadur E^Ln (Khan Jahan Kokaltash), 
and was killed in battle there on the iith Rabi* II., 10S7 H. (June 24, 1676) 
(see *M.-ul-U.,’ i. 241-247; * M.-i-‘A,,’ 85, 121 ; and * Tarikh-i-Muhammadi *). 



i88 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


is to say, Zlnat-un-niss§. Begam, and Badr-un-nissa Begam, 
as I said at the beginning (II. 41) — one to the son of Dara, 
and the other to the son of Murad Ba^sh ; he also married 
the beautiful JanI Begam to Suljan A‘zam, to whom on that 
occasion was given the title of A'zam-tarS. She was not 
married to Sultan Akbar, as stated by Monsieur Bernier, who, 
from not being present, fell into error. Begam Sahib, or 
Padshah Begam, to the seed-pearls which issued from her 
eyes at thus losing her beloved niece, added lovely pearls and 
handsome jewels as a marriage present. After the marriage, 
Aurangzeb sent Prince A'zam Tara as viceroy to Bengal.^ 

A curious case happened in Dihli in the matter of marriages. 
For the daughter of ‘Abd-ul-wahhab,® on learning that the king 
was marrying off his daughters and nieces, also wanted to be 
married. However, her father had no such intention, for she 
looked after his house and had his wealth under her control. 
Nevertheless, she managed to get her father to give her in marriage 
without his knowing it. It was in this way : she got up a 
friendship with a youth in the neighbourhood, who came and 
went secretly without the father suspecting an3^hing. Next she 
decided to leave the house one day in a covered palanquin, 
having first sent all the property to a place of security. Then 

^ Bernier, 126, only speaks of the marriage to Akbar as ‘intended,’ not as 
carried out. Jahan-zeb Bano Begam (known as Jani Begam), daughter of DarS 
Shukoh, was married to Muhammad A*zam, Aurangzeb’s third son, on the 
17th Safar, eleventh year, 1079 H. (July 28, 1668), and the wedding-feast took 
place on the 17th Rajab (January i, 1669). She died at Ahmadabad (Gujarat) in 
Shawwal, 1116 H. (February, 1705). Muhammad A*gam was sent first to Multan 
for two years (1675-77), and then to Bahar and Bengal. He arrived at Dhakah 
on the 17th Rabi* of the twenty-first year, 1089 H. (June 8, 1678). There is an 
anecdote of Jani Begam’s bravery in Khafi Khan, ii. 317. In 1095 H. (1684), 
during a fight outside BijSpur, she used bow and arrow valiantly from the top 
of her elephant. Muhammad Salih, son of ^^wajah Tahir, Naqshbandi, married 
Asaish Bano Begam, daughter of Murad Ba^sh, on the 2nd Jamada II, of the 
fifteenth year, 1083 H. (September 26, 1672). Ezad Ba^sh, son of the same 
prince, married Mihr-un-nissa, Aurangzeb’s daughter, in the fifteenth year, 
1083 H. (December, 1672), and Sipihr Shukoh, son of Dara, married Zubdat- 
un-nissa, another daughter, on the 21st Shawwal of the sixteenth year, 1083 H. 
(February 10, 1673) (‘Ma,asir-i-‘Alamgiri,’ 74, 120, 125, and * Tari^-i-Muham- 
madi, year 1116), According to the histories, Badr-un-nissa never married ; she 
died on 28th Zi Qa'dah, sixteenth year, 1083 H. (March 18, 1673). 

2 For *Abd-ul-wahbab, see I. 277, II. 3, and III. 52. 



QAZI ^ABD-UL-WAHHAB imposed on 189 

she went in the youth’s company to the qazVs public audience. 
On arriving there, the youth said to ‘Abd-ul-wahhab that he and 
the woman in the palanquin had made a vow [145] to be married 
by him. The qaft, not recognising the woman to be his daughter, 
asked her if she consented to marriage with the youth. Dis- 
guising her voice, she answered * Yes.’ The qdzT performed the 
ceremony and dismissed them. 

The youth and his bride feared that the qazt by his influence 
might get the marriage annulled. The bridegroom therefore 
hastened at once to the captain of the guard, an acquaintance 
of his, and informing him of the facts, begged his friend to let 
him speak with the king and get His Majesty to act the god- 
father in the matter. Aurangzeb laughed over the story, and 
at once gave an order to bring the qazt to him, before he had 
gone home and found out that his daughter was not in the 
house ; they were to tell him that what he had done was well 
done, but not a word was to be breathed about the marriage or 
anything else. 

Rendered anxious by such a message, 'Abd-ul-wahhab started 
for his house, and found that his daughter was not in her apart- 
ments. Searching, and again searching, he discovered a small 
opening made in the wall, and by this time he realized that 
the marriage he had just performed had been the marriage of 
his daughter. He was much cast down, but his sadness was 
doubled when, on opening his boxes, he found that all that he 
had gathered together by impostures had been carried off by 
his daughter with a liberal hand. From this contretemps, 
aggravated by heart complaint, he fell ill and died in great 
pain, a terrible death.^ 

Death of Roshan Ara Begam. 

If this year was a joyful one for these marriages, it was a sad 
one through what occurred in the apartments of Roshan Ara 
Begam. She kept there nine youths in secret for her diversion. 
The discoverer of this noble conduct was Fakhr-un-nissa Begam, 

^ Qazi 'Abd- ul-wahhab, a Bohrah from Gujarat, died at Dihli on the 
iSth Ramazan, 1086 H. (December 10, 1675) (‘ Ma,asir-i-‘Alamgiri,’ 148, and 
* Tari^-i-Muhammadi,’ year 1086; see also I, 277). 



190 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

the daughter of Aurangzeb. This lady, although not desirous 
of marriage, had no intention of being deprived of her satisfac- 
tion. Therefore she asked her aunt to make over to her at 
least one out of the nine. Roshan Ara Begam declined the 
request in spite of her niece’s importunity. Moved by envy, 
the young girl revealed to her father what there was hidden in 
the apartments of Roshan Ara Begam. By diligent search they 
caught the young men, who were well clothed and good- 
looking. They were made over to the criminal authorities, 
being announced to the world as thieves; and following the 
orders he had received, the kotwdl, Sidl Fulad, destroyed them 
in less than a month by various secret tortures [146]. Already 
angered at the misconduct of his sister, Aurangzeb shortened 
her life by poison. Thus, in spite of all she had done to get 
her brother made king, she experienced herself his cruelty, 
dying swollen out like a hogshead, and leaving behind her the 
name of great lasciviousness.^ 

The King of Kashghar. 

There arrived in Hindustan in this year a king of Tartary, 
who came in person to sue for help from the greatness of 
Aurangzeb. This was the King of Kashghar,^ a very old man 
with a few hairs of a beard, such as have the greater number 
of Chinese, a man of fair complexion. He had been obliged to 
flee from his country owing to the rebellion of his son, who 
had usurped his throne. At his reception Aurangzeb made a 
display of his grandeur, and sent out Ja‘far !|^an (of whom we 

^ Roshan Rae Begam, daughter of Shshjahan, died the 17th Jamadfi I., 
1082 H. (September 21, 1671, N.S.), at Aibarabad, aged fifty-six (‘Taim-i- 
Muhammadi.’ year 1082). 

® In the tenth year, 1078 H, (1667-68), it was reported that ‘Abdullah Rlian , 
ruler of Kashgar, had fied, and was about to enter Kashmir. On the 
8th Shawwal of the eleventh year, 1078 H. (April 2, 1668), he arrived near Dihli, 
and was received on the nth. Jamdat-ul-Mulk Ja‘far Khan, and Asad ^an, 
were sent out to meet him. He left for Arabia after eight months, and was 
escorted to Surat by Hakim Ibrahim (*Ma,asir-i-*Alamgiri,’ 63, 71, 83). The 
name of his rebellious son is variously spelt: Bulbaras THian (‘ M.-i-‘A.,’ 63), 
Balbaras (index), Bubaras (p. 79), Bulbaras (p. 433). This son died in 1112 H. 
(1700-1). 



INFORMAL MEETING OF THE TWO KINGS 


191 

have spoken) along with other noble persons of the court, and 
a number of cavalry to meet and escort him. They attended 
him into the city, and conducted him to the mansion of Rustam 
]^an, Dakhinl. The court was much troubled about the form 
of receiving this king. For Aurangzeb did not wish to break 
Akbar’s rule of not allowing a seat in his presence to anyone 
but his sons. On the other hand, the world would find an 
opening for accusing Aurangzeb of overw’eening pride if he 
gave no seat in his presence to this king. For although 
evil fortune had forced him to quit his territories, he did 
not thereby cease to be of a royal line, into which in other 
times the Mogul kings had married their sons and their 
daughters. 

Aurangzeb, who in certain matters was unwilling that the 
world should feel aggrieved at his acts, was very much per- 
plexed about the way he ought to receive the fugitive king. 
Finally he came to the conclusion to receive him in the mosque, 
where, all being seated, it would be no dishonour for the king 
to have the King of Kashghar seated in his presence. It is the 
custom of Mahomedans on ending their prayers to turn the 
head to the right and to the left, saying twice, ^As-salam 
^alaikum,’ saluting as it were the angels, and giving them 
thanks for the support given to their prayers.^ For they assert 
that everyone [147] has two angels at his side, and thus they 
make the salutation twice. This was another piece of finesse 
on Aurangzeb’s part, who made the salute to the angels serve 
as a polite salutation to the guest; for, turning to say the 
* As-salam ‘alaikum,’ he became aware that the King of Kash- 
gh ar was present in the mosque a little behind him. The 
other responded with the same words, when Aurangzeb turned 
entirely round to him ; the King of Kashghar did the same, 
and thus the conversation began. In this manner the inter- 
view came off without prejudice to either of them. On finishing 
their talk, each retired to his own palace, nor did these two 
kings ever meet save in the mosque. The reason assigned was 
that in God’s house there is neither high nor low, and thus 

^ This is the saldm (see T. P. Hughes, ‘ Dictionary of Islam,’ 468). As to the 
two recording angels, see the same work, p. 15. 



192 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDOSTAN 


they could pay and receive visits there without any derogation 
of their dignity.^ 

A curious thing happened to Aurangzeb. Going through 
the street which goes straight from the mosque to the fort, he 
passed close to a shop where a faglr was seated who had 
formerly been a disciple of the same teacher, Mulla Salih. On 
seeing the king pass, the faqlr discharged at him a potful of 
human excrement, which defiled his throne and his body. At 
the same time the faqlr uttered a cry. Let not the reader be 
amazed at such boldness, for it is quite impossible to set forth 
completely the irreverence of these faqTrs, of whom I have 
already spoken in my First Part (I. 93). They act thus in full 
confidence that no one will dare to ill-treat them ; above all, 
Aurangzeb could not do so, professing himself to be & faqlr. 
The king sat quite still, only ordering them to arrest the/ag’Jy, 
and afterwards he sent for the man to his presence. The king 
asked him why he had so affronted him, and the faqlr replied 
that he did it because he, being now a king, had forgotten his 
co-disciples, and himself fared most sumptuously, while those 
poor wretches suffered in poverty. Aurangzeb answered that 
there was no room for him to complain, it being God’s decree 
that one should be exalted and another left in want; and 
the very same God, if he chose, could reverse the positions. 
Thus the faqir was sent about his business and received 
nothing. 

Aurangzeb made no stint of politenesses and concessions to 
the King of Kashg^ar during his stay in Dihli, and as a spectacle 
sent six [148] elephants to fight before him. This was some- 
thing new for this king, who had never seen elephants nor their 
combats. In order that he might see this sport, he was brought 
to the same palace [as Aurangzeb], but not to the same seat ; 
on the contrary, he was placed at a great distance from it. On 
learning that he wished to proceed to Mecca, Aurangzeb sent 
him some handsome horses, which were killed by this barbarous 

^ The ‘ Ma,Sgir-i-'Alaingiri,’ 72, does not beax this mosque story out completely. 
But the interview began on the bank of the river at nightfall instead of in the 
audience hall, and the two monarchs went thence hand in hand to the mosque 
for prayers. Thus, the interview was carried out in a very unusual maimer, 
though, perhaps, not exactly as Manucci states. 



A PATHIN RISING, 1673 


193 


king and eaten during his journey from Dihll to Surat. This 
act offended Aurangzeb to some extent. 

The King of Kashghar reached Surat, where the governor 
received him with great honour, in compliance with orders from 
court. He was provided with a ship, and then started for 
Mecca. On the voyage a curious thing occurred, by which the 
King of Kashghar was offended. It happened that a European 
let wind, whereupon the king complained to the captain, who was 
also a European, that his pilgrimage had been interfered with. 
This sufficed to make all the crew, whenever they felt troubled 
in the same way, to pass close to the king’s cabin to give him 
a salute. Owing to this trouble, when he returned to Dilhl, 
he lodged a complaint, but no one would listen to his grievance ; 
everyone treated the matter as foolishness, and he lived on in 
Dilhi for some time and died there.^ 


A Pathan rises in Rebellion. 

This was the year in which Shah Shuja' was resuscitated, 
which caused great anxiety to Aurangzeb and threw the 
kingdom into confusion. Many persons believed that the 
fictitious Shah Shuja* was the veritable prince and a true pre- 
tender to the throne. But really he was not such, but only the 
secretary of a general, who, moving to the farther side of the 
Indus river, began to announce that he was Shah ShujaS who 
had fled from Arakan. He was so clever at depicting the 
events of his campaign against Aurangzeb that there soon 
collected many men who had come to help him. To everyone 
who declared himself on his side he gave a rupee, promising 
him high pay. Already he had gathered together some thirty 
thousand soldiers. These crossed the Indus on inflated skins, 
and Aurangzeb ordered his faujdars, who are field commanders, 
forthwith to occupy the river bank and stop their crossing. The 
officials hastened to the spot, and I have heard it said that a 

1 ‘Abdullah ]aan, Changezi, of Cba^atSe race, returned from the Hajaz in 
the fourteenth year, 1082 H. (1671), and died at Dihli on the loth Sha^bSn of the 
eighteenth year, 1086 H. (October 30, 1675) (*Ma,asir-i-*Alamgiri,’ 112, 113, 143, 
and ‘ Tari^-i-Muhammad!/ 1086). 

VOL. II. 



194 OF KING AVRANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDVSTIN 

dog belonging to a general did such wondrous things against 
these rebels [149], and so many died, that they were forced to 
retreat. 

But this did not cause the fictitious Shah Shuja' to lose 
heart. He continued his enlistment of men on the promise 
that when he became king he would give high pay, and would 
reward the valiant. By these promises more and more men 
assembled, until Aurangzeb wrote to Faridun Beg, governor of 
Hasan Abdal, stating his surprise, as it would not require much 
exertion to sweep away this rising. The governor sent some 
fictitious Pathans to give poison to the real Pathan, but false 
■ 9 bq h Shuja‘. Thus was this revolt put an end to, which had 
started from this side of the river. There can be no doubt that 
many were not well contented with Aurangzeb, chiefly the 
Pathans, who must be some three hundred thousand in 
number.^ 


Death of SultSn Muhammad. 

I have already stated earlier that Aurangzeb suspected his 
son, Sultan Muhammad, knowing him to be a brave soldier, 
and therefore he had him carried off a prisoner to the fortress 
of Gwaliyar. But in the end it oppressed him to see his son 
for such a long time in prison. He was also in want of his 
services for several undertakings he was bent upon — ^that is to 
say, the destruction of Shiva Jl, the conquest of Bijapur and 
Gulkandah, and a campaign against the RSnS. He therefore 
sent for him from GwSliyar, and placed him in the fortress of 
Salimgarh. Some liberty was accorded to him, and his father 
took him to the mosque with him. Still he placed no trust in 
him, his object being to test him more and more in order to see 
if prison had weakened him. 

One day he sent him in sign of love a melon, of which he 
(Aurangzeb) had eaten a portion. He wanted to see if Sultan 

^ This ri^g of PaASns, in which ShnjA'at TThan was killed, took place in the 
seventeenth year, 1084 H. (1673-74). Ra'd-andSz ^an, entitled Shuja'at ]aan, 
son of Baha-ud-din, entitled Barq-andaz ]^^n, Sistani, Qandahart, was killed 
on the i8th Zu,l Qa'dah, 1084 H. (Febmary 24. 1674), ® fight with the Afghans 

of Kabul (' Ma,agir-i-‘Alamgiii,’ 131, and ‘ Tarikh-i-Muhammadi,’ 1084}. 



DEATH OF AURA:^;GZEB'S eldest SOS 


195 


Muhammad retained his qualities of a son. They presented 
the melon to him, saying that the king, his father, had already 
tasted thereof and sent him the remainder. He asked for a 
knife. The eunuch who had brought the melon, putting his 
finger on the slice cut by Aurangzeb, said that it was already 
cut ; there was no need of a knife to cut it. Sultan Muhammad 
replied that he would not eat what he had not cut himself. 
The eunuch retorted that knives were not given to prisoners. 
This was enough, and Sultan Muhammad [150], flying into a 
passion, laid hold of the melon and flung it with all his might 
at the eunuch’s head. The man returned to Aurangzeb, and 
gave an account of his reception. Thereupon the king bit his 
lips, and, holding his head down, said : ‘ What a terrible mad- 
ness must that be which, after the medicine of so many years in 
prison and of opium drinking, has not been cured 1 ’ He ordered 
his son to be guarded with great care, and in secret caused 
poison to be administered, to remove from his sight a son who 
had done service to him in the fighting against Dara, and 
who was so obedient to his father’s orders that he seized 
his own grandfather, as may be seen in the First Part of my 
history. 

The day on which the poison was to be given to the prince 
Aurangzeb went out hunting, and in the evening the death of 
his son was reported to him. He pulled up his horse and pre- 
tended to cry ; then he offered up a prayer for the repose of 
his son’s soul, and ordered his interment at the mausoleum 
of Humayun. The next day he went with his court to the 
mausoleum to pray, as is usual. Seeing a white bier cloth upon 
a tomb, he asked who was buried there. On hearing that it 
was Dara’s grave he ordered the cloth to be taken away, and im- 
posed the penalty of death on anyone who should pray there ; 
his object was to wipe out the remembrance of Dara. Thus 
ended the name of Sultan Muhammad in the year one thousand 
six hundred and seventy-one.^ 

> According to the 'T3ji^-i-Mu!^tmmadi,' 1087 H. (1676), and to the ‘ Ma,3sir- 
i-‘Alamgiri,’ p. 159, 1088 H. (1677). is the correct year. The former authority 
states that he died on the i8th ShawwSl, 1087 H, (December 25, 1676), aged 
thirty- eight years one month and four days. 

13—2 



196 OF KING A URANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


What I encountered from Muhammad AmIn Ksan. 

This was the year in which Muhammad Amift gave me 
a lot of annoyance, for, having been ordered by the king to 
KabuP as governor in place of Mahabat !&an, he wanted to 
take me with him by force. He made me many promises, but 
I knew my man too well. He had promised me ten rupees a day 
for healing a putrid venereal disease, of recovery from which 
he had despaired; afterwards, ignoring what he had said, he 
refused to pay me the promised sum. I therefore my 

excuses, saying I did not wish to leave ULhor. 

He left -with his retinue, and finding that neither by promises 
nor by threats could I be made to follow him [151], he ordered 
me to be carried off by force. Thus I travelled with him for 
three days as far as Little Gujarat,® crossing the river of Labor 
and the river Chinab. He acted thus not only from his desire 
to keep me, but also because his wife so willed it. She went 
the length of unveiling before me her daughter’s face (a most 
unusual thing among them), and said to me that, if I would 
not go for her sake, at the least I might for her daughter’s, 
whom I had brought back to health when she was very ill. I 
had come thus far, but never forsook the project I intended to 
carry out ; for he who serves by compulsion can never be 
satisfied. Thus, the marches being at night on account of the 
heat, I turned back, without saying a word to anyone except 
an Englishman, whom I told I was going to the town of Little 
Gujarat to buy some medicines, and if Muhammad Amin TTha n 
should ask him about me, he was to give that answer. 

That nobleman had given an order that no one was to be 
allowed to cross to the other side of the river, permitting 
nothing to remain on our side except the ferry-boat for con- 
veying the couriers to and from the court ; but I so took my 
measures that this boat was forced to carry me across, for as I 
approached I sent my servants to take possession of the boat 

1 Muhammad Amin m§n was appointed to Kabul in the thirteenth year, 
108081 H. (1670-71) (■Ma,aOT-ul-Uinara,’ iii. 616, and ‘Ma,asir-i.‘jUamgiri,’ 
104). 

® GujaiSt, in the Panjab, eight miles from the banks of the Chinab. Near 
here was fought Sir Hugh Gough's battle of February 21, 



MANUCCI FALSELY ACCUSED OF THEFT 


197 


and keep it till I arrived. I came up and ordered the boatman 
to convey me across, pretending I was a courier from Mahabat 
Khan to the court. As soon as I had passed the river it began 
to be dawn, and I met a body of Muhammad Amin Hian’s 
people. When they asked me where I was going, I answered 
angrily that Mirza ‘Abdullah^ being unwell, the prince had 
sent me to treat him. Thus I got past them. I reached Labor 
by fast travelling before he could overtake me on the way. 

But Muhammad Amin l^an planned a piece of treachery^ for 
my destruction. This consisted in writing to Gitar, commander 
of the fort and provisional governor, to his own agent (? wakiT), 
to the hotwaly and to the qazl^ requiring them to forward me to 
his camp. If I refused, they were to charge me with having 
stolen from him five lakhs of rupees. They knew quite well it 
was a false accusation, but Muhammad Amin Khan being a great 
man, they did not hesitate to do everything possible to have 
me seized. But I was not asleep, and I was tolerably versed in 
Mahomedan tricks, for they stick at nothing to gain success in 
their desires [152]. Therefore I did not stay inside Labor at my 
house, but hid myself in the gardens, moving about from one 
place to another in disguise. This went on for forty days, and 
proclamation was made that anyone knowing where I was hid 
and discovering me, would be highly rewarded, and whoever 
concealed me in his house would be compelled to pay the five 
lakhs of rupees robbed by me from Muhammad Amin ]^an. 

At this time Fida,e Eban, who was to succeed Muhammad 
Amin S^an as governor,^ was approaching. He was his pre- 
decessor’s enemy. In advance of his own arrival he sent two 
hundred cavalry, conveying letters to the provisional governor, 
the kotwal, and the qaz% telling them to carry on the government 
in his name until he should arrive. At each court of justice was 
posted one of Fida,e Eban’s troopers to act as witness and verify 
everything that took place. When I knew of this, I came boldly 
into Labor, and had an interview with the trooper who attended 

^ Mirza 'Abdullah, the son of Muhammad Amin TThan . He was killed on the 
Peshawar frontier, 3rd Muharram, io83’ (April 30, 1672), 

2 Fida.e KhSn was appointed to Labor in the thirteenth year, 1080-81 H. 
(January 23, 1670, to January ii, 1671) (* Ma,j^ir-ul-Umara,’ i. 250). 



198 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDVSTIN 

the kopwal’s court, also with the man posted at the deputy- 
governor’s, telling them my story. Both men pledged me their 
word that they would help me, but I told them not to take 
action until they saw me being taken away by force to Muhammad 
Amin Khan. Secure of their aid if anything happened to me, 

I returned to my house. The kotwdl and the other officials 
were in fear of Muhammad Amin !^an, so the kotwdl sent for 
me and locked me up in prison, and three times, on three 
different days, he asked me in public audience whether I would 
go willingly to Muhammad Amin !|^an or not. On my saying 
resolutely that I would not go, he said that as Muhammad 
Amin Kban had accounts to go into with me, I must be forced 
to go. My reply was that I had no sort of account with him, 
nor knew I aught about his jewels, for I was no official of his 
household, but only a Frank surgeon, to whom jewels would 
not be made over. Seeing me thus firm, he too spoke resolutely, 
at the instigation of Muhammad Amin iOian’s wakll, declaring 
that I must absolutely go. 

They had already removed me firom the audience, and were 
making me mount into a carriage prepared for that purpose, 
when the trooper, whom I had already made my fidend, 
announced openly that if they wished to send me, they might ; 
but hereafter Fida,e l^an would have something to say to them, 
he having given special instructions for ^akIm Niccolao, the 
Frank, to be looked after, he being his (Fida,e ^Sn’s) private 
doctor. He called on everyone to bear witness how he had made 
requisition on his master’s behalf. Upon hearing [153] this, the 
kotwdl got into a fright and sent for me once more, and said to 
me in a loud voice that the trooper had made a requisition on 
behalf of Fida,e Sian ; but the law demanded that at the very 
least I should produce bail for my person, so as to be able 
afterwards to justify itself against a claim by Mu^mmad Amin 
]^an. 

Sureties were not wanting who, knowing the truth, were 
willing to bind themselves for me. But neither the kotwdl nor 
the wakU would accept them as bail, warning them that in this 
way they would have to defend themselves fi'om Muhammad 
Amin !^an, a violent and powerful man. Thus it came to pass 



HE IS PROTECTED BY FIDA,E KHIX 


199 


that all of them were afraid to do what they wished, until at last 
a Hindu turned up, who, in defiance of Muhammad Amin Khan, 
became surety, I giving him an indemnity, and thus I was 
free. 

Meamvhile Mirza Salih,^ the son of Fida,e Ehan, arrived. 
I visited him and paid my respects, having beforehand had 
some good words said to him about me ; for I was tolerably 
well known in Labor. In this way, when Fida,e Khan himself 
subsequently arrived, he (Mirza Salih) presented me to his 
father, by whom I was well received. I presented to him a 
box full of an electuary He sent for the kotwal, and told him 
to take good care that no one interfered with me, and he also 
gave me his w^ord to be favourable to me. This, of a truth, he 
was as long as he lived, and that, too, in things of great im- 
portance, as I shall relate in the proper place (II. 162). 

Muhammad Amin Khan defeated by the Pathans. 

But let us proceed and see what happened to Muhammad 
Amin Ebian with the Pathans. It looks as if God had inspired 
me with this resolve not to go with him in order to save my 
life. When he reached the territories of Kabul, puffed up with 
pride as he was, he tried to interfere with the Pathans, and 
was not content to do as other viceroys had done. They had 
managed to keep friends with these most warlike folk. But he, 
as soon as he arrived, sent word to the Pathans that he required 
them to pay tribute ; otherwise he would make war, and oblige 
them to do by force what they declined to do from affection. 

This was enough to give the Pathans an opportunity of 
destroying him. Taking no notice [154] of the affront, they 
allowed Muhammad Amin KhSn with forty thousand horse, in 
addition to infantry numbering two hundred thousand and his 
baggage, to enter into the mountains near Pexor (Peshawar). 

J Fid§,e Khan, afterwards A*zam Khan, Kokah, died on the gth Rabi* II., 1089 H. 
(May 31, 1678). He was the elder brother of Bahadur Khan, afterwards Khan 
Jahan, Kokalta^. Fida,e Khan’s eldest son was SAlih Khan, afterwards Fida,e 
Khan (‘ Ma,asir-ul-Umara/ i. 247, 251). 

* The text has detvano, which Mr. D. Ferguson emends to efe^vaWc=electuario 
=* electuary,* and this I adopt. 



200 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

When the imperialists had advanced into the hills, the PathSns 
blocked the routes. One morning, while it was still dark, all 
the Pathans came, marching on foot, and having manned the 
tops of the surrounding hills, they began to shout as with one 
voice, so frightening the men of Muhammad Amin l^Sn that 
they were like a pinha (a pine-tree — i.e., they trembled ?). Then 
the hillmen descended on the Moguls with a great rush, their 
bare swords in their hands. 

Muhammad Amin S^an issued forth, and finding himself in 
the last extremity, he sent an embassy to the Pathans through 
a holy man of Balkh. He said he would pay them a great deal 
of money and comply with their wishes. But the enraged 
Pathans would not hear a word, and, cutting off the holy man’s 
head, fell upon Muhammad Amin Sian’s soldiers, sparing not 
a single one. Muhammad Amin SSn had recourse to a device 
to save his own life. That is to say, he ordered his secretary, 
Muhammad Rial, to take the seat on his elephant, and thus he 
was destroyed, the Pathans supposing that it was Muhammad 
Amin SSn himself. They contented themselves with cutting off 
this man’s head and carrying it into the mountains. Muhammad 
Amin l&an, with the aid of some PathSns in his service, clothed 
himself in their manner, and these men conducted him until he 
had got out of the hills and arrived at Peshawar. When they 
reached the city it was night, and the commandant would not 
open the gate, fearing some treachery. N evertheless, through the 
urgent petitions forwarded to him by Muhammad Amin l&an, 
the commandant sent men to examine well by torch-light the 
marks on his face, so as to see if it were really Muhammad 
Amin He had to suffer this affront in order to save his 

life. But how did the Pathans deal with the wealth and the 
family of Muhammad Amin ^an ? 

All were made prisoners, except Mirza ‘Abdullah,^ son of Mu- 
hammad Amin Qian, who on seeing the enemy make a prisoner 
of his father’s wife, the one who showed me her daughter’s face 
thereby to overcome me, cut off her head himself. After this 

^ Saiyid Sultan, Karbalae, and MirzS, ^Abdullah, were killed in the TThai bar 
Pass in a fight with the A fgkS ns on the 7th Mubarram, 1083 H. (May 6, 1672) 
(* Tari^-i-Mubammadi, ’ 1083; see also ' Ma,asir-ul-Umara,' iii. 617). 



PATHANS DEFEAT MUHAMMAD AMiX KBaX 


201 


the Pathans killed him (‘Abdullah) along with Mirza Sultan, 
brother-in-law of Muhammad Amin Khan, a well-made man of 
grave demeanour, a Persian by birth. They took prisoners the 
mother, the sister, and the daughter of the fugitive. The last- 
named lady had already been named to Sultan Akbar, the fourth 
son of Aurangzeb, but after this the marriage was not carried 
out [155]. It was thought an indignity for a prince of the blood 
royal to marry one who had been taken and put to ransom by 
so barbarous a people as are the Pathans of those mountains. 
So barbarous were they, that they were not aware of the wealth 
they had acquired by the overthrow of their enemies, and 
gave the gold coins away for nothing, taking them to be of base 
metal. It was on this occasion that a jewel-box was lost con- 
taining all the most lovely jewels and the largest diamonds 
belonging to the widow of Mir Jumlah. She had refused to 
give them to Aurangzeb, who had asked for them, assigning as 
her reason that, being an old woman, the said jewels would serve 
her as torches to lighten her old age. Some say that when 
Mahabat Sian was sent back afterwards to govern Kabul a 
second time, he found means of recovering these valuables, but 
it is not known for certain. 

When the king sent Mahabat San to Kabul again as 
governor, Netu Ji, officer of Shiva Jl, succeeded in escaping ; but 
the attempt did not end as he wished, for he was caught at 
once, and they brought him to Labor, where they put him into a 
cage until the arrival of the royal orders. These orders were that 
if he did not consent to become a Mahomedan his head was to 
be cut off. He pretended to change his religion and recovered 
once more his rank, but was ordered to go across the river Indus. 
After some months had elapsed he disappeared and made for 
the country of Shiva Ji, and fought anew against the Moguls 
in the accustomed way. 

Those who escaped death were afterwards ransomed ; Muham- 
mad Amin, unlocking his treasure-house at Peshawar, ransomed 
his mother, who had been wounded in the side, his sister, and 
his daughter. If anyone wants to know if Muhammad Amin 
Qtan was rich, he can conceive an answer from what was said 
to him by his secretary — that is to say, that without drawing 



202 


OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


pay or income from the king, he could of himself, with the 
rank he had, maintain twelve thousand horsemen for eighty 
years. 

Mahabat Span returns to Kabul. 

Upon the receipt of the above news at court, Aurangzeb 
ordered Mahabat ^^an to go once more in all haste to take 
charge of Kabul nor would he accede to the petition of 
Muhammad Amin l^an, who offered, if not superseded, to 
undertake himself the charges of the war against the Pathans, 
and wreak vengeance for the previous affront. When [156] 
Mahabat Khan came the Pathans allowed him to pass, for he 
was a prudent man, who kept up a friendship with them. 
Thus Muhammad Amin ]^an, on his way to his government 
of Gujarat, passed through Labor, and he then confessed 
before everyone that truth was on my side. Thus did he restore 
to me the honour of which he had robbed me by a false accu- 
sation. 

He went on to his government in Gujarat. After he had 
arrived there, on the day that he had to attend at the mosque, 
he gave an order to the door-keepers not to allow the common 
people to enter during the time of his prayers. For this reason, 
when he came out of the mosque the people rose against him 
with shouts, and stones, and shoes, so that he was obliged to 
hide in a neighbouring house. He wrote about this insult to 
the king, hoping that he would send him troops, or would give 
him an order to chastise the people. But Aurangzeb replied 
that it was God’s punishment for his hauteur; he was astonished 
at his promptness in complaining, whereas it would be better to 
amend his own ways, and not be so high and mighty. From 
vexation he ended his life in a little time.® 

1 MahSbat gMUi was recalled from the Dalchin, and sent to KS.bul in the 
sixteenth year (December, 1672, to December, 1673) (' Ma,§§ir-ul-UmaT3,' iii.593). 
In refosing Mnl^mad Amfin ]^ln’s offer, Aurangzeb acted on the advice of 
Amir Khan , who said be would act libe a wounded boar and attack regardless 
of all consequences {ibid., iii. 619). Amir ^gn had served under Muhammad 
Amin ifbaTi iu Kabul {ibid., i. 278). 

2 Muhammad Amin Kh S n died at AhmadSbad on the 8th Jamadi 11 ., 1093 H. 
(June 4, 1683) (‘ M.-nl-U.,’ iii, 619). 



MAHRATTAH AFFAIRS 


203 


Aurangzeb makes Peace with Shiva Ji. 

Although Aurangzeb was anxious to obtain satisfaction from 
the Pathans for this outbreak, he found he could not punish 
them, being involved in war with Shiva JT and Bijapur. He 
therefore sent Fida,e S^an to Peshawar to try and smooth 
things over ; but, discovering that he (Fida,e E^an) was not of 
that opinion, he sent his artillery general, Ra'dandaz ^an, 
a valiant man, with a large army to overawe them. But when 
he got among the mountains the Pathans cut off his head and 
destroyed his army as they had done to that of Muhammad 
Amin ]^an.^ This was the opening of a new war. Since the 
Pathans were strong, there was no army sufficient to reduce 
the fury of these men, who once claimed the crown of Hindustan 
and the lordship over Dihli. Ever since they lost King Sher Shah 
they had refused to bind on turbans, wearing in their place a 
fragment of cloth. This custom is, they say, to endure until there 
is a Pathan king. Thus was Aurangzeb obliged to obtain peace 
from Shiva Jl, who was content to give him the time he wanted 
to fight the Pathans. Aurangzeb took the field against them 
with a firm determination to extirpate them, believing it would 
be easy [157] to accomplish this purpose, just as he had suc- 
ceeded in his previous undertakings. Thus he withdrew con- 
siderable forces from that quarter (the Dakhin), leaving Bahadur 
Ehan to continue the war with Bijapur. 

Shiva Ji enters the Karnatik to make War. 

Shiva Jl had no idea of allowing his soldiers’ swords to rust. He 
therefore asked the King of Gulkandah to grant him a passage on 
his way to a campaign in the Karnatik^ against certain princes 
who had risen against Bijapur and Gulkandah. The King of 
Gulkandah having consented to his passing through, he came 
to the Karnatik, and there, by his valour and determination, he 

^ Ra‘dand§2 TTha n (Shuj3.'at Khan) was dispatched on the 7th Sha*b§n, sixteenth 
year, 1084 H. (November 17, 1673). He was killed on the i8th Zu,l Qa'dah, 
1084 H. (February 24, 1674) (* Ma,asir-i-*Alamgiri,’ 129, 131). 

^ Grant-Duff, 123. Shiva Ji was at Gulkandah early in 1677 ; at Jinji in May 
of that year ; the investment and capture of Vellur followed. Three other forts 
were taken. 



204 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

took a great fortress called Gingi (Jinji).^ It includes seven 
fortifications upon hills. There are many princes in the KarnStik, 
but they would not agree to a joint defence; then he, like a 
dexterous falcon, pounced upon them, and took many other 
fortresses of great value, and lands containing many subjects of 
the Bljapflr kingdom. By these victories he increased his 
strength, and subsequently was able to resist the armies of 
Aurangzeb. But in the course of these victories he met with one 
cause of vexation, for his son, Sambagi (SambhS Jl), was a 
of unruly habits, who seized other men’s wives. This gave rise 
to complaints from the officers and others ; and their dis- 
satisfaction was likely to be the cause of great injury to ShivS 
jr, if thereby any revolt were occasioned. Finding that 
SambhS. Ji would not listen to his words, his father decided 
to have him seized and sent as a prisoner to some fortress. 
He intended then to leave the crown to his younger son, called 
Ram RSja, in these days known under the designation of 
Shivt JI. But Sambhi, JI became aware of his father’s inten- 
tions, and knowing that the king (? Aurangzeb) would be 
delighted to have him wthin his territories, he made an appeal 
to him, and was received most amicably.® 

Aurangzeb marches against the Pajhans. 

Aurangzeb took the field against the PathSns, riding his 
horse in the sun, with lance in hand, and taking no shelter 
firom heat or dust. He did this to prove his determination 
to destroy them. He refused to listen to the petitions of his 
officers. They had practical knowledge of the fierceness and 
persistence of the Pathans [158], and of the strength of the 
positions which they held. They advised him to deal other- 
wise with these people. But he was of opinion that when 
he was present in person ever5^hing was easy, forgetting what 
had happened to the great Akbar, who lost against them eighty 
thousand horsemen. He would listen to no one, but continued 

’ Juyii lat. 13 ° 16', long. 79° 37', eighty-two miles south-west of Madras. 

® Grant-Dn^ 139, has this under the year 1679, but he says Sambhi Ji was 
actually a prisoner of his father at Panalla, and then escaped to the Moguls 
under Diler iHiati 



AURANGZEB GOES TO HA SAX ABDAL 


205 


his onward march. On arriving at Labor, he directed that 
the harem should proceed no farther, taking with him thence 
only a few women. Thus the rest remained in Labor awaiting 
the king’s return, or his permission to advance. The king 
marched on and took up position with his army at 5asan 
Abdal,^ near the river Indus. 

This campaign lasted twenty-six months without the king 
gaining the least advantage over the Pathans. On the 
contrary, he lost some of his most valuable soldiers. Thus 
the son of She^ Mir, a man of valour, was taken by the 
Pathans, and the king had to ransom him.^ Finding 
himself unable to overcome the Pathans, and that he would 
lose thereby much of his honour and reputation, Aurangzeb 
had recourse to other measures. As he suspected that Mahabat 
San was encouraging the Pathan resistance, he sent an order 
for his removal. 

Offended at this supersession, Mahabat San proposed, with 
the help of the Pathans, to rise in revolt and declare himself 
King of Kabul. But he was counselled to the contrary by true 
friends, who reminded him of the loyal conduct of the great 
Mahabat San, his father, who had refrained from killing 
Jahangir when he could have done it if so minded. Mahabat 
San came in anger to the king’s camp, the Pathans allowing 
him to pass without hurt. On arrival in the royal presence, 
Aurangzeb ordered him to proceed to Hindustan ; but on the 
way he had him poisoned. There were two reasons : one was 
because Mahabat San’s enemies said to the king that as he 
was friendly with the Rajputs he might, on reaching Hindustan, 
try to revolt ; the other reason was that, on this occasion, when 
issuing from the royal presence, being in an angry mood, he 
ordered his kettledrums to beat in the midst of the royal 
encampment. This was a great affront to the king; it was 

^ Hasan Abdal, in the RAwal Pindi district, lat. 33° 48', long. 72® 45', in a valley- 
watered by springs. Aurangzeb started for this place on the nth Muharram, 
1085 H. (April 16, 1674), Sind his camp reached it on the 2nd Rabi* II. (June 6, 
1674) (* Ma,§.sir-i-‘Alamgiri,’ 132, 133). 

Other authorities say that this man, the third son, Muhammad Ya'qub, 
Shamsher Kh§.n. lost his life ('M.-ul-U.,' ii. 670). It was in Rabx* I., 1086 H. 
(May or June, 1675). 



2o6 of king AURANGZEB, sixth king of HINDUSTAN 


as much as to say that he did not care in the least for his 
life, and was no longer a subject of Aurangzeb. 

He (Aurangzeb) ordered, as I have said, that poison should 
be given to him secretly; and since he was on his way to 
Labor, they told the king there was in that city a Frank 
ph3rsician who might cure him. For this reason there came 
to me a letter without any name, which stated that in no 
way must I afford aid to Mahabat O^an. He who brought 
me the letter, a man unknown to me, took me by the hand, 
and pressing it, said I* must pay great heed to the letter and 
not act to the contrary, and then off he went. 

Mahabat ^an calls Me in. 

Knowing that Mahabat !^an was on his way, and being 
on very friendly terms, I sent out to him a present of some 
good spirits that I had prepared myself. His doctor, who had 
the order to give him the poison, seized the opportunity for 
my ruin and his own preservation. On the day that the 
Nawab drank my wine, he gave him the poison in an elixir 
such as the Mahomedans are accustomed to take to reinforce 
their sexual powers. Mahabat Ehan found himself troubled 
with sharp pains, and suspected that there must be poison 
in my spirits, and that I had acted thus at the instigation of 
Fida,e Khan, his enemy. He sent to fetch me in the greatest 
haste, just as I was ready to go out for a stroll. At once I 
suspected something. I jumped on my horse and went off 
to him, he being eighteen leagues away. 

Entering the tent, I found everyone in astonishment, for they 
had the idea that I would never come, being, as they asserted, 
the culprit. He ordered a tent to be prepared for me and a 
good supper, sending to entertain me several of his nephews, 
great friends of mine ; also a captain called Mirak ‘Ata-ullah. 
This man was to spy upon me, and see if I spoke with any 
sign of fear or surprise. But as I was quite innocent, I spoke 
in my usual manner. Next morning I went to see Mahabat 
i^an again, and I asked him if he had tasted the spirits that I 
had sent, and he said he had. Thereupon I prayed the favour 



DEATH OF MAHABAT ( 11 ), 1675 


207 


of his giving me a drink of it. They brought me the bottle 
from which he had drunk. I drank, and after I had done so I 
gave some to his nephews, who praised the liquor. I did this 
to let him be satisfied that it was not my liquor that had made 
him bad, but some other thing. I remained with him in talk 
a long time, and he observed that the spirits did neither me 
nor his nephews any harm. He then invited me to treat 
him. 

1 made excuse, saying that he was provided with his own 
doctor, a very wise man, and that I was not acquainted with 
that disease. Thus I remained with him nineteen days, and 
he detained me to find out if the spirits we drank did any harm 
[160] either to me or to his nephews. He was obliged to let 
me go without being able to find out from me whether he had 
poison in his inside or not. At my departure he conferred on 
me a set of robes, and sent the same captain with twenty 
horsemen to escort me, so that his men, who thought me the 
cause of his illness, should not harm me. He died a few days 
afterwards of fetid discharges, a sign that his bowels were 
ulcerated.^ 

I ATTEND THE DAUGHTER OF MURAD BAIOTSH. 

Hardly had I reached Labor when a terrible affair happened. 
This was that the holy man of Bal^,^ to whom Aurangzeb 
had married the daughter of Murad Ba^sh, went mad. I 
was treating him as such. But Fida,e Ehan,® being away at 
Peshawar, Amanat !|^an^ was in his place. He listened to the 

^ LahrSLsp, entitled (i) Lahrasp Khan, then (2) Mababat Kban. son of Zamanah 
Beg, Mababat Khan j TTha n KbSnan, Sipab Salar, died the 4tb Sbawwal, 1085 H. 
(January i, 1675), near Sabodrah (PanjAb), aged sixty-four (lunar) years. His 
father died 1044 H. (‘ Tariyi-i-Mubanimadi/ 1085). 

2 See back, II. 149, Muhammad Salih, son of Muhammad Tahir, NaqsbbandL 

* Fida,e KhS-n started from Labor for Peshawar on the last of Muharram, 

fifteenth year, 10S3 H. (May 28, 1672). 

^ Amanat Khan (alias Saiyid Ahmad E!h§.n) was in the thirteenth year, 1081 H., 
diwan of Bengal; in the sixteenth year, 1083 H., dlwan of the KhMi^h; in the 
eighteenth year, 1086 H., he resigned that office, and was put in charge of LShor ; 
in the nineteenth year, 1086 H., he came out to greet Aurangzeb on his return 
from Hasan Abdfil (*M.-i-‘A./ 105, 126, 143, 148). See also Part I., f. 103, 
and V., f. 26, 



208 OF KING AURANGZEB. SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


proposals of the sorcerers, who said that the holy man was 
possessed by a demon, and not mad. I was obliged to abandon 
the treatment, AmSnat San being aggrieved that I had taken 
on myself to treat a ro3ral connection without first of all con- 
sulting him. My answer was that, being by profession a medical 
man, I went to the house of anyone who sent for me without 
maHng any distinctions. But since he did not approve of my 
continuing my treatment, I would that very hour quit the 
house and the patient. 

It happened that a few days afterwards, the sorcerers 
assuring him that the man was now sane, and had no longer 
a demon in his inside, they allowed him to go for a walk in 
a garden along with the princess and her ladies. Having a 
dagger in his waist-belt, he drew it, and, seizing the princess, 
stabbed her beneath the ribs towards the side. When the 
ladies and the eunuchs, on hearing her cries, ran to the spot, 
he killed one woman with the same dagger and wounded 
another in the arm. After this he jumped into the reservoir, 
playing {bailando) with the dagger and other obscenities. Then 
they carried away the princess in a palanquin as speedily as 
possible to the palace, and a eunuch .came careering on horse- 
back to my house. I was urged to make all haste ; I knew not 
why or wherefore. I sent an order to harness my carriage for • 
us both to go together. But I could not extract from his 
mouth where it was necessary to go, until at last he told me to 
carry with me remedies for the [i 6 i] treatment of a wound 
that the holy man had inflicted on the princess. I protested 
that I could not go without permission from the governor, 
because the princess was of ro5ral blood, nor could I treat 
her without the king’s orders. He paid no heed to those 
words, and most urgently intreated me not to delay, for the 
princess was in danger of death. He then told me the whole 
story. 

We started in the carriage, and he made out I was drunk, 
ordering the carriage to be driven with all speed, stopping for 
neither hucksters’ stalls nor people. Everybody was amazed to 
see a Frank, who usually went by rather quietly, rush past so 
desperately. We reached the palace, and on being told the 



THE PRISCESS RECOVERS 


209 


facts as to the wound, I feared a lesion of the bowels. How- 
ever, continuing my inquiries, I found that the wounds were 
not mortal. I did my utmost to get an examination before I 
began the treatment. But the Mahomedans are very touchy 
in the matter of allowing their women to be seen, or even 
touched by the hand ; above all, the lady being of the blood 
roj-al, it could not be done without express permission from 
the king. Thus an examination was impossible. But I ordered 
them to describe the wound, and I had the dagger brought, 
and I saw that it was only by God’s grace that it had not cut 
the bowels. I made my tents and plasters, mixing in them a 
balsam which I made, and since the persons in the service of 
these great people are intelligent, I instructed them as to what 
they had to do. By God’s help the treatment succeeded, and 
in eleven days I healed her completely. 

When for the first time I had applied the medicine, I went 
to the governor and reported the facts. This was to prevent 
his expressing surprise afterwards on hearing such news, and 
becoming firightened that the king would remark on the want of 
care with which he had guarded a man who had been declared 
mad. He entreated me earnestly to make my best efforts to 
cure the princess. Meanwhile he wrote to the king about the 
case, and told him that a demon had entered the body of the 
holy man, and the princess had been mortally wounded with 
a dagger. But a Frank doctor named Hakim Niccolao had 
attended her, and held out hopes that she would be well in a 
short time. This event brought me to the notice of many 
nobles who were in the camp. For on the matter becoming 
public, my friends wrote to their acquaintances; and the 
princess herself, as soon as she was well, wrote to the king 
that I had perfectly restored her, and she gave me a handsome 
present. 


Corpulence of a Mahomedan. 

Another case occurred which made me famous throughout 
the kingdom. It was as follows: Fida,e Khan ordered the 
beheadal of a powerful rebel, who plundered in all directions in 
the king’s territories; he was brother-in-law of the qa?~i of 
VOL. II. 14 



210 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


Labor. His name was Theka Araham (? Thika, Arain)/ and 
he was extremely fat. I thought it was a good chance of lay- 
ing in a stock of human fat, procuring it from the man and his 
companion, who was also verj' obese. I spoke to Fida,e ^an, 
pointing out the necessity I was under of having this medica- 
ment As the opportunity was favourable, would he give orders 
to remove the fat from these two condemned men ? He then 
ordered the hotwai to have this done, and in compliance with the 
order men were sent to carry out the operation. I thus acquired 
eighteen sirs — ^that is, five hundred and four ounces purified.^ 

T his matter caused great talk in the city, and the qOzl, 
assembling many of the learned, sent men to complain to the 
king against Fida,e San for protecting a Frank. On his 
behalf he had committed the sacrilege of removing the fat of a 
Mahomedan, a man who read the Quran and yet had been 
thus afflicted. According to the strict law the Frank deserved 
to be burnt, but as FidS,e San declined to listen to argument, 
they were forced to come to His Majesty to present a complaint 
and demand justice. 

1 was warned of the plot, and spoke to Fida,e San about 
the qSpi’s intentions. He sent at once a messenger to court to 
report that the population of Labor were restless, and if there 
came in any complaint about the beheaded man, Thika, Arain, 
it must not be listened to, for the qa^ and others had been his 
supporters. This was enough to secure that on the arrival of 
the complaint at court, where many had clad themselves in 
mourning to present the petition, the king should send them 
away after saying very little, with the remark : ‘ Caziey zemi, 
bessare zemi’ {QazSya-i-zanfln bar-sar-i-zamln). This means: 
‘ Cases about land are settled on the land itself.’ Thus I was 
left unharmed for that once and freed from a great persecution 
that would have cost me my life. 

^ Ibbetson, ‘ Panjab Ethnology,’ 1883, p. 267, paragraph 486, Arains, or Rains, 
a class of vegetable growers. * They are almost without exception Mussulmans.’ 
They are numerous in the Labor district. N. M. mentions this man again 
(iii. 73), where he says he was a Jat. So the name may be Thika Ram instead of 
Afttin; but in that case he would be a Hindu, and not a Mahomedan. 

2 Taking the ser at 2 pounds, or 32 ounces, 18 would be 576 ounces. But the 

ur referred tc may have been a local one of 28 ounces. 



USE OF HUMAS FAT AND FLESH 211 

God was also pleased to deliver me once more after several 
months. For [163] there came a relation of the beheaded man 
expressly to kill me. By a lucky chance he came when I was 
prescribing for the sick, distributing medicine, adding alms for 
those who were in want. He came into my diwan with his 
sword and shield, leaving his spear and horse at my door. 
Without any salutation he sat down in front of me and watched 
my movements, the humanitj’’ with which I spoke to the sick, 
and the liberality with which I succoured the needy. Nor did 
I fail from time to time to observe the face of this new guest, 
without knowing either who he was or what he wanted. I 
wondered at his wrathful countenance, his head-shakings, and 
other signs of a man in anger. Having got rid of my patients, 
I asked him more than once if he wanted anything in which 
I could be of use, but he returned no answer. At length, 
there being no one else left, he asked me if I knew the cause 
of his coming. I replied that I did not. He said he had come 
resolved to kill me because I had removed the fat from his uncle. 
But finding that in my hands it was being well employed, he 
felt satisfied at making my acquaintance. He rose to his feet, 
refusing to eat, or take betel, or listen to my words. He could 
have killed me quite safely, but God was pleased to change his 
intentions in reward for the little or much that I managed to 
do for the poor who were in ill-health. 

The qdzi did not find it so easy to forget his anger against 
me. Fida,e i^an did not stay much longer in Labor. He 
(the qazT) then sent someone for me, and on my presenting myself 
he was very affectionate, but did all he knew to trip me up in 
my talk. He began a conversation about the fat of his brother- 
in-law, asking me if I ever gave such fat to be taken for a 
medicine, and for what complaints it was used. I answered, in 
ignorance of his maliciousness, that fat was not administered 
by the mouth, but served simply to make ointments in nervous 
disorders. It was lucky that I answered thus, for if I had said 
that the fat was also given by the mouth, it would have been 
enough to afford him an opening for planning a fresh persecution 
against me, and ordering me to be tortured. 

It appeared to him most barbarous to prescribe human fat 

14—2 



212 OF KING ACRANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

to be taken, imagining I did [164] this to make mock of the 
Mahomedans by getting one man to eat the fat of another. 
After this, I fell into conversation with him and discovered his 
malice, and saw the kindness God had done me in making me 
reply as above. For it was this which had delivered me from 
death. But he who came to catch me got caught himself! 
On his demanding of me some remedy for a cough he had, I 
told him of various drugs ; among other things I said that, 
as he was an old man, human ‘ myrrh ’ would be good. He 
answered that he had already taken it, but it had done him not 
the least good. Upon this, with a smile, I said openly to him 
that to me it did not seem much of a thing to give human fat 
through the mouth by way of medicine, when at the same time 
he had no scruple in eating human flesh and fat. For that is 
what is meant by human ‘ m3n:rh.’ He also could not help 
laughing, and told me such medicines were to be taken secretly 
only, so that no one knew. 

The Europeans persecute Me. 

This persecution was bad enough, but without a doubt the 
Christians persecuted me worse than the Mahomedans. It arose 
from their envy at seeing me with name and fame, whereas at the 
place where I had settled down I had done no harm to any one 
of them. God alone knows how many times they tried to 
murder me, and they sent men to steal my books, on which 
I relied. Finding their projects had no success, they made up 
their minds to do openly what they had failed to do in hiding. 

To this end they sent four Europeans of various nations to 
murder me. Two came into the house as friends and began to 
talk to me ; another who was to do the deed stood in the door- 
way, shouting hoarsely a thousand abusive terms at my servants ; 
and the last sat on his horse with his pistols ready, to back up 
what was going on at the door. Hearing this row I came out, 
begging the disturber to hold his tongue ; he might come in if 
he wanted to, but if he did not come in let him go his way. When 
he heard this he fired his pistol, which was already at fuU-cock, 
when one of my servants, grappling with him, took the pistol 
fi:om his hand. He drew his sword to defend himself from the 



ATTEMPT TO MURDER MASUCCI 


213 


servants, who had begun settling his business for him with thick 
sticks, applying them without remorse to him and his servants 
until they fled. Then I recognised that it was planned treachery, 
and ordered one [165] of my serv’ants with a drawn bow to see 
that the one on horseback should not move his hand in the 
direction of his pistols ; if he moved, an arrow was at once to 
be let fly at him. Thus terrorised, he was afraid to stir or to 
assist his companion, who was getting his beating. I told the 
others with their bows and arrows to watch without a word 
over the two men in the house. Meanw^hile I ordered a good 
thrashing to be given to the insolent fellow. While drawing 
his sword to defend himself from the servants he cut his hand, 
and one of my servants seized him round the body so violently 
that he was brought to the ground. But he would not let his 
sword be taken away ; I therefore ordered them to give it him 
well until he let go the sword. Seeing that still he clung to it, 
one of the men planted one foot on his chest, and so crushed 
it that he had to give up the sword. Thereupon I told them 
to bind him and carry him to the magistrate. But the man on 
horseback dismounted and earnestly begged me not to pass this 
affront upon a white man. His petition was his undoing. I 
told him to fall at his protector’s feet. He declined, but my 
servants by thumps and holding his neck got him to his knees. 

Then I left all the four and rode off at once to Fida,e IS-an, 
who at the time this happened was in Labor. He recognised 
that I had good reason for anything I had done, and sent men 
to escort my assailants to the other side of the river Chinab, 
and on the road he who was the leader died. I will state here 
that my enemies seized this occasion at the time the Europeans of 
the army were on their way to the attack on the Pathans, since, 
being war-time, no one would be able to know afterwards who 
had made the attempt. But God, who seemed to cherish a 
special desire for my protection, would not permit my death at 
the hands of those who had wished to do so on the quiet, by 
entering my house in the guise of friends. They did not succeed 
in this or other treacheries ; but my enemies managed to give 
me poison, from which I escaped, although I felt its effects for 
some years [166]. 



214 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


I FAIL IN MARRYING THE DAUGHTER OF DINDAR KhAN. 

So great was the name that I had of being fortunate with 
the cases that I undertook, that they came from many places 
distant from Labor to call me in to visit patients. This was 
of great profit to me, even to the extent that many wanted me 
in marriage. If I had been of little wisdom, I should have had 
no want of marriage proposals of exceptional quality among 
the Mahomedans. But, thanks to God, although I left my 
home a mere youth, there remained ever graven on my memory 
the good teaching of my parents. 

But I cannot resist telling of one case that happened to me 
vith a well-connected widow woman, the daughter of Dindar 
S^an, Pathan. On one occasion I had treated one of her 
sisters at Qasur,^ twenty leagues from Labor. This lady was 
present, and took such a fancy to me that she wanted to marry 
me. She herself spoke to me about it, and told me she would 
make her own arrangements for flight. At first I paid no heed 
to these things; still, seeing the woman so determined, and 
she being rich, well proportioned, and intelligent, I began 
to entertain the idea of carrying her off to Europe as she 
desired. 

The agreement was that she should give sufficient money to 
buy a big ship, on which would be placed the bulk of her 
wealth- Then she would pretend that she had vowed a 
pilgrimage to Mekka, would obtain permission for this, and 
leave home. When she was on her voyage and had left the 
port of Surat, I with my ship was to fall upon the vessel going 
to Mekka, and carry her off with me to Europe. The agree- 
ment was in process of execution, but she was not sufficiently 
prudent. She roused suspicions of her affection for me by 
forwarding message upon message by an old woman in her 
service. But the special cause for the non -execution of the 
agreement was a Portuguese called Joao Rodrigues de Abreu. 
After having done him many favours, and proved him suffi- 
ciently faithful, I confided our plans to him, intending to take 
him along with me. But he did not act in correspondence to 

^ Qasiir, a PathSn town, south-east of Labor, lat. 31® g', long. 74® 27'. 



MANUCCI AND THE PA THAN WIDOW 


215 


my friendship, for he went off and told MisrI Khan, who was 
a suitor for marriage [167] with the same woman. 

Discovering thus the agreement we had made, and the 
friendship of the said widow, which she had declared by 
sending me messages with valuable presents, Misri Khan, 
through fear of Fida,e S^an and other nobles who were very 
fond of me, was content not to do me any harm, or send men 
to murder me, but only wrote me a letter in which he said that 
he knew quite well why JanI Bibl, the widow’s maidservant, 
came so often to my house; but he saw quite well that 
what I was doing would in the end cost me my life. I 
pretended I did not understand the letter, and replied that 
JanI Blbl came and went as if she were my mother. If it 
displeased him that she came to my house, he had only to tell 
her not to go again. By this means I found out we were 
already discovered. When JanI Bibl came, I asked her to 
inform her mistress that it was no longer safe to come, and she 
must conceal everything, otherwise she would cause my death. 
On finding that her project could not succeed, the widow 
married MisrI [^an, but only lived for eight days after her 
marriage. If I had been like many Europeans in the Mogul 
country and Hindustan, I should have accepted the money 
that she wanted to give me for buying the ship, then taken 
flight for Europe, disregarding the marriage and all my 
promises. I did not act thus, not for fear of discovery, but 
because I had always professed to be an honest man, and thus 
I did not allow myself to fall into this temptation. The only 
thing that weighed upon me was that, through the treachery of 
that Portuguese, the lady continued to be a Mahomedan when 
she desired to become a Christian. 

Daulat, Eunuch. 

The fame I had acquired as a good surgeon and physician was 
the cause, among other things, that I was importuned by the 
eunuch Daulat, a man of staid habits, rich, and well known. 
This eunuch was in the employ of *Ali Mardan Khan, he who 
made over the fortress of Qandahar to the King Shahjahan. 
When his master died in the year one thousand six hundred 



2 i6 of king AURANGZEB, sixth king of HINDDSTiN 


and fifty-two,^ this eunuch of his carried his bones to Persia to be 
buried in the tomb of his forefethers. The fact became known 
to Shah ‘Abbas, at that time King of Persia, who ordered the 
arrest of the eunuch Daulat. ‘Ali Mardan Khan’s remains he 
directed to be burnt, and the eunuch’s nose and ears to be cut 
off. He was then to be expelled from the country. The king 
held it an act of presumption [i68] to bring the bones of a 
traitor into a kingdom, of which in his lifetime he was a declared 
enemy. 

The wretched Daulat retired full of shame to Labor, and 
kept close within his house. Knowing the work I had done, 
he several times requested me by some art or ingenuity to 
make his nostrils and ears grow again — an impossible thing. 
But he imagined that Christians could do miracles with elixirs. 
He therefore besought and entreated me that I would do him 
this favour, and he would give me anything I asked. I answered 
that now there was no remedy, the wounds being old, for if they 
had been fresh something might have been done. This reply 
of mine only inspired greater hopes, and he asked me to renew 
the sores by making new wounds. Then I was to cut off the 
best-shaped nose and the finest ears from one or other of his 
slaves, and apply them to his face. He embraced me, he styled 
me Galen, Bq ‘All (*.«., Avicenna), Aristotle, and Plato; he 
begged me to do him this favour, and make him happy all the 
rest of his life. 

The slaves then present were in a great state of mind lest 
I should accept the eunuch’s proposal, and gazed at me with 
mournful faces, as if entreating me not to comply with the 
request. I was laughing inwardly at them, contrasting the 
eagerness of Daulat with the fright of the slaves. But 
as a final answer I stated that even if I did what he asked, 
and cut off the noses and ears of the slaves, it would be of 
no avail, for being another’s flesh it would never unite, the 
only result being to disfigure his slaves -without any benefit 
to him. Finding there was no remedy, and being a facetious 


ur 3 ^* Qandahar took place in 1637 (Elphinstone, 510). 'Ali 

Nihara, on his way to Lahor, on the 12th Rajah, 
1067 H. (May 7, 1637, N.S.) (‘Tarto-i-Muhammadi ’). 




XVII I. Sultan Sllaiman Shukoh, Son of Dar\ Shukoh. 


Unl // 


To face paae 276. 




MANUCCI AS EXORCIST 


217 


fellow, he said in joke : * I know not what sins I have committed 
to be made an out-and-out eunuch twice over, first in my 
inferior part, and, secondly, in my upper half. Now there is 
nothing more to deprive me of, nor do I fear anything but 
losing my head itself.’ This saying served us often afterwards 
as a subject of conversation. 

Not only was I famed as a doctor, but it was rumoured that 
I possessed the power of expelling demons from the bodies of 
the possessed. This idea spread because I was a man capable 
of conversation, in which I showed my nimbleness of wit whenever 
an occasion presented itself. [169] Once some Mahomedans 
were at my house consulting me about their complaints when 
night came on. I did not want to lose the chance of overawing 
them, and letting them see that I had the power of giving 
orders to the devil. In the middle of our talk I began to speak 
as if to some demon, telling him to hold his tongue and not 
interrupt my talk, and let me serve these gentlemen, for it was 
already late. Then I resumed my conversation with the 
Mahomedans. But they had now only half their souls left in 
their bodies, and spoke in trembling tones. I made use of their 
terror for my own amusement, and raising my voice still more, I 
shouted at him whom I assumed to be present, l3dng invisible 
in some corner. I resumed my talk to the Mahomedans ; and 
this I did four or five times, each time showing myself more 
provoked and fierce. At length I threatened the demon with 
expulsion from the house, and rising to my feet, angrily laid 
hold of a coarse glass bottle in which I had a little spirits of 
wine, and going near the candle, set light to it, and uttered 
a lot of abuse to the supposed unquiet spirit. Then approach- 
ing the window, I made a noise with the bottle like a 
pistol-shot. I returned the bottle to its place, and said to 
the demon that I objected to his coming any more into my 
house. I then turned again to the Mahomedans, and resumed 
the conversation. They were unable to speak a word out of 
fright, and prayed for permission to leave ; they would come 
back another time. But the special joke was that they were 
afraid to go out, dreading that the demon might attack them 
in the street. I reassured them by saying that the demon 



2 i8 of king AURANGZEB, sixth king of HINDUSTAN 


stood in fear of me, and would not do such a thing; for I 
had the means of punishing him. It would suffice, while 
going to their houses, for them to say en route that they came 
from the Doctor Sahib. A grand medicine certainly, and a 
great exorcism for a make-believe phantasm ! 

But this was not enough to induce them to venture out; 
whereby I was forced to send with them one of my servants, 
who as they progressed was to mutter, ‘ DuhtI Hakim Ji ’ — that 
is, ‘On the part of the Doctor Sahib.’ Under these conditions 
I got rid of all those Mahomedans. Being credulous in 
matters of sorcery, they began to bruit abroad in all direc- 
tions that the Frank doctor had the power of expelling demons, 
including dominion over them. This was enough to make 
many come, and among them they brought before me many 
women [170] who pretended to be possessed (as is their habit 
when they want to leave their houses to carry out their tricks, 
and meet with their lovers), and it was hoped that I could 
deal with them. The usual treatment was bullying, tricks, 
emetics, clysters, which caused much amazement, the actual 
cautery, and evil-smelling fumigation with filthy things. Nor 
did I desist until the patients were worn out, and said that 
now the devil had fled. In this manner I restored many to 
their senses, with great increase of reputation, and still greater 
diversion for myself. It may be that some reader will not 
put faith in me, but Europeans who are acquainted with the 
Mogul country, and my character in India, know that I was 
capable of many practical jokes of this sort. What is certain 
is that I very seldom lost my temper, and knew how to divert 
myself in proper time and place with harmless amusements. 

‘IzzAT Kiian, the Viceroy of Sind, dresses Himself as 

A Woman. 

Before we proceed to speak of the retirement of Aurangzeb 
[from the Panjab to Dihll] the reader will be pleased to hear 
of a curious matter which happened in the city of Tattah,^ in 

^ Saiyid ‘Izzat KhSnbaaanlife in the employ of D3f3, In the twenty-third year 
of Shshjah^ (1650) he was made 'Izzat KhShi. and sent as Governor to MultSn. 
In the thirty-first year (1658) he replaced BahAdur irtian as Governor of LAhor ; 



FOOLING THE GOVERNOR OF TATTAH 


219 


the province of Sind, to the governor, or viceroy, called ^Izzat 
Khan, a man I knew very well. This great lord was a great 
lover of women, nor did he content himself with the liberty 
or with the wealth he had, by use of which he could choose 
eveiy^where whomsoever happened to please him. He learnt that 
a certain citizen of Tattah had a beautiful daughter, whereupon 
he set to w'ork to see if he could bring her over to his designs. 
Great were the solicitations by the medium of procuresses; 
and at last the girl revealed to her father the messages sent 
her by Tzzat Khan. The father rejoiced to hear the news, 
seeing in it an opening to avenge himself on Tzzat S^an for 
the harshness with which he treated the inhabitants of Tattah. 

He told his daughter that if the procuress came again she 
was to make a good deal of difficulty, but end by saying that 
the viceroy might come. But he was not to arrive till nine 
o’clock at night, when her father was on the point of retiring 
to rest. He must come w’earing woman’s clothes, for should 
her father appear at the same time he would suppose it to be 
some woman come on a visit. When Tzzat Khan arrived he 
was to be taken into a room, and she was to fasten the door on 
the outside, and tell him that after she [171] had seen that her 
father had gone to bed, she would come back to pass the 
night. The daughter obeyed, and carried out in full her 
father’s instructions. Thus Tzzat S^an passed the night in 
solitude, locked up in the room, and deprived of the hoped-for 
companion. 

Here he remained till it was clear daylight, and the father of 
that clever girl failed not to send word to his friends of what was 
up. Thus the following day, being the day of audience, many 
men assembled on pretext of having business with the governor, 
but really to be witness of his downfall, and to insist that in- 
formation on the subject should be sent to the king. All awaited 

left it with Dara for Multan {1659), but did not go on to Bhakkar. He joined 
Aurangzeb, and was made 3,000, 500 horse; he took part in the battle against 
Shah Shuja*. In the fourth year (1662) he replaced Sanjar Khan as faujdar of 
Bhakkar, and in the tenth year (1667-68) became Governor of Tattah, vice 
Gbazanfar Khan, being raised to 3,500, 2,000 horse (* Ma,asir-ul-Umara,* ii. 475). 
In the twenty-second year, 1090 H. (1678-79), he was sent to Multan as deputy 
of Prince Akbar (‘ M.-i-'A.,* 173). 



220 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDOSTIN 


the Nawab’s coming out to hold audience, or at least the arrival 
of word that he was not to appear. The eunuchs were at a loss 
what to say, and reported him to be ill. But as it was obligatory 
to write to the king that the Nawab was unwell, the public 
reporter and the secret news-writer both demanded an inter- 
view with the doctor and admission to see the viceroy. 

Thus everything was in great confusion, for the medical man, 
ignorant of what had happened, said he had heard no word of 
his master being ill. Some went so far as to say that the 
Nawab was dead, and thus a turmoil arose in the city and 
crowds rushed to the palace. Among them was the venerable 
citizen who held the Naw§.b prisoner in his house. He asked 
why there was all this uproar in the audience hall. They told 
him it was because they did not know what had become of the 
Nawab. Thereupon he replied that he knew quite well where 
he was, and if they wanted to see him they had only to go to 
his house and he would show the Nawab to them. This was 
enough to make everyone follow him, the greater part of them 
already informed of the truth. On reaching his house the citizen 
took from his daughter’s hand the key of the room, and opening 
the door, showed them the Nawab. All were astonished to see 
an old man with a big beard dressed as a woman. Tzzat !]^an, 
out of countenance and ashamed of himself, hid his face and 
went off to the palace in a palanquin. There he shut himself 
up and never appeared, making the excuse that he was ill. 
The officials wrote at once to Aurangzeb about the facts. The 
king ordered ‘Izzat ^Qtan to be removed from his office, to be 
deprived of rank, and sent to court on foot in the charge of 
cavalry [172]. But yielding to the petitions of many friends, 
the king varied his order, and allowed him to come to Labor on 
horseback, where he was to remain for the rest of his life, as 
he did. 

Aurangzeb returns to Dihli from the Campaign against 

THE PatHANS. 

Finding that the death of Mahabat Khan had been of no use 
to him in securing an honourable conclusion of his enterprise 
against the Pathans, Aurangzeb decided to beat an honourable 



A^ZAM KEANES TREACHERY TO THE PATH ASS 


221 


retreat. He arranged with Cassam Can (? Qasim Khan)^ and 
other commanders that they should report in public audience 
that the Pathans had now submitted, and that A‘^m Khan took 
upon himself to stand security for them. In this way he was 
able to satisfy the army, after having lost the flower of his 
soldiery. Thus after two years and two months Aurangzeb 
returned to Dihll.® On this return march he passed near the 
mausoleum of Jahangir, his grandfather, but declined to pray 
at it, saying that it was the burial-place of an infidel. On the 
contrary, he issued orders to remove the precious stones and 
jewels from it, and [stop] the alms which gave him the kingdom. 

While the king was on his return march, A'zam Khan, who 
had taken upon his shoulders the pacification of the Pathans, 
went to visit them, leaving his troops at some distance. He 
interviewed them all, and told them that it was he who had 
persuaded the king to retire and had restored peace. For he 
wanted to live in amity with them, as had been so long the 
case. Muhammad Amin San had been the means of breaking 
the ancient peace, but he pledged his word to them that he 
would maintain their former privileges. The cunning A^zam 
San made himself like one of them, going about among the 
Pathans without sword or shield, totally unarmed. This was 
to show how much he confided in them, and in this way he 
made friends with them, waiting for the opportunity of executing 
his project of destroying their leaders easily and quickly. 

To this intent he decided to have a son circumcised, and, as 
is usual among Mahomedans, he invited the principal com- 
manders among the Pathans, who accepted the invitation but 
announced that they must be allowed to come armed. He 
declared himself satisfied at their coming on that condition. 
His idea was that by this concession he would prove more 
completely the absence of suspicion, letting them come with 

^ Qasim ^an: I can find no man of this name to suit these facts. The 
Governor left behind by Aurangzeb was Fida,e Khan. ‘ Cassam Can * must refer 
to him under his newly given title of A* gam Khfin. but negligently spelt 

® On the nth Shawwal, nineteenth year, 1086 H. (December 29, 1675), he 
started from Hasan Abdal, and halted at Kfila Bfigh. On the 15th Zu.l Qa*dah 
(January 31, 1676) he entered the grove of Fai? Ba^sh at Labor (‘ Ma^ilsird- 
‘Alamgiri,* 148). 



323 OF KING AUSANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDDSTIN 

their spears, arrows, swords, and shields, just as in war-time. 
When they were all seated together, A'zam ^han called for a 
melon, and plunging his knife into it, cut his hand slightly on 
purpose. He asked leave from the company seated to retire 
to have the wound seen to, saying he would be back in a 
moment. He went into a room, and then his soldiers, posted 
in readiness for the attempt, with their matchlocks and arrows 
destroyed the whole of the PathSn leaders, being fifty-two in 
number. Thus he got rid of the Pathan chiefs, so that they 
could not attempt another revolt, and at this result the king 
was highly gratified. Since there could be no further rebellion, 
he sent to supersede him (A‘zam iO^an) Prince Akbar, accom- 
panied by Asad ij^an, chief secretary (grand wazlr) to the king.i 
On their way they distributed robes of honour, and announced 
that the king had recalled A'zam !^an to court to punish him 
for the treachery he had planned and his breach of the con- 
ditions of peace. The PathSns were appeased, but Akbar 
wanted to use the opportunity to rebel against his father and 
make use of the Pathans, if they would join him in the rising. 
But prudent Asad Sian drove this idea out of his head.® 

The Peace with Shiva Ji is broken. 

When Aurangzeb arrived at Dihll® he sent an order to 
BahSdur San to break the peace with Shiva Ji, and make 
continuous war on him. At the same time he was to menace 
the King of Gulkandah for having allowed Shiva Ji, his 

1 On the i2th Rabi* I. of the twenty-second year, 1090 H. (April 23, 1679), 
Prince Akbar was sent off towards Labor; on the 2nd Sha'bSn, 1090 H. 
(September 8, 1679), he arrived from Labor; and on the 7th Sha'ban 
(September 13), at Paiam, he was sent off to Ajmer (‘ Ma,asir-i-*Alamgiri/ 

175. iSo)- 

2 In the twentieth year, 1088 H, (1677), on the recommendation of Prince 
Shah 'Alam, A'zam ^an, Kokah (Fida,e Khan), was replaced at Kabul by 
Amir Khan . He was sent to supersede Shaistah TThan in Bengal. In 1089 H. 
(1678) he is mentioned as the dismissed Governor of Bengal, ien on his way 
to Bahar; he died at phakah on the 12th Rabi* II., 1089 H. (June 3, 1678) 
(‘ M,-i-'A.,’ 157, 159, 168). 

* Aurangzeb reached Dihli cn the 22nd Muharram, nineteenth year, 1087 H. 
(April 5, 1676). Bahadur ^n is Grant-Duff's * Khan Jehan Bahadur,’ his 
newer title (see pp. 121, 122). 



EXACTIONS FROM GULKANDAH AND BijAPUR 223 


enemy, to cross his territories on the way to the Karnatik, 
where he had increased his power by the conquest of fortresses, 
of which we have spoken (II. 156). As a penalty for allowing 
this passage across Gulkandah, much money, munitions of war, 
and jewels, were to be demanded; also, in addition to the above, 
an elephant that the king owned — all of which be agreed 
to. This elephant was not only of great size, but had its tusks 
crooked — that is, not straight like others but bent like buffalo’s 
horns, which, after describing a great circle, ended b}’ meeting 
at the side of its head. So large was the circle made by these 
tusks that in spite of the width of the fort gate at AurangSbad, 
it was still [174] necessary to make the elephant move with the 
greatest care to avoid the comers of the gates. It was from 
this peculiarity that once when moving hastily it caught one 
tusk, which was broken in half, and they were forced to join it 
together with a massive ring. But it was impossible so to 
mend it as to preserve its beauty. 

The manner in which Aurangzeb treated the Kings of 
Gulkandah and Bijapur was full of policy. For he went on 
diminishing their power little by little; to-day asking from 
Gulkandah one thing, to-morrow another; one year some 
money, another year munitions of war. With Bijapur every 
year, when the rainy season came on, he made peace, getting 
them to give him by agreement some fortress, or so much 
money, or so much land, or a province. Finally he asked for 
the king’s daughter in marriage for his son-A’zam TSra, swear- 
ing an oath that after this alliance all wars should cease. 
Then, the rainy season over, he commenced afresh, until he 
took all the king’s country and made him a prisoner, as I 
shall state in its proper place (II. 236). 


Multafat Khan marches against the Agrah Villagers. 

But let us now make mention of the peasants of Agrah, of 
whom I spoke before in my First Part ( 1 . 91). When Aurangzeb 
had returned to Dihli, these men rose and refused to pay their 
revenue. Owing to this he was obliged to send an army 
against them, and for this purpose he selected an officer called 



224 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDVSTIn 


Multafeit ^an,^ with whose fidelity the king was not satisfied, 
and sent him out to force the villagers to pay. On this man’s 
arrival near to a village where these rustics were collected and 
ready to defend themselves, he sent for the oldest in age and 
the greatest in authority to come to his presence. 

On the old man’s appearing, Multafet ]Stn met him cheer- 
fully and gave him a seat, and informed him most tenderly that 
he had not come to harm a soul, or to deal with them as 
enemies, but only as sons or brothers. But he must insist 
that payment of the revenue was necessary. It were better to 
pay peacefully [175] than run any risk of life, and provoke so 
many deaths and misfortunes, leaving fathers without sons and 
•Rives without husbands, grandfathers without grandsons. If he, 
like a man of understanding and capacity, would persuade the 
others to pay without a fight, he gave his word to support bim 
at court in everything he could desire or demand. 

The old man smiled and said he knew quite well they would 
never listen to his words, they being rapacious, insolent, and 
over-bold. Never would they abandon their ancestors’ prac- 
tices. All the same, he had no objection to saying to the men 
of the village whatever was required. The old man took his 
leave of Multafat S^an, and, dra-wing near to his -village, in- 
cited them all to hold fast their ancestral practices, for better 
were it to die fighting than admit they were subject to revenue 
payments. Thus they all came out, resolved to die rather tbgr. 
pay revenue. They fought with such desperation that they 
routed the force of Multafat i&an, and took him a prisoner. 
After they had given him a thorough shoe-beating they let him 
go, and told him to be off. They spared his life, for they had 
discovered he -was a woman and not a soldier. The report of 
this affair reached the king, and he sent a man -with poison to 
be given to Multafat S^an. He was told it was better to die 
from a hidden cause with honour intact, than to die in sight of 
all the court a dishonoured man. Coerced by this message 

1 Mnltafet ]mn, having been removed from the faujiar-shi-p of ^azipor- 
Zam5niyah, was made fatgdar of the Akbarabad (Jlgrah) environs. In an attack 
on a village he was wounded, and died on the 19th Jamad| II., twenty-fourth 
year, 1092 H. (July 6, 1681) (* Ma,asir-i-‘Alamg^,’ 209). 



THE AGRAH JESUITS IN TROUBLE 


225 


Multafat Khan, in desperation, took the poison, and put an 
end to his life.^ 

Auraxgzeb orders a Search ix the Houses of the 
Padres at Agrah. 

The death of Father Bus6e and the want of prudence of 
a Jesuit father were the cause of the padres undergoing 
many disagreeables. It ended in some of them being expelled 
from the kingdom. At this moment Aurangzeb was incensed 
by having his recollections of Jahangir revived on the sight of 
his mausoleum, and he (Jahangir) had been a great favourer of 
the priests. They said to the king that these priests had idols 
in their houses (thus did they designate the images that the 
fathers possessed), and that though there was no longer any 
heathen temple elsewhere in the realm, these men retained such 
idols in contravention of the royal orders. This was enough. 
Aurangzeb sent forthwith to have a search made in the house 
of the priests, fully determined to destroy them [176] if the 
searchers came across any figures in the said house. The 
priests were warned in time by some friends, and at once 
removed all the figures, leaving only the cross, which, as 
everyone knew, was our device. The men deputed went and 
searched diligently everywhere, but could not lay hands on 
any figure. Now, among them were some friendly and some 
inimical. The news-writer, who was opposed to the priests, 
wanted to record falsely that they had found two figures ; but 
the other officials forbade him, saying that it was not just to 
write falsehoods against poor people who did harm to none. 
Thus this tempest passed over the padres. 

Wine of Kabul. 

Aurangzeb feared that some powerful person might make use 
of the bravery of the Pathans for some attempt in the direction 

^ Ibraiiim llusain, entitled Multafat Khan, son of Mir 'Abd>ul-hadi. AsaJat 
Khan (* M.-ul-U.»’ i. 167), who died 1057 H., son of Mir Miran, Ilusaini, Ni'amat 
Ilahi, Yazdi Hi. 341) ; he died at AkbarabSd on the igth Jamilda II., 1092 H, 
(July 6t 1681), rank 2.500. His brother, Sultan Husain, Iftikhar Khan, died 
shortly before him (* Ma,asir-ul-Umara,* iii. 61 1, i, 252, and • Tar^-i-Muham- 
madi,’ 1092). 

VOL. II. 


15 



236 OF KISG AURASGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


of Kabul. Therefore, after Akbar had been some time in that 
kingdom, he issued an order for his supersession, and sent Shah 
^\Iam Bahadur in his place, ^ to keep a bridle upon the neigh- 
bours of the Pathans. Here Shah *Alam gave himself up to 
pleasure, drinking wine and feasting, for at that place there is 
good wine. 

They do there a marvellous thing. On making the wine they 
put it into clay jars, and throw into some of them that they wish 
to keep a ball of clay, hollow inside. The jar is then thoroughly 
closed. After two years, on opening the jars, they find the 
ball at the bottom. This is a mark that it is full of wine, and 
its contents are given only to great lords, as being the finest 
extract of the whole jar. 

Shah ‘Alarn enlivened his spirits with this wine to such an 
extent that his tutor wrote to the king. The latter sent him a 
reproving letter, recalling him to court. But the tutor on the 
journey back paid the penal t}’ of acting as spy, for Shah ‘Alarn 
gave a secret order to one of his officers to kill him when he 
was marching a little apart from the army. This was done 
accordinglj’ while Shah ^llam was at Kabul. Aurangzeb next 
sent his son Akbar as governor of Ujjain. As there was a rajah 
in rebellion, a secret order was given by letter to open a corre- 
spondence with this rajah, and manage so that he should come 
in.- He was at once to be put into durance. Akbar carried 
out his father’s order without fail [177] . He was very skilful 
in making pretences to the rajah, writing that he had an im- 
portant business to make over to him, in which he had need of 
his counsel and valour. The rajah allow’ed himself to be de- 
ceived, and came to the court of Prince Akbar. On his arrival 
the people kept in readiness for the purpose slew^ him. But 
this lesson given by Aurangzeb to his son was afterwards used 
by him to subject his father to great danger, when this same 
Akbar rose in rebellion, as a little farther on it will be necessary 
to relate (II. 190). 

^ Shah *ilam reached Kabul on the 25th Rabi* II. , twentieth 3-ear, loSS H. 
(June 27, 1677), and arrived at Dihli again on the 6th Zu,l Hijjah, twent3*-first 
year, 108S H. (January 30, 1678) {* Ma,i^ir-i-‘Alamgiri,’ 161, 165). 

^ ProbabU- this is a distorted tradition of the death of Kishan Singh, HSda, at 
Ujjain in 108S H., RabU II. (June, 1677) (* 161). 



MASUCCI RETIRES TO BAS DORA 


237 


My Departure from Lahor. 

Having acquired a sufficient capital, I became desirous of 
withdrawing from the Mogul country and living once more 
among Christians. This I could not effect by moving to Goa, 
for the mode of life of those gentlemen did not suit me. I 
resolved to retire to a village called Bandora, which is under 
the Jesuit fathers, who do not allow any Portuguese to live 
within it be3’ond a few of their own faction.^ For as soon as 
any white man appears, the^^ put a spy on him, who follows 
him constantlj’. On no account will they allow such a man to 
sleep in the village. Nevertheless, as the^’ knew that I was 
not a troublesome man, thej* were content to allow me to 
become a resident. In the village dwelt many merchants of 
different nations, it being a place of trade. One could live 
there in securitj', through the efforts of the fathers in defending 
themselves from the thieves, who traversed the ocean in such 
numbers that it was necessary for many vessels together to 
leave the port, for the Malavares (? Malabaris) and Sanganes 
(? Sanjanis) infest this coast.- 

The news spread that I meant to leave Labor, and I was 
forced to affect that the report was false, for they would never 
have let me get away, neither the nobles nor the lower orders, 
for I had great repute and was much thought of. To keep me 
they placed spies upon me to hinder my departure. But I 
carried out my intention in such a wa^” as to mislead the spies ; 
I left at night without letting anyone know. Thus I w^as able 
to proceed on my journey, for I left my heavy baggage behind, 
and everj’thing in my house in its usual order. I reached 
Sihrind without interference, and from Sihrind, passing outside 
Dihli, I rested in Agrah. From Agrah I went to Surat, where 
I came across the woman of whom I spoke earlier (II. 71), 
she who married the Armenian. From Surat I went on [178] 

* In Part III., fol. 198. N. M. says he left Mogul territory in 1676. Bandora 
is nine miles north of Bombay Fort (Thornton. * Gazetteer.' 65). In Part III., 
fol. 265, the author says he was at Bandora in 1677. 

- Yule, 540, quotes from Barros the form ‘Malavar' (1653), and Pietro della 
Valle (1623) speaks of the 'Malabar pirates.’ Sanganes ^ from Sind&n, a mined 
town eighty-eight miles north of Bombay {tbid,, 782). 


15—2 



228 OF KING A URANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDCSTAN 


to Damao,^ then through the territories of the Portuguese, 
where the fathers of the society {i.e., the Jesuits) did me 
many kindnesses, and at length I arrived at Bandora. 

Here I was advised by some people to buy a ship and thus 
not to leave my capital without fructifying. They proposed to 
me for taking charge of the ship a certain Ignacio de Taide, 
a Portuguese, who lived with the reputation of being a good 
Christian. To him I made over my ship and its cargo, which 
in all cost me the sum of fourteen thousand rupees. This 
caused others to confide to him considerable sums on seeing 
that I had faith in him. My orders to him were not to stray 
from the convoy. But having other views of his own, he went 
with the convoy only for a certain time. After that he began 
to fall behind, and, abandoning the ship, disappeared, for he 
had raised' large sums on Respondentia bonds ; he now started 
the storj’ that the pirates had seized the ship. In that case he 
would not be obliged to pay the money that he had borrowed. 
By this means I was left devoid of capital, having nothing left 
but a little money for daily expenses. This necessitated my 
asking payment from Diogo de Mello de Sampayo,® son of 
Luis de Mello de Sampayo, called the Roncador (the Bully), 
of whom I have spoken ( 1 . 123), he who fought so valorously 
at Damao. I asked him to do me the favour of returning the 
two hundred rupees, with which I had helped him in his 
necessity, out of which he had only repaid twenty. But all I 
received was the answer that he had given me the twenty 
rupees in charity; as for the money he owed me, I might 
collect it from the Mogul, who was indebted to him in a large 
amount* 

My Return to the Mogul Country. 

Finding myself without means and very ill, I made up my 
mind to return, on recovering my health, to the Mogul country 

1 DamSo, Daxnaun, loi miles north of Bombay, on the coast. An incident at 
Darain is spoken of in Part III., ig8, as happening in 1676. 

2 Query the same as Diogo de Mello Sampaio mentioned by Danvers, ii. 370, 
in 1690. 

•* In Part III , fol 265, N. M. says Antonio de Teixa, of Bandora, wanted him 
to marry his daughter. 



^^ASVCCI RETURXS TO DIHLi 229 

and try my fortune once more. Thus when I had got well I 
left Bandora with a friar in my charge, whose name out of 
respect I will not disclose, and Antonio Machado, a man well 
known for his bravado and talk, which led to his murder at 
Goa. God alone knows what I endured with this fellow-traveller, 
who, looking on the Mahomedans of Hindustan as being the 
same as the Portuguese, tried to carry everything off by bravado. 
He ignored the fact that Hindustani Mahomedans are very 
touchy, and possess sense and judgment just like any other nation. 
If I wanted to write here the foolish acts [179] done on the road 
by those two men, my story would become a very long one. 

On arrival in Agrah, I left behind me the friar, who stayed on 
account of some business. The other man wished to come with 
me as far as Dihll ; then he attempted by force to take up his 
quarters in my house. But I declined, and he was forced to 
search for a home elsewhere. He encountered all that I had 
prognosticated, for I was fairly acquainted with the Mogul 
country. It wanted very little more for this man to have 
brought the fathers of the society (the Jesuits) to perdition ; 
for in his desperation, having nothing to eat, he tried to 
denounce them to the qdzl of Agrah. He said that the only 
object of the fathers’ stay in the Mogul realm was to buy 
Qurans and transmit them to Europe. There on a fixed day in 
each year a festival took place, when they burnt the image of 
Muhammad. This was quite enough to have caused the fathers 
to be burnt alive ; and, seeing themselves in such danger, they 
collected as an alms the sum of five hundred rupees [for 
him], and were thus delivered from a great peril. For, being 
a man of little understanding, he was capable of doing such 
a silly thing. He wandered hither and thither, and then 
quitted Mogul territory, I giving him his expenses to take him 
as far as Surat.^ 

I ENTER THE SERVICE OF ShaH "AlAM. 

On my reaching Dihll several nobles took notice of my 
arrival, and called me in. The chief of these was the Master 
of the Ceremonies to Prince Shah ‘Alam, whose wife was very 
^ For the fate of Antonio Machado Supico, see Part III., p. 221. 



230 OF KIXG AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDCSTAN 


ill and given up by the other doctors. My treatment of her 
renewed my reputation, which during my absence of a year 
had been somewhat diminished. But the Persian doctors in 
the household of Shah ‘Alam did not approve of my continuing 
at court after ha\H[ng cured the said w’oman, whose case they 
had given up. This caused me to decide on a return to Labor, 
for I saw that the court was not for me. 

With this intention I left secretly, but the princess, wife of 
Shah *Alam, who had learnt of the benefit I had effected in the 
case of the wife of the Master of the Ceremonies, brought to 
mind the cases I had cured at Labor when her parents were 
there. I had also treated her in secret for a small abscess she 
had in her ear. Accordingly she besought [i8o] the prince one 
night to take me into his service, allotting to me noble’s pay. 
Not to discontent the princess, whom he loved much, the prince 
fixed for me three hundred rupees a month, and gave me in 
addition the title of a mansabd&r — that is to say, of a noble. 
This was a singular favour, the Mahomedans not being accus- 
tomed to grant such honours to Christians ; furthermore, such 
physicians and surgeons remain subordinate to and under the 
orders of the head physician. But I was a privileged person, 
for I agreed to serve on no other condition than that I must 
be left free, nor must anyone else give me orders. Thus I 
took service with Shah ‘Alam, although my Christian enemies 
did all they knew to prevent the prince’s accepting me. And 
thus, unwilling as I was to serve Aurangzeb, I was the servant of 
his son, beginning my service in the year one thousand six 
hundred and seventy-eight.^ 

Shah *Alam goes to Aurangabad, and the Death of 

Shiva Ji. 

It was in this year that Aurangzeb, dissatisfied at the way in 
which Bahadur Khan was conducting the war against Shiva JI 
and Bijapur, ordered him to be superseded by Diler iO^an, and 

^ The year is most probably correct, Shah ‘Alam reached Dihli from Kabul 
on the 6th gu.l Hijjah, loSS H. (January 30, 1678, N.S.) (‘ Ma,asir-i-*Alamgiri’, 
p. 165). The prince was appointed to the Dakhin on the iith Sha'ban, 1089 H, 
(September 28, 1678, N.S.) {ibid,, p. 169). 



HE MARCHES TO THE DAKHIS WITH SHAH ^ALAM 231 


directed him to return to court.^ He came, but with such 
ostentation that Aurangzeb was forced to show his displeasure. 
He took away his pay and rank, and paid no farther attention 
to him. He remained in this position for some time, until Shah 
‘Alam interceded for him in such a way that in the end the 
king gave way to the prince’s petitions, and restored his pay 
and rank. But this caused no improvement in Bahadur !^an, 
who remained as convinced as ever that the king was under 
some obligation to allow him his pay and rank, or even greater 
than that he held. 

Meanwhile Diler Khan did what he could to defend himself 
from Shiva Ji, who did nothing but plunder in every direction. 
It was not possible to attack his territories as they lay among 
hills very difficult of access, forming as it were a defence unto 
themselves. For if any force penetrated them, the passes were 
so easily closed behind them, that the greater portion of the 
invaders were kept there unable to do anything [181]. The 
most that Diler Khan could do was to fight with Bijapur and 
Gulkandah ; and from consideration of this war, Aurangzeb 
once more ordered Shah ‘Alam to the Dakhin. Shiva Jl, to 
show how little he thought of Shah ‘Alam, advanced to the 
gates of x\urangabad without Shah ‘Alam being able to do 
anything — nay, he was in great fear lest Shiva Ji might attack 
the suburbs and sack the whole environs.^ For he had such 
vigilant spies that he was informed of the places where this 
man and the other had buried their wealth through fear of him. 
But Shiva Ji could not tarry long, for by rushing hither and 
thither he tired himself out, and died vomiting blood in one 
thousand six hundred and seventy-nine.® 

1 For Khan Jahan’s (Bahadur Khan’s) recall, and Diler Khan’s succession, 
see Grant-Duff, p. 126 (? 1677). Diler Khan was ordered to the Dahhin before 
Muharram of the nineteenth year, 1087 H. (March, 1677). In the twenty-first 
year, 10S8 H. (late in 1677, early in 1678), Khan Jahan was recalled, *Abd-ur- 
rahman Khan. Ba^shi and Wdqi^ah-ntgdr being put in command till Diler 
Khan’s arrival (‘ Ma,asir-i-*AlamgIri,’ 150, 161). 

3 Grant-Duff. 129, ascribes this event to 1679. and says the place plundered 
was jalnah, where Shiva Ji remmned three days without Shah * Alam moving from 
Aurangabad, a distance of a little over forty miles (see Khafi Ehan. ii. 270, 271). 

•* The * Ma,asir-i-‘Alamgiri,’ 194, line 7, and the ‘ Tari^-i-Muhammadi,’ state 
that Shiva JI died on the 24th Rabi‘ II. of the twenty-third year, 1091 H. 



232 OF KING AURASGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDCSTAN 


Aurangzeb was gratified at the death of this great enemy. 
When he was dying, the rajah forbad his officers to recognise as 
their lord anycne else than Ram Raja, ^ who was his second son, 
seeing that from an early age he had declined to acknowledge 
Sambha JI as his son. Thus he ended his life, after having 
risen against his benefactor the King of Bljapur, and, sword in 
hand, had cloven his path to power, killing and devastating, 
giving full occupation even to so powerful a sovereign as the 
Mogul king, and creating a new realm in Hindustan. This 
kingdom became such a powerful opponent of the Mogul — that 
overcomer and captor of kings — thsX it compelled him to leave 
his capital and dwell in camps for more than nineteen years. 
At this date of writing, which is the twenty-first of May in one 
thousand six hundred and ninety-nine, my spies, who arrived at 
four o’clock in the afternoon, bring me letters from the army, 
and inform me that the royal camp was in great difficulty and 
confusion. The reason is that another rebel has joined [the 
Mahrattahs] ; he is called Chanda, a Hindu prince. They have 
invested the camp, and are carrying off the treasure coming in 
for the army from Hindustan, blocking the roads and defeating 
the forces sent against them. 

But when Sambha heard that his father was dead, he left 
Bljapur at once and entered his father’s territories, some of the 
officers being his partisans. These men joined him, his brother 
being a minor. Thus he took upon himself, employing the 
valour of his captains, to give trouble to the Moguls. In order 
that the officers might not quarrel among themselves, he sent 
his brother a prisoner to a fortress. He signalized his accession 


(May 22, 1680, N.S.). The latter describes him as Shivg. Ji, Bhonslah, son of 
SS.hu JI, a big man in the Dahhin and a gainer of victories ; while the former 
yields the detail that, * having come in from a ride, he vomited blood twice through 
excess of heat.’ Grant-Duflf’s date (p. 131) is April 5, 1680. Kajire ba jdhanmm 
raft (• An infidel went to hell ’) is a chronogram for the event. 

^ RfimS. Ji, or R3,m RSja, the second son by the second wife, was bom 
circa 1670, and died in March. 1700 (Grant-Duff, 133, 134, 175). 

® Sambha Ji was the eldest son by the first wife ; he was bom in 1657, and 
executed on the 24th Jam3.da II., 1100 H. (March 14, 1689). Grant-Duff, 
PP- I33t I34» iCo* lias August; the * Ma,asir-i-‘ Alamgiri, ’ 325, has the 29th of 
Jamfida II. 



DEATH OF SHIVA Jl ASD JASWAST SISGH 


233 


to pDwer beheading the officers [182] considered by him 
wanting in zeal for his cause. On the proper occasion (II. 207) 
I will state how he (Sambha Ji) showed me his sword, and told 
me that he himself with that sword had cut off the heads of 
thirty of his officers, and as for the others, he had their eyes 
gouged out. 


Death of Rajah Jaswant Sixgh. 

In this same year {? 1678) died Rajah Jaswant Singh^ on the 
farther side of the river Indus. On obtaining information of 
this death, Aurangzeb sent an order to the viceroy to forward to 
court the two sons of the rajah ; he also wrote to them direct 
that he wished to reward the valour of their father. They 
came with five hundred horsemen, leaving the surplus men to 
find their way to their own country.^ 

When they arrived at Dihli they heard that, instead of reward- 
ing them, Aurangzeb meant to cut off their heads. On finding 
this out, they fled from the city before daybreak, and posted 
two hundred and fifty horsemen on the bridge with twelve 
arches^ which stands opposite Humayun’s mausoleum. Their 
orders were to hinder anyone from passing and seizing the 
little rajahs. In the morning Aurangzeb knew of the rajahs’ 
flight, and at once sent a force to pursue and seize them. But 
the two hundred and fifty Rajputs defended the passage most 
valorously, and prevented anyone getting past them. Men 
were killed on both sides, but no one was able to pass. Then 
night fell, and the Rajputs who had barred the way rejoined 
the others who were in charge of the rajahs. Among the dead 
were two women clothed as men, who gladly offered their lives 
to defend their princes against the cruelty of Aurangzeb. 

The death of Rajah Jaswant Singh was used by Aurangzeb 

^ Jaswant Singh died on the 6th gu.l Qa*dah. loSg H. (December 18, 1678, 
N.S.)» He was then faujdar of Jamrud in the Khaibar Pass. 

3 Here Manned has not got the right story, which was much more romantic 
(see the * Fatuhat-i-*Alamgiri,‘ by Ishar Das, N§.gar, of Patan, a protege of 
She^-ul-islam, son of Qazi *Abd-ul-wahhab ; Rieu, * Catalogue of Persian 
Manuscripts,* 269, and compare Tod, * Rajasthan,* ii. 56, 57). 

* The well-known Barahpulah or Barahpalah, Bridge, which still stands in 
the position indicated. 



234 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDCSTAN 


as an opening to oppress the Hindus still more, since they had 
no longer any valiant and powerful rajah who could defend them. 
He imposed on the Hindus a poll-tax,^ which everyone was 
forced to pay, some more, some less. Great merchants paid 
thirteen rupees and a half, the middle class six rupees and a 
quarter, and the poor three rupees and a half every year. This 
refers to men and not to women [183] ; boys began to pay as 
soon as they had passed their fourteenth j^ear. Aurangzeb 
did this for two reasons: first, because by this time his treasures 
had begun to shrink owing to expenditure on his campaigns ; 
secondly, to force the Hindus to become Mahomedans. Manv 
who were unable to pay turned Mahomedans, to obtain relief 
from the insults of the collectors. 

Annoyed at the flight of the rajahs, Aurangzeb took the field 
for a campaign against the famous Rani, wife of Jaswant Singh, 
although that princess had sent to the king many letters 
inquiring the nature of his grievance. She represented to 
him the privileges conceded to them by all the previous Mogul 
kings. But with a powerful man it is no use to argue. Thus 
this princess was obliged to cede to Aurangzeb a province and 
the town of Mairtha. Thereupon the king withdrew, having 
thus repaid the benefits received from Rajah Jaswant Singh, 
who, if he had taken the side of Dara when the troubles began, 
could have been of much hindrance to Aurangzeb in acquiring 
the sovereignty.^ 

After Aurangzeb had made peace with the Rani, he retired 
to Agrah to enjoy the palaces and gardens made by Shahjahan, 
his father. But he did not repose for long ; he had been born 
to trouble others and be troubled by them. Although he had 
quite as much as he could manage with Shiva JI and the other 
two territories, Bijapur and Gulkandah, he sallied forth in 
search of further warfare. It very nearly happened that he 
came to entire ruin through a great rising which followed the 

^ The jizyak, Elphinstone, 559. says it was imposed in 1677 (10S8 H.) — that is, 
two years earlier. However, according to the * Ma,§.sir-i-‘AlamgirI/ 174, the 
correct year is logo H , twentieth year (1679-80), which agrees with Manucci. 

^ Manucci here forgets that Jaswant Singh did at the beginning take D§jrS.*s, 
and not Aurangzeb’s, side, as he has himself told us. 



KASHMIR GO VERS OR' S ISCURSIOS ISTO TIBET 235 


war with the Rana which he entered upon. The beginning 
of this war was when Ibrahim Khan/ governor and viceroy 
of Kashmir, in his anxiety to acquire glory, attempted and 
succeeded in an enterprise. It was as follows : On the confines 
of Kashmir is the province of Tibet, which belongs to China, 
divided from Kashmir by extremely high hills and chains of 
mountains. These are so steep that it is impossible to climb 
over or descend from them. But Nature taught a way of 
establishing friendship between the peoples, even though 
divided by such lofty walls. For the inhabitants carry out 
their intercourse with great fairness, those of the province of 
Tibet placing rope ladders for the descent, and when the 
business is over they remove these ladders. If they have no 
ladders, they let down their merchandise in a basket, and 
then c 3 XTy on a conversation from the heights. In this way 
they conclude their bargains. 

Ibrahim Khan managed to find out that the people of the 
town nearest the mountains were under the necessity of coming 
for a pilgrimage to another town [184] . Through the medium 
of some traders in that second town he arranged that the 
ladders should be left hanging on the mountains. On the 
appointed day he sent out his soldiers, who sacked the afore- 
said city, carrying off much wealth, including some gilt images 
of great size. Upon the return of the soldiers, Ibrahim San 
ordered the said images to be sent on to Agrah for presentation 
to the king. He wrote to His Majesty that he had taken 
the figures from the territories of China. Owing to their 
country being protected by inaccessible cliffs and rocks, he 
could not make war, but he had found a method of sending 
some infantry to plunder a town on a fitting opportunity. 
It was quite impossible to get horses over places where men 
had to climb by ropes. The figures arrived at Agrah, and 

* Ibrahim Khan, son of *Ali Mardan Khan. Amir-ul-Umara. In the twenty- 
first year {1677-78) he replaced Quwam-ud-dln Khan in Kashmir. He was next 
transferred to Bengal, where he was replaced in the forty-first year (1697-98) by 
Prince Muhammad ‘Azim. In the forty-fourth year (1700-1) he returned to 
Kashmir ; in the forty-sixth year (1702-3) he was removed to Abmadabad ; in the 
first of Bahadur Shah (1707-8) he was sent to Kabul. He died in Rabi* I., 1122 H. 
(April, 1710), aged eighty (while Governor of Kashmir ?). 



336 OF KISG AL’RASGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDCSTAX 

Aurangzeb was flattered at having viceroys zealous of his 
honour and eager to augment his glorj’. Then he had an 
attack of en\7 that his vassals were able to seize idols and 
destroy temples, while he, at the head of his great forces and 
professing such bigoted Mahbmedanism, was unable to carry 
anjdhing out against the head of the Hindus — that is, the King 
Rana — though this potentate lived in the very midst of his 
dominions. 


Acraugzeb sends an Embassy to the Rana, and 
DECLARES WaR. 

This was the reason, or at least one of the reasons, for which 
Aurangzeb determined to declare war against the said RanS. 
In order that it might not seem that he was acting without 
cause, he sent him an embassy with such and such requests. 
It amounted to telling him that he had either to become a 
Mahomedan, or had to feel the strength of his (Aurangzeb’s) 
spears, the sharp edge of his swords, the strong flight of his 
arrows, the hot fire of his artillery, and the consuming courage 
of his soldiers. The overtures were of this nature, and were 
sent through a gurz-bardar (a mace-bearer) carrying his golden 
mace, who intimated to the RSna that the first demand was 
for his daughter in marriage to one of his (Aurangzeb’s) sons. 
This is a thing the Rana would never do, for although some 
rajahs gave their daughters as wives to the Mogul, they only 
did it because they were petty princes compared to the Rant. 
If he had consented [185], he would have done great injury 
to his family.^ 

But this was a small thing in comparison with the next demand. 
This was that he should no longer coin money in his own 
name, but in that of Aurangzeb. This was the same thing 
as saying that the Rant was not the king of his realm but a 
simple governor, since the money would be graven with 
Aurangzeb’s name. The third thing he asked was one that 

^ A good account of this campaign against the RSna of Udepur vfill be found 
in Tod, ‘ Rajasthan,' i. 351-360 ; the treaty is given in a note on p. 361. He 
refers to Onne's * Historical Fragments,' p. 104, edition of 1782, 



THE RAXI^S REPLY TO AURAXGZEB 


237 


touched very closely the Hindu religion. He asked permission 
to kill cows within the Rana’s kingdom. Now, the Hindus 
being great worshippers of cows, which they hold in the 
greatest estimation, this asking leave to kill cows was to the 
Hindus as if he were to take away their religion. 

As a further indication of his design to abolish Hinduism 
throughout his kingdom, he asked, in the fourth place, for 
the destruction of all temples and the erection of mosques in 
their stead. Finalh’, Aurangzeb, as a declaration of absolute 
sovereignty' over the Rana’s kingdom, requested that the juris- 
diction of the qazl should be acknowledged — that is, the law 
of the Quran should be introduced. If the Rana did not 
wish to consent to these things, let him abandon his kingdom. 
What harder conditions could one king demand from another 
as an excuse for declaring war than what Aurangjzeb demanded 
from the Rana ? ^ 

But although these Hindus w'ere very much afraid of the 
Moguls from what had happened in the inTOsion of Taimur-i- 
lang, who with twelve thousand horsemen defeated the Rana 
at the head of one hundred thousand, of which I spoke at the 
beginning of the Second Book of the First Part of my History 
(I. 60), still, even this did not persuade the Rana to concede 
to Aurangzeb what he demanded. He replied to the following 
effect : As to the first request, it had never been the custom for 
the Rana to give his daughters in marriage to the Mogul kings. 
He could not break the ancient rule of his predecessors, nor 
was it right that he should be the first to do this injury to his 
family. As for the second request, he replied that it was 
entirely opposed to the privileges conceded by all the Mogul 
kings from Mir Shah up to the present reign. It would suffice for 
Aurangzeb to read the chronicles of the great and famous kings 
of his own family to ascertain the truth of what was now said. 

As to the third and fourth requests, the wisdom of His 

^ In the twenty-second year, 1090 H., a letter came from the Rang. (Raj Singh), 
and his son, Kunwar }ai Singh, was presented in audience at Ajmer on the 
29th Safar (April ii, 1679). The jizyah (poll-tax) was imposed at this time. On 
the iSth Rabi' I. the Rank’s son left for his home. In the twenty-third year, 
1090 H., Zu,l Ilijjah (January, 1680), Hasan ‘All Khan was sent against the 
Rana(‘M.-i-'A.,’ 174, 175, 187). 



238 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


ilajesty should be judge whether a king could admit such 
demands, they being directly contrary to a religion which had 
lasted for so many centuries in Hindustan. You might as well 
demand from the Rana his head and the destruction of his 
kingdom [iS6] as demand the things asked for by His Majesty. 

Here let me briefly inform Europeans that the Hindus of 
Hindustan are wedded to their religion for no other reason 
than that their ancestors observed it. Nor do they approve of 
its being said of their sons and grandsons that they have 
abandoned the customs of their old folk. Although this is 
reasoning unworthy of attention, still, it is so riveted into their 
heads, that it is impossible to convert them to any other religion, 
unless God endows them with powerful grace or it be done by 
force of arms. Otherwise they can never be made to change 
their religion. The padre Busee, of whom I have spoken 
(I. 259; IL 117), a man well acquainted with the people of 
India, used to say that the way to preach in Hindustan, 
whether to the Mahomedans or to the Hindus, was with a 
well-sharpened sword.^ 

As for Aurangzeb’s last request, the Rana answered that since 
he could not accept the third and the fourth, he attached less 
importance to the fifth, because every religion had its courts of 
justice conformable to its tenets. Then, in respect to the addi- 
tional remark that if he were not %\dlling to consent to these 
things he must quit his kingdom, his reply was that it had 
been acquired by his ancestors by just title ; they had never 
interfered with anyone, and were ever contented with the much 
or little which their gods granted. All this His Majesty would 
easily understand, while he knew also that the Rana could place 
in the field many soldiers whose valour had enabled him, long 
before Taimur-i-lang descended into the plains of Hindustan, 
to conquer many rajahs then existing in the Mogul country. All 
these words being the very truth itself, he earnestly entreated 
Aurangzeb to leave his kingdom in peace. There were many 
other kingdoms hostile to him, against whom he could give 
proof of his valour. The Rana had never failed to maintain 
under his (Aurangzeb’s) control and in his service seven 
^ Surely a very unchristian sentiment ! 



SHAH ^ALAM recalled TO MALIVAH 


259 


thousand cavalry. If he wished it, in order to conquer some 
other kingdom, he would send him even more men. 

Aurangzeb knew quite well that the Rana must reply in this 
style. Nevertheless, he meant to await the reply, and when it 
arrived he sent at once couriers to recall Prince Shah ^llam 
from the Dakhin, with an order to make peace with Bljapur 
and Gulkandah. Just as a father might pardon the fault of 
his little children, so must he deal with those kings, leaving 
behind nothing beyond a small force to resist Shiva Ji. To carry 
out this plan he sent Bahadur Khan to replace Shah ‘Alam [187] 
and Diler Khan, in order that these last might march and arrive 
punctuall}’ at the positions where we were ordered to camp. 

We encamped near a great lake called Rana-sagar' — that is 
to say, ‘ Made by the Rana.’ Its wall on one side is formed 
by the mountains ; on the other side are stairs of handsome 
hewn stone. This lake was so large that it took more than 
eight hours to go round it, and I say this because I proved it 
myself with my horse. In the middle of the lake there are 
three large boats,- gilded and beautiful, w^hich are anchored in 
the centre so that no one may get upon them, they being used 
by the Rana for his amusement. 

Other couriers had been sent to A^zam Tara in Bengal, 
telling him to march with his army, and fixing the point at 
which he must invade the Rana’s territory. Diler S^an, as a 
veteran and experienced general, was directed to reinforce with 
his army that of the said prince. Aurangzeb also wrote to 
Akbar, who, after he had killed the rajah (Kishan Singh), had 
proceeded to Multan, that he must come with his forces, bring- 
ing also Tabercan (Tahavvar l^an).^ For them also a place was 
fixed from which they were to attack the Rana. Letters were 
also written to the governor of Gujarat to join wdth all haste, 

1 On the 2nd Muharram, twenty-fourth year, 1092 H. (January 22, i68i), 
Aurangzeb received a report that Shih *Alam had reached Rin^-sSigar (at 
Udepnr). The word means ‘ Rank’s Lake.* 

Pataxos {fataches, or pinnaces). 

On the 25th JamadS I., twenty-first j-ear, 1089 H. (July 15, 167S), Akbar was 
appointed to Multan ; on the 7th Safar, twenty-second year, 1090 H. (March 8, 
1679), he arrived at court. Tahavvar lOian was appointed faujddr of Ajmer in 
1090 H. (1679) (*Ma,a?ir-i-*Alam3iri,' 166, 173). 



240 OF KISG AVRAXGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HIXDCSTAS 


and take up his position against the Rana. Thus for this 
campaign Aurangzeb put in pledge the whole of his kingdom, 
and the people were astounded at the whole realm being turned 
upside down for a war against a king who did not want to 
fight, who only relied upon the rights of his forefathers, and at 
the same time intended only to defend himself against the 
Mogul, without undertaking the task of overthrowing him. 
This fact may be seen in the course of this account, and thereby 
the reader will understand how inflexible are these Hindus in 
the preserv'ation of the rules made by their mightier pre- 
decessors. 

The scheme of the campaign having been worked out in the 
way stated, and the Rana’s territorj’ encircled, Aurangzeb 
started from Agrah in the year one thousand six hundred and 
seventy-nine.^ He took an army with him, and was firmly 
resolved to make himself master of the Rana’s kingdom. He 
advanced as far as Ajmer, where he halted, and thence sent out 
fitting orders to his generals for fighting valiantly, and invading 
that kingdom with vigour. He also invaded it on his side, 
sparing neither time nor fatigues. When the Rana heard 
that Aurangzeb was advancing with a great army, he sent orders 
into the provinces situated beneath the mountains for all the 
inhabitants [i88] to move into the hills and abandon their 
houses. In addition, the Rana ordered that the royal abodes 
should be left carpeted. Nor did he omit to send messages 
to Aurangzeb, begging him as a favour not to penetrate farther. 
But Aurangzeb, instead of moderating his ire and ambition on 
finding that the Rana dealt with him so courteously, even 
leaving his rooms with their carpets spread, assumed that this 

^ The start was made from Dihli, not Agrah. The following are the dates of 
Aurangzeb’s movements: On the 7th Sha'bSn, twenty-second year, 1090 H. 
(September 13, 1679), his tents went out to Palam ; on the 29th (October 5) he 
camped at the Ana-sagar outside Ajmer, On the 7th Qa'dah (December 10) 
he left Ajmer for Udepur : on the way, at Deorani, Prince Akbar arrived from 
Mairtha. On the 15th 2u,l Hijjah (January 17, 16S0) there was a march from 
Mandal, and camp was pitched at the pass of Dahbari; the Rana had fled 
from Udepur. On the 2nd Muharram, logi H. (February 3, 16S0), Aurangzeb 
visited the Rana-sagar, and on the 1st Safer (March 4) Chitor. On the 14th Safer 
(March 14. 16S0) he began his return march to Ajmer (‘ Ma,asir-i-‘Alamgiri,’ 
180-190). 



THE CAMPAIGN IS CDEPVR 


241 


was done from fear. He did all the injurj’ to the Rana that 
he could — sent out orders to knock down and make ruins of 
ever}’ temple, and to kill cows in them.^ As a farther aggrava- 
tion, finding himself by chance in a palace where there were 
statues of the ancient Ranas, and of the reigning one with his 
wives and their ladies, he, out of contempt, ordered them all to 
be broken to pieces. But the Rana proved to him one day 
how easily he could destroy him, and yet how much he desired 
his friendship. 

With this design the Rana barred the roads in such a way 
that the Moguls, being now surrounded by mountains, could 
find no exit, nor knew they where to pass ; for the roads are 
provided with labyrinths, and none but the natives know the 
right road. Aurangzeb was amazed at finding himself by one 
stroke thus encircled, unable to move either forward or back- 
ward. He knew likewise that if the Rana up to that time had 
made no movement against his person, it was not because he 
could not, but because he would not. Still more was he 
alarmed when he found that his beloved Udepuri put in no 
appearance ; nor was there the slightest news of her. Neither 
was there word of any supplies. The Rana, to show that he 
did not want to fight, sent him supplies from his own country’. 
He allowed him to suffer hunger for one day, so that hunger 
might inspire him w’ith good sense. Thus Aurangzeb, as well 
as his army, had to content himself with a little kichrt — ^that 
is, rice and lentils cooked with a little butter. 

Then in the evening the Rana sent in the Mogul’s wife 
(Udepuri Begam), in the company of his soldiers, again begging 
him as a favour to withdraw and leave his kingdom in peace, 
and made the excuse that his soldiers had stopped the roads 
without his orders. This would have been enough to pacify 
the most barbarous of kings, enraged by some great insult or 
another which he had received; while, on the contrary, this 
was a king unjustly assailed who yet granted life to his enemy, 

^ Three temples on the bank of the RanS-sagar were destroyed. Hasan *Ali 
Khan reported the destruction of 173 temples in Udepur town and neighbourhood. 
At Chitor sixty-three temples were knocked down by the Emperor’s order 

Ma,§^r-i-*Alamgiri,’ 188, i8g). 

VOL. II. 16 



242 OF KISG AURASGZEB, SIXTH KISG OF HI X DC STAS 


when he could have killed him with impunity. But not for 
such courtesies would Aurangzeb refrain from his fixed purpose ; 
on the contrarj', he sent order upon order to his sons [1S9] and 
generals to penetrate farther and farther. He himself withdrew 
to Ajmer, so as not to incur again any evil fortune. Leaving 
himself with no more than tw’o thousand men, made up of 
household slaves and clerks, he divided up his forces and sent 
them to all four quarters with orders to invade without hesita- 
tion. But his sons and generals, more prudent than Aurangzeb 
himself, perpetually made excuses, for they knew how easy it is 
to get into a lab>Tinth, yet how difficult to follow it up to the 
appointed limit, and then return by the same route. They 
knew the mishap that had happened to the king himself. Yet 
he, in his over-boldness, would not agree to desist from the 
enterprise, and insisted on carrjnng all before him. 

Aurangzeb deserved to have had Pathans to deal with in 
those mountain ranges, and of a certainty they would never 
have sacrificed such a good chance for cutting off the head of 
him who had decapitated his own brothers. But the Rana was 
more concerned in following the rules of his foregoers than in 
defending himself; thus, though not afraid of the Mogul, he 
did not care to take well-deserved vengeance for the harm done 
to him by Aurangzeb. In order to relieve himself of the obli- 
gation of doing more, he worked to get up a mutiny in the army 
of Aurangzeb. 

It is necessary to state how the adventurous Mogul proved 
that he did not mean to give up his enterprise of conquering 
the kingdom of the Rana. Whilst he was in Ajmer he ordered 
the fortress of Chitor to be put in order and garrisoned. I 
spoke of it in the history of Akbar in the Second Book of my 
First Part (I. 82). Yet, as I said there, one of the conditions 
of peace betw^een Akbar and the Rana was that both of them 
should relinquish the said fortress of Chitor, a stone being 
placed on the gateway of that fortress, on which were cut these 
words : * Neither I nor you for evermore.’ Thus Aurangzeb 
was not constant in following the rules of his fathers — at any 
rate, not in those things where he found his advantage. There- 
fore he ordered the said fortress to be garrisoned, and commanded 



PRINCE AKBAR JOINS THE RAZORS 


243 


the destruction of the pillar that the famed Padmam had caused 
to be erected in the fortress, bearing a graven stone stating you 
should never place faith in Moguls [190]. 

Prinxe Akbar Rebels. 

Seeing how much Aurang^eb was willing to risk in order to 
master his kingdom, the Rana, equally persistent not to attack 
Aurangzeb, resolved to arrange matters so that the Mogul’s own 
sons should make war against such an unjust father. He found out 
that Akbar, ^ although the youngest of all, was the boldest and most 
turbulent, as he had shown when quite small. To him (Akbar) 
selected persons were sent into the very camp of Aurangzeb. 
These men counselled him not to lose this chance of becoming 
king. If he did not act now, when his father was without his men 
and all the other princes were in the Rana’s territory, at a much 
greater distance from his father than he was, it would not be 
easy a second time to capture the crown. He embraced this 
advice, being liked by his officers and soldiers, and began his 
march for the seizure and beheadal of his father. 

Spies came to Shah ‘Alam about this rebellion, but he would 
not put trust in them, or at any rate appeared not to attach 
credit to them. For, it being a matter of great importance, he 
would be obliged to inform his father, and he feared to write 
such matters to Aurangzeb, who from his love for Akbar would 
not believe his (Shah ‘Alam’s) letters. On the contrary, he 
w’ould suspect that Shah ‘Alam wrote them in order to carry 
out some plot of his own. Nevertheless, as such news was 
very important, he sent for his generals and captains, and in 
their presence caused the exact words of the spy to be written 
down. The man said that a commotion wxuld arise, that Akbar 
had already publicly declared himself king, and with the inten- 
tion of arresting his father had already begun his march. The 
generals and captains signed at the foot of the spy’s statement. 
Thus the news was sent at once by Shah Alam to Aurangzeb. 
The latter, for the love he bore to his other son, would not 

1 For a much better account of Akbar’s rebellion, see Khali KhSn. ii. 261-270 ; 
Elliot and Dowson, vii. 298-304. Akbar*s flight was reported to Aurangzeb on 
the 26th 2 u,l Hijjah, 1091 H. (January 18, 1681), (* Ma.asir-x-Alamgiri,’ 197). 

16—3 



244 OF KIXG AURASGZEB, SIXTH KIXG OF HINDCSTJiX 


believe Shah ‘Alam’s letter, and said they were mendacious 
tales and the rebellion non-existent. 

But on the same day came in news from Akbar’s own camp 
that he had in reality rebelled, and was advancing energetically 
with thirt}- thousand RajpQts belonging to the Rani, the widow 
of Rajah Jaswant Singh, commanded by two famous leaders, 
Durga Das and Sonoegi (Soning),^ besides the other troops 
that he had. Aurangzeb was thrown into great anxiety, and 
he arranged to put into a state of defence the house [igi] he 
occupied, which stood upon a great lake. He refused to shut 
himself up in the fortress ; he distributed among the few men 
he had the charge of the windows and doors, enjoining great 
vigilance. He saw the time arrive for appreciating the saying, 
‘ Per que quis peccat, per hcec et plectetur ’ ; what he did he 
received, and he had to pay the penalty for what he had done 
to his father. But he sought eveiy* mode to evade that issue, 
and he fortified as well as he could the house, posting round it 
field-pieces, swivel-guns, and matchlock men. 

He sent letters to Shah ‘AJam, A'gam Tara, and other generals 
to reinforce him at once with the greatest haste. From this 
reason we turned right-about-face and came to rejoin Aurangzeb, 
who had already left Ajmer, and pitched his camp in the same 
place- where Dara was encountered at the second battle. We 
reached the spot three hours before the arrival of the rebel 
prince. Aurangzeb, before he marched, had also written to 
Akbar, and told him that he had heard false reports about his 
loyalty, and how evil-designing people had written that he had 
rebelled against his father, one who held him dearer than his 
soul. He longed to know the truth. If it were the fact that 
he had rebelled, he asked him the cause of his rebellion. Let 
him remember that it was not a right thing for a beloved son to 

' I take ‘Sono^’ to be Tod's ‘Soning,’ which he uses on p. 6o, vol. ii., 
* Rajasthan/ as if it were an epithet of DurgS, Das. Soning was, however, a 
separate man, as his sudden death on August 26, x68i, is lamented {ibid., p. 63), 
while Durga Das survu^ed long beyond this time. In the * Ma.asir-ul-UmarS,* 
ii. S73, the name is spelt ‘ Sonig.* The lake referred to would be the Ana-sagar 
at Ajmer» which still exists. 

2 The ‘ Ma,asir-i-‘ Alamgiri,’ 200, says he moved out on the 5th Mul^arram 
(January 25, 16S1) to the village of Dob 5 rah, thirty-five janbs distant 



AURASGZEB^S DASGEROUS POSITIOS 


245 


rebel, above all at a time when the father, for the glory of his 
suns, was busy with a grand enterprise. He admonished him 
that he ought now, at such a time, to abate his ardour and 
not throw the realm into disorder. Let him keep quiet at 
present, and allow progress against the Rana to be continued. 
At a fitting time he would let him see how much he loved 
him. 

Akbar received the letter and demonstrated, even more clearly 
than was necessarj*, what were his intentions. For he wrote 
boldl}’ to his father that he had really rebelled, that it was with 
nrm resolve to fight that he had come forth from the mountain 
abysses. The cause of his revolt was the same that his father 
had himself taught him, for had he not risen against his father ? 
The whole realm was by this time tired at seeing his tyrannical 
acts, more especially the abrogation of the rights and privileges 
that his far-off ancestors had conceded to different persons in 
Hindustan. Therefore let him prepare for battle and mount 
his horse, for he was coming straight to fight him personally. 

On hearing this message, Aurangzeb began to be still more 
disquieted [192]. It was not so much his son that he feared, 
but the thirty thousand Rajput horsemen. He knew their 
object was to take vengeance, this being a good opening, for 
the insult done to their Rani and the sons of Jaswant Singh. 
Still, to show that he w^as not afraid, he wrote to Akbar to 
come on, and he would await him on horseback. For this 
purpose he ordered a long steel spike to be made and affixed 
to the head of a fine horse that he possessed. 

When our armies became aware of this news there was great 
uproar; those who were acquainted with Akbar’s vigour and 
the small force round Aurangzeb began at once to deliberate 
whether they should not desert to Akbar’s side, as that of the 
more powerful protagonist- I know myself that Shah ‘Alam 
was thrown into considerable anxiety by this outbreak. Akbar’s 
mistake was not to carry through his project. If he had only 
learnt from his father, along with the lesson of rebellion, that 
also of energ}' and of not losing time, it is certain that he would 
have made himself king, Aurangzeb having no men to defend 
himself. But as Aurangzeb had in Akbar’s division men who 



246 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDCSTAN 


loved him, he found means to make the astrologers order Akbar 
to wait some days before marching. The time was occupied in 
making thrones and preparing supplies for the coronation 
festival. This they did to give Aurangzeb time to gather men 
for his defence. 

At this time Aurangzeb wrote a letter and made it over to the 
Master of the Horse, a big, tall man who attended the king 
when he rode out. It was this man himself who told me the storj'. 
He was directed to place the said letter between two tombs, 
and remain there on the alert to notice if during the night the 
tombs made any movement, as if striking each other. He put 
the letter between the two tombs, but saw no movement what- 
ever the whole night through. Reporting this to the king, 
Aurangzeb declared that Akbar would never come to meet him 
with his army. All the same, he did not slacken his efforts, 
sending a flying camp on ahead to watch the movements of 
Akbar’s force. 

Some men came and said to the king that the vanguard 
of Akbar was advancing with such determination that they 
were too few to resist their fury and impetus. From this cause 
Aurangzeb, although still relying upon the sorcery, had already 
given himself up for lost [193], not having yet suflBcient men, 
although more were coming in hour by hour. It was the period 
of the short rainy season in those regions — that is to say, it was 
the month of January one thousand six hundred and eighty-one.^ 
The rain and the wind gave us enough to suffer from, coupled 
with the mud and mire of the roads. All the same, we arrived 
(as I have said) (ante, II. 191) three hours before the appearance 
of Akbar and his army, although we had been much farther off 
than Akbar had been ; and he took four days in coming to 
execute his project, when he could have done it in two, at which 
time Aurangzeb was without soldiers and without strength. 
It looked as if the heavens wished to announce this rebellion, 
for on the vespers of the Nativity (December 24, 1680) of one 
thousand six hundred and eighty there appeared a large comet 
with a tail. It was at the time that we were encamped near 
the tank of which I spoke (Rana-sagar, ante, II. 187). From 

^ This date fits in with the Indian histories, and is probably correct. 



AKBAR S ENTERPRISE FAILS 


247 


this occurrence (the comet) our camp became perturbed and 
concerned, not knowing what was about to happen. 

Although we had joined him, Aurangzeb did not yet count 
himself safe, being in great dread of the Rajputs. He therefore 
resorted to his usual devices. Learning that on the next day 
battle would be offered, he wrote a letter to Akbar. In it he 
said that he had always found him to be an obedient son, above 
all was he so in this pretence at a revolt, but it was now neces- 
sarj’ to complete the operation with the same dutifulness. Let 
him remember to post the Rajputs in the vanguard, and then 
during the battle he should carry out his part in their rear, slay- 
ing as many as he could. Aurangzeb and his army would kill all 
the others, and thus %vould he execute the wished-for vengeance 
on the Rajputs, and destroy them all. He wrote thus because 
he knew that the Rajputs of themselves had offered to fight in 
the vanguard, and when they intercepted the letter they would 
suspect Akbar and leave him. This came to pass; for the 
Rajputs, getting hold of the letter, feared they had been 
betrayed. Forthwith, without any warning to Akbar, they 
took to flight. 

Akbar rose at midnight to make ready for the great attempt, 
when it was already too late to begin. Supposing the Rajputs 
to be still in their due place, he found instead the camp 
evacuated, for the rest of his army had also fled, leaving him 
with only a few soldiers. The prince fell into profound dejection 
[194] at finding himself abandoned, and felt unable to decide 
w’hat ought to be done. Tahavvar ]^an, who was in the 
king’s service, seeing that the cause was lost, now staked his life 
on making Akbar king. He said to the prince that, since they had 
not men enough, the rebellion could not be carried to comple- 
tion. Let him vrait where he was with the few men he had left, 
while he went to assassinate the king.^ 

In pursuance of this design he entered the royal* camp, clad all 

^ Jan Beg, Harawi, entitled, first, Tahavvar Kh§.n, then Bfidshfih QuH ghfin. 
one of ‘^lamglr’s great nobles, joined Prince Akbar during his revolt, and, 
coming to the Presence with an evil intent on the night of the 6th 5th) 
Muharram, 1092 H. (January 24, 1681, N.S.)» was killed (see * Ma,^ir-i- 
*Alamgiri,’ 201 ; * Ma,asir-ul.Umara,* i. 447 ; and * Tarikh«i-Mnhammadi> 
1092). 



248 OF KISG AURASGZEB, SIXTH KL\G OF HIKDCSTAS 


in mail, telling the sentries who challenged him that he was 
Tahavvar IQian, and, being a known man, he was allowed to pass 
without difficulty. During a storm of rain and wind he arrived 
close to the roj^al tent. If he had found entrance then, he and 
his companions could have killed the king and Shah ‘Alam and his 
sons, who were quite unprotected, the rain and the cold having 
made the soldiers retire into their tents. At this time the 
guard on the royal tent consisted of only a door-keeper or two. 
Lutfullah Khan,^ son of Sa'dullah Khan, who commanded the 
guard, was inside the entrance to the tent. He challenged the 
traitor and asked who he was, and the intruder responded 
freely that he W’as Tahavvar Khan, feeling confident that, being 
of the king's ser\ice, he would be sure to let him pass in without 
hindrance. But Lutfullah Khan made him wait till he had 
carried a message to His Majesty. He was given permission 
to enter on condition of giving up his arms. On hearing this 
message from Lutfullah Ehan, Tahavvar Sian said that he 
could not give up the sword that this very king had attached to 
his side. Upon this Lutfullah Qian said he should never enter 
unless he left his sword, and there was between them some 
exchange of words. Men collected to hear the cause of dispute, 
and his blood getting heated, Tahavvar Eban laid hold of his 
sword to force his way in. But Lutfullah Eban and the others 
also seized their w^eapons, and a fight began. Tahavvar i^an, 
being clad in mail, made no account of them. In a few 
moments the king heard the disturbance, and shouted out 
orders to kill the intruder. Trying to escape, Tahavvar Qian 
became entangled in the horses’ heel-ropes and the tent-ropes, 
and fell to the ground. The others cut off his head. When 
they told the king that Tahavvar !San was dead, he issued 
orders to bury him at the entrance of the tent door. Thus died 
Tahawr.r Khan in trying to make a king of Akbar. 

The latter, when he heard of Tahavvar Span’s death, went 
into his tents, broke open his boxes of jewels and of [195] gold 
coin, and, disguising his women in men’s attire, fled again 
into the Rajput territory. When the day dawned he met the 

^ For Lutfullah KMn. see ‘ Ma,Ssir-ul-Umar§,/ iii. 171. He died on the 
i8th Sha'ban, 1114 H. (January 7, 1703). 



ATTEMPTED ASSASSISATIOS OF AURASGZEB 


249 


Rajput captains and generals. By the time they had learnt 
the reason of his flight, and the deception played off on them 
by Aurangzeb, there was no longer any remedy either for the 
death of Tahawar Khan or for the abortive result of their 
project. The sun rose, and it seemed as if heaven meant to 
congratulate Aurangzeb on having escaped from the net that 
his son had spread for him. Men were to be seen going and 
coming from Akbar's camp with their clothes and chattels. 
Others were arriving to demand pardon from Aurangzeb for 
what they bad tried to do. They made excuse that they could 
not have done less, for if they had refused, Akbar would certainly 
have cut off their heads ; and they had taken advantage of the 
darkness to flee from a son who had rebelled against his own 
father. But Aurangzeb’s only reward for these good excuses 
was to send them prisoners to the fortress of Gw'aliyar. 

Shah ‘Alam marches against Akbar. 

Aurangzeb, who never allowed delay in matters of importance, 
upon being told that Akbar had fled, gave orders the same day 
to Shah ‘Alam to pursue until he had seized him.^ Shah Alam 
replied that on his part he would do what was possible to 
capture him ; but as Akbar was a man of resolution, it might 
be that he would turn to give battle. In the battle he might 
be killed. He therefore prayed His Majesty that if such an 
unwished-for event resulted, he should not be blamed. Aurang- 
zeb answered that even if Akbar were killed, it would be well, 
for a rebellious son is unworthy to live. 

Thus we issued from the royal camp with a considerable 
force, and we had to suffer enough from the recent rains. We 
were also worn out by the haste we had made in coming from the 
Rana’s country to reinforce Aurangzeb. Now we marched out 
in search of Akbar, who fled through the lands of the Rajputs, 
and kept us running in one direction, and then in another, up 
to the end of March (1681). During this time Shah ‘Alam, 
who had learnt the lesson from his father, wrote letter after 

* Akbar’s flight took place in the night between the 5th and 6th Muharram, 
1092 H. (January 24-25, 16S1). Shah *Alam was sent in pursuit on January 26, 
1681 Ma,asir-i-‘Alamgiri/ 202, 203). 



250 OF KING AURASGZEB, SIXTH KIXG OF HISDCSTAX 


letter to Akbar telling him to surrender, and he would find 
a way to procure their father’s pardon. Akbar, who by 
this time knew Aurangzeb tolerably well [iQbj, although he 
had no faith in him pretended to believe- He wrote to Shah 
‘ Alam that very’ willingly would he come in, but having incurred 
some debts, he was in need of four thousand gold coins. Having 
paid his debts, he would, without fail, come and place himself 
under his brother’s protection and pledged word- 

Shah ‘Alam, who imagined his brother to be speaking the 
truth, sent him the four thousand coins, which were used to pay 
the Rajputs. Akbar then made for the Dakhin, there to throw 
himself upon Shiva Jfs the Mahrattahs’) protection. We 
were unable to pursue him over the impassable roads of those 
mountain ranges. In this negotiation between Shah ‘Alam 
and Akbar, Kanealam (Khan ^Alam), son of Nazabatcan (Naja- 
bat Khan), a very fat man, who was a partisan of Akbar, wrote 
a letter to Shah ^llam that if he were willing to pledge his 
word to protect him, he would quit Akbar and desert to his 
(Shah ‘Alam’s) side. Shah ‘Alam pledged his word, and Khan 
^llam came and put himself in the hands of Shah ^llam, and 
he was sent to court with a recommendation. But Aurangzeb, 
who did not pardon sons, was not likely to pardon Khan ‘Alam. 
As soon as the man arrived he ordered him to be built up in 
a room, leaving only a small aperture through which they gave 
him poisoned food, and he was forced to do there the offices of 
nature, and there he died- 

On this occasion Shah *Alam wrote that Akbar had now 
escaped. The king had spies who informed him of eveiylhing 
that happened, and he replied that before he (Shah ‘Aiam) had 
thought of writing, he had already received news of Akbar’s 
flight ; and as he (Shah ‘Alam) was doing no good, he must 
come back to headquarters. Thus we retraced our steps by 
the orders of Aurangzeb. He saw that Akbar’s revolt had 
thrown the kingdom into confusion ; he therefore wrote to all 
his governors and viceroys with orders to beat the kettledrums 
and hold festivals, to let the people know that he had gained 
the victory over his rebel son Akbar. During this time the 
defeated prince fled hither and thither. In spite of all the 



AKBAR ESCAPES TO THE MAHRATTAHS 


251 


efforts to seize or kill him, there were no results, for by this 
time Akbar had found refuge in the country of Sambha Ji, who 
made it his pride to have within his territories a son of his 
deadly enemy [197].^ 

Aurangzeb makes Peace with the Rasa. 

Despairing of success in his attempt to conquer the Rana’s 
country, owing to the difficulty of making his way into it, and 
finding that Akbar had beaten a retreat to the territories of 
Sambha Jl, Aurangzeb became desirous of concluding a peace 
with the Rana, for which that ruler had several times made over- 
tures. Aurangzeb was now eager to strengthen his position in 
the Dakhin, fearing that Akbar w’ould lose neither time nor 
opportunity in making himself formidable with the aid of 
Sambha jL Thus in the very same region where he (Aurangzeb) 
began his contest for the throne, Akbar would acquire power, 
wealth, and soldiers. The chief difficulty was, how'ever, to 
make a peace with the Rana, for Aurangzeb could not make 
overtures without loss of honour. He also feared that the 
Rana and the nobles in his kingdom, as also his own officers, 
among whom were some friendly to the Rana, might mock at 
him for ha\*ing refused the proffered peace, which he was now 
himself compelled to sue for. For these reasons he directed 
Diler Khan to undertake the office of mediator between him 
and the Rana, and conclude a peace.^ 

Diler Khan wrote to the Rana saying that, looking to the 
long-established friendship between the Rajput realm and that 
of the Moguls, considering also the chivalry with which the 
Rana treated his enemies in time of war, there were signs 
that His Majesty the Rana had no desire for further war. The 
writer had therefore undertaken to mediate and arrange a 
peace between him and King Aurangzeb, his master, if His 

^ Khan Jahan (Bahadur Khan) reported that on the 7th Jamada I,, 1092 H. 
(May 25, 1681), Akbar, passing near Burhanpur, had entered Sambha Jfs 
territory (‘ Ma,asir-i-‘AIamgiri/ 205, last line). 

*•* R. Orme, ‘ Historical Fragments/ p. 106, edition of 1805. Tod, * Rajasthan/ 
i. 360, mentions that Diler K'Han made use of a RajpQt officer (Shyam Singh, of 
Bikaner). He also gives the terms of the agreement or treaty (i. 361, note a). 



352 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDCSTaN 


Majesty (the Rana) should so desire. The Rana saw quite 
clearly that this was mere policy on the part of Aurangzeb, 
who was in want of peace, and he therefore dissimulated, in 
order to convince Aurangzeb that he was under no necessity to 
make terms. He therefore replied to Diler Khan in a dilatory 
strain, excusing himself from discussing peace terms, as he had 
other business on hand within his territories. Diler Khan, by 
order of Aurangzeb, persisted in talking of a peace, and sent 
letter after letter to the Rana ; now detailing [the Mogul] strength 
and valour ; now stating that his forefathers [the Rana’s] had 
never wished to make war upon the Mogul ; now threatening a 
farther advance, talking of setting fire to everything found on 
the way ; now pointing out to him how* he would confer a great 
favour on the Mogul by consenting to a peace [198] at a time 
when he was so embarrassed by the rising of his son. But the 
Rana, although desirous of peace and escape from further war- 
fare, gave various excuses, such as that he was quite willing, 
but being in ill-health, he could not apply his mind to such an 
important affair as making a solid and durable peace with the 
Mogul. 

In this manner he kept Aurangzeb in expectation, and the 
delay was very heavy to bear. For, meanwhile, his son Akbar 
and Sambha Jl were far from wasting their time. These 
negotiations went on for some five months, and in the end the 
Rana sent his brother to the court to complete the treaty of 
peace.^ He was received with great honour; and, in truth, 
being the brother of a powerful king, such honour was politic 
on Aurangzeb’s part, in order to facilitate the negotiations. 
Peace was made ; nor were there any new provisions, beyond the 
grant by Aurangzeb to the Rana of a province which formerly 
belonged to his state, but had been ceded by his ancestors to 
the Mogul. The Rana’s ancient privileges were confirmed. In 
addition thereto the Rana was under obligation, as I have said 
(II. 187), to keep seven thousand horseman in the Mogul 

^ This must be Bhim Singh, brother of RSnU Jai Singh, of whom Tod tells 
a romantic tale of renunciation (i. 364). Bhim Singh was received by Aurangzeb 
on the 13th Sha*ban, 1092 H, (August 28, 1681) 212). The negotiator 

(Tod, 360, note> is said to have been Sur Singh, uncle of the RSLna. 




XIX. Slltan Mu‘izz-ud-dTn, Eldest Son of Shah ‘alam. 




STORY OF QU^VA^f^UD-DIS KBAS 


253 


service at his own expense. But these men had a bad name, 
and committed great oppression in the Mogul countr}* ; no one 
dared to interfere with them ; they stole, buffeted, and slew, with- 
out anyone being able to question their acts. Aurangzeb there- 
fore judged it to be of greater profit to the Moguls to dismiss 
instead of retaining such people. But not desiring to prejudice 
the rights he had over the Rana, he contrived that the Rana 
should undertake to give every year the necessary" money for 
the pay of that number of soldiers, but should send no more 
horsemen. Thus the Rana’s brother had his audience of leave- 
taking, and Aurangzeb was satisfied at having secured peace 
with a king who had spared his life once, and would be able 
to do him still greater harm by merely delaying to make 
peace. 

During the time that these things were going on, it happened 
that Mirza Kuchak, of whom I spoke during my stay in Isfahan 
(I. 28), who had been expatriated, came to ask assistance from 
Aurangzeb.^ He gave this man various appointments, and in 
the end made him viceroy of Labor. At this time it was 
reported to the viceroy that the qdzi had killed two Hindu 
women in his house, and had [199] buried them in a pond. 
The governor, being zealous to see justice done, ordered the 
kofwdl to institute a search in the qazfs house and discover the 
truth. But the qazl would not allow the kofwdl into his house, 
not wanting to be prejudiced, and took arms in his own defence. 
The stiff-neckedness of the qdp, having been reported to Mirza 
Kuchak, he directed an entry by force, and if necessary they 

^ In the seventeenth year, 1084 H. (1673-74), QuwSm-ud-din KhSn, IsfahSnl, 
Sair of IrS,n, and brother of Khalifah-i-Sultaji . the wazlr, appeared in India, 
and was made 3,000, 1,500 horse. In 10S5 H. (1674-75) he was promoted; in 
the nineteenth year, 10S7 H. (1675-76), he was appointed Governor of Kashmir. 
After his return to court in the twenty-first year, 1088 H. (1677-7S), he was 
appointed to I-ahor, 1089 H. (end of 1678). In the twenty-third year. 1091 H. 
(1679-80), ‘All Akbar, the qazl of Labor, having been killed, the governor and 
the koiu'&l were removed. Quwfim-ud-din appeared before Aurangzeb at Ajmer, 
and was so tortured in the ecclesiastical court that the deceased’s son withdrew 
his claim for retaliation, the accused being an old man. He died of shame about 
the iSth Zu,l Qa‘dah of the same year, 1091 H. (December 11, 16S0) (‘ Ma,asir-i- 
*Alamgiri,* 130, 139, 151, 163, 166, 188, 195; ‘ Tarikh-i-Mubammadi, ’ 1091; 

* Ma,asir-ul-Umara,’ iii. 109-115 ; ghafi Khan, ii. 256, but wrong year). 



254 OF KISG AURASGZEB, SIXTH KISG OF HISDCSTAS 


were to fight. If anyone were killed, he would accept the re- 
sponsibilit}’. 

Off went the and fought with such vigour that the qa;?!, 
too, fell along with the other dead. Thereupon the learned 
men assembled and wrote to the king about this mournful event, 
and said that never had it been heard of in Hindustan that 
anyone had ventured to put forth a hand upon the sacred 
person of a qdzi. None but a Persian would be guilty of such 
a deed, for, being of a different faith, he made no account of 
persons who professed and taught the true religion. Upon re- 
ceiving this petition, Aurangzeb removed Mirza Kuchak and 
ordered him to court. Hardly had he arrived when he resorted 
to the royal presence. Aurangzeb, a subtle Mahomedan, said 
to him that he would have to talk to him about the qdzi's case. 
Mrrza Kuchak understood, and was well aware that if the 
qazVs case was in issue, he would die subjected to great shame 
and affronts. Therefore, leaving for his house, he took poison 
and died. This was the end of the man who pronounced the 
sentence that for a Mahomedan who killed a Christian it was 
sufficient punishment to make a slight cut on the end of the 
little finger until he had lost three drops of blood, and make 
him pay ten patacas} 

Aurangzeb was determined, on various pretexts, to pursue 
Akbar, but foresight induced him to consider what might 
happen. He was afraid that the King of Persia might 
seize the opportunity to make some attack on the kingdom; 
therefore Mirza Bafia (PWafa),^ grandson of the Sahedcan 
Bahadur (Sa‘id Sian Bahadur), of whom I spoke in Shah- 
jahan’s reign (I. 145), was sent as ambassador in ordinary or 
resident to the King of Balkh. If there should be any move- 
ment of the Persians against the Mogul kingdom, he (the King 
of Bal^) w’as to take the field against them, and Aurangzeb 
w’ould not only pay all the expenses, but give him a reward. 

^ A pataca is said elsewhere to be equal to two rupees. 

* On the 25th Rabi* II., 1096 H., twenty-eighth year (April i, 1685), Wafadar 
Khgin. grandson of Sa^id Ehan. Bahadur, was made Zabardast Khan, and sent 
to guard the frontier of Bal^. He carried presents for Subh^ TThan ^ the 
ruler (* M.-i-‘A.,’ 255). For Sa*id Khan. Bahadur, Zafar Jang, who died 1062 H., 
see ‘ Ma,asir-ul-UmarS,' ii. 429-437. 



AURASGZEB STARTS FOR THE DAKHIS, i68i 


255 


The King of Balkh, in order to preserve the friendship of 
Aurang2eb, and attracted by the hope of lucre, accepted the 
proposal made to him by Aurangzeb [200]. 

As soon as the peace negotiations with the Rana were com- 
pleted, Aurangzeb left Ajmer early in September of the year 
one thousand six hundred and eighty-one.^ His object now 
was a war against Sambha JI, all unmindful of his fate — namely, 
that this departure was for ever, that there would be no return 
for him either to Agrah or to Dihll; for it is now nineteen 
years in 1700] that he has been in camp without effecting 
anything against that rebellious people, the Mahrattahs. God 
only knows what will come to pass in the end! For the 
reports continually brought in to me are that he is in a very 
bad way, closely pressed by the aforesaid Mahrattahs. Thus 
until this day he has not been able to accomplish the enter- 
prise he intended (as he said) to finish in two years. He 
marched, carrying with him his three sons, Shah *Alam, A^zam 
Tara, and Kam Bakhsh, also his grandsons. He had with 
him much treasure, which came to an end so thoroughly 
during this war that he was compelled to open the treasure- 
houses of Akbar, Nur Jahan, Jahangir, and Shahjahan. 
Besides this, finding himself with very little cash, owing to 
the immense expenditure forced upon him, and because the 
revenue-payers did not pay with the usual promptitude, he 
was obliged at Aurangabad to melt down all his household 
silver ware. In addition to all this, he wanted to empty the 
great store-houses filled with goods left by deceased persons, 
or with property collected in Akbar, Jahangir, and Shahjahan's 
time from the men, great or small, who had been servants of 
the State. But afterwards he ordered these store-houses not to 
be opened, for he rightly feared that, he being absent, the 
officials would embezzle more than the half. 

Death of Begam Sahib. 

But let us begin to recount the royal march. The women 
also moved with us, except Begam Sahib or Padshah Begam, 

^ Aurangzeb started from Ajmer on the and Rama^n, X092 H. (September 15, 
1681, N.S.) M.-i-’A.,’ 212). 



2s6 of kixg aurangzeb, sixth king of hisdCstas 


who, being now old, had desired to remain in Agrah. During 
this march to the Dakhin we heard that she had ended her 
life,^ fulfilling her own prophecy. For before Aurangzeb left 
Agrah this princess tried to prevent the king beginning hostilities 
against the Rana. She told him the undertaking was veiy 
difficult, almost impossible, and that it was verj- probable they 
would never meet again, as [201] turned out to be the case. 
At the time of her death this princess divided her propertj* 
and jewels among her nieces, leaving to each a good deal of 
money and jewels. Xor did she overlook her beloved Jani 
Begam, to whom she bequeathed her finest jewels and a 
greater share of money. Upon this news reaching the camp, 
we halted for three days by the wish of Aurangzeb, who showed 
himself touched by the death of a princess of good ability, who, 
although she had her faults, left behind her, on the whole, the 
name and fame of a wise woman. 

On hearing of Aurangzeb’s approach to the Dakhin, Sambha JI 
did not desist from his usual plundering expeditions in all direc- 
tions. This was meant to show what little fear he had of that 
great army. Before we reached Burhanpur he sacked a large 
village four leagues distant from the royal camp. Shah ‘Alam 
was quite pleased, for Aurangzeb had withdrawn him from the 
Dakhin, after reproving him for allowing Shiva JI during his 
government to get so close to him. Thus now Shah ‘Alam 
rejoiced to see that Sambha Jl made no account of his father ; 
on the contrarj’, he plundered quite close to his encampment. 

Angered at the temerity of Sambha JI, Aurangzeb marched 
with the greatest haste to Aurangabad in order to distribute 
his army in different positions, and see if he could not capture 
Sambha JI, and draw forth this thorn which w’as giving him 
so much annoyance. We arrived at Aurangabad, and here 
the king fixed his court. He kept with him his sons and 
grandsons, and sent out generals in different directions to 
invade the territories of Shiva JI (the Mahrattahs). During 
this time the latter was ravaging the Dakhin. Some detach- 
ments he allowed to penetrate his territories, and there destroyed 

^ She died on the 3rd Ramazan, 1092 H. (September 16, 1681) (*Tari^-i- 
Muhammad! *). 



AKBAR ASD SAME HA ji 


257 


them by throwing poison into the water or closing the routes. 
He thus caused great losses in Aurangireb’s armies. The king 
did not know what course to adopt to impede Sambha Jfs 
assaults and conquer his lands. Assuming that his best plan 
would be to conquer the kingdom of Bijapur, he once more 
declared war against that king. Looking on him as a child, 
on one hand he made war against him, and on the other wrote 
him friendly letters. 

The general sent against Bijapur was Diler Khan, who did 
his duty as a good soldier [202]. But Shah ‘Alam had a 
grievance against him for his refusal to sign the paper of the 
feigned rebellion (II. 124), also for his not treating him (the 
prince) with sufficient respect. A splendid opening had now 
been found by Shah ‘Alam for ending the life of this famous 
commander, and he caused poison to be administered to him 
whilst he was conducting the campaign against Bijapur.^ 
Aurangzeb was grieved at the death of so great and so faithful 
a general, for whom he had considerable affection, in spite of 
his being a Pathan. It is the rule in the Mogul realm not 
to trust that race. 

The unhappy Bijapur ruler, in addition to an invasion from 
Aurangzeb’s army, found himself attacked by Sambha Ji, w-ho 
at this time took from him some fortresses, and was thus ever 
strengthening himself against the Mogul. 

It happened just then that some of Sambha JFs officers 
quarrelled with him because he continued to interfere with 
other men’s wives.- They signed a treasonable letter against 
their prince, in which they promised to join Prince Akbar, 
to whom the letter was sent. The latter was eager enough 
to make use of such a good opportunity, but he would not 
act without the advice of the [Rathor] leader Durga Das, to 
whom he confided the secret. Durga Das counselled him not 
to rely on such a letter, and said it was possible that Sambha 
Ji was himself the originator of this fiction, in order to see 

^ Jalai, entitled Diler Khan, son of Darya KhSn. Rohelah, Da»udzai, died 
at the end of 1094 H. (about December, 1683) in Aurang&bad (‘TSlrlUi-i- 
Mu^iammadi ’). For his biography, see ‘ Ma,asir-ul-Umara,’ ii. 42-56. 

* Grant Duff, 155, speaks of Sambha JVs profligacy. 

VOL. II. 


17 



25 S OF KL\G AURANCZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


whether he (Akbar) would countenance such a rebellion, or 
was in reality a prince grateful for the many favours done to him. 
The safe course would be to confide the said letter to Sambha 
Ji himself, and prove to him the fidelity and gratitude felt 
towards him. 

Sambha Ji received the letter, and since the writing was 
genuine and also treasonable, he forthwith ordered those 
officers to be beheaded. He returned thanks to Akbar for 
his good faith, and assured him that he would always continue 
to favour his cause. By this time the prince had repented of 
not having seized the occasion, but now it was too late. It is 
incumbent on me to state that Sambha Jl’s victories were not 
the fruit of his own valour, but were due to his officers. He was 
much more inclined to spend his time with women, amusement, 
and wine, than to take the field and emulate the example of 
valour and untiring exertion bequeathed him by his father [203]. 

Aurang^eb heard of the plot that the officers of Sambha Jl 
wished to cany out, and of Akbar’s refusal of such a good 
opportunity. He feared that, owing to Sambha Jl’s irregular 
life, those men might a second time propose to make Akbar 
their prince, that he might then accept, and be able then to 
come against him (Aurangzeb) with a strong army. He there- 
fore sent endearing letters to Akbar, pressing him to return ; he 
knew well (he said) that the rebellion the prince had headed 
during the campaign against the Rana was not his own doing, 
but the work of his officers. He could now return with confi- 
dence, and he would be pardoned. Aurangzeb pledged his 
word, backed by an oath on the Quran, that no harm would be 
done to him. Letters went back and fore, but Akbar knew his 
father, and was not such a fool as to trust himself to the hands 
of one who had already murdered one son. But he wrote 
such humble and submissive letters that Aurangzeb dispatched 
his tutor to him, and a considerable sum in gold accompanied 
by a letter, which declared that he (Aurangzeb) was anxiously 
expecting his son’s return. 

Finally, Aurangzeb, finding that his son still hesitated to 
start, wrote to him another letter, in which he pretended 
astonishment at the delay, and once more invited him to come 



OPPRESSIVE GOVERSOR REMOVED 


259 


back. But Akbar, who had now drawn from his father enough 
funds to last him a long time, wrote that most certainly he 
meant to come, but it could be in one way only — sw’ord in hand, 
and at the peril of his life to make himself King of Hindustan, 
after killing his father. By this time Aurangzeb recognised 
that the procedure of Shah ‘Alam in sending money to his 
brother, at the time when he first went in pursuit, was no such 
great fault of judgment, since he (Aurangzeb) himself had fallen 
into the same mistake. 

It was at this juncture that news reached Aurangzeb about 
the governor of Surat, called Cartalab Can (Kar-t.alab Khan).* 
.At the said port he had committed many wrongful acts, so that 
many times the inhabitants were forced to send complaints to 
the court. But as he was rich, and gave bribes to the ministers, 
the complaints never reached the royal ear ; or if they did 
reach it, they were depicted as much more trifling than they 
really were. But God will not suffer for long the screening of 
the evil-doer, and opened a door by which [204] .Aurangzeb w’as 
informed of the truth. He then sent the governor an order 
calling him to .Aurangabad. As soon as he arrived, before he 
had been presented in the royal audience-hall, Aurangzeb sent 
a eunuch with poison to be given to the said governor. When 
the eunuch reached the tents of Kartalab Khan, he called for 
him in a loud voice, and according to the custom of these over- 
bearing instruments, said it was the ro>-al order that in his 
presence, and without delay, the poison sent by the king should 
be swallowed. Thus he was forced to take it, so as not to give 
the king a chance of issuing an order for the destruction of his 
entire family. In this way did the man end his life who had 
given rise to so many complaints, affording a warning to others 
to comport themselves with greater equity, and carry out the 
king’s service with more tenderness. 

Finding that he could not effect anything of value against 
Sambha Jl, Aurangzeb became desirous of completing his 
acquisition of the Bijapur kingdom. He therefore corre- 

1 On the 4th Shawwal, twenty-eighth year, 1095 H. (September 15, 16S4), 
SaJabat ig^han replaced Kar Talab KhSn (Muhammad Beg) as Muiasaddi (manager) 
of Bandar Sflrat (‘ Ma.S^ir-i.'Alamgiri.’ 247). 


17—2 



26 o of kisg aurasgzeb, sixth king of HINDCSTAN 


sponded with the generals of that realm, sending them large 
gifts and presents in the hope that they might rebel against 
their king and come over to his army. Among those who con- 
sented to Aurangzeb’s proposals was Abdul Aquim (‘Abd-ul- 
hakim). This man, knowing by experience the bravery of the 
Goa Portuguese, for they had defeated him, counselled Aurang- 
zeh to make friends with those Europeans. If they continued 
their hostilities, Sambha Jl would be forced to keep two armies 
in the field, one in the direction of the Dakhin, the other 
opposed to the Portuguese. Thus it would be more easy to 
stop him from plundering in all directions. 

Aurangzeb wrote to the viceroy, Francisco de Tavora, Conde 
de Alvor,^ asking him to make war on Sarnbha Jl, and offering 
to make him a gift of all the lands he took from that prince. 
Aurangzeb’s rebellious son, Akbar, was in Sambha Jl’s company: 
they must refuse him any passage, and decline to give him any 
assistance ; in fact, if they could capture or kill him, they would 
be doing him (Aurangzeb) a great favour. In due time he would 
require such a service. To carry these things through, he sent to 
them Sec Mahamed (Shekh Muhammad) as his envoy. Mean- 
while, on the advice of the said *Abd-ul-hakim, he made 
preparations to send Shah ^Alam in the direction of Goa to 
invade the territories of Sambha jL A fleet was to go by sea 
[205] from Surat, taking supplies of provisions for the army of 
that prince. 

My Return to Goa, and the Various Events which 
HAPPENED There during my Stay. 

It was at this time that out of disgust I resolved to live 
no longer among Mahomedans, now that I had put together a 
sufficient sum. Nor did Shah *Alam pay me at all punctually. 
I therefore decided to return to Goa, where I had some money 
in the hands of the Theatine fathers,’^ meaning to leave 
eventually for Europe. For this reason I asked several times 

^ Francisco de Tavora, Conde de Alvor, arrived in Goa on September ii, 
1681, and left India on December 15, 1686 (Danvers, ii. 361, 370). 

^ The Theatines first arrived at Goa on October 25, 1640 (Miillbauer, 
‘ Geschichte,’ 351;. The Fathers at Goa were Italians from Milan. 



MASUCCI OBTAISS LEAVE 


2^.1 

for my discharge, which he vShah ^\lam) always refused me, 
till at length I told him that my private affairs needed my 
presence at Surat, and he must give me leave for at least two 
months. He consented to this, and I went to Surat ; there 
Senhor Francisco Martin,^ at this day general of the royal 
company of France, gave me an armed sloop to carrj' me as far 
as Daman in Portuguese territory. Thence I got to Goa, and 
lived in the gardens. When Aurang^eb’s letter reached the 
viceroy he had me sent for to translate it into Portuguese. On 
hearing the proposals I gave him advice as to w^hat he should 
do. For this war could not be of any benefit to the Portuguese, 
seeing that the Mogul would never be content to leave the 
Portuguese to themselves after he had destroyed Sambha Jl. 
In spite of this, the viceroy engaged in the war against that 
prince, and thereby all but lost Goa [206]. 

Akbar seeks the Means of delivering Goa into the 
Hands of Sambha Ji. 

Sambha JI learnt the above news, and Akbar, who w'as living 
in that prince’s territories, not far from Goa, was anxious to 
show his gratitude for the honour Sambha Jl had shown him. 
He also sought occasion to prepare for the flight which he 
designed to make into Persia, and wanted to ask the viceroy 
to provide him with a ship for that purpose. He sent an envoy 
to the viceroy, forwarding at the same time some rubies and 
diamonds for sale. He prayed as a favour that permission 
might be granted him to build a ship on the river of Goa for his 
flight into Persia, he being persecuted by his father, Aurangzeb. 

He really wanted to build the ship, but also hoped to land, a 
fewT at a time, a large number of his men, and then, all of 
a sudden, to seize Goa. Knowing as I did the tricks of the 
Mahomedans, I advised the viceroy to take great care and 
find out how many men were disembarked, for they might 

1 Francois Martin. Director-General of the French East India Company at 
Pondicherry, was at SQrat from 1680 to 1686 — first, as second to Baron, and on 
his death in 1683 ^ Director. He returned to Pondicherry in 1686 (see article 
by P. Margry in ‘ Biographic Universelle,* Michaud, new edition). Damfin lies 
about fifty miles south of SUrat. 



262 OF KISG AURASGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDCSTAN 


cause damage to Goa before His Excellency could prevent 
them ; and truly Sambha jT’s intention was to get a number of 
men into the island. Then he meant to come in person to 
attack, after the men already landed in the island had occupied 
the best positions. Thus would he manage to accomplish his 
purpose. The viceroj' gave heed to my words, and he noticed 
that the next day a great number of men came from Sambha 
Ji s territory’ for work at the ship, but many fewer withdrew at 
night. Orders were therefore given that all must withdraw, 
and that the next day as many as came in the morning must go 
back at night. 

Nor did the Viceroy content himself with giving Akbar leave 
to build his ship ; he also made ready some presents to be sent 
to him. I held my tongue till I saw that these things were 
already prepared, when, out of the affection I bore to my fellow- 
Christians, I went to the viceroy. I said to him that to me 
it seemed that His Excellencj’ was not acting with sufficient 
caution. He intended to write to the Mogul (Aurangzeb), 
agreeing, at his request, to make war [207] on Sambha Ji ; 
while by these presents he acted as if he thought that great 
king to be of small account For, not content with allowing 
Akbar to build a ship, he was sending him presents. By this 
the Mogul would be angered, and would seek an opening for 
some attempt against Goa, because of the favour shown to his 
rebellious son. The viceroy was pleased to listen, and came 
to a stop, and did not send the presents. Meanwhile the ship 
was finished, and Akbar had it removed to the port of Vin- 
gorla,^ twelve leagues distant from Goa, and in the territory of 
Sambha Ji. 

Battle between Sambha Ji and the Viceroy of Goa, 

AND HOW Some Portuguese asserted I was a Traitor. 

Finding that by using the chance afforded by the matter of 
the ship he could not carry out his design, Sambha Ji sent to 
the viceroy tutored spies, who told him that in the fortress of 

^ Vingorla, in the Ratnagiri district, is a little to the north of Goa— say, 
thirty-three miles. The removal of the ship from Goa to Vingorla is confirmed 
by Onne, ' Historical Fragments,’ edition 1782, p. 179. 



PORTUGUESE DEFEAT AT PON DA 2^*3 

Ponda were great treasures. His object was to get the viceroj’ 
to leave Goa with a large force for the conquest of that fortress. 
Then he meant to cut off the Portuguese retreat and prevent 
their return, in this way making himself master of Goa. The 
facts became known to a French trader then in Rajapur,' and 
he wrote to me to warn the viceroy of Sambha jT’s purpose. 
He was coming down with his army. 

I told His Excellency, but he would not heed my words. 
He issued forth with eight hundred white soldiers and eight 
thousand Canarese.- He crossed with them to the other side of 
the river and began his campaign. With him went five pieces 
of heavy artillerj*. The men inside Ponda^ defended themselves 
until the arrival of Sambha Ji along with Akbar’s men. They 
attacked with great fury the viceroy’s army, and gave him as 
much to do as he could manage. His best troops were killed, 
and if he had not used wooden obstructions with which to im- 
pede the onset of the cavaliy, he would never have been able 
to get back to Goa, nor could he have made any defence. The 
rainy weather impeded the discharge of his matchlocks ; thus, 
coming on still closer, a trooper among the Rajputs dealt His 
Excellency [208] a sword-blow on the ribs. Retreating slowly, 
he reached the river bank w’ith great difficulty, and once more 
entered Goa. He recognised, although too late, that he had 
been misled. Great grief was caused in the city from the fruit- 
less loss of so many lives. 

In the interval Goa was governed by the archbishop, Dom 
Manoel de Souza de Menezes.^ There came a boat sent by the 

^ Apparently Dhunda RSjapur, close to Jinjlrah, is intended (see Grant-Duff, 
138). It is in lat. 18® 18', long. 73® 3' (Thornton, Sii), Sambha Ji’s troops were 
then besieging Jinjirah. 

^ F. C. Danvers, ii. 369, 370, copies Grant-Duff, 139, 140, verbatim, and the 
latter relies upon Orme, ‘Historical Fragments,* edition 1S05, 1 22-124. Orme 
says the Viceroy took the field in September, 16S3, and his camp having been 
surrounded by Sambha Ji, he had to force his way step by step back to Goa. 

Pondah, nine miles south-east by east from Goa (Thornton, ' Gazetteer,’ 773). 
Orme, 123, calls it thirty miles. The place had been taken from the Portuguese 
by Shiva Ji in 1675 (Grant-Duff, 119). 

* Manoel de Sousa e Menezes became Archbishop on September 20, 1681, and 
died on January 31, 1684 (M. Miillbauer, ‘ Geschichte der katholischen Missionen 
in Ost Indien,’ p. 365. Freiburg, 1852). 



264 OF KING A URAXCZEB, SIXTH KISG OF HISDCSTAX 


general of Aurangzeb’s fleet, which was on the watch to pre- 
vent Akbar leaving Vingorla in the ship he had built. It 
brought a message for the viceroy, urging him to make a 
valiant fight of it, and before very long he (Aurangzeb) would 
arrive to his assistance. But the archbishop would not listen 
to the envoy, arid gave the answer that he must go and deal 
direct with the viceroy. I knew this because I translated the 
letters, and I did not wish to forsake the [vicejroy at such a 
time, so that he might have no cause of complaint against me. 
I therefore demanded permission of his lordship, and with 
great difficulty he granted me a boat to travel in. We in Goa 
did not then know the miserable plight of the viceroy. 

I left, but the archbishop, I know not why, sent an order to 
the guards posted on the river to seize me. Thus, while I dis- 
bursed my coin to aid and ser\’e the Christians against the 
power of the Mogul, they made me out to be a traitor. They 
persuaded the archbishop that I was taking with me five 
hundred Shivajis Mahrattahs) to cut off the viceroy's 
retreat, and prevent his returning again to Goa. For this 
reason he directed my arrest. The captains of the guards 
knew quite well I was innocent, for when I reached them I had 
with me no one but a servant. In spite of this, as the orders 
were absolute, they civilly made me a prisoner without com- 
municating to me their orders, I made pretence of not recog- 
nising that the way they were treating me betrayed suspicion 
of my acts. At this time I saw the arrival of several boat-loads 
of dead and wounded, a proof that Sambha Ji had defeated 
the viceroy. 

But if I took as a joke this treatment of me by the arch- 
bishop, it w^as not really such. Nor did the envoy look upon 
the manner in which he had been received as any joke ; for 
wishing to make him out greater than he was, they placed him 
in danger of losing his head. They began to spread a rumour 
[209] that he was not an envoy, but the very Sambha Ji 
himself. This story was so much accepted that men were 
already in search of him to slay him. Such is the power of 
fear when it enters into people who are otherwise of good 
sense! When I saw what their purpose was, I did my very 



EVENTS AT GOA, 1683 


265 


best that they should not kill him, but only arrest him. I 
assured them he was not Sambha Jl, but a Mogul, as he really 
was. For if they had killed him, I, too, ran a very great risk 
of losing my life, and that for nothing else than tiydng to help 
His Excellency at the time the said envoy arrived. 

It pleased God that at last the viceroy should arrive, and 
he, too, was at first persuaded that the man was Sambha JT in 
person. But after I had spoken with him, I assured him that 
even if he were really Sambha Jl in person, no violence could 
be done by him, for I would keep close to him when the letters 
were presented. Thus I conducted the envoy into the presence 
of the viceroy, who was already in a fright. 

Then, taking myself the letters from the envoy’s hands, I 
presented them to His Excellency. Thereupon he recognised 
the great mistake which had held the whole island in perturba- 
tion. He (the envoy) had with him only two servants. 

Sambha Ji, under Pretext of an Embassy, tries to 

ASSASSINATE THE ViCEROY. 

But let US now return to Sambha Ji. He had missed his 
blow when he fought the viceroy, for if he had only occupied 
the river bank, it would have been easy for him to slaughter 
everybody, and equally easy to take Goa. All the same, he 
did not despair of success in his attempt ; for, after the defeat 
of the viceroy, he took possession of the lands of Salseite 
(Salsette) and Bardes, between which lies the island of Goa, 
and after stiff fighting, tried to disembark men on the island [of 
Goa]. But the Portuguese resisted valiantly, above all the 
Augustinian fathers, who were at a crossing against which 
Sambha Ji made his principal efforts.^ 

Thus, finding he had not carried out what he wanted to do, 
and seeing that by force [210] of arms he should not conquer, 
he adopted the way customary in Hindustan — ^that of deceit. 
He therefore made Akbar act as mediator and send in a letter 

^ For Salsett and Bardes, see map at the end of vol. ii. of F. C. Danvers’ 

' Portuguese in India. ' The Bardes district lies to the north, and that of Salsett 
to the south, of Goa. See farther on, ii. 214, the part taken by Frey Pedro, 
Augustinian, in the defence. 



266 OF KL\G AURAXGZEB, SIXTH KISG OF HIXDCSTAX 


to the viceroy. In it he said that, being on the point of leaving 
for Persia, as a friend of both sides, he wanted to restore peace 
and amity between Sambha Ji and the Portuguese. With 
this object would they send a trusty person capable of dealing 
with such a negotiation ? He would bring it to a conclusion to 
the satisfaction of both parties. 

The viceroy selected me for this business. On my side I 
recognised that I was a foreigner, so I took along with me one 
priest and one layman, both Portuguese, to bear testimony to 
my acts and words. I made declaration to the viceroy that 
they would never conduct me to Akbar, but to Sambha Jl instead. 
I questioned the viceroy as to what I should do in that case. 
He said to me that under no circumstances did he wish me 
to approach Sambha Jl. With this point determined on, I 
quitted Goa. 

Hardly had I arrived within Sambha Ji’s country when they 
wanted to carrj’ me to him and not to Akbar. Thereupon I 
declared that I would not go, that I would sooner lose my head 
than act against the orders I had received. Akbar learnt this, 
and dispatched Durga Das,^ as representing his person during 
the negotiation with Sambha JT. On these conditions I, too, 
attended, or else they would have carried me there by force. 

We reached the presence of Sambha JI, who received me 
with great politeness. During the conversation he made bitter 
complaint of the viceroy's declaring war against him in spite of 
the King of Portugal’s orders. The king had ordered him to 
maintain peace with his neighbours. Many other things against 
the viceroy did he say to me during this talk. It was on this 
occasion he told me that with his own sword he had decapi- 
tated his chief captains, owing to their disaffection. He showed 
me the swordr 

Finally, he gave me my leave to go, adding that, seeing the 
viceroy would not send him an envoy, he meant to be the first 
and send one to him, and so let him see how much he desired 

^ Durga Das» Rsthor, the chief guardian of the infant Ajit Singh, son of 
Rajah Jaswant Singh. 

* Possibly this was Bhaw^ni, the sword of his father, to which Grant- Duff 
alludes (p. 140). For the executions, see Grant-Duff, p, 136. 



MANUCCrS EMBASSY TO SAMBHA Jl 267 

to uphold peace with the Portuguese. Taking one of his officers 
by the hand, he said to me : * This is the man I mean to send ; 
he is the key of my treasure-house.’ Then, laying hold of my 
hand also, he made the man over to me, and said he was doing 
him (the viceroy) much honour, for the man was his chief 
favourite. He sent me away, handing me two handkerchiefs 
of gold thread, and in the evening the envoy came to visit me. 
He set forth [211] his pretensions, which were that he should 
land in the isle with one thousand, or at the least five hundred, 
men as his guard, taking also seven horses (as he said) to show 
his rank. We hammered away for a long time at this subject, 
he beseeching me earnestly to secure this honourable treatment 
for him from the viceroy. But I displayed total indifference, 
saying it lay with the viceroy to concede to him or not what he 
asked; at the same time I would lay his requests before His 
Excellency. But horses were not necessary, the fortress being 
quite near, nor could the horses climb to it. 

The reader must be made aware here of what the envoy’s 
intentions were. The first was to get with this large number 
of men into Goa, where there was not a large enough garrison 
to defend all the posts. Coming, thus attended, to pay his court 
to the viceroy, it would be very easy to carry out their object. 
For they would enter with the fixed intention of assassinating 
the viceroy, and consequently would come wearing concealed 
chain- mail. Having succeeded, some of them would jump on 
the horses, and, careering about, would strike terror into the 
inhabitants, and throw everything into disorder. Thus Sambha 
Jl would have time to land his force without any difficulty and 
capture defenceless Goa. 

I returned to Goa and reported to the viceroy what was going 
on, and of the probable intentions of Sambha jL For the time 
being he should not, I thought, give audience in the royal hall, 
but in the fortress of Dang! (Dangim),^ which was quite close 
to the sea. Strong guards should be posted so as to hinder the 
envoy from carrying out his plans. Although there was some 
difficulty in doing what I said, nevertheless, acknowledging 

^ Dangim is shown on the map of Goa territory inserted in Danvers, vol. ii. 
t lies about a mile east of Goa town. 



268 OF KISG AUKASGZEB, SIXTH KIXG OF HIXDUSTAX 


that I had some acquaintance with the tricks of people in 
Hindustan, the viceroy did as I advised. Thus I went back to 
tell the ambassador that he might come. I took with me no 
more than three boats, so that too many people might not 
come. But so many crowded in that our boat was in great 
danger of going to the bottom. I complained to the envoy of 
this carelessness, and he grew angrj’ ; for he saw that with so 
small a number he would not be able to carry out his project. 
He wanted to give up coming. But, encouraging him, I brought 
him to the above-mentioned fortress. Matters were disposed 
in such a way that not more than seven persons were able to 
enter with him. These were received by the viceroy with great 
pomp. 

The envoy’s design was unmasked during the audience [212] ; 
for he made no statement about terms of peace, stating that 
his coming was for nothing more than to know if the Portu- 
guese gentlemen really desired to make peace or not, and 
whether they would pay tribute to his prince. The viceroy 
replied that he wanted peace, but would not pay any tribute. 
The envoy answered that he would take this reply to his prince, 
and then took his leave, far from well-contented, not having 
been able to make himself a name by a piece of treachery 
assassination) ; for amongst them this mode of going to 
work is proof of great valour. 

Although peace negotiations were going on, there was no 
suspension of arms; for continuously Sambha Ji went on 
fighting at Goa with great vigour. In the course of these 
contests, as there were not many troops in the island, there 
was reason to fear that Sambha JI might land his soldiers 
there. The viceroy therefore sought someone who would go 
to the Mogul fleet, then off Vingorla, to request the admiral to 
sail with his ships till he was within sight of Goa. Thus some 
fear would be instilled into Sambha Jfs men then in Salsette 
and Bardes. But the principal thing was to get some one who 
would consent to go. For all they could do, they could not 
find any person willing to take upon himself to risk his life for 
the public benefit. Then, knowing the heartiness with which 
I had laboured to the utmost of my power, he asked me if I 



ASD TO THE MOGUL FLEET 269 

would perform this benefit on behalf of a city which found 
itself in such a sorry plight. 

I gave a favourable reply, and, as I was leaving Goa, Dom 
Rodrigo da Costa, ^ in command of the fleet, declared that I 
was on my way to destruction. God was pleased to show the 
care He had over my person, for one morning in the dark I 
found myself with my boat in the midst of thirty-seven galliotes- 
belonging to Sambha Ji. As soon as we discovered that the 
fleet was not that of the Moguls, but of Sambha Jl, we were 
very apprehensive, and already the master of the vessel and 
several seamen wanted to jump into the sea. But I laid hold 
of my matchlock and frightened them, saying that the first who 
moved was a dead man. If they set to work to row with all 
their strength, I would give them five hundred xerafins (asharfi, 
a gold coin) on arrival in Goa. This was in addition to several 
pieces of gold that I distributed among them on the spot- As 
the man who guided the helm was very skilful, we feigned to 
be part of that fleet until we had forged ahead of all the galliotes. 
Then, putting on a spurt, we drew away from our enemies, who 
began a chase in the hope of capturing us. 

Keeping on our course, we arrived at the Mogul fleet, and 
I carried out my instructions. But the commander replied 
that he could not come away from Vingorla for fear that Prince 
Akbar might escape. Thus it turned out that I had put my life 
in danger without doing any good. Nevertheless, I went back 
to Goa by another route, and there I reported the Mogul fleet 
to be already on its way to give assistance against Sambha Jl. 
This I did that all might recover heart and resolution and con- 
tinue the war with greater courage. 

Sambha Ji takes the Island of Santo Estevo from the 

Portuguese. 

A few days after my return to Goa a thing happened which 
placed the Portuguese in very great danger. The viceroy, as 

^ Dom Rodrigo da Costa, Captain-General of the fleet of galleons, succeeded 
the Conde de Alvor as Governor in December, i686, and died in June, 1690 
(Danvers, ii, 370). 

- Galliot, a kind of galley or war boat (see Yule, second edition, 361, 362). 



370 OF KISG AURASGZEB, SIXTH KISG OF HIXDCSTIS 


much from deficiency of men as anything else, had neglected to 
post any soldiers on a little island called Santo Estevao,^ where 
there was a castle armed with mortars. Sambha JI had spies 
everywhere. 

It was on the 25th November of some year long ago that the 
Portuguese had obtained possession of Goa. In memory’ of 
that conquest they built a little church called St. Catharine, 
which at this day is close to the hospital.- 

On that very’ date in the year 1683, at ten o’clock at night, 
Sambha Jl sent four thousand men at low tide to occupy the 
said fortress Santo Estevao). The soldiers entered it, and 
without any loss to themselves decapitated the whole of the 
garrison. As a signal that they had carried out their orders, 
they discharged several mortars to inform Sambha Jl and his 
army that they were masters of the place. A great uproar 
arose in Goa. 

The following day the viceroy, against the judgment of Dom 
Rodrigo da Costa, wished to reoccupy the place. Dom Rodrigo’s 
advice was to post tw’O pieces of artillery at the entry of a bridge 
to prevent any sally, meanwhile to patrol with small boats and 
stop any attempt to take Goa. This would have been quite 
easily done, whereby those within it (Santo Estevao) would have 
been obliged to surrender. But the viceroy, confident in his 
ow’n judgment, preferred to reinforce the place directly with 
some men. He selected some [214] one hundred and fifty 
soldiers, shouting in a loud voice that anyone who meant to 
come should follow’ him. He went as far as the castle walls 
and marched round them, during which Sambha Jl’s troops 
slew a great many. Some reinforcements arrived, and by good 
luck the viceroy and Dom Rodrigo were able to reach their 
boats and take to flight, otherwise they w’ould certainly have 
been killed like the rest. 

Their getting time enough to retire was due to the conduct 

1 For Santo Estevao, see the map in Danvers, vol. ii. It lies about two miles 
north-east of Goa. 

2 November 25 is the Festival of St. Catherine, Virgin. The church is marked 
on the map in Danvers. voL i., p. 25S ; it was at the north-west comer of the 
town (see also Pyrard de Laval, edition Gray, ii. 54). The chapel is No. 10 on 
Fonseca’s map (‘ Historical Sketch of Goa,’ 1878). 



SA^fBHA yrs ATTEMPT ON GOA 


271 


of a friar, one Frey Pedro de Sylveira, an Augustinian and a great 
friend of mine, he who had defended the crossing, as I have said 
{ante, IL 209). Seeing that the viceroy was in great peril, he 
exerted himself to make up a fictitious body of troops close to 
the bridge. He gathered caffres (African slaves), serving men, 
and scullions, whom he ordered to plunder a neighbouring open 
field of its sugar-cane. They were all to hold a sugar-cane at 
their side, standing all in a row, and making a noise with a few 
matchlocks. Thus they stood drawn up in front of the enemy, 
who, on beholding them, imagined that they were reinforcements 
on the way. They, too, called a halt, and relinquished pursuit 
of the viceroy. The latter had thus time to re-embark, but 
many men stuck fast in the mud, and w’ere killed by the enemy’s 
arrows or bullets ; others were drowned. The viceroy, on 
embarking, took his matchlock and shot his horse to prevent 
its falling into the hands of the enemy, and Dom Rodrigo did 
the same to his. On this occasion the viceroy came back with 
a slight bullet wound in the left arm. 

Sambha Ji’s soldiers retained the island and were very near 
to Goa. They gave so much trouble to the city that the 
viceroy resolved to send an embassy to the said prince to see 
if he could obtain a peace, and I was obliged to go a second 
time to Sambha Ji. But on my arrival I found a spy, then in 
his service, who gave me a faithful report of the latest news. 
He told me that the army of Shah ‘Alam was already quite 
close. This was enough to decide me not to pursue my nego- 
tiation; therefore I determined to retrace my steps, and to 
advise the viceroy that the deliverance of Goa was at hand 
with the aid of Shah 'Alam. I stayed in Goa, in order after- 
wards to visit that prince and negotiate as soon as he arrived. 
In my place they sent to Sambha Jl Manoel Saraiva and an 
Augustinian father. But the fighting still went on with great 
energy. Well was it for the Portuguese that Sambha Ji never 
knew exactly how few [215] men there were in the island. If 
he had known, he could have carried out his scheme in its 
entirety. 

I do not know if it was from carelessness, or from real want 
of soldiers, that the vessels which were on guard had not more 



272 OF KIXG AURASGZEB, SIXTH KIXG OF HIXDCSTlX 

than seven or eight men to each vessel. I know the fact because 
one night the viceroy invited me to go with him in his boat on 
his rounds, to see if the officers were doing their dutj-. We 
found them nearly all asleep, and instead of challenging us, it 
was necessary for us to accost them to find out whether there 
was anyone in the vessel or not. Not aware that it was the 
\-iceroy who was passing, they gave us ill-conditioned replies, 
and we ascertained that there was not a single officer in the ships. 
But what was my astonishment, on reaching the fort opposite 
the bar at the entrance to the river, to find we had to beat at 
the door for a long time, making much noise, without getting 
any response. Finally came a soldier, who replied to us by 
stating there were only eleven men. Yet this fort was of the 
greatest importance, and Sambha Ji had onlj’ to take it to get 
possession of Goa without any farther difficulty. 

The viceroy was angry at getting such a reply, and asked 
why the men of the garrison had not answered. The soldier 
said that they could not answer, for there was no one, only 
a boy who tended the goats. These were the preparations that 
we found in the ships and at that fort at a time when Sambha JI 
was doing all he could to capture a city that had ever remained 
the glory of the Portuguese ! From this the reader may judge 
how little these gentlemen thought of the courage of veteran 
soldiers such as those of Sambha Ji ; or else, overconfident in 
themselves, they imagined that their mere name would bar the 
way to the enemy, or it may be that in reality there were no 
troops available. In any case, those they had in their service 
could not have cared much whether they lived under the rule 
of the Portugal king or that of Sambha Jl. 


Arrival of Shah ‘Alam close to Goa, and the Embassy 
TO THE Viceroy. 

Aurangzeb received the reply of the Goa viceroy, in which 
he promised to allow free passage up the river to his fleet 
coming from Surat with supplies for the army of his son, Shah 
'Alam. The king ordered that prince to march with forty-five 
thousand horsemen in the direction of Goa, traversing the 



SHAH ^ALAM NEAR GOA 


273 


kingdom of Bljapur. His instructions were to capture the 
island of Goa by treacher>% thus becoming able thereafter to 
invade easily the territories of Sambha JT. 

On this march Shah *AIam took several of Sambha Jl’s forts, 
and arrived near Goa in time to deliver the island from the 
hands of that prince. It was already in great danger. Sambha 
Ji made every possible exertion to take it before Shah ‘Alam 
arrived, but it did not happen according to his desire. Thus, 
on the arrival of the Mogul fleet, he was obliged to decamp ; 
but before he disappeared he ordered the mortars in Santo 
Estevao to be charged, with the idea of bursting them, seeing 
that he could not carry them away. But in this he did not 
succeed, for only one of them burst ; then, spiking the rest, he 
fled. 

As soon as Shah ^Alam arrived, he sent an envoy to the 
viceroy as far as the river bank. On learning this, His 
Excellency ordered me to go and speak to this envoy, who 
was the brother of Sec Mahamed (She^ Muhammad). I 
went to the spot, and while afar off I saluted him in the 
European fashion. But he, remaining seated in his palanquin, 
paid little or no heed to me, and, ignoring the politeness 
customary in India, which is to raise the hand to the head, he 
placed it on his breast, as usual among the Persians. This 
made me angiy, and I declined to advance any farther. His 
example was not followed by the slaves and servants of Shah 
‘Alam ; they knew how anxious their master was to retain me 
at his court. They all bowed to me with great respect. 

I did not neglect to say in a loud voice what seemed to me 
necessary against such a messenger, and, turning my back, 
cheerfully accosted my friends. All the same, I did not lose 
the words said by the envoy. They amounted to nothing 
more than that the Portuguese [217] were under great obliga- 
tions to Shah ‘Alam, and they ought to commence at once to 
count out the millions they would have to give for having been 
delivered from Sambha Jl. Then spies went off to Shah ‘Alam 
and told him that the viceroy had sent me to treat with the 
ambassador, and that the latter had failed to render me due 
honour. 

VOL. II. 18 



274 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDCSTAN 


The prince was much put out, and in that man’s place sent 
my friend, called Miraxam (Mir A‘zam),^ w’ith orders to con- 
ciliate me in every way. On his reaching the river bank I 
advanced to meet him, but he, having received different in- 
structions from the first man, rose to his feet when he saw me, 
and coming towards me, embraced me. He told me the 
prince’s orders were that he was to do whatever I might 
suggest, as he had no knowledge of the viceroy. Then he 
delivered to me a letter sent to me by the prince. In it he 
begged me to come to him, as he greatly desired to speak to 
me, and he trusted I would not refuse, having eaten the salt of 
his house. 

I did not wish to take him (the envoy) into Goa, so I 
escorted him to a little island called Ilha de Manoel de Mota. 
There I regaled him during the night. On the day following 
I conducted him to the viceroy, who was in the fortress of 
Santiago,- near the mainland. There he presented Shah 
‘Alam’s letter. It began by requesting that Hakim Niculao, 
his old serv’ant, should be sent to him. As soon as he arrived 
they would arrange things to the satisfaction of both sides. 
Next it stated how, in conformity with the letter of the viceroy 
sent to the great Aurang^eb, permission was given for the entry 
into the river of the ships carrying supplies for the army sent 
against Sambha Jl. Yet the fleet in question had not arrived. 
Fulfilment of the promise was now requested. 

The viceroy replied that he would certainly carry out what 
he had promised, but the route taken must be by the other 
river, that of Bardes, not by that of Goa. But the envoy 
persisted in his demand that they wanted to pass through the 
river of Goa, as had been promised to His Majesty. Finally, 
the viceroy answered that I would go to His Highness, and 
that there matters would be settled. 

During the discussion the king’s fleet, which was at the 

' Or M!r HSshim. 

2 There is a Santiago shown on the map of Goa territory in Danvers, vol. ii. ; 
it lies about two miles east of Goa town towards the mainland. It is also on 
Fonseca’s map, and is mentioned by P3rrard de Laval, ii. 54, edition A. Gray. 
Manoel de Mota, or Acado Island (Fonseca, p. 4), is apparently the Acoro of his 
map, lying between San EstevaO and Ilha de Piedade. 



THE MOGUL FLEET OFF GOA 


275 


harbour mouth, continued to advance. When a report of this 
reached the viceroy, I said to Dom Rodrigo da Costa that now 
was the time for a display of courage and energy. Therefore, 
without any delay, the fleet ought to be fired upon. He 
hurried to the spot, where he found that, by the carelessness 
of the commandant of Aguada [218],^ some live-and-twenty 
galliots had already entered, and were close to the Fort of the 
Kings. When he arrived he ordered at once the discharge of 
three loaded cannon, to intimidate them and cause their retire- 
ment. They replied that they were friends, and had come 
under protection of the viceroy’s promise; they should there- 
fore stop firing, as that was not the way to receive friends. 

When the Aguada fort became aware that the Fort of the 
Kings declined to allow a passage, it, too, fired several times, in 
order to prevent the remainder of the fleet which was following 
from completing its purpose. Thus was Goa saved this time, 
for without a doubt it would have been lost had the fleet 
entered. The twenty-five galliots which were already inside 
took refuge behind the Fort of the Kings in a river which is 
called Nelur.*^ Here they remained until the receipt of fresh 
orders from Shah ^\lam. They plundered along the shore, 
and carried off any goods and women or girls found there. 

My Visit to Shah ‘ 5 lam. 

At nightfall I issued from Goa with the envoy in order to 
go to the encampment of Shah ‘Alam.^ When vre disembarked, 
the spies informed us that the enemy were in sight. Mir A'zam 
feared some harm to my person, and ordered twenty horsemen 
to accompany me as far as the camp. He stopped behind 
with thirty horsemen. In this way I reached the camp, where, 
being knowm, many greeted me with loud voices. I cannot 
express the affection with which they came to embrace me* 

^ Aguada, a fort on the sea coast, at the north point of the bay, and outside 
Goa River (see map in Danvers, vol, ii.). Manucci’s Fort of the Kings is 
apparently identical with that of Reis Magos (Fonseca, p. 44). It lies about 
two miles to the north-east of Aguada. 

Nerul, about half a mile north-east of Aguada, on a small river, the mouth 
of which lies between Aguada and Reis Magos. 

* The subject of this embassy is returned to in Part III., fol. 196. 

18 — a 



276 OF KING AURASGZEB, SIXTH KIXG OF HIXDCSTAS 


If the reader could only know the manner in which I had 
behaved to all the officials and ministers, he would not be 
surprised that they received me with as much love as if I 
had been one of their relations. 

1 proceeded to the prince’s tents, and there the eunuchs, 
who knew how eagerly the prince and the princess were 
looking for me, came forward to receive me. The chief 
eunuch told me that Shah ‘Alam had ordered that at whatever 
hour I might arrive he should be forthwith informed ; he had 
also directed the whole army to be in readiness the next 
morning. For, if I did not arrive, he meant to send his troops 
across the river by swimming it. I said to the man that the 
prince should not be roused ; it was already midnight, and I 
could wait, nor was it right that a tired prince should be 
woke on account of one of his [219] servants. 

When the prince got up in the morning, they reported my 
arrival. He was more anxious for this than for the taking of 
Goa, and \vas now content. He issued orders for his soldiers 
to return to their quarters, as he no longer meant to take 
any action. Next, he sent word inside to the princesses and 
princes that I had come, and called them all together with 
great glee, and ordered a letter to be written to his mother, 
Nabab Baegi (Nawab Bae Ji),^ telling how he had now caught 
me. For this queen had complained bitterly about his giving 
me leave of absence. She called me within the pardah, where 
I first made my bow as a European, and then did obeisance 
in the court fashion. 

She was much amused at seeing me in European costume, 
my beard shaved off, and wearing a peruke. As the princess 
had not been used to seeing me in such a get-up, she asked 
me what drugs I took to return to youth. Then, jokingly, I 
gave her my reasons, and let her understand that I did not 
want to serve any more, because the officials did not carry 
out the promises made to me by His Highness. The prince 

1 Nawab Bae (Rahmat-un-nis^) was the daughter of Rajah Raju. of Rajauri 
in Kashmir. She died at Dihli in 1102 H. (1690-91). It was through her that 
Shah ‘*llam claimed descent from the Prophet (see the • Ma,feir-i-‘Alamgiri,’ and 
the ^ Baliadur Shah Namah ' oi DSnishmand iThan (A*li). 



MANUCCI VISITS SHAH ^ALAM 


277 


replied that I ought not to trouble myself about this ; I had 
only to apply to him on the occurrence of any difi&cult}^ and 
without fail he would ensure me whatever satisfaction I could 
desire. Laughing at the liberty I was taking, I told him that 
I could no more rely on His Highness than on the rest, for 
many times he had broken his promises. Then he brought 
forward his heir, Sultan Mazudin (Mu‘izz-ud-dm),i as security, 
and added one hundred rupees a month to my former pay- 
He ordered my pay to be disbursed for the whole time of my 
absence from his court. In addition, he promised to maintain 
four horses to carry my baggage and eight men to carry my 
palanquin, with my food daily sent from his table. 

After this we entered upon a conversation over the differences 
with the viceroy. As I was obliged, in my capacity of envoy 
from the viceroy, to take the part of the Portuguese gentlemen, 
I said to His Highness that the viceroy could not on any 
conditions allow the royal fleet to come through the river of 
Goa, such being the orders of the King of Portugal. If His 
Excellency disobeyed such orders, his head would be in great 
danger. 

Shah ‘xllam persisted that at least the galliots already in 
the river, behind the Fort of the Kings, should continue their 
course. He assigned as reason that, other ships being allowed 
to pass, they might just as well allow the said galliots to go 
up, since they were already inside. I retorted that other ships 
allowed to pass were merchantmen, as to w^hich there was 
no prohibition. But in respect of His Highness’s ships and 
those of other crowns, there was a rigorous [220] order not 
to let them pass. If the viceroy in his letter to Aurangzeb 
had promised a passage, that must be understood not of the 
Goa River, but of the lands belonging to the Portuguese. He 
did not decline to comply, but offered a passage through other 
rivers. To show better to His Highness that the viceroy 
maintained friendship with His Highness and with his father, 

* Mu*izz ud-dm, afterwards Emperor under the title of Jahandar Shah, bom 
on May 10, 1661, N.S. ; executed on February ii, 1713, N.S. The objection is 
quite in character, for Shah ‘Alam was very profuse in promises, and never paid 
anybody. 



278 OF KINGZAURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HlNDCSTlN 


he would provide men to guide the vessels to any port His 
Highness wished. 

This proposal so much approved itself to Shah ^\lam that 
he was willing to order the galliots already inside to go out 
again. He sent with me people to carry this order to the 
captain-general of the fleet; and I left with him other men 
to act as guides in conducting him by land to the mouth of 
the river of Bardes. 

To conclude the story, before giving me my leave, he sent 
to me an exquisite sar&pd (set of robes) and a horse. I was 
made to promise that I would return to him next day at two 
o’clock in the afternoon. I took with me the men carrying 
to the captain-general of the fleet the orders to turn back and 
proceed to meet the prince by way of the Bardes River. 

I went to Goa and recounted to the viceroy what had 
happened. He was considerably gratified at the way I had 
arranged matters, and at deliverance from the peril he had been 
in of losing the island. I urged him to give the ambassadors 
their dismissal with the presents he meant to send to His 
Highness. In the morning I did my very best to be sent off 
early, in order to fulfil my promise to reach His Highness at 
two o’clock in the afternoon. But His Excellency wanted me 
to carry a letter to the prince, and kept me waiting longer than 
was necessary. For this reason the prince, finding I did not 
arrive at the appointed hour, ordered Bardes to be plundered, 
and thereby force the viceroy to send me at once. 

His Highness had ordered that as soon as ever they perceived 
me approaching, they were to stop further plundering. The 
sentries, who recognised me, shouted and ran about to make 
the soldiers give over, but that did not help the poor wretches 
already stripped bare. I reached the prince, and was well 
received; but I made somewhat of a remonstrance at the 
irregularity of the soldiers plundering Bardes, when we were 
friends. The prince smiled and said to me, ‘ It would have 
been still worse for them if you had not appeared.’ There we 
halted for several days, until the supplies for the army had been 
landed. It is impossible for me to detail the gifts I received 
from all the court, and even from the princesses and sons of 



SHAH ^ALAM MARCHES FROM GOA 


279 


Shah ‘Alam. The latter was aware that I was serving him 
reluctantly, and thus instigated these others to propitiate 
me [221]. 

Flight of Akbar into Persia. 

In this interval Akbar fled from Vingorla to Rajapur;^ he 
could not make his escape in the vessel he had prepared, for the 
royal fleet had burnt it. At Rajapur, with the help of some 
French merchants there, he acquired means of flight, and 
reached Persia, where he was received in state by Xaasoliman 
(Shah Sulaiman),^ son of Shah ^Abbas. Great gifts were con- 
ferred on him, but he was not permitted to leave the court. 
There he dwelt till the death of that king. I shall have to speak 
hereafter (IL 253) of how this prince once entered the Mogul 
realm in the days of Xaa Houcem (Shah Husain), ^ son of the then 
existing King of Persia, and caused a certain amount of appre- 
hension. 

When Aurangzeb knew that his son had reached Persia, 
where he was favoured by King Sulaiman, who gave him daily 
three hundred patacas^ for expenses, he wrote a letter to the 
following effect: know from trustworthy reports that the 

rebel Akbar is with you. Thus, at sight of this, forward him 
to me in chains. If you do not act as I command you I will 
chastise you severely, as I did Dara.’ The wazlr^ Asad il^an,* 
after having sealed the letter, laid it before the king, saying : 
^ Here is the letter, in conformity with your Majesty's com- 
mands ; now you can nominate the person who is to take it ; as 
for the answer, I know not who will bring it.’ Thereby he 
conveyed to the king that he who carried the letter would 
be beheaded, and King Sulaiman would march in person against 
India. On hearing this opinion, Aurangzeb said some evasive 
words, but the letter in question was never dispatched. 

We went to Vingorla, and the prince captured that place 

^ For Rajapur, see ante; it is near Jinjirab. 

^ SulaimSn, Safawi, succeeded in 1667, followed by Husain, z694> 

1722 (S. L, Poole, ‘ Mohammadan Dynasties,' 259). 

^ Elsewhere the author tells us the pataca was equal to two rupees. 

^ Muhammad Ibrahim, Qaramanlu, entitled A^-ud-daulah, Jamdat-ul-Mulk, 
Asad Khan, became wazir in 1086 H, {1675-76). He died in 1129 H, (1716-17), 



28 o of KIXG AURAXGZEB, sixth king of HINDUSTAN 


easily, seeing that nearly everybody took to flight. The fleet 
continued to accompany us. After a few days the Portuguese 
ambassadors arrived; they were Joao Antunes Portugal and 
Manoel de Santo Pinto. Thej^ brought some showy presents, 
and lengths of ornamented China cloth, some lovely branches 
of coral, and six small pieces of artillery, with other objects, the 
whole being worth a good amount. 

They were well received, Siud sardpa (sets of robes) were ordered 
for each of them, in addition to two thousand rupees. For the 
viceroy there were given a caparisoned horse, a dagger mounted 
with precious stones, a little bottle of essence of roses, and an 
honourable formdo (Jarman, or rescript ?) [222]. 

It should be noted here that at the presentation of these 
ambassadors I did not act as interpreter, but some other 
European. In reading out the conditions he succeeded in 
doing a piece of bad work for the Portuguese. For in one 
paragraph the viceroy desired Shah ‘Alam either to give him 
eight hundred horses, or permit him to buy them in the camp. 
The European stated as the viceroy’s proposal that, if the 
prince gave him eight hundred horses he would consider 
himself a subject. This was as much as to say that he would 
place Goa in the prince’s hands. When I heard this, I prayed 
the royal scribe to stop writing, for the interpreter did not 
understand the viceroy’s proposal. All he said was, that being 
in want of eight hundred horses to continue the campaign 
against Sambha Ji, he asked for these eight hundred horses ; 
and should His Highness decline to give them, he prayed leave 
to buy them in his camp. The interpreter w^as angered, but I 
judged it necessary on such an occasion to speak up, to defend 
truth, and protect Goa from a pretext under cover of which 
Aurangzeb would proceed to occupy that island. 

In the evening of the same day I encountered She^ Muham- 
mad at the entrance of the prince’s tents. He is the man 
who had gone first as envoy from Aurangzeb to the viceroy 
(ante, IL 204), and had promised Aurangzeb to make over Goa 
to Shah ‘Alam. He complained to me, telling me it was not 
for me to intervene in the royal affairs, nor was it my business 
to act as an agent for the Portuguese. In time we began to 



MASUCCI MADE A KNIGHT OF SANT lAGO 281 

raise our voices, so that the prince heard the altercation and 
asked the cause, and who were the men making so much noise. 
Then they told him how Hakim NiculSo and She^ Muhammad 
were shouting at each other over the pending negotiations. 
The prince, who did not want any violence, sent word to Shekh 
Muhammad to go away and not open his mouth on such affairs. 
As for me, he called me inside, reassured me, and gave me his 
word that he would not touch the Portuguese. Of a certainty, 
had he listened to Shekh Muhammad, he must have taken Goa, 
for that man was very familiar with the ground, being a native 
of those parts. 

Manoel de Santo Pinto then returned to the viceroy, and 
reported to him the above two affairs. On this account the 
the viceroy sent me, through him, the proposition that I should 
accept either the knighthood of Sant* lago, or a village yielding 
annually a thousand xerafins (ashrafi)} I did not w^ant to accept 
one or the other, but Manoel de Santo Pinto pressed the 
accepting of one of the offers [223], as it would affront the 
viceroy if I refused. I therefore accepted the knighthood of 
Sant’ lago, which he forthwith conferred on me, together with 
the letters patent, in which are set forth the two particular 
services aforesaid which I rendered to the crown of Portugal, 
as may be seen from the following copy of that patent : 

‘ Dom Pedro, by the Grace of God, Prince of Portugal and 
of the Algarves,^ on this and that side of the sea in Africa, 
of Guinea, and of the conquered commercial navigation of 
Ethiopia, Arabia, Persia, and India, et cetera; As regent and 
successor, and ruler of the said realms and lordships, and 
governor and perpetual administrator, as I am, of the Master- 
ship and Knighthood of the three Military orders : 

* Be it known to all beholding this Patent, that having regard 
to the services done by Niculao Manuchy in our Indian 

^ Yule, 974, says the xerafin is a silver coin current at Goa, in value somewhat 
less than is. 6d. ; it varied from 300 to 360 reis of Portuguese money. But surely 
Manuccx uses it here for the gold asJimfi of Northern India, worth los, or iis. 
£75 a* year would not be a reward to boast of; one of over £500 a year 
would be. 

- Algarve, the southernmost province of Portugal, said by Yule, 595, to be 
from ^arb (Arabic). ‘ the west.’ 



282 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDCSTAN 


dominions on various occasions arising in our service; by 
translating the letters written by the Mogul King to the Count, 
our viceroy in the said Dominions; and by being present during 
the conferences with his ambassador, She^ Muhammad, upon 
the matters under negotiation; subsequently, upon the approach 
of the prince Muhammad Mu^azzam, Shah ‘Alam, eldest son 
of the said king, with his army, to the \icinity of the said 
Dominions, by accompanying the envoy that the said Count, 
our viceroy, sent to the said Prince ; and by going more than 
once to the said army on various matters of great importance 
appertaining to the said Dominions. Wherein the said Niculao 
Manuchy conducted himself with great fidelity and zeal in our 
service ; from which we anticipate he will act in the same way 
from now henceforth. 

* For all these reasons he is worthy of every honour and 
favour, and to prove to the said Prince the esteem in which 
we hold his person ; We hold it expedient to make a grant to 
the said Niculao Manuchi of the vestment of the order of Sao 
Tiago which he can wear on his breast like a true knight, for 
which he will be recognised, and respected as such, enjoying all 
the honours and privileges thereto appertaining. 

‘Wherefore I order that this patent now issued be made 
over to him, that it be carried out and observed in its entirety, 
as therein set forth, and that it be sealed with the seal bearing 
the Royal Arms of the Crown of Portugal. Our Lord the 
Prince issues it through Francisco de Tavora, Count of Alvor, 
one of His Councillors of State, Viceroy and Captain-General 
of India, Executed by the Custodian Souza Moreira in Goa 
[224] the twenty and ninth of January of one thousand six 
hundred and eighty-four. 

‘ Ordered to be recorded. 

‘ The Secretary, 

‘ Luis Gonsalves Cota. 

1 SEAL. ‘ Count of Alvor. 


‘ Luis Gonsalves Cota.’ 



MAKUCCI ATTEMPTS TO LEAVE MOGULS 


283 


' Patent by which Your Highness is pleased to grant to 
Niculao Manuchy the vestment of the Order of Sa6 Thiago, 
to be borne on his breast as a true knight enjoying all the 
honours and privileges pertaining thereto, as is above declared, 

‘ Verified by Your Highness. 


‘ Registered in the Book of Grants in the State Secretariat 
on page twenty-nine.^ 


' Luis Gonsalves Cota.’ 


I Seek Means of Flight, but Fail. 

I did not wish to continue in the service of Shah ‘Alam, for I 
did not feel happy living among Mahomedans. I saw that these 
campaigns would not soon come to an end, and thus I should 
be forced to wander here and there and everywhere with the 
prince’s camp. I took my measures for flight, as was my 
intention. The first thing I did was to pray the ambassador 
from the Portuguese to wait for me with his galliot (armed 
boat). For when the prince started to march with his army 
I meant to get back to Goa with him (the envoy). He gave 
me his word that he would await me. Then I resolved to 
return the two thousand rupees given me by Shah ‘Alam to 
enable me to march with the army. I did not want it said of 
me that Hakim Niculao fled after having received two thousand 
rupees. So I took them to Sultan Mu‘izz-ud-dln, Shah ‘Alam’s 
heir, and asked him to consent to holding the said two thousand 
rupees, as I had no place to put them. He ordered his eunuch 
to take charge of them. 

I waited until the prince had set out, and then I made off, 

’ My friend Mr. J. Batalha-Reis, M.V.O., Portuguese Consul-General and 
Commercial Attache in London, thinks this document is genuine. The three 
military Orders of Sant’ lago, Christ, and Avis (or St, Benedict), were still in the 
seventeenth century of high standing, and only given to nobles or for important 
services. He thinks the document was actually made out in Goa by the Viceroy 
acting for the King, From 1667 to 1683 King Alfonso VI. was held to be mad, 
and his brother, Dom Pedro, was Regent. The King died on September 12, 
1683, when the Regent became King as Pedro II. But this fact could only be 
known in India some months later, and the wording of the Patent is thus 
accounted for. 



284 OF KL\G AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HJSDCSTIN 


hoping to catch up the ambassador and his boat. But he had 
gone off to feast himself in the Dutch factor}’, and thus the 
attempt failed. When the prince knew of it, he fell into a 
great rage at my attempted flight, and ordered his foster- 
brother, Mir Muhammad, to whose charge he had committed 
me, to go off in search of me, and not to come back to 
his presence until he brought me with him. He sent an 
order to the commander of the fleet to proceed in search 
of me and carrj’ me off by force or persuasion. For he 
declared unconditionally that he meant to keep me in his 
service. 

But he knew I was no lover of violence, so he sent to the sea- 
shore a caparisoned horse for me to ride, and an elephant, 
along with five hundred horsemen to escort me. This was all 
to do me great honour, but they were to seize me if they came 
across me. 

I was much affected when I did not find the ambassador in 
the boat. While I was waiting for him, I felt happy at 
having got away from the camp. Then the sentries re- 
ported to us how a galliot belonging to the Mahomedans 
was approaching. Putting my head to the window, I saw 
that it was Mir Muhammad, and thereby my courage at once 
evaporated. 

He came aboard the envoy’s boat, and earnestly entreated 
me to save his life ; for the prince would never see him until 
I went back to the camp and spoke with His Highness, who 
was waiting for me. While we were still in talk, the sentry 
said that all the Mahomedan army had come from Vingorla. 
Thus I lost all hope of being able to flee, and, entering Mir 
Muhammad’s galliot, we w’ent off to find the prince, who had 
already gone four leagues farther off. The commander of the fleet 
notified my arrival to the prince. But o\\ing to the land route 
being closed by the enemy, who were plundering in all directions, 
thus causing great risk of the elephant’s capture, which would 
be a disgrace ; he ordered them to embark the horses and the 
troopers told off to escort me, while the elephant was put 
aboard some other vessel. Thus we all went to a port distant 
two days from Vingorla, where the prince had gone to destroy 



SHAH ^ALAM IN THE KONKAN 285 

a temple known as the White Pagoda, or of the Virgins.^ It 
was sent into the air by gunpowder. 

The prince was pleased and happy at my return. Remon- 
strating lovingly with me, he said he did not know what was to 
happen to me. For he saw that I had no love for him or for 
his family. Other Farangis would adopt any and every method 
to find a prince who had for them a mere fraction of the interest 
he displayed in me. I replied that I fully admitted the love 
with which His Highness was pleased to favour me ; but my 
expenses were heavy, nor did I deserve less pay than that given 
to the other physicians. Thus I could not continue to serve 
him- Besides this, his ministers and the officials made me wait 
a very long time for the little His Highness gave me. In this 
way while in his service I was expending my patrimony with- 
out benefit and with nothing but distress. 

Before putting faith in this speech of mine, it is necessary 
for the reader to know my temperament, and he should in 
addition know the wonderful cures I had effected among the 
Mahomedans. Well might I talk thus, for I neither sought 
for, nor was I in need of, the prince’s pay, and thoroughly con- 
tent should I have been had he grown angry and said, ^ Be off 
with you !’ But he, instead of getting angry and expelling me, 
ordered, in my hearing, a guard of horse and foot to be put 
upon me, as he did not want me to escape again. Seeing thus 
how determined he was, I said I could not follow him, not 

1 I have failed to trace this place, but I think that probably it is identical with 
the * Pagode ' marked on the Sieur Sanson’s Map of India (1652), of which a 
tracing has kindly been sent me by Mr. W. Foster, of the India Office ; it can 
also be seen in Baffin’s Map of 1619, in Mr. Foster's * Sir Thomas Roe,* vol. ii. It 
is placed between Kharepatan on the north and Banda on the south, both of which 
can be seen on Plate XXXIV. in Constable’s ‘ Hand Atlas.* An alternative, and 
perhaps preferable, suggestion is made by Dr. O. Codrington. He thinks the 
place intended must be Malwan (including the Mahrattah fort of Sindhudrtig), 
on the coast, some fifteen to twenty miles to the north of Vingorla, As it was a 
Mahrattah possession, and much reverenced by them, Sindhudrug was the sort 
of place the Mahomedan invader would endeavour to destroy. The White 
Pagoda may have stood near Malwan, where there are still Hindu temples of 
note (see ‘Bombay Gazetteer,’ x, 348, Ratnagiri District). On the map in 
Baldceus’ * Coromandel’ (first published in 1672), ‘ Pagoda ’ is shown opposite a 
creek, between Wingerla (Vingorla) on the south and Coropatan (Kharepatan) on 
the north (see Churchill, * Voyages,’ ed. 1745, vol. iii.). 



286 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDCSTAN 


having the necessary equipment ; all my baggage was in Goa. 
On this account I prayed leave to visit Goa to fetch my things, 
and bid farewell to my relations. I pledged my word to come 
back within the term of seven days. 

He was reluctant to give me this leave, but in the end said 
he would grant it if I swore to come back again. I swore after 
the manner of Hindustan — that is, by the feet of His Highness 
— I would appear again. But he refused this oath, and called 
upon me to swear by the name of the Messiah, and that then 
he would place faith in my words and permit me to quit the 
royal camp. Finding he required this of me, I swore by the 
terrible, venerable, and admirable name of Jesus that I would 
be faithful to my promise. Then he granted me the leave, and 
conferred on me another set of robes (sardpa). 

Though thus obliged to abandon Goa, which I had wished to 
serve to the utmost of my power, I resolved to seize the occasion 
for alleviating the great necessity from which it was then suffer- 
ing. There was a famine from want of [227] supplies, especially 
of wheat, of which there was none in Goa, not even enough 
to prepare the host. I asked the prince to let me have a cargo 
of wheat, his army being fully supplied. It was to be delivered 
at Goa on the account of the merchants, for I wished to confer 
this benefit on my intimates by way of a parting gift. My peti- 
tion was acceded to, and embarking on the same vessel, I went 
to Goa, where the Portuguese were much pleased at the benefit 
I had gained for them from the prince, and the merchants 
acquired their profit. After two days I took leave of the viceroy 
and my firiends, and returned to the royal camp, where the prince 
awaited me with great eagerness. 

When I arrived I learnt that the prince was already prepared 
for the march, having completed the destruction of the White 
Pagoda and other edifices belonging to Sambha Jl. We took 
the road for Bardes once more, halting on the bank of that 
river. Shah *Alam had given orders that everyone caught 
entering or leaving the camp at night should be beheaded with- 
out fail. This was to frighten the spies and hinder them from 
coming to pry about in the camp. It happened that they caught 
among others some Canarese who had come from Goa to sell fruit 



A DISASTROUS MARCH THROUGH THE GHATS 


287 


butter, et cetera, in the camp. Already they were on their way, 
early in the morning, to be beheaded, when my servants, hearing 
of this, informed me of the miserable plight of these Canarese. 
I therefore hurried to the prince, who was already on the march, 
and besought him for an order to release my people, who had 
carried me from Goa. He smiled and directed the release of 
the men for whom I had petitioned. Thus some men were 
released whom I had recognised to be Christians. 

After this we marched and climbed a mountain called Ramgat 
(? Ramghat),^ a league and a half of ascent. Here Sambha JT 
might have killed the whole of us, for it was a place difficult to 
climb, with narrow paths passing through jungle and thorny 
scrub. But he did not choose to attempt it, and they said he 
was acting in collusion with Shah *Alam. 

But what Sambha Jl did not do by attacking us. God carried 
out by the pestilence which raged in the army with such violence 
that in seven days of its prevalence everyone died who was 
attacked — that is, about one-third of the army. Of this disease 
there died every day five hundred men ; nor was the mortality 
confined to men only — it extended to horses, elephants, and 
camels. This made the air pestilential [228], and it being a 
confined route, supplies also failed, and this was like encountering 
another enemy. For although, as I said, wheat was abundant, 
from this time there were no animals to carry it. Thus the 
soldiers had more than enough to undergo. Many of those whose 
horses died had no money to buy others, nor was there anyone 
in the camp ready to sell. They were thus forced to march on 
foot, and many died of the great heat and thirst they under- 
went. 

Having reached the top of this pass, we marched for the 

^ Grant-Duflf, 145, calls the pass the Ambah-ghat, and states that, after it had 
been ascended, Shah *Alam cantoned his army for the rains at V^alwa (in Satarah, 
lat. 16° 28^ long, 74® 15'). He mentions (p. 148) the pestilence, and also the 
cavalry being reduced to marching on foot. TTha fi ^an, ii. 291, speaks of 
Ram-darrah (pass), and the difficulties of the march. Dr. Codrington informs 
me that Ramghat is a pass in the Western Ghauts, south of the Amba-gh5t, 
in 15® 52' N.. 74® 4' E. Making for the Ramghat from Vingorla, it would hie 
necessary, in order to avoid the mountains, to march south as far as the Chapora 
or Convalle River, the northern limit of Bardes. It is up the valley of this river 
that the route to Ramghat lies, as may be seen from the Indian Atlas sheet 



288 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HIXDCSTAS 


kingdom of Bijapur. Several times we were watched on the 
march by the enemy, who, whenever occasion ser\’ed, spared 
neither our baggage nor ourselves, plundering in all directions. 
Finally, we arrived at Aamadanaguer (Ahmadnagar),* where, 
as I stated in the First Part of my History (I. 75), Chand BibT 
caused golden and silver balls to be fired from her cannon, with 
an inscription that the ball should belong to the finder. Here 
we met the army of Aurangzeb, who was waiting for the rainy 
season to pass before venturing farther into the kingdoms of 
Bijapur and Gulkandah. During these marches and halts, 
it was obser\-ed that in the morning there were on the tents 
\’arious scarlet imprints of hands. Everyone was in astonish- 
ment; we could never discover the signification of these imprints, 
unless it could be judged to be some witchcraft. For no one 
could climb so high as to make these hand-prints on the royal 
tents. 

On the conclusion of the rainy season the whole army removed 
to Sholapur.® On reaching the outskirts of that place, which 
had already been taken by Aurangzeb from the King of Bijapur, 
the king ordered Shah ‘Alam to proceed with Bahadur Khan to 
invade Gulkandah® as a punishment for having allied itself to the 
King of Bijapur. Setting out on our march, we reached Malquer 
(Malkher)^ on the frontier of Gulkandah. There w'e found 
Mahamed Ebraim (Muhammad Ibrahim),® a Persian, who had 
risen from oilman to the dignity of chief minister at Gulkandah. 

^ The arrival of Sh^ Mlam at Ahmadnagar took place on the Z3th Jamilda II , 
1095 H. (May 29, 1684) (* 244). 

2 Aurangzeb left Ahmadnagar for SholSpur on the 2nd JamSda II., 1096 H. 
twenty-eighth year (May 7. 1685); he reached Sholapur on June 4, 1685 
CM..i.‘A .’258, 259). 

^ Sh^h *Alam was detached against naidar§,bad on the 6th Sha'ban, twenty- 
eighth year. 1096 H. (July 9, 1685) (* Ma,asir-i-*Alamgiri,* 260). 

^ Malkher (Thornton, 644. Mulkair), a town on the Bhima, eighty-six miles west 
of Haidarabad. lat. 17® 10'. long. 77® 19', 

® For Muhammad Ibrahim, holing the Qutb-Shahi title of Khalilnllah KhSn. 
see * Ma.^ir-ul-Umara,’ iii. 627, under his 'Alamgiri title of Mahabat Khan. He 
is mentioned again by N. M. in connection with Governor Gyfiford’s letter to 
*AIamgir, sent through N. M. (see Part III., fol. 154). His portrait forms one of 
our illustrations (No. 38), There is an engraved portrait of him in D. Havart, 
• Op en Ondergang van Coromandel,* 1693, part ii., 226, under which he has 
inscribed the words from Seneca : * Ingrato terra nihil pejus alit.* 




XX. SULTAX ‘AzIm-ud-dI.x, Seco.xd Son of Shah ^alam. 




MASUCCrS FLIGHT TO GULKAI^DAH 


289 


To the lucky fortune of the famous Mir Jumlah he united the 
same treasonable practices, for he subsequently betrayed his 
king, as by reading farther will be seen (II. 231). To start 
with, he did not fail, however, in proving himself a valiant 
soldier, planting from time to time one on our ribs. Neverthe- 
less, it was revealed by his style of fighting that he did not mean 
to exert all his force, for he could have punished us much more 
than he did [229]. 

Once more I take Flight and go to Gulkandah. 

As I was already dissatisfied with all this marching, I con- 
tinued to reflect on modes of retiring to Europe, there to 
enjoy the much or little that I had fairly earned by my labours. 
I therefore asked Shah ^Alam for leave to visit Surat on some 
business I had there. But as he knew by experience that my 
determination was to proceed still farther, he ordered his slaves 
to watch carefully that I did not take to flight. He refused to 
give any other answer. 

Seeing him to be thus positive, I adopted another plan, which 
was to write to Muhammad Ibrahim begging him to assist me 
in my escape. He wrote that he would most willingly do so. 
To this end he sent daily four thousand horse to patrol, as if 
they meant to make an attempt upon us ; and this caused some 
anxiety to Shah ‘Alam. This went on for several days, until 
the day fixed for my escape arrived. I sent my books out of 
the camp by the hands of my spies, who moved about in safety. 
Then contenting myself with carrying off my hoard of gold 
coins and my case of instruments, I left my tent mounted on a 
horse followed by a palanquin, as if I were going out to take 
the air. I halted at the tent of one of my firiends, an English- 
man named Thomas Gudlet,^ and there I drank a cup or two, 
so as to mystify Shah ‘Alam’s spies. Then on the pretext that 
at night I had to give a dinner to some friends, I sent the spies 
to procure various dishes of food, some to one place, some to 

^ This must be Thomas Goodlad, 'who found his way to Gulkandah, and is 
mentioned in the letters of Governor Gyfford sent through N. M. He is 
spoken of elsewhere as a renegade, and probably belonged to the family referred 
to in Sir R. C. Temple’s note (i), p. 90, ‘Bowrey,* Hakluyt Society (1905), 

VOL. 11. 19 



290 OF KISG AURANGZEBy SIXTH KING OF HISDCsTAX 


another. I also ordered my palanquin to be taken away, as 
I intended to ride home that evening. 

When I found myself free of these spies, I sent out two 
faithful ser\’ants to wait for me in a village across the river, near 
which were posted the four thousand horsemen of Muhammad 
Ibrahim. On arriving they were to display a small white flag 
as a signal that the horsemen were there, and that I might come 
safely. As soon as I got this warning, I rode out on my horse as 
if taking the air, but, in truth, I was on my way to escape. 
When I reached the river I moved most leisurely, as if I only 
meant to give my horse a drink. 

When the sentries saw I was crossing the river they began to 
shout and warn the horsemen that I was clearing out. But 
they were too late to catch me, for giving my steed the rein, I 
moved oif in fine style. The horsemen of Shah ‘Alam pursued 
me, describing a half-circle in the hope [230] of surrounding 
me. But Muhammad Ibrahim’s troopers at once rode up, 
lance in rest, and put Shah ‘Alam’s horsemen to flight. Thus 
delivered, I reached the village, and from the village the army, 
where I gave thanks to Muhammad Ibrahim for the favour he 
had done me. 

Nor must I omit to mention how some Christians in the 
service of the Gulkandah king, aware that I was seeking to 
escape from Shah ^Alam, came out to meet me and escort me, 
so as to take my side in case any of the Gulkandah troops 
attempted to interfere with me. Hardly had I reached the 
presence of Muhammad Ibrahim, when one of Shah ‘Alam’s 
spies also turned up. He delivered letters to the general, and 
informed him in private that I was much valued by Shah 
^Alam, who would take it very ill should he assist a person that 
the prince had sent after several times, and had put sentries 
over to prevent his escape. 

The spy left, and also the other persons present, and I was 
alone with Muhammad Ibrahim. He already regretted having 
helped me in my flight, and as he had been planning to desert to 
the prince’s side, he feared being badly treated by His Highness. 
This w'as why, after having congratulated me on my escape, he 
prayed me to remain with him a few days; he said he felt 



HIS FORTVXES AT GULKASDAH 


291 


unwell, and wanted to purge himself. I quite understood the 
design of Muhammad Ibrahim; he meant to make me over 
once more to Shah ‘Alam. Placing my hand on my dagger, I 
said to him that if he did not give me leave to go on to Gulkan- 
dah, I should without fail rip open my bowels in his presence, 
and would rather die than go back to the service of the prince, 
Shah ^llam. 

He became alarmed at finding me thus resolute, and, retiring 
inside, told me to wait a little. He wrote me a passport for 
Gulkandah, and coming out again handed it to me, telling me 
privately to make all the haste I could. As this was all I was 
waiting for, I jumped on my horse at once, and travelled for 
three days, until I arrived at Gulkandah. There I repaired 
to the house of a friend, Monsieur Francisco Guety, and he 
conducted me to the mansion of Xarif Elmulq (Sharif-ul-mulk),^ 
brother-in-law of the Gulkandah king. He held several con- 
versations with me ; and the king’s sister suffering from 
palpitation of the heart, I was able to alleviate her complaint 
a great deal. In this way I began to be talked about in 
Gulkandah [231]. 

Thus the king heard of my arrival. As his European 
physician, a Frenchman named Monsieur Destremon, was 
dead, the king sent for me to his presence. There, after some 
conversation, he directed me to go and bleed a woman in his 
harem, much cherished by him because she knew where the 
treasures of the King of Gulkandah, Cotobxa (Qujb Shah), 
were concealed. She was a Georgian, and so extremely stout, 
and the fat covered the veins so much, that blood could not be 
drawn from her except from the capillary veins. Her arms 
were covered with lancet marks. I felt for the vein, and after 
fixing the bandage, I took a measure twice the size I used 
for others ; and I reached the vein with such dexterity that the 
blood gushed out with great force. Everyone was in admira- 

^ For his biography, see * Ma,^r-ul-Umara,’ ii. 688. He, with his two sons, 
surrendered to Shah *Alam. and was sent to Aurangzeb at Sholapur. He died 
on the 4th Sha*b§.n, 1098 H. (June 15, 1687). Monsieur Guety is probably 
identical with the French merchant of that name who was living at San Thome 
in 1704.06, and is mentioned several times in Part V. 


19 — 2 



292 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDCSTAN 


tion at seeing a thing that had never happened with this woman 
before. 

The king himself, who was standing behind looking on, 
became desirous of being bled also- But though they made 
me wait for that day, in the end he would not have it done. 
It may be that someone had frightened him that I might be an 
emissary from Shah *Alam and Aurangzeb, sent to bleed him in 
such a w’ay that he would never want to be bled again. In 
place of having himself bled, he made over to me for treatment 
one of his nephews who had an ulcerated leg, and for this 
purpose he presented to me seven hundred rupees for my 
expenses. 

Shah ‘Alam takes Gulkandah. 

But whilst I was treating the king's nephew, Muhammad 
Ibrahim had deserted to Shah ‘Alam’s side.^ The Gulkandah 
forces being left without a head, Shah ‘Alam seized the occasion, 
and fell at once on the enemy’s army. The soldiers of Gulkan- 
dah fled in all directions in great confusion. During the fighting 
the second in command, called Rustam Rao,^ who had declined 
to go over to Shah *Alam, was wounded. When the army 
had been defeated, Shah ‘Alam advanced with rapidity against 
Gulkandah. 

As soon as a report of this defeat reached that city, the king 
retired into the fortress,^ carrying with him his fkiends and 
ministers, Madana and Ancana (Madana and Akana),^ who 
were Hindus, Brahmans, hateful to the Mahomedans. The 
populace, setting fire to the houses of those Brahmans, fled 

^ On the nth Za.l Hijjah, twenty- ninth year, 1096 H. (November 9, 1685), 
Muhammad Ibrahim, head of the Gulkandah army, received from Aurangzeb, 
on Shah *Alam*s recommendation, the rank of 6,000. 6,000 horse, with the title 
of Mahabat Khan (* Ma,Slsir-i-*AlamgirI,’ 269). 

” Rustam Rao, uncle’s son of Madana Brahman, chief minister of Gulkandah 
(*Ma,agir-ul-Umara,* iii. 630). 

^ On the last day of 2 u,l Qa'dah, twenty-ninth year, 1096 H. (October 29, 1685), 
a report was received from Shah 'Alam that Abu,} Hasan had retreated into 
the fortress, and that Ibrahim, his general, had come into the Mogul camp 

M.-i-‘A.,’ 267). 

4 See Khafi Khan, ii. 292; Elliot and Dowson, vii. 315. In the *Ma,asir-ul- 
Umara,* iii. 628, the second name is spelt ‘ Ikana.* 



FIRST CONQUEST OF GULKANDAH, 1685 


293 


from the city and scattered themselves. Without loss of time 
I mounted my horse, and [232] rode until I reached Mussula- 
patao (Machhlipatanam). I evaded seizure by the three 
hundred troopers sent after me by Shah ‘Alam for my arrest. 
After a halt there of two days I came to Narsapur,^ where, 
considering myself secure, I enjoyed myself with the English 
and Dutch. Here I remained until the king sent for me once 
more ; but let us retrace our steps, and speak of Shah *Alam“s 
doings in Gulkandah. 

It is quite certain that Shah ‘Alam is of a generous nature, 
and of such a good temperament that he is disinclined to harm- 
ing anyone. If he took any action, it was under the orders of 
Aurangzeb, who, by letter after letter, forced him to act. 
It was due to this good nature that he had done neither to the 
Portuguese nor to the Shiva Jl (z.f., Sambha JI) all the harm he 
could have done, and did not behave to Gulkandah with 
warlike rigour ; for he ordered his captains and generals to do 
no harm to that city (Haidarabad). Thus the soldiers went 
about the city without plundering it, and killed no one but a 
faqir, who, being of the Persian religion, was killed by some 
Uzbaks, who hate the followers of ‘AH.® 

The king [Abu,l Hasan], finding himself in this great 
difiiculty, secured Shah ‘Alam himself as mediator with 
Aurangzeb for making a peace. The prince wrote to his 
father that it would require a long delay to take the fortress 
(Gulkandah). Therefore, if His Majesty would content himself 
with things as they were, it might seem to him well to make 
peace with the Gulkandah king. For the fault had not been his, 
but that of his ministers ; and he (Shah ‘Alam) would arrange 
that the king should give every satisfaction that His Majesty 
could desire. 

Aurangzeb wrote to his son that he required the death of the 

^ Narsapur, a town now in the British district of Rajahmiindry, presidency 
of Madras, forty .eight miles south of Rajahmundry. lat. 16® 20', long. 81® 47' 
(Thornton, 685). Masulipatam lies on the same coast, lat. 16® 10', long. 81® 13' 
{ibid., 605). 

^ The report of the capture of the city of Haidar§,bad was received by 
Aurangzeb on the last day of Zu,l Qa'dah, 1096 H. (October 31, 1685) 
(‘ Ma,agir-i-‘Alamgiri,’ 267), but the chronogram on p. 268 assigns it to 1097 H. 



294 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDU STAN 


Brahmans, a large sum in money, jewels, elephants, and war 
materials, with a promise to give no more aid to Bijapur. On 
receipt of this reply, Shah ‘Alam opened negotiations with 
the King of Gulkandah. The latter continued to live in 
the fortress like a prisoner ; and the first thing he did was to kill 
the Brahmans and fling them dowm from the fortress walls.^ 
The King of Gulkandah conceded everything that Shah ‘Alam 
asked for, and the latter gave his word that Aurangzeb, his 
father, would not break the peace. Thus did the poor King of 
Gulkandah become a petty prince. He attempted no farther 
to turn himself into a valiant warrior, but passed his time 
continuously in feasting among musicians and dancers. When 
matters had been arranged, Shah ‘Alam retired into the province 
[233] of Cohir (Kohlr),^ a distance of twenty leagues from 
Gulkandah, keeping in correspondence with this king, with 
whom he left an ambassador. 

I GO TO Gulkandah, and flee once more as far as 

Madras. 

While Shah ‘Alam was halted in that province (Kohir) 
waiting for the receipt of the treasure, elephants, jewels, and 
war materials, in accordance with the treaty, he requested the 
king to have a search made for me and send me to him, as 
he wanted me. Horsemen were sent by the king to fetch me, 
with orders to the governors that if I refused to come willingly 
I was to be sent by force. The soldiers came upon me in 
Narsapur, and showed me the royal farni& 7 i, whereby the king 
recalled me to court on the pretext of continuing the treatment 
of his nephew. He promised me that whenever I wanted my 
liberty it should be given without difficulty. 

^ The head of MSdanA Brahman was sent in by Abu,l Hasan on the 
ist JamSda I. (March 26, 1686} (* M.-i-*A.,* 272). One of our illustrations is a 
portrait of MadanS. D. Havart (pp. 2x9, 220, 224) has portraits of Msdana 
(Suraj Fark^) and Akana, also a fancy picture of their naked bodies being 
dragged through the streets. 

® Kohir, a place forty-aght to fifty miles west of Gulkandah (see the map in 
S. H. Bilgrami and C. Willmott’s ‘Historical and Descriptive Sketch of the 
Nizam’s Dominions,* 2 vols., Bombay, 1S84). Shah *Alam returned to court at 
Sholapur on June 27, 1686 (25th Rajab) (‘ Ma,asir-i-‘Alamgm.’ 274). 



MASUCCI MAKES FOR XARSAPUR 


295 


I could see quite well that there w-as no escape from going, 
for they would cariy" me off to the court whether I liked it 
or not. I therefore dissembled, and made display of goodwill 
and a desire to be of sevyice to His Majesty. I mounted my 
horse and went with them, in all pomp and magnificence, until 
we got to Gulkandah. When I appeared to make my obeisance 
to the king, he declared himself pleased at my coming. Urgently 
I begged him, as I had come under protection of his word, 
not to deliver me into the hands of Shah ‘Alam. By this he 
was somewhat disconcerted, and fixed my pay at seven hundred 
rupees a month. But I declared that I would not accept pay, 
that I meant to serve him for nothing. Nevertheless he sent 
seven hundred rupees to my abode, and while I was with him 
he ordered a set of robes to be conferred on me. He gave a 
private order to post a hundred horsemen in the street where 
I was staying to prevent anyone interfering with me. 

For the envoy of Shah ^llam, called Momencan (Mumin 
Khan),^ sought an opening for carrying me off to the prince. 
In addition to the guard of horsemen, Abu,l IHsisan gave me 
over in charge to his dlwcLn, who was responsible for my 
personal safety. I began the treatment of his nephew once 
more, and remained two months in Gulkandah, by which time 
the patient had recovered. But I was obliged to seek safety 
in a secret flight. For the ambassador [234] of Shah ^Alam, 
when he was taking leave, once more tried to induce the king 
to make me over into his hands. He (the king) replied that 
if at his departure he carried me away with him, no one would 
come foiw’ard to defend me. For this purpose he ordered the 
withdrawal of the hundred horsemen placed as sentries to 
prevent interference with me. 

This conversation was heard by one of the said ambassador’s 
soldiers, who years before had come under an obligation to 
me for treating him in an illness, and he hurried to warn me 
of the ambassador's intentions. The information reached me 
when I was at cards, and suppressing my tribulation, I went 
on for a time with the game. I then went out and betook 

^ A MQ.min Khtln is mentioned on p. 275 of the * Ma,asir-i-*Alamgiri,’ year 
1097 H (16S6), as being then in the service of Shah *Alam. 



296 OF KIXG AURAXGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HIXDCSTAX 


myself to the house of the Dutch envoy, who was then Louren5o 
Pit,' and begged his assistance in this delicate situation. After 
that I sent for the Father Vicar of Gulkandah, named Frey Fran- 
cisco, of the order of St. Augustin, and most urgently entreated 
him to see Rustam Rio and procure leave to remove to Mach- 
hlipatanam a brother of his called Augustinho, who had fallen ill. 

I furnished him with this name so that, if asked for his 
invalid brother’s name, he should be in no perplexity, and 
thereby avoid suspicion of there being some deceit. The 
arrangement succeeded perfectly, for the permit w’as obtained. 
I got into a palanquin and feigned to be unw-ell; and praise 
be to God ! the spies never discovered me. Thus did I make 
my journey without the envoy of Shah ‘Alam being aware of 
my departure. I went on until I arrived at Madrasta (Madras) 
or Fort St. George, w-hich belongs to the English, and there 
I was free of all danger. My escape from Gulkandah was 
the cause of some discomfort to the king, for Shah ‘Alam made 
great complaint of his want of energy in arresting me; but 
he knew quite well that by that time I was no longer in 
Gulkandah. Still, he made various searches, and in the end 
sent Rustam Rao as a prisoner into the fortress because he had 
issued the permit for my departure. The prisoner was forced 
to pay fifty thousand rupees, which were forwarded to Shah 
‘Alam as a present to procure pardon for the fault of the king’s 
officer [235]. 

My Arrival in Madras and Marriage. 

On my arrival in Madras the Portuguese gentlemen, who 
knew the zeal with which I had worked for their nation at Goa, 
came to see me. They congratulated me on my arrival, and 

* This is Laurens Pit the younger, who was Dutch chief-— first at Palicfit, near 
Madras, arid then at Negapatam — ^in 1688-1693. He captured Pondicherry firom 
the French in the latter year. He was sent up to Gulkandah in 1686 (see Dubois, 

• Vies des Gouvemeurs Generaux,’ p. 246). The * Sieur Pite (or Pitre) of Bremen,* 
met at Palicat in 1652 by Tavernier (Ball’s edition, i. 26S), must be the father, 
who was also a Dutch Company’s official. There is a full account of L. Pit 
the younger’s embassy to Gulkandah in D. Havart, * Op en Ondergang van 
Coromandel,’ 1693* part ii., I54“ifi4* There are also plates of his entry in state 
on March 26, and of his audience with King Abu.l Hasan on April 3, 1686. He 
left Gulkandah on June 4. 



REACHES MADRAS ASD MARRIES, 1686 297 

offered their services in whatever way would be of use to me. 
Such help they would give most willingly. But I was all 
anxiety to see Senhor Francisco Martim (Francois Martin),^ 
Director-General of the Royal Company of France, who had 
come back to Pudicheiy’ (Pondicherry^) from Surat. I got into 
a palanquin and went off to visit him, where I was well received 
and well entertained for several days. He gave me the advice 
not to return to Europe, but to marry in India. He informed me 
of a lady born in India, but of good English Catholic parents. 
She lived in Madrastapatad (Madras), and her name was Sen- 
hora Ilizabet Ihardili (? Elizabeth Hartley), legitimate daughter 
of Mestre (Mr.) Christovao Ihardili (? Christopher Hartley), 
president of Machhllpatanam, and of Donna Aguida Pereyra, a 
Portuguese lady. At that time the lady Ilizabet Ihardili was the 
widow of Mr. Thomas Klark (Clarke), an English Catholic; 
he was a judge, and second at the station of Madras.^ 

This is what I was told by Monsieur the General, confirmed 
by some Capuchin friars, and thus I began to relinquish the 
idea of going back to Europe. For, as they told me, having 
become accustomed to the climate and the food of India, and 
being already advanced in age, I should not last very long in 
Europe. Thus I quitted Pondicherry and returned to Madras, 
meaning to find out the intentions of the said lady. There I 
arrived at the end of June in one thousand six hundred and 
eighty-six; and I talked with the well-known fathers Zenad 
(Zenon) and Ephrem Ephraim),® Capuchins, and apostolic 

^ Francois Martin (bom at Paris, 1634 ; died at Pondicherry December, 1706) 
had come back from Surat in this year (1686). He reached Pondicherry on 
May 20 (MS. *Memoires de Frangois Martin, 1664-1694,* fol. 401, Archives 
Nationales, Paris, Serie T,* 1169). 

- *Fort St. George,’ by Mrs. Frank Penny, pp. 13, igi. Thomas Clarke, 
junior, died October 6, 1683. His tombstone has a Latin inscription, and a 
coat of arms with crest. He was interpreter to the Company, and his father had 
been chief at Machhllpatanam. 

* Father Zenon, Capuchin, a native of Bauge, near Angers, went to Madras 
in 1642 with Father Ephraim, of Nevers. Zenon is mentioned several times by 
Tavernier, edition Ball, i. 209, 224, 225-233, 269. He was also De la Boullaye le 
Gouz’s travelling companion on his first visit to India. Le Gouz was also from 
Bauge. Ephraim’s appointment as Catholic chaplain in Madras, dated June 8, 
i<i42, is set forth in Father Norbert’s ‘Memoires Utiles et Necessaires . . .* 
(Lucca, 1742), p. 95. 



298 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


missionaries in Madras, otherwise Fort St. George. They were 
aware of the virtues and sound doctrine of the said lady, and they 
gave me such a good report of her qualities and virtues that 
I decided to marr}\ By the favour of God I was married on 
St. Simon’s and St. Jude’s Day of that same year (1686).^ 

1 had a son, but God chose rather to make him an angel in 
Paradise than leave him to suffer in this world. In this way I 
was fixed to a residence in the said Fort St. George, where 
came many that knew me, or heard speak of me, in order to be 
treated. Among those who came was Rajah Champat,^ son of 
Champat, Bundelah, who, as stated [236] in the First Part of my 
Historj’ (L 186), was sacrificed by Aurangzeb as a foundation 
for his victories, in reward for having found him a route in his 
combat with Dara. 

Nor did Shah ‘Alam fail to send in search of me in several 
directions, while the princess sent one who had formerly been 
my servant to seek me in Madras. She gave him as a present 
a dagger, which he sold to one of my friends for eight hundred 
patacas (Rs. 1,600). This she did only through her desire to 
know where I w^as, so that she might send to fetch me. 

All my acquaintances know that very few months passed 
without gifts coming from the Mogul grandees, who gave me 
many presents, and sent to me patients of title and many 
others. Experience was my great teacher, whereby I had 
acquired several secrets, in which, it may be, I shall allow the 
world to participate, for I have no heir to whom to bequeath 
these treasures that preserve our bodily health. But among 
the others I may as well mention that I manufactured certain 
cordials regardless of expense, the same being w'onderful in 
certain complaints, as many can testify. Yet it is only a short 
time ago that I began to distribute these cordials, for I have 
no wish to imitate those who, keener for others’ gold than the 
health of their fellow-men, make up mixtures of various things 
and sell them as cordials. I did not begin to sell mine until 

r 

^ St Simon’s and St Jude’s Day is October 2S. 

2 The correct name is Dalpat Rao. Rajah of Datiya in Bundelkhand (see 
Part III , f. 19S, under year 1690). He was not the son of Champat, but of 
Subhkaran, Bundelah. 



BlJAPUR CONQUERED, 1686 


299 


sxperience had taught me that the purchasers would not be 
cheated. My residence in Madras will offer no prejudice to 
;he continuation of my History, for, besides the spies I em- 
ployed, the nobles were pleased to forward me news of what 
;ook place in the camp. 


Capture of Bijapur and Imprisonment of the King. 

It is now time for us to begin talking of the war with 
Bijapur. Aurangzeb, finding that he could not come easily to 
a settlement with Bijapur, made for that reason a peace with 
Gulkandah. He then went with his whole army to the con- 
quest of a kingdom which he had already pillaged, taking from 
it little by little, as I have said (II. 174), strong places, 
revenues, and materiel of war. Thus Secander (Sikandar), a 
youth of fifteen,^ the last King of Bijapur, was forced to seek 
shelter in the fortress there with not more than twelve thousand 
soldiers. Aurangzeb appeared before it with his whole army 
’237], and, encircling the city, forced it to surrender when all 
provisions had been exhausted. 

It was his misfortune that Xaabudican (Shahab-ud-dJn Khan),^ 
Aurangzeb’s general, of whom I shall have to speak again 
(II. 239, 240), seized the supplies of coin and provisions which 
were on their way from Shah ‘Alam’s trenches to the fortress. 
For this prince was not pleased at the King of Bijapur losing 
his liberty and his kingdom. But when Aurangzeb heard of 
this attempt he drew his lines still closer, and thus Sikandar in 
one thousand six hundred and eighty-six delivered himself up 
to Aurangzeb, who kept him captive in his camp. This con- 
cession was made because he was still only a boy, and of the 
same religion as himself. 

With this event came to an end the Kings of Bijapur, but it 

^ Compare Fryer, ‘Account of India/ edition of 1873, p. 406, where he says 
Sikandar was scarce ten (in X675). 

2 This must be Mir Shahab-ud-din (1649-1710), whose first title was Shahab- 
ud-din Khan. Afterwards, on the 15th Muharram, 1095 (January 2, 1684), 
he was made Ghazi-ud-din Khan. He was the father of Nizam-ul-Mulk, Asaf 
Jah, of Haidarabad (died 1748). The incident as to the seizure of supplies sent 
to Bijapur by Shah *Alam is historical (see Yahya Khan*s * Tazkirat-ul-Muluk ’). 



300 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


must be noted that Sikandar was not of the ancient royal 
family,^ for his father was no son of the king, only a servant of 
the queen’s. When she became a widow, the king having left 
no sons she made this servant of hers king, so that she might 
have liberty to move about as she pleased. Four times did her 
devotion take her to Mecca, and here happened what may not 
secure the belief of readers, but it is very certain that it 
occurred as I state it. 

When she arrived the first time at Mecca and requested to 
be admitted, they refused permission as she was a widow ; for 
no one may enter who is not married.'^ In order that those 
not married may marry, there stand at the gates old men and 
old women, boys and girls, ready to marry the unmarried. 
But the queen declined to marry in this way, there being no 
one there of her rank. After a good deal of talk to the holy 
men, they invented a remedy by making a ridiculous marriage, 
taking a nice little sum as bribe for doing it. They married 
her (who will believe it ?) to a cock, which she carried in her 
arms to the tomb of Muhammad. In this way she was able to 
pay her devotions, leaving the judicious to laugh at and wonder 
over the foolishness and madness of those holy men. They 
displayed this subtlety and power of refining in the interpreta- 
tion of their books simply on hearing the rattling of patacas and 
rupees. For it being stated in their books of ceremonial that 
no one can enter the sepulchre of Muhammad without being 

1 Bijapur was taken on the 30th 2 u,l Qa‘dah of the thirtieth year (October 18, 
1686) (' Ma,agir-i-‘Alamg 5 ri,* p. 279). • Said-i-Sikandar girift* is a chronogram 
for it. Sikandar ‘Adil Shah, son of ‘Ali *Adil ShSh, son of SultSn Muhammad 
*AdiI Shah, the ninth and last Sovereign of Bijapur, after a lapse of fifteen (lunar) 
years from his deposition, died in Aurangzeb’s camp in 1112 H, (June 17, 1700, to 
June 7, 1701) (* TarM-i-Muhammadi *). 

As to any such law or rule, there is no evidence Through the kindness of 
Mr. G, P. Devey, H.B.M/s Consul at Jeddah, I have been favoured with a 
valuable note by the Vice-Consul, Dr. S. M. Husain. The story must have been 
invented out of two facts : (i) That a woman on pilgrimage must have a mahram, 
or guardian, a father, brother, husband, son, or some relation within the 
prohibited degrees; {2) that the habit of divorce is much more frequent at 
Mecca than elsewhere in Islam, The first point is borne out by Hadji TQia n, 
M.R,A.S„ * With the Pilgrims to Mecca,* 1905, pp. 32, 94, and the second 
be gathered from Dr. C. Snouck Hurgronje*s * Bilder aus Mekka, ’ 4to. , Leiden, 
1880. 



AURANGZEB ADVANCES AGAINST GULKANDAH 301 


married, they got hold of this grand and famous device of a 
marriage with a cock! [Here a coarse, abusive sentence is 
omitted.] 

The campaigns against Bijapur began from one thousand 
six hundred and seventy, and [238] lasted until this year 
(? 1686). At the commencement of the war, when the men of 
Bijapur caught any unhappy persons belonging to the Moguls 
who had gone out to cut grass or collect straw or do some other 
service, they did not kill them but cut off their noses. Thus 
they came back into the camp all bleeding. The surgeons 
belonging to the country cut the skin of the forehead above 
the eyebrows, and made it fall down over the wounds on the 
nose. Then, giving it a twist so that the live flesh might meet 
the other live surface, by healing applications they fashioned 
for them other imperfect noses. There is left above, between 
the eyebrows, a small hole, caused by the twist given to the 
skin to bring the two live surfaces together. In a short time 
the wounds heal up, some obstacle being placed beneath to 
allow of respiration. I saw many persons with such noses, and 
they were not so disfigured as they would have been without 
any nose at all, but they bore between their eyebrows the mark 
of the incision. 


The March against Gulkandah; the Imprisonment of 
Shah "Alam and his Family. 

Aurangzeb was pleased at having overcome the kingdom of 
Bijapur, partly by arms, partly by deceit. It was a realm in 
which the ancient kings kept up ordinarily fifty thousand horse- 
men. Already he (Aurangzeb) found his projects half executed, 
and imagined he could now move forward without obstacle to 
the destruction of Sambha Jl; for all that remained was to 
capture Gulkandah and seize the king. 

This he purposed, although very little time had elapsed since, 
in pursuance of his orders, Shah *Alam had made peace with 
that king. Little did he care about that, it being his maxim to 
keep neither his own nor another’s word, so long as he succeeded 
in his desires. For this reason, even when Bijapur was taken, 



302 OF KING AURAyiGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDCSTAN 


he did not go into quarters ; on the contrary, he set his army 
in motion against Gulkandah. 

The prince Shah ‘Alam was much hurt that his father, for 
no reason at all, should break the treaty of peace which by his 
order had been concluded with Gulkandah, and in the end he 
complained to his father. He said the world would wonder 
that so great a king should pay no heed to the promises made 
by his son and heir. He therefore entreated him to abandon 
this intention of his, for the King of Gulkandah [239] was 
quite helpless, and could not impede His Majesty’s projects 
against Sambha Ji. 

Aurangzeb had resented greatly this prince’s want of effort 
when trjdng to take Goa, which he might easily have achieved, 
and was also turned against him by his having sent off supplies 
to the King of Bijapur, as I have stated ( 11 . 237). He also 
feared that the prince, to revenge himself on his father for 
breaking without cause the peace with Gulkandah, might 
send some succour in secret to that king. Aurangzeb therefore 
determined to make Shah ‘Alam a prisoner. 

Some scent of this resolve of Aurangzeb was perceptible, and 
Shah ‘Alam’s eldest son, called Sultan Mu‘izz-ud-dln, wanted 
to end the business by killing his grandfather. But though he ’ 
was a resolute young man, he would not do it without com- 
municating with his father. He quoted to him as a precedent 
how his grandfather had not spared his brothers nor his father, 
nor Sultan Muhammad (his son). Equally they ought not to 
spare him, for he had fallen short in his behaviour to the King ’ 
of Gulkandah. But Shah *Alam, a benign and tender-hearted 
prince, forbade any such attempt, saying that he had no wish 
to leave such a bad example to posterity. 

Aurangzeb, the cunning fox, concealed his intentions by 
causing the preparation of several caparisoned elephants, and 
many gifts, robes of honour, arms, and horses, and he let it be 
spread abroad that he was going back to Hindustan. He 
would leave his son, Shah ‘Alam, as lord of the Dakhin, and 
he might then deal with the King of Gulkandah as he thought 
fit. All this he did in order not to displease his son, who was 
in low spirits. He also professed to be broken, as it were, by 



SHAH ‘A LAM IMPRISONED, 1687 


303 


the marches and fatigues of so many campaigns, and meant at 
last to take repose, and leave what had yet to be done to his sons. 

Shah ‘Alam was informed of his father’s talk, and in a few 
days the camp was full of such rumours ; thus the prince 
remained satisfied, not knowing that he was on the edge of 
the abyss. For these purposes the army halted some days. 
One day Aurangzeb gave a secret order to Shahab-ud-din 
l^an and Asad Eban, the chief ministers, to remain in the 
council-chamber. When Shah ‘Alam arrived, they were to 
disarm him. After this he sent at once for the prince, every- 
body imagining he was called inside to receive robes of honour 
and promotion. 

Therefore the prince came jo5dully, hoping to see carried out 
his wsh [240] of preserving peace with Gulkandah, while he 
would become lord of the Dakhin. He entered the royal tent, 
but on seeing him, Aurangzeb prevented his approach by say- 
ing at once with simulated joy : ‘ Shah ‘Alam, BahSdur ! 
Retire into the privy chamber and take council with my 
ministers as to what has to be done ; they await you.’ Hardly 
had the prince reached the designated room, when Shahab-ud- 
dln !|^an and Asad !]San, accompanied by the other ministers, 
told him it was the order of the Badshah (that is, ‘ emperor ’), 
Aurangzeb the Great, that he deliver up his arms. He knew 
well it was useless to resist ; undoing his sword and pulling his 
kaUar'i (dagger) from his waist, he let the whole fall to the ground. 

While Shah ‘Alam went into the inner room, Aurangzeb sent 
for Sultan Mu‘izz-ud-din, eldest son of Shah ‘Alam, as I gaid 
above, and he, believing it to be a fortunate day, appointed for 
the distribution of robes of honour, came with great delight, 
but hardly had he entered the presence of that schemer tban 
he was treated the same as his father. Before he could get 
close Aurangzeb said to his grandson, with haste, as if relying 
on his judgment : ‘ Sultan Mu‘izz-ud-din ! Go into that 
adjoining chamber, where your father and the ministers are 
waiting for you to hold a council and decide what ought to be 
done.’ 

The prince went in with great vivacity, being then arrived at 
twenty years of age. When he had entered, the ministers said 



304 


OF KIXG AURAKGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDCSTAN 


to him what they had said to Shah ‘Alam. But he was of 
another temper, and would not yield readily; grasping his 
sword, he turned his ej’es towards his father, waiting for such 
orders as he might give. But the prudent Shah ‘Alam told 
him that it was no longer a time to hope : let him unbuckle his 
sword and deliver up his arms, for it was necessary to obey. 
Then Mu'izz-ud-din, lowering his e}'es, full of tears of rage, 
allowed his sword and dagger to fall to the ground. 

When this had been carried out, Aurangzeb sent a messenger 
for Sultan ‘Azimudin (‘Azlm-ud-din), and dealt with him in the 
same manner; so also with Sultan Daulat-Afza. Orders were 
issued to place the father and the sons in different prisons 
under strict watch and ward, so that they could send no 
messages, nor for seven years were they left with more than a 
small knife.^ 

During this period of imprisonment Daulat Afza died.s 
There remained the little princes, named Rafia Elcader (Rafi‘- 
ul-qadr) and Coja Sactar (^^ujistah-A^tar), and these were 
placed in a separate prison together, so that they might play 
with each other. Afterwards the order was given that the 
women of Shah ‘Alam, of Sultan Mu‘izz-ud-dln, and of all the 
family should be removed to the fortress of Agrah, to the house 
of the widows.® The treasure and the rest of the wealth [241] 
in the prince’s house were appropriated, including a large sum 
in.pagodas,* coinage of the kings of Gulkandah and Bijapur. 

1 TThan , ii. 332, assigns these arrests to the 17th RabI* II. of the 
twenty-ninth year, 1097 H, (March 13, 1686, N.S.). But, according to the 
‘ Ma,a§ir-i-*Alamgiri,’ where the chronology is more reliable, it must be put in 
the thirtieth year. On p. 293 a friend of Shah ‘Al§.m is expelled from camp 
on the i8th Shawwal of the thirtieth year, 1097 H. Then, on p. 294, follows 
Shah ‘Alam’s arrest, and on p. 295 the thirty-first year (ist Ramazan, 1098 H.) 
begins. Thus the arrests, if made on the 17th Rabi* II., fell in the year 1098 H. 
(thirtieth year), and not in 1097 H. (twenty-ninth year) — that is, they took place 
on March 2, 1687, N.S. 

2 Daulat Afza died on the last day of Safar, 1100 H. (December 24, 1688, N.S.), 
aged nineteen lunar years, seven months, and some days (* Tari^-i-Muhammad!,’ 
and * Ma,asir-i-*Alamgiri,* 314). 

® The Suhag-W^nah^ one of the imperial Kar^anaks, or establishments. 

* Pagoda, a coin long current in Southern India, generally of gold. In 1818 it 
was reckoned as worth three and a half rupees (Yule, 653). 



FALL OF GULKANDAH KINGDOM 305 

Shah ‘Alam decided to play a game of finesse, and shortly 
after his imprisonment he said to his guards that he was 
willing to show his obedience to his father, and that he took 
no offence at what had been done. They went off to inform 
Aurang2;eb of his son’s words. The king smiled and sent him 
food, which Shah ‘Alam ate as if such an affront as imprisonment 
did not matter to him. But afterwards food was so sparingly 
supplied that it was grievous to see princes of such high lineage 
treated in such a manner. When they marched with the camp, 
they appeared like shadows, devoid of all ornament and without 
spirit, shut up in litters put on elephants, and without retinue, 
just like ordinary prisoners. 

Of them all he who felt the imprisonment most was Sultan 
Mu‘izz-ud-din. His room being close to the royal audience- 
hall, he used, on the days when Aurangzeb was distributing 
justice, to shout his complaints as a demonstration against the 
injustice of his grandfather, who conformed neither to the 
rights of humanity nor followed the Quran. So troublesome 
was he, that Aurangzeb was obliged to send him to another 
room farther away from the audience-hall. 


Capture of Gulkandah. 

When the King of Gulkandah heard the above news, he 
recognised at once that his affairs were in a bad way. He 
attempted through his envoys to placate Aurangzeb, and 
requested him not to make war, for he was ready to obey orders 
and look on himself as in the position of any other governor, and 
would hold Gulkandah in that way only. Aurangzeb sent him 
a message that he might take his ease ; his territory would be 
spared. Aurangzeb only meant to march to Calbargue (Kul- 
bargah),^ a burial-place of saints, to offer up prayers and implore 
their protection. 

The King of Gulkandah assumed that Aurangzeb was telling 
the truth, and sent him five lakhs of rupees to be distributed to 

^ In the Nizam’s territory, lat. 17® 19', long. 76® 51' (Bilgrami and Willmott, 
ii. 631). The shrines are those of Banda Nawaz or Gisu-daraz (died 1422), 
Rukn-ud-din, and Siraj-ud-din. 

VOL. II. 


20 



306 OF KL\G AURAXGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HIXDCSTAN 


the poor present at the said shrines. Aurangzeb took the 
money, and instead of moving in the direction of the shrines, 
came straight at Gulkandah. The king might have come 
forth with the thirty thousand horsemen he had, and taking 
the field, could have blocked the roads and contended for 
victorj'. But such was his fear and dread that he retired [242] 
into the fortress with such soldiers as chose to follow him. 

Aurangzeb was informed of this retreat, and at once felt 
happy in having got the rat in a trap. He ordered Shahab- 
ud-dln Khan to march with all haste before the king could 
adopt any other plan ; and after him was sent A‘zam Tara^ to 
invest the fortress, Aurangzeb advancing behind that prince 
more leisurely himself. On reaching the spot, the Mogul forces 
seized the city, and appointed officials on Aurangzeb’s behalf. 
That king, when he arrived, wanted to draw up near the 
fortress. But the Christians in the Gulkandah service fired 
on him from a culverine, which had once on a time been at 
San Thome. Their shot fell so near his horse that he deter- 
mined not to run such great risk, and moved farther off. 

The Moguls pressed the fortress hard. But those inside it 
defended themselves so valorously that the besiegers were 
forced to lay mines and blow up two of the bastions. Several 
assaults were delivered, but Abdul Razac (‘Abd - ur - razzaq) 
defended the place so valiantly that they could never effect an 
entrance. At length by promises and gratuities they brought 
over some of the officers and soldiers, and finally the garrison 
was reduced to a few men. Thus the besiegers found their way 
in and destroyed the small force left with ‘Abd-ur-razzaq, who 
fell after receiving eighteen wounds. His soldiers fled, some 
hither, some thither; while Shahab-ud-din went on to the 
palace and brought forth the dishonoured king by force, the 
palace resounding with the shrieks of the women.^ 

It was sad to see this king carried off upon an elephant 
openly. He was removed to the tent of Prince A'zam Tara, 

^ A‘gam Tara, the title of A'isam Shah, Aurangzeb’s second surviving son ; also 
known as A*la Jah. 

2 Gulkandah was taken on the 24th ^u,l Qa‘dah, 1098 H. (October i, 1687, 
N.S.) Ma,asir-i-*jllamgiri,’ p. 299). 



GULKANDAH KING A PRISONER 


307 


where he was kept waiting for more than an hour in the sun 
until the prince awoke. As the heat was very great, he asked 
a man who was distributing water, as is the custom among the 
Mahomedans, for charity’s sake to favour him with a vessel of 
water to drink. The kind-hearted man was about to comply, 
when the armed men round the elephant interposed, saying 
that prisoners were not allowed to drink without the leave of 
their captors. But at the entreaty of others they permitted 
him in the end to drink. I know not if there could be greater 
misery for a king than to be unable even to drink water when 
absolutely necessary. 

The prince awoke, and a report was made to him of the 
prisoner’s arrival. He ordered him to be brought before him, 
and there, after the necessary obeisances, he fell at the prince’s 
feet. But A^zam Tara raised him and made him sit opposite 
him. Everybody else was made to retire and they held a 
conversation together. On this occasion the King of Gulkandah 
made a present to A‘zam Tara of a bag of diamonds [243], 
among which, as was presumed, there was a diamond weighing 
two patacas, and as broad as one ; thus it by itself was a very 
great treasure. On finishing the conversation, both rose, and 
A*zam Tara, seating the captive at his side on his elephant, 
carried him off to the king’s court. There A'zam Tara dis- 
mounted, leaving the prisoner on the elephant without any 
shade, until Aurangzeb ordered him to be removed to a prison 
separate from that of the King of Bijapur. 

Here even the affronts put upon the wretched King of 
Gulkandah did not finish ; for that kingdom being very rich by 
reason of its diamond mines, Aurangzeb sent to ask where his 
treasures were. The prisoner replied that there were now no 
treasures in Gulkandah, for he had dissipated them. Aurang- 
zeb was not satisfied with this answer, and once more sent to 
ask how he had spent them. He might have sent back to say 
that little by little His Majesty had removed them. But looking 
on himself not as a captive, but as a king only, he answered that 
he had expended them as a sovereign, and had no account to 
render to anyone of what he did when king. 

This answer was brought to Aurangzeb, who in his pride 

20 — 2 



3 o 8 of KIKG AURASGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDDSTIN 


expected all the world to bow the head before him and speak 
as captives, and he used this opening to further molest a king, 
who, entirely through negligence and devotion to women and 
musicians, had lost a kingdom. He ordered the same question 
to be put once more, and, should the same answer be returned, 
the king was to be beaten. Thus it came to pass. For on 
hearing the old question put on behalf of Aurangxeb, he replied 
that he had spent the treasures as the absolute master which he 
then was ; nor was he under obligation to account to anyone 
for the manner, the cause, the object, or the time of his 
expending them. 

Hardly were the words out of his mouth when the officials 
beat him unmercifully, and told him it was great temerity on 
the part of a prisoner to reply with such haughtiness to such 
a great conqueror as Aurangzeb, at whose name he ought to 
tremble and bow his head. On the order, accompanied by 
the above message, having been complied with, Aurangzeb 
directed his removal to the fortress of DaulatSbad. It is a 
close prison on a great eminence.^ 

Thus ended the Kings of Gulkandah in one thousand six 
hundred and eighty-seven in the month of February; and 
to show more strongly how little he esteemed that family, 
Aurangzeb married two of this king’s daughters to two of his 
officials [244]. 

The victorious Aurangzeb, puffed up at the conquest of two 
kingdoms, was pleased to leave in BljSpur and Gulkandah two 
governors. He now ordered a march against Sambha Jl, sup- 
posing it would be easy to destroy this prince, whose country 
w’as now surrounded by provinces and kingdoms belonging to 
the Mogul. 

The march began, he taking with him the imprisoned princes, 
and in the rear of everybody came the King of Bijapur. On the 
way he sent Muhammad Ibrahim as viceroy to Lahor,^ as a 

1 On Anrangzeb’s arrival at Bijapur, i4tli Rabi' I., thirty-first year, 1099 H. 
(February 18, 1688), Ab,ul Hasan was sent to Danlatfibad {‘Ma,asir-i‘Alamgiri,’ 
309). 

Muhaninxad IbrSlilni, entitled Mahabat ^bSn, one of the greatest 'Alamgiri 
nobles, died in 1100 H, (16S8-89), whUe Sflbahdar of Labor. He was formerly at 
^aidarabad as gmeralissimo of Abu,l Hasan, and there held the title of 



AURANGZEB PRESSED BY THE MAHRATTAHS 309 


demonstration of his having approved his treason. But as experi- 
ence teaches, princes delight in getting men to act treasonably 
to their profit, but have no joy afterwards in keeping the traitors 
about their own person. Furthermore, Aurangzeb was accus- 
tomed to pay any traitors who helped him in his enterprises by 
shortening their life. Thus he did not spare Muhammad 
Ibrahim, who, before he arrived at Labor, ended his life with 
the pangs of poison. In the same way he rewarded the other 
officers, to whom he had promised various offices. Some he 
made away with, others he dispersed in different places; the 
soldiers of Bijapur and Gulkandah were also disbanded, God 
made use of this very expedient of Aurangzeb’s to counteract 
his projects. In disbanding the soldiers of those other king- 
doms, he imagined he was making his future enterprises a 
certainty. But Sambha Jl was thereby only rendered the more 
powerful ; for although he had no sufficient resources to 
entertain so many men, he welcomed all who resorted to him, 
and in place of pay allowed them to plunder wherever they 
pleased. 

In this way, before Aurangzeb could inflict any harm, he 
himself was much injured, these soldiers stopping the supplies 
for the royal camp, seizing camels, horses, and mules, killing 
everybody they came across, and sparing only those horses 
which could be of use to them in war. If by chance they 
captured any grandee, they kept him till they could extract 
from him a handsome ransom, and then they liberated him. 
So abundant were the goods they seized that they set up 
markets, where the owners came to redeem their property. 
Thus these plunderers acquired pay enough, and were able to 
continue the campaign. 

In spite of all his huge army, Aurangzeb found that he could 
not by force of arms accomplish his purpose ; for Sambha Jl 
continuously evaded giving battle in the field, and was satisfied 
with plundering everywhere, never remaining many days in the 

Khan (* Tar^-i-Muhammadi ’ ; see also *Ma,asir-ul-Umara,’ iii. 627). His 
nickname was qimar-haz^ the gambler. His seal bore the lines : 

‘ Zi iltafat-i-padshah wa pandit-i».roshan-rawan 
Gasht Ibrahim-i-sar-i-lashk^ EChalilullah. Khsui. * 



310 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDCSTAN 


same place. Relying on the activity of his horses, already 
trained to go long distances and eat little, he wore out 
[245] and incommoded the Mogul commanders and soldiers. 
Aurangzeb became aware that he would never succeed in this 
campaign, except by his usual intrigues. He therefore set to 
work, and wrote letters to Cabcales (Kab Kalish), the chief 
minister of Sambha JI, and by large bribes and presents so far 
succeeded, that this minister undertook to make over Sambha Jl 
to him alive. 


Capture of Sambha Ji. 

It has been said that custom becomes nature ; and a man 
accustomed to any vice cannot, even when he would, free him- 
self from the tendency that by repeated acts he has contracted. 
Thus w'as it with Sambha JL Habituated to interfering with 
other men’s wives, now when it had become necessary to act 
the hero, he could not rid himself of his perverse inclinations. 
This w’as the cause of his losing liberty and life. Kab Kalish 
availed himself of this evil propensity to deliver him into the 
hands of Aurangzeb. 

He told Sambha Jl that two leagues away there was a village 
where abode a lovely married woman. This was enough. 
Sambha Ji resolved to halt at this place, in order to secure his 
impure desires. As soon as Kab Kalish knew his master’s 
resolve, he warned Aurangzeb to send at once five thousand 
horsemen, and without fail Sambha Ji would fall into his power. 
The eager king did not fail to send the soldiers, who awaited 
in ambush the coming of Sambha Jl. The latter quitted his 
soldiers, and followed by a few men, came to meet his doom. 
Before he had reached the village in question, he found himself 
encircled by his enemies, who took him and carried him away 
to the camp of Aurangzeb.^ 

Let the reader hear how this king rewarded those who had 
worked in his favour. The first to pay for the capture of 
Sambha Ji w^as the selfsame Kab Kalish, who by a horrible 

^ Orme, ‘Historical Fragments,* 1805, pp. 162, 163, confirms this account in 
outlines. But probably he only copied Catrou, 182 — ^that is, Manucci at 
second hand. 



EXECUTION OF SAMBHA JI 


3 ” 


death proclaimed to all the world the barbarity of the man who 
had already drunk so much blood, as may be seen from the rest 
of my history. Aurangzeb ordered that the tongue should be 
pulled out by the roots from the throat of the traitorous Kab 
Kalish, so that he might be unable to state that this great 
treason had been plotted at his (Aurangzeb’s) instigation. 

What could Sambha Jl hope for when his first minister, 
against whom the war had not been waged, came to such a 
miserable end! He well understood that death must be the 
end of all his [246] doings. But he did not foresee the mockery 
he should have to suffer before he died. Aurangzeb ordered 
him to be bound strongly upon a camel, and on his head was 
placed a long cap covered with little bells and rattles.^ This was 
meant for mockery of the Hindu princes and the Brahmans, who 
usually wear pointed caps, but without rattles. The licentious 
man having been thus bound, Aurangzeb directed that he should 
be paraded through the camp. The camel was made to run, so 
that the rattles made a great noise and aroused everyone’s 
curiosity, and thus men issued from their tents to see who it 
was coming. In the course of the procession they made the 
camel turn from time to time with such suddenness, that the 
person on it looked as if he must fall from the various move- 
ments he made, but the cords with which he was bound pre- 
vented it and at the same time wearied him out. Finally, 
when the perambulation of the royal camp had been completed, 
the tyrant ordered him to be dragged into his presence. When 
there he ordered his side to be cloven open with an axe and 
his heart to be extracted. The body was then flung on a 

^ The account of the capture (thirty-second year, 1100 H.), as given in the 
* Ma,asir-i-*Alamgiri,* 320, is as follows: She^ Nizam (Muqarrab TThan ) was 
sent against Fort Pamalah. He heard Sambha Ji was going from Raheri to 
Fort Khelnah to attack the BairSgis (a class oifaqlrs), with whom he had a quarrel. 
Sambha Ji was at Sangamner. The Khan advanced from Sholapur, forty-five kos 
off, by a forced march. Sambha Ji was warned, but merely scoffed. A fight 
took place, when Kab Kalish was shot with an arrow and captured. Sambha Ji hid 
in Kab Kalish’ house and was caught there. The capture was reported to Aurang- 
zeb at Akloj (renamed Sa'dnagar). Orme, ‘ Historical Fragments,’ edition 1805, 
p. 164, also mentions the binding on a camel, and the parading round the camp 
with rattle and bells. But probably Orme got it from Manucci via Catrou, 
P 184. 



312 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDCSTAN 


dunghill and abandoned to the tender mercies of the dogs. Thus 
did the licentious Sambha Ji pay for interfering with others.^ 

It seemed as if the death of Sambha Jl was bound to secure 
Aurangzeb’s lordship over all the lands of Hindustan down to 
the sea. But the commanders of valorous Shiva JI, father of 
this unfortunate man, were by this time practised in fighting 
the Moguls, and expert in the way of dealing with those 
foreigners (? Persians and Central Asians) who deserted from 
his side. They determined to continue the campaign and 
uphold the cause of Ram Raja, younger brother of the deceased. 
Therefore they took him out of prison and made him their prince. 

This determination caused a revolution in the principality, 
for the mother^ of Sambha Ji, who had sons by her husband, 
claimed the government during the minority of those sons. She 
asserted that the crown belonged to them ; but the commanders 
turned a deaf ear and sided with Rama Raja,^ or, to adopt the 
usual way of speaking, of the newly selected Shiva JI. In this 
way the princess was forced to have recourse to the Mogul, to 
whom she delivered herself up and her sons, along with over 
twenty-two forts, in this way taking the nerve out of her 
competitors. 

It seemed as if now the matter was decided, for the princess 
had a number of leading officers on her side. Aurangzeb 
detained the princess in his [247] camp, and sent to take pos- 
session in his own name of the ceded forts. He also ordered 
out a large force against the fort of Parnalaguer (Parnalagarh), 
a fortress defending the frontier of Bljapur.^ It is placed 

^ Sambha Ji: according to the ‘ Ma,§.sir-i-*Alamgiri,’ pp. 320-326, the capture 
was made on the 4th Rabi* I. of the thirty-second year, 1100 H. (December 28, 

1688, N.S.). He arrived in the imperial camp on the loth JamadS. (March 3, 
1689), and his execution took place on the 21st or 28th Jamada I. (March 14 or 21, 

1689, N.S.). 

2 For ‘ mother,* I think we ought to read ‘ wife,* 

® RSja R§jn, usually styled RSm R§ja, son of ShivS. Ji by another wife, was 
bom about 1670, and died in March, 1700, SambhS, Ji left three sons; the 
eldest, SahQ, was bom in 1684, and died in 1750. 

* Panalah, or Pamela, is, according to Grant-Duff, p. 62, * in the Kolhapur 
district.’ Orme, ‘Historical Fragments,’ 1805, speaks of it as ‘one of the 
strongest forts in the Concan.* Probably it is the same as the Pamala of 
Tieffenthaler (Bemouilli, i. 362, with a plate), a fort on a hill. 



THE MAHRATTAHS PERSIST 


313 


on an eminence and is very strong, and once before this time 
Sultan Mu‘izz-ud-dln, when attacking it, had been so badly 
repulsed by the bravery of its garrison that he was obliged to 
retreat for twenty-four hours without a halt, through fear of the 
enemy who were at his heels. 

This force went against the fortress, but Shiva Ji ( = Ram 
Raja) never ceased rushing about everywhere with the officers 
who sided with him, and everywhere succeeded in his enter- 
prises. Finally, when the Mogul army was scattered, he came 
and occupied the fortress of Gingi (JinjT)^ in the Choromandel 
Karnatik, and there fixing himself, his faithful captains did not 
fail to operate with energy. Then, to get rid of a stone of 
stumbling and give an opening for those who had deserted the 
princess (Sambha JI’s widow) to take up the cause of Shiva 
Jl Ram Raja), they played off an imposture on the 
impostor, and paid out the old fox with cunning equal to 
his own. 

The affair happened in this way. The officers at the fortress 
of Parnalagarh saw that Aurang^eb’s force, though it had no 
intention of raising the investment, yet could not take the 
fortress, which was too well provisioned. Accordingly they 
sent envoys to inform Aurang^eb of their willingness to surrender 
the fortress, finding he was so tenacious about acquiring it. 
But they desired to deliver it into the hands of the princess 
and her sons, if she would come in person to take possession. 
The victor imagined they were speaking the truth, and sent 
Sambha Jfs family to the said fortress along with the 
princess [except the eldest son, whom he detained as a 
prisoner].^ 

Upon their arrival there was a great festival and much 
rejoicing. But before giving up the fortress they asked that, 
according to custom, they might issue invitations for some 
days’ festivity. This being a very, reasonable request, the 
officers of Aurangzeb made no difficulties in conceding it. The 
entertainments began with a great banquet, Shiva Jfs officers 
going out and in. On the third day they mixed so much poison 

1 Grant-Duff, 163, 164. Raja Ram escaped to Jinji in i6go. 

2 The words in brackets have been added in French in the margin. 



314 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


with the food that before the fourth day dawned the princess, 
her sons, and many of Aurangjzeb’s officers were dead.^ 

Next morning the officers and soldiers issued from the fortress 
and fell upon the enemy’s force with such valour and vigour that 
their army was routed, being deprived of its officers (as it was) 
and quite unsuspicious. The tents and treasure were appro- 
priated. Aurangzeb was much concerned at this trick, but to 
repent himself of having believed them was now too late ; and 
this deed [248] was a reason for many of the officers in the 
princess’s faction declaring themselves once more enemies of 
the Mogul. They joined Shiva Ji (Ram Raja), and thus in 
one thousand six hundred and eighty-nine the war recommenced 
with greater fury. It was not enough for Aurangzeb to have 
made himself master of Bijapur and of Gulkandah ; he must 
needs oppress a little prince, who yet was strong enough to 
compel so potent a king to remain away from his kingdom 
Hindustan) and dwell in camp merely to prevent the loss of his 
previous conquests. 

Aurangzeb removes the Eyes of Shahab-ud-din Khan. 

This was the time at which Aurangzeb, seeing Sambha JI 
was dead and the princes delivered into his hands, imagined 
he no longer needed his generals. Therefore he sent for the 
great Shahab-ud-dIn Khan, who was away elsewhere on a cam- 
paign against Shiva Jl. But this general, who now found 
himself great, rich, and beloved by all the soldiers and captains, 
answered that his presence was necessary for the reduction of 
a fortress called Adunl.^ 

Aurangzeb was afraid that this general meant to attempt 
some plot, and after two or three letters recalling him to court, 
finding he made excuses, he sent him one more letter directing 

1 This is quite unhistorical. The princess, Sambha Ji’s widow, and her 
younger children remained prisoners until 1719, while S§hu, the eldest son, was 
released in 1707. 

2 Aduni is in the BallSri district, lat. 15® 38', long. 77“ 20'. The fort was taken 
by Tippu, and dismantled in 1786. Khan Bahadur, Firoz Jang (Shahab-ud-din), 
was sent against Aduui in the thirty -first year, 1099 (between January and 
June, 1688). It was taken on the i8th ShawwaJ of the thirty-second yoar, 1099 H. 
(August 7, 1688) (‘ Ma,asir-i-‘Alamgiri,’ 308, 316). 



RAM RAJ A BESIEGED IN JINJI 315 

him to return absolutely. On reading the said letter, this 
famous general’s eyes began to drop blood, whereby he became 
blind.^ Nor were the remedies of any avail that were sent him 
by the selfsame Aurangzeb to be applied to his eyes ; for he 
had found by this time that he wanted him, since Shiva JI 
(i.e., the Mahrattahs) had deceived him in the matter of Parna- 
lagarh, which he had reckoned on getting. His repentance 
was somewhat tardy, for already the general had become blind, 
remaining so to the end of his life, and he could not, for. want 
of sight, continue his deeds of valour and good judgment.® 

It is fit ting for me to say here that I know no one who can 
boast of having attained to perfect trust in the administration 
of Aurangzeb, unless it be Asad !Oian,® he who was faithful to 
Shahjahan, and is a loyal minister to this same Aurangzeb. 
Up to this day he prospers ; but we can only judge finally after 
his death. This noble will indeed be a phoenix in the reign of 
Aurangzeb, whose renown others may recount hereafter, if he 
ends his life felicitously [249]. 

As Aurangzeb wanted to catch the lion’s whelp before he 
grew up, he sent an army into the Choromandal Karnatik to 
prevent Shiva Ji’s [t.e.. Ram Raja’s] departure from JinjI.* 
He hoped to destroy him within that great fortress. For this 
purpose he sent Julfecercan (Zu,lfiqar !^an), son of Asad 
•glinn , and other commanders; but Shiva Ji being well 

1 In the * Ma,asir>ul-Umar£L,’ ii, 872, it is stated that Ghazi-ud-din Khan 
(Mir Shahab-ud-din), Firoz Jang, became blind from plague in the thirty-second 
year of ‘Alamgir, 1100 H. (1688-89). The author of that book vehemently 
denies a story then current that ‘Alamgir persuaded the physicians to put out 
Firoz Jang’s sight. 

3 This statement is quite mistaken, GhSizi-ud-din Khan remained in active 
employment till his death, about 1710 ; the only difference made was his being 
excused from appearing in darbar, 

^ Asad and his son, being Persians, were used by Aurangzeb as a 

counterpoise to Ghazi-ud-din KhSn and his relations, who were Muj^s from 
Bu^ara. Asad Khan remained chief minister to the end of the reign (1707), 
surviving Aurangzeb for ten years. His son was Amir-ul-umara, or second 
minister, to Bahadur Shah, Shah ‘Alarn (1707-1712), and chief minister to 
Jahandar Shah (1712). Muhammad Ibrahim, Asad Khan, subsequently Amir- 
ul-umara, and then Asaf-ud-daulah, died on the 25th Jamada II., 1128 H. 
(June 17, 1716), at a great age. 

* Jinji, lat. 12® 16', long. 79® 27', eighty-two miles south-west of Madras. 



3i6 of king AURASGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


provisioned, Zu,lfiqar could not accomplish his task. In 
writing his report to the king, he stated the necessity of re- 
inforcements ; therefore Aurangzeb sent his youngest son 
Kaembacx (Kam Ba^sh)^ to command, accompanied by Asad 
!^an himself. 

The fortress was already about to surrender. But if the war 
were ended many soldiers would fall out of employ, and their 
officers be without income ; so they managed to make it appear 
that Kam BaJAsh was in correspondence with Shiva JT (Ram 
Raja), and meant to forsake his father and desert to the 
Mahrattahs. Two days before the fortress was to be made 
over Asad San carried off Kam Ba^sh a prisoner to Aurangzeb. 
The latter imagined it to be true that his son meant to rebel, 
and was much concerned. But as he (Kam BaSsh) was his 
youngest, and son of his beloved Udepuri, he showed no resent- 
ment.- At this fact the reader may well be astonished, knowing 
from the course of my history how Aurangzeb forgave no one 
who attempted to oppose his designs. 

Meanwhile Zu,lfiqar San continues until this day in the 
Karnatik as viceroy, without having reduced the fortress of 
Jinji. This went on until Aurangzeb, angry at seeing that in 
eight years he could not take this strong place, wrote him re- 
neated letters, when he so conducted matters that Shiva Jl 
(Ram Raja) was able to escape.^ If the generals had obeyed 
the king’s orders, there can be no doubt that the campaign 
w’ould be already over. With the great treasures he had and 
the large army he kept on foot, Aurangzeb could have made 

^ Kam Ba^sh was sent to Jinji on the 9th Ramazan, 1102 H., thirty-fifth year 
(June 6, 1691, N.S ). He returned to court firom Jinji on the 20th Shawwfil, 
1x04 H.. thirty-seventh year (June 25, 1693, N.S.) (‘M.-i-‘A.,* 339, 359). 

^ Zu.lfiqar Khan, at Kam Ba^sh’s arrest, behaved with unnecessary brutality, 
calling him a pisar-i-mutribah^ ' a dancing woman's child,’ struck him in the face, 
and put him in chains (Yahya Khan. * T^kirah-ul-MulQk,’ India Office Library, 
fol. Ilia). The arrest was in 1104 H. (1692-93) (‘M.-i-‘A.,* 359). A courtier 
muttered the appropriate line : 

* There is a joy in forgiving that there is not in punishing,’ 

and Aurangzeb seized the opening, and imposed no penalties on his son. 

Grant-Duff, 171, says Jinji was taken by escalade early in January, 1698. 
Ram Raja escaped through the Mogul lines in December, 1697. 



A NINE YEARS^ SIEGE 


317 


much greater conquests. For in spite of Shiva JI (Ram 
Raja) being at this day stronger than his father (Sambha JI), it 
would be quite easy to destroy him. But this suits neither 
the interests of the officers nor the purposes of Aurangzeb’s 
sons. 

These latter know they will have to struggle with their 
brothers for the crown by force of arms, and they do not wish 
to get rid of that prince (RSm Raja), hoping at the proper time 
to be able to carry out their plots. Among those who want to 
preserve Shiva JI (Ram Raja), it is of certain knowledge that 
A‘zam Tara must be counted as the principal, and it may well 
happen that before this my book is laid before the eyes of the 
learned, I may be able to record the end of this [250] war, and 
the disappearance of Aurangzeb. 

My third book (? Part) will explain the way in which the 
generals and commanders behave in Hindustan. They aim 
only at their personal advantage, and ordinarily make no 
account of the royal commands, except only when it is necessary 
in order not to be expressly found out as traitors. But let us 
leave this subject for another time, and go on with the con- 
tinuation of the war waged by Aurangzeb against Shiva Jl 
(Ram Raja), leaving Zu,lfiqar Stan behind in this Karnatik 
to continue the contest with Shiva JI and back up him (Aurang- 
zeb) in these parts. 


Release of Shah ‘Alam and his Sons. 

Aurangzeb with his army continued the campaign against 
Shiva JI (the Mahrattahs), but his operations were more de- 
fensive than offensive. For that prince (Ram Raja) followed 
his father’s plan of avoiding a meeting in the field, and instead 
plundered in all directions without ever allowing any rest to 
Aurangzeb’s forces. The generals were forced to rush with re- 
inforcements wherever they heard that Shiva Jl was pillaging. 
While they were advancing to the east, that prince would 
appear all of a sudden on the west, and this was his invariable 
custom. 

Meanwhile there appeared in the lands of Bengal a rajah 



3 i 8 of KISG AURASGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDOSTIN 


called Saba Singh (Sobha Singh), ^ who raised a great disturb- 
ance in the province, slaying governors and seizing treasures, 
taking possession of lands, and penetrating as far as Rage- 
mahal (Raj-mahal). Owing to these events, Aurangzeb was 
forced to send a second army against him, but this army 
suffered worse. From this cause Aurangzeb already began to 
consider the release of Shah *Alam and his family. Although 
it was not done with a good grace, he was obliged to do it ; for 
news was brought to him that Sultan Sulaiman,* King of Persia, 
had given a golden crown to Akbar, and promised to favour 
his claim to the throne. He said he would take Akbar’s side 
against his father Aurangzeb. 

On the arrival of this news at court, Aurangzeb, who knew 
Akbar’s enterprising character, resolved to depute Shah ‘Alam 
against him at the head of a great army in defence of Hindu- 
stan. To resist the rajah in Bengal he determined to send 
*Azim-ud-dIn, the second son of Shah ‘Alam, thus separating 
father and son. But the reader will like to know the way in 
which Aurangzeb sent off these princes. 

Their release took place on a Friday^ without [251] anybody 
knowing of the intention, for fear that A‘zam Tara, a rash and 
determined prince, might not, on learning of his brother’s 
release, head an outbreak which would throw the kingdom 
into confusion. Therefore, very early, long before the usual 
hour, he (Aurangzeb) started for the mosque, and called into 
his presence Shah ^Alam and his sons without sending 

1 In 1107 H. (1695-96) Sobha Singh, zamindar of Chetwah and Bardah, in the 
BardwSLn district, rose and killed the Rajah (Kishan Ram). He and his Path§,n 
allies, under Rahim Khan. Bini, then took possession of Hugli. The Europeans 
at Chinsurah, Chandamagore, and Chuttanati (Calcutta) fortified their factories. 
Murshidabad was taken, and the rebels reached within ten miles of Calcutta 
(C. Stewart, ‘History of Bengal,’ 328-336; Ghulam Husain, Salim, ‘Riyaz-us- 
Salatin,’ * Bibliotheca Indica,’ 224-226). 

Sulaiman, Safawi, reigned 1667-1694. 

^ According to Jag Jivan Das, ’ Munta^ab-ut-Tawarikh. * British Museum, 
Additional MS., No. 26,253, fol. 366, they were released on the 5th Shawwal, 
1105 H. (May 30, 1694, N.S.). The place was Bijapur, and the mosque story is 
confirmed by Jag Jivan Das, who wrote in 1719. The river Bhima is about 
fifty miles north of Bijapur. The prince reached Agrah on the 9th Shawwal, 
thirty- ninth year, 1106 H. (May 23, 1695). 



SHAH ^ILAM SENT TO AGRAH AND KABUL 


319 


word to A‘zam Tara. The king was already in the mosque 
with Shah ‘xllam on his right hand, a post where A‘zam 
Tara had been accustomed to stand during his brother’s 
captivity. 

Then spies reported to A‘zam Tara that the king, his father, 
had already begun his prayers, and he issued forth in all haste, 
and went also to the mosque. But seeing that his brother 
occupied the place usually held by himself, he angrily took up 
his position at the back, and, hurrying through his orisons, 
made his exit, resolved to raise a disturbance. But Aurangzeb, 
like the clever politician he was, directly the prayers were over, 
started in company with his son (Shah ‘Alam) as far as the 
river Bimbara ( Bhimra). Thence without delaying he furnished 
him with a retinue, and ordered him under his own eyes to 
cross to the other side of the river. He received orders to 
march and take up the government of Hindustan. Letters 
followed, directing the governors to obey his orders ; the king 
also forwarded his baggage after him, and further retinue 
afterwards. For time did not allow of his being detained 
near him (Aurangzeb) until, all these matters were put in 
order. 

At the same time he ordered ^Azlm-ud-dln to cross the river 
with his father, and then separating from him to make for 
Bengal.^ Thus he deprived A‘zam Tara of any opening for 
perpetrating a misdeed. There can be no doubt that if any 
king ever had recourse to foresight to prevent disorder, it was 
Aurangzeb. 

The Villagers of Agrah burn the Bones of 
King Akbar. 

King Aurangzeb had his worries, which are unavoidable by the 
great, who, delighting in lording it, get hold at times of very hard 
bones to digest. One of these worries arose from the villagers 
of Agrah, of whom we have spoken several times (I. 83, II. 59). 
But their daring had never reached such a pitch as it did in 

^ The ‘Ma,asir-i-‘Alamgiri* does not confirm this; it places the appointment 
later — ^in 1109 H., forty-first year (1697-98) (p. 387). 



330 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDOSTIN 

one thousand six hundred and ninety-one. On other occasions 
they had contented themselves by declining to pay revenue: 
this time they did the greatest affront possible to the house and 
lineage of Taimur-i-lang [252]; for, seizing the occasion of 
Aurangzeb being in the Dakhin near to Bijapur, they proved 
that they cared neither for his power, his policy, nor his 
governors. They planned, and succeeded in, a very bold 
undertaking. 

Already angered by the demands of the governors and faujdars 
for revenue, a great number of them assembled and marched 
to the mausoleum of that great conqueror, Akbar. Against 
him living they could effect nothing ; they therefore wreaked 
vengeance on his sepulchre. They began their pillage by 
breaking in the great gates of bronze which it had, robbing 
the valuable precious stones and plates (lastras) of gold and 
silver, and destroying what they were not able to carry away. 
Dragging out the bones of Akbar, they threw them angrily into 
the fire and burnt them.^ 

Aurangzeb was much afflicted at this piece of boldness and 
this outrage. It also gave him other anxieties, for he foresaw 
that when the villagers were masters of the roads between 
Agrah and Dihli, not a soul would be allowed to pass. He 
was, therefore, obliged to send his foster-brother Badercan 

1 The only other author who speaks precisely about the plundering of Akbar’s 
tomb is Ishar D5s, Nagar, in his ‘ FatGh§.t-i-*Alamgiri/ British Museum, Additional 
MS., No. 23,884, fol. 13 la et seq. The first attempt by Rajah Ram, jat, of 
Sansani, was repulsed by the Jaujddr, Mir Abu,l-fazl, who was rewarded with 
the title of Iltifet Khfin. Mahabat ghd.n. on his way from GujargLt to his new 
government of Labor, was encamped at Sikandrah, and, taking the field against 
the J§.ts, killed 400 of them. At this time Sh^stah Khan, the Emperor's uncle, 
was appointed Governor; but, before he took charge, the jSts renewed their 
attack on Sikandrah, and plundered the tomb, taking the carpets, with the silver 
and gold vessels, and damaging most of the tombs and the mausoleum. The Deputy 
Governor, Muhammad Baqa (Muzafiar KhSn). did nothing, and, with the retiring 
Governor, Kh&n JahSn, Bahadur, fell under Aurangzeb’s displeasure. Bishn 
Singh, Rajah of Amber, was then employed against Sansani ; but Rajah, Jat, was 
killed in a fight between the Shekawats and the Chohans, for which he had hired 
himself out to one of the parties. The year is apparently 1098 or 1099 H. 
(16S6-87). But Churaman, brother of Rajah Ram, was still carrying on the fight 
in 1102 H. (1690-91). 



SHAISTAH SSAN dies, 1694 


321 


(Bahadur Khan).^ Although brave, this man recognised that 
he could do nothing against the tenacity of such ferocious 
beasts. He therefore called in the grandsons of Rajah Jai 
Singh and many other Rajahs, so that at the least the villagers 
might be forced to retreat. He could not manage an3d:hing 
more without heavy casualties in his force, and without entirely 
ruining the lands. Even this much was not easy, nor was it 
desirable to reduce these lands to uninhabited waste. He 
managed to make them retreat without attempting anything 
more against them. 

Death of Shaistah I^an. 

Five years after the above occurrence died the famous 
Shaistah !^an,* son of Asaf lOian, but not by the same mother 
as Nur-mahal, or Nur Jahan, sister of Shaistah !^an — she was 
the beloved wife of King Jahangir. When the said king was 
told that the mother of Shaistah l^an was pregnant, he was 
very glad, and he resolved that if she brought forth a son he 
would at once assign him pay of three millions of rupees a 
year. He was born in the year one thousand six hundred, and 
received the title of Shaistah l^an, which means * Perfect,’ 
and he continued to draw the above pay until he reached his 
majority. 

When Shahjahan married his sister of the full blood Shaistah 
!| 0 ^an received an addition of a million [253] every year. Then 
Aurangzeb married one of his sisters, and on his accession to 
the throne gave him an augmentation of another million. 

1 Early in the thirty-first year, 1099 H, {1687-88), Prince Bedfir Ba^t and 
Khan Jahfin, BahgLdur, Zafar Jang («>, Bahfidur Khan), were sent against Rajah 
Ram, jat, of Sansam. The place was taken on July 14, 1688 ('Ma.asir-i- 
‘Alamgiri,’ 311). 

^ AbQ Talib, entitled, first, Shaistah Khan, then TGian Jahan, then Amir-ul- 
umara, son of Yamln-ud-daulah, Asaf Khan. Khan Khanan. Sipahsalar, son of 
I*timad-ud-daulah, Ghiyas Beg, TihranI, died in the middle of 1105 H. (February 
or March, 1694}, ^hile Subahdar of Agrah. His age was ninety-one (lunar) 
years, and he was maternal uncle of Aurangzeb. His father died in 105X H. 
He was son-in-law of Mirza Iraj, Shah Nawaz Khan, son of ‘Abd-ur-rahim, 
Khan Khanan (‘ Tari^-i-Muhammadi,* 1105). As before, Manned wrongly calls 
him the brother, instead of the nephew, of Nur Jahan. 

VOL. II. 


21 



322 OF KING AURANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 


This was in addition to the large presents that the king made 
to him. 

This Shaistah Khan lived for ninety-five years and had many 
sons and daughters, all of whom married into the best families 
of Hindustan. Up to this day there are a number of his 
descendants, his sons occupying great offices in the empire. 
Shaistah Khan was a man of ripe judgment, very wealthy and 
powerful, and of good reputation, for he was very charitable, 
distributing every year in alms fifty thousand rupees. For this 
purpose, in each of the principal cities of the empire he em- 
ployed officials, who looked after the daily gifts of food and 
clothes to the most necessitous of the poor, and succoured the 
widow and the orphan. 

He constructed on the river at Narwar,^ on the route from 
Agrah to the Dakhin, a large bridge as his memorial. For its 
completion, in spite of his employing many officials, five-and^ 
twenty years were required. Shaistah Khan was very fond of 
Europeans, above all of the priests ; he was loved and respected 
by everj’one, and he was a great amateur of precious stones. 
He died in the year one thousand six hundred and ninety-five, 
leaving to his heirs a large fortune. He gave their liberty to a 
thousand women, adding as a gift sufficient for their support. 
To Aurangzeb he made a bequest of two hundred millions of 
coin in gold and silver, two hundred millions of jewels, over 
two millions in goods and household furnishings, elephants, 
camels, and horses. He was buried in the tomb of his father, 
Asaf ©an, in the city of Agrah. 

Akbar comes from Persia and then retreats. 

Shah Milam’s arrival in Hindustan was well timed, for a 
false rumour having got abroad that Aurangzeb was dead, 
Akbar advanced at the head of twelve thousand Persian horse- 
men to test his fortunes. But encountering the great army 
of Sh^ *Alam not far from Multan, he was obliged to retreat. 

^ Tieffenthaler (Bemouilli, i. 179, and Plate XX., opposite p. 320) ; ‘Un pont 
elegant constniit en pierres de taille sur le Sindh, porte par 24 arches hautes et 
larges, dont 3 ou 4 sont detniites aujourd’hui {drca 1750 ?), par la violence des 
pluies.’ The plate shows only thirteen atrches. 



PRINCE AKBAR THREATENS AN INVASION 323 

Then it was heard that he had halted at the fortress of 
Qandahar, within Persian territory, there to await his father’s 
death. Since that time, as it would appear, there has been no 
want of people to collect and espouse his cause. Therefore 
Shah ‘Alam continued [in those regions] with his sons and 
family, excepting ‘Apm-ud-din. He did not remain in one 
fixed place, but scattering [254] his troops, kept watch, so that 
his brother Akbar might not invade India. 

Things went well with Shah ‘Alam, favoured by Fortune 
as also with his son, Sultan ‘Aglm-ud-din, in Bengal. The 
latter, imitating his grandfather, denuded the rajah little by 
little until the rebel was forced to retire into his own 
country.^ 

It now remains to remark that when Akbar fled he left 
behind him two daughters. Aurangzeb married one to Sultan 
Mu*izz-ud-dln, and the other to SuftSn ‘Aglm-ud-dln.® It is 
not known why he carried out these marriages. Another 
matter having reference to Akbar is that, when he took flight, 
he left in the hands and under the protection of the famous 
Rani, widow of Jaswant Singh, two pregnant wives, who both 
gave birth to sons. Repeated excuses were made for not send- 
ing the little ones to Aurangzeb ; the Rani hoped that Akbar 
would return from Persia and make himself king. In the 
end, finding that this prince never came, she sent them to 
be delivered to their grandfather. ^ It was an amusement to 
the old man to get two grandchildren who could speak nothing 
but the RajpQt tongue, which differs from that used at the 
court. He gave them establishments, and kept them lovingly 
near his person. Aurangzeb was very anxious to draw Akbar 
back to the Mogul kingdom, and with this view he went on 
writing him friendly letters with invitations to return. Promises 

^ This refers to SobhS, Singh {antCf ii. 210), who was killed by a woman 
captive. The rising was suppressed by Zabardast Trh 3 . n, son of Ibrahim Khan, 
the previous Governor of Bengal. 

2 I cannot find any confirmation of the asserted marriages of two daughters 
of Akbar to Mu'izz-ud-din and ‘Azim-ud-din. There were certainly two daughters 
captured in 1681. There were three children — one son and two daughters — bom 
in Rajputanah ; the boy was surrendered by Durga Das, Rathor, in May, 1689, 
and the youth died in prison at Ahmadnagar in 1706 (‘ 209, 395), 

21 — 2 



324 OF KIS'G A URANGZEB, SIXTH KING OF HINDUSTAN 

were given to make him master from Bhakkar as far as Tattah, 
which is the province of Sind. But he knew his father’s nature, 
and up to this day (? 1700) has put faith neither in his letters 
nor his promises. 

Thus do matters go on in the Mogul kingdom ; sons, grand- 
sons, and great-grandsons are making preparations for the 
terrible wars which must ensue upon the death of the old 
king. For there are many aspirants to dominion, it being 
among them a saying that in such a case a father should not 
trust a son, nor a son his father. 

The thing most to be wondered at in my History is the 
wisdom of Aurangzeb, who, in spite of being an old man 
of eightj’-four years, knows how to regulate affairs with such 
skill that he maintains himself as king against the will of 
so many claimants; and at this great age he still mounts 
on horseback [255]. 

I know quite well that some in reading this History will 
comment on my leaving the Mogul country so many times 
and then going back. Some \vill say to themselves that in 
those lands there must be some delectable fields which caused 
my return there. But in reality, granting that by God’s favour 
I did have the luck to attain some good fortune, yet never had I 
any desire to settle there. For, of a truth, they have nothing 
that can delight or win people from Europe, or make them 
desire to live there. The country is not good for the body, 
much less for the soul; for the body, because it is requisite 
to live ever on the qtd vive and keep your eyes open, since 
no one ever says a word to be relied upon. It is continuously 
requisite to think the worst and believe the contrary of what 
is said; for it is the habit there absolutely to act according 
to the proverb of my country, * Pleasant words, sad actions.’ 
They deceive both the acute and the careless ; thus, when they 
show themselves the greatest friends, you require to be doubly 
careful. 

The country is not good for the soul, as much from the 
licence one has there as firom the absence of Catholic obser- 
vances. Thus, when I could leave it, I did so; nor should 
I ever have gone back there had I not been forced by necessity. 



XXI. Sultan Sikandar, Son of Shah Shuja‘. 


Vol. //. 


To face page 324 





GENERAL REFLECTIONS 


3^5 


I offer up many thanks to God that at length He granted me 
means to deliver myself; and I assure the reader that few 
Europeans could live there with the advantages and honours 
I was able to achieve. Nor let him be led away by the hope 
that, resorting thither, he would be able to improve himself 
in any degree. For few indeed are they who return thence 
bettered, and many are those who have been made worse. 


END OF PART II. 




THE THIRD PART^ 


OF THE 

HISTORY OF THE MOGUL 


BY 

NICOLAS MANOUCHY, Venetian, 

First Physician to Shah ‘Alam, eldest son of Aurangzeb 


WHEREIN IS GIVEN AN EXACT ACCOUNT OF THE 
RICHES AND GRANDEUR OF THE MOGULS AND 
THE HINDU PRINCES, HIS NEIGHBOURS, 
WITH MANY CURIOUS DETAILS AND 
REMARKABLE EVENTS 


[The Phillips MS., 1945, bears at the top. * Collegii Paris. Societ. Jesu.* and 
on the margin of the first page, ‘ Paragraphs au devis de Tarrest du 5 Juillet, 
1763. — ^Mesnil.’] 


1 The Third Part begins in French, and so goes on up to f. 66, when it 
continues in Portuguese. There is an abridgment of this part in F. Catrou, 
4to. edition of 1705, pp. 232-272. Part III. begins on fol. 149 of the Venice 
Codex XLIV. in Italian, and has no headings. 





HISTORY OF THE MOGUL 

THIRD PART 


Although by perusal of the first two parts it is easy to learn 
the riches, the grandeur, and the policy of the Mogul kings and 
those of the other princes of Hindustan, their neighbours, still, 
as those subjects are scattered here and there throughout the 
History, I have not thought it useless to write a separate book. 
It forms the subject of this Third Part of my History ; it will, 
I feel assured, be a great help and most useful to those who 
undertake a journey to India to see those far-off lands. I 
pledge my word that if before starting they will take the 
trouble to read what is here written, they will be able after- 
wards to judge whether I have faithfully aided Europeans by 
the investigations and observations which I here communicate. 

I must add to these remarks that my object in writing has 
not been merely to satisfy the curiosity of readers, but to be of 
use to them. This is the reason that I have not relied on the 
knowledge of others ; and I have spoken of nothing which I 
have not seen or undergone during the space of forty-eight 
years that I have dwelt in Hindustan. Nor have I remained 
in one place, but have been always travelling, holding an 
honourable and lucrative post, which has given me the means 
of acquiring a more exact knowledge of ever3fthing occurring 
in this vast empire. 

I have decided to give in this Third Part: first, an exact 
description of the maj^al, or Mogul seraglio [2-22] ; secondly, 
an account of the ruler’s policy, and how he deals with the 
kings and princes who are his vassals [22-49] 5 thirdly, I shall 
speak of the kingdoms and provinces dependent upon the 

329 



330 


THE MOGUL COURT 


Mogul — what are the rents and revenues of each separately, and 
other notable things [49-59]; fourthly, I shall say something 
about the chief rajahs or princelings either within or round 
about this empire [59-89] ; fifthly, I shall give a short account 
of the Hindu religion [90-136]; sixthly, I shall offer some 
remarks on elephants and other animals [144-155] ; seventhly 
and lastly, I shall report certain curious events which have 
happened in India [155 to end]. 

Most Europeans imagine that the grandeur of kings and 
princes in other parts of the world cannot compare with what 
is found at the courts of their sovereigns. Excluding the 
principal ones — ^those of the Emperor, the King of France, 
and the King of Spain — nowhere else can be found, as they 
think, those airs of grandeur and of majesty which follow in 
a sovereign’s train. But, without speaking of the Emperor 
of China’s court, which, according [2] to the accounts we have, 
is extremely splendid and majestuous, I assert that in the 
Mogul kingdom the nobles, and above all the king, live with 
such ostentation that the most sumptuous of European courts 
cannot compare in richness and magnificence with the lustre 
beheld in the Indian court. 


Customs of the Royal Household, and the Way of 

DEALING WITH THE PEOPLE LIVING IN THE PaIACE, 

commonly called the Mahal, oe Seraglio. 

Ordinarily there are within the maial two thousand women 
of different races. Each has her office or special duties, either 
in attendance on the king, his wives, his daughters, or his 
concubines. To rule and maintain order among this last 
class, each one is assigned her own set of rooms, and matrons 
are placed over them. In addition, each has usually attached 
to her ten or twelve women servants, who are selected from the 
above-named women. 

The matrons have generally three, four, or five hundred 
rupees a month as pay, according to the dignity of the post 
they occupy. The servants under their orders have from fifty 
up to two hundred rupees a month. In addition to these 



THE ROYAL HOUSEHOLD 


331 


matrons, there are the female superintendents of music and 
their women players ; these have about the same pay more or 
less, besides the presents they receive from the princes and 
princesses, whose names I will record lower down, in order 
to divert the reader by a little variety. Among them are some 
who teach reading and writing to the princesses, and usually 
what they dictate to them are amorous verses. Or the ladies 
obtain relaxation in reading books called ‘Gulistan’ and 
‘ Bostan,* written by an author called Sec Sadi Chiragi (Shekh 
Sa^dl, Shlrazi), and other books treating of love, very 
much the same as our romances, only they are still more 
shameless. 

The way in which these kings are waited on by these women 
in their mai^al deserves mention. For, just as the king has his 
officers outside, he has the same among the fair sex within the 
makaL Among these ladies are some who occupy the same 
offices that are held by grandees outside; and it is by the 
mouth of these illustrious persons, when the king does not 
come forth, that the officials outside receive the orders sent 
them from within. All the persons employed in these offices 
are carefully selected ; they have much wit and judgment, and 
know all that is passing in the empire. For the officials out- 
side are required to send written reports into the ma^al of all 
that the king ought to know. To these reports the women 
officials reply as directed by that prince. And to carry this 
out there are eunuchs who take out and bring back the 
sealed letters written from one side to the other on these 
matters. 

It is also a fixed rule of the Moguls that the vaquianavis 
{waqi*ah-navls) and the cofianavis {Mvnfiyah-navls\ or the public 
and secret news-writers of the empire, must once a week enter 
what is passing in a vaquia (^usaqi^ah ) — ^that is to say, a sort of 
gazette or Mercury, containing the events of most importance. 
These news-letters are commonly read in the king’s presence 
by women of the mahal at about nine o’clock in the evening, 
so that by this means be knows what is going on in his king- 
dom. There are, in addition, spies, who are also obliged to 
send in reports weekly about other important business, chiefly 



332 


THE KING^S EXPENDITURE 


what the princes are doing, and this duty they perform through 
written statements- 

The king sits up till midnight, and is unceasingly occupied 
with the above sort of business. He sleeps for three hours 
only, and on awakening offers up his usual prayers [3], which 
occupy an hour and a half. Every year he goes into peni- 
tential retirement for forty days, during which he sleeps on the 
ground, he fasts, he gives alms — ^the whole to secure from God 
continuance of victory and the accomplishment of his designs. 
But, nowadays, being old and his enemies hindering him from 
undertaking an5^hing, he must perforce remain at rest. Not- 
withstanding, he never fails every morning to consider and 
give orders as to what should be done. Thus in the 
twenty-four hours his rule is to eat once and sleep three 
hours. During sleep he is guarded by women slaves, very 
brave, and highly skilled in the management of the bow and 
other arms. 

Every day one thousand rupees are disbursed for the ex- 
penses of the king’s kitchen, and the officials are required to 
furnish therefrom all that is necessary. They have to lay 
before the prince a fixed number of ragouts and different dishes 
in vessels of China porcelain placed on gold stands. As a 
great favour the king sends of these, or of what is left over, 
to the queens and princesses and the captains of the guard. 
This honour is always dearly paid for, since the eunuchs who 
convey the food never fail to get themselves well rewarded. 
When the king is in an enemy’s country, where provisions are 
dear, the total expense is disregarded. There must always be 
produced a certain fixed number of ragouts ; so much is this 
the case that on the march there is no control over the expen- 
diture. But in the mai^al the queens, the princesses, and all 
the other women have their separate allowances. 

Since I have promised to give a list of the various names, 
and their different meanings, of the titles that the Mogul kings 
give to the queens and princesses, to their concubines, to the 
chief matrons, to the dancing-women, to the singing-women, 
and to the slaves of the mahal^ I think it advisable to begin at 
this point. 



NAMES OF QUEENS AND PRINCESSES 


333 


The principal names given by the kings to the queens and 
the princesses, with their meanings, are : 


Taige Mahal 
Nur Mahal 
Nur Jahan 
Farsana Begom 
Akabarabady 
Orangbady Begom 
Nawab B^igi 
Udepury 
Guescuor 
Chater Matz 
Jany Begom 
Maha Canon 


Cha Canon 
Fiar Conda Canon 
Pnr onor Begom 
Ada Begom 
Fasela Canon 
Cha adma Canon 
Nur nechan Canon 

Jefea Canon 
Nafesa Canon 

Dur Dan Begom 
Nadera Begom 
Jahanara Begom 

Begom Saheb 
Roxanara Begom 


Taj Mahal ^ 

Nur Mahal 
Nur Jahan 
Farzanah Begam 
Akbarabad! 
Aurangabad! Begam 
Nawab Bae Ji 
Udepuri 
Kesar ? 

Chattar-watl 
Jan! Begam 
Mah Khanum 


Shah Khanum 
Farkhundah Khanum 
Pur-anwar Begam 
‘Aqilah Begam 
Fadlah Khanum 
Shadman Khanum 
Nflr-un-nissa Khanum 

Jafa Khanum (?) 
Nafisah Khanum 

Durr-i-durran Begam 
Nadirah Begam 
Jahan-ara Begam 

Begam Sa^ib 
Roshan-ara Begam . 


Crown of the Mahal 
Aurora of the Ma]^l 
Aurora of the World 
Liberality of Good Things 
Sovereign in Prosperity 
Prosperity of the Throne 
The Great 
Full of Joy 
Shadow of Riches 
Glorious in her Designs 
Loved or Cherished One 
Light of the House, which is 
a high title. It is as if one 
said, ‘The Light of France,’ 
for by ‘house’ is under- 
stood the empire, or the 
royal or imperial house 
King of the House 
Bounty of the House 
Filled with Industry 
The Instructed or Discreet 
Wisdom of the Court 
Mirth of the House 
Aurora of the Women of the 
House 

Prosperity of the House 
The Most Exquisite of the 
House 

The Pearl among Princesses 
The Excellent Princess 
Princess Renowned in the 
World 

Lady among Princesses 
The Light among Princesses 


These queens and princesses have [4] the title of Begam, which 
signifies that they are void of care,^ while others have the title 
of Canon (Khanum), signifying that they are of the royal house- 
hold the word also means ‘ a noble.’ When they travel on 

^ The middle column of all these lists — ^an attempt to give the strict trans- 
literation — ^has been added by the translator. The third column is Manucci’s 
own. No attempt has been made to correct these meanings, many of which are 
doubtful, and some absolutely erroneous. 

2 This is due to an erroneous etymology, the word not being * devoid 

of care,' but begam, the Turkish feminine of beg, a lord, a noble. In the same 



334 


NAMES OF CONCUBINES 


elephants they are made to enter a tent near the palace gate, 
and the elephant-driver covers his head with a coarse cloth so 
that he may not see them. 

The names of the mistresses, or concubines, with the mean- 
ings, are : 


Ranadel 

Badam Cheshm 
Kazac Badam 
Mat Lub 
Sue Den 
Catol 
Sangar 
Piar 
Mahan 


Ra‘nah-dil 

Baxi^m Chashm 

Nazuk-badan 

Matlub 

Sakh-dain 

Kutuhal 

Singar 

Piyar 

Mahaa 


That is, Clear or 
Faithful Heart 
Bold-eyed 
Pretty Body 
Given by Destiny 
Repose 
Joyous 
Adorned 
Loving 
Proud 


All the names given are either Persian or Hindu ; for the king 
takes into his house several daughters of Hindu princes, and 
gives them Hindu names, as the fancy takes him, and also in 
the same way to those who are Mahomedans. It is also the 
practice of these kings and the Mogul princes to entertain 
matrons as spies, and eunuchs who give [blank ; ? information] 
to these old ladies of the loveliest young women in the empire. 
Afterwards these matrons, by promises and deceit, lead them 
astray, and have them carried off into whatever palace the king 
or a prince requires. There they are detained among the 
number of mistresses or concubines, as I have recorded in the 
first part of this history, when speaking of the King Jahangir 
(PShahjahan) and the Prince Dara (L 131, 152). When it 
happens that he does not wish to keep them, the king sends 
them back with some great present. I say this because I have 
had a special acquaintance with all these secrets and of many 
others, which it is not in place for me to state. 

The names of the matrons, with the meanings, are : 


Nias Bibi Bauu 
Paima Banu 
Falica Banu 
Cader Bibi Banu 


Niyaz Bibi Bano 
Fahimah Bano 
Falaki Bano 
Qadir Bibi Bano 


The Present Lady 
The Philosopher Lady 
The Fortunate Lady 
The Powerful Lady 


way Manum is not connected with ^Unah, * a house ’ ; it is the feminine of 
Ma;;, * a lord, a noble ' 


NAMES OF DANCING-^WOMEN 


335 


Noschaba Banu 
Go! Sultan Banu 

Dil jo Banu 
Sin tan Banu 
Mer niguer Banu 
Nevel Bay Banu 
Chater Bay Banu 
Lai Bay Banu 
Ira Bay Banu 
Manse Banu^ 
Maha Biquer 


Nosh 3 .bah B^no 
Gtil Sult§.n Bano 

Dil-ju Bano 
Sim-tan Bano 
Mihr-nigar Bano 
Naval Bae Bano 
Chatarai Bano 
La*l Bae Bano 
Hira Bae Bano 
Manik Bano 
Mah-i-bikr 


The Lady Presenting Liquor 
The Lady of the Ro5^al 
Flower 

The Lady Heart Repose 
The Lady Golden Body 
The Lady of Pitying Glance 
The New Lady 
The Discreet Lady 
The Ruby Lady 
The Diamond Lady 
The Pearl Lady 
The Full Moon 


The matrons are very much more numerous, but not to 
weary, I give the names of only a few principal ones, who are 
set over the whole mahal, and I shall adopt the same course in 
regard to the singing-women, dancing-women, and others. 

In spite of Aurangzeb’s having forbidden all music, he never- 
theless continued always to entertain in his palaces, for the 
diversion of the queens and his daughters, several dancing and 
singing women ; and even conferred special names on their 
mistresses or superintendents. Those names are as follows : 


Names of the Superintendents of the Dancers and Singers, 
WITH THEIR Meaning. 


Sondar Bay 

Sundar Bae 

Superintendent of Music 

Soroc Bay 

Surosh Bae 

The Good Voice 

Chalol Bay 

Chulohla Bae 

The Happy [5] 

Merg nen 

Mirg-nain 

Gazelle-eyed 

Lai Bay 

La*l Bae 

Ruby 

Ira Bay 

Hira Bae 

Diamond 

Manga Bay 

Manasa Bae 

Pearl 

Chalian Bay 

jaiiya Bae 

The Net 

Ras Bay 

Ras Bae 

Liquor 

Nen jot Bay 

Nain-jot Bae 

Light of the Byes 

Merg mala Bay 

Mirg mala Bae 

Flowery, or she who is 
covered with flowers 

Gol ro Bay 

Gul-rQ Bae 

Rose-visaged 

Chanchel Bay 

Chanchal Bae 

The Bold 

Sanchel Bay 

Chanchal Bae 

The Subtile 

Dian Bay 

Dhyan Bae 

The Well-informed 

Gian Bay 

Gyan Bae 

The Inventive 


1 The only word approaching this form, and having a meaning which might 
be rendered * pearl,’ is the Hindi manih, a jewel, a ruby. 



336 

NAMES OF SLAVE 

WOMEN 

Ar Bay 

Har Bae 

Flower-adorned 

Morad Bay 

Murad Bae 

The Desired 

Mathalab Bay 

Matlab Bae 

The Foreseeing 

Akas Bay 

Aksis Ba^ 

The Celestial 

Abshera Bay 

Apsara B§e 

The Seraphic 

Gaidar Bay 

]^ald§.r Bae 

The Freckled 

Becond Bay 

Baikunth Bae 

Paradise 

Coshal Bay 

]^{lshhal Bae 

The Happy 

Nial Bay^ 

Nihal Bae 

The Abundant 

Ferae Bay 

Farah Bae (?) 

The Healthy 

Golal Bay 

Gulal Bae 

The Rose 

Castury Bay 

Kasturl Bae 

Musk or Musk-perfumed 

Carsevvad Bay 

Kar-i-sawab Bae 

Taste 

Bessina Bay 

Basna Bae 

The Pleasant-scented 

Ader Bay 

Udar Bae (?) 

The Replete 

Sanchel Bay 

Chanchal Bae (?) 

The Sufficient 

Guecer Bay 

Kesar Bae 

Saffiron 


All the above names are Hindu, and ordinarily these over- 
seers of the music are Hindus by race, who have been carried 
off in infancy from various villages or the houses of different 
rebel Hindu princes. In spite of their Hindu names, they are, 
however, Mahomedans. Each has under her orders about ten 
apprentices ; and along with these apprentices they attend the 
queens, the princesses, and the concubines. Each one has her 
special rank according to her standing. The queens and the 
other ladies pass their time in their rooms, each with her own 
set of musicians. None of these musicians are allowed to sing 
elsewhere than in the rooms of the person to whom they are 
attached, except at some great festival. Then they are all 
assembled and ordered to sing together some piece or other in 
praise of, or to the honour of, the festival. All these women are 
pretty, have a good style and much grace in their gait, are 
very free in their talk and exceedingly lascivious, their only 
occupation, outside the duties of their office, being lewdness. 

‘ Bae ’ in the Hindu language means ‘ madam ’ or ‘ lady.’ 

The names of the principal slaves or women servants in the 
mai^al are : 


Golal 

Gulal 

The Rose 

Chambely 

Chambel! 

The Jasmine Flower 

Narguis 

Nargis 

The Tulip Flower 

Guecer 

Kesar 

Saffiron 



NAMES OF SLAVES 


337 


Gaal badam 

Gul-i-badam 

Sosen 

Sosan 

Hyassaman 

Yasmin 

Castury 

Kasturi 

Continuation of the names 
ma^al : 

Chumpa 

Champs. 

Rubel 

Bel 

Sentz 

Sainti 

Senovor 

Nainufaj (?) 

Gola Basoy 

Gul-i-*abbasi 

Gol Frang 

Gul-i-farang 

Ranagol 

Ra'na-gul 

Gole Andam 

Gul-andam 

Golonour 

Gul-anar 

Anar caly 

Anar-kali 

Salony 

Salon! 

Sobaty 

Subbati 

Neguy 

Nek! 

Jasgar 

EhSLs-kar (?) 

Doulany 

Daulati 

Madmotty 

Madhumati 

Sogundara 

Sugandhara 

Geony 

GyS.ni 

Choel 

Koil 

Lambac 

Lambuka (?)® 

Benofchu 

Banafshah 

Gol rang 

Gul-rang 

Mendy 

Mendhi 

Sud barg 

Sad-barg 

Cosh negu 

Khush-nig§.h 

Sandal 

Sandal 

Dila Feros 

Dil-afroz 

Ginda del 

Zindah-dil 

Guet qui 

Ketaki 

[6] Nias bo 

Niyaz-bu 

Much naz 

Machh-naz (?) 

Moty 

Mot! 

Nec Cadam 

Nek-qadam 

Achanec 

Achanak 


Almond Flow’er 
The Lily Flower 
The Festival [i.e., Jashati] 
Musk 

of the principal slaves in the 

Name of an Indian flower 
Name of another such flower 
[? jasmine] 

Another flower name 
The Tuberose' 

The Head of Flowers 
The Girofle 
The Good Flower 
The Shape of a Flower 
Pomegranate Flower 
Pomegranate Blossom 
The Holy Sweetened with 
Sugar 

The Pleasing 

The Good-natured 

The Well-placed 

Riches 

The Terrible 

The Scented 

The Lively or Expert 

A bird in India 

Lily Flower 

The Violet 

Flower-coloured 

Red Colour [henna] 

Hundred-leaved 

The Courteous 

Sandal 

Heart-delighting 
Life of the Heart 
Name of an Indian flower 
[keora] 

Pleasant-smelling 
Smart and Agile 
The Pearl 

The Well-footed Beauty 
The Unexpected 


' In the dictionaries the tuberose is shab-bu, ‘ night-scented.’ 

^ Lambuka, the name of an afisam, a nymph in the court of Indra. 
VOL. II. 22 



338 


EXPENSES OF THE HAREM 


Nasbo 

X§LZ-bue 

Balm, Basilicum 

Morgnen 

Mirg-nain 

Gazelle-eyed 

Nen sue 

Nain-sukh 

Repose of the Eyes 

Calval nen 

Kamal-nain 

Lotus-eyed 

Dil pasant 

DU-pasand 

Flattering the Heart 

Dii alam 

Dil-aram 

Repose of the Heart 

Rang mala 

Rang-m§.la 

Crowned with Flowers 

Bassenty 

BasantI 

The Day of Festival 

Gombary 

Kamwari (’) 

Full of Industry 

Ira 

Hira 

The Diamond 

Coch-andam 

Khush-andam 

Perfect in Bearing 

Sareo gol 

Sarv-gul 

A Flower among Cypresses 

Quis mix 

Kishmish 

The* Escuse ’M?) 

Pesta 

Pistah 

The Pistachio 


All these names, and those which preceded, are more Indian 
than Persian. The kings are very choice about giving names 
to suit the persons receiving them. So much is this the case 
that they call these principal slaves by names having some con- 
nection either with their walk or their gestures, or their speech 
or their acts. They are all very well clad, and adorned with 
valuable jewels. They receive the same pay as the other slaves, 
and are under their orders ; and each has under her about ten 
women, over whom she rules. 

The expenses of the ma^Lal are extraordinary, for they never 
amount to less than a carol (karor) of rupees— -that is, ten mil- 
lions of rupees— which makes about fifteen millions of livres^ of 
Touraine. But out of this the king draws the money required 
for the sarapds, or robes, which he presents to generals and 
officers, as I have said (I. 54). The above expenditure will not 
appear incredible when we consider that all persons in India 
being extremely choice about, and fond of, scents and flowers, 
they disburse a great deal for essences of many kinds, for rose- 
water, and for scented oils distilled from different flowers. 
Besides all that expense, there is the betel, which is always in 
their mouths. It must also be noted that these are the daily 
expenses, to which must be added the continual purchases made 

^ Kishmish means * raisin,* and perhaps escuse is intended for ascingato [Italian], 
• dried ’ ferapes], 

® According to Tavernier (Ball), i. 411, a Uvre was one-third of an ecu (held to 
be worth 4s. 6d,), and therefore equal to is. 6d., and 15,000,000 livres equals 
;£i,I25,ooo. 



HAREM JEWELLERY AND ORNAMENTS 


339 


of precious stones. From this cause the goldsmiths are almost 
continuously busy with the making of ornaments. The best 
and the most costly of their productions are for the king's 
person, the queens, and the princesses. 

The latter make it one of their diversions to examine and 
show to others their jewellery. But they have their reasons for 
this ; for I have noticed several times myself when introduced 
into the rooms of these ladies, they having asserted that they 
had some reason for consulting me, that they often caused their 
ornaments and jewels to be brought, solely as an opening for a 
conversation. The things are brought in great trays of gold. 
They would inquire from me their virtues and properties, and 
make other similar remarks. During this time I had sufficient 
leisure to examine them, and I may say I have seen every 
sort of stone, some of an extraordinary size, and strings of 
pearls very equal in size, which at the first start I often took 
for various kinds of fruit. I say various kinds of fruit, for 
there were strings of rubies pierced and strung together just 
like the pearls, and about the size of a nut. These, by their 
red colour, diversified that of the pearls, and I took the whole 
for fruit. 

These ladies keep their rubies in this condition in order not 
to diminish their size and weight, for they know quite well that 
no one but themselves would be able to wear them, and, on the 
other hand, they have no need to sell them. Thus they do 
not mind their being pierced. They wear these necklaces of 
jewels like scarves, on both shoulders, added to three strings 
of pearls on each side. Usually they have also three to five 
rows of pearls hanging from their neck, coming down as far as 
the lower part of the stomach. Upon the middle of the head 
is a bunch of pearls which hangs down as far as the centre of 
the forehead, with a valuable ornament of costly stones formed 
into the shape of the sun, or moon, or some star, or at times 
imitating different flowers. This suits them exceedingly well. 
On the right side they have a little round ornament {boucU)y in 
which is a small ruby inserted between [7] two pearls. In their 
ears are valuable stones, round the neck large pearls or strings 
of precious stones, and over these a valuable ornament having 

22 — 2 



340 


DRESS OF HAREM LADIES 


in its centre a big diamond, or ruby, or emerald, or sapphire, 
and round it huge pearls. 

They wear on their arms, above the elbow, rich armlets two 
inches wide, enriched on the surface with stones, and having 
small bunches of pearls depending from them. At their wrists 
are very rich bracelets, or bands of pearls, which usually go 
round nine or twelve times. In this way they often have the 
plafP for feeling the pulse so covered up that I found it difficult 
to put my hand upon it. On their fingers are rich rings, and 
on the right thumb there is always a ring, where, in place of a 
stone, there is mounted a little round mirror, having pearls 
around it. T his mirror they use to look at themselves, an act of 
which they are very fond, at any and every moment. In addi- 
tion, they are girded with a sort of waistbelt of gold two fingers 
wide, covered all over with great stones ; at the ends of the 
strings which tie up their drawers there are bunches of pearls 
in ad<=^ up of fifteen strings five fingers in length. Round the 
bottom of their legs are valuable metal rings or strings of costly 
pearls. 

All these princesses own six to eight sets of jewels, in 
addition to some other sets of which I do not speak, worn 
according to their own fancy. Their dresses are superb and 
costly, perfumed with essence of roses. Every day they change 
their clothes several times ; this is due to the vicissitudes in the 
weather, which occur continually in the Mogul country. When 
t hes «^ ladies want to dispose of their jewels, it is almost im- 
possible for them to do so. For Prince Akbar, when he was in 
the territory of Shiva Jl, finding himself without money, sent 
five rubies to Goa to be sold. They were equal to those I 
spoke of above. Yet no one wanted to buy, owing to the high 
prices he asked, also because they were pierced. 

All women in India are in the habit of scenting their hands 
and feet with a certain earth,^ which they call men^ (tmhnd^, 
which colours the hands and feet red, in such a way that they 

1 In the French text the word is fasse; in Portuguese the author uses it many 
fiTnftg in different iotm^—^auso, poco» posso, and so forth— and, collating all these 
passages, I find it means either a pond, a marsh, or else clay and mud. I have 
not found it in any dictionary, French or Portuguese. Menhdi {henna) is, however, 
not an earth, but the leaves of a plant pounded and formed into a paste. 



HAREM LIFE 


341 


look as if they had on gloves. They do this because they can 
wear neither gloves nor stockings on account of the great 
heats which prevail in India. They are also obliged thereby 
to put on such exceedingly thin raiment that their skin shows 
through. They call these clothes siricas (?sarz), and others 
mahnal muslin). Ordinarily they wear two or even three 
garments, each weighing not more than one ounce, and worth 
from forty to fifty rupees each. This is without counting the 
[gold] lace that they are in the habit of adding. They sleep in 
these clothes, and renew them every twenty-four hours, and 
never put them on again, but give them away to their servants. 

Their hair is always very well dressed, plaited, and perfumed 
with scented oil. They cover their heads with a sheet of cloth 
of gold, and these are of different makes and colours. During 
the cold weather — that is to say, the less hot season ; as for 
winter, they do not know in India what that means — in that 
season, I say, they wear the same clothes, covering themselves 
on the top of the other things, however, with a woollen cabaye 
{qaba, a long open gown), of fine Kashmir make. Above 
their other clothes they put on fine shawls, so thin that they 
can be passed through a small finger-ring. 

Their amusement at night is generally to have large torches 
lighted, on which they will spend more than one hundred and 
fifty thousand rupees. The torches are made with wax or oil. 
Some of these princesses wear turbans by the king’s permission. 
On the turban is a valuable aigrette, surrounded by pearls 
and precious stones. This is extremely becoming, and makes 
them look very graceful [8]. During entertainments, such as 
balls and such-like, there are dancing-women who have the 
same privilege. 

These queens and princesses have pay or pensions according 
to their birth or the rank they hold. In addition, they often 
receive from the king special presents in cash, under the pretext 
that it is to buy betel, or perfumes, or shoes. They live in 
this way, with no cares or anxieties, occupying themselves with 
nothing beyond displaying great show and magnificence, an 
imposing and majestuous bearing, or making themselves 
attractive, getting talked about in the world, and pleasing the 



342 


AURANGZEB^S PERSONAL ATTIRE 


king. For, in spite of there being among them many jealousies, 
they conceal this as a matter of policy. 

In the midst of so much idleness, enjoyment, and grandeur, 
they cannot fail to get their minds loaded with the impurity of 
many vices. For they never reflect on death, and through all 
the palaces such a thing is never mentioned, nor anything to 
bring it before the eyes or mind. When these ladies chance to 
fall ill, they are carried away to a very pretty set of rooms 
in the palace, which they style the hlmav-liianah^ or house for 
the sicL There they are nursed and tended with all possible 
exactitude, and they only come forth either well or dead. 
When the latter is the case, the king seizes all the wealth 
of the defunct. If the patient is one esteemed by the monarch, 
he goes to see her at the beginning of her illness, and if she 
does not recover promptly, he does not go back to her again, 
but he sends from time to time a slave to ask after the state of 
her health. 

Although the women in the mal^al treat themselves so sump- 
tuously and display all the dignity that I have reported, 
Aurangzeb sees no harm. For all Mahomedans are very fond 
of women, who are their principal relaxation and almost their 
only pleasure. Further, it is an ancient custom of the Mogul 
kings to act in this way. As for the present king, he hardly 
conducts himself so pompously as his father, Shahjahan. 
His clothes are veiy plain, and he wears few ornaments — 
nothing but a small plume or aigrette in the middle of his 
turban and a large precious stone in front; on his stomach 
another. He wears no strings of pearls, as all his descendants 
do, down to the fourth generation. His coats are always made 
of a very moderately-priced material, for each qabd (gown) does 
not exceed ten rupees in cost. 

All the stones he wears have special names, almost always 
taken from some planet, such as the sun, the moon, or that 
of a star, or other similar names, such as he judges appro- 
priate. He finds it strange to call for them by their own 
name, which would be to ask for stones ; therefore when he 
wants to wear one he orders them to bring him the * sun,’ the 
‘ moon,’ et ceUra. 



ALLOWANCES TO PRINCES 


343 


Of these precious stones the Mogul has a quantity inherited 
from Taimur-i-lang and the other kings, his predecessors, also 
those obtained in the conquests of the Bljajur and Gulkandah 
kingdoms. In addition there are those he is daily buying. 
This takes no account of the fact that in these days he has 
become master of the diamond mines, and there is no stint 
of stones, the largest and best. For, although King Humayun 
was dethroned and expelled from his kingdom by Sher Shah, 
he did not thereby lose his jewels, for he took them away and 
brought them back with him [9]. 

When a princess is born in the maial the women rejoice, and 
go to great expense as a mark of their joy. If a prince is born, 
then all the court takes part in the rejoicings, which last several 
days, as the king may ordain. Instruments are played and 
music resounds ; the nobles appear to offer their congratula- 
tions to the king, bringing presents, either in jewels, money, 
elephants, or horses. The same day he imposes on the infant 
[a name] and fixes his allowance, which is always more than 
that given to the highest general in the army. He furthermore 
nominates officials to look after the lands which have been 
assigned to the child. At the year’s end any surplus left from 
the income of any such prince is kept apart in the treasury. 
When he is married and has a palace of his own this money is 
made over to him. 

The allowance of no prince exceeds the rank of fifty hazdrl 
(fifty thousand), that ordinarily granted to the eldest son. At 
the present time this is Shah ‘Alam, who has an income of 
twenty millions of rupees. This prince has in his maial two 
thousand women, and maintains a court as superb as that of 
the king, his father. When these princes once leave the 
paternal house, they work and scheme to make themselves 
friends. They write secretly to the Hindu princes and the 
Mahomedan generals, promising them that when they become 
king they will raise their allowances. The others close with 
the bargain, and if any of these princes mounts the throne, he 
fancies that they have been faithful to him. 

When a son is born to any of the princes it is the grandfather 
who fixes the child’s name. He also grants an allowance. 



344 


PRESENTS AND OFFERINGS 


different, however, from that of his own children, giving the 
child two or three hundred rupees a day. The child’s father 
also gives something, and supports an establishment for the 
child according to the income assigned him. This continues 
until he is of marriageable age, and then he is given a grander 
retinue. The king’s sons are called Pacha-zadah (Bddshah-zaddh) 
— ^that is, ‘Born of the King’ — and the sons of princes are 
called sazadah {shahzddah) — that is, ‘ Born of a Prince ’ — and 
they bear the title of Sultan. 

Any presents made to the king are accepted in his capacity 
of sovereign — ^that is to say, he believes or makes out that these 
gifts are his by right, as homage rendered to his supreme 
majesty. Even those of ambassadors are so considered; he 
receives them with demonstrations which prove his belief that 
in accepting he is conferring a signal favour. For he estimates 
himself to be the greatest monarch in the world. For this 
reason, when he writes to any king he designates him by the 
titles of consul, syndic, or president. 

If anyone makes a present at court in the hope of obtaining 
some charge or an appointment, and, as sometimes happens, he 
gets nothing, his present is useless. I was witness of some- 
thing of the sort, which happened to Monsieur Raisin,^ a French 
merchant. He presented to the king an emerald worth one 
thousand rupees on the supposition that the king, in considera- 
tion of the gift, would buy all the jewels he had for sale. Yet 
he never bought one. Then he (Raisin) was sorry at having 
given the present, and spoke to Multafat San,® at that time 
superintendent of the king’s wardrobe, and prayed that he 
would use influence to get him back his emerald. It is true 
that he obtained it, but it cost him half of what it w^as worth 
[lo]. Even then it was a favour the king showed him, because 
he was a foreigner. 

It is a custom established throughout India that without 
friends and without interest nothing can be done. Even princes 

^ Tavernier (Ball), ii. 304, M. Raisin is mentioned as dining along with 
Tavernier and another Frenchman at the table of the Augustinian Fathers who 
resided at the court of Gulkandah. The year was apparently 1660 or 1661. 

® More probably it was his brother Ift ilch a.r Etan, who became TThs-ngarngn 
(Lord Chamberlain) in the sixth year (1663-64) (‘ M.-ul-U.,* iii, 612). 



NEW YEAR'S DAY GIFTS 


345 


of the blood royal, if they want to carry out any purpose, cannot 
do so without paying. It is such a usual thing to give and to 
receive that when any eunuch or any princess asks the king for 
something as a favour to some general or officer, be it an ap- 
pointment or some other favour of any consequence, the king 
never omits to ask how much has been received. The other 
side ordinarily admit the exact amount, which the prince is 
aware of, and he leaves a portion with the intercessor and takes 
the rest himself, sending it to be locked up in the treasury. 

He did not act thus, however, with the wazlr^ JaTar S^an. 
All he did was to direct one of his officers to collect together 
the money for the appointments granted, with instructions to 
render an account daily of what had been received, if the total 
were twenty-five thousand rupees or more ; if less, no account 
need be sent in. Thereupon it happened one day that a certain 
Fida,e iO^an^ had returned from Havas (Allahabad) to court. 
He was no friend of JaTar iO^an, so one day when presenting 
to the king an officer seeking employment, he said : ^ This trifle 
has been worth twelve thousand rupees to JaTar Khan.’ The 
king resented so public a reproach ; nevertheless he dissembled, 
and soon after sent Fida,e iO^an to Labor as governor. 

Upon birthdays and other days of festival, above all on that 
of the New Year, when the king and the princes have them- 
selves weighed, as I shall state farther on (III. 12) — on those 
days, I say, the chief ladies of the court are obliged to attend at 
the palace to make their compliments to the queens and prin- 
cesses. From this ceremony the wives of Pathan captains are 
exempted. When the ladies attend there they never go in with 
empty hands, but always carry costly presents to be offered. 
They remain at the court until the end of the feast, which lasts 
usually six to nine days. The dancing-women and singing- 
women receive on these occasions handsome presents from the 
princesses and other great ladies. They either sing to compli- 
ment them on their birthday, or invoke on them all kinds of 
prosperity when congratulating them at the New Year. 

^ This must be the Fida.e Khan (or A'zam Khan. Kokah), brother of Bahadur 
Khan, or KhSn Jahan, Bahadur, Kokaltash, of whom there have been several 
mentions before. 



346 


BIRTHDAY S--THE KING^S TITLES 


The ladies respond then to all the praises, which the singing- 
women never fail to shower on them, by full trays of gold and 
silver coin which they throw to them. All the matrons re- 
ceive sarapds (robes) and jewels, and their allowances are 
increased. The great ladies are well received upon their arrival ; 
they also obtain costly sarapds (robes) and jewels. At the time 
when they say good-bye their hands are filled with kicharl, 
which is, in its literal meaning, a mixed dish made up of several 
kinds of vegetables. As to this, it must be remarked that 
the kicharl of these queens and princes is not of that sort, but, 
on the contrary, a mixture of gold and silver coin, with all 
kinds of precious stones and pearls, large and small. 

The day when a prince or a princess is born they give the 
infant a string of yellow silk vdth a knot in it, which is a mark 
of the day he came into the world. The next year, on the same 
day, they make another knot, and a feast is held as before, and 
thus they continue to the end of life.^ Upon the very day of 
birth they place in a [ii] small bag the navel-string which has 
been severed by a thread, and for forty days the whole is left 
under the prince’s pillow along with certain superstitious 
writings. At the end of the forty days the bag is hung round 
the child’s neck, and this is never omitted in the Mogul country. 

The following is the manner in which the Mogul’s vassals 
address him, or, rather, the titles that they give to him, with 
their meaning : 

Azarat Salamat Hazrat salaznat Holy in Health 

Gueble Dia Danie Qiblah-i-din-dnnya The Temple of the Faith 

and the World 

Gueble do Jania Qiblah-i-du jahinan The Temple of the Two 

Universes 

Gueble Ja Sam Qiblah-ja-i-sama* The Temple of the World 

Alam Pana *Alam-panah The Support of the World 

Usually Auiangzeb is called Plr-i-dastglr — ^that is, ‘ Holy man 
who removes with his hand sorrows and cares.’ 

When the little princes, of whom I have spoken above, have 
reached the age of five, they are taught to read and write the 

^ Herklots. ‘Qanoone Islam,* p, 26, the saUgirah (annual knot). There the 
'String is said to be red, and not yellow. 



EDUCATION OF PRINCES 


347 


paternal tongue, which is the Tartar, or the ancient speech of 
the Turks. After this they are made over to learned men and 
courteous eunuchs, who bring them up with great strictness, 
and teach them the liberal and military arts. The teachers take 
the greatest care to hinder the princes from acquiring bad 
habits. Usually to amuse them they have acted before them 
many comedies, or their teachers conduct before them legal 
argumentations, actions at law, or some imbroglio, after which 
judgments are pronounced. They show them combats and 
fights and similar things, the whole with a view to their having, 
should they ever obtain rule, some knowledge of the world’s 
business, and be able to judge in every matter with discernment 
and without passion. 

In regard to this it once happened to me that I was treating 
a little child of Sultan Mu‘izz-ud-dln for a small sore he had on 
his head. One day I said laughingly, to make him forget the 
pain he felt, that he must not be angry. The eunuchs and the 
matrons who were present found what I had said to be most 
extraordinary, and replying to me, they said that Mogul princes 
were never disturbed in mind, and all they did was void of 
passion and full of prudence. 

When the king goes out to hunt or to visit the mosque, he 
takes these young princes with him. This is the mode in which 
they are brought up inside the palace until the age of sixteen 
years. At this age they are married. . . The tutors are re- 
tained all their lives in the palace with a decent pension. After 
a prince is married the king gives him a separate palace, with 
a great income and a large establishment ; but along with all 
that he always keeps near them good tutors and most careful 
spies, who inform him of all that passes every day. 

When these princes have gone to live in separate palaces 
they observe their birthday or other festival themselves in the 
manner I have stated (III. lo), and their officers are obliged to 
make them presents in proportion to their wealth. Thus, on 
this head it happened that in the year 1679^ at the town of 

^ Some indecorous details are omitted. 

2 The 30th Rajab, 1090 H., which was Shah ‘Alam’s birthday, fell in 1679 on 
September 6, N.S. He was then thirty-seven. 



348 


NEW YEAR FESTIVAL-^WEIGHINGS 


Aurangabad, where Shah *Alam was celebrating his birthday, 
the queen, his mother, then living with him, made him a pre- 
sent of many curiosities to the value of fifty thousand rupees, 
at which the prince [12] was not satisfied, and complained, 
saying that his mother had been very niggardly compared to 
other years. In this way the queen was forced into giving him 
more presents. The other princesses of his household in the 
same way gave according to their means and substance. So 
much is this done, that on such an occasion it is generally 
indispensable for everyone, small and great, to act in this way 
and see that their present corresponds to their means and rank. 

Their year commences on the 22nd March,^ at which time a 
great festival is held, as I have said (III. 10). The palaces are 
decked inside and out with high and costly hangings, made by 
order of Shahjahan along with the throne, like a peacock, of 
which I have spoken (II. 34), This is of very great value, and 
the maker never had the felicity of seating himself upon it. 
Aurangzeb was the first, who, upon the day of his coronation, 
had the benefit of ascending this superb seat. It was placed 
under lofty tents, and he continues to use it on the festival day 
of which I speak. It is at that time the usage to place on each 
side of the throne, but a little lower, all the thrones used by 
the kings of Hindustan who preceded the present monarch. 

It is upon that day that the persons of the blood royal are 
weighed, according to ancient custom, in different ways — that 
is to say, first against seven kinds of metal, such as gold, silver, 
copper, iron, et cetera ; the second, against seven kinds of cloth — 
cloth of gold, cloth of silver, velvet, et cetera ; and the third 
against seven kinds of grain — that is, wheat, rice, barley, et cetera. 
All this is done to discover the difference between one year and 
another. All the things weighed out are given to the poor, and 
what everyone has weighed is recorded in a book in memory of 
the occasion. 

The king makes great gains on that day, for everybody in the 
palace, and all the nobles of the court, are obliged to make him 
large presents. The day is called Nauroz — ^that is to say, ^ New 

^ This is the old Persian year, of which the Nauroz^ or New Year’s Day, agrees 
with the sun’s entry into Aries, 



THE ^ID— PUBLIC PRAYERS 


349 


Day.’ On his part, also, the king scatters his favours to his 
subjects by placing and displacing governors and officers, by 
giving jewels, elephants, and horses, and sets of robes (sarapSs). 
When he is in camp the festival is not celebrated with the 
same magnificence, and the thrones are not used, since they are 
never brought outside the fortress of Dihli. 

Another festival is also celebrated, which they call Hid Corban 
{*Id-i-qurb&n ) — that is to say, ‘ the Festival of Sacrifice it 
comes at the end of their Lent.^ On that day, at nine o’clock, 
the king comes forth from his palace with great display and 
majesty, and visits the great mosque, where the chief qazl 
awaits him, standing on a platform with seven steps. Behind 
him is a slave with a drawn sword in his hand, held 
upright. 

After the first ceremonies the qapl is required to announce in 
a loud voice the names of all the Mogul kings, beginning with 
Taimur-i-lang, [and] the years of their reign. All this he must 
utter with much force and eloquence. On coming to that of 
the then reigning king he must make a panegyric of him, with 
which he never fails to mix much flattering praise. He gives 
him the title of propagator and conservator of the Mahomedan 
faith. Finally, he applauds all his doings, exalting also to the 
best of his power his valour and equity. In giving out this 
discourse the qdzl needs to be very careful, and display much 
presence of mind, for if he made any mistake and omitted some- 
thing, the executioner stands ready at his back to remove his 
head. 

This harat^ue having been finished, the qa^i is rewarded 
with seven sets of robes, given him by the king. On leaving 
the mosque, they find standing at the bottom of the steps a 
camel ready for the sacrifice. The king, having mounted his 
horse, gives the camel a lance-thrust in the neck ; or if he does 
not do it himself, he orders one of his children to do it. Usually 
when Shah ‘Alam was at court it was [13] he who performed 
that ceremony, or sacrifice, as they style it. After that the 

^ N. M. here mistakes the names ; the feast at the end of the Ramazan fast is 
* Festival of Breaking the Fast * The * Id-uUqiirhdn is held on the tenth 
day of the month 2^,1 Hijjah (the twelfth month of their year). 



350 


NAMES OF EUNUCHS 


slaves stretch it (the camel) on the ground, and divide its flesh 
among themselves, as if it were a saint’s relics. 

As I have already given a list of many names of the fmhal 
women, I consider it is not without use to give those of the 
principal eunuchs of the royal household, serving inside and 
outside that mansion, or rather prison, for the ladies. 

Among these principal eunuchs there is always one set above 
the rest who directs and looks after everything that goes on in 
the majfal. The man holding this office is highly esteemed by 
the king. He has a large allowance, has charge of the treasury, 
is master of the wardrobe, decides on the details and the pattern 
of the sarSpOs (robes) to be prepared ; in short, it is he who has 
charge of all the 7m]^al expenditure of the clothes, the linen, 
and the precious stones, of the jewellery, of everything that 
goes into or comes out of the palace. Each of these eunuchs 
has a separate title given him by the king. 


Nader 

Nadir 

The Excellent 

Danial 

Danyal 

Of Good Family 

Danech 

Danish 

The Learned 

Doulat 

Daulat 

Riches 

Matlub 

Matlab 

Intention 

Issof 

Yusuf 

Goodness 

Yacut 

Ya'qiit 

Ruby 

Almas 

Almas 

Diamond 

Semerad 

Zumurrud 

Emerald 

Nilem 

Nilam 

Sapphire 

Maijan 

Maijan 

Coral 

Macbul 

Maqbul 

Graceful 

Meva Jan 

Mewa-i-jan 

Fruit of Life 

Inayat 

'Inayat 

Favour 

Nec nam 

Neknam 

Good Name 

Feros 

Firuz 

Valour 

Imaet 

Himmat 

Courage 

Fata 

Fatb 

Victory 

Faem 

Fahim 

Learned 

Mahalat [? Mahabat] 

Mahabat (?) 

Of Good Family 

Sahadet 

Sa^adat 

The Efficient 

Salamat 

Salamat 

Health 

Ayat 

Haiyat 

Life 

Daem 

Da.im 

For Ever 

Elal 

Hilal 

New Moon 

Balat 

Balat 

Loud-voiced 

Anvar 

Anwar 

Limited 



DUTIES OF THE NAZIR AND EUNUCHS 


3SI 


Abnus 

Abntis 

Ebony 

Maharem 

Mahram 

A Confidante 

Amit 

Amrit 

The Precious 

Coja Sara 

Khwaiah SarS. 

The News-writer of 
the Seraglio 

Holfat 

Ulfat 

Friendship 

Macul 

Ma‘qul 

Prudent 

Sadec 

Sadiq 

Confident 

Maclhad 

Maslabat 

Imagination 

Assalat 

Asalat 

Noble 

Amanat 

Amanat 

A Deposit 

Atbar 

I*tib5r 

Faithful 


All the eunuchs whose names are given above have the title 
of nazir — ^that is to say, guardian or superintendent. The 
kings, princes, queens, and princesses, place great confidence 
in these people, and each queen, princess, or other lady of 
quality has a nazir in charge of her property, lands, and income. 
All the officials, servants, and slaves are bound to account to 
the nOzir for all they do, and for whatever they have in their 
hands. 

This nazir generally has under him other eunuchs, young 
and old, of which some have access to the ma^al, either to carry 
billets or do other messages, as the service of the person em- 
ploying them requires. There are others who are posted at the 
doors to see who comes in and out of the ma^al. They search 
ever37thing with great care to stop the entry of bhang, wine, 
ophion (opium), nutmegs {noix mttscades), or other drugs which 
could intoxicate, for all women in mahak love much such 
beverages. Nor do they permit the entry into the place of 
radishes, cucumbers, or similar vegetables that I cannot name. 

When any women come to pay a visit or otherwise, if they 
are not known they are searched, no respect being paid either to 
the position or rank of the person. What forces the eunuchs 
to such strict measures is the continual fear in which they exist 
that some young man in disguise might enter in female dress. 
When masons or carpenters, or other workmen are wanted to 
carry out any job, their names are registered at each gate they 
pass through ; the descriptive marks on their faces, and so forth, 
are taken down. A paper showing all this is delivered to other 
eunuchs, who are required to conduct them out in the same 



352 


HAREM RULES— VISITS OF PHYSICIANS 


way, and to take care that they are the same persons with the 
same physiognomy and the same personal marks. All this is 
for fear of anyone remaining inside, or any [14] change being 
made. 

There are also at the doors women, ordinarily natives of 
Kashmir, who are employed to carry awa}’ and to bring back 
anything that may be necessary; these women do not veil 
themselves to anybody. The chief doors of the ma^l are 
closed at sunset, and the principal door of all is guarded 
by good sentinels posted for the purpose, and a seal is 
attached. Torches are kept burning all night. Each of 
the ladies has a clock, and a scribe who is obliged to report 
to the nazir all that comes in or goes out, and everything 
that happens. 

When a ph3rsician enters, he is conducted by the eunuchs 
with his head and body covered as far down as the waist, and 
he is taken out again in the same way. All the nobles exercise 
the same exact supervision of their women that the king does. 
The reason is that Mahomedans are most extraordinarily dis- 
trustful upon this chapter ; and what deserves mention is that 
some do not even trust their own brothers, and do not permit 
their women to appear before them, being jealous of them. Thus 
the women, being shut up with this closeness and constantly 
watched, and having neither liberty nor occupation, think of 
nothing but adorning themselves, and their minds dwell on 
nothing but malice and lewdness. Confession of this was made 
to me once by one of these ladies herself. 

It was the wife of Asad i^lln, the zBazir/ her name was Naval 
Bae, and she told me that her only thoughts were to imagine 
something by which she could please her husband and hinder 
his going near other women. From this I can assert that they 
are all the same. If they have any other thought, it is to 
regale themselves with quantities of delicious stews ; to adorn 
themselves magnificently, either with clothes or jewellery, pearls, 
et cetera; to perfume their bodies with odours and essences of 
every kind. To this must be added that they have permission 
to enjoy the pleasure of the comedy and the dance, to listen to 
tales and stories of love, to recline upon beds of flowers, to 



PRESENTS FROM PRINCESSES 


353 


walk about in gardens, to listen to the murmur of the running 
waters, to hear singing,^ and other similar pastimes. 

There are some who from time to time affect the invalid, 
simply that they may have the chance of some conversation 
with, and have their pulse felt by, the physician who comes to 
see them. The latter stretches out his hand inside the curtain ; 
they lay hold of it, kiss it, and softly bite it. Some, out of 
curiosity, apply it to their breast, which has happened to me 
several times ; but I pretended not to notice, in order to conceal 
what was passing from the matrons and eunuchs then present, 
and not arouse their suspicions. 

Physicians are very well treated by these ladies, and they 
too, on their side, maintain much discretion both in their way 
of acting and in their speech, which is always restrained and 
polished. These ladies are also very liberal in making presents 
to the nobles of the court, and most industrious in obtaining 
appointments and promotion for those that they esteem. The 
presents they make consist of horses, sarap&s (robes), plumes, 
and other things. Very rarely is any service done them or any 
civility shown that they do not acknowledge it in one way or 
another, subject, of course, to treating everyone according to 
his merit, or, rather, according to how he touches the heart of 
the lady. Thus I have seen how the daughter of Aurang^^eb 
acted towards the Nawab Zu,lfiqar l^an and his father. 

This Nawab, having been sent by the king to govern the 
Karnatik,^ went before starting to take leave of this princess, 
because he was married to one of her relations. She presented 
him with a box for betel-leaf and a spittoon of gold, all covered 
with precious stones. A year afterwards the king sent his son, 
Kam Bakhsh, to the same place, for reasons of state, under 

1 The text is here in French, and the words used are le cong, which I take as a 
misspelling of le chant The only other possible word is sankh, but blowing that 
shell is hardly a harem amusement, and its use in Hindu worship makes it an 
abomination to Mahomedans. 

^ K&m Ba^sh was sent against Jinj! in the thirty-fifth year, 1102 H. (1691) 

* Ma,asir-i-‘Alamgiri/ 339. Asad 'Kha. n joined Kam Ba^sh at Kharapah 
(Cuddapah) on the 21st Muharram, 1103 H. (October 13, 1691). They reached 
Jinji on the 5th RabI* II. (December 26, 1691) {tbtd . , 344}. Zu,lfiqar Klian had 
gone there a little earlier in the year. 

VOL. II. 


23 



354 


ETIQUETTE WITH PRINCESSES 

charge of the wazir [i5]> Asad Ehan, father of the Nawab above 
named. He, too (the wazir), went to bid good-bye to the same 
princess ; she gave him a present of another box for betel, which 
was only of enamelled silver. Asad !^an, seeing a present of 
such small value, complained, and said that at the least he 
deserved a present equal to that of his son, for he was the 
father, and held higher rank, being, moreover, chief minister of 
the empire. The princess in reply said there was a difference, 
he (the son) being her relation, while he (the father) was only 
in their service. The good man was overcome by this retort, 
and having made her an obeisance such as is rendered to the 
king — ^this being done to all persons of the blood royal, how- 
ever distantly related they may be — he retired. 

The mode in which one bids adieu to these ladies is not such 
as one might imagine, for you never see them at all. Here is 
what happens at these meetings : First you go to the door of 
the mal^al, and there speak to the eunuchs, stating the purpose 
for which you have come. You say you wish your presence 
announced to the person from whom you are to take leave. 
The eunuchs carry the message and bring the reply, for, as I 
said, none of the ladies appear, except when they go out, when 
they sit in their covered seat, whence they see everything by a 
little window made of a netting of thread of gold. In a word, 
no man ever approaches these ladies except their husbands and 
the doctors who feel their pulses. 

Nobles dismount, and from afar off make their bow ; to those 
whom they think more highly of the ladies send word to draw 
near, and themselves move on for some steps at a gentle pace. 
Then, when they wish to proceed, they send from their seat some 
betel-leaf by the hand of a eunuch, as if to send their compli- 
ments and a farewell. On receiving this, the noble makes 
another bow and goes on his way. This is an honour that I 
myself have received on various occasions. 

Among other occasions there was one when the king’s wife, the 
mother of Shah "Alam, was graciously pleased to give me this 
testimony of her goodwill towards me in recognition of my having 
accompanied the prince, her son, from Goa to the court. This 
princess showed me great affection because I had attended her 



ROYAL BLOOD-LETTING 


355 


and bled her several times, in addition to which she had often 
to send for me, as she suffered much from gout. As it was I 
who prescribed for her, she often sent me some dainty, as is the 
fashion of these ladies to do to those they esteem. When I 
bled her, she put her arm out from the curtain, but wrapped 
up, leaving only one little spot uncovered, about as wide as 
two fingers, close to the veins. For that attendance I got from 
her four hundred rupees and a sarapa (set of robes) as a present, 
and I bled her regularly twice a year. 

It should be understood that before a European can acquire 
the office of physician among these princes he must be put to 
the proof for a long time, for they are extremely distrustful and 
nice in such matters. Every month the princesses and the 
ladies have themselves bled, which is done in the way I have 
above described. It is just the same when they want them- 
selves bled in the foot, or have any wound or fistula dressed. 
Nothing is ever shown but the part affected, or the vein they 
wish opened. When I bled the wives and daughters of ShaJh 
‘Alam, each of them gave me two hundred rupees and a sarapa; 
but when I had to bleed that prince who was my employer, 
and he was at the court, I could not do it without the leave of 
the king. For this bleeding I got four hundred rupees, a sarapa, 
and a horse. 

When I had finished I had to report [i6] to the king the 
quantity of blood I had drawn, what was the prince’s r eig ning 
humour, and reply according to circumstances to the inquiries 
made by the king on this subject. After this he would give me 
my dismissal, granting me a sarapa. For each bleeding of one 
of the prince’s sons I received two hundred rupees, a sarapa, 
and a horse. 

Since I have spoken of physicians, and the way the princes 
and princesses act towards them, I shall state here that the 
Mogul himself is extremely choice and scrupulous over the 
selection of his physicians, appointing always the most learned 
and the most experienced, in order the better to preserve his 
health. What is more, as there are so many people in his 
palace, and his court extraordinarily numerous, he keeps in his 
employ several physicians, to whom the following names are 

23 — 2 



356 


NAMES OF PHYSICIANS 


given, which agree either with their knowledge or the treatment 
and cures they have accomplished: 


Aquim Busurg 
Aquim Elmulq 
Aquim Bina 
Aquim Mossen 
Aquim Janbalch 
Aquim Momena 
Aquim Muzin 
Aquim Fased 
Aquim Abdul Fata 
Aquim Taccarrob can 
Aquim Salle 
Aquim Nabas 
Aquim Alayar 
Aquim Nader 
Aquim Coda Doste 
Aquim Faradbach 
Aquim Emteriani^ 
Aquim Badan 
Aquim Becata 
Aquim Moccorrom can 
Adutum £1 zamana 
Aristu El zamana 
Jalisny El zamana 
Pocralg El zamana 
Bualy El zamanah 


Haklm>i-buzurg 
Hak!m-ul-mulk 
Hakim-i'bina 
Hakim-i-muhsin 
Hakim-i-jdn-ba^sh 
Hakim-i-mu’min 
Hakim-i-muzaiyan 
Haklm-i-fazil 
Hakim 'Abd-ul-fattab 
Hakim Taqarrub Khiji 
Hakim SalaJi 
Hakim Nabz 
Hakim AllahySx 
Hakim N§dir 
Hakim EHiudS-dost 
Hakim Farab-bakhsh 

Hakim Badan 
Hakim Be-khatg. (?) 
Hakfm Mukarrab K3i§.n 
Afl§Ltiin-uz-zamanah 
Aristu-uz-zamS.nah 
J§lintls-uz>zam§jiah 
Buqrg,t-uz-zamS,nali 
Bu'Ali-uz-zamanah 


Great Physician 
Physician of the Country 
Physician of Sight 
Beneficent Physician 
Life-giving Physician 
Physician of Believers 
Physician in Place 
Instructed Physician 
Physician Slave of Victory 
Favoured Physician 
Good-natured Physician 
Physician of the Pulse 
Physician Cherished by God 
Physician Unparalleled 
Physician Friend of God 
Physician Giving Repose 
Physician Divine 
Physician of the Body 
Faultless Physician 
Physician Assistant 
Plato of the Century 
Aristotle of the Century 
Galen of the Century 
Hippocrates of the Century 
Bu Ali (Avicenna) of the 
Century 


All the physicians whose names are recorded above are 
Persians by race. Those bearing the title of hhan — ^that is, 

‘ noble ’ — have a gross allowance of from twenty, thirty, fifty, 
one hundred, to two hundred thousand rupees a year. I have 
seen among them men who cured hot complaints with cooling 
remedies. Few of them know anything about, or can cure, the 
stone, paralysis, apoplexy, dropsy, anaemia, malignant fevers, or 
other difficult complaints. They follow the ancient books of 
medicine, which say a great deal, but tell very little. However, 
illnesses in the Mogul country are very easy to cure, owing to 
the heat, which causes perspiration and thus relieves the patient. 

1 This ina7 be *Abd.ur-iahm3ii, ‘Abd-ur-rahim, 'Abd-ur-rabl^bd, or 'Abd-ur- 
ruh&ni ; but none of these is an appropriate title for a phyadan, nor do they 
mean ' Divine,’ but ' Slave of God.’ 



NAMES OF SLAVES 


357 


When these physicians enter the seraglio {nialtaV) the eunuchs 
lead them, their heads covered with something thick, which 
falls as low as their stomach, as I have already said, and they 
are brought back equipped in the same fashion. 

It is the habit of these kings to have usually in their service 
seven thousand slaves of different nations, and some among 
them are established as chiefs to govern and guide the rest. 
The king gives them names, and in my time these chief slaves 
were called as follows. I append a list, in which one will not 
be displeased at finding the meanings as entered below : 


Hiaesi Bahuder 

Ghiyas Bah^ur (?) 

Good and Brave 

Farrad 

Furada 

Haughty or High 

Nec Ruy 

Nek-roz 

Good Morning 

Nec Cadam 

Nek-qadam 

Good Prince 

Nec Del 

Nek-dil 

Good Heart [17] 

Nec Niet 

Nek-niyat 

Good Intention 

Serrotix 

Sar-utar 

Meeting (?) 

Ilachi 

ll§.echi 

Grain of Paradise [carda- 
mom]^ 

Mabarec 

Mubarak 

The Well Placed 

Bactavar 

Ba^tawar 

Good Fortune 

Uchara 

Isharah 

Vigilant 

Faim 

Fahim 

Judgment 

Zirac 

Zirak 

Understanding 

Cuchala 

EIhushliala 

Happy 

Chalawa 

Chalawa 

Good Walker 

Doulat 

Daulat 

Riches 

Salamat 

Salamat 

Health 

Mahama 

Mahama (?) 

Repose 

Nazer Bahader 

Na^ar Bahadur 

Valiant Sight 

Jam sid 

Jamshid 

Divining Cup 

Hiay 

Haya 

Shame 

Esselam 

Aslam 

In the Faith 

Ala Berdy 

Allah-wirdi 

God took him 

Faridum 

Farlddn 

Great among the Little 

Matalub 

Matlab 

Wish 

Mamara 

Ma‘mur 

Replete 

Massur 

Mashhur 

Clear 

Azer 

Hazir 

Present 

Niamat 

Ni‘mat 

Ragout 


^ Mr. D. Ferguson says: ‘The word has long been familiar to me as the 
alternative name for Guinea grains or Malajucta grains. See “ New English 
Dictionary,** s.v. Cardamom, Grains (4 a)> and Guinea.’ 



358 


NAMES OF KING'S SWORDS 


Tara 

Tara 

Shining 

Corcom 

^urram 

Happiness 

Delavar 

Dil-awar 

Lively 

Atam 

Hatim 

Liberal 

Sujan 

Sujan 

Discreet 

Maharam 

Mahram 

Confidante 

Macbul 

MaqbQl 

Gentle 

Elal 

Hilal 

New Moon 

Belal 

Balal 

Shouter 

Cambar 

Qamar 

Full Moon 

Nazer 

Nagar 

Sight 


These are the names of the king’s principal slaves. They 
are all gentlemen troopers, and have good pay. Set over all 
the slaves are two captains, and the horsemen are three thousand 
in number, the foot or infantry four thousand. They have 
various employments, both within the household and in other 
duties connected with it. They are resorted to when some 
coup has been decided on ; it is they who write about it, and 
execute the royal commands. In addition, they are used as 
spies to report what is going on, as well among the nobles as 
the common people. 

Just as these princes give names to the queens, the prin- 
cesses, and all the other ladies of the mahal, so do they impose 
them upon many other things which they use, such as their 
swords and shields, their finest horses, their elephants, their 
heavy artillery, and the principal generals in their army. Of 
all of these will be given lists, each separately, with the mean- 
ing opposite each name. With these I will include the names 
of several Hindu princes and others of that race. At present 
I make a beginning by the names of the cattarres (katarah), or 
sabres of the king, which are as follows : 

Bach man Coch Dashman-kush Killer of Enemies 

Var par War-par From Side to Side 

Bigily Bijli Lightning 

Be cata Be-^ata Without Fault 

Duch man setan Dushman-sitan Menacer of the Enemy 

Be gererem Be-qarari (?) Devoid of Doubt 

Alam satam *Alam-sitan World Astonisher 

Abdar Abdar Fine-tempered 

Fate Lascar Fath-i-lashkar Army Vanquisher 

Kam kam Qamqam The Worker 



NAMES OF HIS SHIELDS 


359 


Kafar Coch 

K5fir-kush 

Infidel-slayer 

Cha Enaet 

Sh§.h-*inayat 

Royal Gift 

Duch man Pe 

Bushman-pal 

Enemy-pursuer 

Zauro Catell 

Zahr-i-q3.til 

Murderous-poison 

Coda Baech 

Khuda-ba^sh 

God-given 

Ali madat 

A*la-madad 

Great Assistance 

Atiar 

Hathi-yar 

Hand’s Friend 

Damdar 

Damdar 

Life-giving 

Farque Dota 

Fanq-i-du-tah 

Divider in Two 

Camarzeb 

Kamar-zeb 

Waist Adomer 

Alamguir 

‘Alamgir 

World Conqueror (the one 
Aurangzeb usually carries 
in his hand) 

Hiar Bafadar 

Yar-i-wafadar 

Faithful Friend 

Hioson Gusar 

Joshan-guzar 

Helmet-cleaver 

Zore zareb 

Zor-zarb 

Violent Stroke 

Zolom Coch 

Zalim-kush 

Tyrant-slayer 

Zarab 

Zahr-ab 

Venomous 

Fate Alam 

Fath-i-‘Alam 

World Conquest [i8] 


The king values all these swords very much ; they have gold 
hilts covered with costly stones. The daggers are also made in 
the same fashion, and they are of three kinds, called canjar 
{Mianjar), banc (bdnk), and cataris (katarah). The king gives 
t h«»Tn names much the same as those of the swords- Every 
Friday morning this prince inspects them as part of his devo- 
tions, and asks of God that with them he may obtain victory. 
These swords and daggers have come down from the ancient 
kings. The prince gives them away to no one, not even to his 
own children ; as to those of which he makes presents to the 
generals and captains, they are swords that he ordere to be 
made expressly, or that he buys, or else those acquired in some 
conquered country. 


Names of the King’s Shields. 


Afiab Alem 
Matab Alam 
Sae Alam 
Roshonay Alem 


Aftab-i.*Alam 

Mahtab-i'^Alam 

Sayah-i-'Alam 

RoshanSe-'Alam 


Sun of the World 
Moon of the World 
Shadow of the World 
Splendour of the World 


Besides the shields herein given, there are many others made 
of rhinoceros hide, which will resist a musket-ball. There is a 
different kind, made of buffalo hide, which an arrow cannot 



360 


NAMES OF THE KING^S HORSES 


penetrate, and it is some of these that are presented to 
officers. 


Names of the Principal Horses ridden by the King. 


Bad Raftar 

Bad-raftHr 

Agile as the Wind 

Cosh Raftar 

Khflsh-raitar 

Good Mover 

Chaa Passand 

Shah-pasand 

Approved by the King 

Dil Roba 

Dil-rub§, 

Heartily Loved 

Surrot Siret 

Surat-sirat 

Art and Judgment 

Coch Andam 

TThush-and^m 

Fine Posture 

Coe Telia 

Koh-i-tila 

Gold Mountain 

Coe Necro 

Koh-i-nuqrah 

Silver Mountain 

Zemidoz 

Zamin-doz 

Field-flyer 

Cochad Raftar 

Kushadah-raft§r 

Wide-stepper 

Radar 

Rahdar 

Speedy 

Forga 

Faijah 

Expert Goer 

Serbeland 

Sar-buland 

High Head 

Torai Garden 

Tura.i-gardan 

Arched Neck [turaii 
trumpet] 

Ans 

‘Ans 

Eagle 

Manec 

Manik 

Jewel 

Lai Bebaha 

Lal«be>baha 

Priceless AmadavaP 

Ira jot 

Hir§.-jot 

Diamond Lustre 

Polvari 

Phulw§.ri 

The Flowering 

Caldar 

Kaldar 

Marked 

Ablac 

Ablaq 

Piebald 

Zuderas 

Zfid-ras 

Quick-goer 

Bedel 

Be-dil 

Despairing 

Delavar 

Dil-Swar 

Animated 

Chinasor 

Siuah-zor 

Strong-chested 

Char Raftar 

Shah-raftar 

Royal Stepping 

Baz 

Ba^ 

Falcon 

Ain 

Hiran (?) 

Gazelle 

Be-arazn 

Be-S.ram 

Restless 

Aram 

ArS,m 

Repose 

Ab Ravan 

Ab-i-rawSn 

Flowing Water 

Tes Ro 

Tez-rau 

Fast Mover 

Chaman 

Samand 

The Sea2 

Sanjab 

Sanj3.b 

Ash-coloured 


All these horses that I have named are ridden by the king. 
The names^ he gives them refer either to their action, their 
size, or their colour; they are Arabs, Persians, or the finest 
horses from Turkey. The rest he names according to the 
^ Should be ‘Priceless Ruby* (la*l) ? 

“ Samawd, a high-bred or bay-colonred horse, is mistaken fsxSmudra, the sea. 




XXII. Shaistah ^an, Maternal Uncle of Aurangzeb. 


Vol. II. 


To face page 360. 




NAMES OF THE KING'S ELEPHANTS 361 

results of trying them. They are marked thus ^ on the near 
quarter. They are provided with good grooms, are well looked 
after, and well trained ; thus nothing is wanting to these 
animals, either in the way of food or sumptuous equipment. 
As their morning feed they get bread mixed with butter and 
sugar, and in the evening cooked rice, and cow’s milk, in which 
there are pepper-corns, cumin-seed, anise-seed, and betel. All 
these are given to reduce any flatulence in their insides. 

Two hours before the king mounts his horse the chief groom 
mounts it without his shoes on (a mark of respect), and rides 
it up and then down, so as to make it more willing and free its 
stomach. When the king does go riding it is not from necessity, 
but choice. For this reason he changes his position frequently — 
one hour on the throne [the iaMiUi-rawan, a sort of sedan-chair], 
another on an elephant. The horses the king rides are trained 
to stand fire and anything else likely to frighten them. By a 
custom which has lasted at this court since Taimtir-i-lang, 
who began it, four horses, ready saddled for any emergency, 
are kept near the door of the ^usl-Tchmah, the place where 
audience is given and justice dispensed. When the king 
wishes to gratify any of his children, he makes him a present 
of one of his favourite horses, along with twenty or fifty others 
of the ordinary sort, about which I will discourse more amply 
hereafter (III. 27) [19]. 

The names of the chief elephants on which the king rides, 
and the way they are kept, are as follows ; 


Orang gas 

Aurang-gaj 

Throne-elephant, the Cap- 
tain of all the Elephants 

Calec Dad 

Khaliq-dad 

Creator-given 

Memun Mabarecq 

MaimUn-mubarak 

Highly Sedate 

Codad Dad 

]^uda-dad 

God-given 

Surou Ziret 

Sarv-sairat 

Pretty Artist 

Rael Cusba 

Rel-kasha 

The Worker 

Dil passand 

Dil-pasand 

Heart’s Friend 

Buch BaJiadur 

Ba^t-Bahadur (?) 

Valiant with the Cut Ear 

Hiec Danta 

Yak-danta 

One-tusked 

Cabra 

Kabra [Hindi] 

Enamelled Head [or 
Speckled] 

Madan Mast 

Mudam-mast 

Ever-bold 

Sada Mast 

Sada-xnast 

Always Drunk 



NAMES OF ELEPHANTS 


362 


NimTa 
Dil Cocha 
Baba Bach 
Nec Bach 
Mac Na 
Come Ria 
Bella 
Sarila 
Latif 
Nar Sing 
Quo Dero 
Fate Mabarecq 
Dil Dalel 
Chainaet 
Inae Bach 
Ala Bach 
Fate nasaret 
Daem Chacu 
Dilasa Charot 
Fate Jang 
Fate Lascar 
Rar Git 
Dul Singar 
Lascar Soba 
Dusman Cut 
Cala Paar 
Gas onor 
Quecha vorcucha 
Zell Zella 
Cuny 
Cof Nay 
Mahan Mohan 
Ma Mohon 
Op turn 
Bagmar 
Pur zor 
Maha Ru 
Setara 

Quechavar Gurur 

Sonder Gas 

Pay Tat 

Otha Chi 

Nur 

Lai 

Ira 

Coch Raftar 
Thes Roeh 
Manec Surot 


NimtSo 

Dil-kusha 

B§.ba-bakhsh 

Nek-ba^t 

Maknah 

Kamari 

Buland 

Sarila 

Latif 

Nar Singh 

ghiib-rau 

Path Mubarak 

Dil-diler 

Shah-*inayat 

Tnayat-baMsh 

AllgLh-b akh sh 

Fath-nusrat 

Da,im-shukoh 

Dilasa-sairat 

Fatb-jang 

Fatb'lashkar 

Ran-jit 

Dal-singar 

Lashkar-sobhS. 

Dushman-kush 

Kala-pah§r 

Ghussah-war 

Kashawar-kasha 

Zalzalah 

Elhiini 

Khauf-ngk 

Madan-mohan 

Maha-mohan 

Uttam 

Bagh-rnSr 

Pflr-i-zor 

Mah-rQ 

Sitara 

Kashawar- gli arur 

Sundar-gaj 

Pae-t alrTit 

Atashi 

Nar 

La'l 

Hira 

Khash-raftar 

Tez-rau 

Manik-surat 


Expert 

HeartHDpener 

Father’s Gift 

Handsome 

Tuskless 

Short [in back] 

Tall 

Polished 
Exquisite 
Male Lion 
Fine Mover 
Fortune of Victory 
Heart of Hearts 
Royal Gift 
Gift of Grace 
God-protected 
Victor Victorious 
Ever Great 
Polished Face 
Victory in War 
Army Conqueror 
Overcomer in War 
Army Ornament 
Army Beauty 
Enemy-treader 
Black Mountain 
Industrious 
Faithful Worker 
Earth>shaker 
The Slayer 
Frightener 
Heart-ravisher 
Amorous 
Exquisite 
Lion-slayer 
Full of Strength 
Moon-faced 
Star 

The Proud 

Good Name 

Foot of the Throne 

Burning 

Davm 

Ruby 

Diamond 

Good Mover 

Quick Walker 

Pearl-like 



TRAINING AND FEEDING ELEPHANTS 


363 


Bay La 
Daem Nasser 
Jund Cuor 
Queleso Can 
Coeh Secan 
Coch Saquel 


Baghela 

Da.im-nasr 

Chand-kunwar (?) 

Qila'h-shikan 

Koh-shikan 

KhQsh-sakil 


Lion’s Whelp 
Always Advancing 
Good Ball 
F ortress-destroyer 
Mountain-destroyer 
Supreme Beauty 


The greater number of these names are Hindu. Gas (gaj) 
means an elephant, and although several slaves, of one and the 
other sex, have similar names, one must not be astonished, 
for the king gives these names according to his fancy or some 
aptitude he detects in these animals. 

Usually the king has one hundred very tall elephants which 
he uses himself, and there are also female elephants, on whom 
he does not disdain to ride. All the elephants he rides are 
trained to stand fire of both artillery and musketry, of rockets, 
and other fireworks. This is done so that when they come 
across such things they may not be afraid. Others are taught 
not to be frightened of tigers or of lions, so that they may be 
used in hunting. To teach them, they take a tiger-skin or 
lion-skin, and stuff it with straw. Then, just as if it were alive, 
they move it here and there by a rope. The driver encourages 
the elephant, and urges him towards the dummy, which with 
feet and trunk he 'tears to pieces. The elephants are well 
looked after ; they are given spirits to drink to increase their 
courage in a fight. It is the rule that there shall always be 
one elephant on sentry duty day and night on the river bank 
[20], stationed within a little gateway just underneath the 
royal seat. 

Among these animals is one stronger and taller than the rest 
which bears the title of ‘ General of the Elephants.* When he 
appears at court he is very richly caparisoned, and attended by 
a number of other elephants, by flutes, trumpets, cymbals, and 
flags, all of which makes a grand show. The chief elephants 
have every day for their ration each one hundred and sixty-five 
pounds of food-stuff — namely, flour, rice, meat, butter, fine 
spices, and thirty pounds of sugar-cane. This is in addition to 
straw, grass, and leaves, for which they have twenty-five rupees 
a day. To "wait on each elephant there are ten servants — ^that 
is, two drivers to ride on and direct him; two to fix on his 



364 


USES OF ELEPHANTS 


chains; two men with spears; two for the fireworks and to 
assist the others, if necessary; one to remove the dung, and 
another to give him water for drinking and cooling himself. 
All these men are paid out of the twenty-five rupees a day 
allotted to the elephant, and these attendants have each four 
rupees a month, besides what they can steal from the elephant’s 
food. 

In addition to the above elephants there are fourteen hundred 
others that are employed to cany the queens, princesses, and 
the prince’s concubines, the tents, the baggage, and the kitchen 
utensils. The strongest of all, who have no tusks, draw the 
heavy artillery over difScult ground and perform such-like 
duties. The lowest among them has three rupees a day and 
three servants. All the elephants move with bells attached to 
their body, serving to warn the passers-by and give them time 
to move and get out of the way ; for when an elephant runs, or 
merely walks, he does not stop like a horse would. 

When the king makes them (the elephants) fight, the wives 
of the drivers remove their ornaments, smash their bracelets, 
and put on mourning, just as if they were widows. If their 
husbands come back alive they give a great feast, just as if 
newly married; for in these encounters and combats the 
drivers put their lives in great jeopardy, as I have seen several 
times. Moreover, though these animals are enormously strong, 
they do not have long lives, for often they fall suddenly to the 
ground and die in a short time. For, once they have fallen 
down, there is no hope of getting them up again ; that is why 
they remove their tusks and leave them where they are. 

The Mogul has within his empire many great forests and 
mountainous regions where it would be easy to let loose some 
of these animals to multiply. But this is not done ; the Hng 
observes the rules of his predecessors, who, ages ago, were told 
by astrologers that the male must not be allowed to approach 
the female, in case they might have young. That event would 
menace the empire with misfortune, and be of very bad augury. 
Hereafter (III. 144) I will speak of the manner in which these 
beasts produce young, the method of capture, also about the 
dogs of the country, and other curious matters [21]. 



NAMES OF GREAT CANNON 


36s 


The names of the principal cannon at the court axe : 


Orang var 
Caile can 
Bigily Passant 
Band Cassab 
Dal Dani 
Fata Lascar 
Ati Tel 

Dobtol Maydan 
Mulve Maydan 


Jang Aumar 
Sitom 
Delavar 
Chae naet 
Daem Cuchat 
Tir Cor 
Barge Sican 
Nacer Aby 
Cbae Doblot 
Ser Cuchat 
Nechan Rach 
Bee Cata 
Zafar Mulq 
Cha aramcor 
Chor Car 
Nam Dar 
Ganie avor 
Jang Talem 
Zal Zelah 
Ser Cor 
Johan Taleb 
Sitab Dam 
Turn Darec 
Dasnir 
Nazer Noma 
Zolom Alam 
Babal fata 
Tars 

Cozana Couchad 
Duchman Coch 
Atash parsha 
Tafan 
Rad 

Fayan Car 


Aurang-bar 

Kale^an 

Bijli-pasand 

Band-kushao 

Daldal! 

Fatb-i-lashkar 

Hathi-thal 

Daulat-i-maidan 

Malik-i-maidan 


Jang-awar 

Sitam 

Dilawar 

Shah-‘inayat 

Da.im-kushad 

Tir-^or 

Buzj-shikan 

Na^-abi 

Shah Daulat 

Sar-kushadah 

Nishan-i-rast 

Be-^ata 

Zafar-i-mulk 

Shah-haram-^or 

Shor-kar 

Namdar 

Ghani-awar 

Jang-talib 

ZalzaJah 

Sher-^or (?) 

Jahan-talib 

Shitab-dam 

Tumturaq 

bastUr 

Nazar-numa 

Zaiim-i‘Alam 

Bab-ul-fath 

Tars 

TTh a y.5nah -kushad 

Dushman-kush 

Atash-pazhoh 

TiXfan 

Ra‘d 

Fahim-kar (?) 


Strength of the Throne 
Great House 
Rajah-pusher 
Cruel Killer 
Black Cinders 
Army Victor 
Elephant Empress 
Riches of the Camp 
Destructress of the Camp 
[Aurangzeb found one 
exactly the same when he 
took Bijapur] 

Bail for War 

Punisher 

Lively 

Royal Gift 

Wide Mouth 

Valley-consumer 

Bastion-breaker 

Conqueror in Water 

Royal Riches 

Wide-headed 

Straight-hitter 

Faultless 

Conqueror of the Earth 

Rebel-conqueror 

Noise and War 

Famous 

His Highness 

Desirous for War 

Terror of the Earth 

Earth-consumer 

World-desiring 

Quick-firer 

Prompt-goer 

Custom 

Clear-sighted 

Tyrant of the World 

Gate-conqueror 

Fear 

Treasure-opener 

Enemy-slayer 

Fire-piece 

Whirlwind 

Thunder 

Sound or Noise 



366 


TITLES OF GENERALS 


Pur Nar 

Pur-i-nar 

Full of Fire 

Zolom Coch 

ZSUim-kush 

Tyrant-slayer 

Amac Abad 

Ahmaq-§.bad 

Teacher of Fools 

Dad Bedad 

Dad-bedad 

Unjust 

Cana Carab 

Khanah>i»kliarab 

Household-ruiner 

Gairan vazan 

Giran-wazn 

Dear and Heavy 

Adam Cor 

Adam-^or 

Man-eater 

Lascar Cor 

Lashkar-^or 

Army-eater 

Chaa burgi 

Shah'buiji 

Royal Bastion 

Aft tios 

Haft-josh 

Seven Metals 

Alamgir 

*Alam-gir 

World-taker 

Coch Acol 

Khush-*aql 

Good Judgment 

Zor Zabar 

Zor-zabr 

Violent 

Mulq Zabar 

Mulk-zabr 

World-violent 

Arrangan 

Ar^awin^ 

Strength 

Mac Chud 

MaqsQd 

Intention 

Car Anyan 

Kar-anjam 

Work-doer 

Atash Car 

Atash-kar 

Work of Fire 

The above comprises the principal and best artillery the 

Mogul possesses at his court. When he 

goes on a campaign 

he has some of these 

pieces carried with him, those taking a 

ball of from twenty to 

one hundred and twenty pounds. I also 

noticed that during the time of the war 

against the King of 

Bijapur he sent some of those pieces 

to Diler Sian and 

Bahadur ghan [ 22 ] . 

The names of the 

principal generals, 

with the meanings. 

are : 

Vizir Can 

Wazir Khan 

The Chief Minister 

Jafar Can 

Ja*£ar Khan 

Flourishing 

Zafar Can 

Zafar Khan 

Victorious 

Azel Can 

Fadl Khan 

Experienced 

Chaaiste Can 

Sha,istah Khan 

Perfect 

Alimarda Can 

*AK Mardan Khan 

Great among Men 

Aset Can 

Asad TThan 

Lion 

Chaf Cheqnen Can 

Saf Shikan Khan 

Field-clearer 

Fadae Can 

Fida,e Khan 

Sacrifice 

Baramud Can 

Baramad Khan 

Vanquisher 

Buala Can 

Bu *Ali Khan 

God’s Dawn 

Calilula Can 

Khaiaullah Khan 

God’s Least One 

Mir Can 

Mir Khan 

Great Captain 

Sic Mir 

She^ Mir 

Captain of Faithful 

Asadula Can 

Asadullah Khan 

Lion of God 


* ‘ Red,’ a name of the planet Mars. 



TITLES OF GENERALS 


367 


Lutfula Can 
Maharmat Can 
Bam Near 
Facar Can 
Mostecar Can 
Cassam Can 
Amed Can 
Janet 
Nacir Can 
Ranemast Can 
Dalel Can 
Bahader Can 
Adula Can 
Asis Can 
Sahadet Can 
Alayar Can 
Binder Can 
Nezabt Can 
Kaen Can 
Mahobet Can 
Nuchur Can 
Can Cana 
Afiet Can 
Nec Nam Can 
Baravar Can 
Amanet Can 
Queranda Can 
Carazat Can 
Molfet Can 
Facordin Can 
Salle Can 
Canezam Can 
Camordin Can 
Feat Can 
Jaban nezar Can 
Jahan sopar Can 
Suyavar Can 
Chefi Can 
Bairn Can 
Semchir Can 
Fosdar Can 
Mirza Sultan 
Mirza Nauzer Can 
Gaeb Nazer Can 
Danesbad Can 
Mabaram Can 
Salabet Can 
Quifaet Can 


Lutfullah Xhan 
Maraboiat Khan 
Baman>yar 
Fa]^r Khan 
Mustaqar Khan 
Qasim Khan 
H3.mid Khan 
‘InSyat 
Nasir Kh§.n 
Ranmast Kh5.n 
Diler Khan 
Bah§.dur Khan 
^Abdullah Kh5n 
‘Aziz Khan 
Sa*S.dat Khan 
AllahyS.r Khan 
Dindar E3ian 
Najabat Kh§n 
Qa,im Khan 
Mahabat Khan 
Naurilz Khan 
Khan Kh§.nan 
‘Afiyat Kh§n 
Neknam Khan 
Bax§.war Kh§.n 
AmSnat Trha.n 
Khair-andesh Khan 
Khanahzad Khan 
Multafat Khan 
Fa^r-ud-din Khan 
SSIih ]^an 
^SLn A*gam Kh§.n 
Qamar-ud-din Khan 
FayyS? Khan (?) 
J§n-nisar Khan 
Jan-sipar ^O^an 
Shuja'-war KhSn 
Shaii* Khan 
Bins, KhS.n 
Shamsher ^an 
Faujdar Khan 
Mirza Sultan 
Mirza. Nauzar Khan 
GhSib-nazir Khan 
DSnishmand Khan 
Mfl-hra m Kh5.n 
Salabat Khan 
kifayat Khan 


God’s Grace 
Given 
My Friend 
The Great 
Taker of Favour 
The Sharer 
The Chosen 
Favour 
Victorious 
Bold in War 
Animated 
Brave 

Slave of God 
Beloved 
Fortunate 
God’s Friend 
Firm in Faith 
Noble 
Constant 
Loved 
New Day 

Noble of the House 

Profitable 

Good Name 

Gainer 

Deputy 

Good Care 

Brought up in the House 
Loving 

Praise of Faith 

Obliging, Useful 

Great of the Age 

Moon of Faith 

Profitable 

Sacrificed 

Life-sacrificer 

Valour 

Alert 

Pitiable 

Great Sword 

Lord of the Army 

Chief Captain 

Captain of New Coin 

Seeing the Future 

Philosopher 

Confidante 

Majestic 

Acquirer 



TITLES OF GENERALS 


368 


Cammiab Can 

Kamyab ghan 

Intention 

Rostum Can 

Rustam Khan 

Powerful 

Namdar Can 

Namdar Khan 

Renowned 

Kaemgar Can 

Kamgar j^an 

Firm 

Asmat Can 

A‘gmat Khan 

Divine 

Adel Can 

‘Adil Khan 

Just 

Purdel Can 

Purdil Khan 

Full Heart 

Camaludin Can 

Kamal-ud-din Khan 

Perfect in Faith 

Chaabndin Can 

Shahab-ud-din Khan 

Crowned in the Faith 

Que Azudin Can 

Ghiyaz-ud-din Khan 

Pedant in Faith 

Guelis Can 

Qilich Khan 

Sword [the word is Turkish] 

Zabar Dest Can 

Zabardast Khan 

Strong-handed 

Chaazor Can 

Shah-zor Khan 

King of Strength 

Dahem Can 

Da,im Kh§.n 

For Ever 

Fate yan Can 

Fatb-yab Khan 

Victorious 

Mazar Can 

Ma^har Kh§.n 

Clearness 

Julfacar Can 

ZUjlfiqar Khan 

He of the Sword 

Zenali Can 

Zain *Ali Kh 5 n 

Good and Great 

Afzel Can 

Afzal Khan 

Sage or Learned 

Daut Can 

Da, fid Khan 

David 

Ganiali Can 

jan *Ali ]^an 

The Great Diwan 

Ebraim Can 

Ibrahim Khan 

Abraham 

Assen Can 

Hasan Khan 

Alert 

Sarfaras Can 

Sarfaraz Khan 

Great Head 

Zaquer Can 

Zakir Khan 

Devout 

Dianet Can 

Diyanat Khan 

Well-meaning 

Assolet Can 

Asalat Khan 

Of Good Family 

Miragol Can 

Miran Gul Khan 

Great Flower 

Mobares Can 

hlubarak ^an 

Of Good Fame 

Rassod Can 

Rashid Khan 

Arrived 

Diamaut Can 

Ni'mat Khan (?) 

Delights 

Fatnla Can 

Fath-ullah Khan 

Victorious by God 

Gazafar Can 

Ghazanfar Khan 

Victorious in War 

Addi Can 

Had! Khan 

The Guide 

Abach Can 

Habshi ]^an (?) 

Flower 

Ahe Bet Can 

Haibat Khan 

Astonishment 

Naby Can 

Nabi Khan 

Riches 

Tabar Can 

Tabar ]aan 

Hatchet 

Chuchurula 

Khusru. Chela (?) or Allah (?) God’s Grace [23] 

Etcad Can 

I*tiqad ^an 

Steadfast 

Izet Can 

Tzzat Khan 

Honoured 

Rangit Can 

Ranjit Khan 

Conqueror in War 

Atach Can 

Atash Khan 

Great Fire 

Barcandas Can 

Barqandaz Khan 

Great Lightning 

Jangnir Can 

Jahangir Khan 

World-seizer 

Cochnazar Can 

Khush-nazar Khan 

Good Sight 

Aref Can 

‘Arif Khan 

Advice 

Abdul bafa 

‘Abd-ul-wafe 

Profii 



RANK OR MAN9AB 


369 


Abdul fata 
Abdul Azis 
Abdur Razac 
Camel Can 
Osdar Can 


•Abd-ul-fattab 
*Abd-ul-*azIz 
•Abd-ur-razzSq 
Kamil Kh &n 
Hoshdar Khan 


Victory 
Slave of God 
Daily Bread 
Greatness 
Quick-witted 


All the persons here dealt with are Mahomedans by religion, 
but of different races. They are the principal noblemen in 
Hindustan, and the king confers these names either as a mark 
of distinction and of the esteem he holds them in by reason of 
their services, or else from friendship and liking. These lords 
can acquire more wealth as well as more titles — that is to say, 
when any new title is given them their allowance is augmented. 
At present there is a very great number of them ; but in Shah- 
jahan’s days it was not so, and it was very hard to acquire 
these titles, for it was at once necessary to give a heavy pay- 
ment and produce enough to maintain a great display. But 
nowadays Aurangzeb pays less heed to the matter, and gives 
the titles but with much less pay. * Can ’ (Eb5n) means 

* noble.’ 

The way in which the Mogul king pays his soldiers, the 
captains and generals of his armies, the rajahs, the queens, 
the princes and princesses of his blood, was all laid down by 
King Akbar, in different fashions, to demonstrate his great- 
ness.^ 

Hi kec Bisti (Yak-bTstl) — ^that is, ‘ A Twenty.’ 

It is necessary to state that these kings pay every one of those 
above-named according to three different titles or degrees. 
The highest and first title is called ‘ of twelve,’ the second ‘ of 
six,’ and the third ‘ of four months.’ But it is so arranged, 
however, that he who has only pay of the third class receives 
in the year the amount promised him, or even somewhat in 

^ In this section on mansab (official rank), and the pay attached to it, Manucci 
does not seem to have penetrated to the real meaning of the system. He couples 
the rank (mansab) and the pay together, as if the one directly indicated the other. 
But in the phrase (let us say) * 3, Hazan ’ (of or belonging to r,ooo), the suppressed 
noun is not * rupees,’ but * horsemen.' A Hazarl appointment means, to start 
with, 'command over z,ooo horsemen’; hence the ffiscrepancies in the rates, 
which Manucci only makes more obscure. The tables and remarks in Blochmann’s 

* A,in-i-Akbari,’ vol. i., pp. 236-249, should consulted. 

VOL. II. 


24 



370 


RANK OR MAN SAB 


excess. The others receive much more. To make the matter 
clearer, you must know that when the king gives a horseman 
twenty rupees a month in the first class, he ought to receive 
seven hundred and fifty rupees in the year; in the second, 
three hundred and seventy-five ; and in the third, two hundred 
and fifty. This last is the amount that pay at twenty rupees 
a month comes to plus ten rupees. This sum is thus given 
because it is a rule made by King Akbar, as I have said. 
According to the above you can calculate all the different sorts 
of pay that exist, by following the more detailed account 
which I am about to give. 

Another thing is that when a man has risen to the amount 
of one thousand rupees, when he is called azari Qiazan), the 
pay increases considerably ; for this reason it is unnecessary to 
see whether it is or is not much above the others according to 
the rule of proportion. When we get to five hazarTs — that is, 
‘five thousand’ — the pay rises still more above that of the 
‘thousand,’ a matter that will seem to the reader very 
strange; but such is the custom and the established rule, 
from which in this country there is hardly ever any dis- 
pensation [24]. 

Do Bisti — that is, ‘ Tw^o Twenties.’ 

When a man has forty rupees a month in the first class of 
twelve months, he receives in the year five thousand rupees ; in 
the second class, of six months, seven hundred and fifty ; and 
in the third class, of four months, five hundred. The king 
fixes these rates according to the merit and the services of the 
persons, sometimes from favour or caprice, or in many cases 
from the man’s sheer luck and good fortune; for in India, as 
elsewhere, virtue is not always rewarded. 

Ce Bisti {Sih-bTstt ) — that is, ‘ Three Twenties.’ 

When a man gets sixty rupees a month in the first class, he 
receives annually two thousand two hundred and fifty rupees ; 
in the second, one thousand one hundred and twenty-five ; and 
in the third, seven hundred and fifty. 



RANK OR MANSAB 


371 


Charbisti (Chahar Bistt ) — ^that is to say, ‘ Four Twenties/ 

When a man has eighty rupees a month in the first class, he 
receives annually three thousand rupees ; in the second, one 
thousand five hundred ; and in the third, one thousand* 

Hi Hec Sadi (Yak-sadl ) — ^that is, ‘ One Hundred.’ 

When a man has one hundred rupees a month in the first 
class, he receives annually three thousand seven hundred and 
fifty rupees; in the second, one thousand eight hundred and 
seventy-five ; and in the third, twelve hundred and fifty. 

Do Sadi (JDu-sadl ) — ^that is, ^ Two Hundred.’ 

When a man has two hundred rupees a month in the first 
class, he receives seven thousand five hundred rupees a year ; 
in the second, three thousand seven hundred and fifty ; and in 
the third, two thousand five hundred. 

Sih Sadi (Sih~sadl ) — that is, ‘ Three Hundred.’ 

When a man has three hundred rupees a month in the first 
class, he receives annually eleven thousand two hundred and 
fifty rupees; in the second, five thousand six hundred and 
twenty-five ; and in the third, three thousand seven hundred 
and fifty. 

Char Sadi {Chahar’^adi ) — that is, ‘ Four Hundred.’ 

When a man has four hundred rupees a month in the first 
class, he receives annually fifteen thousand rupees ; in the 
second, seven thousand five hundred ; and in the third, five 
thousand. 

Pa7tge Sadi (Panj~sadt ) — that is, ‘ Five Hundred.’ 

When a man has five hundred rupees a month in the first 
class, he receives eight thousand seven hundred and fifty rupees ; 
and in the third, six thousand two hundred and fifty. 

Chech Sadi (Shash-sadz ) — ^that is, ^ Six Hundred.’ 

When a man has six hundred rupees a month in the first 
class, he receives annually twenty-two thousand five hundred 

24 — 2 



372 


RANK OR MANSAB 


rupees; in the second, eleven thousand two hundred and fifty; 
and in the third, seven thousand five hundred. 

Aff Sadi {Hafi-?adt } — ^that is, ‘ Seven Hundred.’ 

When a man has seven hundred rupees a month in the first 
class, he receives annually twenty-six thousand two hundred 
and fifty rupees ; in the second, thirteen thousand one hundred 
and twenty-five ; and in the third, eight thousand seven hundred 
and fifty. 

Ast Sadi {Hasht-?adt ) — ^that is, * Eight Hundred.’ 

When a man has eight hundred rupees a month in the first 
class, he receives annually thirty thousand rupees; in the 
second, fifteen thousand ; and in the third, ten thousand [25]. 

Nou Sadi (Nuh-§adl ) — ^that is, ‘ Nine Hundred.’ 

When a man has nine hundred rupees a month in the first 
class, he receives annually three thousand seven hundred and 
fifty rupees ; in the second, sixteen thousand eight hundred and 
seventy-five; and in the third, eleven thousand two hundred 
and fifty. 

All the rates of pay given above, from twenty up to nine 
hundred rupees a month, are those the king gives to the 
imncebdars \man§abdar ) — that is, ‘ nobles of the ro3^ court.’ 
To get the haz&rl or the pay of one thousand, it is necessary 
to wait a long time and work hard. For the kings only grant 
it sparingly, and only to those who by their services or their 
skill in affairs have arrived at the stage of deserving it. In 
having this rate of pay accorded to you, they give you also the 
title of omem (umarS ) — ^that is, * noble.’ 

Hi Hec Azary, Omarao (Yak Hazarl, Umard ) — that is, ‘ One 
Thousand ’ and the title of Umard. 

When you hold a hazdn (one thousand) per month in the first 
class, you receive annually fifty thousand rupees ; in the second, 
twenty-five thousand; and in the third, sixteen thousand six 
hundred and sixty-six and two-thirds. Men who have once risen 



RANK OR MAN SAB 


373 


to this rate of pay and the title of hazdrl are obliged to maintain 
at the court one elephant and six horses for the king’s service. 
Those who are absent are required to leave orders with their 
representative to see after this duty, otherwise a deduction is 
made from your pay to meet the upkeep of an equal number of 
these animals. Men who hold the two haz&rl must maintain 
two elephants and twenty horses, and thus with each rise in 
pay a man is obliged to increase the number of these animals 
and their keep, in proportion to the number of hazarls that he 
holds. 

Do Azary Omarao {Du-liazari^ Umara) — that is, ' Two Thousand’ 
and the title of Umam. 

When a man has two hazdrl (thousand) a month in the first 
class, he receives annually a hundred thousand rupees ; in the 
second, fifty thousand ; and in the third, thirty-three thousand 
three hundred and thirty-three. 

Sih Azary, Omarao, Saeb Nobat {Sih-hazdri, Untard, ^dbib-i- 
Naubat) — ^that is, ^ Lord of Musical Instruments.’ 

When a man has three thousand in the first class, he receives 
annually one hundred and fifty thousand rupees ; in the second, 
seventy-five thousand ; and in the third, fifty thousand. When 
you have reached this rate of pay and this height of honour, 
the king allows you to have a retinue of drums, flutes, and 
trumpets, which is almost the retinue of a prince. 

Char Azary, Omarao, Saeb Nobat {Chahdr-hazdrl, Umard, Sahib- 
i-Naubat) — that is, * Lord of Musical Instruments.* 

When a man has four hazdrts a month in the first class, he 
receives annually two hundred thousand rupees ; in the second, 
one hundred ; and in the third, sixty-six thousand six hundred 
and sixty-six. 

Panje Azary, Omarao, Saeb Nobat {Panj-hazdrl, Umard, Sahib- 
i-Naubat) — ^that is, * Lord of Musical Instruments-’ 

When a man has five hazdris in the first class, he receives 
two million fifty thousand rupees a year ; in the second, one 



374 


PAY AND ALLOWANCES 


million twenty-five thousand rupees ; in the third, six hundred 
and eighty-three thousand six hundred and thirty-three [26]. 
Ordinarily persons who attain this rate of pay and this grade are 
already advanced in age, men of understanding and experience. 
When they hold it in the first class, they are viceroys or generals 
leading armies, and at court occupy all the most important 
positions ; but of these there are very few. Those holding this 
rank in the second class fill offices of the same kind as the 
first class, only of less importance ; these are more numerous. 
Finally, those of the third class have also charges similar to 
the others, and are also employed throughout the empire, each 
one according to his capacity and his birth. Of this last class 
there are still more than of the second class. 

Chech Azary, Omarao, and Cavany (Shash-hazdn, Umara, and 
J^awamn ^) — that is, ‘ Gentleman of the Royal Household,’ 
‘Lord of the State and Instruments.’ These men are 
required to maintain soldiers of Do-aspa {Du-aspah) and of 
Ce-aspa (Sih-aspah) — that is, ‘ Soldiers with two and with 
three horses.’ 

Those persons who have six hazdris a month receive annually 
three millions of rupees ; those who have seven, three million 
five hundred thousand rupees, coupled with leave to keep a 
larger and more splendid retinue than others. But they are 
obliged to do the same duties as the rest, as already described. 
In the empire there are not usually at one time more than five 
or six persons who have reached this pre-eminent honour. 
These are the highest lords, and no subject who is not a 
prince can rise any higher. Their retinue is as large and as 
superb as a prince’s. The only difference is that the allowances 
of the latter are much greater than those of the former. Never- 
theless, over and above their fixed income, the king rewards 
them at times, and causes various amounts to be paid to them, 
under pretext that it is for their betel-leaf, their fruit, or their 
sweetmeats, and so forth. 

When the king fixes, or gives orders about, the allowances of 
a fncm^abdar or an umara, he does not talk of * rupees,’ but of 
^ The Arabic plural of TThan. 



P^y AND ALLOWANCES 


375 


darns, which is a money of account, of which they make forty 
go to the rupee. When he fixes the rate of pay of these gentle- 
men, or he makes any gift, he says they are to give to So- 
and-so so many thousands, so many lakhs, or so many karors 
of dams. 

The foremost of those noblemen of whom I have just spoken 
is the Secretary of State ; the next is the Viceroy of the province 
of Kabul ; the third the Viceroy of the Dakhin ; the fourth the 
Viceroy of Bengal ; the fifth the Viceroy of Ujjain (= Malwah). 
Ordinarily these five lords may seat themselves in the presence 
of princes of the blood when these give them permission. 

Ofiicers and soldiers on small pay are usually paid from the 
royal treasury ; ten per cent, is deducted from their pay under 
the regulations made by King Akbar. 

The queens and princesses are paid half from the royal 
treasury and half in land or in rents, which always yield more 
than the amount in exchange for which they have been granted. 
All the other women [27] of the royal household are paid in 
ready money. Some of the chief ph3reicians and some men of 
learning are also paid as the queens and princesses are, 
in proportion to their allowances. For paying the great multi- 
tude of people in the prince’s service four places [of payment] 
are fixed, where all is carried out with much order. 

The persons who have three of pay and higher rates, 
as far as seven hazans, are required to maintain horses according 
to their pay. For this purpose they have assignments which 
produce a good revenue. A man getting the pay of a hazdrl 
in the first class is obliged to keep two hundred and fifty horse- 
men of different races — ^that is to say, sixty-four Pathans, sixty- 
four Mug^als, sixty- four Rajputs; the remainder are Sai3dds, 
She^zadahs, and so forth. The regulation still observed up 
to this day was made by King Akbar. 

Those with the same rate in the second class are obliged 
to keep one hundred and twenty-five horsemen of the above 
races, and the same with all the other classes. So much so 
that all these lords are obliged to have cavalry, but propor- 
tionally, according to the rate of pay and the class they hold. 
In addition to their pay the king gives them, for the upkeep of 



376 


BRANDING OF HORSES 


this cavalry, lands and a special income, which ought to pro- 
duce thirty rupees a day^ for each horseman. But usually 
these assignments bring in more than is set down in the king’s 
registers as the sum for which they are allotted. 

A man, then, who has a hazSrl in the first class receives 
altogether every year — ^that is to say, in cash for his own pay 
and what is fixed for his soldiers — ^the sum of one hundred and 
forty thousand rupees. Those who have lower pay, such as 
four, five, and seven §adis and the rest, who are also under an 
obligation of maintaining cavalry, conduct themselves by the 
same regulation and in the same order. This governs all ranks 
up to seven hazarts. 

Troopers in the king’s service who have the pay of a bisti, 
(twenty), are required to keep each one horse ; those who have 
two blstl must keep two ; and those who have the sad panjai 
(^ad-panjdht) — ^that is, one hundred and fifty rupees — ought to 
keep three horses; those with a §ad%, two; those with two 
?adl, four. Although in the course of time a man may get 
advanced as far as seven hazarl (thousand), he remains always 
under the same obligation of maintaining four horses bearing 
the king’s brand. 

All the horsemen who are tnan?abdars under the king must 
have impressed on the right flank of their horses a mark made 

like this which is the royal brand. From the day that they 
get this mark made their pay begins. The generals also cause 
a brand to be placed on the horses of their troopers, but it is 
made on the left flank. Their brand is usually the first letter 
of their name, and their men’s pay begins also on the day that 
the brand is imprinted. 

Every horseman in the king’s service must have a Turkish 
horse, and not one reared in India. The latter are timid and 
restive. They must also equip themselves with artnes blanches 
and a coat of mail. The princes of the blood ro}^ administer 
their households in the same manner, but from the pay of their 
soldiers there is a deduction of twenty per cent. 

In spite of all that is said above, I must give warning that 


^ Evidently a mistake for * a month.* 



ROZINAH OR DAILY ALLOWANCES 


377 


the king does not generally pay everyone by the rules that I 
have inserted. For since there are in his service an innumer- 
able crowd of men with varying employments and duties, he on 
his side makes many differing rates of pay, giving from a blsil 
(twenty) and a blstl and a half to some, up to a sadz (hundred) 
and a §adl and a half to others, going on increasing, to some 
more to some less, till one hazdrl (thousand) is reached. At 
that point the title of untard (noble) is given, and from hazdrl 
(thousand) a man rises from rank to rank by gradations. 

There is still another mode of payment called ruzindar 
{rozlnah-ddr) — that is, pay by the day given to infantry and 
cavalry. Yet, although they have this name, they are not thus 
paid: several months are allowed to elapse. Usually in the 
mabali or the apartments in which are secluded the women 
of the king’s household, as I have described several times 
(III. 3-10), all allowances are of this sort, excepting, however, 
those of the queens and princesses. Of these [allowances], the 
lowest are of half a rupee ; the rest are of one, two, four, seven, 
ten, and up to twenty and thirty ; in this the quality of the 
person and his merits are regarded. Christians — that is to say, 
the gunners and the surgeons — are also paid after this manner. 

All soldiers, high and low, generals and captains, are forced 
to give surety, and without it they cannot obtain employment. 
This practice is so common and so general that even the 
princes find it necessary to conform to the custom. 

Whenever the king, or some commander in his name, wants 
to raise soldiers, infantry or cavaliy, it is not necessary to make 
any great stir. For a thousand at a time will attend to take 
service, and of these the best are chosen. This applies as 
much to the cavalry as to the infantry ; still, there are more 
who present themselves for the latter service than the former. 
When the horse of a trooper dies, he must on the same day 
bring the hide with the brand and the other marks on it for 
inspection of the officer in charge of that duty. He is given 
seven days to buy another, otherwise his pay is reduced. 

Twice a year the bachi (bal^shl), the chief commander of 
cavalry, holds a review of all the cavalry present at court, 
examines all the horses, and sees whether any of them are old 



378 


MUSTERS AND INSPECTIONS 


and unfit for service. In the latter case he makes the owners 
get rid of them and buy others. Throughout the empire there 
are similar officers bearing the same name, and these are 
required each in his locality to perform the same duty. When 
the king dispatches any officer, it is necessary for him to 
appear at the head of his troops and show them in review 
order on the river-bank below the royal palace, and three days 
after that he is bound to start. 

If the troopers are not good men and do not make a good 
appearance they are turned out, or their pay is deducted from 
that disbursed to the generals or captains. These gentlemen 
(the generals) have generally each in his stable fifty, a hundred, 
and up to two himdred horses for show or service. On the 
day of the review they equip their servitors and mount them 
on these horses, and pass them off as soldiers, putting to the 
account of profit the pay these men draw. In every quarter of 
the empire there are officials who keep an eye on everything, 
or, at least, ought to do so ; for, being at a distance from the 
court, they do not acquit themselves of their duty as loyal 
subjects ought. But they are negligent by reason of the 
presents given them to that intent by the persons interested. 
Owing to these considerations they practise concealment, and 
never dream of enforcing the performance of duties. Many 
a time have I witnessed this. Those who ought to keep fifty 
horses, more or less, very frequently have no more than six to 
eight, and entertain no soldiers, although there are men ready 
to enlist with branded horses, such as I have described. To 
all these regulations they pay little or no heed, thinking solely 
of their own [29] enjoyments, without troubling about any- 
thing else. 

The generals and officers keep to no fixed rules in paying 
their soldiers, for to some they will give twenty or thirty rupees, 
to others forty, fifty, or a hundred. Usually they make great 
promises, but not even a half is received, each one paying 
according to his caprice and the reputation that he is emulous 
of acquiring for his efficient retinue or establishments. The 
wretched soldiers naturally agree to an3fthing, all the more 
readily since they have no other means of livelihood. All this 



IRREGULARITY IN PAYMENT 


379 


contributes much to the bad payment of everyone that is so 
common ; for the money they get comes to them only in 
driblets, and when all is said and done it does not come to 
a great deal. For in respect of one year’s service they receive 
six or eight months’ pay. Even that is not all in coin ; they 
are always foisted off as respects two months’ pay with clothes 
and old raiment from the household. Over and above this, 
there is almost always due to them the pay for two or three 
years’ service. The soldiers are obliged to borrow money at 
interest from the sarrafs, or money-changers. These men lend 
to them, it is true, but it is hardly ever without a command 
from the general or officer; and these latter have an under- 
standing with them about the profit from interest, which they 
share between them. 

Sometimes the soldiers sell their papers to these money- 
changers, who for a note of hand for one hundred rupees will 
give them twenty or twenty-five. It is by these and such-like 
extortions that these generals ruin the wretched soldier, who, 
unable to find other means of gaining his bread, is forced to 
remain on in his service. Speaking generally, it is impossible 
for them to escape such extortions, for these disorders reign 
throughout all the princes’ establishments. If anyone resigns 
service at his own request, they deduct two months’ pay. 

Actually, as I am writing on this subject, an affair has arisen 
at St. Thome which proves the truth of what I say. One 
thousand soldiers from the fortress of Gingy (JinjI), which is 
in the Carnate (Karnatik), have come to the aforesaid St. 
Thome to pray the dlwan to give them enough to meet their 
expenses, not only for themselves, but for seven thousand 
others who had remained, behind in the fortress. They ask 
this as a sum on account in respect of three years of pay 
owed to them by the king. At first he refused, but in spite 
of that they have so pressed him that at last he has given 
them five months’ pay, half in money and half in old clothes, 
reckoned by him at a good deal above their value. 

In these days many similar disputes occur, owing to the 
want of order in the government, and everybody’s only thought 
is to steal. But whatever happens, it rarely reaches the king’s 



38 o disobedience OF KING’S ORDERS 

ears, for he being old — some eighty-five years of age — and also 
taken up with this war against the ShivS JI (the Mahrattahs), 
his empire, too, being of such a vast extent, he is unable to 
put a stop to all this injustice and misrule, which his ministers 
carry on with impunity. They tell him what they please, and 
having their friends and agents at court, they cause presents 
to be made to this man and that, by which means they obtain 
what they want, joined with impunity for ever3dhing. 

There are even some officers who, being far away from 
headquarters, do not obey the orders coming to them from 
the king; and when they are [30] commanded to relieve any 
place or assist any person, they invent excuses on the ground 
that they have not the requisite funds. Thereupon the king 
makes payment to them of some money out of his treasury, 
to be deducted thereafter from their pay. But in the interval 
it often happens that the enemy invade the country and carry 
off all they can find. These officers think only of their own 
interests, and they occasion great loss to private individuals 
recommended to them. This I have seen happen many times, 
and here is an instance which is quite recent. 

It consists in what happened to the Chevalier Nouris (Sir 
William Norris), ambassador of England,^ this gentleman 

1 Sir William Norris (1657-1702) came as envoy to the Mogul in the interests 
of the new East India Company. He landed at Masulipatam on September 25, 
1699, if again on August 26, 1700. He reached Swally (SHrat) on 

December 10, and proceeded thence to the Mogul camp vii Burhanpur. On 
November 5, 1701, he quitted the Mogul camp without permission. He sailed 
for England on May 5, 1702, and died at sea from dysentery on December 10, 
1703 (‘Dictionary of National Biography,* vol. xli., p. 144, by S. L. Poole). 
A few details can be gleaned from the India Office archives, * Factory Records 
Miscellaneous,’ vol. xix. On January 12, 1700, he was waiting for a safe conduct 
to the camp, 800 miles distant. On March ii he was still waiting. On April 15 
Consul John Pitt’s letter to Manucci at Madras and his reply were read (see the 
Introduction). Imam Qul! Beg, with camels for carriage, was expected (April 23), 
but they were trying to get ox-carriage. On April 24 a protest at the delays was 
delivered, but the President and Council were indignant at it. Norris retorted 
by calling Masulipatam a * barren place.* The start fixed for May i could not 
take place for want of palki-bearers and coolies, and on May 4 an Englishman 
was sent to Gulkandah to procure them. May 31 came, and still no start had 
been made. Norris suspected underhand dealings to cause delay. On June 4 
it seems a mace-bearer had been several times to the faiijdar of Goodra (? Giidflr) 
to obtain oxen, but without success ; and the next day the messenger returned to 



CASE OF SIR W. NORRIS 


381 


being on the point of starting from the port of Machhlipatnam 
on his way to court with four halberdiers with silver maces, 
men sent to him by the king to accompany him, and also a 
asbelocum — that is, a special order to all the 

viceroys, governors, and deputies to allow him passage, and 
to escort him to the frontier of each man’s province. 

He made a start, but from the very first stage he was 
stopped by the faujdar, or king’s deputy, who asserted that 
he must pay customs duty on what he was carrying. The 
man said the king’s orders were worth nothing in this matter ; 
the halberdiers wanted to intervene, but their protestations 
were equally without effect. The result was that the ambas- 
sador was forced to retrace his steps and sell all the animals 
he had, such as horses, camels, bullocks, etc., his carts, and 
other requisites for such journeys. This has caused him 
considerable loss through the great expense incurred, the 
whole of which was thrown away. 

This ambassador afterwards embarked for the port of Sfirat 
in the month of August of the year 1700, meaning to travel 
thence to the court, and there renew his efforts for the establish- 
ment of the new English company’s trade within the Mogul 

say that the GuntUr official would give no help— his only orders were to conduct 
the embassy safely through his jurisdiction. Next, the faujdar of Masulipatam 
was appealed to. He said he had ordered the coolies, but there were no oxen ; 
still, he would try to get them from Guntur. On June 6, 1700, the land journey 
was given up, and the party resolved to take ship for Surat. All horses (10), 
oxen (58), hackeries (carts, 24), and camels, the. whole costing Rs. 18,659.7.0, 
were sent to the President for disposal, Noiris declared he had been betrayed 
and the native governors bribed. On June 15 a declaration was made to the 
waqi*ah navis (official reporter), Mir Muhammad Sa'id, stating these grievances. 
The wdqi*ah navis, a new man, offered help, and said he heard the oxen were not 
refused ; the difficulty was about their price. It appears the contract was for 
600 oxen, and advances were given. The ambassador had moved out some two 
miles before the final refusal arrived from GuntUr, and the approach of the rains 
made the journey impossible. Norris refused to change his intention of going 
round by sea. Then Mir SSlib. faujdar of GQdur, offered an escort of horse, and 
even resorted to threats. On August 15 the whole party embarked on the 
Sommers (Captain John Douglas) for SUrat. Guntur (Kistna district) is forty-four 
miles west of Masulipatam ; Gadiir is three and three-quarter miles west of same 
(* Madras Manual of Administration,' iii, 335, 321). Manucci returns to the 
subject of Norris in Part IV., fol. 33. 




382 


A PERSISTENT OLD WOMAN 


empire. Those gentlemen wrote me several letters, principally 
Jean Pitt, consul of the new company, praying me to help 
them in their business at the court, which I was unable to 
perform for many reasons.^ 

By all that I have stated above it can be seen that the 
government of the Mogul empire is nothing but one vast 
disorder. Upon this it will not be, I think, inappropriate to 
recount another adventure concerning an old woman. This old 
woman complained to the king that the officials had taV^n her 
land ; and in reference thereto at six different times did the king 
give her his asbelocums or his written order, to get 

her back her property. In spite of all this, nothing came of it. 

When she came with a seventh rescript, the officials lost 
their temper, and had her thrust out with the words that, if 
she came again with orders like that, they would throw her into 
a place which they named plainly enough, but decency requires 
me to leave unsaid. Back went the good lady to complain 
to the king while he was seated giving audience ; she shouted 
out to him the answer she had got from his officials. Without 
getting angry, the prince replied that as they* would not obey, 
he could do nothing, and she must lay her plaints before God. 
Yet it is by similar neglect that the kingdom has now been 
brought to ruin, for if Aurangzeb followed [31] the course 
of his father, there would not be seen so much disorder as is 
to be found nowadays. For any such disobedience he (Shah- 
jah^) had the man’s head cut off, or took his life by means 
of venomous snakes. 

In addition to all this, it is not alone the Mogul’s officials 
who cause the maladministration, but the prince himself many 
a time does not keep his word. For he may make, be it 
to a prince or to a subject, the present of a province or of 
some allowance from it, or some other thing of considerable 
extent ; and he may confirm it by the royal farmdn usually 
issued in such cases (I will give a delineation of one further on).® 

* The subject of Sir W. Norris's embassy is resumed in Part IV., f. 33. For 
John Pitt’s letters and Manucca's answers, see the Introduction. 

® N. M. seems to have forgotten to carry out this promise — at any rate, in the 
Beriin Codex. ’ 



LITTLE VALUE OF FARMANS 


383 


Nevertheless, it often happens that the present Mogul has no 
hesitation in falsif5nng his word and that of others, and making 
a mock of his own farm&ns. 

As an example of what I say, Shahjahan had given a \nllage 
to ‘All Mardan Shan, quite near the river Chenon (Chinab) ; it 
was called Nicader (Nikodar).^ It was given in perpetuity, for 
himself and his descendants. Aurangzeb, disregarding the 
word of his father and his king, and without the commission of 
any fault by ‘All Mardan ^an, took possession of the place 
and ousted the possessor. 

He did just the same to Rajah Jai Singh, and occupied the 
lands conquered by that noble from the rebel MewStis and those 
in the province of Saomber (Sambhar). This is just the way he 
behaved to Shiva jl, as I have related (II. 17). The Hindu king, 
the Rana, and many others that I do not mention, have suffered 
from the same sort of deception, not to call it anything more. 
He also broke faith with the Dutch. On different occasions 
they sent embassies to the court to ask for a farman according 
them some privileges that they had long asked for without ever 
being able to obtain. 

At last, in the year 1688, they sent a person called Mr. Bald® 
as their ambassador, with a superb and m agnificent retinue, as 
a means of demonstrating their power. They also sent a con- 
siderable present for the King, which had cost more than two 
hundred thousand pieces of eight,® this without counting all 
the expenses he incurred during the year’s time he was madp 
to wait before he got his letters answered. Nevertheless, during 
his stay the king gave him many marks of favour, honoured 
him with the title of Golzar can (Gulzar ]^an)* — ^that is, 

1 Nikodar, in the Sarhar of the Beth Jalandhar Dudbah of the Labor Subah (see 
‘ A,in-i-Akbari/ ii. 317, Jarrett), lat. 31“ Io^ long. 75® 28', seventy miles south-east 
by east from Labor (Thornton, * Gazetteer,* 681). 

^ See separate note at the end of the next paragraph. 

® ‘Piece of eight’ was the dollar or pataca, and therefore, according to 
Manucci, worth two rupees (see Yule^ 638). Fryer, edition 1873, p. 223, says the 
‘ piece of eight ’ was worth nine fanam. 

4 The fact is confirmed by a letter in the Dutch archives from Bisharat THisn . 
dtwan of Gulkandah, in which he addresses the ambassador as ‘ Commandeur 
Johannes Bacherus Gooljaar Chan ’ (i.e, Gulza ]^an). 



384 


DUTCH EMBASSY, 1688 


‘ Great and Flourishing ’ — and at length sent him away with a 
properly-executed farman, which granted to his nation the 
privileges they asked for. 

When the ambassador had returned to Masulipatam, the 
Dutch, rel5ung on the king’s word and on the fannSm they had 
obtained from him, sent some bullocks and carts loaded with 
merchandise, such as spices, broadcloth, copper, and other 
things, to be sold at various spots in the empire. But at the very 
start the whole was stopped by the king’s officers, who demanded 
payment to them of customs’ duty, saying that the farman did 
not deal with that question. This affair raised some amount 
of dispute between the two parties, and the officers wrote to 
court that iSat farman obtained by the Dutch had raised their 
pride and haughtiness to such a degree that, abandoning all 
respect for His Majesty’s officers, they had raised their hands 
against them. They aggravated still more the offence [32] 
they pretended to have received by several additional details. 
Thereupon the king, without having heard the Dutch story, 
set aside the/amStt he had issued to them, and declared it of 
no effect. 


NOTE ON THE DUTCH EMBASSY TO THE 
MOGUL IN 1688. 

N. Manucci is wrong in the name of the envoy ; it should be 
Bachems, and not Bald, The only Balde or Baldseus known is 
Philip Baldaeus, a Dutch chaplain, who died in 1672, the year 
his book appeared, being a description of the island of Ceylon, 
of Malabar, and Choromandel. 

There is abundant evidence of the mission of Johannes 
Bacherus in 1688. Let us take first the English records. 
Porto Novo reports to Fort St. George on November 27, 1687 
(Factory Records, No. 30), that the Dutch are keeping high 
festival for four days on account of a qcml (written order) freeing 
them from customs duty for four years, and thenceforth to pay 
only half duties throughout the Gulkandah kingdom. We 
must remember that Gulkandah had just been absorbed into the 
Mogul empire. Fort St. George rejoins, December 9, 1687, 
that it understands not the festival, as the Dutch were already 
free of customs in Gulkandah; there must be something else 
behind. On January 17, 1688 (letter to Surat), the English say 



JOHANNES BACHERUS SENT 


385 


they heard that the Mogul had ordered the Dutch to send up 
an ambassador, and was demanding sums of money for the 
confirmation of their former privileges. Again, on September 13, 
1688, they write that the Dutch Commissary-General (? Van 
Reede)^ at Pulicat (close to Madras) was preparing a great 
^Pishkas* for the Mogul, said to be worth 40,000 pagodas — 
elephants, horses, palkis, plate, jewels, etc. ‘ Heer John 
Vakeerus ’ (Bacherus), the second in council, was to deliver it. 
Daniel Chardin, brother of the traveller, wrote from Bhagnagar 
(Haidarabad) on February 11-21, 1687-8, saying that the Mogul 
had gone on to Bijapur, and that the Dutch had interviewed 
Ruhullah l^an, the new governor. D. Chardin on February 22 
wrote again that the Dutch had not obtained their fanndn. On 
August 28, 1688, the Fort St. George authorities again speak 
of Hendrik van Reede, Dutch Commissary-General, proposing 
to send Johannes Bacherus to the Mogul from Pulicat with a 
very large present. It was said the Dutch were trying to get 
the English excluded from the Mogul’s dominions by offering a 
payment of 8 lakhs of rupees a year. In a letter to the Court 
of Directors (Original Correspondence 5658) of January, i68g, 
it is stated that the Dutch envoy had started. On July 12 and 
20, i68g, they speak of the * late ’ embassy, and assert that it 
met with no success, their ‘present’ being plundered by the 
Mahrattahs. Pulicat Fort, held by the Dutch, was to be re- 
duced to a mere factory (Fort St. George to Court, February i, 
i6go, Original Correspondence No. 56g8). 

Thus far from the India Office records ; we will now turn to 
the Dutch records at the Hague. The instructions, forty-three 
pages in extent, were issued by Hendrik van Reede to Johannes 
Bacherus from Pulicat on September 22, 1688. Bacherus is 
described as the second on the Commission, then on a visit to 
the northern factories of Coromandel. On December 24, 1688, 
the envoy started from Masulipatam, and on January 26, i68g, 
van Reede reports to the Seventeen at Middleburg to that effect. 
We have a letter from the wazlr^ Asad Hban, of the 7th Zu,l 
Hijjah (September 20, i68g), the wdqi^ah entry in the Court 
official diary, loth Zu,l 5 ijjah (September 23), and a second 
letter from Asad Sian of the 26th Zu,l Hijjah (October g) ; then 
comes the fanndn, dated the 12th Muharram of the thirty- 
third year — iioi H. (October 24, i68g). There is the sub- 
sidiary order or Hasb-ul-iukm of the wazzr^ 27th Muharram, 

1 Hendrik Adriaan van Reede, of Drakensteyn, bom at Utrecht early in 1637. 
In 1690 made Commissary at SQrat, and Governor-General of Malabar Coast. 
He is the author of ‘Hortus Indica/ folio, 1678. He died at sea on December 15, 
1691, and was buried at Surat early in January,' 1692. D. Havart, * Op en 
Ondergang,' has a plate of the funeral procession. 

VOL. II. 


25 



386 


CONCESSIONS GRANTED TO DUTCH 


iioi H. (November 8, 1689), another order of November ii, 
and the dJwan’s (Bisharat lean’s) visi or executive order of the 
same date. 

The provisions of the fannan are as follows : After reciting 
the petition of the envoy for a confirmation of the grant and 
privileges accorded in writing by ‘Abdullah and Abu,l Hasan, 
the former rulers of Gulkandah, a renewed grant is made in 
the following detail. A gift is made of five villages, three at 
Pulicat (Ergam, Mansiewarom, Awieriwaka) and two at Masuli- 
patam (Pallicol, Contera). 

At PULIC.4T the following concessions are made in respect to 
the Dutch share in customs and their right to coin. On goods 
over a catidy^ in weight, liable to 4 t pOtgodas of duty, the county 
ofl&cials are to take 2f, and the Dutch Company pagodas; but 
goods liable to less than that amount, according to the 
Muta^addis’ (native officials’) weights, shall be divided, half to 
the emperor and half to the Dutch. 

At Eragam and Mansiewarom the division was to be : 

Customs of 4|- pagodas and over to pay three-fourths to 
the Mogul, one-fourth to the Dutch. 

Customs pagodas to pay ij pagodas to Dutch. 

Customs of less than pagodas to pay half to Mogul, half 
to Dutch. 

On cloth brought in from villages, when the bale contains 
20 pieces of 72 coUdos (cubits) each, sJ pagodas are to be paid, 
the king taking half and the Dutch half. If the goods are 
afterwards sold, the same tax shall be paid and divided as before. 
If goods so bought are liable to over 4 pagodas, the division 
gball be three-fourths to the king and one-fourth to the Dutch. 

Ground-rents on inhabited land to be equally divided. 

All dues on goods brought in ships from abroad to be equally 
divided. When the Dutch bring their own money to be coined, 
the mint tax, which is f per cent., shall be equally divided ; if 
the money is not theirs, the Dutch will only receive one-third 
of the dues. 

Masulipatam. — ^The Dutch Company are freed from certain 
dues : (i) Cabaram, a sort of ground-rent ; (2) Baatpoelerij, an 
imposition on exported goods ; and (3) MolKwidaal, road dues. 
Formerly, on every two ox-loads to IJaidarabad the freight 
was 4 pagodas (2 of which went to the governor) ; now 5 are 
demanded. A return to the old rate is asked. The emperor 
ordered that the Company must make the best terms it could 
with the carriers, but the governor’s 2 pagodas were remitted. 

^ Candy, a weight in use in South India roughly, 500 pounds (Yule, 155). 



PULICAT AND MASULIPATAM 


2S7 


Fort Palliacatta. — For a long time this had been the sole 
property of the Company, and no other Europeans had any 
share. Petty disputes were decided by the king’s officers and 
the employes of the Company ; those of more importance were 
referred to ‘Abdullah and Abu,l Hasan. The emperor orders 
the same practice to continue, but great and weighty causes 
must be sent to Haidarabad to be there decided by the 
emperor’s representative. 

For the villages of Gollepalem and Gondewarom close to 
Daatcherom the Company paid yearly, by way of lease, the sum 
of 150 pagodas. This was allowed to remain on the old footing. 

Narsapur. — Here there was a piece of land used for storing 
timber, and a smith’s shop, where various things required for 
ships were stored, and the workpeople who resorted there had 
been free of dues for a long time ; nor was anyone allowed to 
hinder others from settling there, the said people being, like the 
Narsapur dwellers, in the service of the Company. Yearly from 
each household 3 pagodas were collected. The demand is con- 
ceded by the emperor to the Dutch on the old footing. 

In the village Mansiewarom (subordinate to Masulipatam) 
forty households of washermen used to pay each 3 pagodas a 
year. There are now six families left. When the water rises 
they go to wash in Suguram (or Sury) village, and ought not to 
be hindered. The request is granted. 

Certain taxes or dues were remitted, viz. : 

1. A tax on coolies whose wages are paid by the merchants, 
provided they are permanently in the Company’s service. 

2. The tax of Callagads, or writers’ fees. 

3. Rahddr% or road tax, inland in going from Bimlipatnam 
to Siccacol. 

4. Rahddri on travellers from Eloer, Ragiemandree, Daat- 
cheram, Palicol, and Nagelwance. 

5. Rahddn from Masulipatam and Paliacatta, going and 
coming. 

6. Tolls or other imposts upon any victuals for the Company’s 
own use, coming either by water or land. 

7. Tolls on all merchandise or wares sent out by the Company 
and brought in by it from abroad and here sold. 

8. Mint. — ^The charges of the Taksdl^ or Mint, on the coining, 
whether of gold or silver, together with the exchange on Pallia- 
cat and Chinapatnam (? Madras) pagodas, are remitted. 

g. On ghaza-am [^ghizd-i-dm \ — ^that is, grain and all such 
wares — ^the dealers had to pay the king, causing prices to rise. 
From all such dues the Company and their servants are 
exempted. 


25—2 



388 


RETIRING ALLOWANCES 


The farmcm bears the titles and attestations of Asad ^O^tn, 
the waztr. 

The correspondence is continued in twenty-four more letters, 
beginning with Laurens Pit and Council at Pulicat to the 
Seventeen at Middelburg (a long letter), dated January 6, 1690, 
and en^ng with the Governor-General’s letter from Batavia to 
the same body, dated March 26, 1691. 

There is also mention of the Bacherus embassy in D. Havart, 
‘ Op en Ondergang van Coromandel ’ (1693), Part IL, 165. 

It is not difficult to have a valid JarmWn, but if the officials 
are not your friends, it serves you very little. This is why those 
who want to carry out their business must always make some 
presents to these men, a custom followed throughout India. 
For I have always noted that in order to succeed well, you 
must gain the goodwill of the employes, for they do and undo 
everj-thing with their masters, as to them seems fit. 

The figure opposite is a representation of the seal with which 
the Mogul attests all the farmans and the grants that he accords. 
Usually the seal is stamped in ink, and below it the king, 
dipping his hand into a red liquid, impresses its shape upon the 
document to be dispatched.’^ This serves as a still more 
authentic confirmation of the favour or gift that he makes. 
This ceremony is only employed in matters of importance, for 
in other cases they use another small seal, with which letters 
and dispatches are sealed [33] . 

After this digression, which I have thought necessary to 
make to display the bad feiith of the Moguls and their officials, 
and the very little reliance to be placed upon their word, I go 
on with the relation I began about the prince and his conduct 
in paying his army, et cetera. 

When any general or great commander quits the service, 
either from old age or any other reason, the king as a favour 
continues always to pay to him an allowance for his support. 
But there is no fixed rule. To some less, to some more, is 

^ For an instance of the use of the panjah, or impressed palm of the hand, see 
Tod. ‘ Annals of Rajasthan ’ (Calcutta reprint, 1894), vol. i., p. 361, Aurangzeb’s 
treaty with the Rana, 1680. In the Venice Codex XLIV. (Zanetti) there is 
inserted at foL 419, below the seal, an imprint of a hand of reddish colour ; it is 
a very small hand, and represents, I suppose, that of Aurangzeb. 



THE IMPERIAL SEAL 


389 


assigned, according to the king’s inclination towards them. 
For example, Shaistah Qian had two brothers, one called 
Bamenear (Bahman-yar)^ and the other Faracfal (? Farru^-fal). 
The first was incapacitated by hernia, and the other declined 
to serve, being very misshapen. The king allowed to these 
gentlemen one hundred thousand rupees. Yet to the son of 



Ja'far Khan, called Namdar Khan,^ who declined service upon 
the death of his father, Ja'far Khan, because he considered the 

1 I'tiqad XTia n. MirzS Bahman-ySr (‘ Ma,a^r-ul-Umaxa,’ L 232), died 1082 H. 
(1671-72). The other brother I cannot trace. 

® NimdSr TTha n. eldest son of Jamdat-ul-MuIk, Ja'fer Khan (*M.-nl-U.,' 
iiL 830). On p. 833, line i, we read: ‘In the seventeenth year {1673-74) he fell 
into disgrace, was removed from his maitfei, and given 40,000 rupees a year. 
He retired to Cbga^.’ 














390 


PAYMENT OF QUEENS* SERVANTS 


post offered him was above [query read ‘beneath’] him, he 
gave no more than ten thousand rupees. The reason was that 
Namdar l^an was the son of one of Ja‘far Khan’s wives, named 
Farsanah Begam,^ who had been the wife (I should say the 
mistress) of Shahjahan, as I have stated in my First Part 
(L 129). They even said that he was son of that prince ; as 
for myself, I have no doubt about it, for he was very like Prince 
Dara. 

This gentleman (Namdar iO^an) was a great friend of mine, 
and as I knew him intimately, I may say that his qualities and 
his actions were altogether those of royalty; he was also a 
great soldier. But all that did not prevent the king, when this 
great man fell ill of a cancer which formed in his throat, from 
sending his physicians to cure him, and forbidding anyone else 
to approach him, of which he died in the year 1678.^ 

The soldiers, eunuchs, and servants of the queens and 
princesses are more regularly paid, and do not endure so much 
as the other soldiers. They never go on active service unless 
the king and the princes of the blood royal are going. But, 
since on those occasions the wives, daughters, and concubines 
accompany them, these troops also follow the campaign. 
These ladies travel generally in the rear of the army, riding on 
the greatest elephants, which are followed by others bearing 
the gold coin and precious stones that these princes carry also 
with them, to be made use of in case of disgrace or misfortune. 
They say that since Taimur-i-Iang, in all the generations of the 
Moguls, no queen has been made a prisoner in war, except 
Humayun’s queen, who was taken by Sher Shah, the Pathan ; 
and even that prince sent her back to the king as far as Persia, 
where he had gone, which I have already mentioned, if I 
mistake not, in my First Part (I. 70). 

Most of the horses used by the Mogul come from the regions 
of Balkh, Bu^ara, and Kabul. Thence come every year more 
than one hundred [34] thousand, and on them the king makes 
a great profit by the duty he imposes. At the crossing of the 

^ FarzanaJht Begam, sister of Mumtaz Maljal, the wife of Shahjahan (*Ma,asir- 
ul-Umara,* iii. 830). 

The native writers do not mention the year of his death. 



shAh ^alam deceives his father 


391 


Indus alone a payment of twenty-five per cent, on their value 
is made. The best are chosen for the king’s service, the usual 
number taken being twelve thousand. Among them are some 
selected for his own stable, and the others he uses as presents 
to the great lords of his court. There also come from those 
regions many camels loaded with fruit, such as melons, pears, 
seedless pomegranates, raisins, and other dried fruits. 

The horses are called TurkI ; they are courageous in war, can 
stand much fatigue, and never forsake their masters unto death. 

The policy of the present Mogul is so fine and so delicate 
as to surpass that of all his predecessors; and he has had 
peculiarly hard work to maintain himself on the throne up to 
this time against the wish and the will of several persons. 
First, there are his children, upon whom he always keeps a 
vigilant eye, so that they may commit no treason similar to that 
he did to his father. It is for this reason that formerly, besides 
the spies he kept to report all that wsls passing, he used at night 
to go in person incognito into the house of Shah ‘Alam to spy 
out what w’as going on there. 

The prince, on the other hand, detected the movements and 
ruses of his father, and set his own wits to work. He had 
cunning spies to inform him of all he (Aurangzeb) projected. 
One night it happened, when there was very bright moonlight, 
the prince was enjoying himself with some ladies who were 
his mistresses : they came and warned him that the king, his 
father, was coming to visit him. As soon as he heard this 
news he promptly rose, and having hidden the ladies in different 
places, he went into a room and set to work reading the Quran 
aloud, as is the custom. Aurangzeb came in, and finding Shah 
^Alam thus occupied, said to him that what he was engaged in 
did not suit the season, which invited rather to delectation than 
the reading of the Quran. 

Shah ‘Alam replied that what he read appeared to him more 
lovely than the moon, and afforded him more delight than the 
light of the sun. The father was charmed at this answer, and 
as a mark of his satisfaction thereat he augmented the prince’s 
allowance, and gave him more frequent tokens of the esteem in 
which he held such virtue. 



393 SHAH ‘ALAhPS CHARACTER 

Several times Shah ‘Alam’s fevourites, seeing the mann er in 
which his father acted, coming and going just as he pleased, 
asked him (Shah ‘Alam) to allow them to kill him (Aurangzeb). 
To incite him to this, they brought up the example of the king, 
who had acted thus towards his own father and brother. They 
said that after the death of the old fellow he could [35] easily 
crown himself as king. But the prince would never give his 
consent, sa3dng that if he did so, his children would one day 
treat him the same, and thus this pernicious custom would be 
established in the family from generation to generation. This 
is why he hoped that God would never allow him to imi tg t p 
his father in that respect ; and, what was more, he was still a 
young man. 

When this prince reached the age of twenty-five, he knew 
quite well he was endued with little courage, and this forced 
him into attempting to acquire the magical arts, in order to 
guide himself thereby in case of necessity, just as his father had 
done when he was a prince. To accomplish this design he 
busied himself with the study of books of magic. But in a short 
time this occupation destroyed his mind, which his father dis- 
covered without knowing the real cause. He believed this 
arose from illness, so came to visit him. No sooner had he 
entered than his son seized him by the beard and demanded in 
a fury who he was, and why he entered his house. Seeing the 
prince in this condition, the king was greatly concerned, the 
more so that he (his son) had alwa}^ been very submissive, and 
he had tenderly loved him. Plunged into affliction, he placed 
him in charge of his own physicians, conjuring them to use 
their best efforts on his behalf. The gentlemen met in con- 
sultation, and after discussing the symptoms, concluded that 
the evil arose from blood to the head. As a remedy, they bled 
and purged, whereby he recovered his senses. Having thus by 
sad experience learnt that such studies would be his destruc- 
tion, he thought no more about them, and forsook them 
entirely. 

Adopting another style of life, he gave himself up to pleasure, 
but only in secret, his occupation being drinking and other 
pastimes, according to the whim of the moment. His father 



SHAH ^ALAM A FREE LIVER 


393 


heard nothing of all that, for the son knew his father’s disposi- 
tion, and his love of seeing his children imitate his feigned 
strictness. Thus, to gain his approval the prince displayed as 
many signs of devoutness as ever he could. As he perceived 
that humility was also much to the taste of the old fellow, he 
showed the greatest contempt for the riches of this world. He 
ordered his bowls and dishes to be made of wood, and caused 
it to be noised abroad that he ate out of these. Further, the 
trappings of the horse he rode were of plain leather, devoid of 
all ornaments, although those of his retinue were not of that 
simple style. 

As for myself, I knew quite the contrary of all this ; and in 
his palace he led a jolly life of it, drinking and eating out of 
dishes and cups of gold. Above all, as to the drink, that I 
know to be exact, for he had charged me with procuring good 
wines of Persia and Europe. These I caused to be brought 
from Surat, and frequently, when he was out of them, he sent 
to my house for some, for he had more trust in me than in his 
Mahomedans. One day when he was elated I heard him say 
that despicable was that king who did not eat out of vessels of 
emerald. 

His children were just as great hypocrites as he was, and all 
to propitiate their grandfather. For in secret they led the 
same life as their father. One day, as it happened [36], one of 
the spies reported to the king that he had seen a bottle of wine 
being taken into the house of Sultan Mu*izz-ud-dln. It was 
one that he had sent to me for. Upon this the old fellow made 
a long discourse to Shah ^Alarn and Sultan Mu‘izz-ud-din. 
The latter said as his excuse that the wine was for some medicine 
to be given to a sick lady; while Shah ^Alam made it appear 
that he had no part in the matter. In order better to persuade 
and satisfy the king, he caused the uterine brother of his son 
[query read ‘ foster-brother ’] to be ejected from his palace as 
the man who had sent the wine; while I was thereby saved 
from the penalty which would otherwise have fallen on me had 
they known that the wine came from me. 

The Prince A'zam Shah, or A‘zam-tara, also drank wine ; but 
it was not in concealment like the others. On the contrary. 



394 


AMBITIONS OF KING^S SONS 


frequently he even caused scenes while drunk, without paying 
any heed to his father. The latter was much chagrined at such 
conduct, but as he loved this son, he overlooked his faults. 
One day the prince was on his way to court in a boat ; he 
asked the rowers how many days it would take them to reach 
Bengal in that boat. The eunuch seated behind him signed to 
them to hold their tongues, so that they answered not a word. 
But directly they had reached the court, the eunuch intimated 
to the king that the prince had put such a question. No sooner 
had he entered the palace than he was arrested and locked up, 
and there he remained for a whole year, getting no wine to 
drink. But having been married to Jam Begam, daughter of 
Dara, he was released. 

From what is above stated, it will be seen that these princes 
are under surveillance, and if any servant of the king, or the 
princes themselves, should dare to open his mouth to make 
even the slightest objection, he would be forthwith exiled from 
court and turned out of the service. This is a sufficiently heavy 
punishment to induce them to hold their tongue, for they have 
no other means of gaining a living. 

Aurangzeb could not ignore the fact that each of his children 
wanted to become king and made pretensions to the crown. 
But one day, out of curiosity, he asked them if they wanted 
to reign. Shah ‘Alam replied that he would be glad enough to 
be king should His Majesty ever wish for repose and should 
cede the kingdom to him, and that to him it seemed only just 
that the eldest son should succeed — still more so when he was 
a good man, and endowed with habits and qualities which should 
rather lead him to, than exclude him from, the throne. In spite 
of this, it was his bounden duty to remain quiet during the life 
and good health of His Majesty. He meant to be understood 
as intending on his father’s death to do his best to succeed him. 
A‘zam-tara stated that he was born to be a king, even though 
he had an elder brother, for (said he) my father and my mother 
are both Mahomedans, and both of royal blood. 

Akbar’s reply was that his birth took place at a propitious 
hour and moment. For was it not then that had begun the 
happiness and good fortune which had ever since followed in 



THE KING^S ATTITUDE TO HIS SOXS 


395 


his (Aurangzeb’s) train ? Was it not in that very year that he 
had won the victory over Rajah Jaswant Singh and Qasim 
Khan, and had also defeated Prince Dara?^ [37] Briefly he 
had had many other lucky advantages that favouring Fortune 
had conferred on him ; and for all these reasons he believed 
that the crown was his by right. 

Kam Ba]^sh answered that, without a doubt, the kingdom 
was his, as of right, because, said he, ‘ I am the son of a king, 
w^hile the others are only sons of a prince.’ Then, lifting his 
eyes to heaven, he added, ‘ But be it as God wills !’ This last 
reason was extremely pleasing to the king, and on this account 
he esteemed this son more than ever, and raised his previous 
income. All the same, he did not allow his feelings to appear, 
but kept them hidden in his heart. Then he said, as a general 
answer to them all, that their claims were still in the remote 
future; for the calculators had assured him that he was to 
reign one hundred and twenty years, and to their findings he 
accorded implicit faith. Nevertheless, the cunning monarch 
only said this in order to see if any one of the sons would say 
anything more, betraying any passion or grief at what he had 
said. But no one opened his mouth : the example of the im- 
prisonment and death of Sultan Muhammad was more than 
enough to keep them within the limits of humility and of filial 
and prudent obedience. 

Aurangzeb had more confidence in Shah ‘Alam than in any 
of the others, for he knew him down to the ground, and had 
tested his not having enough boldness to try rebellion. When 
this prince was very young, he w^as performing the ofiices of 
nature, when a young rat passed in front of him. He was 
so frightened that he came out shouting, holding up his 
drawers with his hands. The eunuchs present thought at first 
that he had been bitten by a snake. His father, on being told 
what had happened, exclaimed that it was an astonishing thing 
that in the race of Taimur-i-lang should be born a prince 
who was such a poltroon. He added that the courage in 

^ Akbar was born on the 12th Zu,l Hijjab, 1067 H. (September 22, 1657, N.S.). 
The battle with Jaswant Singh, near Ujjain, was fought in Rajab, 1068 (April, 
1658) (Elphinstone, 521). The first defeat of Dara was on June 8, 165S, 



396 MU^IZZ-UD-DlN AND HIS FATHER 

which he was lacking was in excess in his brother, Sultan 
Muhammad.^ 

In spite of all this, however, as Aurangzeb himself counter- 
feited the bigot, he imagined that Shah ‘Alam was counter- 
feiting the coward. With the idea of putting him to the proof, 
he said to him when he was somewhat older that the astrolo- 
gers predicted that he would rebel. At those words the prince, 
all in a tremble, drew his sword and flung it at his father’s 
feet, saying he would rather have his head cut off than that he 
should ever do such a thing. Having noticed his emotion at 
hearing such a remark, his father embraced him, restored his 
sword, and bound it on him, saying that he never expected any 
such action on his part. 

The distrust among these princes is so acute that the father 
does not trust the son, nor the son his father. Here is an 
instance : Sultan Mu‘izz-ud-din, eldest son of Shah ‘Alam, was 
graciously pleased to act as intermediary, and to intercede for 
me with his father, to get me back into his service, as I have 
related more at length in my account of Goa, contained in my 
Second Part ( 11 . 219). The father, without any other reason, 
commanded me not to go to the court of the said Sultan, giving 
him orders at the same time not to send for me. Let him, 
Shah *Alam said, employ his own doctors and not me. Upon 
this subject they had some words, and thereupon separated. 
Some time afterwards Sultan Mu*izz-ud-din feigned the invalid, 
and no longer went to the court of his father. As soon as the 
latter heard of the illness, he sent him his Persian physicians, 
and these men reported that he was not in the least unwell. 
To give them the lie and show that he required my treatment, 
he made one of his women servants suck a place on his neck, 
and thereby raised a blue mark. On learning that he was 
suffering from this blue mark, Shah ^Alam, without knowing 
the cause of it, had the idea that he required bleeding. So he 
ordered me to see him at his residence, and with a view to 
satisfying his son, told me to go whenever he sent for me, and 
in this manner they made it up and were at peace. 

^ A'zam Shai was accustomed to call his brother *the Ja?iy/a*--that is, one 
who is the very incarnation of timidity (Catrou, 4to. edition, 1715, p. 200). 




XXIII. Rajah Jaswant Singh, Rathor, of Jodhpur. 





A GIRL SUCCESSFULLY CURED 


397 


Maybe astonishment will be expressed at all the details I 
give of this court, but just to afford some satisfaction to my 
readers, I will tell a little story showing how I came to a 
knowledge of these things. In the palace was a female servant 
called Dil-jo, who acted as valet-de-chambre to Shah ‘Alam. 
This girl fell ill, and no one could diagnose her complaint, nor 
its source. She was quite young, but suffered from insomnia, 
and from time to time frightful things overtook her, even to 
biting her own body. After some remedies had been adminis- 
tered which did her no good, I was instructed to treat her. 
I fathomed at once the origin of the disease, and I said to the 
prince that I could not cure her, but I would instruct them as 
to a remedy they might give her, by means of which I hoped 
that her health would be re-established. 

Subsequently I stated the remedy, which was nothing more 
than to counsel them to get her married. That was (I added) 
what I believed to be the healing medicine for her malady. 
They believed me, and forthwith married her off to a slave of 
the prince’s household. Two months afterwards they sent for 
her to the palace, just to see if there was any change in her. 
They noticed that her colour had returned, that she enjoyed 
perfect health, and, in fact, she was with child. The other 
women servants on seeing her longed for their fellow-servant’s 
disease in order to obtain the same remedy. To succeed in 
this design, they let me know that they would pretend to be ill, 
and I must be so good as to ordain the same medicine to be 
given to them as had been given to Dil-jo. I carried- out this 
commission to the best of my power, and thus several were 
married, according to their wish. These people were subse- 
quently very grateful for the kindness I had done them, and 
gave me proof of it from time to time. Thus it is through 
them that I have been informed of many particulars as to what 
went on in the court of this prince [39]. 

Perhaps it will not be found altogether devoid of utility if I 
impart to my readers several events that happened to me, 
which are proof of the prince’s kindness and of the friendship 
he bore me. Seeing that I was not married, he inquired from 
me, through the first princess in his mai^al (seraglio), why I did 



398 


MANUCCI REFUSES TO MARRY 


not take a wife. I replied that I found none of my standing 
that took my fancy. This lady and her husband were both 
desirous to get me married so as to retain me, and hinder my 
leaving Hindustan and his court. She said to me that she 
would send for all the daughters of Christians, whether 
Europeans or Armenians, and I had only to choose the one I 
liked best. She would see that I obtained the girl, would 
give her away in marriage herself, and provide all the expenses 
necessary on such an occasion, adding a number of other 
promises. I thanked her, and made her understand how 
grateful I was for all her favours ; but, being a man of family, 
it was not correct for me to accept a bride such as she pro- 
posed for me. To that she replied by a great many things, 
among others that Mahomedans took anybody without regard 
to their birth. Although a Christian could never have preten- 
sions to such an honour, yet if I would agree she would have 
all her maids of honour brought before me, and I had only to 
select the one I most liked, and she should be given to me as 
wife, nothing remaining but to carry her away to my dwelling. 

Being weary of all this woman’s talk, I gave an off-hand 
answer that I was incapacitated for marriage. But on she 
went, and, with a number of other remarks, refuted me by 
saying that my bearing and complexion showed the falsity of 
what I told her. Finally, after all this discourse, she ordered 
me to put my hand inside the curtains of the bed to feel her 
pulse ; for this is the way one has to deal with these ladies, as 
I have said (III. 14, 15). I noted that the arm was thick, 
muscular, and hairy, and by these signs I knew at once it was 
a man’s arm, and it turned out to be Shah ‘Alam himself. 
Without delay I rose, and said that the arm I had touched was 
a man’s, not a woman’s, and it could be none other than that 
of the King of the World. At these words the prince burst 
out laughing, and told me I knew how to distinguish the 
difference between a man and a woman.^ 

If the prince intended in this interview to show his esteem 

^ For a parallel instance of testing a physician’s discernment, see Fryer, 
edition 1873, p. 346. The hand of a healthy slave girl was put out to him 
instead of the patient’s. 



ATTEMPTS ON HIS VIRTUE 


399 


for me, it maj* be added from the way of it that he also meant 
to put me to the test. It is also the custom to probe the 
physicians by such trickeries, in order to be assured of their 
ability and of their recognition of diseases. Another adventure 
took place with the princess which led to the same result. 
She made out she was ill, and caused to be sent to me a vessel 
full of urine with an inquiry whether I could recognise [40] 
from it the disease she was suffering from. Seeing that the 
liquid was green, and seemed to have some drug mixed with it, 
I set my imagination to work, and answered with a smile that 
the urine came from a person who had eaten largely of green 
stuff the preceding night. As soon as I pronounced these 
words there was a great outburst of laughter behind the 
curtains of the bed, and they said I was a great doctor. In 
the end they informed me it was the urine of a cow. 

Wishing to retain me and gain me over entirely to his 
interest, the prince thought that women would be a good 
vehicle to secure his object ; for it is very common for men to 
be destroyed by this snare. Here is how he set to work. He 
asked me if I knew there was a European in his palace. I said 
I did not. Instantly, while we were speaking, there came out 
of a room a very pretty girl, dressed as a man in European 
style, with a gold-mounted sword at her side. As soon as she 
saw m,e she lifted her hat and saluted me. I was conscious at 
once that it was the prince who had put all this in play to 
amuse himself, and see if he could gain me over. But I feigned 
the ignoramus, and as if I had not noticed an3dhing, returned 
the bow and proffered some compliments. Speaking French, 
I went up to her to kiss her, when at once she turned her 
back on me and fled. I ran after her as if wishing to embrace 
her ; but she ran faster than I did. However, I did my utmost 
to overtake her. Laughing, the prince cried out to me. At 
his voice I came back with slow steps close to him, much put 
out at not having succeeded in embracing the young person. 

When I had come close, he asked me what I had wanted to 
do. I replied boldly that I wanted to embrace and kiss the 
would-be young man. He assumed to be astonished at such 
a piece of audacity, then took to smiling at it ever so long, as 



400 


HAREM CONSULTATIONS 


did all the princesses. Afterwards he told me that the Farangl 
I had seen was not a man, but a woman, and if I would have 
her, he would give her to me, and she could serve to carry my 
medicines into the I answered, with a serious air, that 

she was no use for that, and medicines administered by a 
woman’s hand produced no effect. The prince for a long time 
joked with the princesses over what I had said. This is the 
greatest amusement he has. Ail other Mahomedans also paiss 
the greater part of their time among their women. This is so 
much the case that through them much important business at 
court is transacted. For my part, I have done a great deal 
thus, principally through the first princess. 

I have said already (III. i6) that it is the custom in the 
royal household, when a physician is called within the maJial, 
for the eunuch to cover his head with a cloth, which hangs 
down to his waist. They then conduct him to the patient’s 
room, and he is taken out in the same manner. The first time 
that [41] I was led through the palace I was fitted out in the 
above fashion, but, by premeditation, I walked as slowly as I 
could, in spite of the urging of my guides, the eunuchs. The 
prince, having seen this, ordered them to uncover me, and that 
in future I was to be allowed to come in and go out without 
being covered. He said that the minds of Christians were not 
filthy like those of Mahomedans. 

This prince held me in such affection that he granted me 
permission to enter the Ghusul-Jehamh. which is a secret place 
where the second audience is given and the council sits. Into 
it only the principal lords and officers of the court enter. If 
anyone fails to attend, whether by accident or otherwise, he 
cannot enter any more without a fresh permission. To obtain 
this renewal he must make some present to the prince, at the 
very least one gold and nine silver coins ; but with respect to 
me, I had liberty to enter and come out without an34:hing of 
that sort. As the prince was in a firight that I would quit his 
service, he sought from time to time means of obliging me, and 
paid me all the honours such as I have reported. However, 
finding he could not capture me through women, he resolved 
to have a fidendly talk with me on religion. 



MANUCCI AND SHAH 'ALAM 


401 


Ha\ing sent for me, he begged me not to take it amiss if he 
gave me a warning; his religion forced it upon him, and to 
discharge his conscience he was obliged to give it thrice. 
Following on this, he said it was his intention to elevate me to 
the rank of a noble at his court; but before this could be I 
must adopt his religion, which was assuredly the best, and 
through it I would gain salvation. The moment he had finished 
his discourse I made a very low bow, and said I knew very 
well what was contained in the Quran, also what the Gospel 
imposed on me. There I had learnt that without baptism no 
one could enter the kingdom of heaven, and to gain it I was 
ready to spend and give up my life. 

Seeing me so determined, he changed the subject, and he 
ordered me to send at once to procure him some crystal vessels 
for drinking water from. I sent off a man to Bombay to bring 
some. This order he executed — nay, those he brought were 
very handsome. These I presented to the prince. He seemed 
to be astonished to see so many crystals at once — more than he 
had ever seen in all his life — for he imagined them to be of rock- 
crystal, which is extremely costly in the Mogul country. This 
is the reason of his asking me what the whole might be worth. 
Quite happy, I answered him that it was a present from me, 
and that Doctor Nicolas stated no prices to kings. He was so 
satisfied with this reply that, coming to me, he patted me on 
the shoulders, and said, should God ever be gracious and make 
him king, he would remember my generosity. At the same 
time he ordered them to give me a valuable set of robes and a 
very nice horse. 

I must here make the remark that, when these kings and 
princes give [42] audience, they display all imaginable gravity 
and majesty, in order to inspire fear in everybody; but in their 
ma^al and in private they are lowly as infants. This I have 
experienced several times, they going so far as to play with me 
with all possible familiarity. It is true that it may be said that 
all these petty stories referring to me are of no great value to 
the public, but I thought a charitable reader would easily 
pardon me this small satisfaction which I have ventured to 
give myself. Moreover, if anyone were about to travel in these 

VOL. n. 26 



402 


BHAO SINGH, HApA 


far-off places, it may be that in some conjuncture these tales of 
my humble adventures will not be entirely useless to him. 

As the entire thoughts of these princes are turned in the 
direction of the throne, they search out carefully any means of 
conferring favours on the most powerful men, in the hope of 
having them on their side. Shah ‘Alam had usually with him 
a Hindu prince called Bau Sing (Bhao Singh),^ leader of twelve 
thousand horsemen and a vassal of the king. He served under 
the orders of Shah ‘Alam. Noticing that he had ceased to 
come to court, being unwell, the prince sent me to visit him on 
his behalf, and to offer my services. This was merely to oblige 
him, and gain him to his side should any occasion present itself. 

The rajah was already old, and was suffering from his lungs. 
The prince, however, directed me to observe him and reckon 
how long he might yet live. Bhao Singh received my visit 
but refused my services, and told me if I gave him any medicines 
he would put them with the rest I saw there. He had a whole 
roomful. God might do with him according to His pleasure, 
but he would not take the medicines, beyond looking at them. 
All this care was because he was afraid of being poisoned. 
This fear was increased by the example he had in Rajah Jai 
Singh and several others, to whom such a fate had happened. 
I must say the prince never had designs of that sort, and all 
he did was intended to oblige. I may add that, during all the 
time I had the honour to serve him, he never suggested em- 
ploying me for such a purpose. 

Still, he made a trial as to whether I was of a nature that 
would carry out such devices. This I discovered in the course 
of time. For example, he sent to me some unknown persons 
who offered me large sums to bring to their death other 
patients that I was treating. Others asked me to sell them 
poison, but no one ever got me to accede to such a demand. 
Another stratagem was also made use of to test me, and 
attempt to find me out in a fault. This was the sending to 
my house of a young and very pretty girl in charge of an old 

^ For Bhao Singh, Hada, of Bondi, see the * Ma,asir-ul-Umara,* ii. 305, where 
it is said he was long at Aurangabad, and was very friendly with Shah ‘Alam. 
He died in 1088 H. (March, 1677— February, 1678). 



WOMEN TEMPT MANUCCI 


403 


woman on the pretext that the young beauty was ailing. She 
was barely eighteen, and I found out from her pulse that she 
was the very reverse of indisposed. I asked her if she suffered 
from any pain, which could not be detected from the pulse. 
As I interrogated her, the old woman, making believe that she 
was a simpleton, left us and took a turn in the garden. The 
young girl seemed at once to grow very free with me, as well 
by word as by deed. She told me she longed for my friendship, 
while hers would not be useless to me. She could secure me 
many advantages. As soon as I heard her talk I was disgusted, 
and, quitting her, I came out and shouted [43] to the old dame 
to take her away. I then grew angry, and, calling my men, 
ordered them both to be ejected. 

Two months afterwards there came another still more 
lovely; but she was alone, and in a palanquin. Under the 
same pretence of illness she told me she came from a great 
distance to obtain a cure. She entered my house wrapped in 
a shroud, but on nearing me she uncovered, and throwing 
herself at my feet, implored me to keep her in my house; 
for, being a stranger, she knew not where to turn. Her 
prayer was repeated several times. I noticed she had on her 
several jewels of great value, and her clothes were those of a 
person of quality, so fine that her skin showed through. All 
this troubled me, and I fancied that it all might be intended to 
betray me. Still more did I think so, for the same thing had 
happened to others ; and as I had no intention of marrying, it 
did not suit my views to get entangled. 

With the object, then, of getting her away, I expressed my 
sympathy, and by pleasant words sent her off. Some time 
afterwards I was warned that this was one of Shah ‘Alam’s 
tricks, only resorted to in the hope that she would take my 
fancy — that I should have an affair with her, and by this means 
he would obtain an opening for compelling my continuance in 
Hindustan, with a change in my religion, or else the loss of my 
life, as has happened to many who have lost their souls for a 
woman’s love. Only a few years ago two Capuchins, or rather 
Portuguese, in the town of Isfahan fell into this sad soul- 
destro3dng misfortune. One of them was prior of the convent, 

a6 — 2 



404 


CHRISTIAN PHYSICIANS 


and both were forced to become Mahomedans through gimilgf 
events. Afterwards, under the pretext that they were of thgt 
religion, they robbed a merchant of their own nation. God 
forgive those who send out characters like this to be 
missionaries. 

The kings and princes delight in showing themselves to be 
just, and when taking cognisance of important business, they 
endeavour to hold the balance even. Since I was in Shah 
Alam’s service in the capacity of physician, I was an object of 
envy to the other physicians, the Persians, who sought means 
to ruin me. It chanced that a brother-in-law of the prince, 
named Mirza Sulaiman Beg, fell ill from a fullness of blood. 
The prince directed his chief Persian physicians, named Aguins 
{Hakims), Moquins (Muqlm[?]), and Mosencan (Muhsin Khan), 
to prescribe for him. They failed in curing him, and instead 
of bleeding him and cooling him down, they gave him hot 
remedies. They treated him in such a way that in a few days 
he was in the throes of death. When he was in this state, one 
of his brothers, named Mirza Mahomed Moquim (M uhammad 
Muqlm), took me to the patient’s house, hoping I might help 
him. I saw at once there was nothing more to be done. On 
the prince hearing the opinion I had expressed about his 
brother-in-law, he asked his physicians the reason he had &llen 
into this condition. They had the ill-will to say that I was the 
cause. To find out the truth Shah ‘Alam sent the nd^r 
Daulat, the cnief eunuch of his palace. This man, on his 
return, reported that the patient complained that the said 
ph3^icians had killed him, whereas, had the Doctor Nicolas only 
treated him, he would not have lost his life. While sa3ung 
these words the poor [44] man expired. But the testimony he 
had given for me conferred much credit upon me at the court, 
and gained me the esteem of everybody. 

After a time it came to pass that Mirza Muhammad Muqlm, 
brother of the deceased, of whom I have just spoken, went out 
of his mind. In an access of his madness he slew his father-in- 
law and some servants, and committed many other crimes. 
On hearing this the prince made him over to his physicians. 
Their report was that such a man could never recover the 



ARE GIVEN THE HOPELESS CASES 


405 


senses that he had lost. To demonstrate the force of their 
opinion, they cited as proof a passage in the Quran which says 
that for madness there is no cure. 

Shah ‘Alam heard this sad decision pronounced, and at once 
ordered the patient to be placed in my care, as he believed I 
should find a remedy. I know not whether this was actually 
because he thought me cleverer than the others, or because I 
was a Christian. For I had often noticed that many patients 
were made over to me when their health was in a desperate 
state, because they had taken it into their heads that the 
Saviour had invested me with some virtue or other. With the 
permission of God I cured this lord in a few days. To reward 
me for my trouble and for any expense I had incurred, he sent 
me a horse with very good paces, but made no other payment. 
The reason of such a meagre present was his miserliness. On 
my side I was much put out at getting so little for all the 
trouble I had taken. So, without any words of thanks, I sent 
the horse back, telling the groom who had brought him, when 
many men were present, that his master was in no state to 
send gifts before he had recovered his reason perfectly, and 
when he had recovered his health I would accept what he sent 
to me. He had hardly heard my message when he sent me the 
same horse with a thousand rupees and a very handsome set of 
robes. The truth is that he did not send me the present 
willingly, but felt constrained to do it for fear I might tell 
everyone he was still mad. By this means he would lose the 
office he held at the court, and also lose everyone’s confidence. 
Shah ‘Alam, when he learnt what had passed, was very satisfied 
at the cure, and still more with the answer I had given about 
the present. On his part he gave me a horse and a set of robes, 
adding many praises from his own lips, a habit common enough 
to these princes with physicians who succeed in curing patients 
they have made over to their care. 

Shah *Alam had directed the physician Muqlm to treat the 
wife of one of his captains called Mabarescan (Mubariz Sian), 
a man much beloved by that prince. This woman had been 
long in a decline, and was worn out by the quantity of blood 
she had lost. The doctor, finding that his remedies did her 



4o6 


MANUCCI BOASTS OF HIS CURES 


no good, lost all hope of her, and intimated to the prince that 
her life was in danger. On hearing this, Shah ‘Alam ordered 
me to take over the case. I applied myself to her relief with 
all possible care and diligence, and in a short time I had 
pulled her through. The physician was vexed in his mind, 
but outwardly he displayed much goodwill to me, just the 
contrary of his real feeling. I was not taken in, for I had 
known that pilgrim for many a long day [45]. 

The physician Muhsin Ehian treated a uterine (? foster) 
brother of the prince, whose name was Muhammad Riza. 
He had a severe fever, which made him delirious. The 
physician, not recognising his complaint, came to the con- 
clusion that there was no remedy, and gave him up. After 
that I was ordered to treat the man, and in a short time I 
put him on his legs again. There were other patients who 
had been given up in the same way by these gentlemen, 
but subsequently recovered their health under my hands, 
to those physicians* disgrace and loss of reputation. This 
is the reason they were no friends of mine ; still more so 
that, though their patients came to me, none of mine went 
to them. 

I also cured a noble from Bal^ called Fath-ullah !]^an, a 
title conferred on him by the king.^ He had afterwards married 
an extremely pretty woman, who had served up to him nothing 
but delicious plats until he had got ill and lost his appetite. He 
grew so thin that he looked like a skeleton, and no physician 
was able to do him any good. In the end Shah *Alam ordered 
me to take charge of him. I knew the constitution of these 
savages, so I gave him a comforting syrup, which could do him 
neither harm nor good. Then I ordered him to get his stews 
made of horseflesh, and by this means he was in a short time 
restored to his former rude strength. 

From this I acquired such renown that many men of this 
race came to me for treatment. But I got very little out of 
them, for they are very avaricious, and paid me highly in 
compliments only. Moreover, I had the reputation of being 

1 Possibly this is Muhammad Sadiq, ^osti, entitled Fathullah Khan Bahadur, 
‘Alamgir-shahi, who died shortly after 1707 (see ‘ Ma,asir-ul-Umara,’ iii. 40). 



ENCOUNTER WITH AN ANGRY SLA VE 


407 


charitable and of curing the poor for the love of God. Thus 
everybody flocked to my house. The Mahomedan and Hinda 
surgeons and physicians were very much provoked, for their 
interests were involved and they lost their practice. However, 
as they saw they could not injure me directly, they started the 
rumour that I drank the blood I drew from Mahomedans; 
that it was by this means I was made so brisk and energetic, 
and had such a high colour. All this was simply to hinder 
people coming to me to be treated. Everybody supposed that 
what they had published was true, and great repugnance was 
shown to be bled by me. Aware of what it was that troubled 
them, I told them to bring with them a china vessel, and 
all they had to do was to carry the blood home, and there 
bury it, for fear any dog or cat might consume it ; for if that 
happened, they would make noises exactly like those animals. 
By this measure I put an end to the false rumours, and they 
were no longer spoken of. 

One day, as I was attending to the treatment of some 
patients with all possible care, there comes into my house a 
king’s slave in a great rage and a great hurry, making much 
noise and throwing ever3^hing into confusion. This man, I 
imagine, had been sent by the other doctors, my enemies. I 
went up to him and begged him most civilly and even humbly 
to do me the favour of not upsetting the sick men. But he 
paid me no heed, and went on worse than before, and abused 
me. Seeing how insolent he was, I signed to my men to 
fall upon him without giving him time to draw, which they 
forthwith did. Our man, finding himself caught, flew into a 
fearful raige, and made more noise than ever. He said he 
would kill me and my men, and such other outrageous 
speeches. 

Thereupon I assumed [46] an aspect of mingled seventy 
and sadness, and said I had compassion for him, seeing he 
was suffering from blood to the head. His was a case for 
bloodletting. This remark made him more furious still, 
and he struggled to get firee. Without heat, I ordered them 
to undress him and then bind him ; and sending for a lancet, 
I made ready to bleed him. The slave, still angry, insisted 



4o8 


A DIFFICULT ACCOUCHEMENT 


that I must not bleed him; if I did, he would kill me. My 
answer was given in an amiable tone before every one, that 
it was absolutely necessary to bleed him, that the blood had 
got to his head, and assuredly if not treated he would be 
the death of someone. 

In the end, by force, I opened two veins in his arm. The 
fellow was still angry, and wanted me to close the veins ; but, 
ignoring what he said, I showed sorrow at beholding his 
blood, from time to time feeling his pulse and sa5dng that 
his blood was very vitiated. Then, raising my eyes, I looked 
in his face and asked if he did not already feel an alteration 
in his body. Finding that his menaces and loud talk were 
of no good to him, nobody listening to them, he adopted at 
last the mode of humble entreaty, and said in a feeble voice 
that God had brought him to my house to be cured of the 
ills he had suffered from through many years. He thanked 
me for my trouble. In spite of this, I did not trust him without 
precautions, so, closing the veins with two fingers, I put several 
new questions. Having replied very properly and civilly to 
these, just as he ought, I closed the veins and had his clothes 
and his weapons returned to him. After this he said a thousand 
flattering things about me, and never more passed in front 
of my door. When he met me at the king’s or elsewhere, 
he was very polite to me. I have always thought that he 
did this only from the fear he had that I might announce he 
was mad, or that I might drain all the blood from his 
body. 

The physician of whom I have spoken had a daughter, who 
became with child, and at the term she failed to be delivered 
and was in danger of death. Neither the father nor the other 
doctors could relieve her. They called in the cleverest and 
the most experienced in their profession. They even 
use of sorcerers. Yet neither the one set nor the other could 
do anything to relieve her. At last they were forced to come 
to me; embracing me and flattering me, the father begged 
me to succour his daughter if it were in my power. At once 
I informed him of a very easy treatment, which was to anoint 
her navel. This brought on her accouchement at once. He 



JEALOVSY OF NATIVE PHYSICIANS 


409 


afterwards asked me the secret, and I taught it to him, telling 
him at the same time that my religion commanded me to do 
good to everyone, even to my enemies ; how much more, then, 
to him (this by way of a compliment), to whom I was under 
an obligation ? 

It was by this application that he conducted the accouche- 
ment of Prince Kam BaHish’s wife, whereat the said prince 
and his father, Aurangzeb, were so grateful to him that they 
made him many presents of great value, without, however, 
his acknowledging in the very least the benefit I had secured 
to him. Instead of being thankful to me for it, he sought 
means to take my life. It was he who advised one of his 
friends called Mir ‘Adil, the criminal judge, to assert to the 
prince that I vomited forth curses on the prophet Mu^mmad, 
a crime for which the only penalty was death. But the prince 
knew me, and had a friendly feeling for me. He perceived 
plainly that all this was only jealousy, and he answered that 
the information was wrong, and that he himself would go 
surety for my innocence [47]. In this way my enemies gained 
only confusion from their accusation, and eight days afterwards 
Mir ‘Adil lost his office. But as I saw myself every day 
pursued and persecuted, and there were also other reasons, I 
resolved to quit the Mogul territory. 

It is not the practice among these princes for nobles to have 
converse with the fevourites and servants of other princes, for 
fear they may spin some web of treason. If it is ever the case, 
it is always with the permission of their master. It happened 
that Diler Kb an fell ill ; he was Sh5h ‘Alam’s enemy, yet he 
sent for me to prescribe for him. He knew of the prohibitions 
on the subject ; he sent word that if I went to his house, it 
would afford a good opening for him to become friends with the 
prince. He would be always ready to assist him with all the 
cavalry under his command on any and every occasion that 
might arise. 

As I knew the custom of the court and the scurvy tricks of 
the Mahomedans, I informed the prince of this affair, and 
pointed out to him that Diler i^Sn had sent for me. Hardly 
were the words out of my mouth when his face began to fliush. 



410 


POISONING AND ABORTION 


and he asked me very hastily whether I wanted to go there. 
To that I replied with a smiling face that, if I was anxious to 
go there, it was only to see the state he was in — whether he 
would live or die, so that I might make my report to His 
Highness. These words appeased him, and he forbade me to 
go. Diler S^an died, and it was found to be from poison 
administered by his son-in-law, Azil Can, and by one of the 
prince’s commanders.^ 

1 have stated that it is usual for Mogul princes to rear only 
four of their sons. Nevertheless, Shah ‘Alam, by a very special 
grace from the king, has five. It happened that one of his 
wives — the one he loved best — was with child. Her name was 
Nur-un-nissa Begam. Aware that Aurangzeb would never con- 
sent to let her offspring live, she took drugs to procure abortion. 
What she had taken produced no effect, and in her husband’s 
presence she asked me for drugs for that purpose. I betrayed 
my astonishment, and said to her that I felt persuaded His 
Highness kept me in his service for the preservation and not 
the destruction of human beings. Such a thing was no part 
of my business. They rejoined that they took on themselves 
the penalty. To that, after alleging further reasons to dissuade 
them from this evil course, among others what is written in 
the Gospel — that he who kills by the sword shall perish by the 
sword — and having held forth a long time on the subject, in the 
end I persuaded them to allow the innocent thing to live. The 
child lived some year and a half, when the unnatural monarch 
caused him to be secretly poisoned. If they did not procure 
an abortion, it was because they dreaded to hazard the life of 
the mother, as they wrote it.^ 

It was at about this time that Sultan Mu‘izz-ud-dln conceived 
a raging jealousy [48] against his wife, for reasons that I cannot 

^ Jalal, entitled Diler Khan, son of Darya Khan, Da.udzai, died in the 
twenty-seventh year of Aurangzeb, 1094 H,, between the ist Ramazan (August 24, 
1683) and the end of that year (December 18, 1683), at Aurangabad (see 
*M.-ul-U.,’ ii. 42, and * Tailkh-i-Muhammadi *). The former mentions (only to 
deny it) the rumour that Aurangzeb poisoned him. According to the * Ma,asir-i- 
‘Alamglri,’ he died about the 25th Ramazan, 1094 H. (September 17, 1683), when 
N. M. was in Goa, and could not have been in Aurangabad. 

2 The last words are obscure. 



MU‘IZZ-UD-DlN POISONS HIS WIFE 41 1 

state. She was the most lovely and perfectly formed creature ’ 
of all those in the malial. This is why he poisoned her with 
his own hands in some betel he gave her. The mother of the 
princess, seeing her in this sad state, begged me to aid her and 
give her medicine. This I did in secret, and she escaped ; but 
again he gave her poison on three occasions, while I continued 
to give her antidotes. Sultan Mu'izz-ud-dln, having learnt 
this, refused to see me. At last he found his opportunity. He 
was sent to govern at Burhlnpur, while his father, Shth ‘Alam, 
continued at Aurangtbad, and I with him. 

Ag ain he gave her poison. Then her mother wrote to Shah 
‘Alam that if he wanted her daughter to recover, he must send 
me in the greatest haste. The prince replied to this that there 
was no necessity to send me; they could employ the other 
doctors, who were then present with the princess. But before 
the reply arrived she was dead. After this tragic occurrence, 
Mu‘izz-ud-din became my friend again as formerly, and showed 
me much affection. 

There was also a concubine in the palace of Shah ‘Alam who 
fell ill; she had taken various purges given by the Persian 
physicians without any of them affording the least relief. Her 
abdomen was much distended, and she was in risk of death. I 
was ordered to treat her. I began by sending her an enema 
with a view to an evacuation. I gave directions how it was to 
be used, as they do not have recourse to these in India. The 
implement was wrapped round with a towel sealed with my 
seal. The doorkeepers and eunuchs seeing this strange thing, 
and not knowing what was to be done with it, carried it straight 
to the chief eunuch, and said it was I who had sent it. He 
was just as surprised as the others, having no idea what it was, 
anA sent for me to inquire the use of such an instrument. I 
made him understand what it was and for whom it was pre- 
pared. Thereupon he directed my orders to be at once 
obeyed. As I detected that they did not trust me, I petitioned 
the prince, showing that it was inexpedient for me to serve 
longer at a court where I was mistrusted. Obtaining the 
particulars of the affair, he ordered everything bearing my seal 
to be admitted. 



412 


SHAH 'ALAM'S affability 


This prince (ShSh ‘Alam) is naturally affable and benign; 
and since I know him well, I am of opinion that, should he 
become king, he would do no harm to anyone. There is much 
difference between his temperament and that of his father. 
One day when he was out hunting in the country of Kabul, he 
was forced to take shelter in a shepherd’s hut, owing to the 
rain. While there a very pretty girl appeared before him ; it 
was the shepherd’s daughter. To amuse himself, he asked if 
she was willing to marry him. The young person, without 
knowing to whom she spoke, answered that there was no 
scarcity of feir men whom she could marry, rather than take 
him, who was dark. He laughed heartily at the answer ; but 
the eunuchs present wanted to beat her, which he strenuously 
forbade [49]. Then he asked her if she would be content to 
espouse a fair young man then present, one of the prince’s 
slaves. She assented cordially. This marriage gave her access 
to the palace, and she was much liked by the prince. 

Among the slaves of the princes are some who are gentlemen 
soldiers and hold good positions. Some are purchased, others 
offer themselves to serve in that station. The woman spoken 
of above fell ill of an intestinal complaint which no one could 
overcome. In the end I was directed to treat her; and, dis- 
covering that drugs did her no good, I came to the conclusion 
that a ring of red-hot iron would be most effective. Accord- 
ingly I applied one upon her navel. It began to set in motion 
the contents of her bowels, and without any other remedy they 
passed away. I believe this remedy would be of benefit to those 
attacked by colic and iliac passion (obstruction of the bowels) 
when in extremity, and thereby often save life.^ 

From what I have said above, I imagine that the reader will 
have understood the policy with which these kings and princes 
conduct themselves. He can also see what remains for me to 
say. For, although I may have omitted several things, I have 
yet mentioned enough to give a complete acquaintance with 
this vast empire. 


^ See also II. 128, and III. 186. 



THE MOGUL REVENUE 


413 


List of the Provinces in the Mogul Empire, Twenty- 
four IN Number, with a Statement of the 
Revenues drawn from Each, from Grain only and 
Other Products Necessary to Life, over and above 
Other Revenue to be noted hereafter.^ 

First let us state the names of the divisions, towns, and 
villages which are in these provinces or are dependent on 
them. Sarkar means ‘ division ’ ; pargana means a government 
subordinate to a division. 


I. The province of Deli (Dihl!) has under it eight sarkars 
and two hundred and twenty ^arganaJiSt which yield 

Karors. 

Lakhs. 

Rupees. 

one karor twenty-five lakhs and fifty thousand rupees 
2. The province of Agra or Akbarabad has under it 
folirteen sark&rs and two hundred and seventy-eight 
parganahs, which yield two karors twenty-two lakhs 

I 

25 

50,000 

and three thousand seven hundred and fifty rupees 
3. The province of Labor has five sarkars and three 
hundred and fourteen parganahs, which yield two 


22 

03,750 

karors thirty-three lakhs and five thousand rupees ... 
4. The province of Ajmer, which yields from its sarkars 
and parganahs two karors nineteen lakhs and two 

2 

33 

05,000 

thousand rupees 

5. [50] The province of Gujarat has nine sarkiars and 
nineteen parganahs, which yield two karors thirty- 

2 

19 

02,000 

three lakhs and ninety-five thousand rupees 

6 . The province of Mslwah has eleven sarkars and two 
hundred and fdty parganahs^ which yield ninety-nine 

2 

33 

95,000 

iSkhs six thousand two hundred and fifty rupees ... 

0 

99 

06,250 


^ By * from grain ’ the author means the land revenue. These figures are 
correctly enough reproduced in Catrou, 264, 265, 266, and have been largely 
relied upon by E. Thomas, * Revenue Resources,’ 1871, and other writers. I 
think myself they must be accepted with much reserve. As usual in such tables, 
the sum total is not obtainable by adding up the details, and it is impossible to 
find out where the error lies. Then, the round numbers opposite Nos. 20-24 
show that these entries, at any rate, are mere guesses or approximations, and 
the province of Audh is entirely omitted. There remains the objection that 
applies to all similar tables— those of the * A,In-i-Akbari ’ included — that we do 
not know what the figures represent ; whether (i) a standard assessment (/awtf 
ukamil)f (2) the demand of some particular year U^ina^ 4 -wajtb), or (3) the actual 
collections yama*-uwa§uU), I insert another table drawn up for Bahadur Shah 
(Shah *Alam) in 1707 (see Jag Jivan Bfis, Gujarati, * Munta|^b-ut-Tawarffi^* 
British Museum Additional MS., No. 26,253, fol. 51^ et seq,). Here, also, the 
totals are wrong, and there are, unfortunately, some blanks ; but I have filled 
these in by figures from the other columns, so as to give an approximate total. 



414 


THE MOGUL REVENUE 


7. The province of Patoah or Bihar has eight sarhars and 

two hundred and forty-five parganaJis, which yield 
one havor twenty-one lakhs and fifty thousand rupees 

8. The province of Multan has fourteen savkHrs and 

ninety-six parganahs, which yield fifty lahks and 
twenty-five thousand rupees 

9. The province of Kabul has thirty-five pavgmaks^ 

which yield thirty-two lakhs and seven thousand 
two hundred and fifty rupees 

10. The province of Tattah and its dependencies, sixty 

and twelve thousand rupees 

11. The province of Bhakkar and its dependencies yield 

twenty-four /dA/zs 

12. The province of Urecha [Orissa] has eleven sarkars 

and [one hundred]^ parganahs, which yield fifty- 
seven lakhs and seven thousand five hundred rupees 

13. The province of Kashmir has forty-six parganahs, which 

yield thirty-five lakhs [and] five thousand rupees ... 

14. The province of Allah3.bad, with its dependencies, 

yields seventy-seven lakhs and thirty-eight thousand 
rupees 

15. The province of Aurangabad or Daulatabad, in the 

Dakhin, has eight sarkars and seventy-mne pargmtahs, 
which yield one karor sixty -two lakhs and four 
thousand seven hundred and fifty rupees ... 

16. The province of BarSr has six sarkars and one hundred 

and ninety-one parganahs, which yield one karor 
fifty-eight lakhs and seven thousand five hundred 


Karors. Lakhs. Rupees. 

^ 21 50,000 

o 50 25,000 

o 32 07.250 

o 60 12,000 

o 24 00,000 

° 57 07,500 

o 35 05,000 

0 77 38,000 

1 722 04.750 


. . ... ... ... I 58 07,500 

17, The province of Burhanpur or Landes has three 
sarkars and one hundred and three parganahs, which 
yield one karor eleven lakhs and five thousand 


rupees ... ... ... ... ... j n 05,000 

18. The province of Baglanah has forty-three parganahs, 
and yields sixty-eight lakhs and eighty-five thousand 


rupees 

19. The province of Nande [Nander ?] yields seventy-two 

lakhs ... 

20. The province of Dhakkah or Bengal yields four karors 

21. The province of Ujjain yields two karors 

22. The province of Rajmahal yields one karor and fifty 

thousand rupees 


68 

72 

00 

00 

00 


85.000 

00,000 

00,000 

00,000 

50.000 


1 The text has *ses,’ and Catrou renders it * un assez grand nombre in the 
‘A,in’ lists, ii. 142-144, there are ninety-nine parganahs. I therefore read 


5M=cent. 


= Sto in text ; in the words, probably * soixante-douze ’ should be read for 
* soixante-deux.’ 



THE MOGUL REVENUE 


415 


Karors. L2Lkhs. Rupees. 

23. The kingdom of Bijapur, with the Karnatik, yields six 

karors.,, ... ... ... ... ... 5I 00 00,000 

34. The kingdom of Gulkandah, with another portion of 

the Karnatik, yields five karors ... ... ... 5 00 00,000 

38 3 71 94,000 

[51] Although the Mogul asserts himself to be ruler over 
fifty-four provinces, I do not name them all, because they are 
for the most part in these days subdivisions of the provinces 
that I have just enumerated. 

To understand the revenues of which I have just given the 
figures, it should be known that a karor is one hundred IMkhs, 
or ten millions, and that a lakh is one hundred thousand rupees. 
When summed up the whole comes to three hundred and 
eighty-seven millions one hundred and ninety-four thousand 
rupees, or in French money at thirty sols to the rupee, five 
hundred and eighty millions seven hundred and ninety-one 
thousand livres? 

In addition to this revenue obtained firom grain, et cetera, 
there are other considerable receipts. One is the tribute paid 
by the Hindus, as I have stated in my Second Part (II. 182). 
This has no fixed total, being sometimes more and sometimes 
less. This variation is caused by deaths, and by travellers 
moving from one place to another. If can^nng with them a 
receipt for what they have paid, the latter are allowed to pass 
free. But if they chance to lose this paper, or it be stolen, 
they are made to pay again either in the same or in another 
province. The officials embezzle their collections most terribly, 
to such an extent that the king gets more often than not less 
than half. 

There is a second customs duty upon goods brought by 
Hindu merchants ; it is five per cent. ; and though Aurangzeb 

1 In words the text has ‘six,’ but in figures 5 karors; and the latter figure 
seems correct, judging by the total at foot. 

3 The correct addition I make Rs. 38,72,59,000, or Rs. 65,000 more than in 
the text. 

8 If 580,791,000 livres of 30 sols equal 387,794,000 rupees, then i rupee equals 
I J livres t or 10 annas 8 pies equal i Itvre. Taking the rupee at 2s. , i livre equals 
IS. 4d., and the revenue given above equals 38, 725,900. 



STATEMENT OF REVENUES PREPARED FOR BAHADUR SHAH IN 1707. 
TAKEN FROM THE ‘ MUNTAKHAB-UT-TAWARIKg ’ OF JAG JiVAN DAS, 
GUJARATI (British Museam Additional MS., No. 26,253, fol. 51 ei 

HindijstSn, 15 Suhahs; Dakhin (including BIjapur and Gulkandah), 6 SUhcths; 

Total, 21 Subahs. 


1 

Standard Assess- 

Standard Assess- 

Full Assess- 

Last Recorded 

Manucci’s ! 

Sabah. 1 

ment in Dams 

ment (reduced 

ment 

Receipts 

Figures { 
(in Rupees). | 

(40=1 Rupee). 

to Rupees). 

(in Rupees). 

(in Rupees). 

HindCstan ; 1 





1 

I. Akbarabad ...; 

1,14.17.06,057 

2,85,42,651 

1,06.97,671 

68,92,897 

2.22,03,750 

2. Shahjahanabad, 

1,22,29.50,658 

3,05,73.766 

94,04,030 

63.49,110 

1,25,50,000 

I 3. Ajmer ; 

4. Allahabad {Pan ■ 

65.33.45.702 

1.63,33,642 

1,14,13,581 

1,06,97.371 

68,92,895 

68,92,890 

2,19,02,000 

12,00,000] ... ^ 

45.65.43.248 

1,05,79,371 

77.38,000 

5. Audh 

32,13.17.119 

80,32,928 

91,25.551 

89,61,806 

47.85,871 

[Omitted] 

6. Ahmadabad ... j 

7. Lihor (5 dua- 

45.47 j 44,I35 

1,13,68,603 

71,84,685 

2,33.95*000 


^^AsandKang- 
rah Hills) ... 

89.81,32.107 

2,24,53,302 

87.40,383 

30,42,327 

2,33,05,000 

8. Kabul 

11.10,39,354 

27.75.983 

47,40,221 

30,42,337 

32,07,250 

g. Bahar 

40,71,81,100 

1,01.79,527 

93,50,931 

57.14.873 

1,21,50,000 

84,12.000^ 

10. Tatthah 

6,88,11,800 

17,20.295 

53.65.397 

34.49,657 

II. Maiwah 

40,39,80,658 

1,00,99,516 

56.08,747 

84.72.291 

48.13,283 

2,99,06,250- 

12. Multan 

22.43.49.893 

51.69,389 

24,75.649 

50,25,000 

13. Kashmir 

22,99,11,300 

57,47.782 

29,62,593 

24,80,389 

35.05,000 

14. Bengal 

52,41,31,240 

1,31,03,281 

[Blank] 

81,19,267 

5,00,50,000® 

15. Udissah 

14,28,11,000 

35.70.275 

11,57.821 

[Blank] 

57,07.500 

Total 

7.26,09,55,371 

18,15,23,879 

10,54,24.826 

7,21,36,130 

22.90,56,750 




98,78,558* 

Dakhin : 




8,20,14,688 i 





1 


16. Aurangabad ... 

1,00,49,65,000 

81,40,25,000 

2,51.24,123 

1,00,51,000 

91,99,006 

1,72,04,750 

17. Barar 

2.03,50,625 

90,11,309 

75,89,219 

1.58,07,500 

18. Khandesh 
ig. Zafarabad 

34,81,30,200 

87.03,255 

40,06,019 

31,19.017 

1,79,90,000' 

** Bidar 

37,29,74.307 

93.24,357 

[Blank] 

42,42,932 

72,00,000 

20. Bijapur 

21. Haidarabad ... 

2.35,55,00,000 

3,88,87,500 

[Blank] 

5,89,87,501 

5,00,00,000 

1,15,13,00,000 

2,87.82,500 

[Blank] 

2,47,82,500 

5,00,00000 

Total ... 

6.04,68,94,507 

15,11,72,362 

1 2,30,68,328 
9.69.94,357®! 

10,79,20,175 

15,82,02,250 




j 12,00,62,685 



Grand total 

13.30,78.49.878 

33,26,96,241 

22.54.87,511 

18,99.34.863 

38.72.59,000 

Totals, according to 






text of MS. : 
Hindustan 

7.25.26,91,767 

18,13,17.294 

_ 

8,20,14,688 


Dakhin 

6,08.73.00,074 

15.21,82,501 

— 

10,79,20,173 

— 

j Total 

13.33.99.91,841 

33.34.99,795 

— 

18,99,34,861 

— 

{Difference in excess 






in MS 

3,21,41.963 

8.03,554 

— 

— 

1 


This table brings into relief the great exaggeration of Manucci*s figures, which are about 
000,000 in excess of the assumed standard land revenue demand of seven years later than 
his time ; while the actual demand for that later year was 16,000,000, and the actual collec- 
tions 19, 000, 000 to /2i,ooo,ooo, less than his figures. It must also be remembered that his 
total does not include the province of Audh, of which the standard assessment in Jag Jivan 
Das’s table is over 80 lakhs of rupees — say, £800,000. Of what value, then, can elaborate com- 
parisons of the Mogul revenue with present-day taxation be worth when founded on such 
inflated statements ? 


^ Including Bhakkar. 

^ Estimated for Orissa. 


® Maiwah and Ujjain. 
® Including BaglS-nah. 


3 Dhakah and Rajmalial. 
® Estimated for 3 subahs. 





MINES, SEA CUSTOMS, ESCHEATS AND TRIBUTE 417 


had remitted it for Mahomedans, he has not failed all the same 
to take two and a half per cent, [from them]. He makes 
those whom he had exempted pay the rents and customs duty. 
He also draws large sums from the bathings which the HindQs 
perform at various points in the empire. There is also another 
source of revenue, the diamond mines in the kingdom of 
Gulkandah, over and above the largest and the best of the 
stones. Any which weigh above three-eighths of an ounce be- 
long to the Crown. The seaports also yield him a large 
revenue ; among them are those of Sindl, Bharoch, Surat, and 
Kambaya. Surat alone brings him in usually thirty lakhs, 
besides the eleven^ lakhs derived from the profit on new coin 
struck there. 

In’ addition to all these items, he has the revenue from the 
whole coast of Choromandal, from Masulipatam (Machhlipa- 
tanam), from Narslpur,® and of the whole coast from Pundy® 
(Pundl), or from Ginserly (Gingerli),^ as far as Ballasor 
(Baleshwar) also from all the ports on the river Ganges. 
Over and above all these items, he seizes everything left by his 
generals, officers, and other officials at their death, in spite of 
having declared that he makes no claim on the goods of de- 
funct persons. Nevertheless, under the pretext that they are 
his officers and are in debt to the Crown, he lays hold of every- 
thing. If they leave widows, he gives them a trifle every year 
and some land to furnish a subsistence. He also causes the 
goods of merchants to be seized if they die without heirs. 
Again, added to all that, he receives very considerable presents 
from the Hindu princes, zamlndars, and their servants. 

The rajahs, the generals of the army, and the commanders 
are made to contribute a certain sum, according to the number 
of Hindus in their service. Usually this is taken as a deduction 

^ In text * s s,* which Catrou, 266, renders as * eleven/ 

^ NarsSLpur, lat. x6^ 26', long. 81** 44', thirty-nine miles south of Rajahmundzy, 
Godaveri district (* Madras Manual of Administration,’ iii. 565). It had an 
English factory (1677-1827) ; a French factory was there in 1758 ; the Dutch had 
one from 1665. PQndl, a small fort on the Orissa coast, 467 miles north-east of 
Madras {ibid,, iii. 707). Gingerly, the east coast between Vizagapatnam and 
Jagamath in Orissa (see Yule, 375, and Sir R, C. Temple, ‘T. Bowery,’ 120). 
Balasor, in Cuttack, 116 miles south-west of Calcutta (Thornton, * Gazetteer,’ 6z). 

VOL. II. 27 



4i8 


FOREIGN TRADE 


from the pay disbursed to them. The king’s sons even are not 
exempted, and Shah ‘Alam, my prince, paid in my day eighty 
thousand rupees a year. These revenues amount to something 
near the same total as the revenue from grain, of which I gave 
the figures above.^ 

It ought to be remembered that the whole of the merchandise 
which is exported from the Mogul kingdom comes [52] firom 
four kinds of plants — that is to say, the shrub that produces 
the cotton from which a large quantity of cloth, coarse and 
fine, is made. These cotton goods are exported to Europe, 
Persia, Arabia, and other quarters of the world. The second 
is the plant which produces indigo. The third is the one from 
which comes opium, of which a large amount is used on the 
Java coast. The fourth is the mulberry-tree, on which their 
silk-worms are fed, and, as it may be said, that commodity 
(silk) is grown on those trees. 

For the export of all this merchandise, European and other 
traders bring much silver to India. They also carry away 
great quantities of diamonds and saltpetre. The traders also 
bring much gold from China, from Achln,* situated on the 
coast of F. Su (?) — I mean upon the island of Sumatra. Also 
from the coast of Persia there came Venetian^ (a coin) and 
sequins^ (coins), in addition to some fruits and liqueurs, almost 
all of which are for the use of Europeans living in India. 

Since I have given an account of how these kings and princes 
pay their soldiers and servants, I think it convenient to add 
something about the government of this vast empire. It is 
carried on through three principal officials. The first is the 
chief Wazlr, who is first minister and principal counsellor. He 

1 The statement that the miscellaneous revenue equalled the land revenue can 
hardly be accepted; it must be a great exaggeration. In fact, many of the 
miscellaneous items, such as sea customs, collected by the diwdns, were entered 
as maJjdls (heads of receipt) in the mdl (land revenue), and not in the 5 d,ir 
(miscellaneous) accounts, and thus are already included in Manucci’s total of 
if 38, 725.900, Most of the sa,ir items (fines, market dues, ferry tolls) were 
collected by the police — that is, by the kotwdls z.ndfaujddn, 

2 Achin, a state and town in the north-west angle of Sumatra Island (Yule, 3). 

3 ‘ Venetians ’ (Yule, 9646), a name for sequins {p>td„ 1936), the Venetian zecchino 
or cecchino: from zecca^ the mint at Venice, a word of Arabic origin {sikkah, 
a die). 



THE CHIEF OFFICIALS 


419 


it is who has charge of letting out the lands on rent, and 
collecting from them the income for the benefit of the Crown. 
He it is, also, who confers all offices, as well upon the nobles 
as upon subordinates. 

The second high official is the Dlwan of the salaries.^ His 
duties are the receiving all the revenues of the empire, the 
realizing the property of deceased persons, whether nobles or 
poor men. It is also his duty to resume the property of those 
persons who are removed from the service ; he also carries out 
any alteration in offices or in allowances. The third great 
official is the Mir Samm. He has charge of the whole expen- 
diture of the royal household in reference to both great and 
small things. 

In addition to these three officials there are others. One is 
the Mir Ba^shi, who is in charge of all the cavalry of the 
empire ; there is another who is placed over all the infantry ; 
another, called the qazi, who decides cases in the last resort. 
In spite of having those powers, when he condemns anyone to 
death he cannot order execution without first reporting to the 
king three times. Joined with him are always two mufits, who 
act as judges in cases. If any woman objects to living with 
her husband and goes to lodge a plaint, he (the qdzl) keeps her 
three days in his house ; and after that interval he pronounces 
judgment on the dispute between them just as he thinks best. 
No one can demand the reasons for his acts in that respect, 
whether his decision be a good or bad one. 

As I was friends with the qdzl ‘Abd-ul-wahhab,^ who invited 
me frequently to his house, I will recount a judgment delivered 
by him in my presence. There was a woman who came to him 
requiring the condemnation of a young man then in custody for 
having slain her husband. The qdzl in a mild tone counselled her 
to forgive, and if she would listen to him, he would advise her to 
marry the man, or else some other should she object to having 
the murderer. The woman consented to the proposal, the 

1 The word used is traites (French), * draft, order of payment,’ and I take it to 
represent Dlwan-i-Tan, tan being a contraction of tanHkwah (literally, ‘body * + 

‘ need ’), meaning pay and salary. This dtwan^s chief duty was the regulation of 
ja^lrs, or assignments of land revenue in lieu of pay and allowances. 

2 For ‘Abd-ul-wahhab, see I. 277, and II. 145. 

27 — 2 



420 


QAZlS AND KOTWALS 


young man was released [52*], and she married him. Seeing 
this easy way of proceeding, I took the liberty to say to the 
qa^ that the sentence he had just pronounced was likely to be 
the cause of several murders; for there being many women 
who were not content with their husbands, they would procure 
their murder by the hand of their lover, in order to marry again 
at once with the latter. He admitted the force of what I said, 
but he made believe to laugh at it, and said it was a charity to 
secure a benefit to the young man and save his life. But if the 
woman had persisted in her complaint, he would have con- 
demned him to death. All the same, firom all that I could see, 
I believe that the qa^ acted thus merely to keep the woman 
three days in his house ; for, in spite of his age, I fancy that he 
was not a stranger to such matters, and the woman was very 
pretty. 

As a proof of the absolute justice of the decisions that the 
qa.?l delivers, I will report a case which happened a month or so 
after the flight of his daughter from her home, carrying off all the 
best of his property, in the manner that 1 have related (II. 144). 
This qazl had a son, or, rather, a nephew, whom he greatly 
loved. This youth often heard cases and pronounced sentence 
in his uncle’s place. The nephew, having learnt that a Hindu 
had a very lovely wife, caused her to be carried off, and detained 
her in his house. On learning this fact, the husband com- 
plained to the qa ?1 and other officials, but without effect. All 
the qS.^ said was that he deserved death for having behaved to 
his wife in an illicit way, only to think of which was horrible. 
Although angered at such injustice, the Hindu concealed his 
vexation for some days. But one day, while the nephew was on 
his way to the court, the Hindu hid in the crowd surrounding 
his palanquin, and thrust his dagger (kattarl) into his abdomen. 
Leaving it there, he instantly mingled again with the crowd and 
disappeared. When the bearers had lowered the palanquin, 
they opened it and found their master a corpse. 

There is still another subaltern official that they call the 
kotwal, who is a sort of lieutenant of police. It is his business 
to stop the distillation of arrack (spirits, ‘arq), the eau-de-vie 
used in the Indies. He has to see that there are no public 



THE PROVINCES— DIHLI 


421 


women in the town, nor an3^hing else forbidden by the king. 
He obtains information about all that goes on, so as to be able 
to send in his report. For this purpose there are throughout 
the Mogul Empire certain persons known as ‘alarcor’ (fialdl-Mlor),^ 
a word which means ‘ men who live on what is well earned.’ 
These men are under obligation to go twice a day to clean out 
every house, and they tell the hotwdl all that goes on. On his 
part, the hotwdl must render an account to the king of what he 
he has heard has happened, whether it be by night or by day. 
He also has the duty of arresting thieves and criminals. He is 
subordinate to the qdzly and receives orders from him; and if 
anyone is robbed within the bounds of his jurisdiction, he is 
forced to make good what has been taken. It is also his busi- 
ness to collect the income from the town.^ Under his orders 
there is a considerable body of cavalry [53] and a great number 
of foot soldiers ; for in every ward there is a horseman and 
twenty to thirty foot soldiers, who, in a sort of way, go the 
rounds. There is another official in charge of the grain supply, 
who informs the king daily of the price of everything sold. In 
all the mansions of the nobles, and of those holding important 
offices, there are wdqi^ali-navls and khufiyah-navls^ who are 
under obligation to send word to the court of all that happens. 

It seems to me now convenient to give a statement of the 
cavalry that the Mogul keeps in garrison in all the provinces 
of which I have spoken, of the merchandise to be found in 
them, in what latitude their capitals are situated, and other 
notable particulars. 

Deli {Dihlt). 

The province of Dihll is in the middle of the empire. Its 
capital bears the same name, and it is in this town that the 
Mogul ordinarily dwells and keeps his court. For it was in 
this place that of old the powerful Hindu kings resided ; 
also the Chinese governors, and the thirty and one Pathan 
kings who reigned; and divers other potentates, such as the 

1 Halal-MiPr (' eaters of lawful things ’): the word is applied ironically, and actually 
means ‘ unclean eaters, ‘ * eaters of refuse, ’ They are the house scavengers. 

^ That is, the various dues and cesses. 



422 


DIHLI CITY 


Sa3^ds and the Rajputs; and, finally, all the Mahomedan 
rulers. 

Although it is the seat of the principal court, there are not 
many manufactures. But its territory is fertile in grain, from 
which is collected the amount I have recorded. You can see 
still up to this day round the town several ancient edifices built 
by the Chinese, by HindQ princes and Pathan kings. There is 
even a town called Tocklabad (Tughlaqabad), built by the ninth 
Pathan king. The greater part of it still stands. 

This prince, called Chatoclug (Shah Tughlaq), reigned nine 
years and nine days. He died when entering one of the gates 
of the said town, through the treachery of his son perpetrated 
at that place. The son had expressly prepared a trap, which fell 
upon the poor man and took his life. It is for this reason and 
others similar that these kings have not the slightest trust in 
their children. 

There are also in this province other ruined cities, where the 
Mahomedans sometimes resort out of piety. For example, 
there is one where there is a pretended saint buried that they 
call Coja Catobdin (Stwajah Qutb-ud-dln), and in another of 
them close by there is another similar saint called Sultan 
Machac (Sultan- ul-musha,i^).^ I have noticed at these places 
that many tricks are resorted to as excitements to the devotion 
of the superstitious. 

Ordinarily the king keeps fifty thousand horse in garrison 
besides those in movement every day, an almost equal number. 
He has twenty thousand infantry, all Rajputs : out of them 
twelve thousand are in charge of the artilleiy; the rest are for 
guarding the royal palace, mounting sentry, et cetera. As regards 
the royal establishment, there is an oflScer styled Daroga Do 
Cossa Choqui (Dd/ro gha h of the Khas Chauki ) — that is, ‘ officer 
of the chosen sentinels the reason is that the company to 
which this name is given are all picked men, and of the noblest 
families. Ordinarily they number four thousand horsemen. 
This officer has charge of the Gousal-cana (Gh usal-Midmh ) . 

^ This must be meant for the well-known tomb of Nigam-ud-din Auliya, who 
is styled SultSn-ul-Musha.ikh. * King of Holy Men ’ (Beale, * Oriental Biography,* 

302). 



COURT CEREMONIAL 


423 


Under his orders are some slave officers with their men, who 
are called Cheala (Chelah ) — that is, ‘branded.’ There is another 
officer at the head of five hundred halberdiers, who carry golden 
maces; their pay ranges from three hundred up to one 
thousand rupees a month, according to the class they are in. 
They are employed for sending messages to princes and for 
other business of importance. Again, there is an officer who 
commands one thousand halberdiers with silver maces. These, 
too, are mansabdars, and their pay is from two hundred up to 
five hundred rupees a month. Their duty is to carry letters 
and orders to the generals and captains. These men also 
attend at the reception of ambassadors and other business of 
less importance. There is still another officer set over two 
thousand mansabddrs with iron maces, who have the same 
pay as soldiers. They are used for the lowest affairs and 
business. 

These three orders of mace-bearers also add to the pomp and 
parade when the king holds audience. They are in addition to 
the other soldiers who are posted all round the royal courtyard. 
On such occasions there are nine elephants highly caparisoned 
and decorated, followed each by ten others, male and female. 
The nine chief elephants remain until the end of the audience ; 
the others that accompany them, after making their obeisance, 
withdraw. Besides the elephants there are nine horses saddled 
and fitted with beautiful trappings. During the reign of Shah- 
jahan the retinue was as large again. Especially was this seen 
after any prince had left that emperor’s court, taking with him 
as many as two hundred thousand men. Yet it seemed as if 
not a single person had gone away. 

This town lies near thirty-one degrees forty-five minutes of 
latitude, and one hundred and twenty-three of longitude. Once 
a week all the inhabitants, great and small, are obliged to 
attend and mount guard outside and inside the fortress. When 
anyone quits the service he has to give up two months’ pay 
before getting his discharge. As for the rest of what is due to 
these men, it is made over to them in old clothes, and even 
these are valued at high rates, and are obtained with the greatest 
difficulty. 



424 


AGRAH— labor 


Agrah, or Akbardbad. 

This province abounds in white cloth, silk stuffs, cloth of 
gold and of silver of great fineness, used for turbans, in lace 
and other adornments for women. All the above goods are 
manufactured in this place. The country round produces much 
indigo, which is collected there. The capital town has the 
same name ; it was built by Akbar. It is at this town that are 
gathered together in a treasure-house all the coin received from 
the direction of Bengal. The garrison maintained is of fifteen 
thousand horsemen ; this great number is kept to resist the 
peasantry, who [55] are much inclined to rebellion. It is 
situated at twenty-nine degrees twenty minutes of latitude, and 
one hundred and twenty-three of longitude. 


Loot {Lahor). 

The towm of Labor was founded by the faithful and famous 
Melekas (Malik Ghiyag),i of whom I have spoken in my History 
(II. 137). It is the capital of a province. A quantity of fine 
white cloth is made there ; many pieces of silk of all colours, 
which are called elattchas (aldchah);^ also much work in em- 
broidery, carpets, plain and flowered, good bows and arrows, 
tents, saddles, swords, coarse woollen stuffs, boots and shoes. 
Much rock-salt is gained from neighbouring mountains, and 
there are other commodities, which are exported to Dihll, 
where everything finds a sale and is consumed. The people 
here are well-built and almost white; they are very frien^y 
and helpful There are many learned men, called Talebelem 
itdlib-i-‘ilm). It has a fertile soil, yielding rice and corn. Sugar 
is very dear (grand-marche). The province is styled the ‘ Panjab ’ 
because there are five great rivers. There are twelve thousand 
cavalry in garrison ; and the capital lies in thirty-three degrees 

^ See ante. Part II., 137 et seq,, where I transliterated * Malik * according 
to Manucci’s interpretation. But I think it must be meant for Ghivas-ud-din 
Muhammad, Ghori. died 599 H. (1202-3) » he was not a slave. 

3 For alackah, see Yule, i^a, 13&, a silk cloth, and ‘Abdullah bin Yusuf ‘Ali, 
‘Monograph on Silk Fabrics,* 95. The rock-salt ‘from mountains’ must be 
meant for salt from the Salt Range between the Jihlam and the Indus. 



AyMER-^GUJARAT^-^MALWA H 425 

of latitude, and one hundred and nineteen degrees forty minutes 
of longitude. 

Asmir {Ajmer) » 

The name is that of the chief town of a province of the same 
name. They make much fine white cloth ; they harvest much 
grain ; milk, butter, and salt are abundant. The last article 
comes from the district of Sambhal (Sambhar),^ subordinate to 
this province. The province pays yearly a revenue of seventeen 
lakhs of rupees. It adjoins the territory of the Rajputs, called 
Rathor, and the Rana’s country. There are kept in the pro- 
vince six thousand horsemen as a garrison, and the chief town 
lies at thirty degrees of latitude, and one hundred and twenty 
and a half of longitude. 

Gujarat^ or Ai.maicLhad. 

In this province there is made a prodigious quantity of gold 
and silver cloth, and of flowered silks. These goods are in 
demand in all the courts throughout the empire. They also 
make much gold and silver work, and a quantity of jewellery 
set with stones. The dealers who give the orders for this class 
of work go themselves, or send agents to the diamond mines, 
to the kingdoip of Pegu, to the Pescaria^ coast (Fisherman’s 
Coast), and other places, to buy the precious stones they require. 
All these merchants are Hindu by religion, and are called 
Gujaratis. Their persons are well made, and their women 
always smothered in jewellery. The country is fertile in cereals; 
it was conquered by King Akbar from Sultan Bahadur. Usually 
a garrison of ten thousand cavalry is kept there. The capital 
town lies in twenty-three degrees of latitude, and one hundred 
and sixteen degrees thirty minutes of longitude. 

Mdlwah. 

This province produces white and coloured cloth abundantly. 
The country is fertile in cereals ; a garrison of seven thousand 

1 The Sambhax salt lake is about fifty miles north of Ajmer. I presume that 
N. M. means that seventeen lakhs of rupees were obtained from the salt. 

3 Piscaria (Yule, 700), the coast of Tinnevelly, so called from the great 
pearl-fishery there. 



426 


BIHAR-^MULTAN-'KAB UL 


horse is maintained, and the capital lies at twenty-six degrees 
of latitude, and one hundred and three degrees fifty minutes of 
longitude. 

Pafnah^ or Bihar, 

Fine white cloth is very plentiful in this province ; they find 
there the materials for a great quantity of saltpetre, which is 
carried by the Europeans to Europe. At the principal town, 
called Patnah, much earthen pottery is made, which emits a 
pleasant odour, and is so fine that it is no thicker than paper. 
It is sent to court as a rarity, and is used by the nobles. A 
garrison of seven thousand horse is kept ; and it (Patnah) is 
situated at twenty-five degrees thirty minutes of latitude, and 
one hundred and thirty-two of longitude. 

Multan. 

Much printed cloth is made in this province, also bows and 
arrows. The country has many short-haired camels, mules, and 
asses. It is in this province that there are powerful zaminddrs, 
Biloch by race, who have always been loyal to the crown. 
They are all Mahomedans. Six thousand horse are kept there 
as garrison, and the capital town lies at thirty-three degrees 
forty minutes of latitude, and one hundred and fifteen degrees 
twenty minutes of longitude. 


Kabul. 

This province abounds in good horses, called Turki, also in 
large hairy camels ; and it has many good fruits, the equal of 
those of Europe, It is very cold there ; the people are fair, and 
they eat at tables like in Europe. They allow no black men to 
sit down with them, and call them gullum {gh uldm ) — ^that is, 
‘ slaves.’ The traders of India go to this province to buy 
beavers (castors) and the skins of those beasts, musk, zedoar, 
and rubies. These things are brought there from the countries 
of Bada^shan and Balkh, and from neighbouring lands. 
Although this province yields little revenue, it has a garrison of 
sixty thousand horse. The reason is that it is near the kingdom 
of Persia, that of the king of [omitted],^ and the Pathans. The 
^ Probably the word to be supplied is Bal^. 



TA TTA H—BHA KKA R—OrISSA H 


437 


capital town is situated at thirty-six degrees twenty minutes of 
latitude, and one hundred and thirteen degrees fifty minutes of 
longitude. 

Taifhah. 

The province of Tatthah abounds in very fine white cloth, 
also in coarse cloth and printed cloth of two kinds, and has much 
leather, which is exported to Arabia and Persia. The country 
produces much grain, and butter is very plentiful, which is 
exported to Masqat. A garrison of five thousand horse is main- 
tained, and the capital town is situated at twenty-five degrees 
thirty minutes of latitude, and one hundred and nine degrees 
forty minutes of longitude. When I first reached Hindustan I 
found many persons still living who had been alive in the time 
of Akbar ; among others one of the sons of the King of Tatthah, 
who became a great friend of mine. The poor man was blind, 
Akbar having deprived him of sight with a red-hot iron. This 
was for fear that he might flee, and once more make himself 
master of his father’s realm ; for at that time, as a young man, 
he seemed of a very enterprising and restless disposition. 

Bhakkar. 

In this province is made much white and coloured cloth ; the 
soil is fertile, and the grain produced is excellent. The in- 
habitants are, speaking generally, very miserable and very poor 
[57]. The greater part of them live by dealing in the products 
of their cattle. A garrison is kept there of two thousand horse- 
men, and the capital town is situated at twenty-eight degrees 
thirty minutes of latitude, and one hundred and twelve degrees 
twenty-five minutes of longitude. 

Unssah. 

This province lies among the lands of very powerful and 
redoubtable Hindu princes; much fine white cloth is made 
there. The land produces much rice. It is in this province 
that stands the pagoda called Jagrenat (Jagarnath). The chief 
town is situated at twenty degrees twenty-five minutes of lati- 
tude, and one hundred and twenty-five degrees twenty-five 
minutes of longitude. 



4^8 


KASHMIR— ALLAHABAD— A URANGABAD 


Kashmir. 

In the province of Kashmir much fine linen^ cloth is made, 
of which a great deal is used by the nobles, for this cloth is 
very convenient and very healthy in cold weather. They make 
many beds, ink-boxes, trays, boxes, spoons, et cetera, out of wood, 
both in plain and carved work. Fruit is plentiful, just as in 
Kabul ; the inhabitants are fair and with fine features. As for 
their disposition, I believe them to be descended from the Jews, 
seeing the way they act. The Moguls keep there four thousand 
horse as a garrison ; and the chief town is at thirty-six degrees 
forty minutes of latitude, and one hundred and twenty of 
longitude. 

Illavas {AUahdbM). 

At the capital of this province no cloth is made ; nothing 
but dishes of different colours, and not very durable. At the 
town of Benares and others dependent upon it are made many 
stuffs of silk, cloth of gold and of silver, turbans, waist-belts, 
and goods suited to women’s use. Eight thousand horsemen 
are kept there, most of whom are usually in the field, for the 
peasantry of this region are much inclined to rebellion. Many 
vegetables and cereals are grown here. The chief town lies at 
twenty-nine degrees twenty minutes of latitude, and one hundred 
and twenty-nine degrees fifteen minutes ot longitude. In the 
first year of Aurangzeb’s reign the water in the two rivers 
there (Allahabad) rose to such a height that almost the whole 
town was under water, and many people were drowned; the 
fortress alone escaped the inundation. 

Aurangabad. 

In this province much white cloth and silk stuffs are pro- 
duced. Aurangzeb founded the chief town as a memorial to 
himself when he was only a prince. Formerly a strong 
garrison of cavalry was kept there, because it was on the 
BljS-pur and Gulkandah frontiers, and near the territory of 
Shiva JI. But nowadays there are only a few men, as the rest 

1 Surely lin (linen) must be a mistake for laine (wool). The woollen products 
of Kashmir are celebrated. 



BA RAR^B URHANP URSA GLANA HSANDER 


429 


are engaged in the war against Shiva Jl [i.e., the Mahrattahs]. 
Aurangabad is at nineteen degrees twenty-five minutes of lati- 
tude, and one hundred and twenty degrees twenty-five minutes 
of longitude, 

Barar. 

The soil of the Barar province is productive in cereals. 
Corn and vegetables are found there in abundance, as is also 
the poppy, the plant from which opium is made. There is a 
great quantity of sugar-cane. A garrison of seven thousand 
horsemen is maintained ; and the chief town [58] lies at twenty- 
three degrees of latitude, and one hundred and twenty-five 
degrees forty minutes of longitude. 

Burhanpur, or Khmdesh. 

In this province they make much very fine white and coloured 
cloth, also printed cloth, which are exported in quantities by 
Persian and Armenian merchants to Persia, Arabia, and 
Turkey. The soil is productive in grain. The garrison kept 
there is one of six thousand horse; the chief town lies at 
twenty-three degrees of latitude, and one hundred and twenty- 
three degrees thirty minutes of longitude. 

Bagldnah. 

They weave in this province much coarse white cloth, but 
little of fine quality. Much grain grows in it. It has a garrison 
of five thousand men. The chief town is at nineteen degrees 
of latitude, and one hundred and eighteen of longitude. 

Nmde {PNander). 

In this province also much white cloth is made. The soil is 
fertile in cereals. The garrison consists of six thousand horse ; 
and the chief town lies at twenty-seven degrees of latitude, and 
one hundred and four degrees twenty minutes of longitude. 

l^hahah. 

Dhakah is the largest town in, and the capital of the province 
of Bengal. It is in this vast region that they produce the 



430 


DHAKKA H— UJJA IN—RAJMA EA L--~BIjAP UR 


prodigious quantity of fine white cloth and silken stuffs of which 
the nations of Europe and elsewhere transport annually several 
shiploads. This town has under its rule many adjacent 
countries, as far as Goaty (Gauhatl) and the fortress of Azo 
(Hajo), near to Achami (Assam) and to Chatigan (Chatganw), 
which are on the frontier of the Racan (Arakan) kingdom. 
Owing to the proximity of these countries, a garrison of forty 
thousand horse is maintained. Dhakah is at twenty-three 
degrees thirty minutes of latitude, and one hundred and thirty- 
three degrees forty minutes of longitude. 

Ujjain. 

This province produces nothing but grain and salt. It is 
here that resides one of the principal generals with a garrison 
of ten thousand horse. Sometimes a prince of the blood 
occupies this post, because this country is situated in the midst 
of the territories of strong and powerful rajahs. The town of 
the same name is very ancient, and it was once the seat of a 
Hindu rajah’s court, and is an important holy place. It remains 
a place of pilgrimage until this day, although almost in ruins. 
It lies at twenty-eight degrees twenty-five minutes of latitude, 
and one hundred and twenty-two degrees thirty minutes of 
longitude. 

Rajmahal. 

It was in this province that the prince Shah Shuja‘, second 
son of the king Shahjahan, dwelt. They make much fine 
cloth, and a great quantity of rice is harvested. The garrison 
is of four thousand horse. The name Raj-mahal means 
* Rajah’s Palace.’ The chief town lies at twenty-four degrees 
twenty minutes of latitude, and one hundred and thirty-two of 
longitude. 

Bljapur. 

This province is at present the theatre of the war waged by 
Aurangzeb against Shiva Jl [i.e., the Mahrattahs]. Aurangzeb 
has fixed his abode within it in the dread that Shiva Ji might 
otherwise render himself master of it. The chief town is at 
seventeen degrees twenty-five minutes of latitude, and one 
hundred [59] and eighteen degrees fifty minutes of longitude. 



GULKANDAH 


431 


GulkandaJi. 

In this province are the diamond mines. A quantity of 
printed cloth is made, and these goods are the best to be found 
in India. They also make a great deal of white cloth, coarse and 
fine. Iron is abundant. The garrison kept there is of about 
twenty thousand horse, although the king pays for sixty 
thousand, since the Karnatik has been annexed. But the 
officers make a profit out of the difference, and embezzle 
without any fear. The capital of the province lies at nineteen 
degrees forty minutes of latitude, and at one hundred and 
twenty-four degrees forty minutes of longitude. 

Money is coined in every one of the provinces spoken of 
above. 

In Gulkandah, of which I have just been speaking, is a 
district called Bezoar^ (? Baizwada), near the country of Chanda. 
In that part goats are very numerous, and in them grow the 
bezoar stones. It is from this place that the stones take their 
name. It is found that these stones grow in the small in- 
testines of the goat, and the goat-herds who tend them are 
aware of how many there are in each goat, and the weight of 
each. 

As for the latitudes and longitudes of the above places, as 
recorded by me, they are founded on the calculations and 
estimates of the astronomers in this country. They have a 
great reputation for strict exactness.^ 

The king and the princes keep officials in every one of these 
provinces, whose business it is to put in hand the best goods 
that can be fabricated in each place. With this object in view, 
they keep an eye continually upon what is being done in that 
respect. Usually the viceroys and governors are in a constant 

^ Probably the place meant is Baizwada, now in the Masulipatam district of 
the Madras Presidency (Thornton, ‘ Gazetteer,’ loi), lat. 16® 31', long. 80® 41', 
twenty miles north-east of Guntur, and now a railway junction. Chanda is some 
230 miles or more to the north of Baizwada. As to the bezoar stones, see ante, 
Part I., 33, and Yule, 90, second edition. Manucci’s etymology is very far out, 
as Yule refers the word to the Arabic form of the Persian pa-zahr, an antidote 
to poison. 

3 These do not accord with the statements in the ‘ A,in-i-Akbari ’ (Jarrett), 
iii. 46-105, and I do not know on what data they are founded. 



432 


THE HINDD principalities 


State of quarrel with the Hindu princes and zamlndars — ^with 
some because they wish to seize their lands; with others, to 
force them to pay more revenue than is customary. 

It now remains to say something of what grows in the terri- 
tories of the Hindu princes. In the country of the King RSaS 
there is much grain, maxiy papoles papaya),^ which is a certain 
fruit of India, poppy plants from which opium is obtained, 
ginger, and Indian saffron® (turmeric), which is a kind of sTnq] ) 
yellow root. The RSna owns several copper mines, and in his 
country are manufactured several kinds of coarse printed cloth. 

The lands of the Rathor, who rules nine districts, are for the 
most part all sand ; they have little or no water. The wells in 
some places are so deep that the water is drawn with the help 
of oxen. When water is to be drawn, those who set t hes e 
animals to work beat a drum as a warning that the pot is at 
the mouth of the well, and they are about to draw water. The 
cereals grown in this country come up by help of the r ain 
only. There are a great many camels and dromedaries with- 
out pong] hair. 

In the lands of the other rajahs there grow the same crops 
as stated above. There is much iron, which is used for swords, 
lances, and other weapons. With respect to the weapons of 
this country, there once happened a comical adventure to King 
ShShjahan. This prince said one day to Rajah Chattar SSI 
R5e that he should like to pay him a visit in his country. The 
rajah replied that the very next day he would show him all he 
wanted to see. Next morning at sunrise [6o] Chattar S51 R5e 
brought out a division of cavalry twenty thousand strong, all 
provided with swords and holding their lances in their hands. 
He posted them before the royal palace on the river bank. 
Then he set round them a number of infantry, also with spears. 
On beholding this array the king seemed astonished. 

' Perhaps papoU is a copyist's error for pupoU^ a^id the thing meant may be 
fapo^ or a kind of winter cherry, Physdis oMguhta (Platts, 223, 276); or 
papr», GarMnia lattfolia, also a name for the plantain, Musa paradisiaca, and the 
fruit of the dkak-tree {ihii., 213) ; 01 pippalt, long pepper (ibid., 223). 

* ‘ Indian saffron ’ is haldi, or turmeric (Yule, 780). 



XXIV. Rajah Jai Singh (Mirza Rajah), Kachhwahah, of amber. 





THE RANA and the RATHOR 


433 


Then the rajah spoke. He said to the prince : ‘ Sire, by this 
spectacle your Majesty is absolved from going any farther to 
inspect my country, for I can assure you that it is all exactly 
what you have under your eyes.’ The king concealed the 
vexation caused him by such a compliment, and then retorted 
that he knew very well that he was a loyal vassal, whose valour 
would be useful against his enemies. Afterwards he gave him 
a set of robes (sarapa)^ with some horses, and sent him back to 
his own country. He was sent for again when Aurangzeb and 
Murad Bakhsh came against Prince Dara, and there he lost his 
life, as I have stated in my First Part (I. 191). 

[Here follows a statement of the chief Hindu rajahs and 
princes to be found in Hindustan, who are vassals of the Mogul. 
There are eighty-four of them, and they dwell between the 
Indus or the Ganges, as far as Allahabad and the Narbada 
river. These lands are called Hindustan — that is, ^ Hindudom.’] 

The most powerful rajahs are three in number : 

1. The first is the rajah Rana, a word which means 
' Graceful Carriage.’^ All his descendants bear the same name, 
and he calls himself son of him who was saved from the 
Deluge (? Noah). He is lord of the town of Udepur, and his 
tribe call themselves Sedussj6 (Sisodiyah). He is the sovereign 
lord of a large country, which yields him a great revenue. He 
has always ready for the field fifty thousand horse and two 
hundred thousand infantry, all of his own race. If he wanted 
to enlist more he could do so ; all the more easily that he is 
extremely powerful and wealthy. He moves under the shelter 
of an umbrella, an honour conceded to no one but the Mogul 
king. 

2. The second is called Rathor. He rules over nine districts 
called Nacott Marvar (Nau-kot Marwar ka).® The capital of 
the country is called Judarpur (Jodhpur). These districts 
were formerly governed by Rajah Jaswant Singh, which is 
the name of a lion. I have spoken of him several times in 

^ Manucci is confounding ya'fiah (Arabic), * beautiful,* and ydna, brom the 
Sanskrit, the title of a Hindu prince. 

2 Tod’s ‘Nine Castles of MSru* (‘Rajasthan,’ ii. 39 note); the subdivisions 
of the Marwar State. 


VOL. II. 


28 



434 


KACHHWAHAH, HApA, BUNDELAH 


my History. This rajah can put into the field as powerful 
an army as the Rana’s, and all of his own race. The descen- 
dants of Rajah Jaswant Singh are the present rulers of the 
country. 

3. The third is called Chaqu6 (? Kachhwahah) ; his capital 
town is called Amber. This country was formerly ruled over 
by Rajah Jai Singh, a name meaning ‘Lion’s Victory.’ He 
was of great use to Aurangzeb, and as pa3nnent for his services 
that monarch caused him to be poisoned. His descendants 
have done good work against the peasants of Agrah and 
Mathura, as may be seen in my Second Part (II. 252). This 
prince or rajah [61], can produce for a campaign forty thousand 
horse and one hundred and fifty thousand infantry, all of the 
the same race. 

Besides the above three there are other thirty smaller and 
less powerful rajahs. Of these, the first is Rajah Quaran 
(Karan),’ and this is also the name of his race; the word 
means ‘liberal.’ I have spoken of him already (II. 14). He 
has an army of twenty-five thousand horse and eighty thousand 
infentry, all of one race. 

The second is of the Ara (Hada) race ; one of their princes 
died in the battle fought by prince Dara against Aurangzeb 
and Murad Ba^sh near the Chambal river on the fourth June, 
1656 [correctly 1658]. His name was Chatar Sal RSe — ^that 
is, ‘ Beauty of the Umbrella.’ * He is master of twenty thousand 
horse and fifty thousand infantry, all of one race. 

The third is the Rajah of Bomdela (Bundelah). This race 
is much given to robbery "and rebellion. One of these princes 
revolted against Shahjahan, and allowed a passage through 
his country to Prince Aurangzeb when marching against Prince 
Dara. He was beheaded the very day of the battle, as I have 
stated in my First Part (1. 186). It was the son of this rajah 

1 R&o Karan, Bhfirdyah. of akSaer (• ii. 287) ; he died 1077 H. 

(1666-67). The state is an offshoot hrom MSxwar. The word is Tnigt^Tr<>n for 
harani(kxMc\ 'generosity,* ‘liberality.’ 

2 Here again there is confusion, the termination not being S^ra (Persian), the 
root of ava^tan, ‘to adorn,’ but a HindQ title, derived from the Sanskrit. 
For Rao Sattar (or Chattar) Sal, Hada, see * M.-ul-U.,’ ii. 260. An anecdote of 
him was given a page or two back. 



THE RAVTELA-^^HINDV TRIBES 


435 


just spoken of who came to seek me out at San Thome to 
ask me to cure him of a disease he had (IL 235). His name 
was Dalpat Rao^ — ^that is, ‘The Honourable Army.’ He is 
at the head of fifteen thousand horse and of much infantry. 

The fourth is Rotella (Rautela). The prince of this country 
was called Ram Singh,® Rotella (Rautela), and his name means 
‘ God’s Lion.’ He died of an arrow wound inflicted by Prince 
Murad Ba^sh in the battle against Dara on the fourth June, 
1656 (1658), as I stated in my First Part (L 191). The tribe 
can place in the field as many as twenty-five thousand horse 
and seventy thousand infantry, all of one race. 

There are some twenty-seven rajahs of about the same 
strength as the last-mentioned, and I proceed to note some 
of the races they govern, some of them bearing also the same 
name. The greater number are in the service of the king, 
where they draw good honourable pay, equal to that of the 
Mahomedan generals and captains. 

Names of the [Hindu] Tribes. 

Chevan (Chohan), Pavar {Punwar), Badorie (Bhadauriyah), 
Bandare (? Bandhalgoti), Rambanci (Rdn^banst), Bach Gor 
{Bachhgaur), Botia {Bhurtiyah), Chandrahot {Chandrdwat) , 
Chasfadele (? Chandel), Benofal (Baitdphir), Solancy (Solmkhl), . 
Saran Brancy (Surajbansl), Sumbanci (Sombansl,) Jodo Bansy 
(Jadubanst), Metuvar.® All these names are Hindu. The 
other rajahs’ states, which remain unmentioned, are somewhat 

1 Manucci has already (I. 186) called him Champat. If the son was really 
Dalpat Rao, Bundelah (Rajah of Datiya), then his father was Subhkaran of 
Datiya, and not Champat, Bundelah, of the Dangiya Raj. But see note to 
Part I., 186. 

This must be Ram Singh, Rathor, son of Kurmsi (‘ Ma,asir-ul-Umara,* ii. 266), 
who was killed at SamOgarh. I cannot find * RaQtela ’ as a subdivision of the 
Rathors in Tod’s list (‘ Rajasthan,* i. 83, reprint of 1894). As Mr. Crooke 
suggests to me, the form seems to have in it a slight indication of inferiority 
or bastardy. Perhaps the proper form is Rawat-ela, the * Rfiwat ’ branch or 
division. 

8 Mr. Crooke has been kind enough to look over this list, and he suggests 

* Chandel ’ as a solution for ' Chasfadele ’ ; ' Bandhalgotl ’ is the only name 
approaching at all to ‘ Bandare * ; for ‘ Metuvar * I can find no equivalent. If it 
be a South Indian name, Mr, R. W. Frazer suggests it is either meda-war (Tamil), 

* hill people,’ or meti-wdr, * noble people.* 


28 — 2 



436 :HIND0 rajahs 

less powerful than these, and the other fifty are even less so 
than these last. 

Three of these rajahs became Mahomedans owing to the great 
promises made to them by Aurangzeb. But after they had been 
circumcised he seized their territories, and has given them 
the title of ‘ noble ’ in his kingdom ; but with it he leaves [62] 
them very little to live upon. All that he has given them 
is some offices in his household. To one he gave the super- 
intendence of the store-house (Almazem ) — ^that is, the man 
who supervises the making of carpets for use in the ro5rai 
household. Another he has placed over the goldsmiths and 
enamellers, who work at jewellery for the royal palace. The 
last received the appointment of charge over the perfumes and 
essences. This last man was a great friend of mine, and in 
secret was a drinker of wine. I have often heard his complaints, 
repenting of what he had done, saying he had turned himself 
into one of the king’s slaves. 

These three are not given any power by the king for fear 
that they might recant and return to Hindflism, and raise a 
revolt against the crown. This is what happened to Fid§.,e 
!^an when he was governor of Allahabad.^ He deceived a 
rajah by promises of making him a greater man than before. 
But when he was in his power, he kept him a prisoner and 
carried him away to the city of Labor, and there forced him 
to become a Mahomedan, ordering him to receive weekly 
one hundred strokes with a whip. The rajah, unable to stand 
this torture, fell ill, and I treated him for the illness and cured 
him without any charge. Afterwards I lent him one hundred 
and ten rupees, which he employed in his journey. For 
immediately afterwards he took to flight and sought shelter 
in his own country, and returned to Hinduism. Then he 
began incursions upon the king’s territory, and plundered as 
much as he could. He was, however, ungrateful so far as I 
was concerned, for he never recalled to mind the good turn I 
had done him. 

^ 1 do not find tha.t Fidfi,e KTaa n (A'gam KHi Sn. Kokah) ever served as Governor 
of AUabab&d. LSiior must be intended, as it is mentioned a line or two 
afterwards. 



437 


NAMES OF RAJAHS 


Usually these rajahs have such names as the following : 


Quesor Sing 

Kesar Singh 

Yellow Lion 

Ban Sing 

Bhao Singh 

"Wishing to be a Lion 

Gueret Sing 

Kirat Singh 

Lion’s Beauty 

Guesen Sing 

Kishan Singh 

Black Lion 

Bessen Sing 

Bishan Singh 

Lion’s "Whelp 

Bim Sing 

Bhim Singh 

Lion’s Strength 

Caliam Sing 

Kaliyan Singh 

Lively Lion 

Dal Sing 

Dal Singh 

Lion’s Army 

Sajan Sing 

Sujan Singh 

Experienced Lion 

Bam Sing 

Ram Singh 

God’s Lion 

Dalian Sing 

Daliyan Singh 

Adverse to Lions 


The others call themselves the lions of different idols. On 
the whole, it may be said of these rajahs that they are modest 
men and religious, keepers of their word; in that being very 
different from the Mahomedans [63], who treat as a joke the 
deception of other men in every possible way. 

The greater number of these rajahs dwell in the plains, where 
their lands bring them in many sorts of supplies. The land 
is cultivated by their vassals or subjects, who are called Rajputs 
— that is, ‘rajah’s son.’ They have no other occupation, 
knowing nothing but how to till the soil or take a part in 
warfare. For this reason the rajahs pay them only in land, 
which is given for them to cultivate as a means of subsistence, 
on condition that they keep horses and be ready to go out 
to fight when they are called upon. When they have assembled, 
the rajah joins them ; then, at the end of a twelvemonth, fresh 
men arrive from their home country, and the first levy returns 
home. They all conduct themselves in one manner. They 
all eat opium, and on the day of battle they swallow a double 
dose. They also give some to their horses to enable them 
to endure fatigue. They dress in yellow, dyeing their clothes 
that colour with saffron. Many of them wear gold armlets, 
so that, if killed, those finding the body may see to its cremation. 
The greater number are spearmen. 

When they draw near to the enemy, their musicians begin 
to sing songs in a loud voice, with a violin accompaniment, 
in praise of their courage. These musicians are also on horse- 
back and well armed, all drunk with opium, their eyes flaming 



438 


A rAjpVt battle-charge 


and red. In place of saying that they will slay, they say 
Me mcmche — ^that is, * We mean to die.’ Then, grasping their 
lances firmly, they throw themselves on the enemy like madmen. 
If by mischance the spear is broken, they draw the cattme 
(? kaUarl, or dagger), and blindly cut and stab at all they meet 
and never retreat, so that they either conquer or lose their 
lives. 

I have sometimes seen some of them so impatient that, on 
hearing the violins strike up, though the enemy was still far 
off, they rode out of their squadron, and, putting their horses 
to their full speed, galloped like madmen into the middle of 
the foemen, and there sacrificed their lives. When they till 
the ground they always hold their spear; and in the midst 
of the fields they are never without sword, shield, and dagger 
at their side. Thus equipped, they lay hold of their plough 
and urge on their oxen. 

There are other rajahs who live in mountains to the north, 
about one hundred leagues or so distant from the cities of 
Labor and Dihll. These mountains are on the boundaries of 
China, and in this expanse of country there are many rajahs, 
and the lands of some of them adjoin the Mogul realm and 
even pay him tribute. The chief of them is the Rajah of 
Serinaguey (Srinagar in Gafhwal), although he pays no tribute, 
because bis country is so strong and inaccessible. This is the 
man who cut off the noses of Shahjahan’s army (I. 147), and 
gave shelter to the prince SuljjSn Sulaim£n Shukoh, as told in 
my First Part (I. 277). 

Near Kashmir there are several other rajahs, of whom some 
also pay tribute ; but frequently they refuse to obey, for which 
reason war is made against them. One of them is Rajah Rup^ 
— ^that is, ‘ good-looking.’ He is at the head of twelve thousand 
cavalry and eighty thousand infantry. All the same, I call him 
a traitor and a thief for having broken his promise to Prince 
Dara, and carrying off a large sum of money given him to 
collect soldiers against Aurangreb, as may be seen in my First 
Part (I. 210). In one of the mountains, the nearest to Dihll, 
one of these rajahs pays one hundred and fifty rupees of 
’ Sarfip Singh in I. 210, and this seems correct. 



THE HIMALAYAS 


439 


tribute, besides some boat-loads of ice that he sends down 
by the Jamnah river during the hot season. This rajah asked 
Aurang^eb to exempt him from this money tribute, when he 
would undertake to send him every year enough ice for the 
whole city of Dihll, if he were empowered to sell it. But the 
king refused his consent for three reasons. The first was that 
much coin would be exported from his court, for everybody 
would buy. The second was that the rajah would become 
wealthy. The third was that he did not want anyone to use 
ice, except those to whom he should deign to accord such a 
favour.^ 

When travelling from Dihll towards LShor these high moun- 
tains are visible, all covered with snow throughout the year. 
Ice also is brought down from the hills nearest LShor ; it is 
brought to the governor by way of tribute, and comes down the 
river Ravi. The mountains begin in Pegu and are found as far 
as Kashmir, and thence to the river Indus, to Kabul, Bal^, 
and Tartary. The inhabitants of these mountains are® of an 
almost white complexion, eyes and nose small, and their speech 
different from that of the Mogul country and much similar to 
Chinese. 

In these mountain ranges, twenty-four days’ journey from 
the city of Patnah, is an absolute king called Botand (? Bhutan). 
He has in his territories much gold, perfect musk, rubies, and 
precious stones. For this merchandise some traders travel 
there, but they are few, for there are great hindrances from the 
many petty rajahs. They suspect the traders to be Mogul 
spies. When they reach their destination they pay the rajah a 
visit, making him a present of some small rarity, such as a 
bottle of rose-water, or a piece of fine cloth, or a morsel of 
sandal-wood, or other similar article, with whiqh he is con- 
tented. The travellers are then given great liberty, without 
any fear of robbers. The soil produces good food-supplies 

^ The Rajah intended is the ruler of Nshan or SirxnUr, in the outer hills, who 
still in the eighteenth century retained the nickname of Barfi R3,jah, or * Snow 
King,’ owing to his sending ice to the Dihli court. 

® Page 65 of the text is blank, and on page 66 the unfinished sentence is com- 
pleted, but in Portuguese instead of French. The text now is in Portuguese 
again. 



440 


BHUTAN HABITS AND CUSTOMS 


and delicious fruits, all cheap. Strangers are allowed to keep 
women in their houses, who act as slaves, and they may employ 
them as they please, without anyone interfering. When any 
foreigner dies the rajah seizes everything, and passes whatever 
order comes into his head. Some of the bodies he causes to be 
buried, others to be burnt, others to be cut into pieces. These 
last are thrown out into the open country as food for the birds 
of prej', or they are sent to the fields as sustenance for the 
serpents (boes), foxes, and wild beasts. Others will be thrown 
into the rivers, cut into pieces, as food for the fish. 

Such is the custom of that country, where the priests are 
much venerated. If these men desire to fayour anyone with 
the gift of a holy relic, they give him some of their own excre- 
ment. The recipients carry it with them hanging from the 
neck, placed in a little box of gold and silver in which it is 
preserved. It is their fond imagination that if they die 
with such filth hanging from their neck they will acquire 
salvation. 

It is through this country that lies the route to China, but it 
is a very long way, and the roads most hazardous fi-om the great 
mountains and many rivers. I state this on information given 
me by some Armenians and others who had been there, in- 
cluding two Jesuits, who came from China by this road. One 
was a Fleming and the other a German, with whom I had 
many a talk about this country. 

These rajahs \i.e., the Rajputs] are powerful and brave ; they 
preserve all ancient customs, are friendly to those who were 
their father’s friends, inimical to those who were their enemies, 
and although they are necessitous, none the less they do not 
refrain from observing the rules of their ancestors. The Mogul 
draws his profit from their barbarous ways, and out of policy 
reinforces them when it suits him, and employs them to destroy 
each other. If they were only united among themselves, the 
Rana and the R§.thors, Kachhwahahs and Bundelahs, they 
could easily expel the Mogul from Hindustan. As an example 
of what I have just said, there is the case of Rajah Jai Singh, 
whom a RajpQt soldier tried to kill by a spear -thrust, but 
missed him, all but a graze on the side. This RajpQt was a 



BOUNDARIES OF THE EMPIRE 


441 


soldier sent by the Rajah of the Botia (BhQrtiyah) race,i whose 
ancestors were at enmity with those of Jai Singh, and the feud 
had lasted for five hundred years. On the seizure of the soldier, 
he confessed what I have just recorded. Thus let the reader 
reflect on the way these Hindus keep up their ancient customs, 
but still more their religion. 

Having set forth all this grandeur and power of the Moguls, 
I will, with the reader’s permission, assert from what I have 
seen and tested, that to sweep it entirely away and occupy 
the whole empire nothing is required beyond a corps of thir ty 
thousand trusty European soldiers, led by competent com- 
manders, who would thereby easily acquire the glory of great 
conquerers. 

To add to the reader’s information, I will also state the 
length and breadth of this empire. The roads are not direct, 
owing to the forests and mountains and the interposition of 
territories belonging to the different rajahs and zatmndars,^ 
who allow no travellers to pass through, out of the fear they 
have of the Mogul. Nor are the roads there secure, for you 
would be robbed if you went by them. I will indicate the 
open and frequented roads, beginning with the east and ending 
on the west. 

From the port [67] of Madrasta (Madras) to Gulkandah the 
distance is two hundred and sixteen kos — ^that is, leagues ; from 
Gulkandah to Oramgabad (Aurangabad) it is one hundred and 
sixty-eight leagues ; from Aurangabad to Brampur (Burhanpur) 
it is seventy-two leagues ; from Burhanpur to Serong (Sironj) 
it is one hundred and forty-four leagues ; from Sironj to Agrah 
it is one hundred and forty-four leagues ; from Agrah to Dihll 
it is seventy -six leagues; from Dihll to the town of Sorend 
(Sihrind) it is eighty-four leagues; from Sihrind to the city 
of Labor it is one hundred and four leagues; from Uiior to 
Little Gujarat it is thirty-six leagues; from Little Gujarat to 
the Indus river it is one hundred and thirty-six leagues ; from 

1 The BhQrtiyah RajpQts, a clan of the SolanK race, are Rajahs of BikSner. 

2 Here and elsewhere (see, for instance, III. 68) Maniicci uses the word 
zamwdar in its then usual sense of a petty, semi-independent chief. The great 
Rajahs, even, were called zamlndSivs by the Mogul officials. 



442 


THE HILL RAJAHS 


the river Indus to the city of Paxor (Peshawar) it is thirty- 
six leagues; from Peshawar to Kabul it is one hundred and 
forty-four leagues; from Kabul to Cazenj (Gh azni), now in 
ruins, it is seventy-two leagues. At a distance of twenty leagues 
from Ghazni is the boundary of Qandahar, which belongs to 
the King of Persia. Here on this side end the dominions of 
the Mogul, and on the north side they touch the kingdom 
of the Usbeques (Uzbak). From this point as far as Ugullim 
(Hugll), which is in Bengal, there will be about the same 
number of leagues [? as from Madras], excluding the lands 
which adjoin the Axames (Asham, Assam). 

The width, beginning from Surat, which is on the south, 
until you reach the town of Burhanpur, is one hundred and 
sixty-eight leagues; from Burhanpur to Agrah it is two hundred 
and eighty-eight leagues; from Agrah towards the north, up 
to the boundary of the hill rajahs, of whom I have spoken, 
there may be one hundred and twenty leagues ; from the town 
of Tata (Tattah), which is on the south, as far as Multan, 
there are two hundred and seventy-eight leagues ; from Multan 
to Labor it is one hundred and seventy-eight leagues; from 
Multan to Labor it is one hundred and forty-four leagues; from 
Labor to the mountains of Kashmir it is one hundred and sixty 
leagues. The reader must remember that the kos or leagues of 
the Mogul country are different from the leagues of Europe, 
for ten European leagues make twelve of India, and this is the 
traveller’s ordinary day’s journey.^ 

Besides the above rajahs, I have not spoken of those on the 
farther side of the river Ganges, which is joined by the river 
Jamnah below the fortress of Allahabad, as stated in my 
Second Part (II. 58). A considerable number of these rajahs 
are powerful, and of the smaller sort there are many ; most of 
them are vassals of the Mogul. These last are under obligation 
to send to court the rarities produced in their country. Some 
send gavioens (sparrow-hawks), falcons, and other birds of prey, 
pretty birds, honey, and wax. With the last article they pre- 

1 If I league equals 3 miles, and 10 European leagues equal 12 Indian hos, 
then 12 kos equal 30 miles, or i kos equals 2J miles. Yule, 261, estimates 
Akbar’s kos at 2 miles 4 furlongs 158 yards. 



COURT REGULATIONS 


443 


pare a waxed cloth for the lining of tents and other uses in the 
royal household. They also make of it candles for the harem ; 
in these is mixed verdigris or vitriol, for certain reasons which 
I cannot mention. Other rajahs send fruits such as grow in 
their country, slaves (viloem), tigers, et cetera. 

Aurangzeb, as proof of his justness and to advertise his good 
deeds, sends out every day to walk through the principal square 
a fierce lion in the company of a goat that has been brought up 
alongside it from birth. This is to show that his decisions are 
just and equal, without any bias.^ This is done at court solely 
that the world may be notified of his justice. But I say, having 
experienced it, that at this day neither at court nor in any 
other part of his empire is there any justice ; no one thinks of 
anything but how to plunder. N or can the king find any remedy. 

Although he prides himself on his high sagacity and perfection 
in every point, Ja'far iQian did not fail to give him once a good 
lesson, just to let him understand how defective was his policy. 
I say that the Mir BakhshI, Roalacan (Ruh-uUah i^an},® 
general of cavalry, who is inferior in rank to the vizil {wazlr), 
one day, when presenting a petition to the king, advanced too 
near and took the position assigned to the wazlr. The king 
made no remark. Noticing this, JaTar Bbtan dissembled for 
that day. When next he came to court he placed one foot 
ferther forward than was allowed by the regulations. On 
seeing this, the king said to him it appeared he was oblivious 
of the general customs and regulations [68], having put himself 
in advance of the customary position. Ja'far Kban made the 
wise reply that wazlrs held the first place, and to show the 
difference between himself and the Mir BakhshI he was forced 
to step more forward. The king recognised the error he had 
made, and instead of reproving the general he made excuses to 

1 The allusion is to the usual laudatory phrase still used in reference to a 
just ruler : 

* Bher bakri ek ghat pani piwen ’ 

(Wolf and goat drink water together). 

® Ruhullah Khan, second son of Khalilullah Khan (* Ma,asir-ul-Umara,’ ii. 309). 
He was made second Bakhshi in the twenty-fourth year (i68q-8i), and died in 
1103 H, (1691-92), 



444 


THE TWO KARNATIKS—TANJOR 


his wag?r, sa3dng it should not recur, and the petition made to 
him was granted.' Thus was Ja'far SiSn still more respected 
at the court. 

All of these men spoken of above [the rajahs] maintain at 
the court their own agents, provided with considerable sums 
of money, and these men assist their employers whenever it 
is found necessary. 

There are also in this empire other lords who call themselves 
zamindars — ^that is, ‘ lords of land.’ Among them are many 
powerful men who could place in the field, more or less, forty 
thousand soldiers, matchlockmen, archers, and spearmen. 
Such men do not maintain cavalry : the greater number live 
in the midst of jungles, and these usually pay no revenue, 
unless it be taken by force of arms. At this day, taking the 
whole Mogul empire, these rajahs, great and petty, and the 
zatmndars, exceed five thousand in number. 

The reader should note that in the kingdoms of Bijapur and 
Gulkandah, of which Aurangzeb has now made himself master, 
there are two Karnatik provinces. In that of Bijapur there still 
survive some Hindu principalities. Those which lie on the 
shores of the sea near Cape Comoj (Comorin) and CeilaS 
(Ceylon) do not pay the Mogul any revenue. Besides these, 
there is the kingdom of Chetrepalj (Chhattrapati)^ and the 
Rajah of Taniaur (Ttnjor),^ who pays six millions of rupees 
every year. Up to the present time the Mogul has not con- 
quered them, owing to his wars with ShivS JI [*.e., the Mah- 
rattahs]. If Aurangzeb lives a few years longer he will over- 
come all of them ; it is his practice to denude them slowly of 
their wealth, then of their territory, finally of their life. Yet, 
with this experience, they do not preserve union so as to resist 
the Mogul strength. 

In the Karnatik subordinate to the kingdom of Gulkandah 

1 For ‘ Chetrepalj ’ I propose to read • Chhattrapati,’ • Lord of the Umbrella ’ ; 
but what potentate is intended I do not know. It may possibly be for ‘ Setupati,’ 

‘ Lord of the Bridge,’ an epithet of the Marava ruler of Ramnsd, close to 
Rameshwaiam. TSnjor (now a British district) lies between lat. 9° 50' and 
11“ 25' N., long. 78° 55' and 79° 55' E. It was a Mahrattah state, founded about 
1674 by Venka Ji, younger brother of Shiva Jl (‘ Madras Manual of Administra- 
tion,’ ii. 126 ; iii. 876). 



CHIEF FORTRESSES 


445 


there are sixty fortresses, among them one called Velur.^ 
When it was in the possession of Shiva JI, he made hence 
incursions into the surrounding territory, which belongs to the 
Mogul. This was done with the connivance of the Mogul 
generals, so as to prolong the period of conquest. These men 
wanted to become great nobles, and appropriate the wealth [of 
the country]. They menaced the princes and robbed the 
soldiers. The latter, ready to die of hunger, went over to the 
service of Shiva JI, and he thereby grew more powerful. 

This sort of thing is very common in the Mogul r6gime, as I 
have seen many a time, even without any understanding with 
the enemy. Let me give an example: Mahabat Ehan® was 
carr5ung on a pretended war against a rajah, when one of his 
engineers, called Mr. Vos, a Dutchman, said to him that, if 
permitted, he would so arrange that in a very short time he 
would conquer the enemy’s territory. Mahabat !Oan, dis- 
simulating, asked him if he received his pay, and whether the 
pillao he sent daily reached him or not. He replied, ‘Yes.’ 

‘ Then,’ said Mahabat ]San, ‘ go to your tent, and when I ask 
for it, you can give me advice.’ 

The inquiring reader will be pleased by my giving him an 
account of the fortresses the Mogul has in his empire, pointing 
out some of the principal ones. The first is the fortress of 
Dihll ; the second, that of Agrah ; the third is GwaliySr, where 
are detained the imprisoned princes, it being in the centre of 
the kingdom ; the fourth is the fortress of Kabul, on the frontier 
of Persia and of Bal^ ; the fifth is the fortress of Daulatabad, 
in the Dakhin ; the sixth, the fortress of Bijapur ; the seventh, 
the fortress of Bhagnagar,® the principal place in the Idngdom 
of Gulkandah, at a short league’s distance from the city ; the 
eighth is Rottas (Ruhtas), which is in the direction of Bengal [69]. 

These fortresses are commanded by selected and loyal 
officers, to whom the king gives a secret countersign, by 

1 Velar («ri, ‘ acacia-tree ■ : »>', 'village’), seventy-eight miles west of Madw 
(‘Madras Manual of Administration,’ iii. 974)* Mahrattans, 

^XlS^must be the Gulkandah officer Muhammad Ibrahim, afterwards made 
Mahabat TTh sn by ‘Alamgir (see ante, II. 228 , and ^so III. 154 )* 

3 Bhagnagar, the ancient name of ^aidarabad, in the Dakhin. 



446 


GOVERNORS OF FORTRESSES 


which only they are to make the place over when superseded 
by his orders, as I have myself seen. The king was in Kash- 
mir when he sent Multafat i^an to supersede Osdarcan 
(Hoshdar in the command of the Dihll fortress. He 

was allowed to enter with two other men, and when they met 
he produced the farm&n, to let him see it was a ro}^ order. 
Noticing that Hoshdar Eian hesitated, he said to him in a 
passion that he must quit the fortress at once. Having said 
this, Multafat Qian took him by the right hand and separated 
the thumb [from the fingers]. This was the sign that the 
king had given him, and thereupon he made over the keys. 

In the whole of Hindustan, from KSbul to the confines of 
Bengal, there may be one hundred fortresses ; and in the whole 
of the Dakhin, Bijapur, and Gulkandah, including both the 
Kamatiks, there are three hundred and eighty fortresses. 
With the one hundred already stated there are thus four 
hundred and eighty. To these the king sends faithful governors. 
Generally they are men in his service, being princes whose 
fidelity has been already tested. They are Rajputs, Sayyids, 
and Moguls. But Pathans are never allowed to hold any of 
these fortresses, for fear they may plot some treason, as they 
did to King Humayun. 

These governors may not leave the fortress during their 
term of office, nor allow any stranger to enter, save any known 
medical men when necessity requires. This happened to me 
once. When I arrived at Surat, the commander of the fort 
was ill, and sent for me. At the request of the governor of the 
city I went to see him. On entering the fort, they conducted 
me inside with my head covered, and the patient met me at 
the first gate. He made excuses that he had no permission 
from the king to allow me inside. It seems to me these orders 
apply to the fortresses near the sea, due to the fear they have 

1 See Part II., 6o. Hoshdar Khan^ son of Multafat was made Governor 
of Dihli in Aurangzeb’s fifth year (1662-63) (* Ma.I^ir-ul-Umara,’ iii. 944). I do 
not identify the Multafat Khan named in the text, unless it be meant that 
Hoshdar KMn was relieved by his own father in the charge of Dihli. The only 
other Multafat Kl^n I can find is ‘Abd-ul-Karim (finally, Amir ^5n), who held 
the above title from the thirty-third to the forty-fifth year (ibid., iii. 305, 306), 
but that is too late. 



STORY OF FORT OF THE SLAVES 


447 


of Europeans. In the Mogul territory I was not treated thus, 
for when I was called in I entered with full liberty; and to 
supersede such commanders the royal farmon is enough. 

These orders forbidding the commander of a fortress to 
come outside it were instituted by King Akbar, through an 
event that happened in his reign. On the road to Kabul, in 
among the mountains, is a small fortress called Colgolama 
(Qila‘h-i-gtulaman) — that is, ‘Fort of the Slaves.’ In that 
time the commander and the greater part of the inhabitants 
left the fortress to amuse themselves during the vintage. They 
left their houses in the charge of slaves. These men, seeing 
themselves masters, free from menaces and chastisement, con- 
spired together, shut the gates, and took possession of the 
fortress. They paid no attention to their masters’ demands. 
The latter assembled and attacked the gates, trying to get in. 
The slaves discharged cannon and muskets in a nonsensical 
way, without hurting anyone, for they did not know how to 
take aim with them. Nor did the friendly messages sent to 
them prevail; on the contrary, they became puffed up the 
more, marching to and fro on the walls wearing their masters’ 
clothes, and making mock of them. The masters were at their 
wits’ end what to do ; but an old woman, remembering the dis- 
position of such slaves, gave the masters good advice as to how 
to terrify them and make them open the gates. She said they 
must all do as she did. Before the day dawned all were to 
surround the fortress, and the old lady began to shout for them 
to open the gates, adding thousands of abusive words, and 
raising her hand, in which was a whip, threatened them. 
Everybody did the same. The slaves, seeing the implement 
with which they used to be chastised, opened the gates and 
threw themselves at their masters’ feet, begging pardon, and 
alleging silly reasons, throwing the blame upon one another. 
After this event the place was given the name that I have 
stated above [70]. 

Verily it produces desperation to be dependent on the men 
and women slaves of India. In them is no goodness ; they are 
full of malice, generally thieves, false, traitors, deniers, slothful, 
loquacious ; incapable of secrecy, devoid of love and fidelity, 



448 VEXATIOUS HABITS OF SERVANTS 

for ever complaining of their masters. Treat them tenderly as 
your children, and they behave the worse; and to get any 
work done you must act against them harshly, and make them 
do their duty by force. They serve you by fear of blows, and 
not from duty or love. Generally speaking, the free servants 
are just the same. 

The soldiers when on the march suffer much insolence and 
endure many disagreeables. The masters suffer out of necessity, 
from which cause they exercise patience, because, should any- 
one try to remedy matters, the servants leave him. In the case 
of a soldier, he would then have to look after his own horses, 
camels, tents, and cooking — an impossible thing. 

They tell the story in India that A§af Sian, the father-in- 
law of Shahjahan, a Persian by race, was seen one day dis- 
solved in tears. Those present asked the reason of so much 
sorrow, when he was so rich and powerful a nobleman. He 
replied that his tears were due to his suffering from the many 
insolences that Indian servants put upon his nation. I could 
write much upon this subject, since I have had experience of it 
through manyyears. To come to a conclusion with these demons, 
I recount a case that happened in my presence to a soldier, a 
neighbour of mine, called FSzil Beg. His servants, conspiring 
together, gave him great trouble, doing ever3dhing the contrary 
way to what he wanted solely to get him into a rage, by which 
they would have an opening for leaving him. Fazil Beg 
penetrated their designs, but concealed it owing to his need of 
them, not being able to obtain others on such an emergency. 
It being very hot weather, he left his chest exposed, when one 
of the men, to make him lose his temper, came up to him , 
abused him greatly, and spat upon him. Fa?il Beg seemed 
quite pleased, saying that it refreshed his constitution, and 
made out he had overlooked the impertinence, being in such 
a necessity. 

If any of these soldiers are in any degree well served, it is 
because they are accompanied by a wife and some negro 
women, with whom the servants have intrigues, and through 
this attraction follow him. They are otherwise reluctant to 
accompany a master on a campaign, because they undergo 



THE KAYATH caste 


449 


hunger on the road, and are interfered with by the enemy. 
Many a time food is worth three to four, or even eight to ten 
rupees a cera (ser), which is a current weight, and is of twenty- 
eight ounces.^ In the campaigns against Bijapur, Gulkandah, 
and Shiva JI, one ser weight sold at eighteen rupees, but this 
did not last many days. Meanwhile the soldiers are obliged 
to give the servant his food, and during the actual time of the 
king’s campaign against Shiva Ji one bullock’s load of grass 
was worth ten rupees ; and during all the wars of Aurangzeb 
there were high prices and plague. 

In the empire is another HindQ race called Kaet (Kayath), 
who are great scribes and arithmeticians, and through these 
arts they rule all the courts. Though they receive no high 
pay, they are still much cherished by the great for their good 
advice. These men are fond of alcohol, and make sacrifice 
with it to their idols. In the early morning they bathe their 
bodies, and almost naked, begin their prayers before the idol, 
near which they place their pen-and-ink box, with a bottle of 
the best liquor they can procure. During the ceremony, which 
usually lasts about an hour, they pour into the inkstand some 
drops of liquor with the right hand, and taking a little in the 
same hand, throw it upon the idol, and offer the pen-box to it, 
petitioning for the god’s aid through it. Such-like idols are 
small, and generally made of metal. 

In Shahjahan’s time a soldier went to draw his pay, and the 
official, who was a kayath, could not attend to him at once, as 
he was busy. The angry soldier threatened him, sa3dng he 
should have to smash his teeth with his sword. The official 
said nothing, and paid him ; then, jesting, said that with his 
pen he could do more than he with his sword. The sharp- 
witted scribe, to get his revenge for the menace, wrote in the 
book where was entered the soldier’s descriptive-roll that he 
had lost [71] two of his front teeth. For it is the practice in 
the Mogul country to write the names and personal marks of 
those who are employed. Some months elapsed, and the 

^ In Madras, to which I presume this description applies, there are two ser — 
the hacha^ of 9J ounces; and the pakka, of 2 pounds (32 ounces) ('Madras 
Manual of Administration,’ iii. 804}* 

VOL. II. 


29 



faujdArs and their ways 


4S0 

soldier appeared again for his pay. The clerk opened the 
book, and found by the description that he was not the man 
entitled to that pay, for he had two front teeth more than were 
recorded in the register of descriptive-rolls. The soldier 
was put to confusion; his protests and arguments were 
unavailing ; and seeing no other course if he would not lose 
his pay and his place, he was obliged to have two front 
teeth extracted to agree with the record, and in that way got 
his pay. 

Throughout the empire the king is obliged to maintain 
fosdars (Jauj iars}— th&i is, ‘ lords of an army ’ — ^for if he had no 
such officers no one would pay him either revenue or tribute. 
For the people of India never pay without being forced, and to 
collect half the total quantity of supplies that they are under 
obligation to pay to the crown, it is necessary to tie up the 
principal husbandmen. These latter collect with equally severe 
measures from the peasants. To obtain satisfaction of the de- 
mands made, when they find soft words and reasoning are of no 
use, they bind the men and give them a good beating. It is 
the peasants’ habit to go on refusing payment, asserting that 
they have no money. The chastisements and the instruments 
are very severe. They are also made to endure hunger and 
thirst. From time to time they pay a trifling instalment, and 
the punishments being renewed again and again, they begin to 
pay little by little, finding they are unable to endure so much 
torment. Many of them carry on their persons the sum that 
they owe, boimd in various parts. When against their will 
they find they have to pay, they draw forth a trifle, and declare 
they have no more. The punishment recommences ; then they 
feign death (as sometimes really happens), fall on the ground, 
turn up their eyes, and quiver with their hands and feet. But 
this trick secures them no compassion, for it is well known. 
They are bound to some tree, and once more are showered on 
them blows and corolados} The latter are applied with a well- 
twisted rope, in shape like an ox-tail, an inch in thickness and 
a fethom in length. With this instrument they flog on the 

1 This is, ^parently, a newly.comed word, equal to • ftorS-lashings ' ; from. 
kofi, a whip, or scourge (Platts, 86i). 



COLLECTION OF REVENUE 


451 

ribs with all their strength, and it encircles the whole body, 
making wheals an inch wide and breaking the skin. 

In this way, little by little, the peasants pay what they owe. 
This habit is much honoured among husbandmen — ^that is, 
never to pay readily ; and to undergo these torments and this 
disgrace is among them an honour. He who gets most blows 
and suffers the most is the most esteemed. If, perchance, the 
soil does not produce a crop, by reason of the r ain failing, they 
sell their sons and their cattle to meet what they are obliged to 
pay. For the king takes one moiety and leaves them the other. 

These fmjdars have to supervise the roads, and should any 
merchant or traveller be robbed in daylight, they are obliged to 
pay compensation. If robbed at night, it is the traveller’s fault 
for not having halted earlier, and he loses all, without his com- 
plaint being heard. 

In the days of ShShjahSn there vms at court an ambassador 
of the Grand Turk, who, on seeing this great harshness, said to 
the king that it seemed to him that much cruelty was thus 
inflicted on his subjects. The king replied ; * Do not imag i n p 
that these people are like those of Turkey. If I did not deal 
with them thus, they would never leave me a moment’s 
peace.’ 

It is quite true that if the common people here have four 
rupees, they are quite high and mighty and decline service. It 
is only when they have nothing to eat that they take service. 
They have no skill unless it is enforced on them by harsh treat- 
ment. It is for this reason that the Moguls call this population 
zolom purest (mlm-parasi ) — that is, ‘tyranny adorers.’ Some- 
times these faujdars commit excessive acts of oppression, which 
cause rebellion and bring on battles. If the villagers are 
defeated, everyone is killed that is met with, and their wives, 
sons, daughters, and cattle are carried off. The best-looking of 
these girls are presented to the king under the designation of 
rebels. Others they keep for themselves, and the rest are 
sold. 

At this time, when Aurangzeb is reigning, they do worse still. 
As the aged and wealthy offtcers and ofiicials die off, he has 
sent, and still sends, younger leaders. These, in their eagerness 

29 — 2 



453 


CHRISTIAN CONVERTS 


to become rich, plunder and act wrongfully. They bribe the 
waqi*ah-naV!s (official reporter) and the Miufiyah-navis (secret 
intelligencer), so that the king may never hear. 

In this way the people suffer, and those who are the most 
distant from the court suffer the most. Besides all 
inflictions they have other losses, for when the soldiery passes 
through they plunder ever 3 d:hing they can lay hands on — cattle, 
food-supplies, grass, straw ; they destroy houses to get firewood, 
and on the villagers’ heads they load their baggage, and by 
dint of blows force them to carry it. 

To me it seems that this is God’s chastisement, merited by 
their evil deeds. Never are they ready to listen to reason; they 
are all very troublesome, high and low, without shame, neither 
having the fear of God. The Hindus who turn [72] Mahome- 
dans are the worst of all ; these are ordinarily the most insolent, 
the greatest talkers, and held in no consideration. As for 
Europeans who come to India, they must arm themselves with 
great patience and prudence, for not a soul will speak the truth 
to them, this being the general habit of India. Although they 
are deceivers, selfish, contumacious, and unworthy of belief 
[themselves] , we are abhorred by the lower classes, who hold us 
to be impure, being themselves worse than pigs. 

It is now forty-eight years that I have been in India, yet 
never have I seen a Mahomedan become a Christian. But 1 
can say that many a Christian has.pretended to be a Mahomedan, 
some to get pay and allowances at the court, and others in con- 
nection with women or other unruliness. I noticed that no 
person of seriousness fell into such an error, as is shown by 
what happened to a Portuguese married in the city of Dihll. 
His name viras Antonio de Souza Sarafana, and he had a 
quarrel with the rest of his countrymen. They styled him a 
cuckold, and aggrieved at such talk, he went to his house, and, 
getting his sword, barbarously slew his wife and a baby girl that 
was still at the breast. The negro women of the house, seeing 
this slaughter, jumped over the walls and fled. Some of these 
women, feeling aggrieved, went and laid a complaint, of which 
the courts took cognisance. When he was taken into custody 
the relations of the wife petitioned the court for his execution. 
The court asked the criminal if he was willing to turn Mahome- 



MAHOMEDAN TRIBES 


4S3 


dan ; if so, he would be liberated without punishment. The 
Portuguese would not consent, and, firm in his purpose, went to 
his beheadal with courage and animation. I have seen on the 
Choromandal coast and in Bengal a few Malabaris and Bengalis, 
poverty-stricken Hindus, become Christians, but it was from 
compulsion of hunger, or to get married to some Christian ; 
even then they never refrained from Hindu practices. 

Since I have spoken of the noted Hindu princes, I will 
mention also the Mahomedan tribes who are vassals and tribu- 
taries of the Mogul throughout his kingdom. The Pathans 
might collect eighty thousand horse and much infantry. But 
they are scattered in different parts of the kingdom, and differ 
from the Pathans who live beyond the river [Indus] and to the 
west of it, about whom the Mogul has to be very careful, for at 
one time they claimed the crown. 

These [the Pathans] for the greater part serve as soldiers ; 
others are merchants ; and they resort to no other occupations. 
They are very avaricious and foolhardy. When they come to 
court they are well-clad and well-armed, caracoUing on fine 
horses richly caparisoned, posing as persons of some considera- 
tion, and followed by several servants borrowed or hired for the 
day. On reaching their house they divest themselves of all 
this finery, and, tying a scanty cloth round their loins and 
■wrapping a rag round their head, they take their seat on a mat, 
and live on quichire {kichn) — t.e., rice and lentils — or badly- 
cooked cow’s flesh of low quality, which is very abundant in 
the Mogul country and very cheap. In this manner they put 
by money and grow into merchants. They are very jealous 
about their women, are not very literate, fond of the chase and 
of dogs, dextrous with bows. They hate the Moguls so much 
that they will not intermarry "with them ; they are extremely 
pretentious, each one thinking himself greater than the rest, 
and decline to concede to others any superiority. 

In spite of these dissensions they are all of one race, descended 
from an ancient prince called Past6 (Pushtu).^ He had many 

1 The ‘Hai.at-i-Afgpni.’ by Hayat ^n. C.S.I. (p. S4) (translated by Henry 
Priestley, Bengal Civil Service ; Uhor, 1874), does not give much help. The 
author thinks Pushto conies from the name of a region rather than from that of a 
person. 



454 


SAYYIDS, SHEKHS 


sons — I notice there were six-and-thirty of them — ^who divided 
the kingdom at his death. It lay on the farther side of the 
Indus, towards the west. They proclaimed these as separate 
principalities, their descendants taking the name of their 
ancestor. One calls himself Issofzaj (Yusufeai) — ^that is, ‘ Son 
of Joseph’; others are Mahomedxaj (Muhammadxai), Iszai 
(TsSzai), Surina (? Suran-^el), Pane (Panni), Massuani(? Masan- 
^el), Coatro (? Kator-xai), Lody (Lodi).^ In this manner they 
entitle themselves after their ancient princes, and the name of 
Pathan has come down from the first prince, Past 6 . Their 
language differs from the speech of India. They follow the 
Mahomedan faith, yet there is a difference in their sects, for 
some venerate Muhammad, others ‘All, others ‘Usman, and 
others some other disciple of the false prophet [ 73 ]. 

There is another race called Sahjed (Sayyid), signifying a 
descendant of Muhammad. These men are venerated among 
Mahomedans ; these, too, are scattered in different parts of the 
empire. Their principal seat lies forty leagues distant from the 
city of Dihli, in the direction of Labor. The place is near the 
Jamnah river, where there are twelve villages called Barre 
(BSrhah).® These hold themselves to be fine soldiers, learned 
men, virtuous and saintly, as has been seen in my Second Part 
(II. 9 ). They can collect twelve thousand cavalry and a large 
number of infantry. 

There are others called Seczada (She^zadah), who are 
descended from the family of Muhammad, but very remote 
from the Sayyids. This race hold land, and also remain in 
service at the courts, great and petty ; they are verj' subtile, of 
great intelligence, very litigious, and great lawyers. Others 
become recluses and holy men, and by that false pretence gain 
a living. 

There is also another race called Baloche (Baloch), who dwell 
on the farther side of the river R5vl, near the city of MultSn, 
and as far as the confines of Persia. In this territory are many 

^ The doubtful names, as the nearest approximations, have been taken from 
Colonel J. Wolfe-Murray’s 'Dictionary of the PathSn Tribes’ (Calcutta, 1899). 

* The country of the BErhah Sayyids lies between Meerut and Sah^ranpur ; 
it is now in the Muzaffamagar district. 



BALOCH TRIBE, GHAKKARS 


455 


camels, which they bring for sale into the Mogul country. 
Usually they are expert camel-drivers, and serve everyone in 
that capacity. They wear long locks of hair, and are of a dark, 
ruddy complexion. During the march they sing as they ride 
their camels. These men never look for service as soldiers at 
the king’s court ; only a few of their superior men act as 
governors s.ndfaujdars near their own country. This race can 
place in the field fifteen thousand horse and much infantry. 
Within their own country they are good soldiers, and they 
prevented Prince Akbar from invading the Mogul realm at the 
time he was helped by Shah ‘Abbas.^ They are of the religion 
of the Moguls, and without a prince. 

On the other side of the Chinab river, on its northern s i de, 
and extending as far as the Indus, there is a race called Guaquer 
(Ghakkar). They are good soldiers, and many of them are in 
the king’s service. They are esteemed there, and at the court 
grow to be great nobles. During my time one of these was 
Hizetcan (Tzzat ^O^an),® who was governor of the city of Tafthah, 
where it happened that he was made prisoner and disgraced by 
a young lady, as will have been seen in my Second Part (II. 171). 
It is a tale told among the Moguls that the ancient chronicles 
show how Alexander the Great was given a great deal of 
trouble by this race when he crossed the Indus river. Their 
complexion is of a deep green-black ; they can place in the field 
twelve thousand horse, and they have no prince. 

There is another race called Gett (Jat), who are found a 
hundred leagues from LS.hor, where there is much jungle. 
They were ruled over by the man firom whom I removed the fiit, 
as will have been seen in my Second Part (II. 161), when I 
was living in the city of Labor. They were for ever plundering 
the king’s territory, and for this reason there is always a faujdcir 
ready to give assistance in any direction. These ofGicers some- 
times come to amicable terms with them, so as to live in peace 
and quiet ; and rel5nng on the word of trusted friends, they meet 
and entertain each other. 

^ * 'AbbSrS ' is a slip of the pen for ‘ SulaiinSn,* the former having died in 1667 
some fifteen or sixteen years before Prince Akbar sought refuge in Persia. 

^ *Izzat Khan was a Sayyid, and not a Ghakkar. 



456 


HOW A FAVJDAR was FOOLED 


The beheaded man from whom I extracted the fat had a 
great friendship with a rajah faujdar. The latter asked him to 
order his spies, of whom he had some that were very clever, 
to show him some of their tricks ; for he had heard marvellous 
tales about them. The order was issued. After the lapse of 
some days, there appeared at daybreak in front of the rajah’s 
tent a Jogi penitent seated on a tiger-skin, with flowing hair, 
a huge beard, his arms raised on high, having long twisted 
nails, his body smeared over with ashes. He seemed [74] a 
vision, such as may be seen in the pictures of Jogts or SaniyS^s. 
These men are greatly venerated by the Hindus. 

Holding him to be a saint, the whole army of the rajah 
thronged to see him. Lying flat on the ground, with their arms 
raised aloft in sign of worship, they drew close to him and asked 
what he desired of all that they could offer him. There he sat 
with the greatest gravity, his eyes lowered and his lips com- 
pletely shut. As the sun rose higher they brought him a dish 
of food, and wanted to feed him, just as you do an infant, seeing 
that his arms were useless. The man shut his mouth, and 
made- gestures that he did not want to eat. They sought 
methods to persuade him, sa5dng that they, too, would not be 
able to eat, and his ‘animals’ would have to suffer. These 
arguments were of no use. 

Then the rajah was informed, and at once he came on foot 
to greet the saintly man with many signs of worship, and when 
quite close, crossed his hands on his breast. All this was in 
the full heat of the sun. The rajah prayed him to have com- 
passion on him and his army. Should his petition not prevail, 
neither he nor his ‘ animals ’ could eat anything. Their idea was 
that they would be excommunicated if they did. The cunning 
cheat dissembled. Once more the rajah prayed that with his 
permission he might call his wives, who would cook food and 
give him to eat. The knave, on hearing these words, made 
a slight movement with the corner of his eye in sign of consent. 
At once the rajah sent for a tent, and caused all his women 
to appear. These did the faqtr great reverence, and in his 
presence prepared the food. The principal wife of the rajah as 
a sign of worship placed a morsel in his mouth, and he 



THE BHATl TRIBE 


457 


refused to eat more. Thus all were satisfied, and when night 
descended the Jogl disappeared. 

After some little time the two fidends met again, and the 
rajah made a complaint. He said that the spies had not 
demonstrated their ability. Then that spy, who was standing by 
clad as a soldier and armed, said : ‘ I am the man to whom your 
wife gave to eat,’ and told the whole of what had passed. The 
rajah was in astonishment, praying them another time not to 
play him such tricks. I might recount many similar cases ; but 
as it seems to me, you may discover from this instance the 
finesse of the Indian people, and how they are able to pretend. 
That rebel was lord over eight thousand very active cavalry, 
who were great plunderers. There comes to my memory now 
an affair that happened in Hindustan. 

There were in the field two rajahs ready to give battle. At 
that time there appeared a physician, who said to one of the 
rajahs that he possessed a drug by which, if taken by his soldiers, 
he would win the battle. The rajah was persuaded, and the whole 
army was purged. The opposing rajah heard of this, and sent 
men to win over the physician by handsome presents, imagining 
that the victory was in his control. On arriving he purged 
everybody, and the same day the rival force made an attack 
and routed them, seeing they were all occupied with their 
necessities. The fugitive rajah said the medicine was good, but 
as his opponent had taken it first, therefore he had conquered. 
These Rajputs are very easy of credence in regard to what 
doctors, Brahmans, or astrologers say, for they are quite 
illiterate. 

There is another race called Battj (Bhatl),^ who can place in 
the field six thousand cavalry and much infentry. They live 
between the town of Sihrind and Labor, and they enter the 
faujdar’s service on small pay. Their dwellings are in the huge 
jungles called Laqui Janquel (LakhI Jangal),^ surrounded by 

1 Bhatti or BhSlti, the modem representative of the ancient jadobansi clan. 
The State of Jaisulmer belongs to them, and they are found largely in the Mth<w 
State of Bikaner. From them the Sirsa district, including a portion of Hisar, is 
known as uhatianah. In 1881 they were about 350,000 in number (Ibbetson, 
• Panjab Ethnology,' 1883, paragraph 448). The Lakhi Jungle was a well-known 
eighteenth-century name for that part of the country. It is marked in the map 



458 


MEWATIS, MlNAHS, BAURIAS 


various rivers. These men are great thieves and plunderers of the 
roads and villages. When the king wants to punish any officer 
he sends him to this region, where he suffers a great deal and 
gains no profit at all 

There is also another tribe called Mevattj (MewStl). They 
are good horsemen, also enterprising thieves [75] and robbers. 
Nowadays they have no cavalry, because King ShahjahSn called 
upon the Rajah Jai Singh to destroy them, and said he would 
make him a present of the lands he conquered. He, like a 
brave and prudent captain, soon overcame them. They live 
among hills ; the chief men he beheaded, disarmed the rest, and 
forced them to live in the open country. The son of their chief 
man was made a eunuch by Shahjahan. It was he who com- 
manded at Bhakkar, as spoken of in my First Part (I. 219, 225, 
262). He was called !|^wajah Basant; and he remained 
faithful to Prince Dara at the fortress of Bhakkar. When 
I passed through this region I saw upon the hills many villages, 
which were not then destroyed. The greater part of this tribe 
lives upon robbery. 

There are also two other small Hindu tribes called Myne 
(? Mlnahy and Torj (? Bauria),^ who are highly renowned as 
great and adventurous thieves. One of them, in the very 
presence of Rajah Jai Singh, took off the turban of Shiva JI 
when asleep ; this was in the time of the war, and there was 
fear of losing your life. Once when I was living in Labor, 
(it was during the governorship of Fida,e Kb an) fifteen thieves 
of this tribe were caught They had robbed a house at 
midnight ; they were seized and sentenced to death. When 
the officers of justice were taking them to be executed in front 
of that very house, they passed in front of my door. There was 
a great noise of drums, and a great crowd of curious idlers 
following. Hearing this row, I came forth, and saw that the 


to Francklin’s *Shah Aulam,’ I79S» bounded on the north by the Sutlaj, and on 
the east by a line from LudhiSnah to Sunam. The southern and western limits 
are less definite. The Bhati country is immediately to the south of it. 

^ For Mina, see W. Crooke, ‘Tribes and Castes of the North-West 
Provinces,’ iii. 485 — ^their home is in Mewfit; and for Bfiwariya (Bauria), ibiA^^ 
,i. 228. Both are well-known thieving tribes to day. 



BlDARlS, BVNDELAHS, PURBIYAHS 459 

first thief was a youth of some five-and-twenty years. He went 
on his way in great confidence, singing in a loud voice, and 
giving thanks to God for that he had made his life a sacrifice 
in the occupation he was brought up to, without having to 
change his pursuits. Seeing me while still continuing his song, 
he bowed his head as a mark of politeness. I remarked that 
the last of them was a Baminy (a Banya), whom they c arri e d 
along by force, because he had been consenting to the conceal- 
ment in his house of the stolen goods. 

Throughout the kingdom there are many of these thieves, 
and in the army they find stealing very easy, carrying off horses 
and camels. For this reason many soldiers place iron chains 
on these animals’ feet, fastened by padlocks to make them 
secure. Along with the armies there march privileged and 
recognised thieves, called Bederia (Bldari) these are the first 
to invade the enemy’s territory, where they plunder everything 
they find. The handsomest items are reserved for the general ; 
the rest they sell on their own account. Prince Shah ‘Alarn, 
when he was within the territories of Shiva JI, near Goa, had in 
his army seven thousand such, whose orders were to ravage the 
lands of Bardes because of my non-return, as I have stated in 
my Second Part (II. 220). In the bazars and booths of these 
Bldarls is found every kind of food-supply — ^vegetables, fruits, 
and other products, all purloined from the enemy’s territory. 

In these armies the foot soldiers are commonly Rajputs, the 
greater number being of the Bundelah tribe or Purbiyahs from 
the direction of Allahabad. They are matchlockmen and 
archers, and also serve to look after the baggage. They are 
faithful to their employers, but great thieves on the march, 
plundering supplies of food and wood for their cooking fires. 
For this they are punished and bound two and two upon camels, 
their noses pierced by arrows, and paraded throughout the 
camp, so that they may be seen and terror be inspired. All 
the same, they continue to pilfer and are very insolent, paying 
respect to no one. If anyone has a dispute with one of them, 

1 These Bidarx (from Bidar?), sometimes confounded vdth the Pindharis, are 
mentioned by Bhim Sen in his ‘ Nns^ah-i-Dilkusha,’ British Museum, Oriental 
MS., No. 23, fol. 156b, and by other writers. 



460 


A CLEVER ENVOY TO PERSIA 


they congregate in great numbers, and the adversary of their 
tribesman is severely beaten and left half dead. This I have 
seen many times. Some of them would be going along when, 
seeing some such wrangle, they would draw near to give help, 
and would kindly beat the disputant vnth their sticks ; or if not 
able to do so owing to their opponents’ numbers, would throw 
stones at them, give them a lot of abuse, and then resume their 
route [76]. 

It seems to me I have dwelt sufficiently on the habits and 
customs of this Hindustan; but I have observed that all the 
great men are fond of amusing themselves with chess-playing, by 
which, as they say, they learn to govern, place and displace, give 
and take, with discretion, to the glory and gain of their projects. 

I will relate a story about this game. The king Jahangir 
sent an ambassador to the King of Persia, Shah Xaxefi (Shah 
Safi). His name was Cancana (Khan !^anan), a man 
liberal-minded and of good judgment. This man was much 
esteemed by the King of Persia for his good conversation and 
the generous actions he beheld him do. The envoy fancied he 
could play well this game of chess ; on his part, the King of 
Persia thought the same. The two played together on the 
condition that the loser should bray like an ass. The game 
lasted three days, and in the end the ambassador lost it, and he 
was obliged to carry out his engagement. This he did with 
such vigour that the whole court was greatly satisfied. He 
began in this way ; ‘ I left the court of my emperor at such 
and such a time, and I was four months on the journey, until 
I arrived on the frontier of Your Majesty’s kingdom, and 
descending from the mountains of Qandahar, 1 came to a plain 
where there was nothing but one ass graadng. My servant ran 
to him, and as a joke said to him that the asinine race v^as 
extinct. Overcome at such sad news, he began to lift his 
head, and wailing, said in a loud voice: “Ay, ay, ay.’’ The 
servant, taking compassion upon him, said that one she-ass was 
left for him. Thereby consoled, he said in a low voice three 
times : “ Bom, bom, bom.’’ ’ Thus did he carry out his 
promise, and many present while he was talking supposed that 
he was telling some anecdote. 



DECISION OF COMPLAINTS 


461 


This king inquired from SiSn i^anan in what estimation 
he held him. He replied that he admitted him to be the 
greatest king in the world. The king retorted that by this 
statement he confessed him to be greater than his own king, 
i^han !|£hanan then said that there was a difference, for his 
king was God upon earth. This the Mogul does consider 
himself to be, not having any powerful king near him to prove 
to him the existence of greater majesty than his own. 

In the year one thousand six hundred and eighty-nine there 
came an ambassador^ from the Grand Seignor to ask help in 
money from Aurangzeb, explaining to him the danger to 
which his king was exposed from the armies of the Christians. 
Aurangzeb sent him nine lakhs of rupees, making excuses for 
giving no greater help. For he, too, was occupied against the 
infidel and rebellious Shiva Ji. The arrival of this ambassador 
gave an idea of the strength of the European nations ; for the 
people of India supposed that Europeans live on islands, and 
that it is only on the sea they know how to fight. No effect 
had been produced by the accounts given them of various 
battles which had happened in Europe. After the coming of 
this ambassador they recognised that they had been told the 
truth on this head. Aurangzeb was forced to admit that with- 
out a doubt the strength of the Europeans was greater than that 
of the Turk, who is conceded to be the most powerful and most 
valiant king among the Mahomedans. 

There now remains something to be said on the Mogul mode 
of government. I have already stated that the king holds 
public audience in the ‘Am-Kha? (Hall of Audience), and there 
it is usual for aggrieved persons to appear and make complaint. 
Some men demand punishment for murderers, others complain 
of injustice and violence or other such-like wrongful acts. To 
show his equity, power, and greatness, the king ordains with 
arrogance, and in few words, that the thieves be beheaded, 
that the governors and faujdars compensate the plundered 

1 Alimad Aqa, envoy of the Qaisar of Rum, Nadar Be, envoy from the w^H 
of Bu^arS, and 'Abd-ur-raljim Beg, sent by the Hakim of Kash^r, were 
presented early in the thirty-fourth year, iioi H. (end of 1689 or early in 1690) 
(‘ Ma,asir-i-*AlamgIri,' p. 337). 



462 


POMPOUS INEFFECTUAL ORDERS 


travellers, and return to court themselves to render an account 
of their bad government. In some cases he announces that 
there is no pardon for the trangressor ; in others he orders the 
facts to be investigated and a report made to him. To 
similar complaints he gives similar answers. This is merely 
to console, and as a proof that he is no consenting party to 
injustice. 

I will give [77] as an example the case of some Arab 
merchants, who came to court to complain that on their 
Yoysige with some Arab horses from Masqat to India, when 
about the latitude of Surat, some Farangl pirates had robbed 
them. Without another question the king ordered a letter to 
be sent forthwith to the governor of that port, ordering him 
at once to bind the Farangis, and send them to court to be 
punished. By these words he did the utmost that he could 
do. For the governor of Surat was unable to seize the thieves, 
nor could he send them to court. It is the habit of these kings 
to talk like this as a demonstration that they do not recognise 
any other power than their own. 

Usually there is some rebellion of the rajahs and zammdars 
going on in the Mogul kingdom. When the king is informed, 
he issues in public an order that the governors and faujdcirs be 
written to directing that they must assemble, destroy the rebels, 
and send their heads to court. If their forces are insufficient, 
let them report it, that he may send them troops to overcome 
the rebels, and eject them from the kingdom. At other times 
he will order the rebel to be sent in alive or dead, or else 
the governor must send his head (such orders are very easy 
to give and very difficult to execute). 

After all these orders have been given, he retires to the 
gousal cana (ghusal-Mtanah), the place for second audience and 
counsel. Here he gives other secret orders as to what is to be 
done. The officials control proceedings, without the king being 
able to inspect everything that is done, owing to his multi- 
tudinous occupations. There can be no doubt that if this 
king were well served many things could be done in these 
regions. 

Ghusal-MldHuh means properly * bathing-house, limpidity, or 



PALACES AND GARDENS: A STORY 


463 


purity.’ Herein are good counsels given and excellent sen- 
tences, and thence just orders are sent forth. It is a privileged 
and ordered place. There are in the empire three principal 
im perial abodes ; the most ancient is at Dihll, the second at 
Agrah, the third at Labor. At each there is a great bastion, 
named the Xaaburg (Shah-buij), which means ‘ Royal Bastion.’ 
They are domed, and have architectural adornments of curious 
enamel work, with many precious stones. Here the king holds 
many audiences for selected persons, and from it he views the 
elephant fights and diverts himself with them. 

All these palaces are full of gardens with running water, 
which fl[ows in channels into reservoirs of stone, jasper, and 
marble. In all the rooms and halls of these palaces there are 
ordinarily fountains or reservoirs of the same stone of propor- 
tionate size. In the gardens of these palaces there are always 
flowers according to the season. There are no large fruit-trees 
of any sort, in order not to hinder the delight of an open view. 
In these palaces are seats and private rooms, some of which 
are in the midst of the running water. In the water are many 
fish for delight. Other rooms are ornamented with large 
mirrors, and seem to be made all of crystal. 

In the royal palaces the king takes rest wherever it pleases 
him. In spite of his being well guarded, he still changes the 
place at various times for fear of any treachery. Round these 
palarftg or cities are many royal gardens for recreation, where 
are grown many kinds of fruit and flowers, chiefly roses, from 
which are distilled essences for the royal household. 

I will tell a story of what happened in one of these gardens. 
It was situated in front of the royal palace at Labor, and was 
called Delcuxao (Dil-kusha),^ which signifies ‘Open Heart.’ 
To it went for recreation twelve officials, and in lightness of 
heart, drunk as they were, they sent out in search of twelve 
women. One by one eleven appeared, and one man was left 
without a lady. As the sun was setting, there appeared one 

1 'History of Labor, ’ by Synd Mahomed Latif. 250: ‘The garden of Nflr 
Jahan, across the Ravi (in Jahangir's time caUed Diiawez or Dilkusha). where 
exists the mausoleum of that Emperor.* The place is generally known as 
Shahdarah. 



464 


COURT MANNERS. PRESENTS 


at the entrance of the garden, who walked most gracefully. 
She was very lovely and well dressed, so that she roused envy 
in the whole company. Drawing near to him to whom she 
was allotted, who had come forward to greet her, she perceived 
it was her husband! [78] Vigorously hastening her pace, 
and with demonstrations of rage, she fell upon him, tore his 
clothes, beat and abused him, and said he must have lost 
his way out walking; the company he found himself in was 
not such as suited a person of gravity. She dragged him away 
and took him home, making him out the sinner, although she 
was an adulteress herself. 

I noticed that when vassals are in the royal presence they 
feign to be timid and afraid of His Majesty. These gestures 
please him, they being the custom. The combats and conquests 
made by both ancient and modern Mogul kings, it is to be 
noted, have for the major part been won rather by deceit 
and false oaths than by force of arms. Never does the Mogul 
attack any stronghold or give battle unless he is secure of 
having some traitor to help him. 

In addition to the robes of honour, the elephants, horses, arms, 
et cetera, which the Mogul confers as gifts on his vassals, as 
I have already said, he has also other favours for the greater 
men at his court or in the empire. Once every year he confers 
a that is, ‘protection from the rain’; it is a cape 

of very fine broadcloth. The greatest honour that the king 
can do to one of these nobles is to marry him to some relation 
of the queens and princesses. Similarly, as a proof that he 
holds any person in high estimation, he takes off from his 
body his upper coat and makes the man put it on in his 
presence, to signify that he loves him as he does his own 
person.® In spite of all these condescensions, Aurangzeb 
never hesitated to take the life of Rajah Jai Singh and the 
others, as I have seen ; and through this policy of affection 
he continues to destroy. 

* This gift of a hSrani outfit for the riuns appears, for instance, over and over 
again in Dsnidunand ]^n’s ‘BafiSdur-Shah-namah.’ period 1707-10. 

* This is the malbits-i-Mfit, * special worn clothes, ' a kind of gift of which there 
are many recorded instances. 



REGULATIONS FOR HAREM 


465 


For this conduct there is an ancient regulation, which they 
keep secret and with which they amuse themselves. In it are 
laid down various methods by which kings and princes ought to 
govern. He imparts these rules to his trusted eunuchs and 
others, who conduct themselves by them in regard to the court 
officials. Of this I will give an example which happened in the 
army of my prince. Atax Can (Atash i^an), captain of a select 
force, had the charge of keeping order in the camp, more 
especially round the royal enclosure. One day he came very 
near to the gate of the seraglio which was in the 

rear of the principal gateway of the court, and wished to 
enforce new orders that were not usual at that place. Seeing 
this, the eunuchs, gatekeepers, and Kashmiri women servants 
assailed him by throwing stones, pestles, mallets, shoes, tent- 
pegs, pots for porridge, and saucepans, dislodging him and 
all his soldiers. He made complaint to the prince of the 
affront he had received, declaring that what he had done 
followed the regulations of the royal court. To this the prince 
replied with much softness and quietude, sapng that he was 
not well acquainted with the royal customs, according to which 
the men of the militia had no concern with the maial gate- 
way, which was in the charge of the eunuchs. 

In his reign Aurangzeb gave an order that every prince must 
come to audience only on the days he had fixed. The cause 
of these orders was that in one thousand six hundred and 
eighty (1680), at the city of Ajmer, Shah *Alam was going 
to audience. Close to a bridge he saw the train of A'gam Tara 
rushing in great haste in the hope of passing over first, and 
fully resolved on resistance if they met anyone. Sh^h ‘Alam, 
from prudence or timidity, seized his horse’s rein and drew 
up, placing his hand on his dagger to show his people that 
he was ready if attacked. He also ordered [79] his people 
to halt and yield free passage to his brother, A‘zam Tara. 
The latter, taking no notice of him, with much haughtiness 
and ma king his horse curvet, passed the first without paying 
any attention or civility to his elder brother. Owing to this 
the king issued the order stated above, so that there might 
be no outbreak at the court. 


VOL. II. 


30 



466 


TURBULENCE OF KING'S SONS 


For this reason, when the king sends one prince to any 
province to supersede another, one goes by one route and 
the other issues forth by another, escorted by court mace- 
bearers with gold maces. Great care is taken that they do 
not encounter each other, in order to avoid any mishap or 
any fresh outbreak. This is the way he deals with these 
princes. It is by the respect and dread that they have one 
for the other that the old man has managed to go on reigning ; 
and if God grant me life, I will record the end of Aurangzeb 
and the beginning of another reign. 

Upon the day of the affair above referred to, Shah ‘Alam 
entered his father’s audience followed by so many soldiers, 
that the doorkeepers sought to hinder the entrance of so 
many men. In their efforts, involving the use of their sticks, 
one of them touched the shield of Shah ‘Alam. Smiling and 
slowly turning his head, he ordered them to give the door- 
keepers five thousand rupees in proof of his own prudence and 
generosity, and of the respect in which he held the servants 
of his father. 

I will give a case which occurred at Aurangzeb’s court in the 
year one thousand six hundred and ninety-seven (1697).^ The 
foster-brother of Prince Kam Ba^sh treacherously slew one of 
the king’s eunuchs with an arrow. On hearing of this act, the 
king ordered the man to be seized ; and when the foster-brother 
knew of the royal order, he appealed to the prince. The latter 
took him to audience in his train, they clasping each other by 
the hand. The prince said to the king that first his life must be 
sacrificed before he allowed his foster-brother to be touched. 
Enraged at seeing such public imprudence and wrongful attitude, 
Aurangzeb ordered the man to be carefully taken out of the 
prince’s hands. On this being attempted, the prince laid hold 
of his dagger and menaced anyone who approached, saying 
that he would slay him. The plausing disciples of Aurangzeb 
by honeyed words and false asseverations made him sheath 

I This inddent is given in the ‘Ma,agir-i-*jtlamgiil,’ 398-400, with slightly 
more detail. The matter began with an attempt to murder YSqQt, one of KS.m 
Bath's eunuchs, on the i8th JamadSi II., iiio H. (December 22, 1698). The 
foster-brother was supposed to be the instigator. 



PIGEONS AS MESSENGERS 


467 


his ds^ger and deliver up his foster-brother, supposing the 
latter’s life to be safe. The king ordered the prince and his 
foster-brother to be arrested; but on the petition of 'Ddepurl, 
his mother, they were released. In the year [one thousand 
and] seven hundred (1700) the king granted KSm Ba^sh 
the province of Gulkandah for his allowances, he re maining 
present at court. 

As I have said that the Moguls rear pigeons for amusement 
(I. 65), it is necessary for me to inform the reader how they 
employ these pigeons to give intelligence if the king leaves 
his house or comes into the public hall to hold audience. 
Let the reader be aware, then, that these nobles are very 
pleased not to have to move from home uselessly. Many have 
their dwellings far from the royal palace, about a league away. 
They order their retinue to be kept in readiness, first of all 
having sent to court a servant with two pigeons of different 
colours. 

If the king leaves his house or holds audience, the noble’s 
servant releases one of these pigeons at court, and by reaching its 
home it serves as a messenger. If it is the one that denotes the 
king’s leaving home or sitting in audience, the noble at once rides 
with his cavalcade in all haste to be present, as is his duty. If 
the other comes, it notifies the contrary : the retinue are dis- 
missed, and the master takes his ease at home. 

[80]^ In the year one thousand six hundred and ninety-four 
(1694), when Aurangzeb was in the kingdom of Bijapur, he 
fell ill of diarrhoea, so that he was unable to come out to hold 
audience; and he became so weak that he fainted several 
times, from which cause it was spread about in the camp 
that Aurangzeb was dead. A‘gam Tara, who was there, wished 
to profit by the occasion; and assuming the news was true, 
he mounted his horse, and with all his armed force came to 
attack his father’s enclosure. He ordered his men to surround 
the royal tents. He then tried with great determination to 
force an entrance, intending to suffocate his father in case 
he should not be dead. He wanted to crown himself king. 
But it did not fall out as he desired; for Bahadur S^n, 
^ P, 80 is an interpolated leaf, of which the other side (p. 81) is blank. 

30—2 



468 A‘ZAM TArA SLIGHTS SHAH 'ALAM 

learning that he was advancing on the court, being himself 
nearer, came out at once with all his cavalry, and reached 
the spot just as A'zam Tara was going into the tents. Taking 
him by the hand, he said that he was disobesdng the roj^ 
orders by wishing to enter without being sent for by his father. 
With prudence, but showing himself resolute and urging good 
reasons, he made the prince understand that he would not 
be allowed to advance further. He gave him assurance that 
the king was not dead, and he would himself give a report 
to the king of his arrival to pay him a visit, and would get 
him called inside. This he did, and the king was found to 
be very weak. The prince counselled him as to the necessity 
of showing his royal person to pacify the army, which had 
begun a mutiny. Thus the king coming forth for a moment 
or two, the music played as a signal he was holding audience. 
This allayed the uproar going on throughout the camp, robbery, 
murder, and revolt having already begun. After this affair, 
Aurangzeb ordered this prince to pitch his camp at a distance 
of some leagues, and up to this day the same practice is 
maintained. 

[P. 8i is blank.] 

[79 concluded] It is necessary for the reader to be aware 
that these Moguls, admitting that they profess the Mahomedan 
religion, do not fail at the same time to retain in their habits 
certain Hindu practices, such as [82] offering up victims on any 
occasion when they desire to do some work or undertake a 
journey. Not to be open to reproof, they do this under the 
title of executing justice. This happened when Aurangzeb 
wanted to leave Aurangabad to wage war against the Kings 
of Bijapur and Gulkandah. More than six days before his 
march began he sent orders to kill on the route that he was 
about to travel eighty men, under the name of infidels and 
non-observers of the Mahomedan religion. He ordered them 
to be placed in a row with hands bound and in a kneeling position, 
then their heads were cut off one by one. It was observed that 
among them all, one dead body after six days remained on its 
knees as if just decapitated ; the others lay on the ground at 
the mercy of animals. The reason that one only among so 



XXV. Mir Jumlah. 


Vol. //. 


To face page 468. 




STORY OF IBRAHIM BIN ADHAM 


469 

many remained upright on its knees without falling like the rest, 
granting that it was inflated and decayed like the others, I 
leave for the consideration of the reader. As for me, it seems 
possible to suppose that, out of fear and before they could cut 
off his head, this victim was stupefied at seeing the others 
beheaded and thus became petrified. 

They also maintain some observances which have in them- 
selves some human morality. Thus was it with the King of 
Balkh, called Sultan Ebraim Addam (Ibrahim Adham),i who 
had a natural inclination to refinement. Thus, when he 
wished to sleep it was necessary to fill his room with flowers. 
Once it happened that, wishing to repose, in conformity with 
his usual habit, he ordered one of his women servants to knead 
his body. During this process it happened that he fell asleep ; 
the servant also slumbered, and leant her head on the side of 
the bed. This act roused the king, and in a great rage he 
ordered the eunuchs to flog the said servant for her temerity in 
propping her head on the royal bedstead. He had no mercy 
for the accident, and at once the eunuchs set to work to 
execute the king’s orders. Instead of weeping and imploring 
pardon, the woman was laughing. On perceiving this, the 
king was curious to know what motive she had for laughing, 
when, on the contrary, by the force and violence of the eunuchs’ 
blows, it would seem she ought to be crying. To his question 
she replied that it was because he had ordered her to be beaten ; 
for in her judgment, if to have leant her head a little moment 
on the royal bed, where the perfumes induced slumber, merited 
her undergoing such punishment even for the little time she 
had rested herself, what did His Majesty not deserve for 
having slept all his life in such a bed ? Influenced by such a 
reproach, the king became a little thoughtful, and at once tore 
his raiment, renounced his queen and his son, and went off into 
a wild country to live as a faqir. A fine reproof! for many is 

^ Ibrahim (son of) Adham was a king of BalUi, who became a darvesh, and 
died between 875 and 880 (Beale, ‘Dictionary of Oriental Biography,* 171). 
There is a biography of him, with many anecdotes, in * Tadhkiratu’l-Awliya’ of 
Farid-ud-din ‘Attar, edition R. A. Nicholson, 1905, pp. 85-106; but I do not find 
in it Manucci’s story. 



470 


STORY OF BIKRAMAjIT 


the one who condemns his neighbour’s little failings without 
considering the great defects he has within himself. 

Although the nature of the Hindus is ordinarily inclined to 
do evil, there have not been wanting at times some who have 
been most humane and well provided with reason. Such was 
the King Biguer Magid (Bikramajlt). Desiring to see his 
kingdom increase and merchants frequent the country, he 
directed that an3?thing the traders could not sell during market- 
time should be bought by his major-domo. It happened once 
that a trader brought, among other rarities, an image repre- 
senting Misfortune ; he sold everything except this figure. The 
king’s major-domo, following the orders received from his 
master, bought it and sent the merchant away. He stored 
the image along with the other goods, and reported the matter 
to the king. 

Being superstitious, the king did not fail to be affected by 
such a purchase. However, he said nothing about it. He 
cared more about keeping his word than about the super- 
titious presentiments aroused in him by the purchase. The 
Hindus assert, as a moral and politic lesson, that the figure of 
Wealth appeared to the king and complained to him that she 
could no longer stay, being unable to dwell where [83] Misfor- 
tune was. After much discussion, the king agreed that Wealth 
might withdraw herself, rather than that he should break his 
word. On her departing, she menaced him with a thousand 
disagreeables and losses; and to all these the king subjected 
himself rather than break his word. 

Then came Victory, and after using the same argument as 
Wealth, took her leave, the king still remaining constant to 
the same opinion. Finally, as they tell the story. Faith ap- 
peared to him, and, making complaint, prepared to depart like 
the rest. To this the king would not agree, but embraced her 
firmly, nor would he on any account permit her to go. Thus 
the Hindus say that, after many combats with Faith, she was 
overcome by the king’s insistence and remained. With her 
came Wealth, Victory, and all other good things. This is a 
fine apologue to teach us that everything may be abandoned — 



REFLECTIONS ON THE STORY 


47 1 


Wealth and Prosperity — but Faith never ; for where she is, 
everything else is naturally attracted also. From this the reader 
can recognise that these Hindus, granting their blindness in 
their errors, are not devoid of some of the principles and foun- 
dations of morality. 

[Pp. 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, and 89 are blank. On p. go the 
text is continued in French.] 


END OF VOL. n. 


BILLING AND SONS} LTD., PRINTERS, GUILDFORD 






PRESroENTS 

SECRETARIAT 


LIBRARY 
