HISTORY 

OF 

HINDU-CHRISTIAN 

ENCOUNTERS 

(AD 304 to 1996) 



SITA RAM GOa 




Preface to the Second Edition 


The first edition of this book, published in 1986, had 16 chapters and 
an appendix. This second edition has 25 chapters. The appendix - 
Encounter at Pondicherry - has been fitted in the chronology of encounters 
and forms Chapter 7 of the new edition. Chapter 14 of the old edition has 
been split into two chapters, 15 and 16, separating the debate on the 
Fundamental Right to Propagate Religion from the debate in the 
Constituent Assembly. Similarly, Chapter 16 of the old edition has been 
split into three chapters - 18, 19 and 20 - separating the three subjects dealt 
with. Chapter 19 which formed Section II of Chapter 16 in the old edition 
has been expanded by incorporation of a dialogue between Ram Swamp 
and Bede Griffiths. Five chapters, 21 to 25, are entirely new and cover 
Hindu-Christian encounters that have come to my knowledge since the 
first edition was compiled. 


The old scheme of numbering and naming the encounters serially has 
been given up in the new edition. I realized that there might have been 
Hindu-Christian encounters which had not come to my notice. The 
chapters have now been given headings in keeping with their contents. But 
the chronological order has been maintained. 


The new edition has been thoroughly revised. Fanguage has been 
straightened wherever necessary, and typographical errors have been 
removed. Footnotes have been numbered serially for each chapter, and not 
for each page as in the earlier edition. Some footnotes of the old edition 
have been expanded, and some new ones have been added. Comments at 
the end of Chapter 3 have been revised. A critical note regarding the role 
of the Ramakrishna Mission has been added to Chapter 13 which deals 
with Swami Vivekananda’s encounter with Christianity. Chapter 14 which 
deals with Mahatma Gandhi’s encounter with Christianity carries a long 
and critical postscript. Criticism of Mahatma Gandhi may sound startling. 



But I could not help saying what I have said. His role vis-a-vis Christianity 
has to be reassessed. 


Finally, the book now carries a subtitle - AD 304 to 1996. This was 
suggested by Shri Harish Chandra, a keen reader and evaluator of VOICE 
OF INDIA publications. 


It is hoped that readers will find this revised and enlarged edition as 
informative as the old one. The comments I received on the first edition 
were rewarding as well as encouraging. Koenraad Fist came to me in 1989 
as soon as he read the book. His cryptic comment was, “Hindus have a 
very good case vis-a-vis Christianity and Islam, but at present it is either 
not presented at all or presented very badly. This book is a departure.” It 
was not long before he became a scholar-writer of the VOICE OF INDIA 
family. I look forward to comments from new readers of this work as a 
whole, and from the old readers on my critical notes and the new chapters, 
particularly the one which advocates rejection of Jesus as junk. 

II 


History of Hindu-Christian encounters, as surveyed in this book, falls 
into five distinct phases. In all of them Christian missionaries stick to their 
basic dogma of One True God and the Only Saviour. But they keep on 
changing their methods and verbiage. To start with, spokesmen for 
Hinduism offer a stiff resistance to the Christian message as well as 
missionary methods. But due to a number of factors, Hindu resistance 
weakens in later stages and then disappears altogether so that Christianity 
forges ahead with a sense of triumph. 



In the first-phase, which opens with the coming of the Portuguese 
pirates, Christianity presents itself in its true colours. Its language is as 
crude as in its homeland in Europe, and its methods as cruel. Hindus are 
helpless and suffer any number of atrocities. Fortunately for them, this 
phase does not last for long. The Portuguese lose power except in Goa and 
some other small territories. The other European powers that take over 
have no time to spare for Christianity except the French for a brief period 
in Pondicherry. 


The second phase opens with the consolidation of the British conquest. 
The British do not allow Christian missions to use physical methods. But 
missionary language continues to be as crude as ever. Christianity enjoys a 
brief period of self-confidence. The phase ends with the rise of Hindu 
reform movements, particularly the Arya Samaj. Christianity suffers a 
serious set-back. 


The third phase starts with the advent of Mahatma Gandhi and his 
slogan of sarva-dharma-samabhAva. Christianity is thrown on the 
defensive and forced to change its language. The foul-mouthed miscreants 
become sweet-tongued vipers. Now they are out to “share their spiritual 
riches” with Hindus, reminding us of the naked beggar promising to 
donate his wardrobe to wealthy persons. The phase ended with the 
Tambram Conference of the International Missionary Council in 1938 
which decided to reformulate Christian theology in the Indian context. 


The fourth phase which commenced with the coming of independence 
proved a boon for Christianity. The Christian right to convert Hindus was 
incorporated in the Constitution. Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru who 
dominated the scene for 17 long years promoted every anti-Hindu 
ideology and movement. The regimes that followed till the rise of P.V. 
Narasimha Rao raised the spectre of ‘Hindu communalism’ as the most 
frightening phenomenon. Christian missionaries could now denounce as a 



Hindu communalist and fascist, even as a Hindu Nazi, any one who raised 
the slightest objection to their methods. All sorts of ‘secularists’ came 
forward to join the chorus. New theologies of Fulfilment, Indigenisation, 
Liberation, and Dialogue were evolved and put into action. The missionary 
apparatus multiplied fast and manifold. Christianity had never had it so 
good in the whole of its history in India. It now stood recognized as ‘an 
ancient Indian religion’ with every right to extend its fold. The only rift in 
the lute was K. M. Panikkar’s book, the Niyogi Committee Report, and 
Om Prakash Tyagi’s Bill on Freedom of Religion. 


The fifth phase which is continuing now started with Hindu awakening 
brought about by conversion of some Harijans to Islam at 
Meenakshipuram, renewed Muslim aggression in many ways, and 
Pakistan-backed terrorism in Punjab and Kashmir. The Sangh Parivar 
which had turned cold towards Hindu causes over the years was startled by 
the rout of the Bharatiya Janata Party in the 1984 elections, and decided to 
renew its Hindu character. The Ramajanmabhumi Movement was the 
result. The Movement was aimed at arresting Islamic aggression. 
Christianity or its missions were hardly mentioned. Nevertheless, it was 
Christianity which showed the greatest concern at this new Hindu stir, and 
started crying ‘wolf’. Its media power in the West raised a storm saying 
that Hindus were out to destroy the minorities in India and impose a Nazi 
regime. The storm is still raging and no one knows when it will subside, if 
at all. 


II 


Hindus from seventeenth century Pandits of Tamil Nadu to Mahatma 
Gandhi have wasted no end of breath to demolish the dogma of 
Christianity. But it has hardly made any difference to the arrogance of 
Christian theologians and missionaries. That is because dogma was never 
meant for discussion. It is an axiom of logic that that which has not been 
proved cannot and need not be disproved. Who has ever proved that the 
nondescript Jew who was crucified by a Roman governor of Judaea in 33 



AD atoned for the sins of mankind for all time to come? Who has ever 
proved that those who accept that Jew as the only saviour will ascend to a 
heaven of everlasting bliss and those who do not will burn for ever in the 
blazing fire of hell? Nor can the proclamation or the promise or the threat 
be disproved. High-sounding theological blah blah notwithstanding the 
fact remains that the dogma is no more than a subterfuge for forging and 
wielding an organizational weapon for aggression against other people. It 
is high time for Hindus to dismiss the dogma of Christianity with the 
contempt it deserves, and pay attention to the Christian missionary 
apparatus planted in their midst. 


The sole aim of this apparatus is to ruin Hindu society and culture, and 
take over the Hindu homeland. It goes on devising strategies for every 
situation, favourable and unfavourable. It trains and employs a large 
number of intellectual criminals ready to prostitute their talents in the 
service of their paymasters, and adept at dressing up dark designs in high- 
sounding language. The fact that every design is advertised as a theology 
in the Indian context, and every criminal euphemized as an -Indian 
theologian should not hoodwink Hindus about the real intentions. 


Hindus are committing a great mistake in. regarding the encounter 
between Hinduism and Christianity as a dialogue between two religions. 
Christianity has never been a religion; it has always been a predatory 
imperialism par excellence. The encounter, therefore, should be viewed as 
a battle between two totally opposed and mutually exclusive ways of 
thought and behaviour. In the language of the Gita (Chapter 16), it is war 
between daivi (divine) and Asurl (demonic) sampads (propensities). In the 
larger context of history, it can also be described as war between the Vedic 
and the Biblical traditions. 

This is not the place to go into the premises from which the two 
traditions proceed. I have presented them in some detail elsewhere.- Here I 
will indicate briefly the behaviour patterns they promote. 


The Vedic tradition advises people to be busy with themselves, that is, 
their own moral and spiritual improvement. Several disciplines have been 
evolved for this purpose - tapas (austerity), yoga (meditation), jnAna 
(reflection), bhakti (devotion), etc. A seeker can take to whatever 
discipline suits his adhAra (stage of moral-spiritual preparation). There is 
no uniform prescription for every body, no coercion into a belief system, 
and no regimentation for aggression against others. 


The Biblical tradition, on the other hand, teaches people to be busy 
with others. One is supposed to have become a superior human being as 
soon as one confesses the ‘only true faith’. Thenceforward one stands 
qualified to ‘save’ others. The only training one needs thereafter is how to 
man a mission or military expedition, how to convert others by all 
available means including force and fraud, and how to kill or ruin those 
who refuse to come round. 


The Vedic tradition has given to the world schools of Sanatana Dharma 
which have practised peace among their own followers as well as towards 
the followers of other paths. On the other hand, the Biblical tradition has 
spawned cults such as Christianity, Islam, Communism, and Nazism which 
have always produced violent conflicts as much within their own camps as 
with each other. 

New Delhi, 

15 June 1996 


Sita Ram Goel 


Footnotes: 



- Sita Ram Goel, Defence of Hindu Society, Third revised edition, 
Voice of India, New Delhi, 1994. 


Preface to the First Edition 


Christian historians, in India and abroad, have written many accounts 
of how Christian theologians, missionaries and warlords have looked at 
Hinduism- in different phases of Christian aggression against this ancient 
religion and culture. But there is no connected account of how Hindu 
thinkers, saints and sages have viewed Christianity and its exclusive 
claims. The present study is an attempt to fill that gap. It is far from being 
exhaustive, it seeks to cover only some of the high spots in a prolonged 
encounter starting with the Christian attack on Hindu temples in the 
Roman Empire, a few years before Constantine enthroned Christianity as 
the state religion of Rome. 


The absence of such a study has given rise to misunderstanding as well 
as misrepresentation. An ever-increasing section of the Hindu intelligentsia 
has been led to believe that it is uncharacteristic of Hinduism to examine 
critically the claims advanced by another religion. This is a complete 
misunderstanding as this study goes to show in the context of Christianity. 
Meanwhile, Christian theologians have been presenting the leading 
spokesmen for Hinduism as if they were disciples of Jesus Christ rather 
than exponents of Sanatana Dharma. It is difficult to say whether the 
misrepresentation is deliberate or due to the theologians’ penchant for 
seeing their own pet god presiding over every manifestation, in the realm 
of thought as well as of things. But all the same it is there. 


Readers of the dialogue between Swami Devananda Saraswati and Fr. 
Bede Griffiths which has been summarised in this study (pp. 386-98) can 
see for themselves how confidently Fr. Bede invokes the names of Sri 
Ramakrishna, Swami Vivekananda, Sri Aurobindo, Ramana Maharshi, 
Mahatma Gandhi and Ramalinga Swamigal and regards them as “Hindu in 
religion while being Christian in spirit.” Dr. M. M. Thomas, a noted 
theologian, goes much further in his thesis. The Acknowledged Christ of 


the Indian Renaissance, first published in 1970 and republished in a 
second edition in 1976. It is supposed to be a rejoinder to Dr. Raymond 
Panikkar’s The Unknown Christ of Hinduism, an earlier theological 
exercise published in 1964. But while the title of Dr. Panikkar’s book had 
the merit of suggesting only a speculation, howsoever wild, the title of Dr. 
Thomas’ book is a misrepresentation of the Hindu point of view, as he 
himself shows in course of presenting the views of Raja Ram Mohun Roy, 
Keshub Chander Sen, P. C. Mozoomdar, Sri Ramakrishna, Swami 
Vivekananda, Dr. Radhakrishnan and Mahatma Gandhi. None of these 
Hindu thinkers ever admitted that the Jesus of history was the Christ of 
Christian theology, that is, the only son .of God and the sole saviour of 
mankind. 


And that brings us to the crux of the encounter between Hinduism and 
Christianity. No Hindu thinker has had the least objection to Christians 
believing in and seeking salvation through Jesus. Nor do Hindus bother 
about the dogmas of the only sonship, the virgin birth, the atoning death, 
the resurrection and the rest, so long as Christians keep these to 
themselves. It is only when the Christian missionary apparatus tries 
doggedly to impose these dogmas on other people that Hindu thinkers are 
forced to register a protest and have a close look at the Jesus of history. 


Christian missionaries should thank their stars that the historical and 
critical research undertaken by Western scholars regarding Jesus and New 
Testament stories, has not yet reached the Hindu intelligentsia,- partly due 
to the traditional Hindu indifference towards the historicity of saints and 
sages and partly due to the Christian domination over education and mass 
media in this country. The Hindu intelligentsia at large is also not yet 
acquainted with the history of Christianity in Europe and its missions 
elsewhere. Western scholarship has already produced several hundred well 
documented studies which have made the historical Jesus of Christian 
theology evaporate into thin air and Christian history look like a tale of 
terror and wanton bloodshed. The Christian missionaries in India will run 
for cover whenever the findings of Western research become widely 


known to the Hindu intelligentsia, the same way as the churches have been 
doing in all Western countries since the middle of the eighteenth century. 
The missionaries know it very well that Christianity being in a very bad 
shape in the West is trying desperately to find a safe-house in the East. 


We have also something to say about “dialogue” which has become the 
most famous as well as the most frequent word in current Christian 
parlance. The Second Vatican Council is supposed to have made a radical 
departure from the earlier Christian stand vis-a-vis other religions. “The 
Catholic Church,” says a proclamation. Nostra aetale, dated October 28, 
1965, “rejects nothing of what is true and holy in these religions 
[Hinduism and Buddhism]. She has a high regard for the manner of life 
and conduct, the precepts and doctrines which although differing in many 
ways from her own teaching, often reflect a ray of that truth which 
enlightens all men. Yet she proclaims and is duty bound to proclaim 
without fail, Christ who is the way, the truth and life (Jn. 14:6). In him, in 
whom God reconciled all things to himself (2 Cor. 5:18-19), men find the 
fullness of their religious life. The Church, therefore, urges her sons to 
enter with prudence and charity into discussion and collaboration with 
members of other religions. Let Christians, while witnessing their own 
faith and way of life, acknowledge, preserve and encourage the spiritual 
and moral truths found among non-Christians, also their social life and 
culture.”- Before we offer our own comments on this proclamation, we 
like to quote a Christian missionary regarding how difficult the dialogue 
remains. “But if we accept,” says J. Dilasa, Superior General, I.M.S., “the 
unique claim of Christ as the only Son of God who entered human history 
and radically changed it as the Lord of history, there is very little scope for 
inter-religious collaboration. As heralds of the one Gospel of salvation we 
have to proclaim it and others have to accept it. Similarly if we consider 
the unique mission of the Church to continue the work of Christ, I wonder 
how an inter-religious missionary activity is possible.”- 


It should be plain to any reader who is not over-awed by the pope and 
his ex-cathedra ordinances that apart from being patronising in its tone, the 
proclamation breathes an air of reserve and reluctance in conceding even 
the little it does. The most amazing part, however, is that it has taken the 
disciples of Jesus well-nigh two thousand years to find in Hinduism and 
Buddhism only “a ray of that truth which enlightens all men.” it speaks 
volumes of the wisdom which the Church of Christ is supposed to have 
enshrined down the ages. The less said about that Church’s new role in 
preserving and encouraging “the spiritual and moral truths found among 
non-Christians”, the better. The non-Christian religions have preserved on 
their own their truths, their social life and their culture throughout these 
long centuries; they certainly do not stand in need of help from an 
apparatus which has tried its utmost to uproot them. The stark truth seems 
to be the other way around; it is the Church of Christ which is seeking 
desperately the help of non-Christian religions in order to save whatever 
little is left of its superstitions. That is the meaning of the “dialogue” for 
which Christian theologians and missionaries are crying now-a-days. The 
“dialogue” does not seem to be a sincere attempt at reconciliation; on the 
contrary, it is only a strategy for survival on the part of Christianity. 


The Church will sound sincere only when it stops saying that Jesus 
should be accepted by all as the one and only saviour of mankind and that 
Christianity holds a monopoly of the highest truth. That will also lead it to 
renounce its ridiculous exercises in theologies of fulfilment, inculturation 
and liberation, etc. The missionary apparatus which was created with the 
help of imperialist armies and which is now being sustained by means of 
massive money and media power of the West will have to be dismantled. 
Exclusive claims and missionary, efforts stand or fall together. 


As the following pages make it clear, the spokesmen for Hinduism 
have examined and rejected every exclusive claim of Christianity. If 
orthodox Christianity survives in this country, it is not because there is any 
merit in its dogmas but simply because it has established itself over the 
centuries as a powerful political and economic entity. It is high time for 



Christian theologians to come down to earth and recognize every person’s 
right to seek truth and salvation in his or her own way. They should know 
that while they invoke the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the 
Constitution of India in order to protect their aggressive apparatus, they 
are riding roughshod over the most fundamental human right, that is, to 
know God directly, without the aid of officious intermediaries most of 
whom are no better, if not worse, than those whom they choose to 
evangelize. Dr. Radhakrishnan put the matter straight when he told a 
missionary friend, “You Christians seem to us Hindus rather ordinary 
people making extraordinary claims.” When the missionary explained that 
the claims were being made on behalf of Christ, he observed, “If your 
Christ has not succeeded in making you better men and women, have we 
any reason to suppose that he would do more for us, if we became 
Christians?” He reminded the missionary that Hinduism was “more 
modest and more logical” in teaching that “the divine immanence in every 
man and women makes it possible for all to seek the truth in their own 
ways.” Finally, he pointed towards a living example of what religion 
means to the Hindus. “The fact of Gandhi,” he said, “is a challenge to the 
exclusive claims of Christianity.”- 

Rakshabandhana Pumima 
August 17, 1989, 

New Delhi. 


Sita Ram Goel 


Footnotes: 

- The term “Hinduism” is used here, as throughout this study, in 
the sense in which Gandhiji used it, that is, to cover all schools of 
Sanatana Dharma - Buddhism, Jainism, Shaivism, Shaktism and 
Vaishnavism which includes the Santa-m<a!to and Sikhism Treating 
these segments of a single spiritual vision as separate religions is not 
only misleading but also mischievous. 


- Since this Preface was written, an attempt to make this research 
available to the Hindu intelligentsia has been made in Sita Ram Goel, 
Jesus Christ: An Artifice for Aggression, voice of India, New Delhi, 
1994. 


- Vatican Council II: The Conciliar and Post Conciliar 
Documents edited by Austin Flannery, O.P., St. Paul Publications, 
Bombay, 1983, p. 668. 


- ‘Problems of Evangelisation’, in Jeevandhara: A Journal of 
Christian Interpretation, September 1988, pp. 330-31. 

- Sarvepalli Gopal, Radhakrishanan: A Biography, OUP, 1989, p. 
195. 








1 

Encounter on the Euphrates 


Christian historians will have us believe that Hinduism first came in 
contact with Christianity in AD 52 when St. Thomas, an apostle of Jesus 
Christ, landed in Malabar. He is supposed to have travelled in South India 
and founded seven churches before he was. “murdered” by the “malicious” 
Brahmanas. The old Christians in Kerala, who knew as well as introduced 
themselves as Syrian Christians till the other day, now take pride in calling 
themselves St. Thomas Christians. We have examined this story 
elsewhere- as also the motives for floating it. Here it should suffice to say 
that the more scrupulous Christian historians have found the story too 
fanciful to be taken seriously. 


Coming to facts of history, the first encounter between Hinduism and 
Christianity took place not in India but in those parts of West Asia, North 
Africa and Southern Europe which comprised the Roman Empire at the 
dawn of the Christian era. There is evidence, archaeological as well as 
literary, that Hinduism had made its presence felt in Graeco-Roman 
religions and philosophies long before Jesus was bom. The imprint of 
Samkhya, Yoga and Vedanta on Eleatic, Elusinian, Orphic, Pythagorean, 
Platonist, Stoic, Gnostic and Neo-Platonist philosophies is too manifest to 
be missed easily. It was widely believed in the ancient Western world that 
the Greeks had learnt their wisdom from the Brahmanas of India. Evidence 
of Hindu colonies in some leading cities of the Roman Empire is also 
available. Hindu temples had come up wherever Hindu merchants and 
traders had established their colonies. Hindu saints, sages and savants 
could not have lagged behind. 


Christianity did not fail to notice this Hindu presence as soon as it 
became a force in the Roman Empire. It was, from its very birth, wide 


awake towards all currents and crosscurrents of thought and culture. We 
find St. Hippolytus attacking the Brahmanas as a source of heresy as early 
as the first quarter of the third country.- It was not long after that Hinduism 
faced a determined assault from Christianity as did other ancient religions 
of the Roman Empire. 


Hindu temples were the most visible symbols of the Brahmana 
religion. They became targets of Christian attack like all other Pagan 
temples. “According to the Syrian writer Zenob,” writes Dr. R. C. 
Majumdar, “there was an Indian colony in the canton of Taron on the 
upper Euphrates, to the west of Eake Van, as early as the second century 
B.C. The Indians had built there two temples containing images of gods 
about 18 and 22 feet high. When, about AD 304, St. Gregory came to 
destroy these images, he was strongly opposed by the Hindus. But he 
defeated them and smashed the images, thus anticipating the iconoclastic 
zeal of Mahmud of Ghazni 


Historians of the Roman Empire have documented the large-scale 
destruction of Pagan temples by Christianity from the fourth century 
onwards.- It is more than likely that some of these were places of Hindu 
worship. The word “pagan” is a comprehensive term in Christian parlance 
and covers a large variety of religious and cultural expressions. Hindu 
historians will have to examine all archives. Pagan as well as Christian. 
Meanwhile, let Christian theologians tell us of the Christian virtues for 
which Gregory was canonised as a saint. 

Footnotes: 

- Sita Ram Goel, Papacy. Its Doctrine and History, Voice of 
India, 1986, pp. 55-58. The St. Thomas story has since been 
examined in great detail in The myth of Saint Thomas and the 
Mylapore Shiva Temple by Ishwar Sharan, Voice of India, New Delhi, 
1991, reprinted in a revised and enlarged second edition in 1995. 


- D. P. Singhal, India and World Civilization, Calcutta, 1972, 
Volume I, p. 85. 


- The History and Culture of the Indian People, Volume II, The 
Age of Imperial Unity, Fourth Edition, Bombay, 1968, pp. 633-634. It 
would have been more appropriate to mention Francis Xavier in this 
context. Islamic iconoclasm is not the only iconoclasm which 
Hinduism has known. Christian iconoclasm pioneered by Xavier was 
no less ferocious and predatory. It is true that due to geographical and 
historical factors, Christian iconoclasm came to this country much 
later, was confined to a much smaller area and spread over a much 
shorter time-span as compared to the large-scale and prolonged 
iconoclasm practised by Islam. But, it was no less criminal in its 
inspiration. Moreover, Islam did not invent iconoclasm. It had learnt 
it from the Bible and the Christian practice down the ages. 


- The evidence of Christian iconoclasm in many countries for 
many centuries lies scattered in many Christian and non-Christian 
accounts. During my travels in 1989, I searched several leading 
libraries in Switzerland, Germany, France, England and the USA for a 
consolidated study of the subject but failed to find any. A glimpse of 
what Christianity did to Pagan temples in the Roman Empire can, 
however, be had from Pierre Chuvin, A Chronicle of the Last Pagans, 
Harvard University Press, Cambridge, Massachussetts, USA, 1990. 


2 

Encounter in Malabar 

It is not known whether the news of the Christian onslaught on 
Hinduism in the Roman Empire reached India. One wonders whether the 
merchants and monks who survived and returned home grasped the import 
of what was happening. If they gave to their countrymen an account of 
what they had witnessed in a distant land, the record has not survived or is 
not yet known. Nor do we know how the Hindus at home reacted, if at all. 
What we do know, however, is that Hinduism in India had not heard of 
Christianity when the two had their second encounter, this time inside the 
homeland of Hinduism. 

The Hindus of Malabar were the first to see Christians arriving in their 
midst. They were mostly refugees from persecution in Syria and later on in 
Iran. Christians in Syria were persecuted by their own brethren in faith. 
They had become suspect in Iran from the fourth century onwards when 
Iran’s old adversary, the Roman Empire, became a Christian state. They 
suffered repeated persecutions in both countries. As most of them were 
heretics in the eyes of Christian orthodoxy, they could not go west. So they 
fled towards India and China, which two countries were known for their 
religious tolerance throughout the ages. Eater on, they were joined by 
refugees from Armenia flying from Christian heresy-hunters. 

The record that has been preserved by the Christian refugees 
themselves tells us that they were received well by the Hindus of Malabar. 
Hindu Rajas gave them land and money grants for building houses and 
churches. Hindus in general made things so pleasant for them that they 
decided to stay permanently in Malabar. No Hindu, Raja or commoner, 
ever bothered about what the refugees believed or what god they 
worshipped. No one interfered with the hierarchs who came from Syria 
from time to time to visit their flock in India and collect the tithes. In due 
course, the refugees came to be known as Syrian Christians. 

It is not known how the Syrian Christians viewed their Hindu 
neighbours. If they despised the Hindus as heathens, they kept it a closely 
guarded secret. Nor did they try to evangelize and convert the Hindus, the 



two practices which had been proclaimed by the Founding Fathers of the 
Church as inseparable parts of the Christian Creed and inalienable rights of 
Christians everywhere. On the contrary, they lost their separate identity 
and became a part of the local population, so much so that Christian 
travellers who came to these parts in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries 
did not notice them as different from Hindus. They learnt the local 
language and took to Hindu modes in dress and food and the other 
externals of life. They intermarried with certain sections of Hindu society. 
Even inside their churches, their rituals acquired the character of Hindu 
pUjA. 

Latter-day Christian theologians and historians would claim that Syrian 
Christianity had. a tremendous impact on Hinduism. The notion of One 
God which some sixteenth-century missionaries “discovered” in Hinduism 
would be seen as a contribution of Christianity. Nineteenth-century 
Christian scholars would assert that Hindus had derived the concepts of 
bhakti (devotion) and mukti (salvation) from the Christian contact in South 
India which was held by Hindus as the original home of the medieval 
Bhakti Movement. Christ was seen disguised in Krishna who figured 
prominently in certain Vaishnava schools of bhakti. Hindu philosophies 
like the advaita of Shankara and the vishisTAdvaita of Ramanuja were also 
traced to Christian sources. 

No scholar today takes these hair-brained Christian speculations 
seriously. The current fashion among scholars of medieval India is to see 
Islam as the source of the Bhakti Movement. But that is a different story, it 
is also a different story that some Christian theologians are trying to use 
advaita and vishisTAdvaita as vehicles for implanting Christianity into the 
heart of Hinduism. What is pertinent in the present context is that the 
Syrian Christians were never known to their Hindu neighbours for spiritual 
or philosophical profundities. The only thing that was known about them 
was that they were hardworking and intelligent businessmen, some of 
whom had succeeded as prosperous spice merchants. They were also 
known for keeping slaves as well as trading in them. 


The significant point to be noted about the Syrian Christians, however, 
is their sudden change of colour as soon as the Portuguese arrived on the 



scene. They immediately rallied round the Portuguese and against their 
Hindu neighbours, and when the Portuguese started pressurizing the Hindu 
Rajas for extraterritorial rights so that their co-religionists could be 
“protected”, the Syrian Christians evinced great enthusiasm everywhere. 
They became loyal subjects of the king of Portugal and pious adherents of 
the Roman Catholic Church. Was it the demonstration of Portuguese 
power which demoralised the Syrian Christians and made them do what 
they did? Or was it the Christian doctrine which, though it lay dormant for 
a long time, surfaced at the first favourable opportunity? The matter has to 
be examined. Looking at the behaviour of Syrian Christians ever since, the 
second proposition seems to be nearer the truth .- 

Footnotes: 

- cf. K.M. Panikkar, Malabar and the Portuguese. Bombay, 1929. 


3 

Hallucinations of the Devil’s Devotees 


For a long time, the Syrian Christians provided the only contact which 
Hinduism had with Christianity. India lost touch with the Christian West 
for well-nigh seven centuries because Islamic empires in the Middle East 
and Central Asia, had raised a barrier between the two. Christians and 
Muslims were involved in mortal combat soon after the death of prophet 
Muhammad in AD 632. Christian travellers ran the risk of death if they 
tried to come east through Muslim dominated routes on land and sea. 
Hindu merchants, too, lost the incentive for going to Europe. Muslim 
merchants had monopolised all trade between the East and the West. Hindu 
sages and savants could hardly think of going abroad; they were having a 
very difficult time at home where Islam was heaping humiliations on them. 


It goes to the credit of medieval Christianity that in spite of this total 
loss of physical contact, it kept alive the memory of the Brahmanas in its 
theology. Christian theologians never forgot to remember the Brahmanas 
whenever they thought of the Pagan Greeks, which was quite often. Only 
the status of the Brahmanas vis-a-vis the Greeks had suffered a decline. In 
Pagan times, the Brahmanas were known as teachers of the Greeks, but in 
Christian centuries they came to be known only as Pythagoreans who 
avoided animal food and believed in transmigration. That, however, did 
not make a difference to Christian perception of the Brahmana religion. 


So, when the Church Bathers converted the Gods o the Greeks into 
devils, the Gods of the Brahmanas suffered a similar fate. “St. Augustine,” 
writes Professor Partha Mitter, “sanctioned the idea that demons persuaded 
the ancients to false belief. Some of the most virulent attacks on pagan 
gods are to be found in St. Augustine’s De Civitate Dei, where he argued 
that devils presented themselves to be adored, but they were no gods but 



wicked fiends and most foul, unclean and impotent spirits.”- The Christian 
travellers who started trickling into India from the fourteenth century 
onwards, could not help seeing the hosts of hell in Hindu temples. 


The first Christian traveller to India who has left a written account was 
a friar. Father Odoric of Podenone. He was in South India from AD 1316 
to 1318. “He was the first traveller,” proceeds Professor Mitter, “to leave a 
description of a monstrous idol in the form of half man and half ox. The 
monster at Quilon in South India gave responses from its mouth and 
demanded the blood of forty virgins to be given to it.”- This description 
passed into a painting by Boucicau Master, the greatest illuminator of 
manuscripts in Paris in the first years of the fifteenth century. One of his 
illustrations in Livres de marveilles, a famous manuscript, is “on human 
sacrifice taking place in Quilon in front of an idol.”- This painting “for the 
first time assigned horns and goat-head to an Indian god which had until 
now been the common features of the devil .”- 


But by far the best Christian commentator on Hindu Gods was the 
Italian traveller, Ludovico di Varthema, from Bologna. He was in South 
India between AD 1503 and 1508. According to his “description of the 
religion prevailing in the area”, the Raja of Calicut “paid respect to a devil 
known as Deumo in these parts.” He had an eye for detail, small and big, 
as is evident from his Itineratio published in AD 1510. The Raja of 
Calicut, he wrote, “keeps this Deumo in his chapel in his palace.” The 
chapel had in its midst ‘a devil made of metal.’ This devil had “four horns 
and four teeth with a very large mouth, nose and most terrible eyes.” Its 
hands were “made like those of a flesh-hook and the feet like those of a 
cock.” Varthema saw many more devils in “pictures around the said 
chapel.” On each side of the chapel, he found a Satan “seated in a seat, 
which seat is placed in a flame of fire, wherein are a great number of souls, 
of the length of half a finger and a finger of the hand.” He concluded his 
account of the Raja’s chapel by stating that the Satan “holds a soul in his 
mouth with the right hand and with the other seizes a soul by the waist.”- 


An illustrated edition of Varthema’s Itineratio was published in 
Germany in AD 1515. The Deumo of Calicut came alive in a woodcut by 
an Augsburg artist. Varthema was translated in all major European 
languages and ran into numerous illustrated editions. It became the best 
travel guide for most European visitors to India during the two succeeding 
centuries. Professor Mitter has summarised the reports of these travellers 
so far as they refer to Hindu Gods. He has also reproduced pictorial 
samples of what these travelers “saw with their own eyes” in one Hindu 
temple after another. He prepares his readers before he proceeds with the 
travelogues. “It does not surprise us,” he explains, “that these travellers 
believed in the essential truthfulness of their reports which were of course 
unquestionably accepted by their contemporaries. Yet as a comparison of 
actual Indian sculptures with their early descriptions reveals, the early 
travellers were far from being objective. That is not to say that there was a 
deliberate conspiracy, for that would have made things easy for us. It is 
simply that early travellers preferred to trust what they had been taught to 
expect instead of trusting their own eyes.”- 


Professor Mitter puts the blame on the Church Eathers who had taught 
that “all pagan gods were demons and devils.”- But that does not explain 
why devils and demons occupied all the attention of the Church for many 
centuries to the exclusion of everything else even when no “pagan gods” 
were around any more. It has been calculated by scholars of the subject 
that the number of devils and demons known to the Church ran up to eight 
millions. We have to face the fact that Christianity has been and remains a 
cult of devil-worship. That is why its adherents see only devils and demons 
wherever they go. There is no other explanation for the hallucinations of 
Varthema and Company. The fact that the Devil is described as God in the 
Bible should make no difference. 

Footnotes: 

- Partha Mitter, The Much Maligned Monsters, Oxford, 1977, p. 9. 


- Ibid., p. 11. 

- Ibid. 

- Ibid., p. 14. 

- Ibid., p. 17 

- Ibid., p. 2. 


- Ibid., p. 17. The medieval Christian image of Hindu Gods 
persists in our own times. Abbe Duboi, the famous French missionary, 
wrote a whole chapter on Hindu temples in his book, Hindu Manners, 
Customs and Ceremonies. Coming to Hindu idols he says, “Hindu 
imagination is such that it cannot be excited except by what is 
monstrous and extravagant” (p. 607). The third and final edition of 
this book was published in 1897, nearly a hundred years ago. But it 
remains the best primer on Hinduism for the average Western traveller 
to India. Max Muller recommended it “as containing views of an eye¬ 
witness, a man singularly free from all prejudice” (p. vii). It has run 
through a dozen reprints in England. The Oxford University Press has 
printed its Fifth Indian impression as recently as 1985. Several other 
Indian publishers have produced it in different shapes and sizes 
because it is in constant demand. We have no idea in how many 
languages it has been translated and how many reprints it has run 
elsewhere. The total turnout over the years must have been 
considerable. For many modern Hindus, it is the only source of their 
knowledge about the religion of their ancestors. 









4 

Pirates in Priest’s Clothing 


The next encounter between Hinduism and Christianity commenced 
with the coming of Christian missionaries to Malabar after Vasco da Gama 
found his way to Calicut in AD 1498. It took a serious turn in AD 1542 
when Francis Xavier, a rapacious pirate dressed up as a priest, arrived on 
the scene. The proceedings have been preserved by the Christian 
participants. They make the most painful reading in the history of 
Christianity in India. Francis Xavier had come with the firm resolve of 
“uprooting paganism” from the soil of India and planting Christianity in its 
place. His sayings and doings have been documented in his numerous 
biographies and cited by every historian of the Portuguese episode in the 
history of India. 


Francis Xavier was convinced that Hindus could not be credited with 
the intelligence to know what was good for them. They were completely 
under the spell of the Brahmanas who, in turn, were in league with evil 
spirits. The first priority in India, therefore, was to free the poor Hindus 
from the stranglehold of the Brahmanas and destroy the places where evil 
spirits were worshipped. A bounty for the Church was bound to follow in 
the form of mass conversions .- 


We shall let a Christian historian speak about what the Portuguese did 
in their Indian domain. “At least from 1540 onwards,” writes Dr. T. R. de 
Souza “and in the island of Goa before that year, all the Hindu idols had 
been annihilated or had disappeared, all the temples had been destroyed 
and their sites and building materials were in most cases utilised to erect 
new Christian churches and chapels. Various vice regal and Church 
council decrees banished the Hindu priests from the Portuguese territories; 
the public practice of Hindu rites including marriage rites, was banned; the 


state took upon itself the task of bringing up the Hindu orphan children; 
the Hindus were denied certain employments, while the Christians were 
preferred; it was ensured that the Hindus would not harass those who 
became Christians, and on the contrary, the Hindus were obliged to 
assemble periodically in churches to listen to preaching or to the refutation 
of their religion 


Coming to the performance of the missionaries, he continues: “A 
particularly grave abuse was practised in Goa in the form of ‘mass 
baptism’ and what went before it. The practice was begun by the Jesuits 
and was later initiated by the Franciscans also. The Jesuits staged an 
annual mass baptism on the Feast of the Conversion of St. Paul (25 
January), and in order to secure as many neophytes as possible, a few days 
before the ceremony the Jesuits would go through the streets of the Hindu 
quarters in pairs, accompanied by their Negro slaves, whom they would 
urge to seize the Hindus. When the blacks caught up a fugitive, they would 
smear his lips with a piece of beef, making him an ‘untouchable’ among 
his people. Conversion to Christianity was then his only option 


Finally, he comes to “Financing Church Growth” and concludes: “...the 
government transferred to the Church and religious orders the properties 
and other sources of revenue that had belonged to the Hindu temples that 
had been demolished or to the temple servants who had been converted or 
banished. Entire villages were taken over at times for being considered 
rebellious and handed over with all their revenues to the Jesuits. In the 
villages that had submitted themselves, at times en masse, to being 
converted, the religious orders promoted competition to build bigger and 
bigger churches and more chapels than their neighbouring villages. Such a 
competition, drawing funds and diverting labour, from other important 
welfare works of the village, was decisively bringing the village economy 
in Goa into bankruptcy.”- 


During the same period, Christianity was spreading its tentacles to 
Bengal, its patrons were the same as in Goa; so also its means and 
methods. “The conversion of the Bengalis into Christianity,” writes Dr. 
Sisir Kumar Das, “not on y coincided with the activities of the Portuguese 
pirates in Bengal but the pirates took an active interest in it.”- The 
Augustinians and Jesuits manned the mission with bases at Chittagong in 
East Bengal and Bandel and Hooghly in West Bengal. Mission stations 
were established at many places in the interior. “It was the boast of the 
Hooghly Portuguese,” records Dr. P. Thomas, “that they made more 
Christians in a year by forcible conversions, of course, than all the 
missionaries in the East in ten.”- 


The Portuguese captured the young prince of Bhushna, an estate in 
Dhaka District. He was converted by an Augustinian friar. Bather 
D’Rozario and named Dom Antonio de Rozario. The prince, in turn, 
converted 20,000 Hindus in and around his estate. “The Jesuits came 
forward,” continues Dr. Das, “to help the neophytes to minister to the 
needs of the converts and this created bitterness between Augustinians and 
Jesuits... In 1677, the Provincial at Goa deputed Bather Anthony 
Magalheans, the Rector of the College at Agra, to visit and report on this 
problem. According to his report nearly 25,000, if not more, converts were 
there but they had hardly any knowledge of Christianity.... He also 
observed that many of them became Christians to get money. The Marsden 
Manuscripts now preserved in the British Museum containing letters of 
Jesuit Bathers, give evidence that Portuguese missionaries gave money to 
perspective converts to allure them.”- 


The quality of the converts, though bewailed frequently by the 
missionaries, did not really perturb them. Prey Duarte Nunes, the prelate 
of Goa, had foreseen the situation as early as 1522. According to him, 
“even if the first generation of converts was attracted by rice or by any 
other way and could hardly be expected to become good Christians, yet 


their children would become so with intensive indoctrination, and each 
successive generation would be more firmly rooted 


It was a very difficult situation for Hinduism. But, by and large, 
Hindus chose to stay in the faith of their forefathers in spite of all trials and 
temptations. There was no mass movement towards the Church except the 
“mass baptisms” staged by the Jesuits. The mission was in a fix. The 
strategy of forced conversions recommended by Francis Xavier had failed. 


Another Jesuit, Robert Di Nobili, came forward with a new strategy. 
When he came to the Madura Mission in 1606, he had found it a “desert” 
in terms of conversions. He had also seen that Hindus had retained their 
reverence for the Brahmanas in spite of missionary insinuations. So he 
decided that he would disguise himself as a Brahmana and preach the 
gospel by other means. The story is well-known - how he put on an ochre 
robe, wore the sacred thread, grew a tuft of hair on his head, took to 
vegetarian food, etc., in order to pass as a Brahmana. He also composed 
some books in Tamil and Sanskrit, particularly the one which he palmed 
off as the Yajurveda. When some Hindus suspected from the colour of his 
skin that he was a Christian, he lied with a straight face that he was a high¬ 
born Brahmana from Rome! 


Some Christian historians credit Di Nobili with converting a hundred 
thousand Hindus. Others put the figure at a few hundred. But all agree that 
his converts melted away very fast soon after he was exposed by other 
missionaries who were either jealous of him or did not like his methods. 
Christian theologians hail him as the pioneer of Indigenisation in India and 
the founder of the first Christian Ashram. A truly ethical criterion would 
dismiss him as a desperate and despicable scoundrel.- 


One wonders how Hinduism would have fared in South India if its 
encounter with Christianity under the Portuguese dispensation had 
continued uninterrupted. Hindus were helpless wherever Portuguese power 
prevailed and Hindus outside could not help as they themselves were 
groaning under the heel of Islamic imperialism after the defeat of the 
Vijayanagara Empire by a Muslim alliance in 1565 AD. The situation was 
saved by the Dutch in the second quarter of the seventeenth century. The 
Dutch destroyed the maritime monopoly of the Portuguese and drove them 
out of Malabar and southern Tamil Nadu. Christianity had to break its 
encounter with Hinduism except in the small Portuguese enclaves where it 
continued for two more centuries. But most of the heat applied on 
Hinduism had to be taken off because “the fear of retaliatory raids by the 
powerful Marathas in the neighbourhood acted as an effective check on the 
missionary zeal and coercion.”— 


A plausible case has been made by Christian historians, namely, that 
the Portuguese were using Christianity as a cover for their predatory 
imperialism. But what about the Augustinians and the Dominicans and the 
Franciscans, all of whom belonged to the holy orders? And what about 
Francis Xavier and his Jesuits? It cannot be overlooked that the Catholic 
Church hails an-arch criminal like Francis Xavier as the Patron Saint of 
the East. His carcass (or plaster cast) is still worshipped as a holy relic and 
the basilica where it is enshrined remains a place of Christian pilgrimage. 
It is shameless dishonesty to say that the Christian doctrine had nothing to 
do with the atrocities practised in Goa and Bengal and elsewhere under the 
Portuguese dispensation. 

Footnotes: 

- Francis Xavier was the pioneer of anti-Brahmanism which was 
adopted in due course as a major plank in the missionary propaganda 
by all Christian denominations. Ford Minto, Governor General of 
India from 1807 to 1812, submitted a Note to his superiors in Fondon 
when the British Parliament was debating whether missionaries 
should be permitted in East India Company’s domain under the 


Charter of 1813. He enclosed with his Note some “propaganda 
material used by the missionaries” and, referring to one missionary 
tract in particular, wrote: “The remainder of this tract seems to aim 
principally at a general massacre of the Brahmanas” (M. D. David 
(ed.). Western Colonialism in Asia and Christianity, Bombay, 1988, p. 
85). Anti-Brahmanism has become the dominant theme in the 
speeches and writings of Indian secularists of all sorts. 

- M.D. David (ed.), op. cit., p. 17. 

- Ibid., p. 19. 


- Ibid., pp. 24-35. For a detailed account of Christian doings in 
Goa, see A.K. Priolkar, The Goa Inquisition, Bombay, 1961, Voice of 
India reprint. New Delhi, 1991 and 1996. 

- Sisir Kumar Das, The Shadow of the Cross, New Delhi, 1974, p. 

4. 


- P. Thomas, Christians and Christianity in India and Pakistan, 
London,1954,p.114. 

- Sisir Kumar Das, op. cat., p. 5. 

- M. D. David (ed.), op. cit., p. 8. 


- The masquerade of Robert Di Nobili has been described in detail 
in Sita Ram Goel, Catholic Ashrams: Sannyasins or Swindlers?, 
Voice of India, New Delhi, 1995. 

— M.D. David (ed.), op. cit., p. 19. 



5 

From Monologue to Dialogue 

There is no known evidence of a dialogue between Hinduism and 
Christianity before the end of the seventeenth century, though by that time 
they had come into contact with one another on as many as four occasions. 
If individual Hindus and Christians ever exchanged any notes on the 
nature of God and soul and human destiny, the record was not kept or has 
not survived or is yet to surface. 

The history of Hindus goes to show that they were fond of discussing 
spiritual and philosophical themes till very recent times. Hinduism would 
have gladly entered into a dialogue with Christianity if the latter had 
evinced an inclination in that direction. But for a long time, Christianity 
was in no mood to hold a dialogue with any type of Paganism. It was 
convinced that it held a monopoly of truth which others had to accept from 
it in all humility. What it preferred was a monologue, that is, it alone 
talked and the others were made to listen. It was ensured in advance that 
the monologue was not disturbed by arguments from the other side. 

The Hindus in the far-off Roman Empire were too insignificant a 
minority to disturb the Christian monologue. The Syrian Christians in 
Malabar kept their counsels to themselves because the conditions were not 
conducive to a monologue. They came out in the open only when the 
Portuguese provided protection and saw to it that Hinduism kept mum. 
Christian travellers came to India not to see what India had to show but to 
secure concrete and visible proofs for what the Church Fathers had 
deduced about Paganism from the first premises of Christianity. They 
never felt the need to talk to Hindus in order to find out what Hinduism 
really stood for. 

The proper conditions for projecting a full and prolonged Christian 
monologue at Hinduism became ripe only when the Portuguese military 
machine arrived in Malabar. The missionaries did their best, but in spite of 
the fact that Hinduism had to observe silence, the monologue misfired. 
Instead of inspiring respect for Christianity and winning willing converts, 
it filled the Hindus with contempt for Christianity. The reports of Hindu 



reaction which reached the mission headquarters through its intelligence 
network were far from encouraging. 

The school of Francis Xavier was all for augmenting the degree of 
force used in the advancement of the mission. The experience in Europe 
had proved that force could be Suite effective and Xavier and his Jesuits 
were prisoners of that experience. Frantic appeals were made to the king of 
Portugal to see that the secular arm of the Church was used with the 
utmost rigour and determination. But the experiment failed partly because 
Portugal did not have the manpower to match the situation and partly 
because in AD 1580 Portugal became federated with the Spanish crown 
which had other priorities elsewhere. 

The school of Robert Di Nobili believed that the heart of Hinduism 
could be reached by perfecting the fraud pioneered by Di Nobili. Of 
course, they did not use this word for their method. They preferred to call 
it condescensio, a Latin term coined by the Church Fathers and meaning 
“stooping down to conquer.” They had drawn on the example set by St. 
Paul. The only problem which the missionaries faced was the colour of 
their skins. It was the colour of his skin which had betrayed Di Nobili. 
That difficulty had to be overcome by the use of a suitable lotion. Father 
Poenco of the Madura Mission made an appeal in his Annual letter for 
1651. “Among my readers,” he wrote, “there will be some who could 
procure for us some lotion of ointment which could change the colour of 
our skin so that just as we have changed our dress, language, food and 
customs, we may also change our complexion and become like those 
around us, with whom we live... It is not necessary that the colour should 
be very dark; the most suitable will be between black and red or tawny. It 
would not matter if it could not be removed when once applied; we would 
willingly remain all our lives the ‘negroes’ of Jesus Christ, for the greater 
glory of God.”- But, unfortunately, no such lotion could be found and 
condescensio remained a pious aspiration until skin colour was eventually 
overcome with the induction of native missionaries. This also is an act of 
condescensio in the eyes of the white masters. 

A modification of the monologue was also attempted on one occasion. 
An odd missionary had a lurking suspicion that Hinduism was being 


allowed to get away with the impression of remaining unconquered simply 
because its spokesmen had not been permitted to have their say. The fact, 
however, was that they had nothing or very little to say, which could be 
proved by bringing them to an open debate. Annals of the mission do 
record “one instance of a public debate in sixteenth century Goa, when 
Jesuits, aided by a convert, deputed with pandits, forty of whom proving 
obstinate, were banished.”- The monologue was restored and never 
disturbed again in Portuguese possessions. 

The chances of the monologue yielding place to a dialogue would have 
remained dim so long as the Catholic Church monopolised the mission and 
the Portuguese retained their stranglehold over South India. But conditions 
started changing towards the second half of the seventeenth century. 
Portuguese power suffered a steep decline and Protestant missionaries 
started coming to the trade settlements which the Dutch and the Danes had 
set up on the eastern side of South India with the permission of local 
Hindu Rajas. 

Protestant missionaries were no less confident than their Catholic 
counterparts that Christianity possessed a monopoly of truth. Given a 
chance, they too would have thrust the “good news” down Hindu throats 
by force. But as there was no secular arm at their beck and call, they 
settled down to investigating why Hindus were resisting Christianity. 
Some of them learnt Tamil and Sanskrit and studied Hindu texts and thus 
had an opportunity to talk to Hindu Pandits who came to teach them. Some 
others travelled in the countryside to see first-hand how the simple Hindus 
lived and worshipped in the villages. 

A Dutch missionary, Abraham Rogerius, functioning from Pulicat 
between AD 1630 and 1640, assembled in a book whatever he had learnt 
about Hindu beliefs. His book. The Open Door to Secret Heathendom, was 
published posthumously in 1651. It was full of the same old Christian 
prattle about demons and devils, but it contained one ‘great discovery” 
which took Christendom by surprise. “Rogerius came to the definite 
conclusion,” writes Dr. S. Arasaratnam, “that the Hindus possessed the 
concept of a supreme divine being and paid homage to this being. This 
highest supreme being was worshipped in the form of one of the three 


major deities of Vishnu, Siva and Brahma. This led him to the general 
conclusion that the knowledge of God has always been present among 
men. We see here the germs of the idea that Hindus had discovered some 
eternal truths by means of natural light- that God had shed on all humanity. 
This light, he would assert, has remained dim and the vision blurred, and 
many have wandered away from this light. Rogerius ascribes the origin of 
this light among the Hindus to the revelation of Christ which had 
penetrated to different nations and peoples of the Indies. Something has 
remained of this light and he adduces in evidence the existence of 
Thomian Christians in Coromandel 

The German Lutheran missionary, Bartholomaeus Ziegenbalg, who 
reached the Danish settlement at Tarankampadi (which name he soon 
corrupted to Tranquebar) in 1796, would find out how “The original light 
of nature by which Tamil Hindus had seen God in his true nature had been 
subsequently dimmed by the wily brahmans who had surrounded it in a 
cocoon of foolish beliefs, in a multiplicity of gods, other celestial beings 
and demons, and a system of abstract philosophies concerning man and the 
soul.”- But before he could do that, he had to take the help of the 
Brahmanas themselves. That triggered the first recorded dialogue between 
Hinduism and Christianity. 

Footnotes: 

- ‘Roberto de Nobili and Adaption’ by S. Rajamanickam, S.J. in 
Indian Church History Review, December 1967, p. 88. 

- Richard Fox Young, Resistant Hinduism, Vienna, 1981, pp. 20- 
21. This scholarly Christian publication concludes that simply 
because Hinduism resisted Christianity instead of accommodating it, 
Hindu tolerance towards other religions is a myth. The author sees 
nothing wrong with the wanton Christian onslaught of which he 
himself provides prolific proof. On the contrary, the onslaught is 
eulogised as “evangelism” and treated as a duty as well as a birthright 
of every Christian. 


- Recently, Christian theologians have rephrased “natural light” to 
read “Cosmic Revelation” which they gallantly concede to the 
Hindus. Consistent with the logic of this changing language, Hindus 
have progressed from pagans to “natural men” to “cosmic men.” 
There is reason for them to feel flattered by this continuous 
promotion. Father Bede Griffiths has written a whole book. Cosmic 
Revelation, in which he presents this thesis. 

- S. Arasaratnam, ‘Protestant Christianity and South Indian 
Hinduism 1630-1730: Some Confrontations in Society and Beliefs’, 
Indian Church History Review, June 1981, pp. 17-18. 

- Ibid., p. 22. 



6 

Encounter in Tamil Nadu 


Ziegenbalg who was “the most aggressive evangelist of this period”- 
came from the Lutheran seminary at Halle in Germany. Ostensibly, the 
Lutheran mission to Tranquebar was patronised by Frederick IV, King of 
Denmark. But its real sponsor was the British Government who financed it 
through the Society for the Propagation of Christian Knowledge (SPCK), 
floated in 1798. This is obvious from The Epistle Dedicatory which J. 
Thomas Philipps attached to his English translation of Ziegenbalg’s 
Conferences with Brahmanas.- The Epistle is addressed to the King of 
England. “The following Conferences f wrote Philipps, “being an essay to 
recommend to the Heathens in the East Indies that faith, of which Your 
Majesty is the Glorious Defender, I have humbly presumed to lay them at 
your Royal Eeet, as a pledge of the indefatigable labours of the Protestant 
Missionaries sent thither by the King of Denmark. One of the Missionaries 
had the honour to be graciously received by Your Majesty here in London 
on his return to India. They have already acknowledged the charitable 
assistances they have received from Your Majesty’s subjects both in 
Europe and in the East Indies T The British invaders of India did not want 
to be known as patrons of Christianity till a more opportune time. 


The places where Ziegenbalg had built his mission stations were in the 
vicinity of great centres of Hindu learning such as Srirangam, Tanjore, 
Madura, Kanchi, Chidambram and Tirupathi. He travelled around, 
established contacts with the Brahmanas, and held as many as 54 
conversations with them. He recorded the conversations in some detail and 
passed them on to Halle which published them from 1715 onwards. “In a 
notable debate,” writes P. Thomas, “held under the auspices of the Dutch 
in Negapatnam, Ziegenbalg disputed with a Brahmin for five hours and far 
from converting the Brahmin, the missionary came away with an excess of 
admiration for the intellectual gifts of his adversary.”- Sometimes, the 


Brahmanas visited Ziegenbalg and held discourse with him. Only thirty- 
four of these conversations were translated and published in English in 
1719. The Preface to the English translation sums up the Brahmana’s 
“Divine Eaw sent from Heaven” in the following eight Precepts: 

I. Thou shalt not kill any living creature whatsoever it be, having 
life in the same: Eor thou art a creature of mine and so is it: Thou art 
endued with soul and it is endued with the same. Thou shalt not 
therefore spill the blood of anything that is mine. 


II. Thou shalt make a covenant with all thy five senses. Eirst, with 
thy eyes, that they behold not things that be evil. Secondly, with thy 
ears, that they hear not things that be evil. Thirdly, with thy tongue, 
that it speaks not things that be evil. Eourthly, with thy palate, that it 
takes nothing that be evil; as wine, or the flesh of living creatures. 
Eifthly, with thy hands, that they touch not things defiled. 


III. Thou shalt duly observe the times of devotion, thy washings, 
worshippings and prayers to the Eord thy God, with a pure and 
upright heart. 


IV. Thou shalt not tell false tales, or utter things untrue, by which 
thou mightest defraud thy brother in dealings, bargains or contracts; 
by this consenage to work thy own peculiar advantage. 


V. Thou shalt be charitable to the poor and administer to his need, 
meat, drink, and money, as his necessity requires, and thine own 
ability enableth thee to give. 



VI. Thou shall not oppress, injure or do violence to the poor, 
using thy power unjustly to the ruin and overthrow of thy brother. 


VII. Thou shall celebrate certain festivals; yet not pampering thy 
body with excess of anything; but shall observe certain seasons for 
fasting, and break off some hours by watching, that thou may’s! be 
fitter for devotion and holiness. 

VIII. Thou shall not steal from thy brother anything, however little it 
be, of things committed to thy trust in thy profession or calling; but 
content thyself with that which he shall give thee as thine hire; considering 
that thou has not right to that which another man calleth his.- 


Yet according to the same Preface, “there is not, perhaps, a more 
wicked race of men treading upon God’s earth.” “The Brahmanas”, it 
continues, “are the greatest impostors in the world; their talent lies in 
inventing new fables every day, and making them pass for 
incomprehensible mysteries among the vulgar.”- Whatever be the facts, 
Christian conclusions remain the same. That is because Christianity is 
compelled by its doctrine to be at war with other cultures, howsoever 
superior. 


The next thing which Ziegenbalg did in 1712 was to send a large 
number of letters to a selection of Hindus Brahmanas and non-Brahmanas 
- inviting answers to a number of questions. “The purpose of this 
correspondence,” writes Dr. H. Grafe, “as stated by Ziegenbalg, is 
threefold: 

1. To make for increased publicity of the missionaries’ work, 

2. To reach people whom they are not able to meet personally, 

3. To get better informed about Hinduism and particularly about Hindu 


objections to Christian Faith. In short: Publicity, evangelism and religious 
research, all these were in Ziegenbalg’s mind.”- 


Ziegenbalg attached to these letters a printed booklet. Abominable 
Heathenism, which described Hinduism as a state of ajhAna (ignorance) 
and accused it of five sins-idolatory, fornication, fraud, quarrel, witchcraft 
and laziness.- It was “the very first product of the Tamil Press at 
Tranquebar ‘inaugurating the modem era of Tamil book-printing’,” as 
H.W. Gensichen puts it.- 


The letters which Ziegenbalg received from Hindus in reply to his 
questions were translated by him into German and forwarded to Halle in 
two batches of 58 and 46. The theologian, A.H. Francke, who scrutinised 
them, flared up, “The missionaries were sent out to exterminate 
heathenism in India, not to spread heathen nonsense all over Europe.” 
When Ziegenbalg received the reprimand, he wrote back, “We should be 
of the opinion that such materials quite Certainty are suitable for 
communication to the public. Should you, however, find anything about 
which you have hesitations to communicate it to the public you have 
always the liberty to change, to improve, or omit the same in this as well as 
in other tracts .”- 


Finally, 99 letters were published, 55 in 1713 and 44 in 1717. Five 
letters were totally suppressed. No one knows how far the published ones 
were edited. The publication of the first batch, however, carried the 
following introduction: “On our part we could not decide in favour of 
withholding the Tamil correspondence from the public. True, it contains 
much which is partly foolish, partly detestable. Especially, it tells of 
fornication and impurity with which idol worship of our own past as well 
as Tamil worship are concerned. However, if we had omitted such things 
and communicated those good things only, which the heathens still 


recognise and possess by the light of nature, some might conceive of the 
false idea, that heathenism is not so bad and corrupt after all.”— 


We shall give only a summary of opinions which, according to these 
letters, Hindus had of Christianity. 


The most common reason given by Hindus of why they despised 
Christianity was that most Christians led a very unclean life - slaughtering 
and eating cows and other animals, guzzling strong drinks, not washing 
after easing themselves, not brushing their teeth before or after meals, 
spitting around in their houses, mating with their wives in menses, etc. 
One correspondent was more forthright. The Christians, he said, “beat and 
kill one another, swear, fornicate, play, do not give any help to travellers 
and pilgrims and concern themselves only with eating and drinking, 
beautiful dresses and the decoration of their houses.”— Ziegenbalg had 
himself observed that Christians were “so much debauched in their 
manners” and “so given to gluttony, drunkenness, lewdness, cursing, 
swearing, cheating, cozening” besides being “proud and insulting in their 
conduct” that many Indians, judging the religion by its effects upon its 
followers, “could not be inclined to embrace Christianity.”— 


Tamil Hindus were also telling Ziegenbalg that there was something 
seriously wrong with the doctrine which inculcated such beastly 
behaviour, particularly in the converts who were leading disciplined lives 
before they became Christians. Christian writers dismiss these Hindu 
observations as “superficial objections.” But Mahatma Gandhi, as we shall 
see, noticed the same behaviour of converts and advised the Christians to 
demonstrate by their living rather than preaching that they had a better 
doctrine. 


Hindus also pointed to the “hatred and persecution between various 
Christian sects”, leading to doubts as to which of them represented real 
Christianity. But more serious doubts were raised about Jesus, the god of 
the Christians. “To our reason,” they said, “it does not appear very sensible 
that they believe in a God who was tortured and killed by his own 
people.”— One correspondent asked, “Why did he at last have to hang on 
the cross like a thief? How is it possible that he being true God could 
die?”— Another correspondent put it more plainly: “Does it not seem the 
height of unreasonableness to suppose him to be the saviour of the world 
who was of mean parentage, had as mean an education, was persecuted by 
his countrymen, and at last was hanged by public Authority upon an 
infamous cross?”— Hindus found it hard to believe that Jesus was God and 
Son of God and Holy Ghost at the same time: “How is it possible that God 
who is only one nevertheless is threefold?”— 


Hindus had no use for the Christian doctrine of original sin. They held 
that “the bad sins spring out of one’s own wickedness, vice, evil will, 
haughtiness and corrupt desires of like nature,”— rather than inherited 
from Adam and Eve. They rejected outright the doctrine of free grace: 
“Nobody attains salvation for nothing, because God does not give his 
grace to those who are lazy and live like animals. There must he good 
works, sacrifice, worship, faith and love.”— One correspondent observed, 
“I have never seen hitherto any of all you Christians taking any care of the 
saving of his own soul by doing Penance for his sins: whereas we 
Malabarians undergo many tedious and long Penances, denying ourselves 
all the pleasures of this Life... But I see no such thing practis’d among you 
Christians.”— Another asked, “Will nobody else be saved in the world 
except Christians?” — 


The doctrine of ever-lasting punishment for “unbelievers” was found 
repugnant: “Seeing that we live in this world but a few years and our sinful 
Actions are, as to their Duration, transitory; why then should the 
Punishment be Eternal? The necessary proportion attending distributive 


justice, is not observ’d here.”— One correspondent asked, “If the evil ones 
are being condemned to hell, do they have to remain in hell or may hope 
for salvation afterwards?”— Another juxtaposed the Hindu doctrine of 
mukti for all creatures: “(It is) firmly believed, among us, that not only 
mankind but all Birds, and Beasts of the Fields, shall be Eternally Happy 
after many repeated Nativities or Regenerations, qualifying them for the 
Enjoyment of God.”— The central Christian sacrament also came in for 
criticism: “When they administer the Sacrament, they say that the bread is 
the holy body and they drink the holy blood of Christ, which I am at a loss 
to grasp.”— 


That exhausted the list. There was nothing else in Christianity which 
Hindus could examine specifically, however verbose Ziegenbalg might 
have been about the merits of his creed. 


Next, the Hindus turned to a defence of their own Sanatana Dharma. 
The first thing they said was that “we have a venerable Antiquity on our 
side” and that “we are an Ancient Nation, whose Religion is as old as the 
world itself.”— There was an implied advice that Christianity which was 
born only yesterday should have some sense of humility. 


Religion, it was pointed out, was not such a simple matter as the 
missionaries had assumed. It needed deep deliberation. “Every religion,” 
said one correspondent, “claims to be the only true religion. There is even 
dispute among the Tamilians whether Vishnu or Siva is the highest god... 
how can we accept a strange religion as long as we do not properly know 
the truth in our own.”— In reply to Ziegenbalg’s question, “why do the 
Tamilians not leave their false precepts and convert to the true precepts of 
Christianity?”, another correspondent replied, “You have to prove the 
presupposition of the question.”— 


Ziegenbalg’s most serious charge was that Hindus neglected One God 
and worshipped many others. One correspondent replied, “The One God is 
not being neglected even where a multitude of Gods is believed in because 
in them he alone is being worshipped, after they have obtained salvation 
through him.”— Another observed, “We teach the people to worship one 
only, and not many Gods; and the Notion of a plurality of Gods comes 
hence, viz., because God is variously represented under different names; 
Yet he is still but One God as Gold is but one, as to its kind, tho’ wrought 
into a Thousand different figures.”— Yet another replied, “Siva is not more 
than one, but has many names, Vishnu is not more than one... and one is 
all in all, and through him alone we attain to salvation, but not through 
anybody else.”— 


Hindus pointed out repeatedly that different religions are suited to 
different temperaments so that different nations have different religions. 
Chiding Ziegenbalg for prescribing one religion for all, a correspondent 
said, “Everything you write and speak amounts to contempt and total 
rejection of our religion and our worship of God... God is manifold in his 
creatures and manifold in his creations. Hence he wants also to be 
worshipped in manifold way.”— Another correspondent said the same 
thing more concretely: “For as Christ in Europe was made Man, so here 
our God Wischtnu— was born among us Malabarians, and as you hope for 
salvation through Christ, so we hope for salvation through Wischtnu, and 
to save you one way, and us another, is one of the Pastimes and Diversions 
of Almighty God.”— 


One of Ziegenbalg’s questions was whether “Hindu worship exists in 
external rites only or whether there is something in one word to it which is 
done from the heart of hearts.” One correspondent replied, “Yes, Eove, 
Faith, and Faithfulness, or in one word Bhakti are much more important 
than rites, and all external works are useless and vain without love, faith 


and faithfulness towards the Lord.”— Another explained, “Although the 
Supreme Being is present in all souls and there is faith and faithfulness in 
many men, whatever religion they adhere to, still this faith and faithfulness 
cannot be perceived and recognised in their hearts. It must find outward 
expression.”— In other words, a good life alone proves that there is inner 
faith. 


There is no evidence that Ziegenbalg ever pondered over what the 
Brahmanas had told him during his conversations with them or what his 
Hindu correspondents had conveyed to him. What we know is that he used 
the conversations as well as the correspondence for compiling two books 
Genealogy of Malabar Gods completed in 1711 and Malabar Heathendom 
completed in 1713 - in which he repeated all that he had said in his earlier 
book. Abominable Heathenism. The dialogue with Hindus had gone 
completely over his Christian head. 


In his Preface to Malabar Heathendom, he wrote: “Meanwhile, the 
clear exposure of this Indian heathenism may be regarded as a sign that 
God, at this time, intends to do some special thing for these heathens, and 
to visit them by granting them grace to be converted. He will thereby also 
try the Christian people in Europe to whom this is made known, if some 
will pity their condition, and think of means through which the Word of 
grace and all the means of salvation may be offered unto them effectually 
for their conversion.” Again, whatever be the facts, the conclusions drawn 
by Christian missionaries remain the same! 


The latter-day Christian historians, however, have understood what had 
really happened. “This encounter shows,” comments Dr. H. Grafe, “that 
Hindus seriously examined the challenge to their religion that came from 
Christianity. They were drawn into a dialogue of asking and replying, of 
accusing and excusing, and of trying to understand... However, although 
some subjects treated show considerable depth in spiritual quest, on the 


whole one cannot escape the impression that politeness and cautiousness 
exerted some restraint and the whole exchange was regarded as a sort of 
vanguard battle at which not all ammunition was used up.”— Dr. 
Arasaratnam observes, “It was now clear that Christian evangelism was 
going to be a hard, rigorous, intellectual grind and missionaries would 
come up against the custodians of Hindu tradition who would present the 
case for Hinduism.”— 

Footnotes: 

- S. Arasaratnam, op.cit., p. 20 

- Thirty-Four Conferences Between the Danish Missionaries and 
Malabarian Brahmans (or Heathen Priests) in the East Indies, 
London, 1719. The Brahmanas referred to were really from Tamil 
Nadu. But Christian missionaries in that period were too full of 
Malabar to make the distinction. 

- P. Thomas, op. cit., pp. 153-154. 

- Thirty-Four Conferences, pp. v-viii. 

- Ibid., pp. iii-iv. 

- ‘Hindu Apologetics at the Beginning of the Protestant Mission 
Era in India’, by H. Grafe in Indian Church History Review, June, 
1972, p. 48. 


- Ibid., P. 64. 


- Ibid., p. 58. 

- Francke and Ziegenbalg quoted in Ibid., p. 46. Emphasis added. 

— Ibid., p. 47. Emphasis added. 

— Ibid., p. 55. 


— R. C. Majumdar (ed.), The History and Culture of the Indian 
People, Volume X: British Paramountcy And Indian Renaissance, 
Part II, 2nd edition, Bombay, 1981, p. 150. 

— Quoted in H. Grafe, op. cit., p. 56. 

— Ibid., p. 57. 

— Quoted in Richard Fox Young, op. cit., p. 24. 

— Quoted in H. Grafe, op. cit., p. 56. 

— Quoted in Ibid., p. 63. 

— Quoted in Ibid., p. 56. 

— Quoted in Richard Fox Young, op. cit., p. 24. 

— Quoted in H. Grafe, op. cit., p. 57. 

— Quoted in Richard Fox Young, op. cit., p. 24. 

— Quoted in H. Grafe, op. cit., p. 57. 

— Quoted in Richard Fox Young, op. cit., p. 24. 

— Quoted in H. Grafe, op. cit., p. 55. 

— Quoted in Richard Fox Young, op. cit., p. 23. 

— Quoted in H. Grafe, op. cit., p. 61. 

— Quoted in Ibid., p. 64. 

— Quoted in Ibid., p. 60. 

— Quoted in Richard Fox Young, op. cit., p. 24. 


— Quoted in H. Grafe, op. cit., p. 66. 

— Quoted in Ibid., p. 65. 

— The missionary spelling of Vishnu. 

— Quoted in Richard Fox Young, op. cit., p. 23. 

— Quoted by H. Grafe, op. cit., p. 66. 

— Quoted in Ibid., pp. 66-61. 

— H. Grafe, op. cit., pp. 68-69. 

— S. Arasaratnam, op. cit., p. 33. 


7 

Encounter at Pondicherry 


The following account of what the Christians did to Hindus in 
Pondicherry has been taken from the Diary maintained by Anand Ranga 
Pillai, scion of a Tamil merchant family from Madras. His family along 
with several others had migrated to Pondicherry at the invitation of the 
French who occupied that town as the headquarters of their possessions in 
India. These families had brought considerable prosperity to it. Pillai was 
appointed Chief Dubash towards the end of 1747, five years after M. 
Dupleix became the Governor of Pondicherry. He held the post till 1756, 
two years after Dupleix’s departure. He had, however, kept an account of 
what he saw and heard since September 1736. His Diary which was 
written in Tamil continued till 1761 when he died. 


The editor of the translation in English writes as follows regarding the 
treatment of Hindus in Pondicherry: “The religious policy pursued in the 
early part of the century at Pondicherry is remarkable. It appears to have 
been ordered that no temple should be repaired; Nainiyappau was ordered 
to be converted within six months under pain of losing his post as Chief 
Dubash; Hindu festivals were prohibited on Sundays and the principal 
Christian feasts; even when these regulations had caused the greater part of 
the town to be deserted, the Jesuits urged that a temple should be pulled 
down instead of conciliatory measures being employed. (Registre des 
deliberations du Conseil Souverin, i, pp.l25, 140, 142, 153 etc. This 
valuable collection of documents is being printed by the ‘Societe di 
I’Histoire de ITnde Francaise’ at Pondicherry.) It is difficult to avoid the 
conclusion that in this zealous proselytising policy lies one reason why 
Pondicherry was far inferior to Madras as a commercial centre; and 
perhaps the same cause also contributed to the absolute failure of 
Dupleix’s efforts to induce the Madras merchants to settle under the 
French.”- 


The Vedapuri Iswaran Temple was the principal place of worship for 
the Hindus of Pondicherry. The Jesuit missionaries built the Church of St. 
Paul adjacent to it and obtained an order from the King of France that the 
Hindu temple should be destroyed. It could not be done due to strong 
resistance from the Hindus who constituted the most important native 
community in the town. Pillai gives an account of how the temple was 
desecrated repeatedly by the Jesuits and finally destroyed with active help 
from the French establishment, particularly Madame Dupleix. 


The first incident at the Vedapuri Temple took place on March 17, 
1746. “On Wednesday night at 11,” writes Pillai, “two unknown persons 
entered the Iswaran temple carrying in a vessel of liquid filth, which they 
poured on the heads of the gods around the altar, and into the temple, 
through the drain of the shrine of Iswaran; and having broken the pot of 
dirt on the image of the god Nandi, they went away through apart of the 
building which had been demolished. Early this morning, when the 
Nambiyan and the servants of the temple, opening the main gate, entered, 
and saw the nuisance which had been committed, they at once reported the 
matter to their superiors, and to the Mahanattars; and bringing them to the 
spot, showed them what had been done.”- 


As the report of this sacrilege spread, Hindus, “from the Brahman to 
the pariah”, held a public meeting. The Governor, Dupleix, when he heard 
of it, sent his chief peon to disperse the meeting. The peon “struck a Chetti 
on the cheek” and ordered the people to go away. The people, however, 
defied the order and protested, “You better kill us all.”- 


When this resistance was reported to the Governor, he sent for some 
Hindu leaders. He reprimanded them but promised to settle the matter in 
consulation with Pillai who was present. “No sooner,” continues Pillai, 


“had the Mahanattars departed than from 100 to 200 Muhammadans of 
Mahe appeared before the Governor, for the purpose of shooting them [the 
Hindus]. As prior to the arrival of these, the Mahanattars had consented to 
a settlement, he directed the Muhammadans to guard the four gates, so that 
they could not go out. They obeyed this order. All this took place before 4 
this afternoon. What will occur hereafter is not known.”- He does not 
record what settlement, if any, was arrived at. 


The next incident recorded by Pillai took place on December 31, 1746. 
“It was reported,” he writes, “to-night at 7, that an earthen jar, filled with 
filth, was thrown from within the grounds of the Church of St. Paul, into 
the temple of Vedapuri Iswaran. It very nearly fell on the head of Sankara 
Aiyan, who was at the shrine of the god Pillaiyar, on his way round the 
temple, in the performance of religious duties. When the jar struck the 
ground, and broke to pieces, the stench emitted was unbearable 


The outrage was reported to Pillai by ten men including some “heads 
of castes.” He made a representation to the Governor who deputed some 
councillors to “inspect the place.” But before the officials could start on 
their job, they were briefed privately by Madame Dupleix, the Governor’s 
wife, who was in league with the priests of St. Paul. An inspection at the 
temple followed. “The gentlemen,” continues Pillai, “then entered the 
temple, smelt the broken jar, pronounced that it had contained filth, and 
judging by the position of the scattered fragments, arrived at the decision 
that it must have been thrown from the church, and that there could be no 
mistake on that point .”- 


But before a report could be submitted to the Governor, a member of 
the team insisted that the “priests should be consulted.” So the team went 
to the church and rang its bell. “On hearing the sound,” records Pillai, “the 
senior priest. Father Coeurdoux, came out, and opening the door, asked the 
business that had brought them there. They then explained what had taken 


place. They remarked that, from the position of the pieces of the broken 
jar, and an examination of the ground about the temple and church, there 
could be no doubt that the direction from which the jar came was that of 
the latter. They also noticed that the stones at the base of the temple wall 
on the side of the church had all been pulled down. When those holding 
the investigation urged that this was not right, the priest exclaimed: ‘It was 
not our doing. They, themselves, must have dug them out, with the view of 
lodging a complaint, and getting the wall, which is in a ruinous state, 
restored. 


Finally, a report was made to the Governor that “the complaint made 
was true, and that the priests of the Church of St. Paul were responsible.” 
The Governor asked for a written report and exclaimed, “I will not only 
write to France regarding this affair, but will also take such action with 
respect to it, that the priests of the Church of St. Paul will ever remember 
it.”- But he went to bed soon after and did not remember the matter when 
he rose next morning. 


Pillai, however, brought it to his notice. The Governor told him that 
“with a view to making the people of the Church of St. Paul smart for what 
they had done, he would consult with the members of the Council and take 
measures accordingly.”- Next, the Governor himself accompanied Pillai to 
the church in order to make further enquiries. The priests who used to be 
warm when meeting Pillai were now dead cold towards him, “the reason 
being that they thought it was I who had brought the matter of the filth 
being thrown into the Vedapuri Iswaran temple, on the previous night, to 
the notice of the Governor, and had him to send the Councillors, to inquire 
regarding it.”— 


The Governor agreed to meet the Mahanattars on January 5, 1747 and 
listen to their complaint about desecration of the temple. In the morning of 
that day, however, he asked Pillai to advise the Mahanattars not to raise the 


question of the temple when they met him. Pillai advised them accordingly 
and in private when they arrived. But “in spite of my advice they began to 
do so” and the Governor “rose up, addressed a few kind words to them and 
went into his wife’s room.”— That was the end of the matter so far as the 
second incident was concerned. 


Pillai started functioning as the Chief Dubash when the earlier 
incumbent who was a native Christian and had held the post for 20 years, 
died on June 25, 1747. His formal appointment, however, was still in the 
future. The Jesuits became more and more hostile to him because they 
thought he was coming in the way of their demolition of the Hindu temple. 
The Governor had a low opinion of the Jesuits whom he regarded as 
“deceitful people.” But he was under pressure from Christians in the town 
and advised Pillai to meet the Superior in the Church of St. Paul and try to 
improve his relations with them. 


The Superior who was no other than that criminal. Father Coeurdoux, 
asked Pillai to become a Christian when he met him on September 20, 
1747. “We all know,” said Father Coeurdoux, “that you belong to a 
respectable family that has been held in esteem for generations... But if 
you had been a Christian, many others would have become so too.”— Pillai 
was surprised and protested that he had always been impartial between 
Hindus and Christians. But the priest persisted, “Say that you will, I am 
sure that all will become Christian if only you would set the example. We 
should be quite satisfied with you as Chief Dubash if you were a Christian. 
As you are not, we have had several times to urge M. Dupleix to appoint 
one. We have written to Europe, and we will write again. We shall do our 
utmost, we will speak in the Council, for we have got a letter from the 
King that the post must be reserved for Christians.”— He also asked Pillai 
“to explain to the heads of castes the orders about the Vedapuri Iswaran 
temple”, to which Pillai replied that he “would spare no pains.”— 


A man named Annapurna Ayyan came to Pillai on October 8 and 
reported, “Louis Prakasan came and told me that the Karikal priest 
[Coeurdoux] wished to see me. When I went to him, he told me I was a 
good man, always did as they wished, and there was a favour I must 
promise them. I asked what it was that I could do. He said he had heard 
that you [Pillai] would do whatever I asked, and I was therefore to ask you 
to get the Vedapuri Iswaran Temple pulled down. I told him it was 
impossible, that you would never listen to me, and that, had it been 
possible, Kanakaraya Mudali— would have got it done. The priest 
answered that he [Mudali] did not because he was a Christian and besides 
he was not so clever as you. He said you could persuade people with a 
thousand reasons, put your opponents to silence, and do as you pleased. If 
I explained the matter to you and got the temple removed, he promised 
they never would forget it so long as their church lasted. That is what he 
told me.”— Pillai laughed and said that “they were always saying things 
like that.” But he suspected that Ayyan had “promised his [Pillai’s] 
assistance to the priests.”— 


The Jesuits succeeded in destroying the temple in September 1748 
when Pondicherry was besieged by the British and the bulk of the Hindu 
population had moved out of the town. “This morning,” writes Pillai in his 
Diary for September 7, “tents were pitched round St. Paul’s Church, and 
two hundred soldiers and a hundred sepoys were quartered there. The 
Governor, M. Paradis and others went thither and desired that a mortar 
might be mounted there. But they asked that the Iswaran temple should be 
pulled down. I think the Governor may have arranged (through Madame) 
for their help in certain Europe matters; so, as this is a time of war, there 
was much talk, a council was held, and the priests were told that the 
Iswaran temple would be demolished. The Governor then went home.”— 


Pillai was very unhappy when he heard the news, “The Governor,” he 
wrote, “has dishonoured himself. Firstly, he has listened to his wife’s 
words and allowed her to manage all affairs and give all orders... The 


priests of St. Paul’s Church have been trying for the last fifty years to pull 
down the Vedapuri Iswaran temple; former Governors said that this was 
the country of the Tamils, that they would earn dishonour if they interfered 
with the temple, that the merchants would cease to come here, and that the 
town would decay; they even set aside the king’s order to demolish the 
temple; and their glory shone like the sun. But the Governor listens to his 
wife and has ordered the temple to be destroyed, thereby adding shame to 
his dishonour,”— 


The temple was now doomed to destruction. “Yesterday,” Pillai 
continued in his Diary of September 8, “200 soldiers, 60 or 70 troopers 
and sepoys were stationed at St. Paul’s Church in view of the matter in 
hand. This morning, M. Gerbault (the Engineer), the priests with diggers, 
masons, coolies and others, 200 in all, with spades, pick-axes and 
whatever is needed to demolish walls, began to pull down the southern 
wall of the Vedapuri Iswaran temple and the out-houses. At once the 
temple managers. Brahmans and mendicants came and told me.”— 


Pillai recollected how the Governor had been working to this end since 
his arrival. “Before M. Dupleix,” he observed, “was made Governor, and 
when he was only a Councillor, all the Europeans and some Tamils used to 
say that if he became Governor, he would destroy the Iswaran temple. The 
saying has come to pass. Ever since his appointment, he has been seeking 
to do so, but he has had no opportunity. He tried to get Muttayya Pillai to 
do it in May or June 1743. But the latter would not consent, though the 
Governor threatened to cut his ears off and beat him publicly and even to 
hang him.”— 


He reflected on the situation that had been deliberately created by the 
Governor, taking advantage of the British invasion. “The Governor,” he 
wrote, “allowed the Brahmans to depart, because ten or twenty of them 
might be bold enough to suffer death, and because he suspected them of 


being spies; but he ordered that those who went should not be readmitted, 
thus taking advantage of the war to get rid of the Brahmans, though other 
caste people might return. So all, both men and women, had departed. 
Besides, he has posted soldiers to frighten away even fifty or a hundred 
persons, should so many come to speak on behalf of the Brahmans. The 
four gates of the Fort have been closed by reason of the troubles; and he 
has ordered the destruction of the temple. What can we do? There are not 
even ten of the heads of castes to assemble and speak. We can do nothing, 
because he has taken advantage of this time of war to accomplish his 
longstanding object and demolish the temple.”— 


So Pillai advised the Brahmans that “they could do nothing but remove 
the images and other things to the Kalahasti Iswaran temple.” But they did 
not agree with him and said, “We will speak to the Governor about it, and 
tell him that if he insists, some of us will die and none will care to remain 
here.”— He told them that the Governor had made up his mind, that he was 
not likely to listen to them, that the temple was already being demolished, 
and that the only thing that could be done was to save the images and other 
sacred articles. “I heard just now,” he said to them, “that the southern wall 
and the out-houses had been pulled down, and that they were demolishing 
the Arthamantapam and Mahamantapam. Don’t delay. Remember how 
blindly matters are being driven on. The St. Paul’s priests will send the 
European soldiers, Coffrees, Topasses, and even their parish converts with 
clubs into the temple to carry away, break and damage all they can. If you 
complain, they will only beat you. So you will lose not only the temple, 
but also the articles, the images used in the festivals, the Pillaiyar and all 
the other images. Any one can do what he pleases here now, and there is 
no man to question him. Still worse is it in matters connected with our 
temples. By his wife’s advice, M. Dupleix has accomplished what has 
been attempted in vain for the last fifty years. But now the time has come. 
I cannot describe the boundless joy of the St. Paul’s priests, the Tamil and 
pariha converts, Madame Dupleix and M. Dupleix. In their delight, they 
will surely enter the temple, and will not depart, without breaking and 
trampling under foot the idols and destroying all they can. So go quickly 
and remove all the articles.”— 


More news came in quick succession. “Just then,” proceeds Pillai, 
“news was brought that Father Coeurdoux, the Superior of St. Paul’s 
Church, had kicked the inner shrine with his foot, and had ordered the 
Coffrees to remove the doors, and the Christians to break the 
Vahanams.”— He now went to the Governor, hoping that the latter would 
himself mention the subject. But the Governor did not, as if he was unware 
of what was being done. Some ten heads of castes also arrived and 
“salaamed the Governor.” The Governor did not talk to them directly but 
asked Varlam, a native Christian, to find from them what they wanted. 
Varlam told him that “they sought his permission to remove the articles 
from the temple which was being destroyed.” The Governor “gave them 
the permission but told the peons to beat and disperse the crowd.”— 


The Governor’s permission, however, served no purpose. Pillai 
records: 


“I heard that the priests of St. Paul’s Church told the Coffrees, soldiers 
and pariahs to beat the heads of castes when they went to the temple to 
remove their articles. They were scarcely suffered to approach the temple, 
and when they were removing the Vahanams, shoulder-poles and temple 
documents, each man was beaten twenty or thirty times. It was with 
extreme difficulty that they rescued the idols used in the processions and 
the Pillaiyar. 


“Then Father Coeurdoux of Karikal came with a great hammer, kicked 
the lingam, broke it with his hammer, and ordered the Coffrees and the 
Europeans to break the images of Vishnu and the other gods. Madame 
went and told the priest that he might break the idols as he pleased. He 
answered that she had accomplished what had been impossible for fifty 
years, that she must be one of those Mahatmas who established this 


religion [Christianity] in old days, and that he would publish her fame 
throughout the world. So saying he dismissed them. 


“Then Varlam also kicked the great lingam nine or ten times with his 
sandals in the presence of Madame and priest, and spat on it, out of 
gladness, and hoping that the priest and Madame would regard him also as 
a Mahatma. Then he followed Madame. I can neither write nor describe 
what abominations were done in the temple. I know not what fruit they 
will reap. All the Tamils think that the end of the world has come. The 
priests, the Tamil Christians, the Governor and his wife are more delighted 
than they have ever been before, but they have not yet considered what 
will befall them infuture.”— 


Filial learnt later on that “the temple had been levelled with the ground 
and that the whole people were troubled at heart.” He reflected, “The wise 
men will say that the glory of an image is as short-lived as human 
happiness. The temple was destined to remain glorious till now, but now 
has fallen.”— 

Footnotes: 

- The Private Diary ofAnand Ranga Pillai translated from Tamil 
by Rev. J. Frederick Price and K. Rangachari, Madras, 1904, Volume 
IV, p. 144, Footnote. 

- Ibid., Volume I, p. 332. Filth was quite an appropriate weapon 
for the filth that Christianity has been all along. 

^ Ibid., P.333. 

- Ibid., p. 334. Muhammadan hoodlums have always been 
available to whosoever wants to torment the Hindus in India or 
elsewhere. 


- Ibid., Volume III, p. 220. The stench symbolized the stench 
which Christian missionaries spread wherever they are present. 

-Ibid., p. 221. 

- Ibid., pp. 221-222. Father Coeurdoux’s logic was unbeatable. It 
represented the way the missionary mind has always functioned. 

^ Ibid., ^.222. 

^ Ibid., ^.224. 

^ Ibid., p. 225. 

^ Ibid., p. 231. 

— Ibid., Volume IV, pp. 147-48. 

^Ibid., pp. 149-50. 

— Ibid., p. 151. The reference is to the order from the King of 
France that the temple be destroyed. 

— The earlier Chief Dubash. 

— Ibid., pp. 164-65. 

— Ibid., p. 166. 

— Ibid., Volume V, pp. 295-96. 

^ Ibid.,^.291. 

^Ibid., pp. 229-300. 

— Ibid., p. 300. 

'^Ibid., pp. 301-02. 


^ Ibid.,^.3^2. 

Ibid.,^.306. 

— Ibid., p. 307. 

2^/^iW.,p.308. 

^Ibid., pp. 310-311. 

— Ibid., p. 312.1 summarized Pillai’s story in three paras in a 
letter to The Statesman when the Cathedral occupying the site of the 
Vedapuri Iswaran Temple was in the news in early 1995. The daily 
had been publishing aggressive letters from Christians, pleading 
innocence and accusing Hindus of inventing stories. But my letter 
was ignored. I also tried to get the story published in the Organiser, 
the mouthpiece of the Sangh Parivar. In this, too, I failed. 


8 

Encounter with Raja Ram Mohun Roy 


The next significant dialogue between Hinduism and Christianity 
commenced more than a hundred years later, in 1820 to be exact. The 
venue was Calcutta. Raja Ram Mohun Roy was ranged on one side and the 
Serampore Missionaries on the other. By that time, British arms had 
subdued the whole of India except Ranjit Singh’s Sikh state beyond the 
Satlaj. Calcutta had emerged not only as the premier city of the British 
empire in India but also as the storm centre of Christianity. 


Bengal had known Christianity since the days of Portuguese pirates in 
the sixteenth and the seventeenth centuries. Small wonder that, in the 
Bengali mind, it was associated with savagery. Some missionaries who 
came with the Portuguese had, however, learnt the Bengali language and 
composed a few tracts, attacking Hinduism and selling Christianity. Dom 
Antonio had written even a BrAhman-Roman Catholic SambAd 
“containing imaginary dialogues between a Brahmin and a Roman 
Catholic Christian.”- Some Protestant missions had also worked in 
Calcutta and Serampore from AD 1758 to 1791. But Christianity had 
failed to have any impact in Bengal till the foundation of the Baptist 
Mission at Serampore in 1800 under the leadership of Williams Carey 
(1761-1834). 


Carey, a cobbler by profession, had published a book. An Enquiry into 
the Obligations of Christians to use means for the Conversion of the 
Heathens, in 1792 while he was still in England. He had also organised 
The Particular Baptist Society for Propagating the Gospel Among the 
Heathens. He was noticed by a prosperous doctor who was coming to 
Calcutta in 1793 and brought along for preaching Christianity. Carey 
worked at several places in Bengal for seven years without winning a 


single convert; his only achievement was a Bengali translation of the 
Bible. 


Another group of missionaries including Joshua Marshman and 
William Ward arrived in Calcutta in 1799. The East India Company’s 
government was still maintaining the pretence of non-interference in the 
religion of the natives. So the missionaries were diverted to Serampore 
which was a Danish settlement like Tranquebar. They were joined there by 
Carey and together they founded the Baptist Mission on January 10, 1800. 
The same year they made their first convert, a Bengali Hindu named 
Krishna Chandra Pal. In 1801 Carey was appointed a teacher in the Fort 
William College at Calcutta where he polished his Bengali and Sanskrit in 
the company of Hindu Pandits. 


The Serampore Missionaries did not make any headway in securing 
converts but they used their time profitably in collecting materials 
“derogatory” to Hinduism. This “evidence” was supplied by them to 
William Wilberforce and party who were agitating in England for opening 
the Indian field to Christian missionaries. There were some Englishmen in 
India as well as in England who were sincere admirers of Hindu culture 
and convinced that Christianity had nothing to teach to the Hindus. They 
presented their case forcefully in the British Parliament when the Charter 
of the East India Company came up for renewal in 1813. “A number of 
people,” writes Dr. R.C. Majumdar, “including Wilberforce, sought to 
refute these arguments by painting in black colours the horrible customs of 
the Hindus such as sati, infanticide, throwing the children into the Ganga, 
religious suicides, and above all, idolatry. Vivid descriptions were given of 
the massacare of the innocents resulting from the car procession of Ford 
Jagannath at Puri, and the Baptists put down the number of annual victims 
at not less than 120,000. ‘When challenged they had to admit that they did 
not actually count the dead bodies but arrived at the figure by an ingenious 
calculation.’”- 


Wilberforce won the day. Missionaries were given full freedom to 
enter India and propagate their criminal creed. The main reason for his 
victory was the collapse of Maratha power which had so far prevented the 
British government from patronising Christianity openly. “The 
consequence,” continues Dr. Majumdar, “was a heavy influx of 
missionaries into India from England and America. They first directed 
their attention to the East India Company and asked them to give up such 
practices as might be construed as indirect sympathy or support for 
heathen practices. In particular, they took umbrage at the management of 
temples by the Company’s Government, a task which they had taken over 
from their Hindu predecessors and was described by the missionaries as 
‘the office of dry nurse of Vishnu’.”- Many white officials of the Company 
also started supporting the missionaries and interfering with religious 
institutions and practices of the native people. 


Meanwhile, the triumph of British arms had swelled the head of the 
ruling race and turned it against the vanquished. Charles Grant (1746- 
1823), some time Chairman of the East India Company, had written in AD 
1697 that “we cannot avoid recognising in the people of Indostan a race of 
man lamentably degenerate and base... governed by malevolent and 
licentious passions... and sunk in misery by their vices.”- Claudius 
Buchanan, a chaplain attached to the East India Company, counted himself 
among those who had known the Hindus for a long time. He had 
concluded, “Those, who have had the best opportunities of knowing them, 
and who have known them for the longest time, concur in declaring that 
neither truth, nor honesty, honour, gratitude, nor charity, is to be found 
pure in the breast of a Hindoo. How can it be otherwise? The Hindoo 
children have no moral instruction. If the inhabitants of the British isles 
had no moral instruction, would they be moral? The Hindoos have no 
moral books. What branch of their mythology has not more of falsehood 
and vice in it, than of truth and virtue? They have no moral gods. The 
robber and the prostitute lift up their hands with the infant and the priest, 
before an horrible idol of clay painted red, deformed and disgusting as the 
vices which are practised before it.”- 


Buchanan was convinced that God had given the Company dominion 
over India for the specific purpose of India’s Christianization. “No 
Christian nation,” he wrote, “ever possessed such an extensive field for the 
propagation of the Christian faith, as that afforded to us by our influence 
over the hundred mill ion natives of Hindoostan. No other nation ever 
possessed such facilities for the extension of the faith as we have in the 
government of a passive people, who yield submissively to our mild sway, 
reverence our principles, and acknowledge our dominion to be a blessing. 
Why should it be thought incredible that Providence hath been pleased, in 
a course of years to subjugate this Eastern empire to the most civilised 
nation in the world, for this very purpose?”- His conviction was fully 
shared by William Wilberfore who proclaimed in the British Parliament in 
June 1813, “Our religion is sublime, pure and beneficent. Theirs is mean, 
licentious, and cruel. Of our civil principles and condition, the common 
right of all ranks and classes to be governed, and punished by equal laws, 
is the fundamental principle. Equality, in short, is the vital essence and the 
very glory of our English laws. Of theirs, the essential and universal 
pervading general character is inequality, despotism in the higher classes, 
degradation and oppression in the lower.”- 


Eord Hastings wrote in his diary on October 2, 1813, the day he 
arrived in India as Governor General, that, “The Hindoo appears a being 
nearly limited to mere animal functions... with no higher intellect than a 
dog or an elephant or a monkey, might be supposed capable of attaining.” 
John Stuart Mill, the British historian, did not lag behind and wrote in 
1819 that “In truth, the Hindu, like the eunuch, excels in the qualities of a 
slave.”- Now the missionaries added their own invectives derived from 
“divine wrath”. Hindu society was soon faced with a filthy smear 
companion. 


It has to be remembered that most of the missionaries came from the 
lowest strata of Western society. Their motive in joining the mission was 
not entirely a love for Jesus. Dr. Dick Kooiman has studied the social 
background of some nineteenth century missionaries. He says that their 
“spiritual motives did not exclude the possibility of missionary 
employment bringing substantial improvement in their social and 
economic position, whether anticipated or not.”- most of them had no 
formal education. They were trained in theological seminaries where they 
crammed the set doctrines. At the same time, they became experts in the 
use of foul language which abounds in the Bible vis-a-vis non-believers. 
Like their paymasters at home and in India, most of them were plain 
scoundrels in the service of an Evil Spirit which inspired their creed from 
A to Z. It was not surprising that their manners and parlance remained 
beastly and brutal. They “occupied a rather humble position,”— in the 
British social order in India. But all the same, they shared the arrogance of 
the ruling race and inspired awe among the natives. 


Hindu society experienced a deep resentment when these hoodlums of 
Jesus Christ were let loose upon it, but there was nothing that could be 
done to stop them immediately. The coercive apparatus of the Raj was-on 
the side of the miscreants. Raja Ram Mohun Foy contemplated the scene 
with a cool head. He was a scholar and a social reformer who had so far 
shown admiration for the British Raj as well as Jesus. He had met and 
conversed with some leading missionaries and mastered the Christian 
scriptures after studying Greek and Hebrew. For a long time, the 
missionaries had thought he was their man and were waiting for him to 
embrace the “only true faith”. On the other hand, he had aroused hostility 
in Hindu society by openly speaking and writing against its traditional 
religion and social customs. No one suspected that the missionaries had 
pained and disgusted him deeply. 


One wonders whether the Raja related the crude missionary methods 
directly to Christian dogmas such as the divinity of Jesus, his miracles, his 


atoning death and his resurrection. Perhaps his perceptions were derived 
from his rigorous monotheism which he had expounded in his Persian 
monograph, TuhfAt-ul-MuhawwidIn. What is known for sure is that he 
presented the founder of Christianity only as a moral preacher in his book, 
The Precepts of Jesus, published in 1820. It was a compilation from the 
four gospels. “Rammohan had left out,” writes Dr. Sisir Kumar Das, “all 
passages in these gospels which describe either any miracle or refer to any 
prophecy or to the doctrines of atonement. Logos or the divinity of 
Christ... Rammohan is almost ruthless in his rejection of materials from 
the fourth gospel which is... the most important interpretation of Christ’s 
teaching and the meaning of his life and death on the cross.”— The fourth 
gospel is the most suspect of all the New Testament books. Certainly its 
author is unknown. Yet it remains perhaps the most important book for 
Christian dogma. 


The missionaries were taken aback. The book was reviewed in the 
missionary magazine. Friend of India,— by Deocar Schmit. Joshua 
Marshman, the Serampore Missionary who edited the paper, introduced 
Ram Mohun as “an intelligent heathen whose mind is as yet completely 
opposed to the grand design of the Saviour’s becoming incarnate.” The 
reviewer himself reprimanded the Raja for “separating the moral doctrines 
of the New Testament from the mysteries and historical matters contained 
therein.” Ram Mohun was now labelled as “an injurer of the cause of 
truth.”— A dialogue was round the corner if the Raja chose to defend his 
position. 


He did, and published immediately An Appeal to the Christian Public 
in Defence of the Precepts of Jesus. Marshman was now angry and made 
“a fiery criticism.”— Ram Mohun followed up in 1821 with a Second 
Appeal in which he came out with criticism of the divinity of Jesus and the 
doctrine of Trinity. Marshman defended both and became more angry. 
Ram Mohun wrote his Final Appeal in 1823 “with a formidable array of 
Hebrew and Greek quotations.”— Before we take up his demolition of the 


central Christian dogmas, it would be worthwhile to mention his work on 
another front. 


He had started publishing in 1821 a bilingual periodical, The 
Brahmanical Magazine, in Bengali and English. In the very first issue he 
had launched a spirited attack on missionary methods. “During the last 
twenty years,” he wrote, “a body of English gentlemen, who are called 
missionaries, have been publicly endeavouring, in several ways, to convert 
Hindus and Mussalmans of this country into Christianity. The first way is 
that of publishing and distributing among the natives various books, large 
and small, reviling both religions and abusing and ridiculing the gods and 
saints of the former: the second way is that of standing in front of the 
doors of the natives or in the public roads to preach the excellency of their 
own religion and the debasedness of that of others: the third way is that if 
any natives of low origin become Christians from the desire of gain or 
from any other motives, these gentlemen employ and maintain them as a 
necessary encouragement to others to follow their example... Were the 
missionaries likewise to preach the Gospel and distribute books in 
countries not conquered by the English, such as Turkey, Persia, etc., which 
are much nearer England, they would be esteemed a body of men truly 
zealous in propagating religion and in following the example of the 
founders of Christianity. In Bengal, where the English are the sole rulers, 
and where the mere name of Englishman is sufficient to frighten people, an 
encroachment upon the rights of her poor, timid and humble inhabitants 
and upon their religion cannot be viewed in the eyes of God or the public 
as a justifiable act. Eor wise and good men always feel disinclined to hurt 
those that are of much less strength than themselves, and if such weak 
creatures be dependent on them and subject to their authority, they can 
never attempt, even in thought, to mortify their feelings.”— 


In the same issue, he “hinted at the indirect support of the Government 
in the missionary activities.”— He objected to the language used in the 
Friend of India for Hindus and Hinduism. He called upon the missionaries 


to have a fair debate. “To abuse and insult,” he said, “is inconsistent with 
reason and justice. If by force of argument they can prove the truth of their 
own religion and the falsity of that of Hindus, many would of course, 
embrace their doctrines, and in case they fail to prove this, they should not 
undergo such useless trouble to tease Hindus any longer by their attempts 
at conversion.”— He continued, “They should not abstain from a debate 
considering the humble way of living of Brahmin scholars because Truth 
and Virtue do not necessarily belong to wealth and Power and Distinctions 
of Big Mansions.”— 


The Raja not only knew the Christian scriptures and theology at least 
as well if not better as any missionary, he was also aware that Christianity 
was divided into many sects, each at war with all others. He was well 
aware that the language which Christian sects hurled at each other was not 
much better if not worse than that which Christian missionaries were 
hurling at Hinduism. But his greatest asset was his knowledge of the 
humanist and rationalist critique of Christianity which had come to the 
fore in the modern West. That came to his help when he presented his case 
progressively in his three appeals. 


“In the nineteenth Century,” writes Richard Fox Young, “Christianity’s 
advocates in India were sometimes required to answer arguments drawn 
from non-orthodox Western scholars. Rammohan Roy, for instance, 
studied the literature of Unitarians and freethinkers who documented the 
rise’ of Trinitarian theology in order to prove its allegedly unbibilical 
origin. The findings buttressed Roy’s critique of ‘Christian polytheism’. 
Evangelical missionaries (e.g. John Marshman) were greatly discomfited 
being out of contact with developments in contemporary biblical 
criticism.”— 


Marshman had called Ram Mohun a heathen at the very start of the 
dialogue. Ram Mohun replied, “The editor perhaps may consider himself 


justified by numerous precedents among the several partisans of different 
Christian sects in applying the name of heathen to one who takes the 
Precepts of Jesus as his principal guide in matters of religious and civic 
duties; as Roman Catholics bestow the appellation of heretics or infidels 
on all classes of Protestants; and the Protestants do not spare the title 
idolater to Roman Catholics; Trinitarians deny the name Christian to 
Unitarians, while the latter retort by stigmatising the worshippers of the 
son of man as Pagans who adore a created and dependent being.”— 


Schmit had felt offended by the Raja’s “attempts at separating the 
moral doctrines of the New Testament from the mysteries and historical 
matters contained therein.” Ram Mohun referred the missionary to New 
Testament passages to prove that “the aim and object of all 
commandments of God is to teach us our duty towards our fellow- 
creatures.” He pointed his finger at the fourth gospel as the villain of the 
piece in placing dogmas above moral precepts. “It is from this source,” he 
said, “that the most difficult to be comprehended of the dogmas of the 
Christian religion have been principally drawn, and on the foundation of 
passages of that writer, the interpretation of which is still a matter of keen 
discussion amongst the most learned and most pious scholars in 
Christendom, is erected the mysterious doctrine of three Gods in one 

Godhead.”22 


The Raja hit hard at the doctrine of Trinity. He asked his adversary in 
the dialogue “whether it is consistent with any rational idea of the nature 
of Deity that God should be appointed by God to act the part of a mediator 
by laying aside his glory and taking upon himself the form of a servant”, 
and “whether it is not most foreign to the nature of the immutable God that 
circumstances could produce such a change in the condition of the Deity as 
that he should not only have been divested of his glory for more than thirty 
years but even subjected to servitude.”— He raised a very inconvenient 
question: How was the doctrine of Trinity different from Hindu 
polytheism? 


Two Serampore Missionaries, William Yates and William Adam, were 
taking the help of Ram Mohun in translating the New Testament into 
Sanskrit. Ram Mohun suggested a certain translation of a Greek term 
which was first accepted and then turned down because it was damaging to 
the doctrine of Trinity. Serious doubts, however, arose in the mind of 
William Adam. He disowned Trinitarianism and joined Ram Mohun in the 
Unitarian Committee which the latter had formed in 1822. “The 
Serampore Missionaries flew into a rage and described him as ‘the second 
fallen Adam’ .”2^ 


Ram Mohun replied by writing a satire in Bengali, PAdarl Sisya 
SambAd, published in 1823, in order to ridicule the doctrine of Trinity. It 
was an imaginary dialogue between a European missionary and his three 
Chinese students. After having taught the dogma, the missionary asked his 
students whether God was one or many. “The first disciple replied that 
there were three Gods, the second that there were two and the third that 
there was no God. The teacher rebuked them and demanded an explanation 
of their answers. The first one said, ‘You said that there are God the Father, 
God the Son and God the Holy Ghost. According to my counting that is 
one plus one plus one, making three.’ The second one said, ‘You told us 
that there were three Gods and that one of them died long ago in a village 
in a Western country. So I concluded that there are two Gods, now living.’ 
The third one said, ‘You have said again and again that God was one and 
that there is no other God and Christ is the real God. But about 1800 years 
have passed since the Jews, living near the Arabian Sea, crucified him. 
What else, do you think I can say. Sir, except that there is no God.’”— 


He handled the divinity of Jesus in the same manner. “I ask,” he wrote, 
“whether it is consistent with the human notion of justice to release 
millions of men each guilty of sins unto death, after inflicting death upon 
another person (whether God or man) who never participated in their sins, 
even though that person had voluntarily proposed to embrace death, or 


whether it is not a great violation of justice according to the human notion 
of it, to put an innocent person to painful death for the transgressions of 
others.”— He asked a straight question, “If Jesus actually atoned for sin, 
and delivered men from its consequences, how can those men and women, 
who believe in his atonement, be still, equally with others, liable to the evil 
effects of the sins already remitted by the vicarious sacrifice of Jesus?” In 
place of substitutionary atonement, he recommended the Hindu view that 
“repentance alone is the sure and early remedy for human failure.”— 


Finally, he came to the miracles of Jesus. The missionaries maintained 
that those miracles could not be questioned because it was written in the 
Bible which was a divine book and that they were witnessed by many 
people. Ram Mohun observed, “If all assertations were to be 
indiscriminately admitted as facts, merely because they have been testified 
by numbers, how can we dispute the truth of those miracles which are said 
to have been performed by persons esteemed holy amongst natives of this 
country?... Have they not accounts and records handed down to them, 
relating to the wonderful miracles stated to have been performed by their 
saints, such as Agastya, Vasistha, and Gotam, and their gods incarnate-, 
such as Rama, Krishna and Narsimgh, in the presence of their 
contemporary friends and enemies, the wise and ignorant, the select and 
the multitude?”— 


The Raja had gone too far. White Christians outside the missionary 
circle now moved into the dialogue in their own way. Here was a mere 
Hindu, a member of an enslaved society, comparing the Bible with Hindu 
books and equating the incarnation of Jesus with Hindu avatars! Ram 
Mohun received abusive letters from Englishmen who had been his 
friends. One of them made a public attack on him. “It was arrogance,” he 
said, “on the part of a Hindu to say that there could be any common basis 
for both Hinduism and Christianity.” He invited his countrymen to put the 
Hindu in his proper place. “Are you so degraded by Asiatic effeminacy,” 
he asked his countrymen, “as to behold with indifference your holy and 


immaculate religion thus degraded by having it planted on an equality with 
Hinduism, with rank idolatry, with disgraceful ignorance and shameful 
superstition?” At the same time, he denounced the Hindus as ungrateful 
for not remembering that the Christians had given them civil liberty and 
education. The Raja thanked the British administration for civil liberty. He 
also pointed out that “all ancient prophets and patriarchs venerated by 
Christians nay even Jesus Christ himself ... were Asiatics.” But he refused 
to accept that he owed his education to Christianity. For that, he said, he 
“was indebted to our ancestors for the first dawn of knowledge.”— 


“The religious debate,” observes Dr. Sisir Kumar Das, “took a new 
turn. The issue of racial superiority slowly clouded the whole atmosphere. 
The area of controversy was enlarged. The Indian intellectual slowly 
realized that Christianity was linked with European civilization - it was 
linked up with the power that ruled India.”— The dialogue had reached a 
point where the Raja had to exercise restraint. 


He had demolished the most important Christian dogmas. But all 
along, he had kept Jesus on a high pedestal. Perhaps he was convinced that 
Jesus was a great moral teacher. Perhaps he was using Jesus only to beat 
the missionaries with their own stick. In any case, the Brahmo Samaj he 
founded had to pay a high price for his praise of Jesus. Keshub Chunder 
Sen who took over the Brahmo Samaj at a later stage, became infatuated 
with Jesus, so much so that he got alienated more or less completely from 
the Hindu society at large. Keshub’s disciples tried to get Jesus endorsed 
by Sri Ramakrishna who knew nothing about the mischievous myth. And 
that, in due course, led to Ramakrishna Mission’s antics of denying its 
Hindu ancestry.— 

Footnotes: 

- Sisir Kumar Das, op. cit., p. 6. 


- The History and Culture of the Indian people. Volume X: British 
Paramountcy And Indian Renaissance, Part II, 2nd Edition, Bombay, 
1981,pp.I52-I53. 

- Ibid., p. 153. 

- Paul Johnson, A History of Christianity, Penguin Books, 
London, 1978, p. 442. 

- Claudius Buchanan, Memories of the Expediency of an 
Ecclesiastical Establishment for British India: Both as the means of 
Perpetuating the Christian Religion Among Our Countrymen; And as 
a Eoundationfor the Ultimate Civilization of the Natives, London, 
1805, Part II, para 6. 

-Ibid., para 15. 

- Quoted in Hansard, XXVI, June 1813, pp. 831-32. 

- Quoted in R.C. Majumdar, op. cit., p. 338. 

- Dick Kooiman, ‘Social and Economic Backgrounds of 
Nineteenth century London Missionaries in Southern Travencore’, 
Indian Church History Review, December 1985, p. 117. 

^Ibid.,p. 112. 

— Sisir Kumar Das, op. cit., p. 25. 

— Predecessor of The Statesman, Calcutta. The newspaper has 
maintained its tradition of Hindu-bating. It is now owned by the 
Tatas, a Parsi industrial house, and edited by C.R. Irani, a Parsi pen- 
pusher. But neither the owners nor their hireling seem to remember 
that but for the protection provided by Hindus to their forefathers, 
they would not have been here at all. Irani’s love for Islam is 
intriguing indeed. Had he read any history, he would have known 


what Islam did to his overbrimming forefathers and their religion in 
Iran, and what a miscarriage he happens to be. 

— Sisir Kumar Das, op. cit., p. 26. 

^ Ibid.,^.21. 

— Ibid., p. 28. 

— Quoted in R.C. Majumdar, op. cit., pp. 15-16. 

— Sisir Kumar Das, op. cit., p. 33. 

— Quoted in Richard Fox Young, op. cit., p. 59. 

— Quoted in Sisir Kumar Das, op. cit., p. 34. 

— Richard Fox Young, op. cit., p. 64. 

— Quoted in Sisir Kumar Das, op. cit., pp. 26-21. 

— Quoted in Ibid., p. 27. 

— Quoted in Ibid., p. 29. 

'^Ibid., pp. 28-29. 

— Quoted in Ibid., pp. 30-31. 

— Quoted by Richard Fox Young, op. cit., p. II6n. 

— Quoted in Ibid., p. II7n. 

— Quoted in Ibid., pp. 111 -12. 

— Quoted in Sisir Kumar Das, op. cit., p. 37. Dr. Das surmises 
that Rabindranath’s famous song,prathama prabhAta udaya taba 


gagane, is a verbatim rendering of Ram Mohun Roy’s tribute to his 
ancestors. 

30 Ibid. 

31 See Ram Swarup, Ramakrishna Mission in Search of a New 
Identity, Voice of India, New Delhi, 1986. 


9 

Encounter in Maharashtra 


Another dialogue between Hinduism and Christianity was held soon 
after the one in Calcutta. This time the venue was Bombay, the second 
most important city founded by the British and another storm centre of 
missionary activity against Hinduism. John Wilson, after whom the Wilson 
College in Bombay is named, was an important Presbyterian missionary 
from Scotland. He “debated for six successive evenings with a pandit 
named Morabhatta Dandekara” in February, 1831. “John Wilson’s 
knowledge of Hindu literature,” we are told, “was first-rate, but he did not 
hesitate to subject what he read to withering ridicule from his perspective 
as a Christian. Inconsistencies in the Puranas were among his special 
targets.” He held debates with Zoroastrians and Muslims also. But “Hindus 
proved to be his dogged opponents .”- 


Wilson invited the Brahmanas for a debate on May 31, 1830, but he 
himself failed to turn up. A native convert. Ram Chandra, had to serve as 
his substitute. Ram Chandra informed the Brahmanas that Jesus was the 
second person of the Trinity who took “a human birth, and died for the 
world.” A Brahmana asked Ram Chandra not to “use that expression” and 
said that “God does not die.” Next the Brahmana speculated that “Jesus 
Christ was some philosopher (sadhoo) among you” but wondered why so 
much fuss was being made about him when “we have a thousand 
philosophers and saints like Jesus Christ.” Ram Chandra asked if Rama or 
Krishna or any other Hindu god “gave his life for you.” The Brahmana 
replied, “Why should they give their lives when they could save us in 
many other ways?” Ram Chandra asked a few more questions about Rama 
and concluded that Rama had lived for himself and not for others.- 


The proceedings of the debate that finally took place between 
Dandekara and Wilson in February 1831, have not been preserved. Wilson 
wrote a book, An Exposure of the Hindu Religion, in 1832. It was a reply 
to Dandekara’s Marathi book, SrihindudharmasthApanA, published earlier. 
The original in Marathi has been lost, but Wilson “prefixed” to his reply an 
English translation of it. We do not have Wilson’s book before us. What 
we have are extracts from it regarding Dandekara’s view of several 
Christian doctrines. 


Dandekara defends the deeds of Hindu gods which the missionaries 
considered immoral. He says that those deeds are virtuous which “have as 
much power as image worship itself to create in some pure and holy 
dispositions.” In any case, “These deeds, when narrowly conceived, are 
even far better than those virtuous actions of Christ’s that you mention 
Next, he takes up the Christian doctrine of Trinity. He finds it difficult to 
understand how “Those who hold these doctrines” of three divinities 
“maintain that the Unity of God is undestroyed.” But the more important 
point he makes is that if “these three divinities occasion no bewilderment 
of mind” to the Christians “how can the worship of Rama, Krishna and 
other gods, occasion... bewilderment to us?”- 


Coming to the atoning death of Jesus, Dandekara sees no merit in a 
God who “sent his son into the world... for the salvation of men” and then 
“brought him into a state so reproachful and so appalling.” He wonders 
why this God started by creating sin and then “unheard of suffering” for 
the redemption of that sin. He asks, “Had he no other way of saving the 
world? Why, pray, should he put himself to so much ado?” He says that 
Rama, Krishna and other incarnations have for their “appropriate object 
the salvation of the world.” But they “sported themselves at pleasure, and 
by these very sports accomplished the salvation of those who took refuge 
in their mercy.” They gave salvation “without suffering pain at all to be 
compared with that of Christ and without submitting to a reproachful death 


like him.” He asks the Christians it “whether these actions of Rama, 
Krishna and the rest, or those of your Jesus Christ are better.”- 


Dandekara sees no sense in Christian sacraments such as taking “a 
piece of bread, and muttering a few words to eat it up,” drinking wine and 
pouring “water on the head.” These, he says, are “all material things” from 
which no “merit and holiness” can result. They cannot entitle a man “to a 
state of nearness to God and emancipation from matter.” Compared to the 
bread and wine and water in a pot, the water of the Ganga “sanctified by 
the touch of Krishna’s feet or from the contemplation of his image” is far 
more pure. Yet the Christians say that the water of the Ganga creates “an 
increase of ignorance.” Dandekara concludes that Christians doctrines 
being hollow and Christian sacraments meaningless, the Hindu who 
favours them and finds Hinduism objectionable, does so as a result of sin 
committed in his former birth. The Hindu who converts to Christianity is 
like the man who suspects his own mother of adultery, “when he himself 
was conceived in her womb.”- 


Another Hindu whom Wilson tried to refute in A Second Exposure of 
Hindu Religion, published in 1834, was Narayan Rao, a teacher of English 
in a college at Satara. Rao wrote a Marathi book SvadeshadharmAbhimAni 
expounding Vedanta and examining the Bible. We have with us neither 
Rao’s book nor Wilson’s refutation of it. What we have are extracts in an 
English translation from Rao’s criticism of the Old and the New 
Testaments. 


Rao finds the God of the Old Testament frail as he had to take rest for a 
day after being busy with creation for six days. He seems to have “a figure 
like man” because the first man he created by breathing into an “image of 
clay” was “after his own image.” He cannot be credited with omniscience 
because he forgot to create a female companion when he created Adam. 
He had to put Adam to sleep and steal one of Adam’s bones for making 


Eve. As he did not seek Adam’s permission, he “was guilly of theft.” He is 
also unjust and vindictive. He cannot be credited with omnipotence either 
as he could not stop the Devil from telling to Adam and Eve the truth 
about the Tree of Knowledge. Moreover, the Devil is more truthful 
because he revealed to Adam and Eve what God had concealed from them. 
The God of the Old Testament, on the other hand, proved himself to be 
unjust and vindictive by cursing Adam and Eve for no fault of their’s.- 


Coming to the New Testament, Rao finds no improvement in the 
character of its God. He consorted secretly with the wife of Joseph “who 
was an upright man.” It was only when Joseph found Mary pregnant and 
“thought of dismissing her privately” without raising a public scandal that 
God told the truth to him in a dream. A better course for him would have 
been that since he desired Mary, he should have secured her divorce from 
Joseph. One wonders whether the Christians are praising or denouncing 
God by presenting him in this manner. God should certainly feel irritated 
with the Christian scripture. 


Nor is the birth of Jesus a commendable event. As soon is Jesus is 
born, “a great number of infants are unreasonably put to death” by Herod. 
Jesus did not act like God at all. Instead of facing Herod and preventing 
the death of the infants, he ran away to Egypt. He “did nothing whatever 
for the establishment of religion” as long as Herod lived. He came out of 
hiding only when Herod was dead. “It hence appears that Herod was more 
powerful than Jesus. It is impossible, therefore, that he, who by his flight, 
became murderer of children, and was so despicable in power, can be 
either the Son of God, or bear any relation to God whatever.”- 


Rao finds the Christian scripture equally despicable for saying that all 
those who have not accepted Christ as the only saviour will go to hell. Yet 
Christian teachers “are gent to Hindustan eighteen hundred years after 
Christ.” The consequence of this delay has been that “innumerable 


millions of people have gone, and will continue to go, into hell.” That only 
proves that the Christian scripture is false. If there had been any truth in it 
“Christian teachers... should have been sent forth into all the world at the 
time of Christ.” Finally, Rao draws the “unavoidable conclusion” from 
these contradictions in the Christian scripture. He says that “the Christian 
religion is false” and “the Padres, taking advantage of the sovereignty of 
the people of their caste, have come to this country for the express purpose 
of practising deceit, and leading the people to apostasy. ”- 


Dr. Richard Fox Young to whose book we owe the extracts from 
Narayan Rao’s examination of the two Testaments, sees only “literalistic 
exegesis” in Narayan Rao’s conclusions. He sees nothing wrong in the 
Christian exegesis which he himself admits to be equally literalistic. On 
the contrary, he justifies missionary retailing of miracles in terms of Hindu 
credulity! The implication is that the missionaries would have been 
philosophical in their approach if they had found a philosophically 
inclined audience among the Hindus. There is no evidence that 
Christianity has had any philosophical equipment at any time. Christians 
insist on a literal acceptance of their own scripture because they 
themselves believe that this scripture is divinely inspired. And they believe 
just the opposite about Hindu Shastras. Narayan Rao was only meeting 
them on their own level. Wilson’s mention of his work on Vedanta proves 
that unlike the Christian missionaries he was quite capable of 
philosophical discourse also. 

Footnotes: 

- Richard Fox Young, op. cit., p. 25. 

- Ibid., p. 25-26. 

- Ibid., p. 26. 

- Ibid., p. 27. 

- Ibid., pp. 27-28. 


- Ibid., p. 28. 

- Ibid., p. 29. 
-Ibid., pp. 29-30. 

- Ibid., p. 30. 


10 

Encounter with Sanskrit Pandits 


Yet another dialogue between Hinduism and Christianity was held 
from 1839 to 1845. It is particularly interesting because it took place 
through the medium of Sanskrit. John Muir (1810-1882) published the first 
draft of his MataparikshA in 1839 and the final in 1840. It drew three 
rejoinders from Hindu Pandits. SomanAtha, whose real name was Subaji 
Bapu, published his MatataparlkshAsikshA in 1839. Harachandra 
TarkapahchAnana came out with his Mataparlkshottara in 1840. 
NIlakaNTha Goreh reacted somewhat late and published his 
ShAstratattvavinirNaya at the end of 1844. 


John Muir had come to Calcutta in 1828 as a civil servant of the East 
India Company. He was, for some time, a student of William Carey at the 
Fort William College. From 1840 to 1853, he occupied several senior 
positions in the administration of North Western Provinces (later on the 
United Provinces and now Uttar Pradesh). In 1844-1845 he “supervised 
the reorganisation” of the Benares Sanskrit College founded by Jonathan 
Duncan in the late eighteenth century. By that time he had acquired a 
working knowledge of Sanskrit and collected what he considered an 
arsenal against Hinduism. All through his service career, he was a 
Christian missionary except in name. 


The atmosphere in North Western Provinces (NWP) at that time was 
particularly favourable for his mission because the majority of Englishmen 
in the administration were inclined the same way. “Historians have long 
recognised,” writes Dr. Young, “that committed Christians took an active 
role in the British administration in NWP and that many of them engaged, 
privately or publicly, in religious and social causes... The ideals that drew 
these administrators (for the most part Hailesbury graduates from the 



1820s and 1830s) together were evangelical, expansionist, and reformist. 
Under the leadership of James Thomason, Lieutenant Governor of NWP 
(1843-1853), these Christian administrators coalesced even more tightly.”- 
It may be added that by “social reform” they meant interference with 
Hindu religious and social traditions. Whatever Hindu practice did not 
conform to the Christian standard of correctness was a “social evil” for 
them. 


James Thomason was a follower of Charles Simeon, a Cambridge 
clergyman and leader of the Clapham Sect, the missionary brigade of the 
Church of England organised earlier by William Wilberforce. Simeon 
exercised great influence on Charles Grant, member of the Board of 
Directors of the East India Company. He secured through Grant the 
appointment of many administrators in India. They were and remained 
“his own curates.” Thomason was one of them. “Administrators,” 
continues Dr. Young, “who looked to Thomason for leadership in matters 
of government and religion, linked themselves with missionaries, 
especially Evangelicals, wherever they served. Pockets of Evangelicals, 
consequently, existed in most provincial centres wherever Muir served 


At the time Muir started using his official prestige and power for 
spreading Christianity, a section of the missionaries, led by William Carey 
were experimenting with what came to be known as Church Sanskrit. 
Carey was convinced that Hindus believed what they believed because it 
was written in Sanskrit, a language which they regarded as sacred. He 
wanted to train a group of “Christian Pandits” who would probe “these 
mysterious sacred nothings” and expose them as worthless. He could not 
help being deeply impressed by the structure and diction of Sanskrit, but 
he was distressed that this “golden casket exquisitely wrought” had 
remained “filled with nothing but pebbles and trash.”- He was out to fill it 
with “riches-beyond all price”, that is, the doctrines of Christianity. That 
was what he meant by Church Sanskrit. He was joined in this enterprise by 
several other Sanskritists, notably William Hodge and H. H. Wilson. 


Helped by Hindu Pandits, they translated Christian terminology and the 
New Testament into Sanskrit and wrote some other Christian tracts in this 
language. The enterprise continued till long after Carey was dead. “Such, 
indeed, is the exuberance and flexibility of this language and its power of 
compounding words,” M. Monier-Williams would write in 1861, “that 
when it has been, so to speak, baptised and thoroughly penetrated with the 
spirit of Christianity, it will probably be found, next to Hebrew and Greek, 
the most expressive vehicle of Christian truth 


These learned men believed sincerely that Hindus honoured certain 
doctrines simply because they were expressed in Sanskrit. It never 
occurred to any of them that Hindus honoured those doctrines no less 
when they were stated in other languages. Long before Carey and his tribe 
appeared on the Indian scene, the Alvars, the Nayanars, the Siddhas, the 
Sants and the Bhaktas had produced a prolific literature in all Indian 
vernaculars, expounding the same spiritual truths as the earlier spiritual 
seekers had done in Sanskrit. All this vernacular literature was held by 
Hindus in equal reverence. The missionary conviction that Hindus will buy 
the abomination that is Christianity if it is wrapped up in Hindu forms, 
persists in our own days. The missionary mind has so far failed to grasp 
the simple truth that what Hindus find fundamentally objectionable in 
Christianity is its doctrine. The objection will not disappear because that 
doctrine is stated in Sanskrit or dressed in an ochre robe.- 


Turning back to Muir, he started “urging missionaries to learn Sanskrit 
in order to ‘combat... hydra-headed paganism’.”- As no other missionary 
came forward with Christian lore composed in Sanskrit, he himself took 
the lead by publishing his MataparlkshA in 379 anuSTubha verses in the 
form of a dialogue between a teacher and his disciple. It was published by 
Bishop’s College, Calcutta, in 1839. Next year it was expanded to 1032 
Slokas, quoting many Sanskrit sources. Muir was out to impress Hindu 
Pandits with his mastery of Sanskrit literature. The mastery came easy to 


him, as to many other Christian scholars and missionaries, because he 
could employ poor Hindu Pandits to find for him the references he fancied. 


Muir said nothing in his MataparlkshA that had not been stated earlier 
by other missionaries. He laid down three criteria for characterising a true 
scripture: the founder’s power to work miracles, source in the one True 
God, and universality, that is, equal validity for every race. He faced no 
trouble in “proving” that the Christian scripture alone was true in terms of 
these criteria, while Hindu Shastras were false. He asserted that miracles 
mentioned in Hindu Shastras were “merely ornamental in that religion 
instead of being at its very centre as in Christianity.”- This way of arguing 
is pompously called Evidential Apologetics in Christian theology. At one 
point, however, Muir was deliberately dishonest. He criticised the 
cosmography of the Puranas as erroneous. Surely he must have known 
what Galileo and Copernicus had done to the cosmography of the Bible 
and how they had suffered persecution at the hands of the Church. 

SomanAtha 

The challenge thrown by Muir was accepted immediately by a 
Maharashtrian scholar, Subaji Bapu, who published his 
MataparlkshAsikshA soon after Muir’s shorter treatise became known in 
1839. Subaji published his work under a pseudonym, SomanAtha.- He was 
working in Central India with an English civil servant and Orientalist, 
Eancelot Wilkinson, as an interpreter of Jyotisha (Hindu astronomy and 
astrology) and thought it prudent not to use his real name. Association 
with an Englishman had earned him some bad name among his own 
people. But work with Wilkinson had proved advantageous to him in one 
way. He had acquired knowledge of Christianity and come to know that 
“on rational grounds, Christianity, too was defective in physical 
sciences.”- 


MataparlkshAsikshA was a short treatise of 107 verses divided in three 
chapters. It was also in the form of a dialogue between a teacher and a 
disciple. Subaji started by dismissing the miracles of Jesus as nothing 
special. Books belonging to all mArgas mention miracles. If the miracles 
of Jesus are true, so also those of the others, and vice versa: “But if some 
believe that Christ alone was the greatest by virtue of his power, then why 
was he killed by weak men?”— Nor can Jesus be held as the only saviour: 
“If (Christ) destroyed mankind’s sins by the sacrifice of his own body, then 
can that not be done... by those who, like him, are virtuous?”— 


Next, he showed that what Muir regarded as universality was, in fact, 
uniformity and unsuited to all because human nature varied from race to 
race: “Since God made men with particular natures, those belonging to a 
specific race must follow a particular scripture uttered by God. If only one 
scripture is agreeable to God, why did he... not make mankind 
singlenatured? For this very reason, that he made spatial, temporal and 
other differences, it would be perfectly certain that differences between 
scriptures would also he quite pleasing to him.” It is, therefore, the same 
One God who gave different scriptures to different people: “Worship him, 
the universal atman, true God who is honoured as Buddha in the Buddhist 
darshana, Jina in the Jain scripture, known by the name Christ in the 
Christian religion, as Allah in the Mohammedan religion and by the name 
Arka, Pramathesha, Shakti, Girisha, Srisha and so forth in the threefold 
Veda, various Tantras and 
Puranas.”— 


In one respect, however, Subaji found Christianity quite sinful. The 
followers of this religion injure and slaughter animals: “The worst sin is 
injuring bulls, helpers in ploughing, and cows, who regularly give milk.”— 
He weakened his argument by giving economic grounds for protection of 
animals. The Hindu doctrine of ahiMsA goes much deeper. Perhaps he 
thought that economic justification was better suited to minds for whom 
life by itself held no sanctity. 


Finally, he appealed to the missionaries to stop their campaign against 
other religions: “You should never revile people who are satisfied with 
their own religion... Listen you disciples of Christ! I, solicitous of your 
own welfare, tell you this truthfully... Diminution of Hari’s religion, anger, 
cruelty, subversion of authority and dissensions among the populace would 
result from reviling the religion of others. Increase of God’s religion, 
contentment, gentleness, harmony between the ranks would result from 
praising all religions. For each person his own religion is best; the same 
religion would be perilous for another person.”— 

Harachandra TarkapanchAnana 


The Mataparlkshottara of Harachandra was published in Calcutta but 
before Muir brought out the second and bulkier edition of his 
MataparlkshA. Harachandra was a poor Bengali Brahmana about whom 
nothing is known except the authorship of this book. The book itself was a 
short treatise of only 137 Sanskrit verses in Bengali script with a two-page 
Preface in English. He was, however, prepared to write more if Muir 
agreed to “bear the cost of printing and remunerated him for his 
labours.”— 


Harachandra started by taking note of the missionary epidemic. He 
said that there was no escape from the missionaries “either in the market¬ 
place or on the roads, with their constant refrain, ‘convert to our religion 
and be happy for ever.’” He rebuked rather strongly the Hindu converts: 
“Only that man... who is deluded, who is desirous of acquiring profits, who 
has neither deliberated upon his own religion, nor looked at the defects in 
Christianity, would become a Christian.”— They should have known that 
compared to Christianity Hinduism was a very ancient religion and had 
prevailed through the ages because of its innate strength: “If there is to be 
faith in a book, let it be in the Veda, since it has prevailed on earth from 
the time of creation onward.”— 


Harachandra was familiar with the debunking of Christianity at the 
hands of Western scholars: “Since many fearless, intelligent men such as 
Hume, Tom Paine, the great Voltaire, Palmer and Gibbon, confuted these 
priests, the priestly classes, answerless, called them infidels.”— Pointing to 
the rise of successive Christian sects, he asked, “How could that religion, 
the religious customs of which would constantly change, deserve respect 
from intelligent men endowed with reasoning?” He added sarcastically, 
“As the world-creator was powerless at the time of creation to establish 
religious customs, he (taking) the form of Christ established them 
afterwards: when Christ died, the world-creator (assuming) the form of 
Pope and others established them.” Being devoid of substance, Christianity 
has always depended upon force and fraud: “Formerly there was a certain 
king there, named Constantine. This deluded king stupidly converted to 
Christianity and strove to propagate this worthless religion by fraud, 
distributing wealth, craft and force. He made citizens everywhere in his 
realm convert to that religion. From that time until now, its propagation 
comes by nothing other than royal decree. Men don’t convert to it by their 
own will.”^ 


Harachandra demonstrated what could be done to Jesus if Hindus 
resorted to missionary methods of polemics. He knew how historico- 
critical studies in Europe had reduced Jesus to a pathetic figure. The story 
of his virgin birth had been subjected to searching questions. In the gospel 
of Luke, the Pharisee contemporaries of Jesus had told him to his face that 
he was a “bastard”, a “winebibber” and a “glutton” Harachandra had “read 
the New Testament - between the lines.”— 


Finally, Harachandra presented the ten tenets of Sanatana Dharma - 
constancy (dhriti), forgiveness (kshamA), self-control (dama), non-stealing 
(asteya), purity (Saucha), restraint of senses {indriyanigraha), devout 
thought {dhl), knowledge (vidyA), truth (satyam) and absence of anger 


{akrodha). He invited the Christians to practise these dharmas. They will 
be born as Hindus in their next life.— What he was saying was that 
Christians will then make a start on the path of moksha (freedom from the 
bondage of birth, disease, old age and death). This was his way of putting 
Christianity in its proper place in the scale of spiritual evolution. He was 
anticipating Mahatma Gandhi who will say, “For me there can be no 
deliverance from this earthly life except in India... anyone who seeks such 
deliverance... must go to the sacred soil of India.”— 


The Mataparlkshottara “caused a sensation in Calcutta.”— Christians, 
white and native, were up in arms against Harachandra. Krishna Mohan 
Banerjea, a Hindu convert, wrote a tract in Bengali in order to refute 
Harachandra’s “insinuations” against converts and explain away the 
differences among various Christian sects. On the other hand, Harachandra 
was hailed as “defender of the faith” in awakened Hindu circles. Christian 
scholars find it difficult to forgive him even today. Dr. Young calls him 
“tactless and pugilistic.”— It is a classical case of seeing the mote in the 
other man’s eye while missing the beam in one’s own. 

NIlakaNTha Goreh 

The third Hindu who reacted to Muir’s MataparlkshA was 
NIlakaNTha Goreh, a Maharashtrian Brahamana resident in Varanasi. He 
had been “outraged by bazaar preaching in his sacred city” and wanted “to 
silence the missionaries.” He said he would “compel them either to leave 
the country or confine themselves to the instruction of Christians.”— He 
had been holding a dialogue with William Smith of the Church Missionary 
Society (CMS) when he was given a copy of MataparlkshA in April 1844. 
It was the second and enlarged edition which Muir had completed in 1840. 
Muir had tried to dispute Harachandra’s argument about the antiquity of 
the Vedas by borrowing H. T. Colebrook’s historico-criticism of the Vedic 
literature. 


Before he wrote his ShAstratattvavinirNaya in reply to Muir, Goreh 
had sent to Smith a small treatise in Hindi which he had circulated in 
Varanasi “in order to stem the tide of conversions.” He had raised in it six 
“Doubts concerning Christianity.”— 


First, he had wondered that if “none can be saved except those who 
believed in Christ”, why had God delayed the message for so long and 
“created many nations and innumerable generations for hell?” 


Second, he had asked, “Is it justice that the innocent should suffer for 
the guilty and the guilty escape?” Only an unjust God could devise this 
scheme of atonement. If God is just, “repentance and amendment” are 
what he should demand. 


Third, the miracles ascribed to Jesus are tales “not worthy of credit” by 
wise men. One hears such tales everywhere. Moreover, Christians refuse to 
believe the “wonderful works, which wise men amongst us have related.” 
Why should Hindus “believe in yours?” 


Fourth, why do Christians ascribe justice and mercy to a God who 
created “disordely” and “unfortunate” souls though it was in his power to 
create only good souls because he created them out of nothing? 


Fifth, Christianity condemns image-worship as if the worshipper 
regards the image as the creator of the world. This is a misconception. 
Hindus “set apart one thing in particular, in order, by meditating upon it, to 
remember God.” This is quite in keeping with the Hindu perception that 
“God’s essence is in everything.” 


Sixth, Christians reject transmigration and believe that there is only 
one birth. This is convenient only for those “who after death attain 
salvation.” But it is very unjust to those who “die in their sins and are 
never to obtain birth again.” Sending these souls to ever-lasting 
punishment, “is not only useless, but it would prove God guilty of enmity, 
cruelty and injustice.”— 


Goreh’s ShAstratattvavinirNaya, published at the end of 1844, 
consisted of 786 anuSTubh verses divided into six chapters. It has survived 
in one complete and two fragmentary manuscripts. A critical edition 
prepared by S. L. Katre was published in 1951 by the Scindia Oriental 
Institute of Ujjain. 


Goreh starts where Muir had started - the miracles of Jesus. How can 
people at present know that the powers ascribed to Jesus really existed in 
him? Christians claim that those powers were witnessed by contemporary 
people who were adversaries of Jesus. They also claim that their scriptures 
have a divine source and cannot lie. But these are not rational proofs. 
Miracles and contemporary witnesses can be invented once you have 
decided to claim divine origin for some books. Conversely, when 
Christians say that those miracles really happened because they are 
mentioned in divinely inspired books, they are only proving what they 
have already assumed. If Jesus was God incarnate and cured blind people 
in the past, “why are blind people who firmly believe in him, not now also 
possessed of eyesight?” Has God ceased to be compassionate as before? 
Moreover, Christians say that Jesus performed miracles “for the sake of 
confidence in (his) divinity.” Why has he stopped doing the same today? 
“Are not people anxious to have confidence now as well?” The entire 
argument based on miracles is bogus. Christians are simply saying, 
“Believe it because we say so.” 


The Christian doctrine that God created everything including human 
souls out of nothing, involves God in serious difficulties. “If God was 
going to create people intending only to send them to heaven, he would 
neither have frivolously made them human beings in the meantime nor 
have given them a place to sin.” But if he created them so that they may 
commit sins, he and not human beings are responsible for those sins. If he 
sends sinners to hell, he is unjust. “The one who brings thieves into 
existence” is himself a thief. Moreover, what is the sense in bringing into 
existence human beings who die in childhood or are retarded since their 
birth? It is funny that the same God who creates sinners comes out next to 
give them salvation. Hindus have a better doctrine. They explain human 
nature in terms of deeds done in past births. Sounder still is Vedanta which 
says that sin and suffering and salvation are illusions from the viewpoint of 
Brahma. 


The Christian doctrine of ever-lasting punishment for human beings 
whom God himself created sinful, turns God into a criminal. Why should 
souls suffer in an eternal hell for no fault of theirs? According to Hindu 
perceptions, sinful souls suffer in hell for a limited period. “Thus, 
experiencing pleasure and pain in numerous existences, they also gradually 
attain mukti.”— The Christian doctrine of original sin makes no sense at 
all. Why should all human beings at all times inherit the sin of Adam and 
Eve? Biologically also, the doctrine is absurd. “The child’s body indeed 
but not his intellect is derived from his father.” This can be easily verified. 
“The son even of a very wicked-minded man is seen to be the crest-jewel 
of virtuous people.” A child cannot be blamed because he has been 
begotten by a corrupt father. “Surely, birth depends on God, not on 
man.”— 


Coming to Jesus, it is preposterous to believe that he saved mankind by 
himself suffering the punishment for the sins of mankind. It is impossible 
for anyone to escape the consequences of one’s sins even if someone else 
comes forward to suffer as a substitute. It is also unjust to make someone 


else suffer for one’s own sins. Moreover, if sins get washed simply by 
believing in Jesus, “men who delight in sins would commit them at 
whim.” But if, on the other hand, belief in Jesus has to be accompanied by 
repentance, belief becomes redundant because it is repentance which 
serves the purpose. That is what Hinduism teaches. Repentance is the real 
cure for sins.— 


We see everywhere that persons who sincerely believe in Jesus 
continue to suffer in this world. How do we know that the will not 
continue to suffer in the next world as well? Christianity says that God 
inflicts suffering in order to test men’s faith. Why, then, are human beings 
who die at birth brought into existence? They are not given a chance to 
pass the test. Where do these human beings go? To heaven, or to hell? In 
any case, “creating them is purposeless.” Moreover, “There is no equally 
just punishment for both major and minor sins.”— 


Christian salvation also is a very poor concept. It “Is a state of being 
called heaven where there are celestial pleasures.” There is no place for 
“inward peace of good people” which comes from “world-renunciation, 
meditation and equanimity.” Celestial pleasures also arise from sense- 
objects. 


Hankering for such pleasures cannot he extinguished by enjoying 
them. On the contrary, the hankering grows. The Christian heaven is, 
therefore, a place of perpetual dissatisfaction. Hinduism says that “merit 
and demerit are produced because of ego-centric activities.” It is only 
when such activities cease that the wheel of pleasure and pain stops 
turning. The Atman is completely purified by the destruction of Karma and 
exists in its own essential nature.— 


Christianity has not spared any thought for animals, birds and God’s 
other creatures. If God has created them only to suffer as they do under 
man’s dispensation, he is very obnoxious. Human hearts melt on seeing the 
suffering of animals. “Does not God’s, too, who is compassionate?” Why 
has Christianity failed to see that animals and birds and other creatures are 
so much like human beings in many respects? They know hunger and 
thirst, sleep and sex, fear and hope. Birds build houses and rear families. 
What is more, they do not need a scripture to tell them what is good and 
what is bad for them. They know it by instinct. Does not God who created 
them want them to have the happiness of knowing him? Do they continue 
to exist after death? Christianity has no answers for these questions. 
Hinduism, on the other hand, envisages that “Creatures become animals by 
reason of sins in previous existences” and that “having experienced the 
fruit of their deeds, they are released” from their animal status.— 


Compared to Christianity, Hinduism is a very comprehensive 
philosophy. Only “those who are dull-witted, their understanding vitiated 
by argumentation, have no aptitude for truth explained in the Upanishads.” 
But God is compassionate and solicitous of salvation for everyone. He has, 
therefore, provided these dull-witted people with other scriptures suited to 
their understanding. “Men have an endless number of aptitudes, high and 
low, in nature” on account of their “good and bad karman” They worship 
Govinda in various ways and come to Vedanta in due course. “Bhagwan, 
an ocean of compassion, made various kinds of margas by which everyone 
may attain salvation.” To each according to his aptitude. Missionaries 
insist that there is only one mArga. They have missed the point from 
which Hinduism makes its start.— 


“Images are never worshipped with the mind on either clay or wood - 
only with the mind on God, who is all-pervasive.” What is wrong with 
that? “God is spotless like the sky.” He accepts whatever worship is 
offered to him, in whatever way. Those who know the purpose of 
pilgrimages and image-worship “know that, although these things are said 


to cause merit, surely this, too, aims at commanding knowledge of God, 
patience of mind, purification of consciousness, etc.” The sun and the 
other symbols we worship, indicate God. The worshipper’s imagination is 
fixed “squarely on God.”— 


Muir says that the differences in language render the Vedas defective. 
“Now on account of the difference in subject-matter, the language of 
Mantras, Brahmanas and the Upanishads is somewhat mutually distinct... 
The language in the Mahabharata is seen to be clearer than the Veda; 
language of that sort, somewhat different than the Puranas, is also found in 
the Smritis.” That does not make them contradict each other. Language is 
adopted to the theme and also to the level of understanding. Nor do the 
variations in language make the Vedas less ancient.— 


Lastly, the Puranas are not books of geography. The subject-matter of 
the Puranas is the glorification of God. They describe the Cosmos in 
various ways. If one is looking for science, one should go to the 
Siddhantas. Moreover, it is not for Christians to find fault with the 
astronomy of the Puranas. “In your religion there is also a conflict between 
religion and science. In science it is acknowledged that the earth moves, 
but in (your) scripture the sun moves.”— 

Summing up 

“Perhaps the most remarkable feature,” concludes Dr. Young, “of 
Hindu apologetics within the Matapariksha Context is not so much what it 
contained but what it lacked. A most curious absence is Jesus Christ, the 
figure in the very centre of Christianity. This lack of interest is especially 
surprising in view of the awe in which he was held even during the time of 
the Matapariksha Controversy by Hindus such as Rammohun Roy and 
Keshab Chandra Sen in Calcutta and the reverential fascination of 
contemporary Hindus. To Somanatha, Harachandra and Nilakantha, Jesus 
was mostly a deus ex machina introduced by Christians to extricate their 


creator God from the dilemma he had brought upon himself by his ex 
nihilo creative act. They were not interested in his beatitudes... neither did 
they adopt him as an avatara... or identify his name with Krishna.”— He 
is right when he identifies the role which, according to Hinduism, Jesus 
plays in Christian theology. Jesus is, in fact, no more than a deus ex 
machina. But, like most Christians, he is sadly mistaken when he says that 
contemporary Hindus had a fascination for the figure of Jesus. We shall 
see when we come to contemporary Hindu views of what they think of this 
myth. 

Impact of MataparlkshA Controversy on Muir 


Muir revised his MataparlkshA once more between 1852 and 1854 
when he returned to Scotland. Then he gave up writing in Sanskrit and 
took to publishing Original Sanskrit Texts. “The materials in these still 
standard books never betray the author’s original purpose in amassing 
them: to demonstrate that Christianity is rationally superior to 
Hinduism.”— Sanskrit studies had a beneficial effect on Muir and he no 
more regarded the language as a “golden casket full of pebbles and trash.” 
The contents of Sanskrit texts now so fascinated him that he endowed a 
Chair of Sanskrit Language, Literature, Philosophy and Comparative 
Philology at the University of Edinburgh in 1862. 


Muir also moved away from Evangelism and towards the Broad 
Church movement which thought that “Christian doctrine was sorely out 
of alignment with modern science.” He now believed that “the Bible could 
not be exempted from the rigorous philological and historical analysis to 
which he had subjected the Vedas.” In 1861, Muir published his Brief 
Examination of Prevalent Opinions on the Inspiration of the Old and New 
Testaments. He found that both had mutual discrepancies besides several 
other shortcomings. The introduction to this book was written by H. B. 
Wilson who said that it “clearly reveals the impact of the Matapariksha 
Controversy upon Muir’s belief in the Bible.” Muir himself wrote, “We 
may be assured that as Christianity comes into actual close contact with 


Orientals of acute intellects...it will be met with a style of controversy 
which will come upon some among us with surprise. Many things will be 
disputed which we have been accustomed to take for granted, and proofs 
will be demanded, which those who have been brought up in the external 
evidence school of the last century, may not be prepared to supply.”— 


Muir continued to believe for some time that Christianity had an 
immeasurably superior message in the sphere of morality. But after a few 
years he gave-up that belief also “admitting that Christian virtues are 
neither superior to others nor sui genesis.’’" In 1879, he published Metrical 
Translations from Sanskrit Writers in which “didactic passages from 
Indian literature were juxtaposed with others from Biblical and classical 
Greek authorities.” He concluded, “These sentiments and observations are 
the natural expression of the feelings and experiences of Universal 
humanity; and the higher and nobler portion of them cannot he regarded as 
peculiarly Christian.”— 

Footnotes: 

- Richard Fox Young, op. cit., p. 51 

- Ibid., p. 52 

- Ibid., p. 34. 

- Ibid., p. 48. 

- Fr. Bede Griffiths and Henri le Saux have been the main 
exponents of this Christian self-deception in recent years. See 
Catholic Ashrams: Sannyasins or Swindlers?, Voice of India, New 
Delhi, 1994. 

- Quoted in Richard Fox Young, op. cit., p.64 


- Quoted in Ibid., p. 72. 


- It is not known from what place he published his work. It is not 
mentioned in the only copy now available in the India Office Library. 

^ Ibid., ^.92. 

— Quoted in Ibid., p. 110. 

— Quoted in Ibid., p. 115. 

— Quoted in Ibid., p. 92. 

— Quoted in Ibid., p. 120. 

— Quoted in Ibid., p. 145. 

— Quoted in Ibid., p. 93. 

— Quoted in Ibid. 

— Quoted in Ibid., p. 99. 

— Quoted in Ibid., p. 96. 

— Quoted in Ibid., p. 97. 

Ibid.,^.99, 

— Ibid., p. 150. 

— Quoted in Ibid., p. I52n. 

^Ibid.,p. 100. 

— Ibid., p. 93. 

^Ibid.,^. 103. 

^Ibid.,p. 104. 


— Quoted in Ibid., pp. 104-105 

— Quoted in Ibid., pp. 113-14. 

— Quoted in Ibid., pp. 114-115. 

— Quoted in Ibid., pp. 115-16. 

— Quoted in Ibid., pp. 116-17. 

— Quoted in Ibid., pp. 117-118. 

— Quoted in Ibid., pp. 123-24. 

— Quoted in Ibid., pp. 123-124. 

— Quoted in Ibid., p. 127. 

— Quoted in Ibid., pp. 131-32. 

— Quoted in Ibid., pp. 133-134. 
^Ibid.,^. 137. 

— Ibid., p. 166. 

— Quoted in Ibid., pp. 167-68. 


— Quoted in Ibid., pp., 168-69. 



11 

Encounter with Maharshi Dayananda 

Compared to the intervals between the encounters narrated so far, the 
next encounter between Hinduism and Christianity took a much longer 
time in coming. John Muir had published the third and final edition of his 
MataparlkshA in 1854. Before Hindu Pandits could take notice of any new 
points raised in it, the Great Rebellion broke out in 1857. Christianity was 
no longer a subject of public debate. It became one of the issues in the war 
that ensued. 

After the Rebellion was suppressed, some military brass and civil 
administrators among the triumphant British were openly advocating the 
use of the sword in the service of the gospel. British military success had 
convinced many missionaries that God was also looking forward to a 
triumph of the only true faith. Missionary language became more crude 
and missionary methods more criminal. Spokesmen for Hinduism, on the 
other hand, had to lie low. Even a mild criticism of the imperial creed was 
likely to be interpreted as attack on the imperial establishment. It was not 
easy to bridge the gulf which the war had created between the spokesmen 
for Hinduism and the standard-bearers of Christianity. 

Hindu society was rescued from this slough of despondence by 
Maharshi Dayananda (1824-1883). Sir Syed Ahmad Khan rendered the 
same service to Muslim society. But there was a world of difference 
between the two in terms of approach. Sir Syed advocated servility to the 
British rulers and slurring over of differences between Christianity and 
Islam. Maharshi Dayananda, on the other hand, laid stress on svadeshi and 
svarAjya and forcefully identified Christianity as a crude cult suited to 
savage societies. 

Dayananda was deeply pained by the humiliations suffered by his 
people which were caused by the military governments repression and 
debased Christian harangues against Hinduism. His first priority was to 
restore his peoples pride in their country and their cultural heritage. 
Centuries of foreign invasions had sunk Hindu society into poverty, sloth 
and defeatism. He mounted a frontal attack on some Hindu sects and 



systems of thought which he held responsible for this state of affairs. 
Hindu orthodoxy reacted by branding him as a hireling of Christian 
missionaries. There were certain strains in his thought which sounded like 
those of the alien creed. The missionaries themselves watched him for 
some time, for it appeared as if he was making things easy for them. 

It was a matter of principle with Maharshi Dayanand not to speak on a 
subject which he had not studied and understood in advance. So he 
listened patiently to the Christian missionaries whenever and wherever 
they met him. There were seven such meetings between 1866 and 1873. 
He met J. Robson at Ajmer in 1866. During his stay in U.R he had talks 
with J. T. Scott who presented to him the Christian position on various 
themes as well as a copy of the New Testament. In 1870, he met Dr. 
Rudolf Hoernle at Varanasi. On his way to Calcutta in 1872, he met the 
well-known Hindu convert Lai Behari De at Mughal Sarai and exchanged 
notes with him on the nature of sin and salvation. He discussed the nature 
of God with some English and native clergymen while he was staying at 
Bhagalpur in the course of the same journey. 

By the time he reached Calcutta, the Brahmo Samaj had split into two. 
A minority consisting of those who wanted to retain their. Hindu identity 
had remained with the Adi Brahmo Samaj led by Debendra Nath Tagore 
and Rajnarayan Bose. The majority had walked away with Keshub 
Chunder Sen who had formed his Church of the New Dispensation 
(NababidhAna) and started dreaming of becoming the prophet of a new 
world religion. Dayananda saw with his own eyes how infatuation with 
Christ had reduced Keshub Chunder to a sanctimonious humbug and 
turned him into a rootless cosmopolitan. He also witnessed how Debendra 
Nath Tagore was finding it difficult to retrieve the ground lost when the 
Adi Brahmo Samaj had repudiated the fundamental tenets of Hinduism - 
the authority of the Vedas, VarNAshrama-dharma, the doctrine of rebirth, 
etc. The only consolation he found in Calcutta was a lecture. The 
Superiority of Hinduism, which Rajnarayan Bose had delivered earlier and 
a copy of which was presented to him. 

Dayananda wrote a critique of Brahmoism soon after he returned from 
Calcutta. It was incorporated in Chapter XI of his SatyArthaprakAsha 



which was first published from Varanasi in the beginning of 1875. The 
Brahmos, he wrote, have very little love of their own country left in them. 
Far from taking pride in their country and their ancestors, they find fault 
with both. They praise Christians and Englishmen in their public speeches 
while they do not even mention the rishis of old. They proclaim that since 
creation and till today, no wise man has been born outside the British fold. 
The people of Aryavarta have always been idiotic, according to them. 
They believe that Hindus have never made any progress. Far from 
honouring the Vedas, they never hesitate in denouncing those venerable 
Shastras. The book which describes the tenets of Brahmoism has place for 
Moses, Jesus and Muhammad who are praised as great saints, but it has no 
place for any ancient rishi, howsoever great. They denounce Hindu society 
for its division in castes, but they never notice the racial consciousness 
which runs deep in European society. They claim that their search is only 
for truth, whether it is found in the Bible or the Quran, but they manage to 
miss the truth which is in their own Vedic heritage. They are running after 
Jesus without knowing what their own rishis have bequeathed to them. 
They discard the sacred thread as if it were heavier than the foreign 
liveries they love to wear. In the process, they have become beggars in 
their own home and can do no good either to themselves or to those among 
whom they live.- 

The critique of Christianity which Dayananda had written at the same 
time and which formed Chapter XIII of the SatyArthaprakAsha was left 
out of the first edition by the publisher in Varanasi. He was a deputy 
collector in the British administration and thought it prudent not to annoy 
the missionaries. He dropped Chapter XIV also because it was a critique of 
Islam and he had many friends among the Muslim gentry of United 
Provinces. Dayananda himself became heavily preoccupied from 1876 
onwards, first in the Punjab and then in Rajasthan. The Ary a Samaj he had 
founded in 1875 was being placed on a firm footing. He had also several 
other major books in hand. It was only in 1882 that he undertook a 
revision of the SatyArthaprakAsha for its second edition. The copy which 
was sent to the press in installments included the chapters on Christianity 
and Islam. He did not live to see the second edition which was published 
an year after his death in 1883. But by now the public at large had come to 
know his position vis-a-vis Christianity. His two dozen disputations with 


leading Christian missionaries, mostly in the Punjab, had left nobody in 
doubt that he had only contempt for the imported and criminal creed. 

Dayananda did not know the English language, though he had tried to 
learn it at one time. He had to depend on Sanskrit and Hindi translations of 
the Bible done by some leading missionaries. Nor was he acquainted with 
the critique of Christianity which had, by his time, snowballed in the West. 
But his handling of the two Testaments shows that these were no 
disadvantages for him. His sense of logical consistency was quite strong. 
So was his humane and universal ethics derived from Vedic exegesis. 

In his examination of the Old Testament, Dayananda concentrated his 
attention on the character of Jehovah. He found that Jehovah was not only 
blood-thirsty, vindictive and unjust but also extremely whimsical. Jehovah 
alone, said Dayananda, could choose a monster like Moses as his prophet 
and reveal a barbarous book like the Pentateuch. Dayanand summed up the 
character of Jehovah in a Sanskrit Sloka which deserves to be quoted 
verbatim: kshaNe rushtaH kshaNe tushTaH, rushTatushTaH kshaNe 
kshaNe; avyavasthitachittasya prasAdopi bhayaNkaraH (He is displeased 
in this moment and pleased in the next. He takes no time in travelling from 
dissatisfaction to satisfaction. His mind is deranged. Even a favour from 
such a being is to be feared). Only a savage society, said Dayananda, can 
project and worship such a being. He is no better than a tribal leader who 
sides with his own gang even if it is unjust and cruel and who reserves his 
wrath for every other people even if they are just and compassionate. Such 
a being should not be sold as the father of all mankind. Nor can he be 
entrusted with presiding over the world. 

Coming to Jesus, Dayananda found him wanting even as a man, not to 
speak of as the son of God. One of the ten commandments required him to 
serve his parents. But instead of doing so himself, he made others leave 
their parents in the lurch. It was quite fit that he called himself and his 
disciples the fishers of men. They did ensnare ignorant people in the net of 
a creed they had invented to serve their own purpose. Their poor victims 
also left their homes. Jesus claimed that he had come with a sword and that 
his mission was to separate the son from the father, the daughter from the 
mother, the brother from the brother, and so on. The missionaries today are 



only following the example set by Jesus himself. They too entice ignorant 
people and separate them from their near and dear ones. The fraud, said 
Dayananda, should be exposed and the innocent people saved. 

Coming to the miracles of Jesus, Dayanand said that the missionaries 
should be sent to share the company of sorcerers if they really believe in 
those miracles. The least they could do is to stop decrying the far more 
wonderful miracles mentioned in other peoples books. Those who 
denounce other peoples faith as false and sell their own falsehoods as 
truths, deserve to he described as dolts. 

The apostles of Jesus, said Dayananda, were no better. One of them 
sold his teacher for thirty pieces of silver, others ran away when the 
teacher was caught and hanged. Yet we are told that these apostles will sit 
with Jesus on the day of judgment! Who could expect justice from judges 
of this kind? The missionaries are revealing the Christian standard of 
justice when they say that those alone who believe in Jesus will be saved 
and the rest sent to hell to rot there for ever. We see the same standard of 
justice in the Christian administration of this country. If a white man kills a 
black native, the murderer goes free! Moreover, is it not a mockery of 
justice that those who died soon after creation will have to wait to be 
judged in their graves for a long time while those who die close to the day 
of judgment will be judged very soon? All this proves that Christianity is 
the product of a primitive mind which lacks all sense of justice and fair 
play. 

Jesus had said that the pieces of bread he was distributing were his 
body and the wine with which he was filling his disciples cups was his 
blood. Can a civilized man speak this language? No one except an uncouth 
savage would command his disciples to eat his flesh and drink his blood. 
Yet Christians applaud the practice as the Lords Supper! Jesus was no lord. 
He was only a trickster. Had he had any spiritual powers, he would have 
saved himself from a shameful death. Nor was he a man of honour. Had he 
been one, he would have fought back and died a heros death. Yet we are 
told that Jesus was the Only Son of God and that nobody can reach God 
except by his recommendation. God is thus reduced to the status of a 
servant of Jesus. The only conclusion we can draw from such statements 



of Jesus is that he was an impostor. He can be honoured only in a savage 
society. Hindus have a saying that even a castor plant can pass as a tree in 
a land devoid of real trees. Jesus can pass as God only among people who 
have never known what constitutes Godhood. 

Dayananda was thus fully equipped when he met the missionaries in a 
public debate at Moradabad in 1876. When the missionaries said that 
Christ was the only Saviour, the Swami retorted that Krishna and 
Shankaracharya were men of better caliber and that belief in salvation 
through the intercession of a man was worse than idolatry.- In March 
1877, there was a three-cornered contest at Chandpur Mela between 
Dayananda on one side and Muslim maulanas and Christian missionaries 
on the other. The theme was creation and salvation. Dayananda 
demonstrated how the literalistic methods which the missionaries 
employed in attacking Hindu Shastras and saints, could be used more 
effectively in dealing with the Bible and Jesus. 

He had to rush to the Punjab in the same month as a wave of 
conversions in that province had made the missionaries feel triumphant 
and alarmed Hindu society. He met a missionary at his first stop in 
Ludhiana and silenced him immediately when he criticised Sri Krishna. A 
poor Brahmana had found employment in the missionary establishment 
and started feeling inclined towards Christianity. Dayananda demonstrated 
to him the errors of the alien creed and the merits of his own ancestral 
faith. The Brahmana was saved, though the missionaries sacked him. 

During his prolonged tour of the Punjab, Dayananda faced the 
missionaries in no less than twenty public debates in different towns. 
Luminaries like E. M. Wherry, W. Hooper, W. C. Forman and Robert 
Clark were pitted against him, but he silenced them all. His performance in 
public debates not only stopped further conversions but also gave birth to a 
new movement - shuddhi (purification) of those who had been enticed 
away from Hindu society at one time or the other. It sent a wave of 
consternation through the missionary circles and restored Hindu 
confidence. In days to come, the missionaries became more and more 
reluctant to meet Dayananda in open forums. 


Dayanandas work was continued after his death by the scholars of the 
Ary a Samaj. They challenged the missionaries again and again to show the 
worth of Christianity as compared to the Vaidika Dharma. That is a long 
story which needs to be told in greater detail, and we reserve it for some 
other time. For the present, we would like to draw attention to a significant 
fact. Compared to the South, the progress of Christianity has been very, 
very slow in the North. The credit for reversing the trend in the North goes 
overwhelmingly to the lead given by Maharshi Dayananda and the Arya 
Samaj he founded. 

Footnotes: 

- Translated and summarised from SatyArthaprakAsha, Delhi, 
1975,pp.330-335 

2 J.T.F. Jordens, Dayananda Sarasvati and Christianity, Indian 
Church History Review, June 1981, p. 37. 


12 

Second Encounter in Tamil Nadu 


While a heated dialogue between Hinduism and Christianity was going 
on in the North, with Maharshi Dayananda in the forefront, another 
dialogue was taking shape in South India. Its centre was in the Cauvery 
Delta, particularly the District of Tiruchirapally, which had witnessed the 
first Hindu-Christian dialogue nearly 175 years earlier. This stronghold of 
Hindu learning had invited concentrated missionary attention since the 
days of the Portuguese pirates. One foreign mission after another had 
descended on the scene and mounted assaults on Hinduism in various 
forms. The flow of Christian finance and manpower from abroad was 
unceasing and in ever-increasing quantities, as it remains today. 


We have seen already how the British sponsored Royal Danish Mission 
(RDM) had set up a station at Tranquebar in 1706 under the leadership of 
Ziegenbalg. The same mission set up another station at Tanjore in 1732. In 
the same year, the Society for Promotion of Christian Knowledge (SPCK) 
started operating from Tiruchirapally and Tanjore and the Society for 
Propagation of the Gospel (SPG) from Tiruchirapally. The region 
remained disturbed during the next fifty years due to English and French 
intrusions and internecine wars among native powers. But as soon as 
conditions became favourable for missionary work, the SPCK set up a 
second centre at Negapatinam in 1785. It was followed by the London 
Missionary Society (LMS) which started working from Kumbakonam in 
1805. In 1825 the SPG set up a second station at Tanjore and the Church 
Missionary Society (CMS) began work from Mayavaram. In 1833, the 
SPG set up its third and fourth stations at Tranquebar and Negapatinam. 
Meanwhile, the Methodists had arrived at Negapatinam in 1820 and 
Melanattam in 1830. They extended their activities to Mannargudi in 1835, 
Tiruchirapally in 1847, Tiruvarur in 1859, Karur in 1861 and Dharapuram 
in 1881. In due course, they were to become the dominant mission in this 
area. But other missions were not slack. In every case, the headquarters 



was only the starting point for reaching out into the interior. By the 
beginning of the ninth decade of the nineteenth century, the whole region 
had become honeycombed with mission stations. 


The message which the missionaries carried everywhere was very 
simple. “That all might understand,” reported Dr. Elijah Hoole in 1824, “I 
spoke plain and loud, and set forth the value of the soul and the importance 
of its salvation, and that my business was to raise concern for its welfare in 
all to whom I had access; that by sin we are exposed to death and hell, but 
that the one true God who had made us, not willing that any should perish, 
had found a ransom, at the same time giving us true Vedam, teaching us 
how to obtain and keep the blessings purchased for us by Jesus Christ; that 
the truths of the Bible were the object of faith, and the precepts of it the 
rule of practice 


The missionary view of Hinduism had remained stable since the days 
of Ziegenbalg. According to a missionary report of 1821, “an immense 
population lies enslaved in the grossest darkness.” Hindu temple worship 
was “calculated to corrupt the heart, to sensualize the mind and to lead to 
every description of vice.” James Mowat, a Methodist missionary wrote in 
a letter to his headquarters at London, “I never had so plain demonstration 
of depravity heathenism binds upon its votaries in the shape of religion. 
The principal pagoda abounds with the most obscene and polluting 
representations, and decidedly proves, if proof be necessary, how greatly 
this people need the hallowing light of Christianity.” Naturally, the Hindus 
invited “tenderest pity” from the missionaries who used “all their means to 
rescue them from impending destruction .”- 


The missionaries were fully equipped to undertake the task. “They 
visited Choultries, market places and bathing tanks, preached in the city 
streets, under the shadow of idolcars, under the canopy of country-trees, in 
the open square of the villages and other places where they could meet a 


good number of people. In the villages situated in the immediate 
neighbourhood of each mission station, the Gospel was preached very 
often, while places more remote were visited less frequently. These visits 
were generally undertaken by missionaries accompanied by a staff of 
native preachers. A tent would be pitched at a suitable centre and the 
whole neighbourhood would be visited. The singing of Christian lyrics and 
hymns accompanied by musical instruments soon attracted a 
congregation 


Amore effective weapon in the hands of the missionaries was their 
network of educational institutions. The South Indian Missionary 
Conference held in 1858 had left nobody in doubt as to what the 
missionary schools and colleges were trying to achieve. “The object of all 
missionary labour,” proclaimed the Conference report, “is, or should be 
not primarily the civilization but the evangelisation of the heathen. Schools 
may be regarded as converting agencies, and their value estimated by the 
number who are led by the instruction they receive to renounce idolatry 
and make an open profession of Christianity; or the principal object aimed 
at may be the raising up of Native helpers in the Missionary work. Each of 
these is a legitimate object of Missionary labour and the value of any 
system of education as a Missionary Agency, must be tested by its 
adaptedness to accomplish one or more of these objects.”- The Bible was 
compulsory reading in all missionary schools and colleges. A Christian 
atmosphere was created all around by daily public worship, conversations 
and essay competitions on theological themes, textbooks which praised 
Christianity and denounced Hinduism, and employment of as many 
Christian teachers as possible. 


Missionary education was showing results in Hindu homes. “The 
nation regrets,” wrote The Hindu Reformer and Politician of Madras, “that 
money and trouble are spent on young men who return to their household 
with contempt for the practices and beliefs of their relations and ancestors, 
and the young men regret that their homes and community are attached to 


what seems to them to be foolishness and superstition.”- Only a few 
Hindus who attended missionary schools and colleges came out unscathed. 
Among these few there could be found some spirited ones whose self- 
respect had been hurt by the missionary campaign against everything they 
cherished most and who harboured in their hearts nothing but contempt for 
Christianity. But they were helpless because the missionaries had a 
monopoly of educational institutions. 


Hindus did try to meet the challenge with whatever means they could 
mobilise, but there was no question of matching missionary resources. 
Their ancient and catholic culture inhibited them from descending to the 
level of the missionaries, either in language or in demonstrativeness. The 
missionaries were aware of these tolerant and civilized inhibitions and 
were able to exploit them until the Theosophist leaders, Madame 
Blavatsky and Colonel Olcott, arrived on the scene in 1878. They knew 
Christianity A to Z and had witnessed its rapid decline in the West due to 
the humanist and rationalist examination of Christian scriptures, Christian 
institutions and Christian history. Their sympathies were entirely with 
Hinduism which they honoured as the most ancient and profound religion 
known to man. From their headquarters at Adyar, Madras, they started 
publishing magazines which described the missionaries as “thickskulled, 
bigoted bloodhounds” and Christianity as “the purest idiotic trash.” The 
Bible for them was “senseless gossip”, “the most disgusting filth”, and the 
“obscenest book ever touched by human hands.” The captions and 
conclusions were backed by evidence from Christian sources. The writings 
of Bradlaugh, the anti-Christian British labour leader, also became known 
to the Hindus around this time. 


The cumulative result of all these developments was the formation of 
the Hindus Tract Society in 1887. It had its headquarters in Madras. “We 
have painfully witnessed,” said the founders of the Society, “the injustice 
done to our religion by foreign and native Christian missionaries. Baseless 
charges were trumped up against it; and relying on the poverty of the 
masses and the ignorance that generally prevails among them regarding 


their own religion and their own traditions, those apostles of foreign creeds 
have, by means fair or foul, attempted and even succeeded to some extent 
in leading our poor brethren astray. This aroused in us the instinct of self- 
preservation, and made us see the need of some organisation like the 
present one; and since the Christian propaganda could only thrive by 
destroying the better religion bequeathed to us by our ancestors, we were 
obliged to use against the missionaries their own weapons.”- The Society 
soon engaged itself in publishing tracts, sending out Hindu preachers and 
arranging open air lectures. 


We do not have any of the tracts before us, but a quotation from one of 
them published in 1888 shows the trend. “How many hundreds of 
thousands,” it said, “have these padres turned to Christianity and keep on 
turning! How many hundreds of children have they swallowed up! On how 
many more they have cast their nets! How much evil is yet to come upon 
us by their means! If we sleep as heretofore, in a short time they will turn 
all to Christianity without exceptions, and our temples will he changed 
into churches... When Christianity has laid waste the land, will a blade of 
Hinduism grow there? When the flood rushes up over our heads it will be 
too late. It is because of our carelessness that these strangers insult our 
gods in the open streets during our festivals.”- The names of the tracts 
which followed in 1889 are interesting - “Jesus only a man”, “Are we also 
sinners?”, “Is Jesus Christ God ?”, “Supporting idol-worship and refuting 
Christianity”, “Why should missionaries despise other religions without 
examining their own?”, “History of Christianity”, “Women’s position 
according to the Bible”, “The evil disguises and inconsistencies of the 
Salvation Army”, “Jehovah’s character according to the Bible”. 


The Hindu Tract Society was followed by the Advaita Sabha of 
Kumbakonam formed in 1895 and the Shaiva Siddhanta Sabha of South 
India formed in 1896. They met the missionary challenge in their own 
ways. More and more skeletons were brought out of Christianity’s 
cupboard. The missionaries found it hard to hide them. They were being 


given a taste of their own medicine. Rev. Woodward had observed 
triumphantly in 1887 that “Christianity and Hinduism are in deadly 
conflict” and that “Hinduism is being put on its mettle.”- By the end of the 
decade, his brethren in the various missions were moaning that Hinduism 
was shedding its traditional tolerance and showing hostility towards a 
sister religion! 

Footnotes: 

- Quoted by S. Manickam, ‘Hindu Reaction to Missionary 
Activities in the Negapatam and Trichinopoly District of the 
Methodists, \%1 Q-\92A\Indian Church History Review. December 
1981,p. 84. 

- Ibid., p. 82. 

- Ibid., p. 83. 

- Quoted in Ibid., p. 91. 

- Quoted in Ibid., p. 95. 

- Quoted in Ibid., p. 88. 

- Quoted in Ibid., p. 89. 

- Quoted in Ibid., p. 87. 


13 

Encounter with Swami Vivekananda 


The spokesman for Hinduism in the next dialogue between Hinduism 
and Christianity was Swami Vivekananda (1863-1902). A significant 
feature of this dialogue was that, for the most part, it was held in the 
homelands of Christianity. Vivekananda not only carried the message of 
Hinduism to the USA and Europe during his two trips from 1893 to 1897 
and from 1899 to 1900, he also turned the tide against Christianity in India 
so far as educated, upper class Hindus were concerned. Henceforward, 
Christian missionaries would reap a harvest either in the tribal belts or 
during famines when charitable organisations abroad and a patronising 
government at home placed funds for relief at their disposal and Hindu 
orphans fell into their hands in large numbers. 


Vivekananda himself symbolised an irony of that system of education 
which had been deliberately designed to demolish Hinduism and promote 
Christianity. He was himself a product of that very education, but he 
turned against Christianity and in defence of Hinduism the knowledge and 
intellectual discipline which he had acquired as a student in a missionary 
college. 


The renewal of East India Company’s Charter in 1813 had opened the 
Company’s dominions to Christian missionaries. It had also advised 
“introduction of useful knowledge and religious and moral improvement.” 
A controversy had been going on ever since regarding the system of 
education suitable for India. The Orientalists among the British rulers 
advocated retention of the traditional Indian system. They were afraid that 
imparting of Western knowledge to natives would encourage them to claim 
equality with white men and demand democratisation of the 
administration. The Anglicists, on the other hand, were convinced that 



knowledge of Western literature, philosophy and science would wean 
Hindus away from their “ancestral superstitions” and draw them closer to 
the religion and culture of the ruling race. 


Christian missionaries were, by and large, with the Anglicists. One of 
them had written in 1822 that, through Western education, Hindus “now 
engaged in the degrading and polluting worship of idols shall be brought 
to the knowledge of true God and Jesus Christ whom He has sent.”- 
Missionaries felt immensely strengthened when Alexander Duff, an ardent 
advocate of Western education, reached Calcutta in 1830. 


Alexander Duff was convinced that “of all the systems of false religion 
ever fabricated by the perverse ingenuity of fallen men, Hinduism is surely 
the most stupendous”- and that India was “the chief seat of Satan’s earthly 
dominion.”- He studied for some time the effect which Western education 
was having on Hindu young men attending the Hindu College and similar 
institutions which had come up in Calcutta and elsewhere in Bengal since 
more than a decade before his arrival. He came to the definite conclusion 
that Western education would make the Hindus “perfect unbelievers in 
their own system” and “perfect believers in Christianity.” In an address 
delivered in 1835 to a General Church Assembly he proclaimed that 
knowledge of Western literature and science would “demolish the huge 
and hideous fabric of Hinduism” brick by brick till “the whole will be 
found to have crumbled into fragments .”- 


A Committee of Public Instruction had been set up by the Government 
for recommending a suitable system of education. Alexander Duff had 
been made a member of the Committee in 1834. Next year, T. B. 
Macaulay, a member of the Governor General’s Council, was appointed to 
preside over the Committee. He wrote a Minute on February 2, 1835, 
advocating Western education. There was a tie between the Anglicists and 
the Orientalists when the Minute came before the Committee on March 7. 


Macaulay used his casting vote and forced a decision. The Western system 
of education was adopted. In a letter written to his father in 1836, 
Macaulay predicated, “It is my firm belief that if our plans of education are 
followed up, there will not be a single idolater among the respectable 
classes of Bengal thirty years hence 


The missionaries were trying hard to turn the dream into a reality. 
“And in what country,” Louis Rousslet, a French traveller to India, wrote 
in 1876, “could such a spectacle be witnessed as that which met my eyes 
that day in this square of Benares? There, at ten paces from all that the 
Hindoo holds to be most sacred in religion, between the Source of wisdom 
and the idol of Siva, a Protestant missionary had taken his stand beneath a 
tree. Mounted on a chair, he was preaching in the Hindostani language, on 
the Christian religion and the errors of paganism. I heard his shrill voice, 
issuing from the depths of a formidable shirt-collar, eject these words at 
the crowd, which respectfully and attentively surrounded him You are 
idolaters; that block of stone which you worship has been taken from a 
quarry, it is no better than the stone of my house. The reproaches called 
forth no murmur; the missionary was listened to immovably, but his 
dissertation was attended to, for every now and then one of the audience 
would put a question, to which the brave apostle replied as best as he 
could. Perhaps we should be disposed to admire the courage of the 
missionary if the well-known toleration of the Hindoos did not defraud 
him of all his merit; and it is this tolerance that most disheartens the 
missionary one of whom said to me - our labours are in vain; you can 
never convert a man who has sufficient conviction in his own religion to 
listen, without moving a muscle, to all the attacks you can make against 
it.”^ 


The fond hope that Hinduism will die out before long was expressed 
by Richard Temple before a Christian audience in England in 1883. “India 
is like a mighty bastion,” he wrote, “which is being battered by heavy 
artillery. We have given blow after blow, and thud after thud, and the effect 


is not at first very remarkable; but at last with a crash the mighty structure 
will come toppling down, and it is our hope that some day the heathen 
religions of India will in like manner succumb.”- At the same time, he felt 
sure that Christianity had a very bright future in India. “But we are not 
chasing a shadow,” he continued, “we are not rolling a Sisyphean stone, 
we are not ascending an inaccessible hill; or, if we are going up hill, it is 
that sort of ascent which soon leads to a summit, from which we shall 
survey the promised land. And when we reach the top what prospect shall 
we see? We shall see churches in India raising up their spires towards 
heaven, Christian villages extending over whole tracts of country, churches 
crowded with dusky congregations and dusky communicants at the altar 
tables. We shall hear the native girls singing hymns in the vernacular, and 
see boys trooping to school or studying for the universities under 
missionary auspices. Those things, and many others, I have seen, and 
would to God I could fix them on the minds of my audience as they are 
fixed upon my own.”- Vivekananda shattered the hope and the dream in 
the next decade. 


Narendranath Datta, who was to become Swami Vivekananda, was 
born in 1863, the year when Alexander Duff left India well satisfied that 
Hinduism was on its way out and Christianity on its way in, at least in 
Bengal. Macaulay’s prediction appeared to be coming true as there had 
been a spate of conversions to Christianity. In 1832 Alexander Duff had 
converted Krishnamohan Banerji, a student of the Hindu College. Banerji, 
in turn, converted fifty-nine young men in the next few years. He became a 
minister of the Christ Church and was “instrumental in converting several 
hundred Hindus in Krishnanagar in 1839.”- The other important converts 
made by Duff were K. C. Banerji and M. L. Basak in 1839 and Lai Behari 
De and Madhusudan Dutta in 1843. 


Leaders of the Brahmo Samaj were perturbed and tried to arrest the 
trend. A meeting held in Calcutta in May 1845 and attended by a thousand 
Hindus, gave a call that Hindus should not send their boys to missionary 


schools and colleges. Some funds were collected for promoting Hindu 
educational and humanitarian institutions. But their efforts did not make 
much headway. The missionaries commanded much larger resources and 
official patronage. There was a craze for Western education which was 
thought best when imparted in missionary institutions. Moreover, the 
coming of Keshub Chunder Sen to the top in the Brahmo Samaj gave a 
further blow to Hinduism. He was infatuated with Jesus and the Bible and 
made hysterical outbursts in praise of both. 


The only resolute defender of Hinduism in this intellectually hostile 
atmosphere was Bankim Chandra Chatterji. He was well-versed in 
Western literature and philosophy and his knowledge of Hindu Shastras 
and history was deep as well as discerning. He had come to the definite 
conclusion that Hindus had nothing to learn from Christianity. For him, 
Jesus was “an incomplete man”, the Christian God “a despot” and the 
Christian doctrine of everlasting punishment “devilish”. He repudiated the 
missionary accusation that Hinduism was responsible for corruptions that 
had crept into Hindu society in the course of history. “If the principles of 
Christianity,” he wrote, “are not responsible for the slaughter of the 
crusades, the butcheries of Alva, the massacre of St. Bartholomew or the 
flames of the Inquisition... If the principles of Christianity are not 
responsible for the civil disabilities of Roman Catholics and Jews which 
till recently disgraced the English Statute Book, I do not understand how 
the principles of Hinduism are to be held responsible for the civil 
disabilities of the sudras under the Brahmanic regime. The critics of 
Hinduism have one measure for their own religion and another for 
Hinduism.”— For him, Sri Krishna was the highest ideal, both human and 
divine. His novels and essays were creating a consciousness of pride in the 
Hindu heritage in that large section of Hindu society which had not yet 
passed under the spell of Jesus. 


Narendranath was a student in Alexander Duffs General Assembly’s 
Institution which later on became the Scottish Church College. He had 
made a wide study of Western literature, history and philosophy, had 


joined the Brahmo Samaj and come to share Keshub Chunder Sen’s 
admiration for Jesus. But a turning point came in his life when he met Sri 
Ramakrishna Paramahamsa in November 1880. For the first time, he was 
face to face with a powerful expression of Hindu spirituality and that, too, 
in a simple man who had not been even to a primary school. His travels all 
over India after Sri Ramakrishna’s death gave him further glimpses of how 
Hindu spirituality had percolated effortlessly to the lowest levels of Hindu 
society. He was thus in a position to process Christianity from the vantage 
point of a new vision. In the end, he frustrated Alexanders Duff’s hope and 
falsified Macaulay’s and Temple’s prediction. 


Sri Ramakrishna had never heard of Jesus till Jesus was thrust under 
his nose by those disciples who had come to him from the fold of Keshub 
Chunder Sen. Mahendra Nath Gupta, whose record of the talks of Sri 
Ramakrishna was to become famous as The Gospel of Sri Ramakrishna 
had an infantile fascination for Jesus and never missed an opportunity to 
compare the sayings and doings of Jesus with those of the Paramahamsa. 
But to the last, Jesus remained for Sri Ramakrishna only a figure which 
people belonging to a foreign religion worshipped as God. He did not have 
even a remote knowledge of the dogmas of Christianity. The only dogma, 
that of the original sin, which was presented to him by some disciples, he 
repudiated with repugnance. “Once someone gave me,” he said on October 
27, 1882, “a book of the Christians. I asked him to read it to me. It talked 
about nothing but sin.” Turning to Keshub Chunder Sen, who was present, 
he continued, “Sin is the only thing one hears at your Brahmo Samaj too... 
He who says day and night, T am a sinner, I am a sinner’, verily becomes 
a sinner... Why should one only talk about sin and hell, and such things?”— 
Thus he knocked the bottom out of Christianity. Without sin, there was no 
need for the atoning death of a historical saviour. 


Vivekananda carried forward the same idea. “The greatest error,” he 
said, “is to call a man a weak and miserable sinner. Every time a person 
thinks in this mistaken manner, he rivets one more link in the chain of 
avidyA that binds him, adds one more layer to the “self-hypnotism” that 


lies heavy over his mind.”— He compared the Hindu and Christian 
concepts of the soul. “One of the chief distinctions,” he said, “between the 
Vedic and the Christian religion is that the Christian religion teaches that 
each human soul had its beginning at its birth into this world, whereas the 
Vedic religion asserts that the spirit of man is an emanation of the Eternal 
Being and has no more a beginning than God Himself.”— He hailed 
humans as Children of Immortal Bliss - amritasya putrAH - in the 
language of the Upanishads. “Ye are the children of God,” he proclaimed 
while addressing the Parliament of Religions, “the sharers of immortal 
bliss, holy and perfect beings. Ye divinities on earth - sinners! It is a sin to 
call man so; it is a standing libel on human nature. Come up, lions! and 
shake off the delusion that you are sheep; you are souls immortal, spirits 
free, blest and eternal.”— 


Vivekananda repudiated the idea of vicarious saving also. He 
proclaimed the Hindu doctrine that everyone has to work out his own 
salvation. “The Christians believe,” he said, “that Jesus Christ died to save 
man. With you it is belief in a doctrine, and this belief constitutes your 
salvation. With us doctrine has nothing whatever to do with salvation. 
Each one may believe in whatever doctrine he likes; or in no doctrine. 
What difference does it make to you whether Jesus Christ lived at a certain 
time or not? What has it to do with you that Moses saw God in the burning 
bush? The fact that Moses saw God in the burning bush does not constitute 
your seeing him, does it?... Records of great spiritual men in the past do us 
no good whatever except that they urge us onward to do the same, to 
experience religion ourselves. Whatever Christ or Moses or anybody else 
did, does not help us in the least, except to urge us on.”— 


He was aware that the historicity of Christ had become highly 
controversial among scholars of the subject. “There is a great dispute,” he 
wrote, “as to whether there ever was born a man with the name of Jesus. 
Of the four books comprising the New Testament, the Book of St. John has 
been rejected by some as spurious. As to the remaining three, the verdict is 


that they have been copied from ancient books; and that, too, long after the 
date ascribed to Jesus Christ. Moreover, about the time that Jesus is 
believed to have been born, among the Jews themselves there were bom 
two historians, Josephus and Philo. They have mentioned even petty sects 
among the Jews but not made the least reference to Jesus or the Christians 
or that the Roman judge sentenced him to death on the cross. Josephus’ 
book had a single line about it, which has now been proved to be an 
interpolation. The Romans used to mle over the Jews at that time, and the 
Greeks taught them all arts and Sciences. They have all written a good 
many things about the Jews but made no mention of either Jesus or the 
Christians.” He also knew that doubts had been raised whether Jesus had 
himself said what was attributed to him in the gospels. “Another 
difficulty,” he continued, “is that the sayings, precepts, or doctrines which 
the New Testament preaches were already in existence among the Jews 
before the Christian era, having come from different quarters, and were 
being preached by Rabbis like Hillel and others.”— 


The miracles of Christ also failed to impress Vivekananda. In fact, they 
repelled him strongly. “What were the great powers of Christ,” he asked, 
“in miracles and healing, in one of his characters? They were low, vulgar 
things because he was among vulgar beings... Any fool could do those 
things. Fools heal others, devils can heal others. I have seen horrible 
demoniacal men do wonderful miracles. They seem to manufacture fruits 
out of the earth. I have known fools and diabolical men tell the past, 
present and future. I have seen fools heal at a glance, by the will, the most 
horrible diseases. These are powers, truly, but often demoniacal powers.”— 


And he was not at all interested in the historical Jesus. “One gets sick 
at heart,” he said, “at the different accounts of the life of the Christ that 
Western people give. One would make him a great politician; another, 
perhaps, would make of him a great military general, another a great 
patriotic Jew; and so on.”— What interested him was Jesus the spiritual 
teacher. He saw several points of strength in the life and teachings of 


Jesus, particularly the purity of heart and renunciation of worldly pursuits. 
“If you want to be Christian,” he said, “it is not necessary to know whether 
Christ was born in Jerusalem or Bethlehem or just the exact date on which 
he pronounced the Sermon on the Mount; you only require to feel the 
Sermon on the Mount. It is not necessary to read 2000 words on when it 
was delivered. All that is for the enjoyment of the learned. Let them have 
it; say amen to that. Let us eat the mango.”— 


Christians were welcome to seek salvation through Christ. According 
to Hinduism, everyone has the right to choose his own ishTadeva. “It is 
absolutely necessary,” he said, “to worship God as man, and blessed are 
those races which have such a ‘God-man’ in Christ; therefore, cling close 
to Christ; never give up Christ. That is the natural way to see God in man. 
All our ideas of God are concentrated there.” Christians go wrong only 
when they insist that Christ is the only saviour. “The great limitation 
Christians have,” he continued, “is that they do not heed other 
manifestations of God besides Christ. He was a manifestation of God; so 
was Buddha, so were some others, and there will be hundreds of others. 
Do not limit God anywhere.”— Delivering a lecture on ‘Christ, the 
Messenger’, he quoted Sri Krishna, “Wherever thou findest a great soul of 
immense power and purity struggling to raise humanity, know that he is 
born of My splendour, that I am working there through him.” And he 
advised the Christians, “Let us, therefore, find God not only in Jesus of 
Nazareth but in all the great ones that have preceded him, in all that came 
after him, and all that are yet to come. Our worship is unbounded. They 
are all manifestations of the same infinite God.”— 


Yet it was Christ that Vivekananda found missing from Christianity. He 
wondered which Church, if any, represented Christ. All churches were 
equally intolerant, each threatening to kill those who did not believe as it 
did.— The person of Christ rather than his teaching had become more 
important for Christianity. He had been turned into the “only begotten son 
of God.”— Christian baptism remained external and did not touch the inner 


man. It aimed at instilling some mental beliefs and not at transforming 
human behaviour. Most men remained the same after baptism as they were 
before it. What was worse, the mere sprinkling of water over them and 
muttering of formulas by a priest made them believe that they were better 
than other people. He quoted the Kenopanishad in this context: “Ever 
steeped in the darkness of ignorance, yet considering themselves wise and 
learned, the fools go round and round, staggering to and fro like the blind 
led by the blind.”— The Eucharist was nothing more than the survival of a 
savage custom. “They sometimes killed their great chiefs,” said 
Vivekananda, “and ate their flesh in order to obtain in themselves the 
qualities which made their leaders great.” Human sacrifice was a Jewish 
idea which was borrowed by Christianity “in the form of atonement.” This 
seeking for a “scapegoat” had made Christianity “develop a spirit of 
persecution and bloodshed.”— 


Christian missionaries were attacking the Puranas for containing 
passages which they considered somewhat obscene. Vivekananda had 
studied the Bible and knew that it contained a lot which was downright 
pornography. But he had his own method of exposing the Bible. “The 
Chinese,” he wrote, “are the disciples of Confucius, are the disciples of 
Buddha, and their morality is quite strict and refined. Obscene language, 
obscene books, pictures, any conduct the least obscene - and the offender 
is punished then and there. The Christian missionaries translated the Bible 
into Chinese tongue. Now in the Bible there are some passages so obscene 
as to put to shame some of the Puranas of the Hindus. Reading those 
indecorous passages, the Chinamen were so exasperated against 
Christianity that they made a point of never allowing the Bible to be 
circulated in their country... The simpleminded Chinese were disgusted, 
and raised a cry, saying: Oh, horror! This religion has come to us to ruin 
our young boys, by giving them this Bible to read... This is why the 
Chinese are very indignant with Christianity. Otherwise the Chinese are 
very tolerant towards other religions. I hear that the missionaries have 
printed an edition, leaving out the objectionable parts; but this step has 
made the Chinese more suspicious than before.”— 


The history of Christianity in Europe and elsewhere had simply 
horrified Vivekananda, as it does any person with any moral sensibility. 
Besides being blood-soaked, Christianity has been inimical to all free 
enquiry. “The ancient Greeks,” wrote Vivekananda, “who were the first 
teachers of European civilisation attained the zenith of their culture long 
before the Christians. Ever since they became Christians, all their learning 
and culture was extinguished.”— When he was passing by Egypt on his 
way to Europe, a missionary mentioned to him the miracles which, 
according to the Bible, Moses had performed in that country. But 
Vivekananda had read history. He knew the record of Christianity in 
Egypt. “Here was the city of Alexandria,” he said, “famous all over the 
world for its university, its library, and its literati - that Alexandria which, 
falling into the hands of illiterate, bigoted and vulgar Christians suffered 
destruction, with its library burnt to ashes and learning stamped out. 
Einally, the Christians killed the lady savant, Hypatia, subjected her dead 
body to all sorts of abominable insult, and dragged it through the streets, 
till every bit of flesh was removed from her bones.”— 


Christianity had spread with the help of the sword since the days of 
Constantine and tried to suppress science and philosophy. “What support,” 
asked Vivekananda, “has Christianity ever lent to the spread of civilisation, 
either spiritual or secular? What reward did the Christian religion offer to 
the European Pandit who sought to prove for the first time that the Earth is 
a revolving planet? What scientist has ever been hailed with approval and 
enthusiasm by the Christian Church?” Coming to modem times, 
Vivekananda found Christianity very vindictive: “The great thinkers of 
Europe Voltaire, Darwin, Buchner, Elammarion, Victor Hugo and a host of 
others like him - are in the present time denounced by Christianity and are 
victims of vituperative tongues of its orthodox community.”— 


Christian missionaries in India were crediting to Christianity the rise 
and progress of modern Europe. This was a great falsehood. “Whatever 
heights of progress Europe has attained,” continued Vivekananda, “every 
one of them has been gained by its revolt against Christianity - by its rising 
against the Gospel. If Christianity had its old paramount sway in Europe 
today, it would have lighted the fire of the Inquisition against such modern 
scientists as Pasteur and Koch, and burnt Darwin and others of his school 
at the stake. In modern Europe Christianity and civilization are two 
different things. Civilization has now girded up her loins to destroy her old 
enemy, Christianity, to overthrow the clergy and to wring educational and 
charitable institutions from their hands. But for the ignorance-ridden rustic 
masses, Christianity would never have been able for a moment to support 
its present despised existence, and would have been pulled out by its roots; 
for the urban poor are, even now, enemies of the Christian Church!”— 


Christian missionaries were citing the prosperity of the modern West as 
an example of the superiority of Christianity. Much of that prosperity, 
however, was derived from the plunder of other peoples. “We who have 
come from the East,” he said in an interview to a U.S. newspaper on 
September 29, 1893, “have sat here day after day and have been told to 
accept Christianity because Christian nations are the most prosperous. We 
look about us and see England, the most prosperous Christian nation in the 
world, with her foot on the neck of 250,000,000 Asiatics. We look back 
into history and see that the prosperity of Christian Europe began with 
Spain. Spain’s prosperity began with the invasion of Mexico. Christianity 
wins its prosperity by cutting the throats of its fellow men. At such a price 
the Hindu will not have prosperity. I have sat here and heard the height of 
intolerance. I have heard the creed of Moslems applauded, when the 
Moslem sword is carrying destruction into India. Blood and sword are not 
for the Hindu, whose religion is based on the laws of love.”— The 
newspaper described it as a “savage attack on Christian nations.” 
Vivekananda had a lot to say on Western colonialism and the massacre of 
natives in America, Australia, New Zealand and elsewhere. But that is not 
the subject at present. 


What really amazed him was the utter lack of logic in Christian 
propaganda. “On metaphysical lines,” he wrote on his return to India in 
1897, “no nation on earth can hold a candle to the Hindus; and curiously 
all the fellows that come over here from Christian lands have that one 
antiquated foolishness of an argument that because the Christians are 
powerful and rich and Hindus are not, so Christianity must be better than 
Hinduism. To which the Hindus very aptly retort that, that is the very 
reason why Hinduism is a religion and Christianity is not; because in this 
beastly world, it is blackguardism and that alone which prospers, virtue 
always suffers.”— 


Hindus have nothing to gain from Christianity as it is only a system of 
superstitions. Hindus should not get frightened when the missionaries 
threaten them with hell; in fact, hell is better than the company of a 
Christian missionary. “There came a Christian to me once,” recalled 
Vivekananda, “and said, ‘You are a terrible sinner.’ I said, ‘Yes, I am. Go 
on.’ He was a Christian missionary. That man would not give me any rest. 
When I see him I fly. He said, ‘I have very good things for you. You are a 
sinner and you will go to hell.’ I said, ‘Very good, what else?’ I asked him, 
‘Where are you going?’ ‘I am going to heaven,’ he answered. I said, ‘I will 
go to hell.’ “That day he gave me up.” If Christ could help people become 
good, why has he failed in the Christian countries where he has been 
worshipped for so long? “Here comes a Christian man,” continued 
Vivekananda, “and he says, ‘You are all doomed; but if you believe in this 
doctrine, Christ will help you out.’ If this were true - but of course it is 
nothing but superstition - there would be no wickedness in Christian 
countries. Let us believe in it - belief costs nothing - but why is there no 
result? If I ask, ‘Why is it that there are so many wicked people?’ They 
say, ‘We have to work more.’ Trust in God but keep your power dry!”— 


Criticism of Christianity, however, was not the primary task which 
Vivekananda had set for himself. He was first and foremost an exponent of 


Hinduism. He had to speak out about Christianity because the missionaries 
forced it upon him by their unceasing sallies against Hinduism. This is not 
the occasion even for a summary of his voluminous writings and speeches 
on various aspects of the subject he loved above all. We shall only touch a 
few points which he upheld against missionary attack. 


The missionaries were highly critical of the Vedas which Hindus have 
always held in the highest esteem. Vivekananda upheld the Vedas as 
depositories of divine wisdom. For him, scriptures like the Bible and the 
Quran were paurusheya, that is, revelations accessible only to particular 
persons whose experience could not be verified by other people. The 
Vedas, on the other hand, were apaurusheya, that is, statements of spiritual 
truths which any seeker could verify by spiritual practice. “Although we 
find,” he said, “many names, and many speakers, and many teachers in the 
Upanishads, not one of them stands as an authority of the Upanishads, not 
one verse is based upon the life of any one of them. These are simple 
figures like shadows moving in the background, unfelt, unseen, unrealised, 
but the real force is in the marvellous, the brilliant, the effulgent texts of 
the Upanishads, perfectly impersonal. If twenty Yajnavalkyas came and 
lived and died, it does not matter; the texts are there. And yet it is against 
no personality: it is broad and expansive enough to embrace all the 
personalities that the world has yet produced, and all that are yet to come. 
It has nothing to say against the worship of persons, or Avataras, or sages. 
On the other hand, it is always upholding it. At the same time, it is 
perfectly impersonal.”— Rather than processing the Vedas in terms of the 
Bible, as the Brahmos had started doing, the Bible should be weighed on 
the Vedic scale and prove its worth. “So far as the Bible,” he observed, 
“and the scriptures of other nations agree with the Vedas, they are perfectly 
good, but when they do not agree, they are no more to be accepted.”— On 
another occasion he said, “It is in the Vedas that we have to study our 
religion. With the exception of the Vedas every book must change. The 
authority of the Vedas is for all time to come; the authority of every one of 
our other books is for the time being. For instance, one Smriti is powerful 
for one age, another for another age.”— 


Brahmanas were the next target of missionary attack. Vivekananda 
stood by these custodians of Hinduism. “The ideal man of our ancestors,” 
he said, “was the Brahmin. In all our books stands out prominently this 
ideal of the Brahmin. In Europe there is my Lord the Cardinal, who is 
struggling hard and spending thousands of pounds to prove the nobility of 
his ancestors and he will not be satisfied until he has traced his ancestry to 
some dreadful tyrant who lived on a hill and watched the people passing 
by, and whenever he had the opportunity, sprang out and robbed them... In 
India, on the other hand, the greatest princes seek to trace their descent to 
.some ancient sage who dressed in a bit of loin cloth, lived in a forest, 
eating roots and studying the Vedas... You are of the high caste when you 
can trace your ancestry to a Rishi, and not otherwise... Our ideal is the 
Brahmin of spiritual culture and renunciation.”— 


Another practice of Hinduism which the missionaries never missed 
pillorying was idolatry. “It has become a trite saying,” said Vivekananda, 
“that idolatry is wrong and every man swallows it without questioning. I 
once thought so, and to pay the penalty of that I had to learn my lesson 
sitting at the feet of a man who realised everything through idols. I allude 
to Ramakrishna Paramahamsa. If such Ramakrishna Paramahamsas are 
produced by idol-worship, what will you have - the reformer’s creed or 
any number of idols? I want an answer. Take a thousand idols more if you 
can produce Ramakrishna Paramahamsas through idol-worship, and may 
God speed you! Produce such noble natures by any means you can. Yet 
idolatry is condemned! Why? Nobody knows. Because some hundreds of 
years ago some man of Jewish blood happened to condemn it? That is, he 
happened to condemn everybody else’s idols except his own. If God is 
represented in any beautiful form or any symbolic form, said the Jew, it is 
awfully bad; it is sin. But if He is represented in the form of a chest, with 
two angels sitting on each side, and a cloud hanging over it, it is the holy 
of holies. If God comes in the form of a dove, it is holy. But if He comes in 
the form of a cow, it is heathen superstition; condemn it! That is how the 
world goes. That is why the poet says, ‘what fools we mortals be!’... Boys, 


moustached babies, who never went out of Madras, standing up and 
wanting to dictate laws to three hundred millions of people who have 
thousands of traditions at their back!”— 


Lastly, he defended the caste system, the bete noire of all missionaries 
and reformers inspired by them. “Caste is a very good thing,” he said. 
“Caste is the plan we want to follow... There is no country in the world 
without caste. In India, from caste we reach the point where there is no 
caste. Caste is based throughout on that principle. The plan in India is to 
make everybody a Brahmin, the Brahmin being the ideal of humanity. If 
you read the history of India you will find that attempts have always been 
made to raise the lower classes. Many are the classes that have been raised. 
Many more will follow till the whole will become Brahmin. That is the 
plan. We have to raise them without bringing down anybody... Indian caste 
is better than the caste which prevails in Europe or America. I do not say it 
is absolutely good. Where would you be if there were no caste? Where 
would be your learning and other things, if there were no caste? There 
would be nothing left for Europeans to study if caste had never existed. 
The Mohammedans would have smashed everything to pieces.”— Caste 
was never a stationary institution. “Caste is continually changing,” said 
Vivekananda, “rituals are continually changing, it is the substance, the 
principle that does not change... Caste should not go; but should only he 
readjusted occasionally. Within the old structure is to be found life enough 
for the building of two hundred thousand new ones. It is sheer nonsense to 
desire the abolition of caste. The new method is - evolution of the old.”— 


The great strength of Hinduism is that it does not lay down one dogma 
for everybody as is the case with Christianity and Islam. “The fault with 
all religions like Christianity,” said Vivekananda, “is that they have one set 
of rules for all. But Hindu religion is suited to all grades of religious 
aspiration and progress. It contains all the ideas in their perfect form.”— A 
universality which does not preserve individuality is false. “Individuality 
in universality,” he continued, “is the plan of creation... Man is individual 


and at the same time .universal. It is while raising the individual that we 
realise even our national and universal nature.”— It is because of this spirit 
of universality that Hinduism has never been a persecuting religion: “You 
know that the Hindu religion never persecutes. It is the land where all sects 
may live in peace and unity. The Mohammedans brought murder and 
slaughter in their train, but until their arrival peace prevailed.”— 


The hour had come for Hinduism to carry its message abroad once 
more: “India was once a great missionary power. Hundreds of years before 
England was converted to Christianity, Buddha sent out missionaries to 
convert the world of Asia to his doctrine.”— Vivekananda had himself 
given the lead. “I have planted the seed,” he wrote from America to the 
Raja of Khetri, “in this country; it is already a plant, and I expect it to be a 
tree very soon. The more the Christian priests oppose me, the more I am 
determined to leave a permanent mark on their country.”— 


It was natural that Christian missionaries should notice Vivekananda 
the moment he spoke at the Parliament of Religions. They had never heard 
of the man before. They went into action in both the U.S.A. and India and 
were joined by some Brahmos of Keshub’s school. “They joined,” 
reported Vivekananda in a speech at Madras soon after his return, “the 
other opposition - the Christian missionaries. There is not one black lie 
imaginable that these latter did not invent against me. They blackened my 
character from city to city, poor and friendless though I was in a foreign 
country. They tried to oust me from every house and make every man who 
became my friend my enemy. They tried to starve me out.” At the same 
time he hit out at the Brahmo leaders who saw salvation of India through 
Christianity. “I am sorry to say,” added Vivekananda, “that one of my own 
countrymen took part against me in this. He is the leader of a reform party 
in India. This gentleman is declaring every day, ‘Christ has come to India.’ 
Is this the way Christ is to come to India?... Is that the lesson that he had 
learnt after sitting twenty years at the feet of Christ? Our great reformers 
declare that Christianity and Christian power are going to uplift the Indian 


people. Is that the way to do it? Surely, if that gentleman is an illustration, 
it does not look very hopeful.”— 


J. Murrary Mitchell who was working as a missionary in India at that 
time reacted adversely to reports about Vivekananda’s popularity in the 
U.S.A. “We fear men from the East,” he wrote, “mistook politeness with 
which they were received as guests for sympathy with their opinions. Very 
singular at all events, have been the accounts that have been transmitted to 
Asia regarding the effect of their exposition of the Oriental creeds. They 
had carried the war into the enemy’s country, and were everywhere 
victorious.” He selected P. C. Mozumdar as the real representative of 
“advanced and intelligent Hindus” at the Parliament of Religions. 
Mozumdar had said, “Representatives of all religions, may all your 
religions merge in the Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man, so 
that Christ’s prophecy may be fulfilled and mankind become one Kingdom 
under God as our Father.” Mr. Mitchell regretted that Mozumdar did not 
draw the applause he deserved because of his admiration for Christianity. 
“But Mr. Protap Chunder Mozumdar,” he said, “seems to have made much 
less impression than a young man who has assumed the honorofic title of 
Swami a step which Mr. [Keshub Chunder] Sen never ventured to take. 
Mr. Mozumdar appeared in plain Western dress, the Swami stood arrayed 
in all the colours of the rainbow. The ladies clustered around him in 
admiration.” 


What had hurt Mr. Mitchell the most was Vivekananda’s denunciation 
of the doctrine of sin. “We need not dwell,” he mourned, “on the Swami’s 
teaching. Fet one specimen suffice.” He quoted verbatim what 
Vivekananda had said when he hailed people at the Parliament as “sharers 
of bliss” and “divinities on earth.” Vivekananda had hit Christianity in its 
solar plexus. How could Christianity thrive without selling sin? “We are 
truly sorry for the man,” concluded Mr. Mitchell, “who can thus trifle with 
his hearers with deeply solemn questions.”— 


Vivekananda was rather mild in his criticism of missionaries when he 
spoke in the Parliament of Religions on September 29, 1893. “You 
Christians, who are so fond of sending out missionaries to save the soul of 
the heathen why do you not try to save their bodies from starvation?... 
You erect Churches all through India but-the crying evil in the East is not 
religion - they have religion enough - but it is bread that the suffering 
millions of burning India cry out for with parched throats... It is an insult 
to a starving people to offer them religion; it is an insult to a starving man 
to teach him metaphysics.” He knew that missionaries were not preaching 
purely out of religious zeal; they had chosen the mission as a career and 
were paid for it. “In India,” he said, “a priest who preached for money 
would lose caste and be spat upon by the people.”— 


He spoke in the same Vein when he addressed the Parliament of 
Religions on October 11, 1893. “Christian missionaries,” he said, “come to 
offer life but only on condition that the Hindus became Christians, 
abandoning the faith of their fathers and forefathers. Is it right?... If you 
wish to illustrate the meaning of ‘brotherhood’, treat Hindus more kindly 
even though he be a Hindu and is faithful to his religion. Send 
missionaries to teach them how better to earn a piece of bread, and not 
teach them metaphysical nonsense.”— But when he noticed that even his 
mild comments on missionary activities were received with great 
resentment in Christian circles, his tone became sharp. The Detroit Free 
Press dated February 21, 1894 reported a lecture which he had delivered 
on ‘Hindus and Christians’. Coming to Christian missionaries he said, 
“You train and educate and pay men to do what? To come over to my 
country to curse and abuse all my forefathers, my religion, and everything. 
They walk near a temple and say, ‘You idolators, you will go to hell.’ But 
they dare not do that to the Mohammedans of India; the sword would be 
out. But the Hindu is too mild... And then you who train men to abuse and 
criticise, if I just touch you with the least bit of criticism, with the kindest 
purpose, you shrink and cry: ‘Don’t touch us; we are Americans. We 
criticise all the people in the world, curse them and abuse them, say 
anything, but do not touch us, we are sensitive plants?’... And whenever 
your ministers criticise us let them remember this: If all India stands up 


and takes all the mud that is at the bottom of the Indian ocean and throws 
it up against the Western countries, it will not be doing an infinitesimal 
part of that which you are doing to us. And what for? Did we ever send 
one missionary to convert anybody in the world? We say to you: 
‘Welcome to your religion, but allow me to have mine?’... With all your 
brags and boastings, where has Christianity succeeded without the sword? 
Show me one place in the whole world. One I say, throughout the history 
of the Christian religion - one; I do not want two. I know how your 
forefathers were converted. They had to be converted or killed; that was 
all. What can you do better than Mohammedanism, with all your 
bragging?”— 


As he heard the malicious propaganda against Hinduism which 
missionaries were mounting in America and saw ‘their methods of raising 
money’, he hit them hard. “What is meant,” he asked, “by those pictures in 
the school-books for children where the Hindu mother is painted as 
throwing her children to the crocodiles in the Ganga? The mother is black 
but the baby is painted white to arouse more sympathy, and get more 
money. What is meant by those pictures which paint a man burning his 
wife at a stake with his own hands, so that she becomes a ghost and 
torments the husband’s enemy? What is meant by the pictures of huge cars 
crushing over human beings? The other day a book was published for 
children in this country, where one of these gentlemen tells a narrative of 
his visit to Calcutta. He says he saw a car running over fanatics in the 
streets of Calcutta. I have heard one gentleman preach in Memphis that in 
every village of India there is a pond full of the bones of little children. 
What have the Hindus done to these disciples of Christ that every 
Christian child is taught to call the Hindus vile, and ‘wretches’ and the 
most horrible devils on earth? Part of the Sunday School education for 
children here consists in teaching them to hate everybody who is not a 
Christian, and the Hindu especially, so that from their very childhood they 
may subscribe their pennies to the missions.”— 


Vivekananda warned the missionaries about the effect which their 
propaganda was having on the moral and mental health of people who 
listened to them. “If not for the sake of truth,” he said, “for the sake of the 
morality of their own children, the Christian missionaries ought not to 
allow such things going on. Is it any wonder that such children grow up to 
be ruthless and cruel men and women?... A servant-girl in the employ of a 
friend of mine had to be sent to a lunatic asylum as a result of her 
attending what they call here a revivalist-preaching. The dose of hell-fire 
and brimstone was too much for her.”— 


He saw how various missions were competing for collecting money 
and pouring calumny on each other. “Those to whom religion is a trade,” 
he observed, “are forced to become narrow and mischievous by their 
introduction into religion of the competitive, fighting and selfish methods 
of the world.”— Having witnessed their ways, many educated Americans 
were losing respect for the missionaries. On the other hand, they were 
eager to listen to exponents of other cultures. “I have more friends,” he 
wrote in a letter to India in 1895, “than enemies, and only a small number 
of the educated care about the missionaries. Again, the very fact of the 
missionaries being against anything makes the educated like it. They are 
less of a power here now, and are becoming less so every day.”— 


While Vivekananda caused a stir among the intellectual elite of 
America as was obvious from reports in the American press, the 
missionary circles were infuriated. “The Christian missionaries,” wrote 
The Indian Mirror on June 23, 1897, “rage and fume over the success of 
Swami Vivekananda’s mission in America. In its impotent fury, the 
Missionary Review of the World says that ‘Swami Vivekananda is simply a 
specimen of the elation and inflation of a weak man over the adulation of 
some silly people. If America ever gives up Christ, it will be for the devil, 
not Buddha or Brahma or Confucius. It will be lapse into utter apostasy, 
unbelief and infidelity.’ The writer, when penning these lines, was 
evidently under a fit of insanity brought on by the unlooked for spectacle 


of a Hindu preacher making disciples among American members of the 
Christian Church.”— 


The Christian Literature Society which had its headquarters in London 
and a branch in Madras published a book, Swami Vivekananda and his 
Guru with letters from prominent Americans on the alleged programme of 
Vedantism in United States, in 1897. The book was reviewed by The 
Indian Mirror which wrote, “The object of the first part of this book is to 
show that, on account of his Shudra birth and for his want of knowledge as 
well as on the part of his Guru, Vivekananda is not qualified for teaching 
the Vedanta; that he, in consequence of his doings, is not entitled to be 
called a ‘Swami’; that Schopenhuer, the admirer of the Upanishads, was a 
bad man, and that Professor Max Muller (in connection with his opinion of 
Vedantic books) is a ‘man having two voices’.” 


Rev. Dr. W. W. White, Secretary to the College Young Men’s Christian 
Association of Calcutta, had written to “a number of ladies and gentlemen 
of America, mostly belonging to missions and educational institutions” in 
order to find out if there was any “likelihood of America abandoning 
Christianity and adopting... Hinduism... in its stead.” The replies he had 
received were reproduced in the second part of the above-mentioned book. 
“Some of the writers say,” continued The Indian Mirror, “that the Swami 
made no impression on the people, while some others asserted that the 
Swami may have made a few converts, but such converts were vaccilators 
and seekers of novelty. All of them consoled the enquirers with the 
assurance that Christianity had made a firm footing in America and there 
was no fear of its being Supplanted by any other religion.”— 


Vivekananda had said again and again that he was not out to make any 
converts to Hinduism and that what he aimed at was the deepening and 
purification of Christianity which had been vulgarised by theologians and 


debased by missionaries. But the missionaries had their fears and wanted 
to be reassured that their citadel was not in danger of imminent collapse. 


There was a corollary to Vivekananda’s defence of Hinduism and 
critique of Christianity, particularly of the Christian missions. He called 
upon Hindu society to open its doors and take back its members who had 
been alienated from it by foreign invaders. Christian as well as Islamic 
missionaries were taking advantage of Hindu orthodoxy which was 
reluctant to receive those who had been forced or lured away from the 
Hindu fold but who were now ready to return to the faith of their 
forefathers. Vivekananda viewed this orthodoxy as nothing but a blind 
prejudice induced by the Hindus’ deep distrust of imported creeds. The 
distrust he regarded as well founded but the prejudice against victims of 
force or fraud as unjustified. His thoughts on the subject were expressed in 
an interview he gave to the representative of the Prabuddha Bharata, a 
monthly magazine started by his disciples in Madras. The interview, 
published in the April 1899 issue of the monthly, deserves to be 
reproduced at some length: 

“I want to see you, Swami,” I began, “on this matter of receiving 
back into Hinduism those who have been perverted from it. Is it your 
opinion that they should be received?” 


“Certainly,” said the Swami, “they can and ought to be taken.” He 
sat gravely for a moment, thinking, and then resumed. “Besides,” he 
said, “we shall otherwise decrease in numbers. When the 
Mohammedans first came, we are said - I think on the authority of 
Ferishta, oldest Mohammedan historian - to have been six hundred 
millions of Hindus. Now we are about two hundred millions. And 
then every man going out of the Hindu pale is not only a man less, but 
an enemy the more. 



“Again, the vast majority of Hindu perverts to Islam and 
Christianity are perverts by the sword, or the descendants of these. It 
would be obviously unfair to subject these to disabilities of any kind. 
As to the case of born aliens, did you say? Why, born aliens have 
been converted in the past by crowds, and the process is still going 
on. 


“In my own opinion, this statement not only applies to aboriginal 
tribes, to outlying nations, and to almost all our conquerors before the 
Mohammedan conquest, but also to all those castes who find a special 
origin in the Puranas. I hold that they have been aliens thus adopted.— 


“Ceremonies of expiation are no doubt suitable in the case of 
willing converts returning to their Mother-Church, as it were; but on 
those who were alienated by conquest - as in Kashmir and Nepal - or 
on strangers wishing to join us, no penance should be imposed.” 


“But of what caste would these people be, Swamiji?” I ventured 
to ask. “They must have some, or they can never be assimilated into 
the great body of Hindus. Where shall we look for their rightful 
place?” 


“Returning converts,” said the Swami quietly, “will gain their 
own castes, of course. And new people will make theirs. You will 
remember,” he added, “that this has already been done in the case of 
Vaishnavism. Converts from different castes and aliens were all able 
to combine under that flag and form a caste by themselves,-and a very 
respectful one too. From Ramanuja down to Chaitanya of Bengal, all 
great Vaishnava teachers have done the same.” 


“And where should these new people expect to marry?” I asked. 


“Amongst themselves as they do now,” said the Swami quietly. 


“Then as to names,” I enquired, “I suppose aliens and perverts 
who have adopted non-Hindu names should be named newly. Would 
you give them caste-names, or what?” 


“Certainly,” said the Swami, thoughtfully, “there is a great deal in 
a name” and on this question he would say no more. 


“But my next enquiry drew blood. ‘Would you leave these 
newcomers, Swamiji, to choose their own forms of religious belief 
out of many visaged Hinduism, or would chalk out a religion for 
them?’ 


“Can you ask that?” he said. “They will choose for themselves. 
For unless a man chooses for himself, the very spirit of Hinduism is 
destroyed. The essence of our Faith consists simply in this freedom of 
the Ishta.”— 

Vivekananda paid a second visit to the West from June 1899 to 
December 1900. During his stay in California in February-May 1900, he 
received a gift of 160 acres from one of his American admirers. The 
society which he had founded during his first visit for the propagation of 
Vedanta, had now a home in America. It was named the Shanti Ashram. 
This is not the place to tell the story of how the precedent set by 


Vivekananda was followed in years to come by many other Hindu 
missionaries. It should suffice to say that today no country in the West is 
without Hindu presence in some form or the other. Seekers in the West 
have become increasingly aware of the major schools of Sanatana Dharma 
- Yoga and Vedanta, Buddhism and Jainism, Shaivism and Vaishnavism, 
Shaktism and Tantra. 


The impact of Vivekananda in his own country was far more 
momentous. He had taken over from where Bankim Chandra had left. 
Among the writers and thinkers of modern India, Bankim Chandra had 
fascinated him the most. During his lecture tour in East Bengal in 1901 he 
is reported to have advised Bengal’s young men to “read Bankim, and 
Bankim, and Bankim again.” Small wonder that Bankim’s AnandamaTha 
inspired revolutionary organisations fighting for India’s freedom and his 
Vande MAtaram became the national song par excellence when the 
awakening brought about by Vivekananda burst forth in a political 
movement soon after his death in 1902. 


This was the Swadeshi Movement led by Sri Aurobindo. It was 
renascent India’s first experiment in mass mobilization. Powerful mantras 
such as svadeshi and svarAjya, first invoked by Maharshi Dayananda, 
came to the fore and fired the people’s imagination. The struggle against 
Western imperialism in all its forms including Christianity became linked 
with the earlier struggle against Islamic imperialism. Maharana Pratap, 
Shivaji, Guru Govind Singh and Banda Bairagi resumed their full stature 
as national heroes after having suffered an eclipse in the national memory. 


Sri Krishna gave a message to Sri Aurobindo while the latter was 
incarcerated in the Alipore Jail. The Great Teacher of the Gita said, 
“Something has been shown to you in this year of seclusion, something 
about which you had your doubts and it is the truth of the Hindu religion. 
It is this religion that I am raising up before the world, it is this that I have 



perfected and developed through the Rishis, saints and Avatars, and is now 
going forth to do my work among the nations. I am raising up this nation 
to send forth my word. This is the Sanatan Dharma, this is the eternal 
religion which you did not really know before, but which I have now 
revealed to you... When you go forth, speak to your nation always this 
word, that it is for the Sanatan Dharma that they arise. It is for the world 
and not for themselves they arise. I am giving them freedom for the service 
of the world. When therefore it is said that India shall rise, it is the Sanatan 
Dharma that shall rise. When it is said that India shall be great, it is the 
Sanatan Dharma that shall be great. When it is said that India shall expand 
and extend herself, it is the Sanatan Dharma that shall expand and extend 
itself over the world. It is for the Dharma and by the Dharma that India 
exists. To magnify the religion means to magnify the country.”— 


The speech which Sri Aurobindo delivered at Uttarpara in 1909, soon 
after his acquittal in the Alipore Conspiracy Case, ended with the 
following words: “I say no longer that nationalism is a creed, a religion, a 
faith; I say that it is Sanatan Dharma which for us is nationalism. This 
Hindu nation was born with the Sanatan Dharma, with it is moves, and 
with it grows. When the Sanatan Dharma declines, then the nation 
declines, and if the Sanatan Dharma were capable of perishing, with the 
Sanatan Dharma it would perish. The Sanatan Dharma, that is 
nationalism.”— 


The Brahmo Samaj which had been fascinated by Christianity could 
not remain unaffected. Rabindranath Tagore wrote his novel, Gora, in 
1910. The following dialogue between Suchitra, the heroine, and Gora, the 
hero, showed the new trend that had started emerging in Brahmoism: 

She put aside her shyness and said with simple modesty, “I have 
never before thought about my country so greatly and so truly. But 
one question I will ask: What is the relation between country and 
religion? Does not religion transcend country?” 


He replied, “That which transcends country, which is greater than 
country, can only reveal itself through one’s country. God has 
manifested his one eternal nature in just such a variety of forms... I 
can assure you that through the open sky of India you will be able to 
see the sun therefore there is no need to cross the ocean and sit at the 
window of a Christian church.” 


“You mean to say that for India there is a special path leading to 
God? What is this speciality?” asked Suchitra. 


“The speciality is this,” replied Gora, “it is recognised that the 
Supreme Being who is without definition is manifest within limits - 
the endless current of minute and protracted, subtle and gross, is of 
Him. He is at one and the same time with endless attributes and 
without attributes; of infinite forms and formless.. In other countries 
they have tried to confine God with some one definition. In India no 
doubt there have also been attempts to realise God in one or other of 
his special aspects, but these have never been looked upon as final, 
nor any of them conceived to be the only one. No Indian devotee has 
ever failed to acknowledge that God in His infinity transcends the 
particular aspect which may be true for the worshipper personally.”— 


Later on in this novel Rabindranath rejects Christianity in more 
clear terms: 


Suchitra had been listening with her head bowed, but now she 
lifted her eyes and asked, “Then what do you tell me to do?” 


“I have nothing more to say,” answered Gora, “only this much I 
would add. You must understand that the Hindu religion takes in its 
lap, like a mother, people of different ideas and opinions, in other 
words, the Hindu religion looks upon man as man and does not count 
him as belonging to a particular party. It honours not only the wise 
but the foolish also and it shows respect not merely to one form of 
wisdom but to wisdom in all its aspects. Christians do not want to 
acknowledge diversity; they say that on one side is Christian religion 
and on the other eternal destruction, and between these two there is 
no middle path. And because we have studied under these Christians 
we have become ashamed of the variety that is there in Hinduism. We 
fail to see that through this diversity Hinduism is coming to realise 
the oneness of all. Unless we can free ourselves from this whirlpool 
of Christian teaching we shall not become fit for the glorious truths of 
Hindu religion.”— 

A new spirit was abroad. The English educated intelligentsia which 
had turned away from Hinduism, particularly in Bengal, was acquiring 
respect for it at a deeper level. The missionary machine had to change gear 
and turn towards the tribal areas. 


It is an altogether different story that the Ramakrishna Mission which 
Swami Vivekananda had founded for the defence and spread of Hinduism, 
was taken over by the disciples of Keshub Chunder Sen. It was not long 
before an authoritative biography of Sri Ramakrishna depicted him not as 
a giant Hindu saint but as a unique sAdhaka who had met and absorbed 
into himself both Jesus and Muhammad! The next inevitable step was to 
present Sri Ramakrishna as a synthesiser of Hinduism, Islam, and 
Christianity. Finally, the Mission was hailing Sri Ramakrishna as the 
founder of a new religion - Ramakrishnaism - which was “far superior” to 
Hinduism. Sri Ramakrishna, according to the Mission mystique, was the 
“first saint” (or prophet, if you please) in human history who had 
“demonstrated practically” that Hinduism and Christianity and Islam were 
only different paths for reaching the same spiritual goal! 


It is useless to tell the salesmen of Ramakrishnaism that this country 
has known thousands of saints like Sri Ramakrishna, that he would have 
remained unknown like most of them if Vivekananda had not made him 
famous, and that Vivekananda who was his dearest disciple had viewed 
Islam and Christianity not as religions but as doctrines of the sword. The 
Mission has become a world-wide network, and a wealthy institution 
patronized by the high and the mighty, not only in India but also abroad. 
And the Mission knows that Hindus can always be taken for granted. The 
Mission is neither the first nor the last to fatten with the help of Hindu 
society and then render service to the enemies of that society. The story 
will be repeated till Hindu society learns how to deal with turn-coats and 
traitors. 

Footnotes: 

- Quoted in R.C. Majumdar (ed.). The History and Culture of the 
Indian People, Volume X: British Paramountcy And Indian 
Renaissance, Part II, 2nd edition, Bombay, 1981, p. 36. 

- Quoted in Ibid., p. 155. 

- Quoted in Sisir Kumar Das, op. cit., p. 50. 

- Quoted in Indian Church History Review, December 1988, p. 

90. 

- Quoted in Indian Church History Review, December 1973, p. 
187. 

- Louis Rousslet, India and its Native Princes, published in 1876, 
cited by Marie Louis Burke, Swami Vivekananda In America, 
Calcutta, 1958, p.145. 

- Richard Temple, Oriental Experience, London, 1883, p. 142. 

^Ibid., pp. 142,143. 


- Sisir Kumar Das, op.cit., 52. 

— Quoted in Sisir Kumar Das, op. cit., pp. 117-118. 

— The Gospel of Sri Ramakrishna, Volume 1, Madras, 1985, p. 
138. 

— Quoted by M.M. Thomas, The Acknowledged Christ of Indian 
Renaissance, Second Edition, Madras 1976, p. 125. 

— The Complete Works ofSwami Vivekananda, Calcutta, 1985, 
Volume VI, p. 85. 

— Ibid., Volume I, p. 11. 

— Ibid., Volume VI, pp. 98-99. 

^ Ibid., Volume VII, pp. 370-71. 

— Ibid., Volume IV, pp. 32-33. 

^Ibid.,^. 145. 

— Ibid., Volume IV, pp. 25-26. 

— Ibid., p. 31. 

^Ibid.,^. 152. 

— Ibid., pp. 151-52. 

^Ibid., pp. 150-151. 

— Ibid., Volume VIII, pp. 114-115. 

— Ibid., Volume VII, pp. 71-71. 

— Ibid., Volume V, p. 503. 


— Ibid., Volume VII, pp. 361-361. 

— Ibid., p. 347. He was referring to the doings of a mob of 
Christian monks led by St. Cyril in 391 AD. 

— Ibid., Volume V, p. 532. “The European Pandit” refers to 
Galileo on whom Mother Teresa frowns in our own times. 

— Ibid., p. 533. The reference is to the working class movement 
Europe. 

— Ibid., Volume III, p. 474. The reference to Moslems found in 
The Chicago Daily Tribune has been omitted in this edition of The 
Collected Works. That is how the Ramakrishna Mission has 
“honoured” its founder! 

— Ibid., volume VI, pp. 390-91. 

— Ibid., Volume VI, p. 132. 

— Ibid., Volume III, p. 32. 

— Ibid., p. 333. 

— Ibid., Volume V, p. 125. 

— Ibid., Volume HI, pp. I96-I97. 

— Ibid., p. 218. “The reformer’s creed” refers to the Brahmo 
Samaj and allied movements which had swallowed Christians 
polemics against Hinduism and tried to “purge” Hinduism of its 
“evils”. 

— Ibid., Volume V, p. 214. 

^Ibid.,^.2\5. 

— Ibid., Volume VI, p. 120. 


— Ibid., p. 121. 

— Ibid., Volume V, p. 190. 

^Ibid.,p. 191. 

— Ibid., p. 91. 

— Ibid., Volume III, pp. 210-211. The gentleman was P. C. 
Mozumdar, a Brahmo leader who had also gone to the Parliament of 
Religions in Chicago, U.S.A. 

— Sisir Kumakr Das, op.cit., p. 141. 

— The Complete Works, Volume I, p. 20. 

— Quoted in Swami Jyotirmayananda, Vivekananda, His Gospel 
of Man-Making, Second edition, Madras 1988, p. 474. 

— Ibid., p. 486. Emphasis added. 

— Ibid., volume IV, pp. 344-345. Emphasis added. Mother Teresa 
paints the same negative picture of India to her Western audiences. 
Only her language is less picturesque due to changed circumstances. 

— Ibid., p. 345. 

— Ibid., Volume V, p. 60. 

— Ibid., p. 86. 

— Quoted in Swami Jyotirmayananda, op. cit., p. 568. 

— Quoted in Ibid., pp. 591-592. 

— The Puranas mention a number of castes which arose after the 
descendants of PArasikas (Persians), Yavanas (Greeks), Sakas 


(Scythians), KushANas and Hunas, etc., were integrated into Hindu 
society. 

— Quoted in Ibid., pp. 587-88. 

— Keshavmurthi, Sri Aurobindo: The Hope of Man, Pondicherry, 
1969,pp.165-166. 

^Ibid., pp. 167-68. 

— Rabindranath Tagore, Gora, translated into English, Calcutta, 
1961 impression, p. 103. 

— Ibid., p. 296. Emphasis added. 


14 

Encounter with Mahatma Gandhi 


The next dialogue between Hinduism and Christianity was the longest 
in duration and the richest in content. The spokesman for Hinduism was 
Mahatma Gandhi. Christianity was represented by many men and women 
from India and abroad. Some of them occupied high positions in the 
worldwide Christian mission. 


The dialogue started in 1893 when Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi 
reached South Africa as a barrister and discovered that the Christians who 
befriended him were looking forward to his conversion. It ended on 
December 24, 1947 when Mahatma Gandhi, the father figure in 
independent India, offered Christmas greetings to Christians in India and 
abroad, wishing them well and hoping that they “will pursue the path of 
sacrifice and martyrdom shown by Jesus Christ.” At the same time he 
asked his Christian countrymen to shed fears about their future in 
independent India. 


Gandhiji was brought up in an atmosphere of religious tolerance. He 
had accompanied his mother and father to the Vaishnava Haveli and the 
temples of Shiva and Rama. Everywhere they worshipped with equal 
reverence. Jain monks “would pay frequent visits to my father” and talk 
with him “on subjects religious and mundane.” So did Muslim and Parsi 
friends of his father who “listened to them with respect, and often with 
interest”- 


Small wonder that when he saw the behaviour of Christian 
missionaries for the first time, he “developed a sort of dislike” for 


Christianity. He was a school student at Rajkot. “In those days,” he writes, 
“Christian missionaries used to stand in a comer near the high school and 
hold forth, pouring abuse on Hindus and their gods. I could not endure 
this. I must have stood there to hear them once only, but that was enough 
to dissuade me from repeating the experience.” His dislike of Christianity 
deepened when he heard about the doings of a “well-known Hindu” 
convert. “It was the talk of the town,” he continues, “that, when he was 
baptised, he had to eat beef and drink liquor, that he also had to change his 
clothes and that thenceforward he began to go about in European costume 
including a hat. These things got on my nerves. Surely, thought I, a 
religion that compelled one to eat beef and drink liquor and change one’s 
own clothes did not deserve the name. I also heard the news that the new 
convert had already begun abusing the religion of his ancestors, their 
customs and their country. All these things created in me a dislike for 
Christianity.”- 


By the time Gandhiji read the Bible for the first time, he had developed 
an eager and reflective interest in religion. Towards the end of his second 
year in England, he read Sir Edwin Arnold’s The Song Celestial and The 
Light of Asia. The first work is the famous English translation of the Gita. 
The second narrates the life of the Buddha. The Gita “stmck me as one of 
priceless worth.” As regards the life of the Buddha, “once I had begun it I 
could not leave off.” Around the same time, he read Madame Blavatsky’s 
The Key to Theosophy which “disabused me of the notion fostered by 
missionaries that Hinduism was rife with superstition.” So he welcomed a 
copy of the Bible sold to him by a Christian friend who was a vegetarian 
and who did not drink. “I began reading it,” writes Gandhiji, “but I could 
not possibly read through the Old Testament. I read the book of Genesis, 
and the chapters that followed invariably sent me to sleep. But just for the 
sake of being able to say that I had read it, I plodded through the other 
books with much difficulty and without the least interest or understanding. 
I disliked reading the book of Numbers.”- 


The New Testament, however, “produced a different impression, 
especially the Sermon on the Mount which went straight to my heart.” 
This first impression proved to be his last also. In years to come, he 
continued to identify “true Christianity” with the Sermon on the Mount 
and exclude everything else in Christian theology to the chagrin of 
Christian missionaries who could neither disown the Sermon nor stop at it. 
“My young mind,” continues Gandhiji, “tried to unify the teaching of the 
Gita, The Light of Asia and the Sermon on the Mount. That renunciation 
was the highest form of religion appealed to me greatly.”- 


Gandhiji came in contact with some believing Christians during his 
stay in South Africa and had an opportunity to reflect on Christian 
theology. Mr. A. W. Baker, the attorney of Gandhiji’s client in Pretoria 
“was a staunch lay preacher” and “one of the Directors of the South Africa 
General Mission.” He showed interest in the religion of Gandhiji who 
confessed that though he was a Hindu, he did not “know much of 
Hinduism” and “knew less of other religions.” Mr. Baker invited Gandhiji 
to the daily meetings of his missionary coworkers and promised to give 
him “some religious books to read.”- Gandhiji was somewhat intrigued 
and asked himself, “What... can be the meaning of Mr. Baker’s interest in 
me? What shall I gain from his religious coworkers? How far should I 
undertake the study of Christianity? How was I to obtain literature about 
Hinduism? And how was I to understand Christianity in its proper 
perspective without thoroughly knowing my own religion?” He came to 
the conclusion that “I should make a dispassionate study of all that came to 
me, and deal with Baker’s group as God might guide me” and that “I 
should not think of embracing another religion before I had fully 
understood my own.”- 


He started attending the meetings where the “prayers did not last for 
more than five minutes.” He was introduced to Mr. Baker’s “coworkers” 
one of whom was Mr. Coates who “loaded me with books, as it were.” The 
books were a mix of the stale and the stimulating. At the end, “the 


arguments in proof of Jesus being the only incarnation of God and the 
Mediator between God and man left me unmoved.” But Mr. Coates “was 
not the man to accept defeat.” One day, “He saw, round my neck, the 
Vaishnava necklace of Tulasi-beads” and said, “come, let me break the 
necklace.” Gandhiji told him, “No, you will not. It is a sacred gift from my 
mother.”- Mr. Coates “could not appreciate my argument, as he had no 
regard for my religion.” He was convinced that “salvation was impossible 
for me unless I accepted Christianity which represented the truth, and that 
my sins would not be washed away except by intercession of Jesus, and 
that all good works were useless. 


Another Christian group which Gandhiji met at this time was that of 
the Plymouth Brethren who proclaimed that “as we believe in the 
atonement of Jesus, our own sins do not bind us.”- One of the Brothers 
“proved as good as his word.” He “committed transgressions” and 
remained “undisturbed by the thought of them.” Gandhiji was relieved to 
know that “all Christians did not believe in such a theory of atonement” 
and assured Mr. Coates that “the distorted belief of a Plymouth Brother 
could not prejudice me against Christianity.”— 


By now Mr. Baker “was getting anxious about my future.”— He took 
Gandhiji to the Wellington Convention of Protestant Christians. Gandhiji’s 
colour created some problems for him in the hotel and the dining room but 
Mr. Baker “stood by the guests of a hotel.” The Convention lasted for three 
days and Gandhiji “appreciated the devoutness of those who attended it.” 
But he “saw no reason for changing my belief in my religion.” He found it 
impossible “to believe that I could go to heaven or attain salvation only by 
becoming a Christian.” He made a frank confession of his doubts to his 
Christian friends who “were shocked.”— 


The Convention helped Gandhiji to make up his mind about 
Christianity. He adhered to these views for the rest of his life. “My 
difficulties,” he writes, “lay deeper. It was more than I could believe that 
Jesus was the only incarnate son of God, and that only he who believed in 
him would have everlasting life. If God could have sons, all of us were his 
sons. If Jesus was like God or God Himself, their all men were like God 
and could be God Himself. My reason was not ready to believe literally 
that Jesus by his death and by his blood redeemed the sins of the world. 
Metaphorically there might be some truth in it. Again, according to 
Christianity only human beings had souls, and not other living beings, for 
whom death meant complete extinction, while I held a contrary view. I 
could accept Jesus as a martyr, as an embodiment of sacrifice and a divine 
teacher, but not as the most perfect man ever born. His death on the cross 
was a great example to the world, but that there was anything like a 
mysterious or miraculous virtue, in it my heart could not accept. The pious 
lives of Christians did not give me anything that the lives of men of other 
faiths had failed to give. I had seen in other lives just the same reformation 
that I had heard of among the Christians. Philosophically there was 
nothing extraordinary in Christian principles. From the point of view of 
sacrifice, it seemed that the Hindus greatly surpassed Christians. It was 
impossible for me to regard Christianity as a perfect religion or the 
greatest of all religions.”— 


At the same time, Gandhiji felt greatly dissatisfied with Hinduism as 
he saw it. He could not understand how “untouchability could be a part of 
Hinduism.” As not only his Christian but also Muslim friends were trying 
to convert him, he wanted to know more about Hinduism. He presented his 
problem to Raychandbhai, his mentor in India, and “corresponded with 
other religious authorities in India.”— Raychandbhai assured him that “no 
other religion has the subtle and profound thought of Hinduism, its vision 
of the soul, or its charity.” Thus Gandhiji “took a path which my Christian 
friends had not intended for me.”— 


He continued to read books written by Christians and also to 
correspond with Christian friends in England. He found that some 
exponents of Christianity did not adhere to Christian theology and took a 
broader and deeper view of Jesus and his message. He started moving 
away from Christianity as preached by the missionaries. The missionaries, 
however, refused to give him up as a bad job and when he moved to 
Durban, “Mr. Spencer Walton, the head of the South Africa General 
Mission, found me out”— 


The approach this time was softer. Mr. Walton never asked Gandhiji to 
embrace Christianity. He became Gandhiji’s friend and introduced him to 
Mrs. Walton. Gandhiji liked them both for their “humility, perseverance 
and devotion to work.”— At the suggestion of some other Christian 
friends, Gandhiji started attending the Wesleyan Church every Sunday. But 
he found the sermons “uninspiring” and the congregation “worldly-minded 
people who went to church for recreation and in conformity to custom.”— 
On occasions, he fell into an “involuntary doze” and felt ashamed. He was 
relieved when he found that his neighbours in the Church “were in no 
better case.”— Finally he gave up attending the Church. 


Gandhiji had a standing invitation from a Christian family to join them 
for lunch every Sunday. “Once we began to compare,” he writes, “the life 
of Jesus with that of Buddha. ‘Look at Gautama’s compassion,’ said I. ‘It 
was not confined to mankind, it was extended to all living beings. Does not 
one’s heart overflow with love to think of the lamb joyously perched on his 
shoulders? One fails to notice this love for all living beings in the life of 
Jesus.’ The comparison pained the lady.” The contact came to an end soon 
after because Gandhiji tried to teach her son the superiority of vegetarian 
food over meat-eating. The lady felt dismayed and told Gandhiji that “my 
boy is none the better for your company.” He took the hint and stopped the 
Visits.— 


Gandhiji had become a famous man by the time he left South Africa 
for good in 1915 and started working in India. He had not yet emerged as 
the Mahatma, nor risen to the supreme command of the national 
movement for freedom from British rule. Christian missionaries regarded 
him as a friend because of his proclaimed admiration for Jesus. Early in 
1916 he was invited to address a Missionary Conference at Madras on the 
subject of Swadeshi. After having defined Swadeshi as “that spirit in us 
which restricts us to the use and service of our immediate surroundings to 
the exclusion of the more remote”, he said that “in order to satisfy the 
requirements of the definition, I must restrict myself to my ancestral 
religion.”— He advised the missionaries to “serve the spirit of Christianity 
better, by dropping the goal of proselytising but continuing their 
philanthropic work.” He told them that Christ’s message, “Go Ye Unto All 
the World”, had been “narrowly interpreted” and that “in every case, a 
conversion leaves a sore behind it.” At the same time he held up Hinduism 
as the embodiment of the Swadeshi spirit. That was the secret, he said, of 
its being the most tolerant religion.— 


Christian missionaries had been propagating that the Reform 
Movement in Hinduism as well as Gandhiji’s doctrine of Satyagraha were 
influenced by the principles of Christianity. The proposition was presented 
to Gandhiji by Rev. Wells Branch in the latter’s letter dated May 9, 1919. 
He wrote back on May 12 that “I do not think either has anything to do 
with Christian teaching.” He held “modern civilisation and modern 
education” as responsible for the Reform Movement. As to satyagraha, he 
said that “it is an extended application of the ancient teaching.”— In the 
same letter he rejected the “exclusive divinity of Jesus” while praising the 
Sermon on the Mount. Rev. Branch had come to believe that there were 
many “secret followers of Jesus” in India who were not coming out in the 
open because they feared persecution from Hindu society. Gandhiji 
replied, “I have moved among thousands upon thousands of Indians but I 
have not found any secret followers of Jesus.”— 


Thus by the time M. K. Gandhi emerged as Mahatma Gandhi and took 
command of the national movement for freedom in 1920, he had studied 
and reflected upon all aspects of Christianity and formed his views on 
them. He had watched the working of Christian missions from close 
quarters and understood their role vis-a-vis Hindu religion and culture. In 
years to come he would identify himself as a sanAtanI Hindu fully 
satisfied with his ancestral faith. He would explain and elaborate his views 
on Christianity and Christian missions and defend the principles and 
practices of Hinduism which the missionaries held in contempt. But 
because he admired Jesus as a great teacher, he would continue to arouse 
fond hopes in Christian hearts. 

Meanwhile, he had changed from a loyal citizen of the British Empire to 
its uncompromising opponent. The weapon he forged for fighting the 
British Raj in India was nonviolent non-cooperation. The struggle for 
freedom was combined with a programme for socioeconomic 
reconstruction in which the abolition of untouchability was a major plank. 
His campaigns involved him in conflict not only with the British 
Government of India but also with Hindu orthodoxy. 


While he was in Sabarmati Jail he was interviewed by a representative 
of The Manchester Guardian some time before March 18, 1922. The 
Hindu of Madras published the interview on August 15, 1922. The 
interviewer tried to pin him down by saying that non-cooperation was 
“contrary to Christ’s teaching.” Gandhiji replied, “Not being a Christian I 
am not bound to justify my action by Christian principles.”— 


While he was still in jail, the Young India of February 8, 1923 
published an interesting item which deserves to be reproduced in full: 


Rev. Dr. Macarish, elected head of the Presbyterian Church Synod 
which recently met at Orillia in Canada referred to the incidental 
commercial advantages of religious missions in the following words: 


“One cry in the country had long been markets, wider markets, and 
since the introduction of the Fordney Bill, that cry has been louder and 
more insistent than ever. If the farmers and manufacturers desire to create 
a market, they would do well to get in touch with foreign missions, and we 
are assured that it would not be long till they received their money back 
with liberal interest. 


“Although the missionary went to the foreign fields to win souls for 
Jesus, the results of his labours also meant the extension of commerce. 
Trade would follow the banner of the Cross, as readily as it would the 
Union jack, the Stars and Stripes, or any of the other national emblems, 
and usually it cost a good deal less. 


“It cost British Government £225,000,000 to make the Union jack float 
over Pretoria; yet it is doubtful if the South African war did as much to 
promote trade, as missions there had previously done. In the past, the 
missionaries had been the best advertisers of heathen countries. Dr. John 
G. Paton did more to advertise the South Sea Islands than the sandal-wood 
traders ever did, and who ever did more to advertise Africa than 
Livingston? 


“Fifty years ago, it was said that when a missionary had been abroad 
for twenty years, he was worth £50,000 to British commerce; and it was 
probably not extravagant to say that one of our missionaries in India or 
China to-day was worth a similar sum to any great industrial centre in this 
country.” 



Gandhiji had launched his programme for abolition of untouchability 
soon after he came out of jail. He had made it clear to all concerned that 
untouchability was a Hindu problem and that Hindus alone should 
participate in the movement for its abolition. But Christian missions tried 
to jump into the fray. He received a letter from Mr. George Joseph of 
Travancore asking whether he could join the satyagraha at Vykom which 
was going on for securing to the Harijans the right to travel on certain 
roads and enter Hindu temples for worship. Gandhiji advised him on April 
6, 1924 to “let the Hindus do the work” and referred him to the Nagpur 
resolution of the Congress which “calls upon the Hindu members to 
remove the curse of untouchability.” At the same time he drew Mr. 
Joseph’s attention to the untouchability practised by the Syrian 
Christians.— He also told the Hindus not to seek the support of non- 
Hindus in the Vykom satyagraha. “If you are fighting as an enlightened 
against the bigoted Hindu,” he wrote to K. Madhavan Nair on May 6, 
1924, “it is your bounden duty not only not to seek but respectfully to 
reject all support from non-Hindus.”— He was aware that Christian 
missionaries were not above exploiting the situation to the disadvantage of 
Hinduism. 


A “retired Indian police officer” in England wrote in The Manchester 
Guardian that Christian missionaries had done commendable work for the 
uplift of Harijans. Gandhiji thought that the article deserved his comment. 
He wrote a Note under the heading ‘Ignorance’ in the Young India of July 
13, 1924. “The writer brings up for commendation,” he said, “the Christian 
work among untouchables; I must not enter into the merits of Christian 
work in India. The indirect influence of Christianity has been to quicken 
Hinduism into life. The cultured Hindu society has admitted its grievous 
sin against the untouchables. But the effect of Christianity upon India in 
general must be judged by the life lived in our midst by the average 
Christian and its effect upon us. I am sorry to have to record my opinion 
that it has been disastrous. It pains me to have to say that the Christian 
missionaries as a body, with honourable exceptions, have actively 
supported a system which has impoverished, enervated and demoralised a 


people considered to be among the gentlest and the most civilized on 
earth 


Gandhiji had the leisure to read and look through a large number of 
books, mostly on religion, while he was in Sabarmati jail. Some of these 
books had been sent to him by Christians in India and abroad, who wanted 
to enlighten him about Christianity. Commenting on these books in the 
Young India of September 4, 1924, he wrote, “I must confess that whilst I 
recognized their kind motive, I could not appreciate the majority of books 
they sent. I wish I could say something of their gifts that would please 
them. But that would not be fair or truthful if I could not mean it. The 
orthodox books on Christianity do not give me any satisfaction. My regard 
for the life of Jesus is indeed very great... But I do not accept the orthodox 
teaching that Jesus was or is God incarnate in the accepted sense or that he 
was, or is the only son of God. I do not believe in the doctrine of 
appropriation of another’s merit... I do not take the words ‘Son’ and 
‘Father’ and ‘the Holy Ghost’ literally... Nor do I consider every word in 
the New Testament as God’s own word. Between the Old and the New 
there is a fundamental difference. Whilst the Old contains some very deep 
truths, I am unable to pay it the same honours I pay the New Testament. I 
regard the latter as an extension of the Old and in some matters rejection of 
the Old. Nor do I regard the New as the last word of God... I would 
therefore respectfully urge my Christian friends and well-wishers to take 
me as I am. I respect and appreciate their wish that I should think and be as 
they are even as I respect and appreciate a similar wish on the part of my 
Mussalman friends. I regard both the religions as equally true with my 
own. But my own gives me full satisfaction. It contains all that I need for 
my growth. It teaches me to pray not that others may believe as I believe 
but that they may grow to their full height in their own religion.”— He 
added, “That which I would not have missed was the Mahabharata and the 
Upanishads, the Ramayana and the BhagavataT— 


Mahadev Desai has recorded in his Diary dated November 3, 1924 that 
a Swiss missionary met Gandhiji and apologised for his broken English. 
Gandhiji put him at ease by telling him that English was a foreign tongue 
for him also. The missionary told him, “Every one knows you all over 
Europe. In Germany and Switzerland, you are quite a name because you 
are an excellent Christian.” Gandhiji laughed and said, “But I am not a 
Christian.” The missionary persisted, “But you follow Christian principles 
in life faithfully.” Gandhiji pointed out, “Yes, that is true. But those 
principles are found in my religion as well.” The missionary “was a little 
put out” but insisted, “But in Christianity specially so.” Gandhiji observed, 
“That is doubtful. 1 think all religions enjoin certain general 
commandments - ‘speak the truth’, ‘harm nobody’, etc. But personally my 
own religion gives me peace; if 1 got it from any other 1 would certainly 
embrace that religion.” The missionary “did not seem to appreciate this 
remark”, and left.— 


The Navajivan dated December 7, 1924 recorded an interview which 
Gandhiji gave to two American professors. One of them asked, “Do you 
believe in Christ as the Saviour of humanity through His vicarious 
suffering?” Gandhiji replied, “1 am not much impressed with the concept.” 
The professor enquired, “Are you shocked?” Gandhiji said, “No, not 
shocked either... I do not believe at all that one individual can wash off the 
sins of some other and grant him redemption. It is a psychological fact that 
one individual may feel pained at the sins and sorrows of another and the 
consciousness that the former is grieved may lead to the moral uplift of the 
latter. But I cannot accept the idea that one man die for the sake of the sins 
of millions and save them.”— 


The missionary machine, however, kept grinding in the same old 
grooves. Its campaign among the Harijans kept on maligning Hinduism. 
Gandhiji was pained. “Eots of people,” he said at the Antyaja Conference 
on January 16, 1925, “will come and tell you that your Hindu religion is 
all wrong, as you are not allowed to go to school or enter the temple. To 


such people you should say, ‘We shall settle accounts with our Hindu 
brothers ; you may not come between us as you may not intervene in 
quarrel between father and son or among relatives.’ And you should 
remain steadfast to your religion... Many Christian friends ask me to turn 
Christian. I tell them there is nothing wrong with my religion. Why should 
I give it up? I have joined the Antyajas and if for that reason Hindus 
persecute me, do I cease to be a Hindu? Hinduism is meant for me and my 
soui.”— 


Mahadev Desai records in his Diary dated May 30, 1925 that when 
Gandhiji was in Darjeeling he was invited by Miss Roland, a Christian 
missionary, to address an audience at the “Bengali teaching school” for 
missionaries. About “a hundred or hundred and fifty European men and 
women were present.”— He said, “Conversion to a religion is like passing 
one’s Entrance Examination, standing at the gateway to Heaven. Whether 
you accept one religion or another is of no consequence. All that God 
wants us to say is whether what we profess with our lips, we but believe in 
our hearts. There are thousands of men and women in India who do not 
know Jesus or his amazing sacrifice, but are far more God-fearing than 
many a Christian who knows the Bible and feels he follows the 
decalouge.” He had no use for nominal Christians. “In my humble 
opinion,” he continued, “a man is not ‘converted’ the moment he 
renounces his own faith and embraces another. I can quote a number of 
examples of Indians and Zulus who have turned Christians, but have not 
the faintest idea of the law of love or the sacrifice of Jesus or his 
message.”— 


He acknowledged “the debt we owe to missionaries for service to 
vernacular languages and literatures-Gujarati, Marathi and Bengali.” He 
mentioned Pope and Taylor for what they did for Tamil and Gujarati. “But 
in this,” he said, “you have touched but a fringe. You will serve India best 
when you pick up the poorest of Indians and that only when you identify 
yourselves with them.”— He regretted what Bishop Heber had said about 


these poor people - Where every prospect pleases, and man alone is vile. 
“He was wrong. Let God forgive him,” Gandhiji added.— 


During the same visit to Bengal, Gandhiji was invited to speak before a 
meeting of missionaries held at the Y.M.C.A. in Calcutta on June 28,1925. 
He started by telling them of his association with Christians since his 
student days in London. “In South Africa,” he said, “where I found myself 
in the midst of inhospitable surroundings, I was able to make hundreds of 
Christian friends.” He made them laugh when he told them, “There was 
even a time in my life when a very sincere friend of mine, a great and good 
Quaker, had designs on me. He thought that I was too good not to become 
a Christian. I was sorry to have disappointed him. One missionary friend 
of mine in South Africa still writes to me and asks me, ‘How is it with 
you?’ I have always told this friend that so far as know, it is well with 


Next, he told them about his meeting with Kali Charan Banerjee. “In 
answer to promises made,” he said, “to one of these Christian friends of 
mine, I thought it my duty to see one of the biggest of Indian Christians, as 
I was told he was, - the late Kali Charan Banerjee. I went over to him - I 
am telling you of the deep search that I have undergone in order that I 
might leave no stone unturned to find out the true path -1 went to him with 
an absolutely open mind and in a receptive mood, and I met him also 
under circumstances which were most affecting. I found that there was 
much in common between Mr. Banerjee and myself. His simplicity, his 
humility, his courage, his truthfulness, all these things I have all along 
admired. He met me when his wife was on her death-bed. You cannot 
imagine a more impressive scene, a more ennobling circumstance. I told 
Mr. Banerjee, ‘I have come to you as a seeker’, - this was in 1901 -‘I have 
come to you in fulfilment of a sacred promise I have made to some of my 
dearest Christian friends that I will leave no stone unturned to find out the 
true light.’ I told him that I had given my friends the assurance that no 
worldly gain would keep me away from the light, if I could but see it. 


Well, I am not going to engage you in giving a description of the little 
discussion that we had between us. It was very good, very noble. I came 
away, not sorry, not dejected, not disappointed, but I felt sad that even Mr. 
Banerjee could not convince me.” 


Passing on to his present position, he said, “Today my position is that 
though I admire much in Christianity, I am unable to identify myself with 
orthodox Christianity. I must tell you in all humility that Hinduism as I 
know it, entirely satisfies my. soul, fills my whole being and I find a solace 
in the Bhagavad Gita and Upanishads that I miss even in the Sermon on 
the Mount. Not that I do not prize the ideal presented therein, not that 
some of the precious teachings in the Sermon on the Mount have not left a 
deep impression upon me, but I must confess to you that when doubts 
haunt me, when disappointments stare me in the face, and when I see not 
one ray of light on the horizon I turn to the Bhagavad Gita, and find a 
verse to comfort me; and I immediately begin to smile in the midst of 
overwhelming sorrow. My life has been full of external tragedies and if 
they have not left any visible and indelible effect on me, I owe it to the 
teaching of the Bhagavad Gita.”— 


His love of Hinduism did not mean disrespect for other religions. “I 
must add,” he said, “that I did not stop at studying the Bible and the 
commentaries and other books on Christianity that my friends placed in 
my hands; but I said to myself, if I was to find my satisfaction through 
reasoning, I must study the scriptures of other religions also and make my 
choice. And I turned to the Koran. I tried to understand what I could of 
Judaism as distinguished from Christianity. I studied Zoroastrianism and I 
came to the conclusion that all religions were right, but every one of them 
imperfect - imperfect naturally and necessarily, - because they were 
interpreted with our poor intellects, sometimes with our poor hearts, and 
more often misinterpreted. In all religions, I found to my grief, that there 
were various and even contradictory interpretations of some texts.. .”— 


He chided the missionaries for misrepresenting Hinduism. “You, the 
missionaries,” he said, “come to India thinking that you come to a land of 
heathens, of idolaters, of men who do not know God. One of the greatest 
of Christian divines. Bishop Heber, wrote the two lines which have always 
left a sting with me: ‘Where every prospect pleases. And man alone is 
vile.’ I wish he had not written them. My own experience in my travels 
throughout India has been to the contrary. I have gone from one end of the 
country to the other, without any prejudice, in a relentless search after 
truth, and I am not able to say that here in this fair land, watered by the 
great Ganges, the Brahmaputra and the Jumna, man is vile. He is not vile. 
He is as much a seeker after truth as you and I are, possibly more so... I 
tell you there are many such huts belonging to the untouchables where you 
will certainly find God. They do not reason but they persist in their belief 
that God is. They depend upon God for His assistance and find it too. 
There are many stories told through the length and breadth of India about 
these noble untouchables. Vile as some of them may be, there are noblest 
specimens of humanity in their midst.”— 


And this nobility was not confined to the ‘untouchables’ of India. “No. 
I am here to tell you,” he continued, “that there are non-Brahmins, there 
are Brahmins who are as fine specimens of humanity as you will find in 
any place on the earth. There are Brahmins today in India who are 
embodiments of self-sacrifice, godliness, and humility. There are Brahmins 
who are devoting themselves body and soul to the service of untouchables, 
but with execration from orthodoxy. They do not mind it, because in 
serving pariahs they are serving God. I can quote chapter and verse from 
my experience. I place these facts before you in all humility for the simple 
reason that you may know this land better, the land to which you have 
come to serve. You are here to find out the distress of the people of India 
and remove it. But I hope you are here also in a receptive mood and, if 
there is anything that India has to give, you will not stop your ears, you 
will not close your eyes and steel your hearts, but open up your ears, eyes 
and, most of all, your hearts to receive all that may be good in the land. I 
give you my assurance that there is a great deal of good in India. Do not 
flatter yourselves with the belief that a mere recital of that celebrated verse 


in St. John makes a man a Christian. If I have read the Bible correctly, I 
know many men who have never heard the name of Jesus Christ or have 
even rejected the official interpretation of Christianity will, probably, if 
Jesus came in our midst today in the flesh, be owned by him more than 
many of us. I therefore ask you to approach the problem before you with 
open-heartedness, and humility.”— 


Gandhiji told the missionaries that they stood isolated from the people 
of India because they “come to India under the shadow, or, if you like, 
under the protection of a temporal power, and it creates an impassable 
bar.”— He said that he was not impressed by the “statistics that so many 
orphans have been reclaimed and brought to the Christian faith.” He asked 
them to identify themselves with the masses and find out what the masses 
need most. “You cannot,” he said, “present the hungry and famished 
masses with God. Their God is their food.”— 


A missionary asked him, “Do you definitely feel the presence of the 
living Christ within you?” Gandhiji replied, “If it is the historical Jesus, 
surnamed Christ, that the inquirer refers to, I must say I do not.: If it is an 
adjective signifying one of the names of God, then I must say I do feel the 
presence of God - call him Christ, call him Krishna, call him Rama. We 
have one thousand names of God, and if I did not feel the presence of God 
within me, I see so much of misery and disappointment every day that I 
would be a raving maniac and my destination would be the Hooghly.”— 


An Englishmen “defended Bishop Heber’s song on the ground that the 
song did not refer to Indians but to Christians” and that “they described 
themselves in their songs very often as the worst of sinners.” Gandhiji “put 
his defence out of court.” He quoted “those parts of the song which said 
that India, Africa and such other countries were inviting the Christians to 
spread their light in these lands, and that it was there that nature’s prospect 
pleased but only man was vile, because the heathen was worshipping 


wood and stone in his blindness.” At the end he asked, “Is it not strange, 
that a song written ages ago is still sung in Christian circles?”— 


On August 12, 1925 Gandhiji delivered another speech before the 
Y.M.C.A. at Calcutta. He started by giving an account of his association 
with Christianity and Christians. He mentioned Principal S. K. Rudra and 
C. F. Andrews as among his best friends. Coming to the duty of Indian 
Christians, he said, “In my humble opinion a Christian Young Indian owes 
a double duty - to those whose religion he has given up and to those whose 
religion he has adopted... The Indian Christian’s duty to the religion he 
has given up is to retain all the good that belongs to it and impart it to the 
new he has taken. Contrarily, he takes the best of the new religion and 
transmits it to those whom he has left or who have banished him. But that 
never happens in a majority of cases. With deep grief that has to be noted. 
And in Madras you go to different quarters altogether, but by no means a 
congenial surroundings. You will find there vice double-distilled and no 
gain on either side.”— 


Instead, the Indian Christians had invited a double tragedy. They did 
not mix with Indians, and Europeans would not mix with them. “I tried to 
talk,” he said, “as I kept walking on the Ellisbridge [in Ahmedabad] to 
young girls walking to their seminary. They did not even return my 
salaams. I attended a service also. You will be surprised to see that I was 
sitting in a corner hoping to exchange a word - without avail, not even a 
glance. Excuses there may be, but that should not be the case. You cut 
yourself away from your kith and kin.. .”— 


Another great mistake the converts to Christianity were making was to 
neglect their native languages and try to learn the English language alone. 
“They are passing through schools and colleges,” he said, “like so many 
pieces of a machine - but they don’t think, don’t originate, forget their 
mother tongue. They try to learn the English language, succeed in making 


a hash of it, and trying to think in a foreign tongue, become paralysed... 
There is something radically wrong in a system which has brought about 
such helplessness.” He commanded to them the example set by 
Madhusudan Datta who had “enriched his mother tongue” and Kali 
Charan Banerjee and S. K. Rudra who had retained their Indianness after 
becoming Christians. “If the Indian Christians,” he concluded, “want to 
serve their country, are to serve the religion they profess, it will be 
necessary to revise a great deal of what they are doing today.”— 


He was happy when the speakers who preceded him at a congregation 
of the Baptist Church on August 20, spoke in their mother tongue. “The 
man who discards his mother tongue,” he said, “gives up thereby his 
parents, his friends, his neighbours and his country as well. The man who 
is capable of snapping such ties of love becomes unfit for doing any good 
to humanity or to anybody whatever. And the man unfit to serve the world 
is unfit to know or serve God.”— 


He upheld the same spirit of Swadeshi in other spheres of life. “During 
my travels,” he continued, “I find a general belief that to turn a Christian is 
to turn European; to become self-willed, and give up self-restraint, use 
only foreign cloth, dress oneself in European style and start taking meat 
and brandy. But I think the fact is, if a person discards his country, his 
customs and his old connections and manners when he changes his 
religion, he becomes all the more unfit to gain a knowledge of God. Eor, a 
change of religion means really a conversion of the heart. When there is a 
real conversion, a man’s heart grows. But in this country one finds that 
conversion brings about deep disdain for one’s old religion and its 
followers, i.e., one’s old friends and relatives. The next change that takes 
place is that of dress and manners and behaviour. All that does great harm 
to the country. In my view your object in changing your religion should be 
to bring about the prosperity of your country.”— 


He told them that conversion should not mean license in conduct. He 
drew their attention to what the Bible teaches about one’s conduct towards 
one’s neighbours. “Christian friends tell me,” he said, “that when the 
change their faith, there remains no need for them to observe any restraint. 
They say, ‘You can do anything you like when you become a Christian.’ I 
respectfully say that this is a wrong notion. I shall give you an instance to 
prove my contention. There is a common belief that while some food is 
forbidden and some allowed in Hinduism, once you become a Christian, 
you get a license to eat anything you like and drink even liquor. Hence 
there are a lot of Christians who disregard their neighbour’s feelings and 
do what they like at the cost of hurting them. But I was told the other day 
that the Bible condemns such conduct.”— 


A student doing post-graduate studies in the U. S.A. wrote to Gandhiji 
asking for his “frank evaluation of the work of Christian missionaries in 
India.” He wanted to know if “Christianity has some contribution to make 
to the life of India” and if India could “do without Christian missionaries.” 
Gandhiji said, “In my opinion Christian missionaries have done good to us 
indirectly. Their direct contribution is probably more harmful than 
otherwise. I am against the modem methods of proselytising. Years’ 
experience of proselytising both in South Africa and India has convinced 
me that it has not raised the general moral tone of converts who have 
imbibed the superficialities of European civilization, and have missed the 
teaching of Jesus. I must be understood to refer to the general tendency 
and not to brilliant exceptions. The indirect contribution, on the other 
hand, of Christian missionary effort is great. It has stimulated Hindu and 
Mussalman religious research. It has forced us to put our house in order. 
The great educational and curative institutions of Christian missions I also 
count among indirect results, because they have been established, not for 
their own sakes, but as an aid to proselytizing.”— 


A Christian Indian domiciled in Ceylon (now Sri Lanka) but studying 
in the U.S.A. sent to Gandhiji a number of questions on behalf of students 


associated with the Y.M.C.A. One of the question was, “What is your 
attitude towards the teachings of Jesus Christ?” Gandhiji published his 
reply in the Young India of February 25, 1926: “They have an immense 
moral value for me, but I do not regard everything said in the Bible as the 
final word of God or exhaustive or even acceptable from the moral 
standpoint. I regard Jesus Christ as one of the greatest teachers of 
mankind, but I do not consider him to be the ‘only son of God’.”— 


An English translation of Gandhiji’s autobiography was being 
serialised in the Young India from December 3, 1925 onwards. When the 
account of his first encounter with Christianity appeared in the weekly, he 
received a letter from Rev. H. R. Scott, “at present stationed at Surat.” 
Gandhiji published the letter in the Young India of March 4, 1926. “I was 
the only missionary in Rajkot during those years (from 1883 to 1897),” 
wrote Rev. Scott, “and what you say about Christian missionaries in 
Rajkot standing at a corner near the High school and pouring abuse on 
Hindus and their gods fills me with painful wonder. I certainly never 
preached ‘at a corner near the High school’; my regular preaching station 
was under a banyan tree in the Pan Bazar; and I certainly never ‘poured 
abuse on Hindus and their gods.’ That would be strange way to win a 
hearing from Hindus. Then you say that a well-known Hindu was baptised 
at that time, and that ‘he had to eat beef and drink liquor, and to change his 
clothes, and go about in European clothes, including a hat.’ No wonder 
that such a story got on your nerves, if you believed it. Well, I have been 
over 42 years in India, and I have never beared of such a thing happening; 
and indeed I know it to be quite contrary to what all missionaries with 
whom I am acquainted teach and believe and practise. During my time in 
Rajkot I baptised a number of Brahmins and Jain sadhus. They certainly 
had not to ‘eat beef and drink liquor’, either at the time of baptism or at 
any other time... I know of course that this kind of story is told about 
converts to Christianity in Kathiawad and elsewhere in India. It is 
obviously the wilful invention of people who wish to prevent the spread of 
Christianity in India and hope thereby to frighten young Hindus who show 
an inclination to learn the truth about Christianity, and no doubt it has had 
its results in deterring many such honest inquirers as yourself. But surely 


you must have had many opportunities since then of discovering that that 
particular libel is without foundation, and as a sincere lover of truth you 
cannot lend the great weight of your authority to perpetuate such a wilfully 
malicious misrepresentation of Christian missionaries.”— 


Gandhiji commented, “Though the preaching took place over forty 
years ago the painful memory of it is still vivid before me. What I have 
heard and read since has but confirmed that impression. I have read several 
missionary publications and they are able to see only the dark side and 
paint it darker still. The famous hymn of Bishop Heber’s ‘Greenland’s icy 
mountains’ - is a clear libel on Indian humanity. I was favoured with some 
literature even at the Yervada prison by well-meaning missionaries, which 
seemed to be written as if merely to belittle Hinduism. About beef-eating 
and wine-drinking I have merely stated what I have heard and I have said 
as much in my writing. And whilst I accept Mr. Scott’s repudiation, I must 
say that though I have mixed freely among thousands of Christian Indians, 
I know very few who have scruples about eating beef or other flesh meats 
and drinking intoxicating liquors. When I have gently reasoned with them, 
they have quoted to me the celebrated verse ‘Call thou nothing unclean’ as 
if it referred to eating and gave a licence for indulgence. I know many 
Hindus eat meat, some eat even beef and drink wines. They are not 
converts. Converts are those who are ‘born again’ or should be. A higher 
standard is expected of those who change their faith, if the change is a 
matter of heart and not of convenience.”— 


Gandhiji started giving a series of lectures on the New Testament to the 
students of the Gujarat National College at Ahmedabad from July 24, 1926 
onwards. Some Hindus did not like it. He was accused of being a “secret 
Christian”. They feared that reading the Bible to young boys was likely to 
influence them in favour of Christianity. “We need not dread, upon our 
grown-up children,” wrote Gandhiji in the Young India of September 2, 
1926, “the influence of scriptures other than our own. We libralize their 
outlook upon life by encouraging them to study freely all that is clean. 


Fear there would be when someone reads his own scriptures to young 
people with the intention secretly or openly of converting them. He must 
be biased in favour of his own scriptures. For myself, I regard my study of 
and reverence for the Bible, the Koran and other scriptures to be wholly 
consistent with my claim to be a staunch sanatani Hindu. He is no 
sanatani Hindu who is narrow, bigoted and considers evil to be good if it 
has the sanction of antiquity and is to be found supported in any Sanskrit 
book. I claim to be a staunch sanatani Hindu because though I reject all 
that offends my moral sense, I find the Hindu scriptures to satisfy the need 
of the soul. My respectful study of other religions has not abated my 
reverence for or my faith in Hindu scriptures. They have indeed left their 
deep mark upon my understanding of Hindu scriptures. They have 
broadened my view of life. They have enabled me to understand more 
clearly many obscure passages in the Hindu scriptures.”— 


“The charge of being a Christian in secret,” he continued, “was not 
new. It is both a libel and a compliment - a libel because there are men 
who can believe me to be capable of being secretly anything, i.e. for fear 
of being that openly. There is nothing in the world that would keep me 
from professing Christianity or any other faith the moment I felt the truth 
of and the need for it. Where there is fear there is no religion. The charge 
is a compliment in that it is a reluctant acknowledgement of my capacity 
for appreciating the beauties of Christianity.”— 


Gandhiji’s great regard for Jesus was misunderstood by some 
Christians. W. B. Stover wrote to him, “You have taken the Lord Christ for 
your leader and guide. There is none better.” Gandhiji replied, “You do not 
mind my correcting you. I regard Jesus as a human being like the rest of 
the teachers of the world. As such he was undoubtedly great. But I do not 
by any means regard him to have been the very best. The 
acknowledgement of the debt which I have so often repeated that I owe to 
the Sermon on the Mount should not be mistaken to mean an 


acknowledgement of the Orthodox interpretation of the Bible or the life of 
Jesus. I must not sail under false colours.”— 


Gandhiji had a discussion with some missionaries on July 29, 1927. 
The questions asked by the missionaries and the replies given by him were 
reproduced in the Young India of August 11, 1927. He opened the 
discussion with an introduction on how he looked at the history of religion. 
“Christianity,” he said, “is 1900 years old, Islam is 1300 years old. Who 
knows the possibility of either? I have not read the Vedas in the original 
but have tried to assimilate their spirit and have not hesitated to say that 
though the Vedas may be 13,000 years old - or even a million years old, as 
they well may be, for the word of God is as old as God Himself - even the 
Vedas must be interpreted in the light of our experience. The powers of 
God should not be limited by the limitations of our understandings.” 


Next, he commented on the role of the missionaries as teachers of 
religion and said, “To you who have come to teach India, I therefore say, 
you cannot give without taking. If you have come to give rich treasures of 
experiences, open your hearts out to receive the treasures of this land, and 
you will not be disappointed, neither will you have misread the message of 
the Bible.” The missionaries asked, “What then are we doing? Are we 
doing the right thing?” Gandhiji replied, “You are doing the right thing the 
wrong way. I want you to compliment the faith of the people instead of 
undermining it... Whilst a boy I heard it being said, that to become a 
Christian was to have a brandy bottle in one hand and beef in the other. 
Things are better now, but it is not unusual to find Christianity 
synonymous with denationalisation and Europeanisation. Must we give up 
our simplicity, to become better people? Do not lay the axe at our 
simplicity.”— 


The missionaries posed their problem, “There are not only two issues 
before us, viz., to serve and to teach, there is a third issue, viz.. 


evangelizing, declaring the glad tidings of the coming of Jesus and his 
death in redemption of our sins. What is the right way of giving the right 
news? We need not undermine the faith but we may make people lose their 
faith in lesser things.” Gandhiji’s reply was sharp. “It would be poor 
comfort to the world,” he said, “if it had to depend upon a historical God 
who died 2,000 years ago. Do not then preach the God of history, but show 
Him as He lives today through you... It is better to allow our lives to speak 
for us than our words”— 


The missionaries then asked, “But what about animistic beliefs? 
Should they not be corrected?”— Gandhiji told them not to concern 
themselves “with their beliefs but with asking them to do the right thing.” 
Finally, the missionaries came out with their dogma, “How can we help 
condemning if we feel that our Christian truth is the only reality?” 
Gandhiji saw the implied intolerance and said, “If you cannot feel that the 
other faith is as true as yours, you should feel at least that the men are as 
true as you. The intolerance of Christian missionaries does not, I am glad 
to say, take the ugly shape it used to take some years ago. Think of the 
caricature of Hinduism, which one finds in so many publications of the 
Christian Literature Society. A lady wrote to me the other day saying that 
unless I embraced Christianity all my work would be nothing worth. And 
of course that Christianity must mean what she understands as such. Well, 
all I can say is that it is a wrong attitude.”— 


Gandhiji had received a letter from an American lady who described 
herself as “a lifelong friend of India.” He reproduced it in the Young India 
of October 20, 1927. “Believing that Christ was a revelation of God,” she 
wrote, “Christians of America have sent to India thousands of their sons 
and daughters to tell the people of India about Christ. Will you in return 
kindly give us your interpretation of Hinduism and make a comparison of 
Hinduism with the teachings of Christ?” Gandhiji commented, “I have 
ventured at several missionary meetings to tell English and American 
missionaries that if they could have refrained from ‘telling’ India about 


Christ and had merely lived the life enjoined upon them by the Sermon on 
the Mount, India instead of suspecting them would have appreciated their 
living in the midst of her children and directly profited by their presence. 
Holding this view, I can ‘tell’ American friends nothing about Hinduism 
by way of ‘return’. I do not believe in people telling others of their faith, 
especially with a view of conversion. Faith does not admit of telling. It has 
to be lived and then it becomes self-propagating.”— 


Coming to Hinduism, he wrote, “Believing as I do in the influence of 
heredity, being born in a Hindu family, I have remained a Hindu. I should 
reject it, if I found it inconsistent with my moral sense or my spiritual 
growth. On examination, I have found it to be the most tolerant of all 
religions known to me. Its freedom from dogma makes a forcible appeal to 
me in as much as it gives the votary the largest scope for self-expression. 
Not being an exclusive religion, it enables the followers of the faith not 
merely to respect all the other religions, but it also enables them to admire 
and assimilate whatever may be good in the other faiths. Nonviolence is 
common to all religions, but it has found the highest expression and 
application in Hinduism. (I do not regard Jainism or Buddhism as separate 
from Hinduism.) Hinduism believes in the oneness not of merely all 
human life but in the oneness of all that lives. Its worship of the cow is, in 
my opinion, its unique contribution to the evolution of humanitarianism. It 
is a practical application of the belief in the oneness and, therefore, 
sacredness of all life. The great belief in transmigration is a direct 
consequence of that belief. Finally, the discovery of the law of 
varnashrama is a magnificent result of the ceaseless search for truth.”— 


Gandhiji was on a visit to Ceylon (now Sri Lanka) in November 1927. 
The Young India dated December 8, 1927 reported his speech at the 
Y.M.C.A., Colombo. “Gandhiji then took,” said the report, “the case of 
modem China as a case in point. His heart, he said, went out to young 
China in the throes of a great national upheaval, and he referred to the anti- 
Christian movement in China, about which he had occasion to read in a 


pamphlet received by him from the students department of the Young 
Women’s Christian Association and the Young Men’s Christian 
Association of China. The writers had put their own interpretation upon 
the anti-Christian movement, but there was no doubt that young China 
regarded Christian movements as being opposed to Chinese self- 
expression.” To Gandhiji the moral of this anti-Christian manifestation was 
clear. He proceeded to advise the Ceylonese Christians. “The deduction,” 
he said, “I would like you all to draw from this manifestation is that you 
Ceylonese should not be tom from your moorings, and those from the 
West should not consciously lay violent hands upon the manners, customs 
and habits of the Ceylonese in so far as they are not repugnant to 
fundamental ethics and morality. Confuse not Jesus’ teachings with what 
passes as modern civilization, and pray do not do unconscious violence to 
the people among whom you cast your lot. It is no part of that call, I assure 
you, to tear the lives of the people of the East by its roots. Tolerate 
whatever is good in them and do not hastily with your preconceived 
notions, judge them. Do not judge lest you be judged yourselves.”— 


He ended with a message for the Buddhists who were members of the 
Y.M.C.A. and present in the meeting, “To you, young Ceylonese friends, I 
say: Don’t be dazzled by the splendour that comes to you from the West. 
Do not be thrown off your feet by this passing show. The Enlightened One 
has told you in never-to-be-forgotten words that this little span of life is 
but a passing shadow, a fleeting thing, and if you realize the nothingness of 
all that appears before your eyes, the nothingness of this material case that 
we see before us ever changing, then indeed there are treasures for you up 
above, and there is peace for you down here, peace which passeth all 
understanding, and happiness to which we are utter strangers. It requires 
an amazing faith, a divine faith and surrender of all that we see before 
us... Buddha renounced every worldly happiness, because he wanted to 
share with the whole world his happiness which was to be had by men 
who sacrificed and suffered in search of truth.”— 


Gandhiji had a discussion with members of the Council of 
International Fellowship who stayed in his Ashram in January 1928. The 
discussion was reported in the Young India of January 19. Coming to 
questions about conversions, he said, “I would not only not try to convert 
but would not even secretly pray that anyone should embrace my faith... 
Hinduism with its message of ahimsa is to me the most glorious religion in 
the world - as my wife to me is the most beautiful woman in the world - 
but others may feel the same about their own religion. Cases of real honest 
conversion are quite possible. If some people for their inward satisfaction 
and growth change their religion, let them do so. As regards taking our 
message to the aborigines, I do not think I should go and give my message 
out of my own wisdom. Do it in all humility, it is said. Well I have been an 
unfortunate witness of arrogance often going in the garb of humility. If I 
am perfect, I know that my thought will reach others. It taxes all my time 
to reach the goal I have set to myself. What have I to take to the aborigines 
and the Assamese hillmen except to go in my nakedness to them? Rather 
than ask them to join my prayer, I would join their prayer. We were 
strangers to this sort of classification - ‘animists’, ‘aborigines’, etc., - but 
we have learnt it from English rulers. I must have the desire to serve and it 
must put me right with people. Conversion and service go ill together.”— A 
member asked, “Did not Jesus Himself teach and preach?” Gandhiji 
replied, “We are on dangerous ground here. You ask me to give my 
interpretation of the life of Christ. Well, I may say that I do not accept 
everything in the gospels as historical truth. And it must be remembered 
that he was working amongst his own people, and said he had not come to 
destroy but to fulfil. I draw a great distinction between the Sermon on the 
Mount and the Letters of Paul. They are a graft on Christ’s teaching, his 
own gloss apart from Christ’s own experience.”— 


As Gandhiji’s view of the Christian missions became known, the 
controllers of missions felt concerned. Here was a man whose very 
humility was putting Christianity in the wrong. John R. Mott was a leading 
American evangelist and fabulous fund-raiser for the Protestant missions. 
He came and met Gandhiji on March 1, 1929 and tried to fathom him. The 
interview was published in the Young India of March 21, 1929. After 


discussing some generalities such as the future of India, etc., Mr. Mott 
came to the question he had travelled all the way to pose before Gandhiji. 
He asked, “What then is the contribution of Christianity to the national life 
of India? I mean the influence of Christ as apart from Christianity, for I am 
afraid there is a wide gulf separating the two at present.” Gandhiji replied, 
“Aye, there is the rub. It is not possible to consider the teaching of a 
religious teacher apart from the lives of his followers. Unfortunately, 
Christianity in India has been inextricably mixed up for the last one 
hundred years with the British rule. It appears to us as synonymous with 
the materialistic civilization and imperialistic exploitation by the strong 
white races of the weaker races of the world. Its contribution to India has 
been therefore largely of a negative character. It has done some good in 
spite of its professors. It has shocked us into setting our own house in 
order.”^ 


Mr. Mott asked if Christians can help in the removal of untouchability. 
Gandhiji informed him that the “removal of untouchability is purely a 
question of the purification of Hinduism” and “can only be effected from 
within.” Mr. Mott insisted that “Christians would be a great help to you in 
this connection.” He cited Rev. Whitehead, Bishop of the Church of 
England, who had made “some striking statements about the effect of 
Christian mass movements in ameliorating the condition of the 
untouchables in the Madras Presidency.” Gandhiji said, “I distrust mass 
movements of this nature. They have as their object not the upliftment of 
the untouchables, but their ultimate conversion. This motive of mass 
proselytisation lurking at the back in my opinion vitiates missionary 
effort.”^ 


Mr. Mott now came to the point. “There are some who believe,” he 
said, “that the untouchables would be better off if they turned Christians 
from conviction, and that it would transform their lives.” Gandhiji was 
equally clear. “I am sorry,” he said, “I have been unable to discover any 
tangible evidence to confirm this view. I was once taken into a Christian 


village. Instead of meeting among the converts with that frankness which 
one associates with a spiritual transformation, I found an air of evasiveness 
about them. They were afraid to talk. This struck me as a change not for 
the better but for the worse.”— 


Mr. Mott asked Gandhiji, “Do you disbelieve in all conversion?” 
Gandhiji replied, “I disbelieve in the conversion of one person by another.” 
Mr. Mott repeated the age-old missionary slogan, “Is it not our duty to help 
our fellow-beings to the maximum of the truth we may possess, to share 
with them our deepest spiritual experience?” Gandhiji observed, “I am 
sorry I must again differ with you, for the simple reason that the deepest 
spiritual truths are always unutterable. That light to which you refer 
transcends speech. It can be felt only through the inner experience. And 
then the highest truth needs no communicating, for it is by its very nature 
self-propelling. It radiates its influence silently as the rose its fragrance 
without the intervention of a medium.”— 


Finally, Mr. Mott tried the last weapon in his armoury. “But even 
God,” he said, “sometimes speaks through his prophets.” Gandhiji replied, 
“Yes, but prophets speak not through the tongue but through their lives. I 
have however known that in this matter I am up against a solid wall of 
Christian opinion.” Mr. Mott came down and said, “Oh no, even among 
Christians there is a school of thought - and it is growing.- which holds 
that authoritarian method should not be employed but that each individual 
should be left to discover the deepest truths of life for himself. The 
argument advanced is that the process of spiritual discovery is bound to 
vary in the case of different individuals according to their varying needs 
and temperament. In other words they feel that propaganda in the accepted 
sense of the term is not the most effective method.” Gandhiji welcomed 
the statement adding, “That is what Hinduism certainly inculcates.”— The 
interview ended on a pleasant note, though it did not satisfy Mr. Mott. He 
came for two more rounds some years later.— 


A Christian missionary from Vizagapatam, Mr. Abel, interviewed 
Gandhiji on May 1, 1929. “Is not Jesus Christ the only sinless one?” he 
asked. “What do we know”, said Gandhiji, “of the whole life of Christ? 
Apart from the years of his life given in the four gospels of the New 
Testament - we know nothing of the rest of his life. As a man well-versed 
in the Bible you ought to have known that.”— 


February 23, 1931 was Gandhiji’s day of silence. He wrote a note to 
Dr. Thronton, a Christian missionary, in reply to some points the latter has 
raised. “If the missionary friends,” he said, “will forget their mission, viz., 
of proselytising Indians and of bringing Christ to them, they will do 
wonderfully good work. Your duty is done with the ulterior motive of 
proselytising. I was the first to raise a note of warning in this respect... 
Help certainly you have (brought), viz., what comes through contact with 
you and in spite of you, i.e., the spirit of inquiry about the shortcomings of 
our own religion. You did not want us to pursue the inquiry because you 
saw immorality where we saw spirituality. When I go to your institutions I 
do not feel I am going to an Indian institution. This is what worries me.”— 


Gandhiji gave an interview to the press in Delhi on March 21, 1931. 
“Asked if he would favour the retention of American and other foreign 
missionaries when India secured self-government”, Gandhiji was reported 
to have said, “If instead of confining themselves purely to humanitarian 
work and material service to the poor, they do proselytising by means of 
medical aid, education, etc., I would certainly ask them to withdraw. Every 
nation’s religion is as good as any other. Certainly India’s religions are 
adequate for her people. We need no converting spirituality.”— 


This raised a furore in missionary circles in India and abroad. Gandhiji 
wrote an article, ‘Foreign Missionaries’, in the Young India of April 23, 


1931 in which he was pained to note that “Even George Joseph, my 
erstwhile coworker and gracious host in Madura, has gone into hysterics 
without condescending to verify the report.” He said that what was 
reported in the press was “what a reporter has put into my mouth.”— He 
corrected the press report to read as follows: “if instead of confining 
themselves to purely humanitarian work such as education, medical 
services to the poor and the like, they use these activities of theirs for the 
purpose of proselytising, I would certainly like them to withdraw. Every 
nation considers its own faith to be as good as that of any other. Certainly 
the great faiths held by the people of India are adequate for her people. 
India stands in no need of conversion from one faith to another.”— 


He proceeded to “amplify the bald statement”, which, one must say, 
was not much of an improvement on his earlier statement. He made no 
concession to conversion by “modem methods” which “has nowadays 
become a business like any other.” He was reminded of “a missionary 
report saying how much it cost per head to convert and then presenting a 
budget for the ‘next harvest’.” He also asked some very pertinent 
questions: “Why should I change my religion because a doctor who 
professes Christianity as his religion has cured me of some disease or why 
should the doctor expect or suggest such a change whilst I am under his 
influence? Is not medical relief its own reward and satisfaction? Or why 
should I whilst I am in a missionary educational institution have Christian 
teaching thrust upon me?” He did not rule out conversion but gave his own 
meaning to it. “Conversion in the sense of self-purification, self- 
realization,” he wrote, “is the crying need of the hour. That, however, is 
not what is meant by proselytising. To those who would convert India, 
might it not be said, ‘physician heal thyself’?”— On the same day he 
cabled a summary of his article to The Daily Herald of Eondon. 


The Christian opinion, however, was far from satisfied by his article. 
On April 11, 1931, James P. Rutnam of Ceylon put some questions to him. 
“in this great struggle for Swaraj,” he asked, “are we not fighting for 


liberty, liberty to worship our God as we please, liberty to convince our 
fellows who are willing to be convinced by our fellows who can convince 
us? Is India so bigoted as to think that within her are confined all the riches 
of the world, all the treasures of knowledge and human experience?”— 
Gandhiji was painfully surprised at this persistent misunderstanding. He 
wrote another article, ‘Foreign Missionaries Again’, in the Young India of 
May 7, 1931. After explaining that he included Christianity among the 
religions of India, he said, “The attack has therefore surprised me not a 
little especially because the views I have now enunciated have been held 
by me since 1916, and were deliberately expressed in a carefully written 
address read before a purely missionary audience in Madras and since 
repeated on many a Christian platform. The recent criticism has but 
confirmed the view, for the criticism has betrayed intolerance even of 
friendly criticism. The missionaries know that in spite of my outspoken 
criticism of their methods, they have in India and among non-Christians no 
warmer friend than I. And I suggest to my critics that there must be 
something wrong about their methods or, if they prefer, themselves when 
they will not brook sincere expression of an opinion different from theirs. 
In India under swaraj I have no doubt that foreign missionaries will be at 
liberty to do their proselytising, as I would say, in the wrong way; but they 
would be expected to bear with those who, like me, may point out that in 
their opinion the way is wrong.”— 


He had to return to the theme on May 5, 1931 when he received a long 
letter from Rev. B. W. Tucker. The missionary was “in full agreement with 
you in your protest against the methods employed by Christian missions in 
their efforts to gain proselytes through education, medical services and the 
like.”— He also welcomed Gandhiji’s assurance that a swaraj government 
will not create “any legal enactment compelling missionaries to withdraw 
if they failed to give up their proselytising activities.” But he registered a 
protest “against the implications of your statement that the religions of 
India are adequate for her.”— Gandhiji wrote a short comment 
emphasizing that he still adhered “to the statement to which Rev. Tucker 
takes exception and which is, ‘Religions of India are adequate for her’.” 
He also made it clear that “What is resisted is the idea of gaining converts 


and that too not always by fair and open means.”— He followed up by yet 
another article, ‘Missionary Methods in India’, in the Young India of June 
6, 1931. A retired Deputy Collector had written to him citing various 
sources, including Indian Census Report for I9II, and stating that 
missionaries were using material inducements for gaining converts. “That 
collection of quotations from named sources,” wrote Gandhiji, “should, 
instead of offending missionaries, cause an inward search. I have several 
other similar articles, some from Christian Indians. The writer will excuse 
me for withholding them. The controversy ought not to be prolonged.”— 


Three months later when Gandhiji was in London for attending the 
Second Round Table Conference, he was invited on October 8., 1931 to 
speak at the Conference of Mission Societies in Great Britain and Ireland. 
He started by trying to remove the misunderstanding created by the recent 
controversy about the place of Christian missions in India after attainment 
of independence. He ruled out “legislation to prohibit missionary 
enterprises.” But he maintained firmly his position about proselytisation. 
He said, “The idea of converting people to one’s faith by speech and 
writing, by appeal to reason and emotion and by suggesting that the faith 
of his forefathers is a bad faith, in my opinion, limits the possibilities of 
serving humanity.”— He admitted his indebtedness to “Christian influence 
for some of my social work” such as a “fierce hatred of child marriage.” 
But he made it clear that “Before I knew anything of Christianity I was an 
enemy of untouchability.”— 


Rev. Godfrey Philips of London Missionary Society posed a question 
before Gandhiji. “I wish we could understand one another better,” he said, 
“with regard to what is happening amongst the ‘untouchables’ in 
connection with Christian missions... We have found in our experience that 
when the ‘untouchable’, the outcaste, is down and out, we can do nothing 
permanent except by implanting in his inmost heart something that has 
vitalizing power - in our experience that is fellowship with God in 
Christ.”— Gandhiji replied that “in my own humble opinion it is an 


erroneous way” and that as “the rose would not have to speak, neither 
would the Christian missionary have to speak.” If the Christian missionary 
believes that “before he can come to the help of the untouchables, he must 
bring the message of God, or the message of the Bible, to the 
untouchables, how much more than to a man like me?” Gandhiji 
emphasised that “after having mixed with tens of thousands of 
untouchables”, he was convinced that they do not understand the 
missionary’s language. “They understand me better,” he said, “because I 
speak their language. I speak to them about their degraded condition. I do 
not speak about God. I feel that I take the message of God to them in this 
particular manner just as to a starving man I take the message of God 
through the bread I give him. I have no axe to grind. I must not exploit 
him, I just give him the bread. If I want to convey God to the humble 
untouchable I must take Him the way that he needs.”— 


The next question, put by Rev. C. E. Wilson of the Baptist Missionary 
Society, was sharp. “Does Mr. Gandhi,” he asked, “mean that it is not right 
for us to go to India or any place and try to make people disciples, to teach 
the supreme truth of Jesus Christ, if we believe him to be the highest that 
we know? Mr. Gandhi has been preaching to us today. Does he mean to 
exclude all preaching?”— Rev. W. H. G. Holmes of the Ok ford Mission at 
Calcutta told an anecdote about the plight of untouchables which he had 
himself seen. He was extending support to Rev. C. E. Wilson. “Would we 
be right,” he asked, “in going to teach them about this Eather, who I told 
them loved them as dearly as he loved us, and would Mr. Gandhi 
encourage them to let us have land to build on in order to teach these 
people?” 


Gandhiji replied, “Yes, I would, on one condition that you will teach 
them the religion of their forefathers through the religion they have got. 
Don’t say to them: ‘The only way to know the Eather is our way.’... Show 
the ‘untouchables’ the Eather as He appears in his own surroundings. 
Unless you are satisfied that we do not know the Eather at all, and then of 


course it is your duty to say - ‘What you know as Father is no Father at 
all. What you believe comes from Satan.’ I sometimes receive letters 
saying that I am a good man, but that I am doing the devil’s work. I feel I 
adore the same Father though in a different form. I may not adore him as 
‘God’. To me that name makes no appeal, but when I think of Him as 
Rama, He thrills me. To think of God as ‘God’ does not fire me as the 
name Rama does. There is no poetry in it. I know that my forefathers have 
known him as Rama. They have been uplifted by Rama, and when I take 
the name of Rama, I arise with the same energy. It would not be possible 
for me to use the name ‘God’ as it is written in the Bible. It is contrary to 
experience. I should not be attracted. I should not be lifted to the truth. 
Therefore my whole soul rejects the teaching that Rama is not my God.”— 


A member of the Conference “referred to the command for Christians 
to go out to all the world and preach the Gospel to every creature.” 
Gandhiji said that “if the questioner believed that these were the inspired 
words in the Bible, then he was called upon to obey implicitly - why did 
he ask a non-Christian for his interpretation?” The meeting ended with the 
President, Rev. W. Paton declaring that “Mr. Gandhi had made it 
abundantly clear that the issue between him and the Christian missionary 
movement lay much deeper than was supposed.”— 


On his way back from London on board S. S. Pilsana, Gandhiji gave a 
talk on Christ on Christmas Day, 1931. “I shall tell you,” he said, “how, to 
an outsider like me, the story of Christ, as told in the New Testament, has 
struck. My acquaintance with the Bible began nearly forty years ago, and 
that was through the New Testament. I could not then take much interest in 
Old Testament which I had certainly read, if only to fulfil a promise I had 
made to a friend whom I happened to meet in a hotel. But when I came to 
the New Testament and the Sermon on the Mount, I began to understand 
the Christian teaching and the teaching of the Sermon on the Mount 
echoed something I had learnt in childhood and something which seemed 


to be a part of my being and which I felt was being acted up to in the daily 
life around me.” 


He had no u se, for the Jesus of history. “I may say,” he continued, 
“that I have never been interested in a historical Jesus. I should not care if 
it was proved by someone that the man called Jesus never lived, and that 
what was narrated in the Gospels was a figment of the writer’s 
imagination. For the Sermon on the Mount would still be true for me.” 
Finally, he came to Christianity as practised by Christians and as preached 
by the missionaries. “Reading, therefore, the whole story in that light,” he 
concluded, “it seems to me that Christianity has yet to be lived, unless one 
says that where there is boundless love and no idea of retaliation 
whatsoever, it is Christianity that lives. But then it surmounts all 
boundaries and book-teaching. Then it is something indefinable, not 
capable of being preached to men, not capable of being transmitted from 
mouth to mouth, but from heart to heart. But Christianity is not commonly 
understood that way.”— 


One of the Hindu practices which Christians regard as gross 
superstition and sin is idol-worship. A Christian, F. Mary Barr, sought 
Gandhiji’s opinion about it. In his letter dated November 30, 1932, 
Gandhiji wrote, “What must not be forgotten about me is that I do not 
consider idol-worship to be a sin, but I know that in some form or other it 
is a condition of our being. The difference between one form of worship 
and another is a difference in degree and not in kind. Mosque-going or 
Church-going is a form of idol-worship. Veneration for the Bible, the 
Koran, the Gita and the like is idol-worship and even if you don’t use a 
book or a building but draw a picture of divinity in your imagination and 
attribute certain qualities, it is again idol-worship and I refuse to call the 
worship of one who has a stone-image a grosser form of worship... it 
would be both arrogant and ignorant to look down upon such worship as 
superstition... All this is a plea for a definite recognition of the fact that all 
forms of honest worship are equally good and equally efficient for the 


respective worshippers. Time is gone for the exclusive possession of right 
by an individual or a group.”— 


Gandhiji had received a letter dated November 17, 1932 from Chas. 
Peacock stating that he was an Indian Christian who wanted to work for 
the removal of untouchability in Andhra “without surrendering my 
Christ... and without trying to change his religion.” He replied on 
December 10, 1932 stating that “Christians who have no desire to 
proselytise can render substantial help to the Anti-untouchability 
Movement by working under or with the ordinary Hindu organisations.” 
At the same time he added, “I observe from the correspondence I am 
receiving from Christian friends that the Hindu movement has quickened 
the conscience of Indian Christians and they are impatient to get rid of the 
taint in their midst.”— It was a hint that Mr. Peacock would do better to 
work for the removal of untouchability prevalent among Christians and 
leave Hindu untouchables to the Hindus. 


He made the point abundantly clear in an interview to the Associated 
Press of India on January 2, 1933. He had received a letter from Colombo 
informing him that “non-Hindus consisting of a Buddhist, a Roman 
Catholic lady, a Christian and a few Muslims” had offered “what has been 
misnamed satyagraha” in order to secure-temple-entry for Hindu 
untouchables. “I have no hesitation whatsoever,” he told the press 
correspondent, “in saying that this could not be justified under any 
circumstances. It would be a most dangerous interference if non-Hindus 
were to express their sympathy by way of direct action. Indeed, I go as far 
as to say that direct action can be offered [only] by those caste. Hindus 
who are entitled to enter the temple in regard to which such action is taken, 
and who being entitled, believe in temple entry.”— In a letter to Horace 
Alexander written on January 5, 1933 he pointed out, “I get now and then 
piteous letters from Christian Indians who, being bom of untouchable 
parents, are isolated from the rest of their fellows.”— 


Gandhiji received a letter from Amritlal Thakkar, a Malabar Christian, 
stating that “the Christian Harijan in Travancore is, in matter of civic, or 
social rights and in abject poverty, absolutely the same as his Hindu 
Harijan brother.” He wrote in the Young India of March 18, 1933, that 
‘Christian Harijans’ should be a contradiction in terms because 
untouchability was regarded as a special curse of Hinduism. “The present 
movement,” he said “is automatically helping Christian Harijans, but I 
should be surprised if advantage is not being taken of the movement to 
drive out untouchability from the Church.”— 


The epic fast which Gandhiji had undertaken in order to oppose the 
separation of Harijans from Hindu society as intended by Ramsay 
MacDonald’s Communal Award, brought him many letters from the West. 
A majority of them were “full of goodwill and appreciation of it and the 
motive lying behind it.” But some letters were critical of the fast. One of 
them which Gandhiji published in full in the Harijan dated July 22, 1933, 
was from America and downright denunciatory. The writer thought that 
the fast had accomplished nothing, not even the publicity it was aimed at. 
“India whose culture and civilization,” said the writer, “goes back far 
beyond record, which was given the new tongue of Christ Jesus by 
Thomas, the disciple, in the first century, and in the centuries just past has 
been given many opportunities to face the light, still remains in pagan 
darkness, its caste system of society the greatest sore spot on the modern 
world.”— The disciple of Jesus went ahead and repeated all the standard 
accusations that had been hurled by Christian missionaries against India 
for years on end - India’s women were “without soul”, India’s millions 
lived in “nauseating filth”, India’s ‘Holy Men’ sat “for years in some 
deformed position publicly torturing the body to liberate the soul”, and 
India’s “pagan religious rites” consisted of “striking the body full of nails, 
spears through the tongue, and other revolting tortures.” He said he had 
not read Miss Mayo’s Mother India but “am told on good authority that it 
is a compilation of facts - so horrible that I have known cases of extreme 
illness from reading it.” 


The letter proved, if a proof was needed, that neither the protest 
registered by Vivekananda nor the admiration for Jesus expressed by 
Mahatma Gandhi had helped orthodox Christians to emerge out of the self- 
righteous ignorance in which they had enveloped themselves and stop their 
vicious propaganda against Hinduism. Gandhiji commented that the writer 
“starts with a bias and ends with it”, that he “repeats the exploded libel 
about the women of India”, that he had “evidently read literature 
containing ignorant and interested distortions”, and that he had indulged in 
“wild generalisations” about “the tortures which so-called yogis undergo.” 
He concluded, “One can pity the readers, if there were any such, who 
made themselves sick by reading a book which opened the drains of India 
and made the readers believe that they were India.”— He was mild as ever 
and left it to the readers to judge for themselves the mind from which the 
letter had emanated. 


One of the ways by which the Catholic Church in India sought to 
alienate Hindus from their ancestral religion was to insist that the children 
of Hindu husbands and Catholic wives would be brought up as Catholics. 
It had been seen that most Hindu young men who fell in love with 
Catholic girls yielded easily to this demand. The issue came before 
Gandhiji when Manu and Elizabeth, both of whom were known to him, 
decided for a love marriage. He was never enthusiastic about love 
marriages which he had seen failing in most cases after the first few years. 
Moreover, he was opposed to marriages tearing away young people from 
their families and favoured marriages seeking the “approval and blessings 
of the elders.”— So he expressed his views on the subject in a letter dated 
November 16, 1933 written to Efy Aristarchi, a friend of Manu and 
Elizabeth. “The most fatal objection, however,” he said, “that I can see to 
this proposed match, is that Elizabeth desires, and from her own standpoint 
perhaps naturally so, that the progeny should be brought up in the Roman 
Catholic faith. I do not mind it at all. But, even though Manu may have no 
objection, his parents and his people whom he loves dearly will never be 


able to reconcile themselves to their grandchildren being brought up in a 
faith other than their own.”— 


His objection was based on his perception of “a conflict going on 
between Hindu culture and the Christianity of Indians.” He had seen that 
“Christianity has become synonymous with Western culture” which, in 
turn, “may be fittingly described as Christian culture” because “the 
religion of the Western people is predominantly Christianity.” On the other 
hand, “Indian culture would certainly be described as Hindu culture.” He, 
therefore, thought it proper that “the progeny of Elizabeth must be brought 
up in entirely different surroundings unless Manu decides to tear himself 
away from his surroundings and lives an exclusive life or decides to settle 
down in the West.”— He was of the firm opinion that “when husband and 
wife profess a different faith, the progeny should be brought up in the faith 
of the husband” and he had “sound religious and philosophic reasons for 
this proposition.”— 


As more and more Christian agencies were coming forward to work 
for the removal of untouchability, Gandhiji made his terms clear in a 
speech at the Leonard Theological College, Jabalpur, on December 7, 
1993. While inviting these agencies to work in subordination to Hindu 
agencies set up for Harijan uplift, he said, “You may choose to work 
independently. You may have the conversion of Harijans to Christianity. 
You may see in the movement a chance for propaganda. If you work 
among the Harijans with such aim, you can see that the very end we have 
in view will be frustrated. If you believe that Hinduism is a gift, not of 
God, but of Satan, quite clearly you cannot accept my terms. You and I 
would be dishonest if we did not make clear to one another what we stand 

for.”I07 


A group of Christian Harijans came to Gandhiji and the talk he had 
with them was published in the Harijan of February, 23, 1934. “We are in 


the same position,” they said, “as Adi-Dravida Hindus. Are we to have any 
share in this movement?” Gandhiji told them, “You are getting indirect 
benefit. The Christian missionaries are wide awake and recognize that they 
should do something.” They proceeded, “We have decided to face the 
oppressors boldly. We are thinking of changing our faith.” Gandhiji said, 
“I cannot say anything about that. But I feel that oppression can be no 
reason for changing our faith.” The Christian Harijans asked, “Shall we get 
any relief in future from this movement?” Gandhiji assured them, “Yes, I 
am absolutely certain that, if this movement succeeds untouchability in 
Christianity is also bound to go.”— 


Mahadev Desai recorded in the Harijan dated January 25, 1935 a talk 
which Gandhiji had with a friend who had reported to him that the 
progress of the anti-untouchability campaign had “disturbed some of our 
Missionary friends.” The friend said, “Your campaign is taking away from 
the Missionary’s popularity.” Gandhiji replied, “I see what you mean, but I 
do not know why it should disturb them. We are not traders trenching on 
one another’s province. If it is a matter of serving oneself, I should 
understand their attitude, but when it is entirely a matter of serving others, 
it should not worry them or me as to who serves them.”— 


The friend posed the question another way. “But perhaps,” he said, 
“the authorities in charge of a Mission hospital would rightly feel worried, 
if you sent your people to go and open a hospital in the same place.” 
Gandhiji explained, “But they should understand that ours is a different 
mission. We do not go there to afford them simply medical relief or a 
knowledge of the three R’s; our going to them is a small proof of our 
repentance and our assurance to them that we will not exploit them any 
more. I should never think of opening a hospital where there is already 
one; but if there is a Mission school, I should not mind opening another for 
Harijan children, and I would even encourage them to prefer our school to 
the other. Let us frankly understand the position. If the object is purely 
humanitarian, purely that of carrying education where there is none, they 


should be thankful that someone whose obvious duty it is to put his own 
house in order wakes up to a sense of his duty. But my trouble is that the 
Missionary friends do not bring to bear on their work a purely 
humanitarian spirit. Their object is to add more members to their fold, and 
that is why they are disturbed. The complaint which I have been making 
all these years is more than justified by what you say. Some of the friends 
of a Mission were the other day in high glee over the conversion to 
Christianity of a learned pandit. They have been dear friends, and so I told 
them that it was hardly proper to go into ecstasies over a man forsaking his 
religion. Today it is the case of a learned Hindu, tomorrow it may be that 
of an ignorant villager not knowing the principles of his religion. Why 
should Missionaries complain, if I open a school which is more liked by 
Harijans than theirs? Is it not natural?”— 


The friend asked, “But if it was a pure case of conscience?” Gandhiji 
replied, “I am no keeper of anybody’s conscience, but I do feel that it 
argues some sort of weakness on the part of a person who easily declares 
his or her failure to derive comfort in the faith in which he or she is 
born.”^ 


The Harijan dated March 29, 1935 published an interview which 
Gandhiji had given to a Christian missionary before March 22. The 
missionary “asked Gandhiji what was the most effective way of preaching 
the gospel of Christ, for that was his mission.” Gandhiji replied, “To live 
the gospel is the most effective way - most effective in the beginning, in 
the middle and in the end. Preaching jars on me and makes no appeal to 
me, and I get suspicious of missionaries who preach. But I love those who 
never preach but live the life according to their lights. Their lives are silent 
yet most effective testimonies... If, therefore, you go on serving people and 
ask them also to serve, then they would understand. But you quote instead 
John 3, 16 and ask them to believe it. That has no appeal to me, and I am 
sure people will not understand it. Where there has been acceptance of the 
gospel through preaching, my complaint is that there has been some 


motive.” The missionary said that “we also see it and try our best to guard 
against it.” Gandhiji observed, “But you can’t guard against it. One sordid 
motive vitiates the whole preaching. It is like a drop of poison which fouls 
the whole food. Therefore I should do without preaching at all. A rose 
does not need to preach, it simply spreads its fragrance... The fragrance of 
religious and spiritual life is much finer and subtler than that of the 


The same issue of the Harijan published another interview given by 
Gandhiji to some missionary ladies, also before March 22. One of their 
questions was whether the Harijan Sangh was doing “anything for the 
spiritual welfare of the people.” Gandhiji replied that “with me, moral 
includes spiritual” and that setting up a separate department for spiritual 
welfare will “make the thing doubly difficult.” The ladies said that they 
had “something to share with the others” and that was the Bible. “Now as 
for Harijans,” they asked, “who have no solace to get from Hinduism, how 
are we to meet their spiritual needs?” Gandhiji replied, “By behaving just 
like the rose. Does the rose proclaim itself, or is it self-propagated? Has it 
an army of missionaries proclaiming its beauties?”— The ladies persisted, 
“But suppose someone asked us, where did you get the scent?” Gandhiji 
said, “The rose if it has sense and speech would say, ‘Fool, don’t you see 
that I got if from my maker?”’— 


The Harijan dated May 11, 1935 published an interview given by 
Gandhiji to a missionary nurse before that date. The nurse asked him, 
“Would you prevent missionaries coming to India in order to baptise?” 
Gandhiji replied, “If I had power and could legislate, I should certainly 
stop all proselytising. It is the cause of much avoidable conflict between 
classes and unnecessary heart-burning among the missionaries... In Hindu 
households the advent of a missionary has meant the disruption of the 
family coming in the wake of change of dress, manners, language, food 
and drink.”— The nurse commented, “Is it not the old conception you are 
referring to? No such thing is now associated with proselytisation.” 


Gandhiji was well-informed about missionary methods. He said, “The 
outward condition has perhaps changed but the inward mostly remains the 
same. Vilification of Hindu religion, though subdued, is there. If there was 
a radical change in the missionaries’ outlook, would Murdoch’s books be 
allowed to be sold in mission depots? Are those books prohibited by 
missionary societies? There is nothing but vilification of Hinduism in 
those books. You talk of the conception being no longer there. The other 
day a missionary descended on a famine area with money in his pocket, 
distributed it among the famine-stricken, converted them to his fold, took 
charge of their temple and demolished it. This is outrageous. The temple 
could not belong to the converted, and it could not belong to the Christian 
missionary. But this friend goes and gets it demolished at the hands of the 
very men who only a little while ago believed that God was there.”— 


The nurse took shelter behind the Bible. “But, Mr. Gandhi,” she asked, 
“why do you object to proselytisation? Is not there enough in the Bible to 
authorise us to invite people to a better way of life?” Gandhiji replied, “If 
you interpret your texts in the way you seem to do, you straightaway 
condemn a large part of humanity unless it believes as you do.... And 
cannot he who has not heard the name of Jesus Christ do the will of the 
Lord?”l^ 


The Harijan dated May 25, 1935 published a discussion which 
Gandhiji had with Pierre Ceresole on May 16. He told Gandhiji about a 
book, India in the Dark Wood, which he had recently read and which 
wanted “the main framework of the dominant Hindu philosophy to be 
shattered.” The author of another book, Jesus: Lord or Leader?, also read 
recently by Ceresole, on the other hand, “rejects the claim of Christianity 
as the final religion and pines for a ‘fuller and richer faith than we have 
reached and to believe that God who has nowhere left Himself without 
witness, will use the highest institutions of other systems and many races 
to enrich the thinking and worship of mankind.’ He sees definite gain -in 
the abandonment of special claim for the inspiration of the Bible, and 


classes himself among those ‘who humbly desire to follow Jesus as leader, 
though their view of truth will not allow them to worship him as Lord’.” 
Gandhiji commanded the second approach, saying “There is a swing in the 
pendulum.”— 


Gandhiji was carrying on a discussion with Mr. A. A. Paul of the 
Federation of International Fellowships “on the so-called mass conversion 
of a village predominantly or wholly composed of Harijans.”— Mr. Paul 
asked him to “publish a statement giving your view of conversion?” 
Gandhiji replied that it would be easier for him if Mr. Paul could formulate 
some questions to which he could reply. So the Executive Committee of 
the International Fellowship in Madras sent to him nine propositions 
which he published in the Harijan dated September 29, 1935 with his own 
comments on them. 


The first proposition was: Conversion is a change of heart from sin to 
God. It is the work of God. Sin is separation from God.— Gandhiji 
observed, “If conversion is the work of God why should the work be taken 
away from Him?... I often wonder if we are true judges of our own 
hearts... And if we know so little of ourselves, how much less we know of 
our neighbours and remote strangers who may differ from us in a 
multitude of things, some of which are of the highest moment?”— 


The second proposition was: The Christian believes that Jesus is the 
fulfilment of God’s revelation to mankind, that he is our Saviour from sin, 
that he alone can bring a sinner to God and thus enable him to live.— 
Gandhiji said, “The second proposition deals with the Christian belief 
handed to the believer from generation to generation, the truth of which 
thousands of Christians bom are never called upon to test for themselves, 
and rightly not. Surely it is a dangerous thing to present it to those who 
have been brought up in a different belief. And it would appear to me to be 


impertinent on my part to present my untested belief to the professor of 
another which for aught I know may be as true as mine. It is highly likely 
that mine may be good enough for me and his for him.”— 


aThe third proposition was: The Christian, to whom God has become a 
living reality and power through Christ, regards it as his privilege and duty 
to speak about Jesus and to proclaim the free offer which He came on earth 
to make.— Gandhiji said, “The third proposition too, like the first, relates 
to mysteries of religion which are not understood by the common people 
who take them in faith. They work well enough among people living in the 
traditional faith. They will repel those who have been brought up to 
believe something else.”— 


The next five propositions stated that if a man wanted to repent and 
live a new life as a disciple of Jesus, the Christian regards it as his right to 
admit him to the Christian Church; that the Christian will do all in his 
power to test the sincerity of the convert and point out the consequences of 
conversion; that the Christian will try his best to prevent conversion for 
material considerations; that the Christian shall not be accused of using 
material inducements if the conversion results in the social uplift of the 
convert; and that the Christian was right in accepting as his duty the care 
of the sincere convert, body, soul and mind.— “The other five 
propositions,” commented Gandhiji, “deal with the conduct of the 
missionary among those whom he is seeking to convert. They seem to me 
almost impossible of application in practice. The start being wrong all that 
follows must be necessarily so. Thus how is the Christian to sound the 
sincerity of the conviction of his hearers? By a show of hands? By 
personal conversation? By a temporary trial? Any test that can be 
conceived will fail even to be reasonably conclusive. No one but God 
knows a man’s heart. Is the Christian so sure of his being so right in body, 
mind and soul as to feel comfortably ‘right in accepting as his duty the 
care of the sincere convert - body, soul and mind’?”— 


The last proposition was: It shall not be brought against the Christian 
that he is using material inducements, when certain facts in Hindu social 
theory, out of his control, are in themselves an inducement to the 
Harijans.— Gandhiji said, “The last proposition - the crown of all the 
preceding ones - takes one’s breath away. For it makes it clear that the 
other eight are to be applied in all their fullness to the poor Harijans. And 
yet the very first proposition has not ceased to puzzle the brains of some of 
the most intellectual and philosophical persons even in the present 
generation. Who knows the nature of original sin? What is the meaning of 
separation from God? Are all who preach the message of Jesus the Christ 
sure of their union with God? If they are not, who will test the Harijan’s 
knowledge of these deep things?”— 


“It is a conviction daily growing upon me,” concluded Gandhiji, “that 
the great and rich Christian missions will render true service to India, if 
they can persuade themselves to confine their activities to humanitarian 
service without ulterior motive of converting India or at least her 
unsophisticated villagers to Christianity, and destroying their social 
superstructure, which notwithstanding its many defects, has stood now 
from time immemorial the onslaught upon it from within and without. 
Whether they - the missionaries - and we wish it or not, what is true in the 
Hindu faith will abide, what is untrue will fall to pieces.”— 


Extracts from a letter from a Christian friend of Gandhiji were 
reproduced in the Harijan dated April 18, 1936. He quoted Jesus as saying 
to the Jews, “If you believe not that I am He, you shall die of your sins” 
and “I am the way, the truth and the life, no man cometh into the Father, 
but by me.” Next, he threw a challenge to Gandhiji, “You must either 
believe Him to have been self-deceived or deliberately false.” Finally, he 
declared, “I pray daily that Christ may grant to you a revelation of Himself 
as He did to Saul of Tarsus, that... you may be used to proclaim to India’s 


millions the sacrificial efficacy of His precious blood.”— Gandhiji wrote, 
“This is a typical letter from an old English friend who regularly writes 
such letters almost every six months. This friend is very earnest and well 
known to me. But there are numerous other correspondents unknown to 
me who write in the same strain without arguing. Since I now cannot for 
reasons of health write to individual writers, I use this letter as a text for a 
general reply.”— 


“My correspondent,” continued Gandhiji, “is a literalist... My very 
first reading of the Bible showed me that I would be repelled by many 
things in it if I gave their literal meaning to many texts or even took every 
passage in it as the word of God. I should find it hard to believe in the 
literal meaning of the verses relating to the immaculate conception of 
Jesus. Nor would it deepen my regard for Jesus if I gave those verses their 
literal meaning... The miracles said to have been performed by Jesus even 
if I had believed them literally would not have reconciled me to anything 
that did not satisfy universal ethics... Jesus then to me is a great world- 
teacher among others. He was to the devotees of his generation no doubt 
‘the only begotten son of God’. Their belief need not be mine. I regard him 
as one among the many begotten sons of God.”— Finally, he said, “The 
Gita has become for me the key to the scriptures of the world. It unravels 
for me the deepest mysteries to be found in them. I regard them with the 
same reverence that I pay to the Hindu scriptures. Hindus, Mussulmans, 
Christians, Parsis, Jews are convenient labels. But when I tear them down, 
I do not know which is which.”— 


On or after May 10, 1936 Gandhiji had a discussion with Professor 
Rahm, a reputed biologist from Switzerland. Dr. Rahm said that he was 
“perplexed by the many warring creeds in the world and wondered if there 
was no way of ending the conflict.” Gandhiji gave a very straight-forward 
reply. “It depends,” he said, “on Christians. If only they would make up 
their mind to unite with the others! But they will not do so. Their solution 
is universal acceptance of Christianity as they believe it. An English friend 


has been at me for the last forty years trying to persuade me that there is 
nothing but damnation in Hinduism and that I must accept Christianity. 
When I was in jail, I got, from three separate sources, no less than three 
copies of the Life of Sister Therese, in the hope that I should follow her 
example and accept Jesus as the only begotten son of God and my Saviour. 
I read the book prayerfully but I could not accept even St. Therese’s 
testimony for myself.”— 


Gandhiji proceeded to make his position quite clear vis-a-vis orthodox 
Christianity. “But today,” he said, “I rebel against orthodox Christianity, as 
I am convinced that it has distorted the message of Jesus. He was an 
Asiatic whose message was delivered through many media and when it 
had the backing of a Roman emperor, it became an imperialist faith which 
it remains today. Of course there are noble but rare exceptions like 
Andrews and El win. But the general trend is the same.”— For the first 
time he did not try to reinterpret Christianity for Christians. The obstinacy 
shown by the orthodox Christians had hardened his attitude. 


A Polish student brought a photograph to Gandhiji and got it 
autographed by him. “There is,” he said, “a school conducted by Catholic 
Fathers. I shall help the school from the proceeds of the sale of this 
photograph.” Gandhiji took back the photograph from the student and said, 
“Ah, that is a different story. You do not expect me to support the Fathers 
in their mission of conversion? You know what they do?” The Harijan of 
June 27,1936 which relates this incident, continues, “And with this he told 
him... the story of the so-called conversions in the vicinity of 
Tiruchengodu, the desecration and demolition of the Hindu temple, how he 
had been requested by the International Fellowship of Faiths to forbear 
writing about the episode as they were trying to intervene, how ultimately 
even the intervention of that body composed mainly of Christians had 
failed, and how he was permitted to write about it in the Harijan. He, 
however, had deliberately refrained from writing in order not to exacerbate 
feelings on the matter.”— 


The Harijan dated July 18, 1936 published a discussion which 
Gandhiji had with Pierre Ceresole and some Christian missionaries. The 
dialogue deserves to be reproduced at some length because it shows most 
clearly the missionary mentality and Gandhiji’s opposition to it: 

(Missionary Lady) I have not had the time or desire to evangelize. 
The Church at home would be happy if through our hospital more 
people would be led to Christian lives. 


(Gandhiji) But whilst you give the medical help you expect the 
reward in the shape of your patients becoming Christians. 


(M.L.) Yes, the reward is expected. Otherwise there are many 
other places in the world which need our service. But instead of going 
there we come here. 


“(G.) There is the kink. At the back of your mind there is not pure 
service for its sake, but the result of service in the shape of many 
people coming to the Christian fold. (M.L.) In my own work there is 
no ulterior motive. I care for people, I cannot do otherwise. The 
source of this is my loyalty to Jesus who ministered to suffering 
humanity. At the back of my mind there is, I admit, the desire that 
people may find the same joy in Jesus that I find. Where is the kink? 


(G.) The kink is in the Church thinking that there are people in 
whom certain things are lacking and that you must supply them 
whether they want them or not if you simply say to your patients, 
‘You have taken the medicine I gave you. Thank God. He has healed 



you. Don’t come again’, you have done your duty. But if you also say, 
‘How nice it would be if you had the same faith in Christianity as I 
have’, you do not make your medicine a free gift. 


(M.L.) But if I feel I have something medically and spiritually 
which I can give, how can I keep it? 


(G.) There is a way out of the difficulty. You must feel that what 
you possess your patient also can possess but through a different 
route. You will say to yourself, ‘I have come through this route, you 
may come through a different route.’ Why should you want him to 
pass through your university and no other? 

(M.L.) Because I have my partiality for my Alma Mater. 


(G.) There is my difficulty. Because you adore your mother you 
cannot wish that all the others were your 
mother’s children. 

(M.L.) That is a physical impossibility. 


(G.) Then this one is a spiritual impossibility. God has the whole 
humanity as His children. How can I limit God’s grace by my little 
mind and say this is the only way? 


(M.L.) I do not say it is the only way. There might be a better 
way. 



(G.) If you concede that there might be a better way, you have 
surrendered the point. 


(M.L.) Well, if you say that you have found your way, I am not so 
terrifically concerned with you. I will deal with one who is 
floundering in mind. 


(G.) Will you judge him? Have you people not floundered? Why 
will you present your particular brand of truth to all? 

(M.L.) I must present to him the medicine I know. 


(G.) Then you will say to him, ‘Have you seen your own doctor?’ 
You will send him to his doctor, ask the doctor to take charge of him. 
You will perhaps consult that doctor, you will discuss with him the 
diagnosis, and will convince him or allow yourself to be convinced 
by him. But there you are dealing with a wretched physical thing. 
Here you are dealing with a spiritual thing where you cannot go 
through all these necessary investigations. What I plead for is 
humility. You do not claim freedom from hypocrisy for the Christian 
Church?— 


At this point Dr. Pierre Ceresole, who-pretended to be a “liberal” 
Christian, intervened: 

(P.C.) Most of us believe our religion to be the best and they have 
not the slightest idea what other religions have revealed to their 
adherents... 


(G.) I tell you have not read as many books on Hinduism as I have 
about Christianity. And yet I have not come to the conclusion that 
Christianity or Hinduism is the only way.— 

The missionary friend wondered, “What exactly should be missionaries’ 
attitude?” 

(G.) I think I have made it clear. But I shall say it again in other 
words: Just to forget that you have come to a country of heathens and 
to think that they are as much in search of God as you are; just to feel 
that you are not going there to give your spiritual goods to them, but 
that you will share your worldly goods of which you have a good 
stock. You will then do your work without mental reservation and 
thereby you will share your spiritual treasures The knowledge that 
you have this reservation creates a barrier between you and me. 


(P.C.) Do you think that because of what you call the mental 
reservation, the work that one could accomplish would suffer? 


(G.) I am sure. You would not be half as useful as you would be 
without the reservation. The reservation means that you belong to a 
different and a higher species, and you make yourself unaccessible to 
others. 

(P.C.) A barrier would be my Western way of living? 

(G.) No, that can be immediately broken. 

(P.C.) Would you be really happy if we stayed at home? 


(G.) I cannot say that. But I will certainly say that I have never 
been able to understand your going out of America. Is there nothing 


to do there? 


(P.C.) Even in America there is enough scope for educational 
work. 


(G.) That is a fatal confession. You are not a superfluity there. But 
for the curious position your Church has taken you would not be here. 


(P.C.) I have come because the Indian women need medical care 
to a greater extent than American women do. But coupled with that I 
have a desire to share my Christian heritage. 

(G.) That is exactly the position I have been trying to counter. You 
have already said that there may be a better way. 

(P.C.) No, I meant to say that there may be a better way fifty years 
hence. 

(G.) Well we were talking of the present, and you said there might 
be a better way. 

(P.C.) No, there is no better way today than the one I am 
following. 


(G.) That is what I say is assuming too much. You have not 
examined all religious beliefs. But even if you had, you may not 
claim infallibility. You assume knowledge of all people, which you 
can do only if you were God. I want you to understand that you are 
labouring under a double fallacy: That what you think is best for you 
is really so; and that what you regard as the best for you is the best for 
the whole world. It is an assumption of omniscience and infallibility. I 
plead for a little humility.— 


Gandhiji had a discussion with C. F. Andrews who had just returned 
from a visit to New Zealand, Fiji and Australia. He wanted to know 
Gandhiji’s reaction to the attitude of the missionaries vis-a-vis Harijan 
uplift. The discussion was reported in the Harijan of November 28,1936. 
It also deserves to be reproduced at some length: 

Gandhiji: Their behaviour has been as bad as that of the rest who 
are in the field to add to their numbers. What pains one is their frantic 
attempt to exploit the weakness of Harijans. If they said, ‘Hinduism is 
a diabolical religion, come to us’, I should understand. But they 
dangle earthly paradises in front of them and make promises to them 
which they can never keep. When in Bangalore— a deputation of 
Christians came with a number of resolutions which they thought 
would please me. I said to them: ‘This is no matter for bargain. You 
must say definitely that this is a matter to be settled by the Hindus 
themselves. Where is the sense of talking of a sudden awakening of 
spiritual hunger among the untouchables and then trying to exploit a 
particular situation?... It is absurd for a single individual to talk of 
taking all the Harijans with himself. Are they all bricks that they 
could be moved from one structure to another? If the Christian 
missions here want to play the game, and for that matter Mussalmans 
and others, they should have no such idea as that of adding to their 
ranks whilst a great reform in Hinduism is going on.’ 


C.F.A.: Let me ask one question. I said in Australia that all the 
talk of Dr. Ambedkar and his followers was not in terms of religion, 
and I said also that it was cruelty to bargain with unsophisticated 
people like the Harijans as they are in most parts of India. Then came 
the London Missionary Society’s statement that the Ezhavas— in 
Travancore had asked for Christian instruction. I said then that the 
Ezhavas were quite enlightened and if they had really asked to be 
instructed in Christianity, it would be, an entirely different matter. 
Was I right? 


Gandhiji: I do not think so. Whilst there are individual Ezhavas 
who are doctors and barristers and so on, the vast majority of them 
are just the same as the Harijans elsewhere. I can assure you that no 
one representing the body of Ezhavas could have asked for Christian 
instruction. You should ascertain the facts from our principal workers 
there. 


C.E.A: I see what you mean. Only I wanted to say that the Eondon 
Missionary Society was a liberal body and would not make an 
irresponsible statement. 


Gandhiji: But they at the centre cannot know, as the Parliament 
cannot know the truth of what is happening in India. 


C.E.A: But that apart, I should like to discuss the fundamental 
position with you. What would you say to a man who after 
considerable thought and prayer said that he could not have his peace 
and salvation except by becoming a Christian? 


Gandhiji: I would say that if a non-Christian, say a Hindu, came 
to a Christian and made that statement, he should ask him to become 
a good Hindu rather than find goodness in change of faith. 


C.E.A: I cannot go this whole length with you, though you know 
my own position. I discarded the position that there was no salvation 
except through Christ long ago. But suppose the Oxford Group 
Movement changed the life of your son, and he felt like being 
converted, what would you say? 



Gandhiji: I would say that the Oxford Group may change the lives 
of as many as they like, but not their religion. They can draw their 
attention to the best in their respective religions and change their lives 
by asking them to live according to them. There came to me a man, 
the son of Brahmin parents, who said his reading of your book had 
led him to embrace Christianity... I said to him that you had never 
through your books asked Indians to take up the Bible and embrace 
Christianity and that he misread your book - unless of course your 
position is like that of the late Maulana Mohamed Ali, viz., that a 
believing Mussalman, however bad his life, is better than a good 
Hindu. 


C.F.A: I do not accept Maulana Mohamed Ali’s position at all. 
But I do say that if a person really needs a change of faith I should 
not stand in his way. 


Gandhiji: But don’t you see that you do not even give him a 
chance? You do not even cross-examine him. Suppose a Christian 
came to me and said he was captivated by a reading of the Bhagavata 
and wanted to declare himself a Hindu, I should say to him, ‘Now 
what the Bhagavata offers the Bible also offers. You have not yet 
made the attempt to find it out. Make the attempt and be a good 
Christian.’ 


C.F.A: I don’t know. If someone earnestly says, that he will 
become a good Christian, I should say, ‘You may become one’, 
though you know that I have in my own life strongly dissuaded ardent 
enthusiasts who came to me. I said to them, ‘Certainly not on my 
account will you do anything of the kind.’ But human nature does 
require a concrete faith. 



Gandhiji: If a person wants to believe in the Bible let him say so, 
but why should he disregard his own religion? This proselytization 
will mean no peace in the world. Religion is a very personal matter. 
We should by living the life according to our own light, share the best 
with one another, thus adding to the sum total of human effort to 
reach God.”— 


Mahadev Desai recorded in the Harijan dated December 5, 1936 a 
discussion which Mr. Basil Mathew had with Gandhiji about Missionary 
Methods. “That is a question to which I have given great thought,” said 
Gandhiji, “and I am convinced that, if Christian Missions will sincerely 
play the game, no matter what may be their policy under normal 
circumstances, they must withdraw from the indecent competition to 
convert the Harijans. Whatever the Archbishop of Canterbury and others 
may say, what is done here in India in the name of Christianity is wholly 
different from what they say. There are others in the field also, but as a 
devotee of truth I say that, if there is any difference between their methods, 
it is one of degree and not of kind. I know of representatives of different 
religions standing on the same platform and vying with one another to 
catch the Harijan ear. To dignify this movement with the name of spiritual 
hunger is a travesty of truth. Arguing on the highest plane I said to Dr. 
Mott, if they wanted to convert Harijans, had they not better begin to 
convert me? I am a trifle more intelligent than they, and therefore more 
receptive to the influences of reason that could be brought to bear upon 
me. But to approach the Pulayas and Pariahs with their palsied hands and 
paralysed intelligence is no Christianity. No, whilst our reform movement 
is going on, all religious-minded people should say: Rather than obstruct 
their work, let us support them in their work.”— 


Mr. Mathew asked, “Do not the roots of the reform movement go back 
to the missionary movement? Did not the missionaries wake up the 
reformers and make a certain amount of stir among the untouchables?” 
Gandhiji replied, “I do not think that the missionary movement was 


responsible for a stirring of the right kind. I agree that it stung the 
reformers to the quick and awakened them to their sense of duty.” Mr. 
Mathew persisted, “You have spoken of some good work being done by 
missionaries. Should not we go on with it?” Gandhiji observed, “Oh, Yes. 
Do, by all means. But give up what makes you objects of suspicion and 
demoralizes us also. We go to your hospitals with the mercenary motive of 
having an operation performed, but with no object of responding to what is 
at the back of your mind, even as our children do when they go to Bible 
classes in their colleges and then laugh at what they read there. I tell you 
our conversation at home about these missionary colleges is not at all 
edifying. Why then spoil your good work with other motives?”— 


Finally, Mr. Mathew asked, “Where do you find the seat of authority?” 
Gandhiji said, “It lies here (pointing to his breast). I exercise my judgment 
about every scripture, including the Gita. I cannot let a scriptural text 
supersede my reason. Whilst I believe that the principal books are inspired, 
they suffer from a process of double distillation. Firstly they come through 
a human prophet, and then through the interpreters. Nothing in them 
comes from God directly. Matthew may give one version of one text and 
John may give another. I cannot surrender my reason whilst I subscribe to 
divine revelation.”— 


The Missionary Supremo, John R. Mott, who had been receiving 
reports about Gandhiji’s uncompromising stand against conversion under 
any circumstances, thought that it was time he himself sounded the 
Mahatma once again. So he paid his second visit to Sevagram and had 
long talks with Gandhiji on November 13-14, 1936. Parts of the 
conversation were reported in the Harijan dated December 9,1936. 


Mott started by praising Gandhiji for his effort to raise the Harijans, 
discussed the Yervada Pact and then broached the subject dear to his own 
heart, “The importance of this movement,” he said, “lies beyond the 


frontiers of India, and yet there are few subjects on which there is more 
confusion of thought. Take for instance the missionaries and missionary 
societies. They are not of one mind. It is highly desirable that we become 
of one mind and find out how far we can help and not hinder. I am the 
Chairman of the International Missionary Council which combines 300 
missionary societies in the world. I have on my desk the reports of these 
societies; and I can say that their interest in the untouchables is deepening. 
I should be interested if you would feel free to tell us where, if anywhere, 
the missionaries have gone along wrong lines. Their desire is to help and 
not to hinder.” 


Gandhiji replied, “I cannot help saying that the activities of the 
missionaries have hurt me. They with the Mussulmans and Sikhs came 
forward as soon as Dr. Ambedkar threw the bombshell,— and they gave it 
an importance out of all proportions to the weight it carried, and then 
ensured a rivalry between these organisations. I could understand the 
Muslim organisations doing this, as Hindus and Muslims have been 
quarrelling. The Sikh intervention is an enigma. But the Christian mission 
claims to be a purely spiritual effort. It hurt me to find Christian bodies 
vying with Muslims and Sikhs in trying to add to the numbers of their fold. 
It seemed to me an ugly performance and a travesty of religion. They even 
proceeded to enter into secret conclaves with Dr. Ambedkar. I should have 
understood and appreciated your prayers for the Harijans but instead you 
made an appeal to those who had not even the mind and intelligence to 
understand what you talked; they have certainly not the intelligence to 
distinguish between Jesus and Mohammed and Nanak and so on.”— 


Mott asked, “But must we not serve them?” Gandhiji said, “Of course, 
you will, but not making conversion the price of your service.”— Mott 
moved to the patent Christian position. He quoted Christ about “Preach 
and Teach” and said, “The whole Christian religion is the religion of 
sharing our life, and how can we share without supplementing our lives 
with words.” Gandhiji replied, “Then what they are doing in Travancore is 


correct? There may be difference of degree in what you say and what they 
are doing, but there is no difference of quality. If you must share it with the 
Harijans, why don’t you share it with Thakkarbapa and Mahadev? Why 
should you go to the untouchables and try to exploit this upheaval? Why 
not come to us instead?”— 


Mott came out with more quotations from Jesus. But C. F. Andrews, 
who was present, sensed Gandhiji’s impatience and suggested a 
compromise. Gandhiji said. “I do not think it is a matter which admits of 
any compromise at all. It is a deeply religious problem and each should do 
what he likes. If your conscience tells you that the present effort is your 
mission, you need not give any quarter to Hindu reformers. I can simply 
state my belief that what the missionaries are doing today does not show 
spirituality.”— 


The talks were resumed next day. Mott made a typically American 
offer. “If money is to be given to India,” he said, “in what ways can it be 
wisely given without causing any harm? Will money be of any value?” 
Gandhiji replied, “No, when money is given it can only do harm. It has to 
be earned when it is required. I am convinced that the American and 
British money which has been voted for missionary societies has done 
more harm than good. You cannot serve God and mammon both. And my 
fear is that mammon has been sent to serve India and God has remained 
behind with the result He will one day have his vengeance. When the 
American says, T will serve you through money’, I dread him. I simply 
say to him, ‘Send us your engineers not to earn money but to give us the 
benefit of their scientific knowledge.’”— 


Finally, Mott presented his pet theory that “money is stored-up 
personality” and that “Christ is able to dominate both the money and the 
machine.” Gandhiji observed, “I have made the distinction between money 
given and money earned. If an American says he wants to serve India, and 


you packed him off here, I should say we had not earned his services... It 
is my certain conviction that money plays the least part in matters of 
spirit.”— 


The Church Times of London published, on October 16, 1936, the 
news of a meeting of Christian denominations held in that city. The 
meeting was presided over by the Archbishop of Canterbury. The main 
speaker was Dr. J. W. Pickett, Bishop of a Methodist Episcopal Church in 
the U.S.A. He was the author of a book, Christian Mass Movements in 
India, which he said he had written after making studies “on the spot.” He 
reported that “four and a half millions of the depressed classes in India 
have become disciples of our Lord” and that “even Brahmins have testified 
- albeit reluctantly - to the power of Christianity to transform the 
characters and lives of people whom they once thought incapable of 
religious feelings, and to whom they denied the right of entrance to 
temples of Hinduism.” According to him, “900,000 people now profess the 
Christian faith” in the Telegu area and “a surprisingly high proportion of 
them speak of a sense of mystical union with God.” He quoted “their 
Hindu neighbours” who, according to him, had “admitted that the religion 
of Jesus Christ had lifted them to a new standard of cleanliness of person 
and home, and made them a trustworthy people.” As a result, he said, 
“high-caste people are now coming into the church, literally by dozens of 
hundreds, in areas where this transformation of life has occurred among 
the untouchables.” He described this “mass movement” as a “miracle, one 
of the great miracles of Christian history.”— 


Gandhiji reproduced the news in the Harijan dated December 19, 1936 
and made his own comment on the ‘miracle’. “I have rarely seen,” he said, 
“so much exaggeration in so little space. A reader ignorant of conditions in 
India would conclude that the figures relate to the conversions due to the 
movement led by Dr. Ambedkar. I am sure Dr. Pickett could not have 
made any such claim. He had in mind the figures to date commencing 
from the establishment of the first church in India hundreds of years ago. 


But the figures are irrelevant to the general claim said to have been 
advanced by the Bishop. Where are the ‘multitudes in India who marvel’ 
at the transformation in the lives of ‘four and a half millions of the 
depressed classes’? I am one of the multitudes having practically travelled 
more than half a dozen times all over India and have not seen any 
transformation on the scale described by Dr. Pickett, and certainly none of 
recent date. I have had the privilege of addressing meetings of Indian 
Christians who have appeared to me to be no better than their fellows. 
Indeed, the taint of untouchability persists in spite of the nominal change 
of faith so far as the social status is concerned... I should like to meet the 
Brahmins ‘who have testified... to the power of Christianity to transform 
the characters and lives of people whom they once thought incapable of 
religious feeling’... I must pass by the other generalizations. But I should 
like to know the hundreds of high caste Hindus who ‘are now coming into 
the church in areas where this transformation of life has occurred among 
the untouchables’. If all the astounding statements Dr. Pickett has 
propounded can be substantiated, truly it is ‘one of the greatest miracles of 
Christian history’, nay, of the history of man.”— 


At the same time Gandhiji asked, “But do miracles need an oratorical 
demonstration? Should we in India miss such a grand miracle? Should we 
remain untouched by it?” Stating that “Miracles are their own 
demonstration”, he drew the attention of the missionaries to the “miracle 
in Tranvancore” where 2000 temples had been opened to the Harijans who 
“would enter them in their hundreds without let or hindrance from the 
most orthodox Hindus.” He concluded that “the learned Bishop” had made 
a caricature of Christianity which “hurts me.”— 


The story-tellers, however, did not stop at making tall claims. In the 
Harijan dated December 26, 1936, Gandhiji had to comment on a 
pamphlet published by the Church Missionary Society of England. It had 
given a call for an “emergency fund of £ 25,000 to enable extra grants to 
be made during the next five years to those areas where this big movement 


is taking place.” The Society appealed to the “whole church to support this 
effort” for the “sake of the hundreds of thousands who are dimly groping 
after Christ and who are finding spiritual life and social uplift through the 
Gospel.”— Some of the claims made by Dr. Pickett were repeated in the 
pamphlet which had “discovered” that “the campaign for the removal of 
untouchability” led by Gandhiji “had signally failed because he clung to 
the Hindu system which has been the cause of the trouble.” More 
important, the future prospects for Christianity in certain areas were seen 
as very promising. It was stated that the Bishop of Dornakal in the Telegu 
region “reckons that about a million people in his diocese are moving 
Christward” and among the Ezhavas “850,000 have waited on the Bishop 
in Travancore, because they are anxious that their entire community should 
become Christians.”— 


Gandhiji commented that he was “utterly unconscious of ‘signal 
failure’”, and that he who had “travelled in Telegu areas often enough” had 
“never heard of forty thousand Harijans or any figure near it asking for 
baptism.”— As for the Ezhavas, he observed, “The papers report them to 
have congratulated the Maharaja on his Proclamation.”— He concluded, 
“There is no other way to deal with exaggerations of which the appeal is 
full than by living them down and by the truth working through the lives 
of the reformers.”— 


Professor Krzenski, according to whom “Catholicism was the only true 
religion”, had a discussion with Gandhiji on January 2, 1937. The dialogue 
was reported in the Harijan of January 16. Gandhiji made use of Socratic 
wit to disarm him completely: 

Gandhiji: Do you therefore say that other religions are untrue? 

Krzenski: If others are convinced that their, religions are true they 
are saved. 


Gandhiji: Therefore you will say that everyone would be saved 
even through untruth. For you say that if a man really and sincerely 
believes in what is as a matter of fact untruth he is saved. Would you 
not also hold, therefore, that your own way may be untrue but that 
you are convinced that it is true and therefore you will be saved?— 

Krzenski’s claim that he had studied and compared all religions and 
found his own to be the best, did not impress Gandhiji for whom religion 
was not a matter of “intellectual examination.” He told the professor that 
“your position is arrogant.” The professor then “switched on to the next 
question, viz., that of fighting materialism.” Gandhiji said, “It is no use 
trying to fight these forces without giving up the idea of conversion, which 
I assure you is the deadliest poison which ever sapped the fountain of 
truths— 


Before leaving, the professor said, “But I have great respect for you.” 
Gandhiji observed, “Not enough. If I were to join the Catholic Church you 
would have greater respect for me.” Krzenski agreed and said that in that 
case “you would be as great as St. Francis?” Gandhiji winked, “But not 
otherwise? A Hindu cannot be a St. Francis? Poor Hindu?” 


Krzenski wanted to take a photograph of Gandhiji. He was dissuaded 
by Gandhiji’s quick remark, “No, surely you don’t care for materialism! 
And it is all materialism, isn’t it?”— 


On January 19, 1937 Gandhiji gave an interview to two Bishops and 
some other Christians at Kottayam. He had gone there to extend his 
support to the Maharaja’s proclamation on temple-entry for Harijans. 
Bishop Moore said he was “ready to remove misunderstandings” about 
missionary work in Travancore which had disturbed Gandhiji. Gandhiji 
referred him to Bishop Pickett’s claim about conversions in the Telegu 
country and Travancore, and the Church Missionary Society’s call for 
funds. Moore pleaded ignorance about the claim and the collection and 


agreed that exaggerated reports should not be circulated. He also stated 
that “during the last year they could record 530 persons as having been 
baptised into the Anglican faith.” But Bishop Abraham asserted that “there 
was a tremendous awakening among even the middle class savarnas” in 
Telegu areas and that “he had addressed meetings which were attended by 
many of the high-caste people.” Gandhiji said, “That means nothing. To 
say that hundreds attended meetings addressed by Christian preachers is 
very different from saying that hundreds have accepted the message of 
Jesus and from making an appeal for money in anticipation of people 
becoming Christians in large numbers.” The Christians wanted to know if 
“Mr. Gandhi had any objection to their stimulating and responding to the 
spiritual hunger of the people.” Gandhiji said that “the matter was quite 
irrelevant to the discussion which was entirely about extravagant 
statements made by responsible people.”— 


On the same day he addressed a public meeting in the town. “In the 
estimation of those who so believe,” he said, “this Proclamation is an act 
which it would be their duty to resist and to show to the Maharaja that by 
issuing the Proclamation of liberation he is simply prolonging the agony 
and giving a new lease of life to a body of superstitions which were bound 
to die their natural death.” He had the Christian missionaries and their 
Hindu mouthpieces in mind. “I know,” he continued, “that many 
Christians throughout the length and breadth of India do not regard 
Hinduism as a fraud upon humanity or a body of bad usages and 
superstitions. A religion which has produced Ramakrishna, Chaitanya, 
Shankar and Vivekananda cannot be a body of superstitions.” After 
explaining the “essence of Hinduism” with the help of “one incredibly 
simple mantra of the Ishopanishad”—, he suggested to “my Christian and 
Mussalman friends that they will find nothing more in their scriptures.”— 


He declared that he had himself been fighting against whatever 
corruptions had crept into Hinduism and requested all non-Hindus not to 
exploit the temporary weaknesses of this great religion. “I felt,” he said. 


“that I could not do justice to this great meeting, especially a meeting that 
is held in a Christian stronghold, unless I was prepared to utter a truth I 
held dear as life itself. We all consciously or unconsciously find and strive 
for peace on earth and goodwill amongst mankind. I am convinced that we 
shall find neither peace nor goodwill among men and women through 
strife among men of different religions, through disputation among them. 
We shall find truth and peace and goodwill if we approach the humblest of 
mankind in a prayful spirit. Anyway that is my humble appeal to 
Christians who may be present in this great meeting... As I have said so 
often elsewhere, whilst the hand that traced the signature on the 
Proclamation was that of the Maharaja, the spirit that moved him to do so 
as that of God.”— 


On March 5, 1937 Gandhiji had a discussion with R. R. Keithahn, an 
American missionary, about the equality of all religions. The missionary 
was “not quite sure what was at the back of Gandhiji’s mind when he said 
that all religions were not only true but equal.” He felt that “scientifically it 
was hardly correct to say that all religions are equal.” But he admitted that 
“it is no use comparing religions” and that “they were different ways.”— 
Gandhiji said, “You are right when you say that it is impossible to compare 
them. But the deduction from it is that they are equal. All men are born 
free and equal, but one is much stronger or weaker than another physically 
and mentally. Therefore superficially there is no equality between the two. 
But there is an essential equality: in our nakedness. God is not going to 
think of me as Gandhi and you as Keithahn... inherently we are equal. The 
differences of race and skin and of mind and body and of climate and 
nation are transitory. In the same way essentially all religions are equal... 
Where is the use of scanning details and holding a religion to ridicule? 
Take the very first chapter of Genesis or of Matthew. We read a long 
pedigree and then at the end we are told that Jesus was born of a virgin. 
You come up against a blind wall. But I must read it all with the eye of a 
Christian.”^ 


A Roman Catholic Father came to see Gandhiji on March 5, 1937 and 
proposed that “if Hinduism became monotheistic, Christianity and 
Hinduism can serve India in cooperation.” Gandhiji replied, “I would love 
to see the cooperation happen, but it cannot if the present-day Christian 
missions persist in holding up Hinduism to ridicule and saying that no one 
can go to Heaven unless he renounces and denounces Hinduism... not so 
long as there is militant and ‘muscular’ Christianity.”— The Father 
persisted, “But if Indians begin to believe in one God and give up idolatry, 
don’t you think the whole difficulty will be solved?” Gandhiji put a 
counter question to him, “Will the Christians be satisfied? Are they all 
united?” The Father admitted that the Christian sects knew no unity. “Then 
you are asking,” continued Gandhiji, “a theoretical question. And may I 
ask you, is there any amalgamation between Islam and Christianity, though 
both are said to believe in one God? If these two have not amalgamated, 
there is less hope of amalgamation of Christians and Hindus along lines 
you suggest. I have my own solution, but in the first instance I dispute the 
description that Hindus believe in many gods and are idolaters... The 
whole mischief is created by the English rendering of the word deva or 
devata for which you have not found a better term than ‘god’. But God is 
Ishwara, Devadhideva, God of Gods. So you see it is the word ‘god’ used 
to describe different divine beings, that has given rise to such confusion. I 
believe that I am a thorough Hindu but I never believe in many Gods.” 


Next, Gandhiji proceeded to defend idol-worship. “As for idol- 
worship,” he said, “you cannot do without it in some form or other. Why 
does a Mussalman give his life for defending a mosque which he calls a 
house of God? And why does a Christian go to a Church and when he is 
required to take an oath swear by the Bible? Not that I see any objection to 
it. And what is it if not idolatry to give untold riches for building mosques 
and tombs? And what do the Roman Catholics do when they kneel before 
Virgin Mary and before saints - quite imaginary figures in stone or painted 
on canvas or glass?” The Father made a distinction between ‘veneration’ 
and ‘worship’. “When I worship God,” he said, “I acknowledge Him as 
creator and greater than any human being.” Gandhiji observed, “Even so, it 
is not the stone we worship but it is God we worship in images of stone or 


metal however crude they may be.”— The Father said, “But the villagers 
worship stones as God.” Gandhiji explained, “No, I tell you they do not 
worship anything that is less than God. When you kneel before Virgin 
Mary and ask for her intercession, what do you do? You ask to establish 
contact with God through a stone image. I can understand your asking for 
the Virgin’s intercession. Why are Mussalmans filled with awe and 
exultation when they enter a mosque? Why is not the whole universe a 
mosque?... But I understand and sympathise with the Muslims. It is their 
way of approach to God. The Hindus have their own way of approach to 
the same Eternal Being. Our media of approach are different, but that does 
not make Him different.”— 


The Father now came to the patent Christian position. “But the 
Catholics believe,” he said, “that God revealed to them the true way.” 
Gandhiji replied, “But why do you say that the will of God is expressed 
only in one book called the Bible and not in others? Why do you 
circumscribe the power of God?” The Father brought in Jesus who 
“proved that he had received the word of God through miracles.” Gandhiji 
pointed out, “But that is Mahomed’s claim too. If you accept Christian 
testimony you must accept Muslim testimony and Hindu testimony too.” 
The Father dropped the subject and became curious about the Congress 
“veering round Communism.”— Gandhiji advised him not to confuse with 
Communism the Congress campaign against inequality. 


Finally, the Father expressed his fear of Hindus coming to power in 
free India. “When Hinduism comes to power,” he asked, “will it not make 
a united front against Christianity? There are all the signs of Hinduism 
coming to power. And if it happens here, as it is happening in Spain,— 
Indian Christians will be despised and persecuted and swept off.” Gandhiji 
told him that his fears were imaginary. “There is no such thing,” said 
Gandhiji, “as Hindu rule, there will be no such thing... Fet me tell you that 
no Hindu in his wildest imagination ever thought of this... Hinduism was 
well able to destroy the first Christians that came. Why did it not do 


anything of the kind? Travancore is a brilliant example of toleration. I was 
asked while I was there to see the most ancient church where St. Thomas 
is said to have planted the first cross. Why should he have been allowed to 
plant it?” The Father “revealed his bugbear - Arya Samaj.” Gandhiji said, 
“I agree that the Arya Samaj represents a type of militant Hinduism, but 
they never believed in the cult of the sword. The worst thing they are 
capable of is to ask you to become a Hindu if you went and spoke on their 
platform!”— 


A distinguished American clergyman. Dr. Crane, met Gandhiji on 
February 25, 1937 and asked him various questions. The interview was 
published in the Harijan dated March 6, 1937. The first question was 
about Gandhiji’s attitude to Christianity. “For a time,” said Gandhiji, “I 
struggled with the question, ‘which was the true religion out of those I 
know?’ But ultimately I came to the deliberate conviction that there was 
no such thing as only one true religion, every other being false. There is no 
religion that is absolutely perfect. All are equally imperfect or more or less 
perfect, hence the conclusion that Christianity is as good and true as my 
own religion... Therefore I am not interested in weaning you from 
Christianity and making you a Hindu, and I would not relish your designs 
upon me, if you had any, to convert me to Christianity: I would also 
dispute your claim that Christianity is the only true religion. It is also a 
true religion, a noble religion, and along with other religions it has 
contributed to raise the moral height of mankind. But it has yet to make a 
greater contribution. After all what are 2,000 years in the life of a religion? 
Just now Christianity comes to yearning mankind in a tainted form. Fancy 
Bishops supporting slaughter in the name of Christianity.”— 


Dr. Crane asked, “But, when you say that all religions are true, what do 
you do when there are conflicting counsels?” Gandhiji replied, “I have no 
difficulty in hitting upon the truth, because I go by certain fundamental 
maxims. Truth is superior to everything and I reject what conflicts with it. 
Similarly that which is in conflict with nonviolence should be rejected. 


And on matters which can be reasoned out, that which conflicts with 
Reason must also be rejected... Well then, given these three criteria, I can 
have no difficulty in examining all claims made on behalf of religion. Thus 
to believe that Jesus is the only begotton son of God is to me against 
Reason, for God can’t marry and beget children. The word ‘son’ there can 
only be used in a figurative sense. In that sense everyone who stands in the 
position of Jesus is a begotten son of God. If a man is spiritually miles 
ahead of us we may say that he is in a special sense the son of God, though 
we are all children of God.”— 


The next question from the clergyman was, “Then you will recognize 
degrees of divinity. Would you not say that Jesus was the most divine?” 
Gandhiji said, “No, for the simple reason that we have no data. 
Historically we have more data about Mahomed than anyone else because 
he was more recent in time. For Jesus there are less data available, no 
judge should shoulder the burden of sifting all the evidence, if only for the 
reason that it requires a highly spiritual person to gauge the degree of 
divinity of the subjects he examines.”— 


The clergyman sought his view about conversion. “I strongly resent,” 
said Gandhiji, “these overtures to utterly ignorant men. I can perhaps 
understand overtures made to me, as indeed they are being made. For they 
can reason with me and I can reason with them. But I certainly resent the 
overtures made to Harijans. When a Christian preacher goes and says to a 
Harijan that Jesus was the only begotten son of God, he will give him a 
blank stare. Then he holds out all kinds of inducements which debase 
Christianity.”— 


Dr. Crane asked him if he regarded Hinduism as a synthesis of all 
religions. “Yes,” replied Gandhi, “if you will. But I would call that 
synthesis Hinduism, and for you the synthesis will be Christianity. If I did 
not do so, you would always be patronizing me, as many Christians do 


now, saying, ‘How nice it would be if Gandhi accepted Christianity’, and 
Muslims would be doing the same, saying, ‘How nice it would be if 
Gandhi accepted Islam!’ That immediately puts a barrier between you and 


Finally, there was a discussion about what Dr. Crane called the caste 
system. Gandhiji said, “Hinduism does not believe in caste. I would 
obliterate it at once. But I believe in varnadharma, which is the law of life. 
I believe that some people are bom to teach and some to defend and some 
to engage in trade and agriculture and some to do manual labour, so much 
so that these occupations become hereditary. The law of varna is nothing 
but the law of conservation of energy. Why should my son not be a 
scavenger if I am one?” Crane was surprised and exclaimed, “Indeed? Do 
you go so far?” Gandhiji replied, “I do, because I hold a scavenger’s 
profession in no way inferior to a clergyman’s... For a scavenger is as 
worthy of his hire as a lawyer or your President. That, according to me, is 
Hinduism. There is no better communism on earth, and I have illustrated it 
with one verse from the Upanishads which means: God pervades all - 
animate and inanimate. Therefore renounce all and dedicate it to God and 
then live. The right of living is thus derived from renunciation. It does not 
say, ‘When all do their part of the work I too will do it.’ It says, ‘Don’t 
bother about others, do your job first and leave the rest to Him.’ 
Varnadharma acts even as the law of gravitation. I cannot cancel it or its 
working by trying to jump higher day by day till gravitation ceases to 
work. That effort will be vain. So is the effort to jump over one another. 
The law of varna is the antithesis of competition which kills.”— 


Someone wrote a long letter to Gandhiji. Extracts from it were 
published in the Harijan of March 6, 1937. The letter said, “Your attitude 
towards religious conversion and particularly the hope you entertain for 
the Depressed Classes within the fold of Hinduism, overlooks the 
prevalent practices of Hinduism as it exists in India today...” He also 
pointed out that “any religion is judged by its fruits.” Hindu temples and 


mutts, he continued, collected a lot of money from the devotees, but 
instead of being used for rendering service it was used for the “princely 
lives” led by the heads of mutts. Religious heads, Swamis and gurus were 
practising “popery in its worst days.” Temples and mutts had become 
“weapons of superstition and oppression.” On the other hand, “Bishops 
and priests of Christian religion ... render humanitarian service unequalled 
by any other class of human beings who follow any other faith or no faith, 
and are approachable to all people.”— 


Gandhiji commented, “It is good to see ourselves as others see us... 
The grave limitations of Hinduism as it is today must be admitted... 
Humanitarian work done by Christian missions must also be admitted. But 
these admissions of mine must not be interpreted to mean endorsement of 
the deductions of the writer.” The writer had admitted the “sublimity of 
Hinduism as expounded by Vivekananda and Radha-krishnan.” Gandhiji 
pointed out that this admission “should have led to his discovery of its 
percolation down to the masses.” He said, “I make bold to say that in spite 
of the crudeness which one sees among the villagers, class considered, in 
all that is good in human nature they compare favourably with any 
villagers in the world. This testimony is borne out by the majority of 
travellers who from the times of Huen Tsang down to the present times 
have recorded their impressions. The innate culture that the villagers of 
India show, the art which one sees in the homes of the poor, the restraint 
with which the villagers conduct themselves, are surely due to the religion 
that has bound them together since time immemorial.”— 


Coming to service, Gandhiji wrote, “In his zeal to belittle Hinduism, 
the writer ignores the broad fact that Hinduism has produced a race of 
reformers who have successfully combated prejudices, superstitions and 
abuses. Without any drum-beating Hinduism has devised a system of relief 
of the poor which has been the envy of many foreign admirers... It is not 
the Indian habit to advertise charities through printed reports and the like. 
But he who runs may see the free kitchens and free medical relief given 


along indigenous lines.” Missionary service institutions, on the other hand, 
“are established with a view to weaning Indians from their ancestral faith 
even as expounded by Vivekananda and Radha-krishnan.”— 


In his talk with Mr. John Mott and some other missionaries Gandhiji 
has compared the Harijans with the cow so far as understanding of 
Christian theology was concerned. The missionaries made much of it and 
went about propagating that Gandhiji had insulted the Harijans. He had 
explained in the Harijan of January 9, 1937 what he meant by the 
comparison.— But that did not stop the missionary campaign. So he 
returned to the theme in the Harijan of March 13, 1937. “This 
comparison,” he wrote, “shocked my friends so much that the shock has 
travelled to America and I have begun to receive letters from America 
telling me how the comparison is being used to discredit me and my claim 
to serve Harijans. The critics seem to say, ‘You can have little regard for 
Harijans if you compare them to the cow!’” 


Gandhiji refused to be browbeaten and did not withdraw the 
comparison. He explained his simile once again and went farther. “Let my 
critics and credulous friends understand,” he said, “that apart from the 
comparison, I stand on unassailable ground when I assert that it is a 
travesty of religion to seek to uproot from the Harijans’ simple minds such 
faith as they have in their ancestral religion and to transfer their allegiance 
to another, even though that other may be as good as and equal to the 
original in quality. Though all soils have the same predominant 
characteristics, we know that the same seeds do not fare equally well in all 
soils... But my fear is that though Christian friends nowadays do not say 
or admit that Hindu religion is untrue, they must harbour in their breasts 
the belief that Hinduism is an error and that Christianity as they believe it 
is the only true religion. Without some such thing it is not possible to 
understand, much less to appreciate, the C.M.S.— appeal from which I 
reproduced in these columns some revealing extracts the other day. One 
could understand the attack on untouchability and many other errors that 


have crept into Hindu life. And if they would help us to get rid of the 
admitted abuses and purify our religion, they would do helpful 
constructive work which would be gratefully accepted. But so far as one 
can understand the present effort, it is to uproot Hinduism from the very 
foundation and replace it by another faith. If the Christian world entertains 
that opinion about the Hindu house, ‘Parliament of Religions’ and 
‘International Fellowship’ are empty phrases. For both the terms 
presuppose equality of status, a common platform. There cannot be a 
common platform as between inferiors and superiors, or the enlightened 
and the unenlightened, the regenerate and the unregenerate, the high-born 
and the lowborn, the caste man and the outcaste. My comparison may be 
defective, may even sound offensive. My reasoning may be unsound. But 
my proposition stands.”— 


A joint manifesto, ‘Our Duty to the Depressed and Backward Classes’, 
was issued by “fourteen highly educated Indian Christians occupying 
important positions.” It was published in full in the Harijan dated April 3, 
1937, though Gandhiji “was disinclined to publish it in the Harijan, as 
after having read it more than once I could not bring myself to say 
anything in its favour and I felt a critical review of it might serve no 
purpose.” He thought it was an “unfortunate document.” But as his 
criticism was “expected and will be welcomed”, he decided to tender it. 
“They seem to have fallen between two stools,” wrote Gandhiji, “in their 
attempt to sit on both. They have tried to reconcile the irreconcilable. If 
one section of Christians has been aggressively open and militant, the 
other represented by the authors of the manifesto is courteously 
patronising. They would not be aggressive for the sake of expedience. The 
purpose of the manifesto is not to condemn unequivocally the method of 
converting the illiterate and the ignorant but to assert the right of preaching 
the Gospel to the millions of Harijans.”— 


Para 7 of the manifesto had proclaimed, “Men and women individually 
and in family or village groups will continue to seek fellowship of the 


Christian Church. That is the real movement of the Spirit of God. And no 
power on earth can stem that tide. It will be the duty of the Christian 
Church in India to receive such, seekers after the truth as it is in Jesus 
Christ and provide for them instruction and spiritual nurture. The Church 
will cling to its right to receive such people into itself from whatever 
religious groups they may come.”— Gandhiji commented, “Men and 
women do not seek fellowship of the Christian Church. Poor Harijans are 
no better than the others. I wish they had spiritual hunger. Such as it is, 
they satisfy by visit to the temples, however crude they may be. When the 
missionary of another religion goes to them, he goes like any other vendor 
of goods. He has no special spiritual merit that will distinguish him from 
those to whom he goes. He, however, possesses material goods which he 
promises to those who will come to his fold. Then mark, the duty of the 
Christian Church in India turns into a right. Now when duty becomes a 
right, it ceases to be a duty... The duty of taking spiritual message is 
performed by the messenger becoming a fit vehicle by prayer and fasting. 


Conceived as a right it may easily become an imposition on unwilling 
parties.” Gandhiji saw the manifesto as “designed to allay the suspicion 
and soothe the ruffled feelings of Hindus.” But, in his opinion, it “fails to 
accomplish its purpose” and “leaves a bad taste in the mouth.” He 
concluded, “In the spiritual sphere, there is no such thing as right.”— 


Soon after Gandhiji made his comments on the manifesto, a missionary 
came to him seeking clarification. The discussion which Gandhiji had with 
him was published in the Harijan of April 17, 1937. “I wonder,” said the 
missionary, “if those who made the statement were thinking of anything in 
the nature of legal right. It is, I think, a moral right they claim here rather 
than a legal one.” Gandhiji replied, “My criticism would apply even if they 
had used the word ‘moral right’. But it is clear that they mean a legal right 
because for one thing there is no such thing as a moral right, and secondly 
because in the very next para of the manifesto, in which they have referred 
to the Karachi Resolution of Fundamental Rights, they make it clear that 


they mean by ‘right’ legal right. A moral right, if there is any such thing, 
does not need any asserting and defending.”— 


The missionary came to his next question. “You have objected to 
Christian propaganda,” he said, “on the ground that Harijans are illiterate 
and ignorant. What would you say of propaganda amongst non-Harijans?” 
Gandhiji replied, “I have the same objection because the vast mass of 
people of India do not understand the pros and cons of Christianity better 
than a cow. I use this simile in spite of the fact that it has been objected to. 
When I say that I do not understand logarithms any better than my cow, I 
do not mean any insult to my intelligence. In matters of theology, the non- 
Harijan masses can understand no better than the Harijans... Try to preach 
the principles of Christianity to my wife. She can understand them no 
better then my cow. I can, because of the training I have had.” 


The missionary proceeded further. He said, “But we do not preach 
theology. We simply talk of the life of Christ and tell them what a comfort 
His life and teaching have been to us. He has been our guide, we say and 
ask others also to accept Him as their guide.” Gandhiji observed, “Oh yes, 
you do say that. But when you say I must accept Jesus in preference to 
Ramakrishna Paramhamsa, you will have to, go into deep waters. That is 
why I say, let your life speak to us, even as the rose needs no speech but 
simply spreads its perfume.”— 


The missionary shifted his ground. “But then,” he said, “your objection 
is to the commercial aspect of Christian propaganda. Every true Christian 
will agree that no baits should be offered.” Gandhiji asked, “But what else 
is Christianity as it is preached nowadays?... Why should students 
attending Mission schools and colleges be compelled or even expected to 
attend Bible classes?”— The missionary protested, “That was the old way, 
not the modern way.” Gandhiji said, “I can cite to you any number of 
modem examples. Is not the Bishop of Dornakal a modem? And what else 


is his open letter to the Depressed Classes of India? It is full of baits.” The 
missionary moved from education to medicine and said, “As regards 
hospitals, I think philanthropy without the dynamic of some religious 
teaching will not do.” Gandhiji did not agree. “Then you commercialize 
you gift,” he said, “for at the back of your mind is the feeling that because 
of your service some day the recipient of the gift will accept Christ. Why 
should not your service be its own reward.”— 


The missionary shifted his ground once more and said, “But then you 
must judge Christianity by its best representatives and not the worst.” 
Gandhiji replied, “I am not judging Christianity as a religion. I am talking 
of the way Christianity is being propagated, and you cannot judge it by 
exceptions, as you cannot judge the British system of Government by 
some fine specimens of Englishmen. No, let us think of the bulk of your 
people who preach the Gospel. Do they spread the perfume of their lives? 
That is to me the sole criterion.” 


The missionary now wanted to “hear from you your attitude to the 
personality of Christ.” Gandhiji gave him his settled view that Christ was 
“a great teacher of humanity” and not “the only begotten son of God.”— 
The missionary was perplexed. “But don’t you believe,” he asked, “in the 
perfection of human nature, and don’t you believe that Jesus had attained 
perfection?” Gandhiji replied, “I believe in the perfectibility of human 
nature. Jesus came as near to perfection as possible. To say that he was 
perfect is to deny God’s superiority to man.” 


He anticipated the next assertion which the missionary was bound to 
make in order to prove that Jesus was perfect. “I do not need,” he said, 
“either the prophecies or miracles to establish Jesus’s greatness as a 
teacher. Nothing can be more miraculous than the three years of his 
ministry. There is no miracle in the story of the multitudes fed on a handful 
of loaves. A magician can create that illusion. But woe worth the day on 


which a magician would be hailed as the Saviour of humanity. As for Jesus 
raising the dead to life, well, I doubt if the men he raised were really 
dead... The laws of Nature are changeless, unchangeable, and there are no 
miracles in the sense of infringement or interruption of Nature’s laws.”— 


In the Harijan dated April 17, 1937 Gandhiji published a letter which 
he had received from P. 0. Phillip of the National Christian Council, 
complaining that Caste Hindus in Kerala were molesting Christians, 
particularly depressed class converts. He commented that he had received 
several other complaints of a similar nature. “The writers,” he said, “claim 
that (1) the acts are not isolated; (2) they are perpetrated with the 
knowledge of influential Caste Hindus; (3) Caste Hindus want to suppress, 
if possible, the progress of Christianity; (4) communal hatred is on the 
increase after the Temple Entry proclamation.”— He advised the 
complainants to approach the Harijan Sevak Sangh for investigation of all 
cases. “I myself,” he said, “will have no hesitation in denouncing the 
slightest departure by Caste Hindus from the strictest nonviolence. It is 
difficult for me to see why communal hatred should be on the increase 
because of the Temple Entry Proclamation. Certainly I observed none 
during my recent tour in Travancore. And in so far as specific charges of 
molestation are concerned I would advise Shri Phillip’s correspondent to 
file complaints in the local courts. I may mention that I have received 
complaints of a contrary nature from Caste Hindus alleging that Harijans 
living in or near Christian cheris were molested by Christians. I refused to 
publish the statements and referred the writers to the local courts. I would 
have likewise treated the foregoing postcard but for the very serious 
allegations contained in it. They could only be dealt with publicly and by a 
public investigation.”— 


A friend who had studied the work of the Salvation Army, sent to 
Gandhiji “an interesting note” which was published in the Harijan of June 
12, 1937. He quoted the Encyclopaedia Britannica which said that the 
various social activities of the Army were actuated by the sole aim of 


proselytisation. General Booth, the founder of the Army, had himself 
written to his son that “the social work is the bait, but it is salvation that is 
the hook that lands the fish.” Every soldier of the Army had to be a “Soul- 
winner.”— Gandhiji commented, “Of course what is true of the Army is 
more or less true of all Christian Missions. The social work is undertaken 
not for its own sake but as an aid to salvation of those who receive social 
service. The history of India would have been written differently if the 
Christians had come to India to live their lives in our midst and permeate 
ours with their aroma if there was any... But say some of them, Tf what 
you say had held good with Jesus there would have been no Christians.’ To 
answer this would land me in a controversy in which I have no desire to 
engage. But I may be permitted to say that Jesus preached not a new 
religion but a new way of life.”— 


In the Harijan dated June 12, 1937 Gandhiji published a long extract 
from a letter he had received from an American sister who had worked for 
years as a missionary in India. “But as for Harijans themselves,” she 
wrote, “I certainly do not agree that they are stupid, or unintelligent, or 
lacking in religious sense. They are not even unsophisticated. If we tried to 
use the ‘high-pressure’ methods of which you accuse us, I assure you we 
would get no results among them. To me they are just nice people very 
much like myself and my brothers and sisters and friends. To be sure they 
are oppressed and illiterate, even unkempt, but they are thoughtful, 
spiritual-minded, generous, kindly; in character they seem to me above, 
rather than below, the average of mankind. I like them better than Savarnas 
- but that is my bad taste, perhaps.” 


Next, she proceeded to tell Gandhiji that his attitude towards Harijans 
was superficial. “The only explanation,” she continued, “that comes to my 
mind is that you either do not know them or you are insincere. The latter is 
unworthy of attention. The former might be true - for we sometimes know 
least those who live in the same house with us. May be, you still 


unconsciously have a little ‘high caste’ attitude... It may be your city 
outlook. Whatever it is, you are not seeing them as I see them.”— 


She pleaded that she knew the Harijans better because she herself was 
a villager and had lived with them as one of them. “Our spiritual 
communion,” she said, “was always on terms of equality. I received as 
much from them as I gave may be more. At least I can testify that some of 
the deepest spiritual thinking, the most exquisite spiritual attainment, that I 
have ever known, I have seen in the souls of Depressed Class Hindus - and 
I don’t mean exceptional, educated ones, I mean illiterate villagers. But 
would I have seen it if I had been haggling them to become Christians? I 
assure you I would not!... To be sure they talk politics and economics, but 
it is only the spiritual interest that holds them till midnight, brings the m 
back at dawn, and in the hot noonday, with the plea, ‘If you knew how we 
want to hear that God loves us, you wouldn’t want to rest.’”— 


She also gave some advice to Gandhiji. “If you cannot meet that need,” 
she concluded, “you cannot hold the Depressed Classes - if you can meet 
it, you will hold them. For that is what they are asking - yes, and Shudras, 
too, and even some merchants and Brahmans.”— 


Gandhiji rejected her suggestion that he did not know Harijans. “The 
writer,” he said, “has no warrant for suggesting that I do not know or love 
Harijans sufficiently because I attribute to Harijans inability to receive 
Christian teachings. My attitude is not ‘superficial’ as she will have it to 
be. Whatever it is, it is based on deep experience and observation 
dependent not on a day’s or even a year’s contact, but on close contact for 
years with tens of thousands of India’s masses, not as a superior being but 
feeling as one of them. But she is wholly right when she says, ‘Whatever it 
is, you are not seeing them as I see them.’ They are my kith and kin, 
breathing the same air, living the same life, having the same faith, the 


same aspirations, and the same earth sustaining us in life as it will in 
death! And for her?”— 


He agreed with her that the spiritual needs of Harijans had to be met 
and that Caste Hindus had to treat them as equals. But he differed with her 
as regards the way to meet their spiritual needs. “But I am not so stupid as 
to think,” he said, “that I or any single person can supply the spiritual 
needs of his neighbour. Spiritual needs cannot be supplied through the 
intellect or through the stomach, even as the needs of the body cannot be 
supplied through the spirit. One can paraphrase the famous saying of Jesus 
and say, ‘Render unto the body that which is its, and unto the spirit that 
which is its.’ And the only way I can supply my neighbour’s spiritual 
needs is by living the life of the spirit without even exchanging a word 
with him. The life of the spirit will translate itself into acts of love for my 
neighbour.”— 


At the same time he was sure that Christian missions were not meeting 
whatever spiritual needs the Harijans had. “But to admit that Harijans,” he 
concluded, “have the same spiritual need as the rest of us, is not to say that 
they would understand the intellectual presentation of Christianity as much 
as I would; for instance. I put them on the same level as my own wife. Her 
spiritual needs are no less than mine, but she would no more understand 
the presentation of Christianity than any ordinary Harijan would... 
Presentation, with a view to conversion, of a faith other than one’s own, 
can only necessarily be through an appeal to the intellect or the stomach or 
both. I do maintain in spite of the extract I have quoted that the vast mass 
of Harijans, and for that matter Indian humanity, cannot understand the 
presentation of Christianity, and that generally speaking their conversion 
wherever it has taken place has not been a spiritual act in any sense of the 
term. They are conversions for convenience. And I have had 
overwhelming corroboration of the truth during my frequent and extensive 
wanderings.— 


The same issue of the Harijan published a report which Gandhiji had 
received from Thakkar Bapa about the quality of Christian preaching in 
the Nizam’s Dominions (the former Hyderabad State). The report said: 

About six months ago an event which took place at Karepally, 
Warangal District, Nizam’s Dominions, describes the methods 
adopted by the Christian missionaries to make conversions of Hindus 
and especially Harijans. Some days previous to the appointed date, 
the village teachers sent out news of the coming event into all the 
surrounding villages and made sure that the people of all castes of 
Hindus and especially Harijans were present on the occasion in large 
numbers. The pastor arrived at the place bringing with him a girl, 
about 12 years old, who he said would cure all that were presented to 
her of all sorts of diseases and also show them the real path to 
realization of God. 


The pastor then stood and said addressing those present, ‘You 
believe in gods who are dead and gone. Your Rama was born, 
behaved and acted like an ordinary mortal and then died. So was the 
case with Krishna also, who had many more vices to his credit. Here 
is before you a person who is the very incarnation of Christ. Christ is 
in her now, which fact you can verify yourself by being cured of your 
diseases at the mere touch of her hands. Why believe in gods who are 
past and no more effective? You should all believe in and follow the 
path of Jesus Christ who was born to Virgin Mary, preached the 
Gospel which leads to salvation, died outwardly but rose again on the 
third day to redeem the sinning millions of the world.’ 


A subscription of one anna per head and two annas for a metal 
cross were charged. They were told that, unless they wore the cross at 
all times and believed in the truth and efficacy of Christianity, there 
would not be any good effect in the case of diseased patients.— 


Gandhiji made a brief comment. “If it is true,” he said, “it stands self- 
condemned. I would like the Mission concerned to investigate the 
complaint and throw light on it.”— 


Another report which Thakkar Bapa sent was about the method of 
conversion employed by missionaries in the Shahabad District of Bihar. 
Gandhiji published it in the Harijan of June 19,1937. “After having visited 
the village,” said the report, “and having created familiarity with the 
Harijans they at once start a school and put it in charge of a Harijan 
teacher who either himself is an influential man or related to such a one. 
Whenever they come to learn that some tension or actual litigation is going 
on between the Harijans and other villagers they at once seize the 
opportunity to take up the side of the poor Harijans and help them with 
money and advice. They are thus hailed as saviours and conversion 
follows as if to repay the obligation. Whenever a village Harijan leader 
accepts the new faith almost all belonging to his clan follow him.”— The 
report went on to point out that “In all cases of conversion, new or old, not 
a single instance can be found in which the acceptance of the new faith 
was due to any religious conviction... Those of the new and old who are 
still continuing as nominal Christians are willing to return to Hinduism if 
their grievances are removed.” Finally, the report listed nine grievances of 
which “only one, namely, refusal of entry into temples was religious.”— 


Gandhiji wrote, “If what is said in the report about the conversions be 
true, it is from my standpoint reprehensible. Such superficial conversions 
can only give rise to suspicion and strife. But if a missionary body or 
individual choose to follow the methods described in the report, nothing 
can be done to prevent them. It is therefore much more profitable to turn 
the searchlight inward and to discover our own defects. Fortunately the 
report enables us to do so. Nine causes are enumerated to show why 
Harijans are induced to leave the Hindu fold. Seven are purely economic, 
one is social, and one is purely religious. Thus they are reduced- 
economically, degraded socially and boycotted from religious 


participation. The wonder is not that they leave Hinduism, the wonder is 
that they have not done so for so long and that so few leave their faith even 
when they do. The moral is obvious.” He called upon the Harijan Sevak 
Sangh to find more workers for doing service to the Harijans and for 
“propaganda among the so-called caste Hindus, not in the shape of reviling 
them but showing them that religion does not warrant the treatment that is 
meted out to Harijans by them.”— 


A correspondent posed before Gandhiji four questions which were 
published in the Harijan of September 25, 1937. The first question was 
whether “Hindus who have once renounced their faith for some reason or 
other and joined Islam or Christianity” should be reconverted if they 
“sincerely repent and want to come back.” The second question was about 
“Lakhs of Depressed Class people in South India” who “have joined 
Christianity wholesale but who “feel it worthwhile to readopt their 
ancestral faith.” The third question was whether a Hindu who “was made 
to join another faith for certain material conditions” and “feels 
disillusioned” should be welcomed when he “comes and knocks at our 
door.” The fourth question was as to what should be done with “Hindu 
boys and girls” who have been brought up and converted in Christian or 
Muslim orphanages and who now “approach us for shuddhi.”— 


Gandhiji’s reply to all these questions was positive. “In my opinion,” 
he observed, “they are not examples of real conversion. If a person through 
fear, compulsion, starvation or for material gain or consideration goes over 
to another faith, it is a misnomer to call it conversion. Most cases of mass 
conversion, of which we have heard so much during the past two years, 
have been to my mind false coin... I would, therefore, unhesitatingly re¬ 
admit to the Hindu fold all such repentants without much ado, certainly 
without any shuddhi... And as I believe in the equality of all the great 
religions of the earth, I regard no man as polluted because he has forsaken 
the branch on which he was sitting and gone over to another of the same 
tree. If he comes to the original branch, he deserves to be welcomed and 


not told that he had committed sin by reason of his having forsaken the 
family to which he belonged. In so far as he may be deemed to have erred, 
he has sufficiently purged himself of it when he repents of the error and 
retraces his step.”— 


Mr. John R. Mott who had come to India in order to preside over a 
conference of the international Missionary Council to be held at Tambaram 
in Madras Presidency from December 12 to 29, met Gandhiji on or before 
December 4, 1938. This was his third visit to the Mahatma. The discussion 
between the two went on for two days and was published in the Harijan of 
December 10. “This is a unique convention,” Mott said, “where 14 
councils of the younger churches of Asia, Africa and Latin America, and 
14 of the older churches of Europe, America and Australia will be 
represented by over 400 delegates. We want this to be a help and not a 
hindrance to India... Am I, I ask, right in thinking that the tide has turned a 
little bit on the great things you impressed on me?” Gandhiji replied, 
“What I have noticed is that there is a drift in the right direction so far as 
thought is concerned, but I do feel that in action there is no advance. I was 
going to say ‘not much advance’ but I deliberately say ‘no advance’. You 
may be able give solitary instances of men here and there, but they do not 
count.”— 

Some portions of the dialogue that followed are worth being 
reproduced at some length: 

J.M: Is not taking advantage of people’s disabilities being avoided 
now? I must say I was terribly pained to read of the McGavran 
incident...— 


G: Even on this question, whilst some friends, I agree, are in 
earnest, so far as action goes, there has been no change. 

J.M: You mean there is not action enough? 


G: No, there is no action at all. I have plenty of evidence to prove 
what I say. I do not publish all the correspondence I get. Mr. A. A. 
Paul, whom you may know, convened a conference some time ago. 
The proceedings were revealing. Their resolutions were half-hearted. 
As far as I am aware, there was no unanimity about any definite 
action.— 


J.M.: I was encouraged by a resolution of the National Christian 
Council which insisted on pure motives and pure practice. 

G: You may cite the resolution but you will not be able to show 
corresponding action. 


J.M: They are now talking of conversion of groups and families. I 
am not quite clear, though, as to what in certain cases the word 
‘group’ implies. 

G. I am quite clear. It is mass conversion called by another 

219 

name.— 


J.M: On the third question of the wise use of money I see signs of 
encouragement. 


G: But it is making virtue of necessity. The Indian Christians are 
thinking aloud and doing things themselves. They are talking of their 
own responsibilities and saying, ‘Thank God, American money can’t 
come.’ J.M: How many missionaries and Christians in general help in 
constructive activities like the village industries movement, the new 
educational movement, and so on? 


G: I am happy to be able to say that I have some valued Christian 
colleagues. But they can be counted on one’s fingers. I fear that the 
vast bulk of them remain unconvinced... They evidently believe in 
industrialization and Western type of education. And missionaries as 
a body perhaps fight shy of movements not conducted wholly or 
predominantly by Christians.— 

But in spite of the best efforts of Christian missions to exploit the 
situation created by Gandhiji’s call for abolition of untouchability, the tide 
was turning against conversions. This was admitted by the Tambaram 
Conference of the International Missionary Council presided over by Mr. 
J. R. Mott. “We have long held,” proclaimed the Conference, “that the one 
serious rival for the spiritual supremacy of India that Christianity has to 
face is resurgent Hinduism, and recent happenings have deepened the 
conviction. The spirit of new Hinduism is personified in Mahatma Gandhi, 
whose amazing influence over his fellows is undoubtedly fed by the fires 
of religion and patriotism. Because he is a staunch Hindu and finds within 
the faith of his forefathers the spiritual succour he needs, he strongly 
opposes the Christian claim that Jesus Christ is the one and only saviour. 
This reminds us again that unless the great Christian affirmations are 
verified in Christian living, they beat ineffectively on Indian minds.”— 


By now the missionaries had realized that India was fast heading 
towards independence. That rang alarm bells in their mind. But they could 
not do anything about it except getting reconciled to new power equations. 
In years to come Christian missions would be forced to change their 
strategy and raise the slogan of Indigenisation. The Christian Ashram 
Movement of which we hear a lot these days, was one of the products of 
this new strategy. Some missionaries started planning to masquerade as 
Hindu sannyasins.— Meanwhile they started pestering Gandhiji with 
questions about the future of Christian missions in India. They wanted him 
to make some commitment. 


The Harijan dated December 12, 1939 published extracts from a letter 
written to Gandhiji by an American missionary. “Are you and the 
Congress,” he asked, “generally neutral in regard to which religion a 
person belongs to?” He himself answered the question, saying, “I believe 
the Congress claims to be neutral, but my contention is that they are not.” 
In proof of his assertion he cited two instances. “Your friend, the late 
Prime Minister of Madras,”— he stated, “sent a wire of congratulations to 
Christians who became Hindus. Is that being neutral? And just the other 
day, here near Bombay in Thana District, when about fifty hill people 
returned to Hinduism, the leaders in making them Hindus were Congress 
leaders of Thana District. So that plainly shows that Congress leaders 
favour Hinduism.” He concluded by expressing fear about the fate of the 
“small minority” of Christians under “Puma swaraj” which he described as 
“Hindu raj”. 224 


Gandhiji wrote back, “I am not aware of what Shri Rajagopalachari 
said. He is well able to take care of himself. But I can give my idea of 
neutrality. In free India every religion should prosper on terms of equality, 
unlike what is happening today. Christianity being the nominal religion of 
the rulers, it receives favours which no other religion enjoys. A 
government responsible to the people dare not favour one religion or 
another. But I see nothing wrong in Hindus congratulating those who 
having left them may return to their fold... I have already complained of 
the methods adopted by some missionaries to wean ignorant people from 
the religion of their forefathers. It is one thing to preach one’s religion to 
whomsoever may choose to adopt it, another to entice masses. And if 
those thus enticed, on being undeceived, go back to their old love, their 
return will give natural joy to those whom they had foresaken.”22^ 


The missionaries, however, were loathe to give up. Another delegation 
came to Gandhiji with some new questions. The discussion was published 


in the Harijan dated January 1, 1939. One missionary who was a professor 
asked Gandhiji, “Will you under swaraj allow Christians to go on with 
their proselytizing activity without any hindrance?” Gandhiji replied, “No 
legal hindrance can be put in the way of any Christian or anybody 
preaching for the acceptance of his doctrine.” The missionary wanted to 
know “whether the freedom they were having under the British regime 
would be allowed to them under the national Government without any 
interference.” Gandhiji said, “I can’t answer that question categorically 
because I do not know what is exactly allowed and what is not allowed 
under the British regime today. That is a legal question. Besides, what is 
permitted may not necessarily be the same thing as what is permissible 
under the law. All, therefore, that 1 can say today is that you should enjoy 
all freedom you are entitled to under the law today.”— 


The missionary continued, “Some of us are under an apprehension that 
they may have hereafter to labour under... disabilities. Is there any 
guarantee that such a thing would not happen?” Gandhiji replied, “As I 
wrote in Harijan, you do not seem to realize that Christians are today 
enjoying the privileges because they are Christians. The moment a person 
turns Christian, he becomes a Sahib log. He gets a job and position which 
he could not have otherwise got. He adopts foreign dress and ways of 
living. He cuts himself from his people and begins to fancy himself a limb 
of the ruling class. What the Christians are afraid of losing, therefore, is 
not their rights but anomalous privileges.”— 


Another missionary asked, “Why may I not share with others my 
experience of Jesus Christ which has given me such ineffable peace?” 
Gandhiji replied, “Because you cannot possibly say that what is best for 
you is best for all... And again, is it not superarrogance to assume that you 
alone possess the key to spiritual joy and peace, and that an adherent of a 
different faith cannot get the same in equal measure from a study of his 
scriptures? I enjoy a peace and equanimity of spirit which has excited the 
envy of many Christian friends. I have got it principally through the Gita.” 


Coming to the obstinacy of Christians about their mission, Gandhiji added, 
“Your difficulty lies in your considering the other faiths as false or so 
adulterated as to amount to falsity. And you shut your eyes to the truth that 
shines in other faiths and which gives equal joy and peace to their 
votaries.” 


Finally, the missionary asked, “What would be your message to a 
Christian like me and my fellows?” Gandhiji said, “Become worthy of the 
messages that is imbedded in the Sermon on the Mount and join the 
spinning brigade.”— 


A group of American teachers from the Ewing College and the 
Agricultural Institute, Allahabad, called upon Gandhiji on the eve of their 
return to America. The talk which Gandhiji had with them was published 
in the Harijan of January 7, 1939. One of the teachers asked, “What is the 
place of Christian missions in the new India that is being built up today? 
What can they do to help in this great task?” Gandhiji replied, “To show 
appreciation of what India is and is doing. Up till now they have come as 
teachers and preachers with queer notions about India and India’s great 
religions. We have been described as a nation of superstitious heathens, 
knowing nothing, denying God. We are a brood of Satan as Murdoch 
would say. Did not Bishop Heber in his well-known hymn ‘From 
Greenland’s icy mountains’ describe India as a country where ‘every 
prospect pleases and only man is vile’? To me this is a negation of the 
spirit of Christ. My personal view, therefore, is that, if you feel that India 
has a message to give to the world, that India’s religions too are true, 
though like all religions imperfect for having percolated through imperfect 
human agency, and you come as fellow-helpers and fellow-seekers, there 
is a place for you here. But if you come as preachers of the ‘true Gospel’ 
to a people who are wandering in darkness, so far as I am concerned you 
can have no place. You may impose yourselves upon us.”— 


Gandhiji received a circular letter sent by the Secretary of the Seng 
Khasi Free Morning School stating that the Seng Khasi Free School 
Movement had been started in 1921 to break the missionary monopoly on 
education of the Khasi children and preserve national culture. The 
educational grants given by the British Government, said the circular, were 
used by the missionaries for printing Christian literature, including a Khasi 
translation of the Bible, and prescribing it in the school curriculum. The 
Deputy Inspector of Schools in Khasi and Jaintia Hills was a Christian. He 
insisted that the Seng Khasi Free Morning School should stick to the text¬ 
books prescribed by the missionaries. The School refused and was denied 
government aid. Gandhiji published the circular letter in the Harijan dated 
March 9, 1940 and commented, “If what is stated here is true, it enforces 
the argument often advanced by me that Christian missionary effort has 
been favoured by the ruling power. But I advertise the circular not for the 
sake of emphasizing my argument. I do so in order to ventilate the 
grievance of the secretary of the school. Surely he has every right to object 
to teaching proselytizing literature prepared by the missionaries... It is to 
be hoped that the school will not be deprived of the grant because of the 
secretary’s very reasonable objection.”— 


Gandhiji had another discussion with Christian missionaries on March 
12, 1940. As leaders of Christian thought, they asked for his guidance. 
“All I can say,” said Gandhiji, “is that there should be less of theology and 
more of truth in all that you say and do.” They requested him to explain. 
“How can I explain the obvious?” he said. “Among agents of the many 
untruths that are propounded in the world one of the foremost is theology. 
I do not say that there is no demand for it. There is a demand in the world 
for many a questionable thing.” The missionary asked a supplementary 
question, “Are you sure that no great result has come through your own 
study of Jesus?” Gandhiji replied, “Why? There is no doubt that it has 
come, but not, let me tell you, through theology or through the ordinary 
interpretation of theologists. For many of them contend that the Sermon on 
the Mount does not apply to mundane things, and that it was only meant 
for the twelve disciples.”— 


Emily Kinnaird was 86 years old when she met Gandhiji on July 20, 
1940. He addressed her as mother. A dialogue started when she observed 
that Gandhiji’s advice to Britain and Denmark to offer nonviolent 
resistance to Nazi Germany was no good. The dialogue, published in the 
Harijan of August 4, 1940, is being reproduced below because it is 
revealing: 

G: What was the good of Jesus Christ laying down his life? 

E.K: Oh, that was a different matter. He was the son of God. 

G: And so are we! 

E.K: No. He was the only son of God. 


G: It is there that the mother and son must differ. With you Jesus 
was the only begotten son of God. With me He was a son of God, no 
matter how much purer than us all, but every one of us is a son of 
God and capable of doing what Jesus did, if we but endeavour to 
express the divine in us. 


E.K: Yes, that is where I think you are wrong. If you accepted 
Christ in your heart and appealed to your people to do likewise, you 
could deliver your message with greater ease and far better effect. He 
is our salvation, and without receiving Him in our hearts we cannot 
be saved. 

G: So those who accept the Christ are all saved? They need do 
nothing more? 


E.K: We are sinners all, and we have to accept Him to be saved. 



G: And then we may continue to be sinners? Is that what you 
mean? You do not I hope belong to the Plymouth Brothers, do you? 

E.K: No, I am a Presbyterian. 

G: But you talk like some of the Plymouth Brothers I met long 
ago in Africa. 

E.K: Yes, I am afraid you were so unfortunate in the Christian 
contacts you formed in Africa. You did not meet the right kind of 
people. 

G: Surely you will not say that. I met a number of estimable 
people. They were all honest and sincere. 

E.K: But they were not true Christians. 

Gandhiji told her about Christians he met in South Africa “And old A. 
W. Baker,” he said, “who must be over eighty now, is still at me. He writes 
to remind me time and again that unless I accept Christ in his way I cannot 
be saved.”— The lady “wondered why we were so obtuse as not to see 
what was so obvious to her - the outstanding superiority of Christianity to 
any other message.” She said that the Bible had been translated “into 
several hundred languages” and “God’s message” made available to many 
people in their own dialects. Gandhiji observed, “That proves nothing.” 
She ignored the remark and went on to say that “whereas fifty years ago 
there were so many hundred thousand Christians in India, there are today 
ten times as many.” To that also Gandhiji replied, “Again that proves 
nothing. But why quarrel about labels? Can we not find a few hundred 
thousand Indians or Africans who live the message of Christ without being 
called Christian?”— 


Gandhiji had a discussion with Harijan workers on January 8, 1942. 
One of the questions raised by them was how to deal with “temptations 
given by missionaries in the shape of books, school fees, etc., with a view 
to the boys’ ultimate conversion.” Gandhiji advised, “The missionaries 


have of course the right to preach the gospel of Christ, and to invite the 
non-Christians to embrace Christianity. But every attempt to press material 
benefits or attractions in the aid of conversion should be freely exposed, 
and Harijans should be educated to resist the temptation.”— 


A Christian wrote to Gandhiji, “You oppose all conversion without 
conviction. But are you not inconsistent? You profess equal respect for all 
religions. Why then worry about how the conversion is brought about?”— 
Gandhiji gave a reply in the Harijan of March 29, 1942. “I have extracted 
the question,” he said, “from your long and plausible letter, cleverly 
written. Conversion without conviction is a mere change and not 
conversion which is a revolution in one’s life. You seem to forget that 
equal respect implies respect for my own faith as much as for yours or any 
other neighbour’s. My respect for my own faith forbids my being 
indifferent to my children abandoning their parents’ faith without 
conviction. And I should have little respect for you, if you led my children 
astray by making all kinds of worldly promises in which matters of the 
spirit had no play.”— 


Soon afterwards, Gandhiji became preoccupied with the Quit India 
Movement which led him to jail in August 1942. During this crises, the 
missionaries by and large were ranged on the side of the British. William 
Baton, Secretary of the International Missionary Council denounced the 
“moral imbecilities of Mr. Gandhi” in a letter he wrote on July 21, 1942 to 
L. S. Amery, the Secretary of State for India.^^ But when he came out of 
jail in May 1944 after a fast which had weakened him considerably, four 
hundred Christians belonging to the National Christian Party gathered at 
Juhu (Bombay) where he was convalescing and offered prayer for his 
health. Gandhiji thanked them in a message dated May 28,1944.— 



On November 5, 1944 Gandhiji wrote a letter to the Metropolitan of 
Calcutta in response to some criticism the latter had offered. “Utmost 
frankness,” he wrote, “is a sure test of friendship. I therefore appreciate 
your criticism, being that of a true friend.” He added that “Religion should 
be a binding, not a disruptive force” and commanded “the good work 
which some missionaries had done among the Frontier tribes.”— On 
December 24, 1944 he sent a Christmas message and noted in his diary, 
“Today is Christmas Day. For us who believe in the equality of all 
religions, the birth of Jesus Christ is as worthy of veneration as that of 
Rama, Krishna, etc.”— 


Gandhiji’s Christian disciple, J. C. Kumarappa, had written a book. 
Practice and Precepts of Jesus. He wrote a foreword to it on March 21, 
1945. “It is a revolutionary view,” he said, “of Jesus as a man of God. It is 
none the less revealing and interesting... Anyway, this reading of the Bible 
must bring solace to the Christians of India. If they will read the Bible as 
Prof. K. does, they need not be ashamed of their forefathers or their 
ancient faith.”— On July 20, 1945, he wrote to Kumarappa, “I have 
distributed two copies of your book on Jesus to Indian Christians. Supply 
me with more books.”— 


Mrs. Clara Hopman, a Dutch artist, had made a statue of Jesus Christ 
measuring 6 ft. by 4 ft. It was priced Rs.l0,000. The statue was to be 
installed in the premises of the All India Village industries Association at 
Maganwadi. On October 28, 1945 Gandhiji wrote to Kumarappa, “You 
have good certificate about the sculpture. As soon as it is on view in 
Maganwadi, I shall set about collecting.— 


The Harijan dated March 3, 1946 published a discussion which 
Gandhiji had with members of the Friends Ambulance Unit which had 
worked during the Midnapore cyclone in 1942 and the Bengal Famine in 


1943. Prompted by Gandhiji’s remark that even “converts to orthodox 
Christianity today are veering round’, a member asked, “By ‘veering’ you 
mean going back?” He replied, “Yes, I mean going back to real 
Christianity, to Christ, not Western Christianity. They are beginning to 
realize that Jesus was an Asiatic. Having realized this, they are reading the 
Bible through Indian eyes. You should study the meaning of Indian 
Christianity through J. C. Kumarappa’s book. Practice and Precepts of 


Jesus P— 


Gandhiji’s spirit of Swadeshi in respect of religion was not confined to 
India or Hinduism. He wanted to spread the message to the whole world. 
Some Black soldiers from West Africa came to him some time after 
January, 1946. He had a discussion with them which was published in the 
Harijan dated February 24, 1946. The first question they asked him was, 
“There are several religions in the world. They were all originated in 
foreign countries. Which one of these should Africa follow? Or should she 
discover her own religion? If so, how?” Gandhiji replied, “It is wrong to 
say that all religions were originated in foreign countries. I had fairly 
extensive contact with Zulus and Bantus and I found that the Africans 
have a religion of their own though they may not have reasoned it out for 
themselves, I am not referring to the rites. Ceremonies and fetishes that are 
prevalent among African tribes but the religion of one Supereme God. You 
pray to that God. There are many religions, but religion is only one. You 
should follow that one religion. Foreigners might bring you Christianity. 
Christianity as exemplified in Europe and America today is a travesty of 
the teaching of Jesus. Then there are Hinduism, Islam and Zoroastrianism 
and so on. You should absorb the best that is in each without fettering your 
choice and from your own religion.”— 


Another question which the Africans asked was, “Everything immoral 
and deadly is attributed to Africa. What steps should be taken to eradicate 
the foreign prejudice against us?” Gandhiji observed, “Many, perhaps most 
of the evils that are at the back of the prejudice against Negroes are the 


result of the nominal Christianity imported from America. They have 
learnt to drink, dance immoral dances and so on. Then there are evil 
African customs. You must eradicate these and thus disarm foreign 
prejudice. It is a laborious task but a joyous one. The epidemic of foreign 
prejudice will then die a natural death.”— 


On January 27, 1946 Gandhiji had a question and answer session with 
constructive workers who had come to attend a conference in Madras. A 
report of this session was published in The Hindu dated January 29. One 
of the questions “related to receiving assistance from Christian 
Missionaries in free India.” Gandhiji said that “they could certainly accept 
help not only from Christian missionaries but from others also, if such help 
was offered sincerely and in a spirit of service to the country.” He held up 
the example of C. F. Andrews. “India requires the help,” he continued, “of 
all men of goodwill who were prepared to offer that help in a spirit of love 
and service.”— 


In the Harijan dated June 30, 1946, he described Jesus as the most 
active nonviolent resister known perhaps to history.— The Harijan dated 
July 21, 1946, published his article, ‘Jews and Palestine’. He held the 
Christians responsible for the Jews seeking a home in Palestine. “It is a 
blot on the Christian world,” he wrote, “that they have been singled out, 
owing to a wrong reading of the New Testament, for prejudice against 
them. ‘If an individual Jew does a wrong, the whole Jewish world is to 
blame for it.’ If an individual Jew like Einstein makes a great discovery or 
another composes unsurpassable music, the merit goes to the authors and 
not to the community to which they belong.”— He advised the Jews to 
follow the example of “Jesus the Jew” rather than resort to force in 
Palestine. 


In the Harijan dated October 13, 1946 Gandhiji chided the Hindus of 
Jubbulpore for being rowdy and disturbing a Christian charity show in the 


town. The students of the local Christian convent had staged a drama at the 
end of which angels appeared before an orphaned girl and advised her to 
have faith in Jesus. A section of the audience had raised a hue and cry and 
demanded refund of the money they had paid for tickets. The organiser of 
the show had not been allowed to speak. Someone reported the incident to 
Gandhiji who wrote, “If what the correspondent says is true, the behaviour 
described was wholly unworthy. It betrayed extreme intolerance. Those 
who do not like things that do not coincide with their notions need not 
patronize them but it is ungentlemanly to behave like less than men when 
things are not to their taste.”— 


On June 7, 1947, Gandhiji had a discussion with some Christian 
missionaries. He told them, “The British and American missionaries in 
India have rendered no real service to the country. Their conception of 
service is to do work of compassion and serve the poor. But by 
establishing hospitals, schools and other institutions, they attracted our 
children and men, and our people left their own religion and embraced 
Christianity. Our religion is in no way inferior to Christianity.”— 


Gandhiji was in Rawalpindi on July 31, 1947 when the President of 
The Punjab Students Christian League asked him two questions. The 
interview was published in The Hindustan Times of August 3. The first 
question was if Christian missionaries would be asked to quit after India 
became independent. “Foreign missionaries,” replied Gandhiji, “will not 
be asked to quit India. Indian Christians will be free to occupy high official 
positions in the Indian Dominion.” The second question was “if non- 
Christians in the Indian Dominion would have freedom to embrace 
Christianity.” Gandhiji said that “he would be guided in this connection by 
the rules and laws framed.”— 


An Indian Catholic priest and a missionary came to Gandhiji with a 
report of “harassment of Roman Catholics at the hand of Hindus” in a 


village near Gurgaon, 25 miles from Delhi. Speaking at a prayer meeting 
on November 21, 1947, he said, “The persons who brought the 
information told me that the Roman Catholics were threatened that they 
would have to suffer if they did not leave the village. I hope this threat is 
unfounded and that the Christian men and women would be allowed to 
follow their religion and carry on their work without any hindrance. Now 
that we have freed ourselves from political bondage, they, too, are entitled 
to the same freedom to follow their religion and occupation as they had 
under the British.”— 


Gandhiji addressed a prayer meeting in New Delhi on December 24, 
1947. It was the evening before Christmas. He said, “Tomorrow is 
Christmas. Christmas is to Christians what Diwali is to us... I do not 
regard Christmas as an occasion for people to indulge in drunkenness. 
Christmas reminds one of Jesus Christ. I offer greetings to Christians in 
India and abroad. May the new year bring them prosperity and happiness. 
It has never been my wish that the freedom of India should mean the ruin 
of Christians here or that they should become Hindus or Muslims or Sikhs. 
For a Christian to become a Hindu or a Muslim or a Sikh is a fate worse 
than death. According to my view a Christian should become a better 
Christian... I want that all the Christians in and outside India should 
become free in the true sense. Let them exercise self-restraint and pursue 
the path of sacrifice and martyrdom shown by Jesus Christ. Let them be 
free and increase the area of freedom in the world.”— 

Summing up 


The one thing that stands out in this long-drawn-out dialogue between 
Mahatma Gandhi and the Christians is that all along he identified himself 
as a staunch Hindu. In fact, he took considerable pride in this self- 
identification. Far from being a dirty word as it would soon become even 
for some Hindu leaders and organisations, the word “Hindu” conveyed to 
him all that was noble and elevating. He did not feel that he was being 
“communal” when he called himself a Hindu. Nationalism as he saw it 


came naturally to a Hindu of his definition. Nor did he ever try to impart to 
this word a merely geographical meaning by equating it with the word 
“BhAratlya”. On the contrary, he understood and interpreted it as the 
embodiment of what was for him the deepest spiritual message and the 
greatest cultural heritage. Hinduism for him was not merely “a way of life” 
as some Hindu leaders have started saying these days. For him, Hinduism 
was a vast spiritual vision beckoning man to rise to the highest heights. 


In the many essays he wrote on the principles and practices of 
Hinduism, we find him affirming not only the fundamentals of Hindu 
spirituality but also the framework of Hindu culture and social philosophy. 
There is no symbol of Sanatana Dharma which does not stir him to his 
innermost depths and which he does not trace back to its inner and eternal 
spirit. He accords the highest honour to Hindu Shastras - the Vedas, the 
Upanishads, the Puranas,— the Gita,— the Mahabharata,— the 
Ramayana,— the Bhagavata.— He defends the “much-maligned 
Brahman” and entertains “not a shadow of doubt” that “if Brahmanism 
does not revive, Hinduism will perish.”— He upholds the “spirit behind 
idol-worship” and is prepared “to defend with my life the thousands of 
holy temples which sanctify this land.”— For him cow-protection “is the 
dearest possession of the Hindu heart” and “no one who does not believe 
in cow-protection can possibly be a Hindu.”— The sacred thread has a 
“deep meaning for him” as it is “the sign of the second birth, that is 
spiritual.” He says that vaMAshrama is “inherent in human nature, and 
Hinduism has simply made a science of it.”— He never regards 
Buddhism, Jainism, Saivism, Vaishnavism, Shaktism, Sikhism, etc., as 
separate religions. All of them are for him schools of Sanatana Dharma 
which allows as many ways as there are seekers. His view of Hinduism 
was summed up in the Young India of September 17, 1925. “What the 
divine author of the Mahabharata, “he wrote, “said of his great creation is 
equally true of Hinduism. Whatever of substance is contained in other 
religions is always to be found in Hinduism, and what is not in it is 
insubstantial and unnecessary.”— Earlier, he had foreseen a great future 
for Hinduism. “Hinduism,” he had written in the Young India of April 24, 
1924, “is a relentless pursuit after truth and if today it has become 


moribund, inactive, irresponsive to growth, it is because we are fatigued. 
As soon as the fatigue is over, Hinduism will burst forth upon the world 
with a brilliance perhaps never seen before.”— 


What has caused confusion and misunderstanding about his Hinduism 
is the concept of sarva-dharma-samabhAva (equal regard for all religions) 
which he had developed after deep reflection. Christian and Muslim 
missionaries have interpreted it to mean that a Hindu can go aver to 
Christianity or Islam without suffering any spiritual loss. They are also 
using it as a shield against every critique of their closed and aggressive 
creeds. The new rulers of India, on the other hand, cite it in order to prop 
up the Nehruvian version of Secularism which is only a euphemism for 
anti-Hindu animus shared in common by Christians, Muslims, Marxists 
and those who are Hindus only by accident of birth. For Gandhiji, 
however, sarva-dharma-samabhAva was only a restatement of the age-old 
Hindu tradition of tolerance in matters of belief. Hinduism has always 
adjudged a man’s faith in terms of his AdhAra (receptivity) and adhikAra 
(aptitude). It has never prescribed a uniform system of belief or behavior 
for everyone because, according to it, different persons are in different 
stages of spiritual development and need different prescriptions for further 
progress. Everyone, says Hinduism, should be left alone to work out one’s 
own salvation through one’s own inner seeking and evolution. Any 
imposition of belief or behaviour from the outside is, therefore, a 
mechanical exercise which can only do injury to one’s spiritual growth. 
Preaching to those who have not invited it is nothing short of aggression 
born out of self-righteousness. That is why Gandhiji took a firm and 
uncompromising stand against proselytisation by preaching and gave no 
quarters to the Christian mission’s mercenary methods of spreading the 
gospel. 


In any case, his sarva-dharma-samabhAva did not stop Gandhiji from 
processing Christianity in terms of reason and universal ethics. 
Christianity like Islam, he said, was bom only yesterday and was still in 
the process of being interpreted. Christians should not, therefore, present 


their dogmas as if they were finished products. He found that Christianity 
had become an imperialist creed when it allied itself with a Roman 
emperor and that so it had stayed till our own times when it was working 
hand in hand with Western imperialism. He saw no sense in the Christian 
doctrine of the original sin and thought poorly of vicarious atonement. He 
placed Jesus very high as a moral teacher, but denied his virgin birth as 
well as the divinity accorded to him by Christian theology. Miracles of 
Jesus which have been the stock-in-trade of Christianity down the 
centuries, failed to impress him. He dismissed them as silly stories which 
did no credit to Jesus and were contrary to the unchangeable laws of 
Nature. And even as a moral teacher Jesus compared unfavourably with 
the Buddha when it came to universal compassion which for Gandhiji was 
the essence of spirituality. He spoke rather sharply about theology which 
Christianity prizes most but which according to him was an agent of a 
great many untruths known to human history. Thus very little was left of 
Christianity after Gandhiji had gone through it, claim by claim and dogma 
by dogma. The only part which survived unscathed was the Sermon on the 
Mount. Even this was seen by him as a Jewish rather than a Christian 
contribution. Jesus for him was a Jewish prophet par excellence. In any 
case, he saw no evidence that the Sermon had ever influenced Christianity 
as known from history. As for himself, the solace he found in the Gita was 
missing in the Sermon.— 


A Christian scholar has summarised the dialogue which Gandhiji had 
with the Christian missionaries. He concludes: “The foregoing survey 
substantiates that, however unacknowledged, Gandhi did leave a stamp on 
missiological thought and practice in his life, for a time at least on the 
Indian scene. Most of his Christian missionary contacts being on the 
Protestant side, his influence too was largely confined to the Protestant 
side. Their liberal outlook, smaller structures and independent work were 
favourable to ideological and practical influence from without, though a 
fundamentalist approach to the Bible prevented a change in their dogmatic 
approach to non-Christian religions. The Catholic Church by its very size, 
hierarchically centralised structure and the sheer weight of its long 
tradition, was necessarily slow and cautious in opening to external 


influences. It was not before the Second Vatican Council in the early 
sixties that the new lines and influences in Catholic missiological thought 
were to receive official recognition in the Roman Church and And their 
place in the conciliar documents.”— After giving some salient features of 
the Second Vatican Council, he continues, “The Council documents on the 
subject represent only the Arst step and the Arst official word in the new 
thinking on the subject. It will be long before we arrive at the last word if 
we arrive at all. But it would seem that since the Council itself giant strides 
have been made in missiology which if not avowedly due to Gandhi’s 
influence do certainly represent the Gandhian and Hindu line of 
thinking.”— 


It is difficult to say whether the new formulations of the Second 
Vatican Council represented a change of heart or a change of strategy in 
the altered situation when Christianity was having a difficult time in the 
West and being forced to seek a new home in the East. If it was a change 
of strategy, one wonders whether it would have become a change of heart 
in case a continued pressure from “Gandhian and Hindu line of thinking” 
had been maintained after the passing away of the Mahatma. History does 
provide some instances when change of strategy has become a change of 
heart due to unyielding resistance from victims of aggression. 
Unfortunately, however, the class of people who came to power after 
independence had no use for the “Gandhian and Hindu line to thinking.” 
They continued to swear by the Mahatma and even installed him as the 
Father of the Nation. But that was no more than an empty ritual. For all 
practical purposes no other country has bid goodbye to Gandhiji to the 
same extent as the country where he was born and from which he drew all 
his inspiration. In the world outside he is honoured as a great Hindu and an 
outstanding exponent of Hinduism at its best, both in word and deed. His 
philosophy of life, based on Hinduism, is inviting serious attention from 
the intellectual elite in America, Europe and Japan. In his own country, 
however, he has been disfigured into the patron saint of a Secularism 
which decries Hinduism as “communalism” and goes out of its way to 
give protection to closed theologies of aggression, ideological as well as 


physical. Small wonder that the change of mission strategy has failed to 
become a change of heart. 


Postscript 


But, at the same time, it has to be admitted that Mahatma Gandhi’s 
prolonged dialogue with Christian theologians, missionaries, moneybags, 
and the rest, left the Hindus at home more defenseless vis-a-vis the 
Christian onslaught than they had been ever before. Whatever laurels the 
Mahatma may have won abroad, he has proved to be a disaster for the 
Hindus in India. The sorry turnout can be traced to three basic infirmities 
from which his position vis-a-vis Christianity and its missions had 
suffered. Firstly, he coined and made fashionable the utterly thoughtless 
slogan of sarva-dharma-samabhAva vis-a-vis Christianity (and Islam). 
Secondly, he upheld an unedifying character like Jesus as a great teacher 
of mankind, and glorified no end the sentimental nonsense that is the 
Sermon on the Mount. Thirdly, he failed to see the true character of 
Christian missionaries, and nourished the illusion that he could tame them 
by his reasonableness and good manners. We are taking up the points one 
by one as they do call for some elaboration. 


Sarva-dharma-samabhAva was unknown to mainstream Hinduism 
before Mahatma Gandhi presented it as one of the sixteen mahAvratas 
(great vows), in his booklet, MaNgala-PrabhAta. It is true that mainstream 
Hinduism had always stood for tolerance towards all metaphysical points 
of view and ways of worship except that which led to AtatAyl-AchAra 
(gangsterism). But that tolerance had never become samabhAva, equal 
respect for all points of view. The acharyas of the different schools of 
Sanatana Dharma were all along engaged in debates over differences in 
various approaches to Sreyas (the Great Good). No Buddhist acharya is 
known to have equated the way of the Buddha to that of the Gita and vice 
versa, for instance. It is also true that overawed by the armed might of 
Islam, and deceived by the tall talk of the sufis, some Hindu saints in 
medieval India had equated Rama with Rahim, Krishna with Karim, Kashi 



with Kaba, the Brahmana with the Mullah, pUjA with namAz, and so on. 
But, the sects founded by these saints had continued to function on the 
fringes of Hindu society while the mainstream followed the saints and 
acharyas who never recognized Islam as a dharma. In modern times also, 
movements like the Brahmo Samaj which recognised Islam and 
Christianity as dharmas had failed to influence mainstream Hinduism, 
while Maharshi Dayananda and Swami Vivekananda who upheld the Veda 
and despised the Bible and the Quran, had had a great impact. This being 
the hoary Hindu tradition, Mahatma Gandhi’s recognition of Christianity 
and Islam not only as dharmas but also as equal to Sanatana Dharma was 
fraught with great mischief. For, unlike the earlier Hindu advocates of 
Islam and Christianity as dharmas, Mahatma Gandhi made himself known 
and became known as belonging to mainstream Hinduism. 


It remains a mystery as to how Mahatma Gandhi came to regard 
Christianity and Islam as ways of spiritual seeking rather than as terrorist 
and totalitarian ideologies of predatory imperialism. Here we have 
doctrines with a deity who is exclusive and jealous of all other deities, who 
makes himself known to mankind not directly but through a proxy, who 
has chosen people with whom he enters into covenants for imposing him 
on the rest of mankind by means of force, who commands his chosen 
people to wage a permanent war on all other peoples, and who is most 
happy when his worshippers commit massacres, destroy whole 
civilizations root and branch, and plunder and enslave helpless men, 
women and children. Here we have histories stretching over hundreds of 
years and hailing as heroes and saints some of the most bloodthirsty 
gangsters and altogether despicable characters. Mahatma Gandhi’s 
recognition of these ideologies as dharmas as good as Sanatana Dharma 
leads only to two conclusions. Either his own perception of Sanatana 
Dharma was not as deep as it sounds. Or the politician in him prevailed 
over his spiritual perception and he said what he did from the platform of 
Sarva-dharma-samabhAva in the hope of winning over Christians and 
Muslims to the nationalist camp. In any case, the utter failure of his 
attempt to achieve this goal proves that the attempt was foolhardy. He 
failed to win any significant section of Christians or Muslims either to the 



nationalist cause or to the camp of Sarva-dharma-samabhAva. But in the 
process of popularising this slogan, he diluted the definition of dharma 
beyond recognition, and placed Hindu society permanently on the 
defensive. No other slogan has proved more mischievous for Hinduism 
than the mindless slogan of Sarva-dharma-samabhAva vis-a-vis 
Christianity and Islam. 


The Mahatma’s heaping of admiration on Jesus and the Sermon on the 
Mount has proved no less mischievous. Before the Mahatma appeared on 
the scene, neither Jesus nor the Sermon on the Mount was known to Hindu 
society at large. It was only the small circle of Brahmo Samaj which had 
swooned on the name and the nonsense. But Mahatma Gandhi extolled 
them both, day in and day out, till they became household words, at least 
among the Hindu intelligentsia. It was a great solace to the Christian 
theologian and missionary that in the aftermath of Mahatma Gandhi he 
could silence all Hindu criticism of Christianity by merely mentioning 
these two magic names - Jesus and the Sermon. One wonders whether the 
Mahatma knew what modem research had done to the myth of Jesus. In 
any case, he was not at all called upon to lend his helping hand in the 
building up of a mischievous myth in this country. As regards the Sermon 
on the Mount, it has only to be referred to a Vyasa or a Valmiki or a 
Confucius or a Socrates, and it will be laughed out of court as bogus ethics 
devoid of discriminative wisdom. Mahatma Gandhi was not called upon to 
sell this mindless clap-trap as the sum and substance of the highest moral 
code. In any case, the Christian missionaries themselves had never known 
the beauties of the Sermon on the Mount till Mahatma Gandhi discovered 
it for them. Now onwards they could strut around with superior airs. 


Finally, Mahatma Gandhi’s meeting the Christian missionaries again 
and again and wasting so much breath in talking to them on the same 
point, namely, the uniqueness of Jesus and their right to convert in his 
name, made them respectable in the eyes of Hindus at large. Till the 
Mahatma started advertising the Christian missionaries in his widely read 
weeklies, Hindus had looked down upon them as an unavoidable nuisance 



deserving only contempt and ridicule. The Mahatma invested them with 
unprecedented prestige and made them loom large on the Indian scene. 
One wonders why he failed to consult a text-book of missiology and find 
out for himself that Christian missionaries are trained and employed as 
incorrigible casuits, crooks, liers, and practitioners of despicable frauds. 
He was certainly living in a fool’s paradise if he hoped that Christian 
missionaries could become straight and honest and serve in a 
humanitarians way. By inviting them to be of unmotivated service to their 
victims, he bestowed on them an aura which they had never had before. 
The result has been an unprecedented strengthening and multiplication of 
the Christian missionary apparatus for subverting Hindu society and 
culture. He had done the same when he salvaged the Muslim mullahs from 
their ghettos and made them look like giants during the infamous Khilafat 
agitation. 


APPENDIX 

Bishop Heber’s Hymn 

From Greenland’s icy mountians. 

From India’s coral strand. 

Where Africa’s sunny fountains 
Roll down their golden sand; 

From many an ancient river. 

From many a palmy plain. 

They call us to deliver 
Their land from error’s chain. 

What though the spicy breezes 
Blow soft o’er Ceylon’s isle. 

Though every prospect pleases 
And only man is vile. 

In vain with lavish kindness 
The gifts of God are strewn. 

The heathen in his blindness 
Bows down to wood and stone. 



Can we whose souls are lighted 
With wisdom from on high, 
Can we to men benighted 
The lamp of life deny? 
Salvation, oh. Salvation! 

The joyful sound proclaim. 

Till each remotest nation 
Has learn’d Messiah’s name. 
Waft, waft, ye winds. His story. 
And you, ye waters! roll. 

Till like a sea of glory 
It spreads from pole to pole; 
Till over our ransom’d nature 
The Lamb for sinners slain 
Redeemer, King, Creator 
In bliss returns to reign. 


Footnotes: 

- The Collected Works of Mahatma Gandhi, Volume 39, New 
Delhi, 1970, p. 32. 

- Ibid., p. 33. 

-Ibid., p. 61. 

- Ibid. 

- Ibid. p. 100. 

^Ibid.,^.m. 

- Ibid., p. 102. 

^Ibid.,^. 103. 

- Ibid. 


— Ibid., p. 104. This was, however, the most logical and 
legitimate interpretation of the Christian doctrine. 

^Ibid.,^. 111. 

^Ibid.,p. 112. 

^Ibid., pp. 112-13. 

^Ibid., 113. 

^Ibid.,p. 114. 

— Ibid., p. 13o. 

^Ibid.,p. 131. 

^Ibid., pp. 131-32. 

^Ibid.,p. 132. 

^Ibid. 

— Ibid., Volume 13, New Delhi, 1979 reprint, p. 219. 

— Ibid., p. 220. The passage (Mark 16.15) is now recognised as an 
interpolation by Biblical scholarship. It is not found in “some 
manuscripts and ancient translations” of the gospel. 

— Ibid., Volume 15, New Delhi, 1979 reprint, p. 304. 

^/^iW.,p.305. 

— Ibid., Volume 23, New Delhi, 1967, p. 104. 

— Ibid., p. 391. Non-Hindus continue to meddle in Hindu affairs 
with the tacit support of secular editors and the Government, whether 
it concerns Sat! or temple-entry. 


— Ibid., p. 545. 

— Ibid., Volume 24, New Delhi, 1967, p. 476. 

— Ibid., Volume 23, New Delhi, 1967, pp. 85-86. 

— Ibid., p. 86. 

— Mahadev Desai, Day-to-Day with Gandhi, Volume 4, Varanasi, 
1969,p.86. 

— Ibid., Volume 5, Varanasi, 1970, p. 39. 

— The Collected Works, Volume 26, New Delhi, 1967, pp. 8-9. 

— Mahadev Desai, op. cit.. Volume 7, Varanasi, 1972, p. 50. 

— Ibid., p. 52. 

— Ibid., pp. 53-54. 

— Ibid., p. 55. The full text of Bishop Heber’s hymn is given in 
the Appendix at the end of this chapter. It is only one of the many 
specimens of contempt which Christians have shown for Hindus. The 
hymn was included in the official hymns of the Anglican Church in 
England and elsewhere. 

— The Collected Works, Volume 27, New Delhi, 1968, p. 434. 

^Ibid.,^.A?>5. 

— Ibid., p. 436. 

— Ibid. 

^ Ibid., ^.431. 

^ Ibid., F.43S. 


^Ibid.,^A39. 

— Ibid. 

— Mahadev Desai, op. cit., Volume 7, p. 155. 

— Ibid., pp. 161-62. 

— Ibid., p. 163. 

— Ibid., p. 164. 

^Ibid.,p. 184. 

— Ibid. 

— Ibid., pp. 185-86. 

— The Collected Works, Volume 29, New Delhi, 1968, p. 326. 

— Ibid., Volume 30, New Delhi, 1968, p. 47. 

— Ibid., Only excerpts from Rev. Scott’s letter are given in this 
Volume. In fairness to the missionary, we have reproduced the letter 
at some length from M.K. Gandhi, Christian Missions, Ahmedabad, 
1941,pp.12-13. 

^Ibid., pp. 70-71. 

— Ibid., Volume 31, New Delhi, 1968, pp. 350-51. 
^Ibid.,p.?>5\. 

— Ibid., Volume 34, New Delhi, 1969, p. 10. 

^ Ibid., ^.261. 

^Ibid., PP.Z61-62. 


^ Ibid., p. 262. 

^Ibid., pp. 262-63. 

— Ibid., Volume 35,New Delhi, 1969, p. 166. 

— Ibid., pp. 166-67. 

— Ibid., p. 249. 

^ Ibid.,p. 250. 

^Ibid., pp. 462-63. 

^ Ibid., p. 464. 

— Ibid., Volume 40. New Delhi. 1970, pp. 58-59. 

— Ibid., p.59. 

— Ibid., P. 6o. 

^-^Ibid. 

— Ibid. 

— Mr. Mott lived to publish a book. The Larger Evangelism, in 
1944 and share the Noble Prize for Peace with Emily Queen Balch in 
1946. 

Ibid.,p.?>\5. 

— Ibid., volume 45, New Delhi, 1971, pp. 233-34. 

Ibid., p. 520. 

— Ibid., Volume 46, New Delhi, 1971, p. 27. 


^ Ibid.,^.2%. 

^Ibid., pp. 28-29. 

^Ibid.,^. 109. 

^Ibid.,^. 110. 

^/^iW.,p.237. 

^//7/J.,p .238. 

^/^iW.,p.239. 

^/^iW.,p.314. 

— Ibid., Volume 48, New Delhi, 1971, p. 121. 
^Ibid.,^. 122. 

^Ibid.,^. 124. 

^Ibid., pp. 124-25. 

^Ibid.,p. 125 
^Ibid., pp. 126-127. 

^Ibid.,p. 127. 

^Ibid., pp. 437-433. 

— Ibid., Volume 52, New Delhi 1972, p. 96. 

— Ibid., p. 164. 

^Ibid., pp. 344-45. 


— Ibid., p. 365. 

— Ibid., Volume 54, New Delhi, 1973, pp. 106-107. 

— Ibid., Volume 55, New Delhi, 1973, p. 284. 

— Ibid., pp. 286-87. Earlier, Gandhiji had described Miss Mayo 
as a drain inspector. 

— Ibid., Volume 56, New Delhi, 1973, p. 234. 

^Ibid., pp. 234-35. 

^ Ibid., p. 235. 

^ Ibid., p. 236. 

^Ibid., pp. 310-11. 

— Christian Missions, p. 301. 

^Ibid.,p. 195. 

^Ibid., pp. 195-96. 

^Ibid., pp. 196-97. 

— The Collected Works, Volume 60, New Delhi, 1974, p. 323. 
John 3,16 says, “For God loved the world so much that he sent his 
only Son so that everyone who believes in him may not die but have 
eternal life.” 

^ Ibid.,p. 325. 

^ Ibid., p. 326. 

— Ibid., Volume 61, Ahmedabad, 1975, p, 46. 


^Ibid., pp. 46-47. 


117 

Ibid., p. 

47. 

118 

Ibid., p. 

68. 

119 

Ibid., P. 

456. 

120 

Ibid., p. 

455. 

121 

Ibid., p. 

456, 

122 

Ibid., p. 

455. 

123 

Ibid., P. 

456. 

124 

Ibid., p. 

455. 

125 

Ibid., p. 

456. 

126 

Ibid., p. 

455. 

127 

Ibid., pp. 455-57 

128 

Ibid., p. 

455. 

129 

Ibid., p. 

457. 

130 

Ibid., pp. 457-58 


— Ibid., Volume 62, New Delhi, 1975, pp. 332-33. Jesus’ 
bombast about himself - ‘I am He’, etc. - can be seen in John 14.6. 
Saul of Tarsus was a persecutor of Christians before his conversion to 
Christianity. He became Paul after his conversion, and a great 
persecutor of mankind at large. He is one of the darkest figures in 
human history. Some scholars have seen him as the real inventor of 
Christianity and the father of the criminal history of this creed. 


^/^iW.,p.333. 

^Ibid., pp. 333-34. 

^Ibid.,^.33A. 

— Ibid., p. 388. St. Therese or Terese is honoured as one of the 
great Christian mystics by the Catholic Church 

^/^iW.,p.388. 

— Ibid., Volume 63, New Delhi, 1976, p. 47. 

^Ibid., pp. 90-92. 

^ Ibid., ^.92. 

— Italics in source. 

^Ibid., pp. 92-94. 

— Gandhiji was in Bangalore from May 31 to June 13,1936. 

— A depressed section of Hindu society in Kerala. 

— Ibid., Volume 64, New Delhi, 1976, pp. 18-20. 

— Christian Missions, pp. 211-12. 

^Ibid.,^.2\2. 

^Ibid., pp. 213-14. 

— The reference is to the Yeola Conference called by Dr. B.R. 
Ambedkar in September 1935. The Conference had adopted a 
resolution which said, “The depressed classes must leave the Hindu 
fold and join some other religion that gives social and religious 
equality to them.” 


— The Collected Works, Volume 64, p. 35. 

— Ibid., p. 36. 

— Ibid., p. 37. 

^ Ibid., ^.3^. 

— Ibid., pp. 39-40. 

^ Ibid., AO. 

^Ibid., pp. 149-50. 

^Ibid., pp. 150-51. 

^Ibid.,^. 151. 

^Ibid.,^. 176. 

^Ibid., pp. 176-77. 

^Ibid.,^. 111. 

— This proclamation had opened Hindu temples to Harijans. 
^Ibid.,p. 178. 

^Ibid., pp. 202-03. 

— Ibid., p. 203. Emphasis added. 

^Ibid., pp.203. 

^Ibid., pp. 285-86. 

— Ibid., p. 289. The mantra is the very first one of the 
Ishopanishad: ISAvAsyamidam sarvam yatkihcit jagatyAma jagat 


Itena tyaktena bhunjithA mA gridhaH kasyacit dhanam. Gandhiji 
translated it as follows: “God pervades everything that is to be found 
in this universe. Therefore the condition of enjoyment or use of the 
necessities of life is their dedication or renunciation. Covet not 
anybody’s riches.” 

^ Ibid., p. 290. 

^ Ibid., p. 291. 

^ Ibid., p. 419. 

^Ibid., pp. 419-20. 

^ Ibid., p. 421. 

^Ibid., pp. 421-22. 

^Ibid., pp. 422-23. 

^ Ibid.,F. 423. 

— At that time, Communists were waging a civil war in Spain 
and Persecuting Christians wherever Communist power prevailed. 

^Ibid., pp. 423-24. 

^Ibid., pp. 397-98. 

^ Ibid., p. 39^. 

^Ibid., pp. 398-99. 

^ Ibid., p. 400. 

^ Ibid., p. 401. 

^Ibid., pp. 425-26. 


^Ibid., pp. 401-02. 

^Ibid., pp. 426-27. 

^ Ibid.All. 

^Ibid.,^.2\%. 

— Church Missionary Society based in London. 
^Ibid., pp. 440-41. 

— Ibid., Volume 65, New Delhi 1976, p. 47. 
^Ibid., pp. 47-48. 

^Ibid.,p.4S. 

^ Ibid., p. 19. 

^ Ibid., p. SO. 

^Ibid., pp. 80-81. 

^ Ibid., p. SI. 

^Ibid., pp. 81-82. 

^ Ibid., p.S2. 

^Ibid., pp. 91-92. 

^ Ibid., p. 92. 

^Ibid., pp. 295-96. 

^Ibid., pp. 295-96. 


— Christian Missions, p. so. 

^Ibid.,p. 103. 

^Ibid., pp. 103-04. 

^Ibid.,p. 105. 

^Ibid.,p. 104. 

^Ibid., pp. 104-05. 

^Ibid., pp. 106-07. 

^Ibid.,p. 107. 

— The Collected Works, Volume 65, pp. 316-17. 

^/^iW.,p.317. 

^Ibid., pp. 317-18. 

— Ibid., Volume 66, New Delhi, 1976, p. 63. 

— Ibid., pp. 163-64. 

— Ibid., Volume 68, New Delhi, 1977, pp. 165-66. 

— McGavaran had contributed to the missionary magazine. 

World Dominion, a fabricated report of a talk between Gandhiji on the 
one hand and Bishops Pickett and Azariah on the other. 

^ Ibid., V.i66. 

^Ibid.,p. 167. 

^Ibid.,p. 170. 


— Tambaram Series, Volume 3, Evangelism, London, 1939, p. 
126. 

— See Sita Ram Goel, Catholic Ashrams.: Sannyasins or 
Swindlers?, second England Edition, Voice of India, New Delhi, 
1994. 

— The reference is to C. Rajagopalachari who was Prime 
Minister of Madras from 1937 to 1939 when the Congress Ministry 
resigned. 

— Ibid., Volume 71, New Delhi, 1978, p. 52. 

— Ibid., p. 53. 

^Ibid.,^.5?>. 

^Ibid., pp. 79-80. 

^ Ibid., p. SO. 

— Christian Missions, pp. 288-89. 

— The Collected Works, volume 71, p. 219. 

— Ibid., p. 328. Emphasis added. 

— Ibid., Volume 72, pp. 297-98. 

Ibid., V. 299. 

^ Ibid., Volume 75, New Delhi, 1979, p. 207. 

Ibid.,^. All. 

^ Ibid., p. All. 

236a 


The Transfer of power, London, Volume II, p. 552. 



— The Collected Works, Volume 77, New Delhi, 1977, p. 296. 

— Ibid., Volume 78, New Delhi, 1979, pp. 269-70. 

^Ibid., pp. 384 and 394. 

— Ibid., Volume 79, New Delhi, 1980, p. 279. 

— Ibid., Volume 80, New Delhi, 1980, p.9. 

— Ibid., Volume 81, New Delhi, 1980, p. 432. 

— Ibid., Volume 82, New Delhi, 1980, p. 155. In 1952, only four 
years after the Mahatma’s death, Kumarappa became a drum-beater 
for Mao Tsetung and his criminal gang. At the same time he saw 
Gandhi incarnate in Communist China. He turned out to be a crank of 
rare vintage. 

— Ibid., Volume 83, New Delhi, 1981, p.ll. 

^Ibid.,p. 12. 

^ Ibid., p. 39. 

— Ibid., Volume 84, New Delhi, 1981, p. 372. 

^Ibid., pp. 440-41, 

— Ibid., Volume 85, New Delhi, 1982, p. 420. 

— Ibid., Volume 88, New Delhi, 1983, p. 96. 

Ibid.,^. All. 

— Ibid., Volume 90, New Delhi, 1984, p. 80 
^ Ibid.,V. 293. 


— Mahatma Gandhi, Hindu Dharma, Ahmedabad, 1950, p. 7. 

— Ibid., p. 36. 

^Ibid., pp. 20-21. 

^Ibid.,p. 178. 

^ Ibid., p. 22. 

^Ibid., pp. 391-92. 

^ Ibid., p. 73. 

^ Ibid., p. 291. 

^ Ibid., p. 31 A. 

^Ibid.,p.4. 

^Ibid. 

— Modern research has discovered that the Sermon on the Mount 
can be found in Jewish sources quite some time before Jesus was 
born. It was by no means a characteristic contribution of Jesus. He 
had learnt it as a Jewish rabbi and preached it, if at all, in the same 
capacity. It is significant that the Sermon is missing from St. John’s 
Gospel which imparts a divine status to Jesus and which Christian 
theology places above all other gospels. 

— Father I. Jesudasan, S.J., ‘Gandhian Perspectives on 
Missiology', Indian Church History Review, July 1970, pp. 67-68. 

^ Ibid., p. 69. 



15 

The Hoax of Human Rights 


The next encounter between Hinduism and Christianity took place in 
the Constituent Assembly which started framing independent India’s 
Constitution in 1947 and completed the work by the end of 1949. The 
dialogue centred round what the Christian participants proclaimed as the 
their fundamental human right, namely, to propagate their religion. 


The Christians were quite clear in their mind as well as 
pronouncements that the “right to propagate” religion entitled them to 1) 
receive massive financial help from foreign sources; 2) maintain and 
multiply churches and missions; 3) train and mobilize an ever expanding 
army of missionaries, native and foreign; 4) enlarge the mission 
infrastructure of seminaries, social service institutions and mass media; 
and 5) convert an increasing number of Hindus to Christianity by every 
means including fraud and material inducements. They had been holding 
meetings and passing resolutions on all these points even before the 
Constituent Assembly was mentioned in the negotiations between the 
Congress leaders and the British Cabinet Mission. 


The Hindu participants, on the other hand, did not grasp the full 
meaning of the “right to propagate religion”. They did understand that the 
word “propagate” was only a substitute for the word “convert”, and tried 
to hedge in the provision with various restrictions. But they did not realize 
or think it important that “propagation of religion” had employed and 
would employ a formidable organisational weapon forged almost entirely 
with the help of foreign money and controlled completely by foreign 
establishments including intelligence networks. Therefore, the points they 
raised in the course of the dialogue did not go to the heart of the matter. 



Mahatma Gandhi had tried to put the Christian missions in a tight spot 
by proclaiming that proselytisation was morally wrong and spiritually 
sterile if not counter-productive. He had also appealed to the missions to 
employ their enormous resources for rendering humanitarian service to the 
poor without any motive for proselytisation. But that was tantamount to 
asking and expecting a man-eater to start living on vegetarian diet. The 
only point which had registered with the missions was his ruling out any 
legislation against proselytisation and his affirmation that they would be 
free to operate in independent India. The missionaries had continued to 
maintain that they could not withhold “sharing their spiritual riches” with 
the heathens. The Mahatma’s infatuation with Jesus as a “great teacher” 
and his identification of Christianity with the Sermon on the Mount had 
only whetted their appetite for converts. It was not long before they leapt 
into renewed endeavour. 


On the other hand, the leaders of the nation who were in charge of 
framing the Constitution behaved as if they had never heard what Gandhiji 
had said vis-a-vis proselytisation. His views on the subject were not even 
mentioned in the deliberations of the sub-committee entrusted with 
finalising the clauses on fundamental rights relating to religion. Nor did his 
views figure in the relevant debates in the Constituent Assembly. One 
wonders whether this silence was maintained on his own behest or whether 
he had been side-lined. He was alive and active when the first debate on 
the subject came up in the Constituent Assembly in May 1947. 


It is also significant that the Christian leaders who had made it a point 
to pester Gandhiji in earlier years ignored him completely after India 
become independent. Either they had given him up as a hopeless job or 
were apprehensive that he might say something which could create 
difficulties for Christian missions. Instead, they concentrated on the 
leaders of the Congress Party for seeking assurances that Christian rights 
and interests would be safeguarded in the future set-up. 



What helped the Christian lobbyists a good deal was the talk about 
fundamental human rights which filled the atmosphere at the time the 
Constitution was being framed. The San Francisco Conference, had 
completed the framework of a United Nations Charter. A declaration of 
fundamental human rights was being proposed and discussed. The 
Christian missions were backed by powerful, people and establishments in 
the West. They, therefore, exercised considerable influence in the United 
Nations and were able to ensure that this declaration included their right to 
wield organisational weapons in the countries of Asia and Africa for the 
conversion of non-Christians. The politicians who mattered in India were 
either unaware of the Christian game or did not understand the 
implications of the “fundamental right to propagate religion”. They 
yielded easily when the Christian lobby pressed for inclusion of the word 
“propagate” in the clause which in its earlier version had allowed only 
freedom to profess and practise religion. 


The controllers of Christian missions in Europe and America had 
foreseen quite early in course of the Second World War that the enslaved 
countries of Asia and Africa were heading towards freedom. The future of 
Christian missions in these countries was fraught with danger. The 
missions were an integral part of Western imperialism. Leading native 
freedom fighters did not look at them with favour. It was, therefore, felt 
that the future of these missions had to be rethought and replanned. They 
had to be presented in a new perspective in the post-war world. 


In the past, propagation of Christianity and conversion of heathens 
with the help of organisational weapons, forged and financed by the West, 
had been propped up as a “divinely ordained” privilege. That was not 
going to work in the new world order which was emerging fast. 
Propagation of Christianity was, therefore, to be presented as a 
fundamental human right. Christian missions were to become champions 
of religious liberty and minority rights. 



A early as 1941 church organisations in Britain and the USA had set 
up Commissions- for projecting a post-war world order from the Christian 
point of view. The Commissions “foresaw” great opportunities for “world 
evangelization” in the “just and durable peace” that was to be ensured in 
the wake of victory over the Axis Powers. More important, the Federal 
Council of the Churches of Christ in America and Foreign Missions 
Conference of North America had set up a joint Committee on Religious 
Liberty with which the International Missionary Council was cooperating 
unofficially. The Committee completed its work at the end of 1944 and its 
findings were presented to the world at large in a 604-page book published 
by the International Missionary Council from New York in January 1945.- 


Part I of book surveyed the whole world, country by country, in order 
to pin-point “the problems of religious liberty today.” Coming to India 
under British rule, the book said, “The major difficulty is in lack of social 
liberty, rather than in deficiency of civil liberty legally formulated. It is 
extremely hard for members of most Indian groups to transfer their 
allegiance to Christianity or to any religion unless it be to the majority 
group of Hindus - or in some areas, of Moslems among whom they dwell. 
Persecutions and disabilities are severe, especially in regard to 
employment and the use of land. They rest upon the fact that transfer of 
religious allegiance brings a loss of entire status in society, including 
family position, economic relationship in village or caste guild and 
opportunities of marriage in the natural grouping. Not only do these 
hindrances tend seriously to limit accession to Christianity, even from the 
‘depressed classes’ who have little to lose and everything to gain, but they 
also serve to cut off Christians as a distinct body of persons largely 
dependent upon their own meager group for economic and social 
opportunity.”- 


The problem faced by Christian missions in some princely states of 
India was also noted. “Restrictions in certain Native States,” it was pointed 
out, “are ominous, since they suggest what the full combination of political 
rule with religious community interest may hold for wide portions of India 
in the future. Despite considerable British persuasion and influence to the 
contrary, certain Indian states prohibit the preaching of Christianity and the 
entry of missionaries within their borders. Some states forbid the erection 
of church buildings, some prohibit schools, one is tolerant of a single 
denomination. Patna recently put severe difficulties in the way of change 
from Hinduism to any other faith, using the piquant title ‘Freedom of 
Religion Act’.”- 


Looking to the future the book stated, “Rule by Indians is already well 
along in transition and is certain to be consummated, whether by gradual 
or by revolutionary change from the present mixed system in which British 
authority has long fostered the concept and the practice of self- 
government... The Congress Party has committed itself to religious 
freedom and the protection of minorities. But the restraints of British 
neutrality and British protection of minorities are irksome to the strenuous 
elements, and they may be swept away in the name of ‘Indian unity’ or 
even of ‘Hindu ism restored’. All that has been associated in fact or in the 
emotions of Indians, with foreign rule and its cultural connotations will be 
a target for attack 


Finally, it came to the main culprit - Hinduism. “It is necessary,” it 
said, “to consider further the basic nature of Hinduism, the system which 
controls the lives of a multitude half as numerous as all the peoples of 
Europe. It is a totalitarian social and economic and cultural complex knit 
together with powerful religious sanctions. Every act of life, from birth till 
death, is directed by it. Race, caste, guild or occupational grouping, tribe 
or clan, family, gods, temple and pilgrimage, literature and legend, folklore 
and local superstitions, ethical and social prescriptions, community in all 
senses of the term: they are one pervasive, controlling force - Hinduism. 


How can one renounce it? If not impossible the thought is unnatural, 
impious. Withdrawal is an outlawing of self from all established 
institutions and from normal human fellowship. Such is the background 
for the Hindu view of conversion 


Mahatma Gandhi invited pointed attention. “Gandhi,” said the book, 
“less conservative and less vehement than many Hindu leaders, has 
nevertheless on many occasions spoken his hostility to any enterprise, 
good though it is in much of its spirit and service, which has as its purpose 
or result the change of an Indian’s faith from Hinduism to another.” He 
was pinned down as inconsistent because he was a party to the resolutions 
of the Delhi Unity Conference in 1924. One of the resolutions was quoted 
as having said that “every individual is at liberty to follow any faith and to 
change it whenever he wills, and shall not by reason of such change of 
faith render himself liable to any punishment or persecution at the hands of 
the followers of the faith renounced by him.” Moreover, “Gandhi has been 
reminded in a friendly way that much of his own life has been an effort to 
influence the spiritual and moral outlook of all sorts of people ‘by speech 
or writing, by appeal to reason and emotion’ 


The book laid down 15 “important issues on religious liberty recurrent 
in the contemporary scene.”- Three of them were as follows: 

12. Does the individual have liberty to learn of other forms of 
religion than that in which he is born and trained and the liberty to 
give his allegiance to one of them? 


13. Then there is the issue of the freedom of the religious believer, 
singly or in association, to express his faith in such manner as to seek 
the adherence of others to it. Such freedom is the converse of the 
foregoing liberty. 


14. Are religious allegiance and the presentation of religion to be 
confined by state frontiers? May the believer seek religious truth and 
fellowship, or express his faith, or devote himself to religious service 
beyond the boundaries of his own state ?- 

In its part II - The Problem of Religious Liberty -, the book conceded 
that throughout its history Hindu society had solved its religious 
differences peacefully. At the same time, however, it pointed out that the 
problem of religious liberty had never been raised by Hindus and no 
guidance in this respect was available from Hindu history. “There is small 
evidence,” it said, “in Hindu literature of persecution within Hindu society 
proper. There was much controversy, religious and philosophical, and a 
good deal of variety in organization. But vague and absorptive polytheism, 
whether ethnic and static or advancing by addition and syncretism, did not 
raise clear issues of compulsion or liberty. Jainism and Buddhism were 
deviations and reforms from some aspects of the early Aryan faith- 
tradition. Their rise and progress; the standardization of Jainism as a minor 
sect of ascetic tendencies; the extension, export, the decline of Buddhism 
within a society of Hinduism - all were essentially peaceful. The changes 
came by persuasion and by slow social, pressures or movements, without 
clear conflict of group wills against other groups or against individuals.”— 


Religious intolerance and persecution, it was noted, came to India in 
the wake of Islamic invasion. The Portuguese also practised religious 
persecution. But “it is only in the political developments of recent years, in 
the missionary introduction of fresh Christian undertakings, and in the 
social and intellectual change of the contemporary scene that the issue of 
religious liberty has become apparent.” Hinduism was again held up as the 
main culprit because “The chief social persecution of Christians has come 
from Hindus” while “Christianity has had little significant contact with 
Islam in India.”— The reasons for this lack of Christian contact with Islam 
were not given. The book withheld the stark truth that Islam was in the 
same sordid business as Christianity, and that Christian missionaries were 


murdered and mission stations burnt down whenever and wherever they 
came in “significant contact with Islam”. The bandits were devising a 
strategy for attacking a soft target which Hindu society has been for quite 
some time. 


Part III of the book posed the question: What is religious liberty? 
Definitions of religious liberty given by various individuals and 
organisations were surveyed. Finally, the “statement on religious liberty” 
given by the sponsors of the joint Committee in 1944 was chosen “as a 
brief and working formulation of recent attitudes.” The statement was as 
follows: 

The right of individuals everywhere to religious liberty shall be 
recognized and subject only to the maintenance of public order and 
security, shall be guaranteed against legal provisions and 
administrative acts which would impose political, economic, or social 
disabilities on grounds of religion. 


Religious liberty shall be interpreted to include freedom to 
worship according to conscience and to bring up children in the faith 
of their parents; freedom to preach, educate, publish, and carry on 
missionary activities; and freedom to organize with others, and to 
acquire and hold property, for these purposes.— 

Part IV of the book - The Grounds of Religious Liberty - provided a 
scholarly discourse on Natural Law and Natural Rights, Religious Liberty 
and the Interests of Organised Community, Religious Liberty in Terms of 
Ethics and Philosophy, Religious Liberty in Terms of Christian Theology 
and Tradition, and the Position of the Roman Catholic Church. “The main 
historical record,” it was admitted, “and the present map of intolerance 
suggest that Christianity does not carry within itself principles, teachings, 
and practices which automatically and generally secure religious liberty 
for all men under its influence. An ethic is there, some teachings and 
practices are there, which are potentially favourable to religious liberty. 


But religious and social tendencies toward intolerance prevail over the 
elements working toward liberty... Beyond question Christians need in far 
greater measure to recognize the wrong of their intolerances, to realize the 
liberty of the spirit necessary to the Christian life and inherent - but too 
often latent - in Christian history, and to make their needed contribution to 
liberty in a world essentially non-Christian.”— 


Part V of the book discussed Religious Liberty in Law. It was noted 
that “the Modern State, of whatever type, tends to assume jurisdiction over 
all persons in its territory” and that “The individual thus possesses legal 
rights only in so far as allowed by the state.”— Nor could religious liberty 
be safeguarded by “international action” because “international relations 
are controlled by sovereign states.”— The only way out, therefore, was to 
find out “whether religious liberty is an inviolable right.” 16 The search 
spread to the arena of international law. “The development of international 
law,” it was discovered, “has been associated in history and in concept 
with the growth of religious liberty. But there is no principle or consensus 
in international law asserting an obligation of each state to accord religious 
liberty to its inhabitants.”— 


The search for “consensus in international law” formed Part VI of the 
book. It contained the joint Committee’s “conclusions and proposals.” To 
start with the existing states were placed (or evaluated) in five main and 
three subsidiary categories “according to conditions of religious liberty.”— 
India found its place in Category Ill(a) along with Anglo-Egyptian Sudan, 
Burma, Ethiopia and Nigeria. These states were found to have “freedom of 
religion limited in certain regions, with important social pressures.”— 


Next, the book provided fifteen “brief observations on important issues 
for religious liberty recurrent in the contemporary scene.”— The core 
observations were as follows: 


(12) and (13): In order that development in religion may be 
possible in any society and that individuals or groups may follow the 
expressions of religious truth which seem likely to bring them to their 
highest spiritual development, without the risks of hypocrisy and 
cramping confinement, individuals should have liberty at least from 
adolescence to learn of other forms of religion than that in which they 
are born and trained - with liberty to give allegiance thereto. 
Conversely, religious believers should naturally have liberty to 
declare and to recommend their faith to others and to invite fully 
voluntary adherence to it. Where these opportunities do not freely 
exist, religious liberty is denied or limited, and monopoly or fixity is 
sought by means of enforced ignorance and group compulsion. 


(14): Religion confined by national frontiers is politically 
bounded and is in danger of becoming in some measure a tool or 
function of the State. Individuals and groups should be free to receive 
the stimulus and challenge of spirit which may come from outside 
their state and free to be associated in religious concerns, subject, of 
course, to all proper duties of citizenship, with persons and groups 
resident in other states. Any great truth or conception of truth has a 
supra-local quality, and several of the world’s major religions are 
rightly called universal. Similarly, the normal expression of religious 
faith in service and in commendation of the faith to others is not 
confined by political boundaries... The alternatives of such normal 
liberty are either the denial of spiritual contact, the nationalizing of 
culture, in patterns of hideous danger revealed by the sealed-off 
minds of the totalitarian states primitive and sophisticated alike; or 
restriction and control for political ends, infringing religious liberty 
and limiting the benefits which should be expected from essentially 
free contacts on the religious level.— 

In this context the book cited the recommendations made by the 
Commission on The Church and State in Post-War India set up by the 
National Christian Council of India in 1944. The Commission had 
proposed: 


The Church claims freedom to proclaim its Gospel, and to receive 
into its membership those who from sincere and honest motives 
desire to join it. The Church claims this freedom to commend its 
Gospel, because it can do no other in the light of the command of its 
Founder to preach the Gospel to every creature. This argument may 
not weigh with a non-Christian government; but it is best for the 
Church to admit frankly that it desires to preach the Gospel because 
of its conviction that fullness of life and truth cannot be enjoyed apart 
from Christ. On those who cannot accept such a reason it may urge 
that religion is such a personal matter that every individual should be 
given freedom to make his own decisions in the matter. To commend 
truth as one sees it is no infringement of the liberty of another, as he 
is free if he wishes to continue in the convictions which he already 
holds. Rather it is a recognition of the responsibility of each man to 
choose what he believes... 


In pleading for freedom to commend the Gospel to all, we would 
disavow any methods of propaganda which would endanger public 
order or cause scandal and unnecessary offence. We disapprove all 
methods of propaganda which hold out material advantage as a 
motive for conversion. Furthermore, though conversion does increase 
the number of Christians, and such increase may strengthen the 
political influence of the Christian community, we disavow any desire 
for such influence. It is not our wish that Christians as a community 
should seek political influence for themselves; it is rather our wish 
that they should form a Church intent only on obeying the will of 
God. Again, we are of opinion that no minor under the age of 
eighteen should be admitted into the Christian Church without the 
consent of his parent or guardian. But in the event of parent or 
guardian becoming Christian, it is in our opinion better that division 
in families is as far as possible to be avoided.— 

Finally, the book came out with its own recommendations. “First,” it 
said, “there should be serious study and discerning advocacy of proposals 
for an International Bill of Rights or International Charter of Liberties.”— 


The program suggested by the Commission to Study the Organisation of 
Peace was summarised: “We propose that measures be taken to safeguard 
human rights throughout the world by (1) convening without delay a 
United Nations Conference on Human Rights to examine the problem, (2) 
promulgating, as a result of this conference, an international bill of rights, 
(3) establishing at this conference a permanent United Nations 
Commission on Human Rights for the purpose of further developing the 
standards of human rights and the methods for their protection, (4) seeking 
the incorporation of major civil rights in national constitutions and 
promoting effective means of enforcement in each nation, (5) recognizing 
the right of individuals or groups, under prescribed limitations, to petition 
the Human Rights Commission, after exhausting local remedies, in order 
to call attention to violations.”— 


The program was recommended to the United Nations which was in 
the process of formation. “The United Nations Declarations of January 1, 
1942,” concluded the book, “based their common action upon the 
necessity ‘to defend life, liberty, independence, and religious freedom, and 
to preserve human rights and justice in their own lands as well as in other 
lands’... The Dumbarton Oaks Agreements (Proposals for the 
Establishment of a General International Organization) of October 7, 1944 
declare that ‘the organization should facilitate solutions of international 
economic, social, and other humanitarian problems and promote respect 
for human rights and fundamental freedoms.’ The proposals center 
responsibility for this task in an Economic and Social Council, under the 
authority of the General Assembly. Thus commitments of direction are 
already made. They can be actualized by determination and persistence.”— 


There was not a word in this big book about the right of the heathens to 
defend themselves against Christian aggression euphemised as “the right 
to propagate religion”. None of the learned men who collaborated in the 
compilation of this study noted that the heathens stood wholly unarmed 
vis-a-vis the Christian missions. The heathens were in no position to 


mobilise the mammoth finances which Christian missions could do with 
considerable ease. The heathens had no seminaries where they could train 
missionaries of their own and meet the challenge of Christian legionaries. 
The heathens commanded no mass media which could defend their faith 
against the Christian blitzkrieg on any comparable footing. Nor had the 
heathens developed a scholarship which could prostitute itself in the 
service of an imperialist enterprise masquerading as a defender of human 
rights. 


Simultaneously with the publication of this pretentious book, the U.S. 
Commission met in Cleveland, Ohio, U.S .A. and set up a National Study 
Conference which suggested several improvements in the Dumbarton 
Oaks Proposals of October, 1944. The British Commission did the same. 
The suggestions were hailed by the churches in both countries and 
recommended to their governments for being taken up at the San Francisco 
Conference of the United Nations which was scheduled to meet in April- 
June 1945. 


Meanwhile, a Foreign Missions Conference had met at Toronto from 
January 5 to 8, 1945. It was “attended by 485 delegates and visitors from 
every state and province of the U.S .A. and Canada” and represented 
“every major Protestant denomination and church affiliation.” The 
Conference passed resolutions “earnestly petitioning its two governments 
of Canada and the U.S .A. to give immediate attention to their 
responsibilities in three matters basic to world organisation, security and 
peace.” One of the three matters was “responsibility for religious 
liberty.”— 


The World Council of Churches and the International Missionary 
Council exhorted church organisation all over the world to “intercede” for 
the success of the San Francisco Conference. The National Christian 
Council of India received a cable from New York stating that the 


American churches were planning special intercession on April 22 for the 
success of the San Francisco Conference and suggesting like action in 
“your constituency.” The National Christian Council Review commented, 
“Momentous issues will face the delegates to the San Francisco 
Conference of the United Nations as they assemble on April 25... A 
supreme responsibility rests at this time on the Universal Church.”— 


What this “intercession” meant became clear when the U.S. monthly, 
Christianity and Crisis, published in its June issue a report about Christian 
influence at San Francisco. “The concern,” it said, “which Church leaders 
have shown during the past decade for the development of a law-governed 
world has borne fruit... The State Department included in its group of 
advisers or consultants, representatives of certain Church organisations. 
Federal Council, Church Peace Union, Catholic Welfare, and others. These 
representatives had worked consistently and steadily to back the American 
delegates in giving what Mr. Dulles has called a ‘souT to the Charter. They 
had backed the recommendations for a commission on Human Rights and 
had urged the recognition of such in preamble and definition of the 
Assembly’s work.”— 


It seems, however, that lobbying for “religious liberty” through 
government delegations was not enough. Pressure from outside had to be 
maintained. It was with this aim that the World Council of Churches and 
the International Missionary Council set up a Commission on International 
Affairs which held its first meeting in Cambridge, England, in August 
1946. One of its aims was to make sure that “the Church should and will 
play an important part in promoting the work of the United Nations.” 
According to a spokesman of the Church, “It is imperative that Christians 
develop an intelligent understanding of what the United Nations 
Organisation is, what its duties are and the manner in which these duties 
are to be discharged.”— He added, “The American Church helped 
influence the shaping of the Charter. Upon invitation of the Department of 
State they had their consultants at San Francisco Conference. Plans are 


now being perfected whereby Churches may have ‘observers’ present at 
the public meetings of the major organs of the United Nations including 
the General Assembly.”— 


Rest is history. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted 
and proclaimed by the General Assembly of the United Nations in October 
1948 included Article 18 which read: “Everyone has the right to freedom 
of thought, conscience and -religion: this right includes freedom to change 
his religion or belief, and freedom, either alone or in community with 
others and in public or private to manifest his religion or belief in teaching, 
practice, worship and observance.”— The renewed assaults to be mounted 
by Christian missions in post-war Asia and Africa had, been camouflaged 
in clever language. 


II 


Christian missions in India were privy to these proceedings of their 
international patrons. They had gone into action even before the United 
Nations Organisation came into being. The Punjab Indian Christian 
Association held a meeting at Lahore on November 4, 1944 and adopted a 
resolution that “in view of Gandhiji’s statement that ‘conversion is the 
deadliest poison that ever sapped the fountain of truth’”, this meeting, 
“urges the leaders of the community all over India to make it known to all 
concerned that ‘To preach the gospel’ is a definite command of our master 
and an integral part of the Christian Religion, and that therefore no 
constitution for India will be acceptable to the community which does not 
guarantee freedom to every citizen to propagate his faith and to every adult 
to change his religion at his own free will without any legal let or 
hindrances.”— 


Another meeting of “Christians of all denominations” held at Nagpur 
on November 25, 1944 considered “the right of freedom to convert people 
of other faiths as an integral part of the Christian religion and inalienable 
and unalterable right of all Christians as individuals or as organized in 
Churches.”— More conferences were held at Bombay, Calcutta, Lahore 
and Madras in January and February 1945 on the occasion of the visit to 
India of Dr. J. W. Decker, Secretary of the International Missionary 
Council. He had come in order to “discover major principles, methods and 
emphasis which the Christian movement should adopt in its plan for the 
post-war decade or decades with special reference to strengthening the 
Church and its effective witness and to the collaboration and help desired 
from abroad^— They adopted similar resolutions on ‘religious liberty’.— 


The Executive Committee of the All India Council of Indian Christians 
was held in Bombay on October 27-28, 1945. It decided to start 
negotiations with ‘responsible Congress authorities’ for the “legitimate 
protection in the coming constitution of India of their rights both as a 
minority community and as a body standing for freedom of conscience and 
the full and unfettered profession, practice and teaching of their 
religion.”— On October 30, 1945 representatives of the Catholic Union of 
India and the All-India Council of Indian Christians formed a joint 
Committee with Mr. M. Ruthnaswami, Vice-Chancellor of the Annamalai 
University, as its Chairman. The Committee adopted a resolution 
“suggesting that in the future constitution of India the free profession, 
practice and propagation of religion should be guaranteed and that a 
change of religion should not involve any civil or political disability.” The 
Committee also appointed a sub-committee “to formulate proposals for a 
future constitution to be placed before the Constituent Assembly.”— 


On February 4, 1946 a Christian Deputation met the British 
Parliamentary Delegation which was visiting India at that time. Some 
members of the Delegation asked the Deputation “whether Christians 
feared that they would suffer in a self-governing India.” The Deputation 


saw “a possibility arising, specially in rural areas” but were “clear that 
they desired to have secured to them as to other religious communities - in 
the Constitution itself - the right to practise, teach and propagate their faith 
without obstruction or discrimination.”— 


The National Christian Council Review of March 1946 published an 
editorial on ‘Religious Liberty’ and announced that “a comprehensive and 
profound study of this whole subject has been completed recently by Dr. 
Searle Bates.” The words of the Council which Bates had borrowed vis-a- 
vis India had become “profound” in the process of being played back. The 
same issue published a long article by Rev. K. F. Weller of the Baptist 
Missionary Society in Orissa pointing an accusing finger at certain “Native 
States” vis-a-vis ‘religious liberty’. “These instances,” he warned, “are 
symptomatic and the situation should be watched carefully for it is a 
challenge to religious liberty which may grow in intensity in future.”— He 
was repeating what had been stated by Bates who, in turn, had repeated 
what the missionaries in India had told him. 


Rev. Stanley Jones wrote an article, ‘Opportunities for the Church 
facing Indian Nationalism’, in the Review of April 1946. He mounted a 
straight attack on Mahatma Gandhi. “There is the obvious fear,” he said, 
“which possesses many minds, Christian and Muslim, that the Congress is 
closely bound up with Hinduism; that the national renaissance and the 
renaissance of Hinduism have been simultaneous and synonymous; that 
the supremacy of the Congress will mean the supremacy of Hinduism. 
There is some basis for this fear, for the leader of the nationalist 
movement, Mahatma Gandhi, has been closely identified with the 
movement to regenerate Hinduism, especially as it concerns the 
outcastes... It is also to be regretted that he uses Ramrajya in speaking of 
the kind of India he wants to see. In his mind this is probably very 
innocent and proper but nevertheless it has not helped in the winning of 
the Muslims to the nationalist cause, nor has it made it easy for the 
Christians to feel at home, for they do not want Ramrajya either.”— These 


were exactly the charges which the Communist Party of India and the 
Indian Muslim League were heaping on the Mahatma at that time. 


Jones had no doubt that “there will be attempts made to forbid 
evangelistic work in an independent India.” But he felt sure that the 
attempts will fail. “I believe,” he concluded, “that the presentation of a 
disentangled Christ will be allowed and welcomed in free India. If it is not, 
then I do not understand the soul of India.”— He knew how to combine 
frowns with flattery. Moreover, he had his eyes on that powerful section in 
the Congress led by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru which harboured a deep- 
seated animus against Hindus and Hinduism and which could be made to 
say or do anything in order to avoid being called ‘Hindu communalists’. 


The same issue of the Review had given the ‘good news’. “It is equally 
assuring,” it reported, “to read what Pandit Nehru said while exhorting 
Indian Christians of the U.P. to vote for the two Indian Christian Congress 
candidates who were standing for election to the U.P. Legislative 
Assembly: ‘I am astonished to read some of the propaganda that is being 
issued by or on behalf of the opponents of the Congress... The cry of 
religion in danger is used when everybody knows that the fundamental 
creed of the Congress is freedom of religion and all that goes with it... 
Christians form the third largest group in the country and it is absurd for 
anyone to imagine that their religious or other rights can be suppressed or 
ignored.’”— 


The Congress Election Manifesto had proclaimed a charter of 
fundamental rights. One of the clauses assured that “Every citizen shall 
enjoy freedom of conscience and the right freely to profess and practise 
his religion, subject to public order and morality.”— What the Christians 
missed in it was their “inalienable and unalterable right to propagate 
religion.” Pandit Nehru’s assurance did not mention this specific right. But 
the assurance was ample enough to cover anything and everything. The 


Review made the point quite clear. “These utterances of persons in 
responsible positions in Indian politics,” it said, “go a long way toward 
dispelling our fears that under Swaraj Christianity will be in danger. 
However, the events of the next few months will show whether or not 
Christians have justifiable cause for thinking that they may be in for severe 
persecution. We trust in any future constitution of India that may be drawn 
up by a Constituent Assembly, religious freedom will be guaranteed and no 
let or hindrance will be placed in the way of Christians Yivmg, preaching 
and teaching their religion and taking into membership of their Church 
those who honestly accept their way of life and belief.”— The posture of 
being persecuted comes easily to those who are aggressive by nature. 


Pandit Nehru removed all Christian apprehensions in the next 
assurance he gave them. The Delhi correspondent of The Catholic Herald 
of London had an interview with Pandit Nehru and asked him pointedly, 
“What is your view of the Indian Christian representatives’ proposal to the 
Cabinet Mission that they should be free not merely to practise but also to 
propagate their religion?” Pandit Nehru replied, “It stands to reason that 
any faith whose roots are strong and healthy should spread, and to interfere 
with that right to spread seems to me to be a blow at the roots themselves... 
Unless a given faith proves a menace to public order, or its teachers 
attempt to thrust it down the unwilling throats of men of other persuasions, 
there can be no justification for measures which deprive any community of 
its rights.”— It was a habit with him to speak “generally of things in 
general”, to use his own wards. But those who knew his prejudices and 
preferences never missed the point. It was, of course, his privilege not to 
know the source from which Christianity derived its strength and not to 
care what that strength had done and was doing to its weak and 
defenceless victims. 


So the Tenth Triennial Meeting of the National Christian Council of 
India, Burma and Ceylon was held in November 1946 in an atmosphere of 
confidence in the future of Christian missions in India. Once again. 


Christian missions and churches could plan their future programme in a 
mood of optimism. The proceedings of the Meeting were reviewed by Rev. 
C.E. Abraham of the Serampore Theological College, “Another 
impression,” he wrote, “that was left on one was the immensity of the 
unfinished task of the Missions and Churches in India. A coloured map of 
India that was exhibited showing unoccupied areas... drew pointed 
attention to the huge proportions of the evangelistic task of the Church in 
India... Conditions in India, political and social, are changing quickly and 
sometimes changing beyond recognition. At such a time as this, foresight 
rather than caution, is what is demanded of missionary statesmen... Are 
future leaders being recruited in sufficient numbers? Are they being given 
sufficient training in India or abroad to assume responsibilities? Or is the 
shibboleth of ‘self-support’ being allowed to stifle initiative and to cover 
up complacency? These are questions that need to be pondered most 
conscientiously by Mission Boards in India and overseas.”— 


The Meeting set up a Commission for making recommendations on 
‘The Church in a Self-governing India’. The Commission advocated that 
churches and missions should be integrated. This was to ensure that 
foreign missions were not spotted separately. In any case, integration was 
not to hinder the flow of foreign money and manpower. “This matter of 
integration,” said the Commission, “should not of itself involve the 
diminishing of assistance by old Churches in personnel, funds-and counsel 
to the Churches in India. The National Christian Council is convinced that 
the Church in India will continue to need and to welcome as colleagues 
their brethren in faith from the older Churches to join with them in the 
building up of the Church in the fulfilment of the duty of sharing the 
evangel of Christ.”— 


Bishop C. K. Jocob read a paper in the Meeting. The Churches in 
India, according to him, were in a transition period. “Till the Churches are 
established on a firm footing,” he said, “they should continue to receive 
financial aid from the old Churches in the West. Not only for the building 


up of the Church, but for extending the evangelistic work in areas not yet 
touched, funds are needed by every section of the Church.”— 


A message which the National Christian Council received from the 
Indian Christian Association of Bombay repeated the same 
recommendation. “The Church of Christ,” said the message, “is a 
Universal Church and there can be no place in Christian work for any 
distinctions on lines of nationality, race or colour. We, therefore, 
emphatically disagree with the ill-conceived cry of ‘Foreign Missionaries 
Quit India’ raised in certain disgruntled and irresponsible quarters. 
Moreover, the Christian Church in India is not in a position to take over 
the complete responsibility for the conduct of the Christian enterprise in 
this country. We are therefore deeply conscious of the fact that we still 
need the help and cooperation of the Churches in the West - both in the 
shape of material resources and personnel.”— 


The March 1947 editorial of the Review was full of hope for the future. 
“That the Christians in India,” it said, “will be called upon to play an 
important part in the national life of the country is becoming increasingly 
clear. Not very long ago Pandit Nehru in an interview with a representative 
of The Catholic Herald said, ‘Indian Christians are part and parcel of the 
Indian people. Their traditions go to 1500 years and more and they form 
one of the many enriching elements in the country’s cultural and spiritual 
life.’” It quoted “a leading Congressman” saying to Dr. Stanley Jones that 
“what was needed for India was a character producing faith and that there 
was no doubt that the impact of Christ upon life produced miracles in 
change of character.”— 


The same issue of the Review presented a pamphlet. The Right to 
Convert, written by two Christian scholars and published by the Christian 
Literature Society. The pamphlet which was being widely advertised in the 
Christian press defined conversion as “changes of faith, together with the 


outward expressions that such changes normally involve, and efforts to 
promote such changes.” It held up the right to convert as di fundamental 
human right which could not be interfered with. It also gave “reasons and 
convincing answers” to objections against conversions, namely, “that the 
established position is true; that all religions are the same; that conversion 
denationalises; that conversion brings in denominations; that conversion is 
socially disruptive; that conversion involves religious controversy; that 
conversion uses abusive methods; and that conversion uses unfair 
methods.” The reviewer thanked the writers for their “substantial 
contribution to the literature dealing with the problem of religious liberty 
in the context of the present situation in India.”— 


The Review of May 1947 published a report of the findings of an 
informal conference of Christian leaders held at Brindaban, U.P., in 
January 1947. The report started by recording “its gratitude to the 
missionary enterprise which has led the churches of the West to bring to 
India the wonderful blessing of the Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ and 
which has promoted those activities - spiritual, moral, intellectual, social 
and economic - that have flowed there from.” It also assured “the sending 
societies that there is no thought here that the churches in India will not for 
a long time to come continue to need and to welcome the help of the older 
and the richer churches in facing the enormous tasks of regeneration and 
reconstruction of life in India.”— It informed the fund-raisers abroad that 
“a study is being made under the auspices of the National Christian 
Council of unoccupied fields and of the needs especially of the tribal areas 
in order that an appeal may be made to all concerned and the efforts of 
new workers in pioneer fields be directed to the best effect.” It concluded 
by saying that “/« regard to religious liberty it was agreed that while doing 
all possible through every channel to secure fundamental human rights for 
all, yet in every situation the church should go forward courageously and 
not be too much troubled by state action.”— 


Ill 


Meanwhile, the Advisory Committee on Fundamental Rights, set up by 
the Constituent Assembly on January 24, 1947, had finalised the Draft 
Articles which included ‘Rights relating to Religion’. As related earlier, 
the Election Manifesto of the Congress Party had assured to every citizen 
‘freedom of conscience and the right freely to profess and practise his 
religion subject to public order and morality’. The Advisory Committee on 
Fundamental Rights held its first meeting on February 27, 1947 and 
elected Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel as its Chairman. The Committee then set 
up a Sub-committee to deal specifically with Fundamental Rights as 
distinguished from Minority Rights, etc. Acharya J. B. Kripalani was 
elected its Chairman. Rajkumari Amrit Kaur was the Christian 
representative in the Sub-Committee. 


On March 17, 1947 Shri K. M. Munshi presented to the Sub¬ 
committee a Note and Draft Articles on Fundamental Rights. The Rights 
to Religion under Article Ill included the following clauses among others: 

(1) All citizens are equally entitled to freedom of conscience and 
to the right freely to profess and practise religion in a manner 
compatible with public order, morality or health: 


Provided that the economic, financial or political activities 
associated with religious worship shall not be deemed to be included 
in the right to profess or practise religion. 


(6) No person under the age of eighteen shall be free to change his 
religious persuasion without the permission of his parent or guardian. 


(7) Conversion from one religion to another brought about by 
coercion, undue influence or the offering of material inducement is 



prohibited and is punishable by the law of the Union.— 

Many meetings of the Sub-committee were held till its final report was 
submitted to the Advisory Committee on Fundamental Rights on April 16, 
1947. The changes which the Draft Articles underwent on various dates 
are being narrated below. 

March 26,1947 

Article VI — Clause (1): All persons are equally entitled to 
freedom of conscience and the right freely to profess and practise 
religion in a manner compatible with public order, morality or health. 


Explanation II: The right to profess and practise religion shall 
not include economic, financial, political or other secular activities 
associated with religious worship.— 


March 27,1947 

Clause (6) of Article VI was accepted in the following form: 


No person under the age of 18 shall be converted to any religion 
other than one in which he was born or be initiated into any religious 
order involving loss of civil status. 

Clause (7) of Article VI was passed in the following form: 


Conversion from one religion to another brought about by 
coercion or undue influence shall not be recognized by law and the 
exercise of such coercion or undue influence shall be an offence.— 


March 29,1947 


Clause (1) of Article VI as revised on March 26, 1947 was 
decided to be amplified so as to read as follows: 


All persons are equally entitled to freedom of conscience and the 
right freely to profess and practise religion in a manner compatible 
with public order, morality or health and with the other rights 
guaranteed by the Constitution.— 

The numbering of clauses continued getting changed as they were 
arranged and rearranged under Chapter I. They stood as under on 
successive dates: 

April 3,1947 

16. All persons are equally entitled to freedom of conscience and 
the right freely to profess and practise religion subject to public order, 
morality or health and to the other provisions of this chapter. 


Explanation II: The right to profess and practise religion shall 
not include any economic, financial, political or other secular 
activities that may be associated with religious worship. 


Explanation III: No person shall refuse the performance of civil 
obligations or duties on the ground that his religion so requires. 


22. No person under the age of 18 shall be converted to any 
religion other than the one in which he was bom or be initiated into 


any religious order involving a loss of civil status. 


23. Conversion from one religion to another brought about by 
coercion or undue influence shall not be recognized by law and the 
exercise of such coercion or undue influence shall be an offence.— 

April 14,1947 

Clause 16 was decided to be redrafted as follows: 


“All persons are equally entitled to freedom of conscience, to 
freedom of religious worship and to freedom to profess religion 
subject to public order, morality or health and to the other provisions 
of this chapter.” 


Explanation II: The above rights shall not include any economic, 
financial, political or other secular activities that may be associated 
with religious worship. 

Explanation III: No change.— 

There was no discussion on Clauses 22 and 23 which were left unchanged. 

April 15,1947 

Clause 22: For the words ‘converted to’ substitute the words 
‘made to join or profess’. 


Clause 23: In the third line, omit the words ‘or undue influence’. 
Dr. Ambedkar proposed that the clause should end with the words 
‘recognized by law’ but this was not accepted by the Committee.— 


April 16,1947 

16. All persons are equally entitled io freedom of conscience, to 
freedom of religious worship and to freedom to profess religion 
subject to public order, morality or health and to the other provisions 
of this chapter. 


Explanation II: The above rights shall not include any economic, 
financial, political or other secular activities that may be associated 
with religious worship. 


Explanation III: No person shall refuse the performance of civil 
obligations or duties on the ground that his religion so requires. 


21. No person under the age of 18 shall be made to join or profess 
any religion other than the one in which he was bom or be initiated 
into any religious order involving a loss of civil status. 


22. Conversion from one religion to another brought about by 
coercion or undue influence shall not be recognized by law and the 
exercise of such coercion shall be an offence.— 

By now Clauses 22 and 23 had been renumbered as 21 and 22. This 
draft was referred by the Advisory Committee to the Sub-committee on 
Minorities and some more changes were made in it on different dates. 


April 17,1947 


Meeting of the Sub-Committee on Minorities examined the draft 
clauses recommended by the Fundamental Rights Sub-committee. 


Clause 16. Mr. Ruthnaswamy pointed out that certain religions 
such as Christianity and Islam, were essentially proselytizing 
religions, and provision should be made to permit them to propagate 
their faith in accordance with their tenets.— 

April 18,1947 

In the Sub-Committee on Minorities meeting: 


Clause 21. Mr. Ruthnaswamy: Its provisions will break up family 
life. A minor should be allowed to follow his parents in any change of 
religion or nationality which they may adopt. 


Clause 22. Mr. Rajagopalachari questioned the necessity of this 
provision, when it was covered by the ordinary law of the land, e.g. 
the Indian Penal Code.— 

April 19,1947 


H. C. Mookerjee, Chairman of the Minorities Sub-Committee, made 
the following recommendations: 

Clause 16: The clause may be redrafted as follows: 


“All persons are equally entitled to freedom of conscience and the 
right freely to profess, practise and propagate religion subject to 
public order, morality or health and to the other provision of the 
chapter; and that in Explanation 2 for the words ‘religious worship’, 
religious practice ‘should be substituted.’ 

Clause 21: This clause may be redrafted as follows: 


“(a) No person under the age of 18 shall be made to join or 
profess any religion other than the one in which he was born, except 
when his parents themselves have been converted and the child does 
not choose to adhere to his original faith; 

“Nor shall such person be initiated into any religious order 
involving a loss of civil status. 


“(b) No conversion shall be recognized unless the change of faith 
is attested by a Magistrate after due inquiry.”— 


April 21,1947 

In this meeting of the Advisory Committee the following discussion 
was held: 

M. Ruthnaswamy: The word ‘propagate’ is a well known word. 
It includes not only preaching but other forms of propaganda made 
known by modern developments like the use of films, radio, cinemas 
and other things. 


K. M. Munshi: The word might be brought, I think, to cover even 
forced conversion. Some of us opposed it. I am not in favour of it. So 
far as the ‘freedom of speech’ is concerned it carries sufficient 
authority to cover any kind of preaching. If the word ‘propaganda’ 
means something more than preaching, you must know what it is and 
therefore I was opposed to this introduction of the word 
‘propaganda’. 


Alladi Krishnaswami Ayyar: Even in the American continent we 
do not have these practices as a special right, because we have 
freedom of speech. We have freedom of conscience. You have got the 
freedom of the press which is involved in the freedom of speech and 
writing. Therefore why place in the forefront of our country this 
propagation of particular religious faith and belief? I personally do 
not recognise the right of propagation. 


Govind Ballabh Pant: At the worst it is redundant and as so 
many members want it we had better introduce it. 

K. M. Munshi: It is not a redundant word. 


Chairman: Let us take votes on it. Those who are in favour of 
retaining the word ‘propagate’ may raise their hands. (The 
amendment was accepted.)— 

Clauses 21 and 22 were taken up after some time and the following 
discussion ensued: 

Secretary: This has been redrafted by the Minorities Committee 
like this: (a) No person under the age of 18 shall be made to join or 
profess any religion other than the one in which he was born except 
when his parents themselves have been converted and the child does 


not choose to adhere to his original faith; nor shall such person be 
initiated into any religious order involving a loss of civil status, (b) 
No conversion shall be recognized unless the change of faith is 
attested by a Magistrate after due inquiry. 


Chairman: I consider these are matters to be left to legislation. 
(With the concurrence of the House) Clause 21 is deleted. We may 
take up clause 22. This clause too is unnecessary, and may be deleted. 
This is not a fundamental right. 

Frank Anthony: These are matters which are absolutely vital to 
the Christians; clause 22 about conversion. 

M. Ruthnaswamy: The deletion of the clause allows conversion. 

Frank Anthony: You are leaving it to legislation. The legislature 
may say tomorrow that you have no right. 

Chairman: Even under the present law, forcible conversion is an 
offence. 


Syama Prasad Mookerjee: There is significance with regard to 
the civil law. If a person is converted by undue influence or coercion, 
the rights do not relate to the point at which he was converted. 


Chairman: What you really want is that society will not 
recognize forcible conversions. It is for the society and not for the 
law. 


Syama Prasad Mookerjee: Clause 22 should not be deleted, it 
may not be recognized by law. Let us be clear about facts. If a person 



is converted to another religion even by undue influence... 

Chairman: Is not the exercise of such undue influence an 
offence? 


Syama Prasad Mookerjee: I am talking about the first part. If 
there is conversion by coercion, it does not put back the civil rights of 
the person as before. 

Chairman: We cannot have a fundamental right for every 
conceivable thing. We are not legislating. 


Bakshi Tek Chand: Take the recent case of a Sikh who was 
forcibly converted in Rawalpindi District. The Sikh society took him 
back later. Now what is the position of his rights in-between these 
two times? 


Chairman: That was forcible conversion. Forcible conversion is 
no conversion. We won’t recognise it. “Conversion from one religion 
to another brought about by undue influence shall not be recognised 
by law.” We drop the last line.— 


April 22,1947 

The meeting of the Advisory Committee decided as follows: 
Clause 16 should be redrafted as: 


“All persons are equally entitled to freedom of conscience and the 
right freely to profess, practise and propagate religion subject to 


public order, morality or health, and to the other provisions of this 
chapter. 


“(Note: It was agreed that Messrs Rajagopalachari and S. P. 
Mookerjee should submit a draft proviso to this clause permitting 
social legislation which may affect religious practice.) 


“Explanation 2: The above rights shall not include any 
economic, financial, political or other secular activities that may be 
associated with religious practice. 


Explanation 3: The freedom of religious practice guaranteed in 
this clause shall not debar the State from enacting laws for the 
purpose of social welfare and reform. 

“(Note: The decision to insert the words ‘religious practice’ was 
taken by a majority of 2 votes.) 

“Clause 21: Deleted. 

“Clause 22 should be redrafted as follows: 

“Conversion from one religion to another brought about by 
coercion or undue influence shall not be recognized by law.”— 


April 23,1947 

The clauses were renumbered and finalised as follows: 

13. All persons are equally entitled to freedom of conscience and 
the right freely to profess, practise and propagate religion subject to 


public order, morality or health, and to the other provisions of this 
chapter. 


Explanation 2: The above right shall not include any economic, 
financial, political or other secular activities that may be associated 
with religious practice. 


Explanation 3: The freedom of religious practice guaranteed in 
this clause shall not debar the State from enacting laws for the 
purpose of social welfare and reform. 

17. Conversion from one religion to another brought about by 
coercion or undue influence shall not be recognized by law.— 

By now Clause 16 had become Clause 13 and Clause 22 had become 
Clause 17. 


Thus even before India attained independence, a criminal ideology had 
been recognized as a religion, a colony crystallized by Christian-Western 
imperialism had been accorded the status of a minority community, and 
gangsterism financed and controlled from abroad had received a new lease 
of life. 


It is true that high pressure propaganda mounted by powerful 
establishments in Europe and America had contributed considerably to the 
success of this conspiracy. But Indian leaders were no less guilty of 
sponsoring the sin, for one reason or the other, as we shall see. 


Footnotes: 


- The British body was the Commission on International 
Friendship and Social Responsibility. Its counterpart in the U.S.A. 
was the Commission on a just and Durable Peace set up under the 
Chairmanship of Mr. John Foster Dulles, the future Secretary of State. 

- M. Searle Bates, Religious Liberty: An Inquiry, New York, 

1945. 

- Ibid., pp. 56-57. 

- Ibid., p. 57. Patna was a princely state in Orissa. 

-Ibid., pp. 57-58. 

- Ibid., p. 59. Emphasis added. 

- Ibid., p. 61. 

^Ibid.,^. 130. 

^Ibid,p. 131. 

— Ibid., p. 267. Incidentally, what was an asset of I-Hindu culture 
in the context of religious tolerance became a liability in the context 
of religious liberty! 

— Ibid., p. 271. Whatever the context, credit must go to 
Christianity! 

^ Ibid., ^.309. 

— Ibid., pp. 431-432. Thus Christianity, with all its intolerance, 
was found to contain the seeds of religious liberty! But Hinduism, 
with all its tolerance, could not claim that credit! In simple language, 
what the learned exercise wanted to say was that religious liberty was 
a by-product of religious intolerance and consequent conflict. One 
had to be a bandit before one could hope to be a saint. 


— Ibid., p. 474. Italics in source. 

— Ibid., p. 475. 

— Ibid., p. 476. Emphasis added. 

— Ibid., p. 54. 

— Ibid., pp. 546-54. 

^Ibid.,^.5Al. 

'^Ibid.,^.5A9. 

— Ibid., pp. 551-552. It was forgotten that the totalitarian states 
Fascist, Communist, Nazi - were creations of the Christian ethos 
which had dominated Europe during preceding centuries. 

— Ibid., p. 563. 

^ Ibid., ^.513. 

— Ibid., p. 576. 

— Ibid., p. 579. 

— The National Christian Council Review, August 1945, p. 137. 
— Ibid., March 1945. p. 56. 

— Ibid., December 1945, pp. 212-13. 

— Ibid., February 1947, p. 56. 

^Ibid.,V.51. 

— The United Nations and Human Rights, published by the UNO, 
New York, 1984, p. 242. Emphasis added. 


— The National Christian Council Review, January 1945, p. 12. 

— Ibid., p. 31. 

^Ibid.,-p. 14. 

— Ibid., p. 81. Emphasis added. 

— Ibid., January 1946, p. 32. 

— Ibid., December 1945, pp. 239-41. 

^Ibid., April 1946, p. 120. 

— Ibid., March 1946, p. 81. 

^Ibid., April 1946, p. 99. 

— Ibid., p. 101. “Disentangled Christ” means Christ tom out of 
Christian history. That criminal history which had been created, 
without a doubt by Christ, the one and only saviour, had come under 
fire in an age which had, by and large, freed itself from Christian 
monolatry. 


— Ibid., p. 93. 

— Ibid., February 1946, p. 62. Emphasis added. 

— Ibid., April 1946, p. 94. Emphasis added. 

— Ibid., November 1946, pp. 335-36. 

— Ibid., January 1947, pp. 12-13. The proposal of some 
‘nationalist’ Christians that the Church in India should be self- 
supporting in order to be independent, was not relished by most 
Christians, particularly the missionaries. 

^Ibid.,p. 17. 


^ Ibid.,^.32. 

— Ibid., February 1947, p. 52. 

— Ibid., March 1947, p. 103. Fifteen hundred will become two 
thousand years in Pandit Nehru’s next pronouncement about the 
presence of Christianity in India. 

^Ibid., pp. 142-43. 

— Ibid., May 1947, p. 243. 

— Ibid., p. 244. Emphasis in source. 

— B. Shiva Rao, The Framing of India’s Constitution, Select 
Documents, Volume II, Bombay, 1967, p. 76. Emphasis added. 

— Ibid., p. 124. Emphasis added. Explanation I relates to Sikhs 
and is not relevant in the context of Christianity. 

^Ibid.,^. 125. 

— Ibid., p. 131. Emphasis added. 

— Ibid., p. 140. Emphasis added. 

— Ibid., p. 165. Emphasis added. 

^Ibid.,^. 166. 

— Ibid., pp. 173-74. Emphasis added. 

— Ibid., p. 201. Emphasis added. 

^ Ibid.,^.203. 

— Ibid., pp. 208-09. Emphasis added. 


^Ibid., pp. 267-68. 

^Ibid., pp. 271-72. 

— Ibid., pp. 290-91 Emphases added. 

— Ibid., p. 298. Emphasis added. 


16 

Debate in the Constituent Assembly 


On April 29, 1947, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel presented to the 
Constituent Assembly the interim report on Fundamental Rights as 
submitted by the Advisory Committee. Clause 13 and 17 among the 
‘Rights relating to religion’ generated a debate which took place on May I. 
It was started by Shri K. M. Munshi who moved an amendment for 
rewording Clause 17 to read as follows: “Any conversion from one 
religion to another of any person brought about by fraud, coercion or 
undue influence or of a minor under the age of 18 shall not be recognised 
by law.”- Explaining the amendment with regard to “conversion of a 
minor”, Shri Munshi said, “As a matter of fact, it was proposed by one or 
the other Committee in some form or other, and it is the general feeling 
that this clause should be restored in this form, - any conversion of a minor 
under the age of 18 shall not be recognised by law. The only effect of non¬ 
recognition by law would mean that even though a person is converted by 
fraud or coercion or undue influence or be converted during his minority 
he will still in law be deemed to continue to belong to the old religion and 
his legal rights will remain unaffected by reason of his conversion. The 
idea behind this proposal is that very often, if there are conversions by 
fraud or undue influence or during minority, certain changes in the legal 
status take place, certain rights are lost. This will have only this effect that 
the rights will remain exactly the same as at the moment a person was 
converted by fraud or coercion or undue influence and in the case of a 
minor at the moment of conversion .”- 


Mr. Frank Anthony rose to move an amendment to Shri Munshi’s 
amendment. He said he wanted to add the words “except when the parents 
or surviving parents have been converted and the child does not choose to 
adhere to its original faith.” In support of his suggestion, he said, “I agree 
that conversion under undue influence, conversion by coercion or 


conversion by fraud should not be recognised by law. I am only interested 
in this question, Sir, on principle. My community does not propagate. We 
do not convert, nor are we converted. But I do appreciate how deeply, how 
passionately millions of Christians feel on this right to propagate their 
religion. I want to congratulate the major party for having, in spite of its 
contentious character, retained the words ‘right to practise and propagate 
their religion’. Having done that, I say that after giving with one hand this 
principal fundamental of Christian rights, do not take it away by this 
proviso, ‘or of a minor under the age of 18’. I say that if you have this 
particular provision, or if you place an absolute embargo on the conversion 
of a minor, you will place an embargo absolutely on the right of 
conversion. You will virtually take away the right to convert. Because, 
what will happen? Not a single adult who is a parent, however deeply he 
may feel, however deeply he may be convinced, will ever adopt 
Christianity, because, by this clause you will be cutting off that parent 
from his children. By this clause you will say, although the parents may be 
converted to Christianity, the children shall not be brought up by these 
parents in the faith of the parents. You will be cutting at the root of family 
life. I say it is contrary to the ordinary concepts of natural law and justice. 
You may have your prejudices against conversion; you may have your 
prejudices against propagation. But once having allowed it, I plead with 
you not to cut at the root of family life. This is a right which is conceded in 
every part of the world, the right of parents to bring up their children in the 
faith that the parents want them to pursue. You have your safeguards. You 
have provided that conversion by undue influence, conversion by fraud, 
conversion by coercion shall not be recognised by law. You have even 
given discretion to the child provided it has attained the age of discretion 
to adhere to its original faith. The wording is ‘and the child does not 
choose to adhere to its original faith’. If both the parents are converted and 
if they want their children to be brought up as Christians, if these children 
have reached the age of discretion and say that in spite of the conversion of 
their parents, they do not want to be brought up as Christians, under the 
restriction which I have introduced, they will not be brought up in the 
Christian faith.”- 


He was clear in his mind that the “right to propagate” meant or 
included in its ambit the “right to convert” not only adults but minors as 
well. “I realise,” he concluded, “how deeply certain sections of this House 
feel on this right. But I do ask you, having once conceded the right to 
propagate, to concede this in consonance with the principles of family law 
and in consonance with the principles of natural law and justice .”- 


The next member to speak was Shri R. R Thakur. He said, “Sir, I am a 
member of Depressed Classes. This clause of the Fundamental Rights is 
very important from the standpoint of my community. You know well. Sir, 
that the victims of these religious conversions are ordinarily from the 
Depressed Classes. The preachers of other religions approach these classes 
of people, take advantage of their ignorance, extend all sorts of 
temptations and ultimately convert them. I want to know from Mr. Munshi 
whether ‘fraud’ covers all these things. If it does not cover, I should ask 
Mr. Munshi to re-draft this clause so that fraud of this nature might not be 
practised on these depressed classes. I should certainly call these ‘fraud’. 

The rest of the debate is being reproduced below:- 


The Hon’ble Rev. J. J. M. Nichols-Roy (Assam: General): Mr. 

President, Sir, it appears to me that the clause as it came out of the 
Advisory Committee is sufficient and should not be amended at all. The 
amendment seeks to prevent a minor, who is of twelve years of age, or 
thirteen years of age, up to eighteen years of age from exercising his own 
conscience. The age limit may be quite right in law. But to think that a 
youth under the age of eighteen does not have a conscience before God 
and, therefore, he cannot express his belief is wrong. That side of the 
question must be appropriately considered. There is a spiritual side in 
conversion which ought to be taken notice of by this House. Conversion 
does not mean only that a man changes his form of religion from one 
religion to another, or adopts a different name of religion, such as, a Hindu 
becomes a Christian. But there is spiritual aspect of conversion, that is, the 


connection of the soul of man with God, which must not be overlooked by 
this House. I know there are those who change their religion being 
influenced by material considerations, but there are others who are 
converted being under the influence of spiritual power. When a boy feels 
that he is called by God to adopt a different faith, no law should prevent 
him from doing that. The consciences of those youths who want to change 
their religion and adopt another religion from a spiritual standpoint should 
not be prevented from allowing these youths to exercise their right to 
change their legal status and change their religion. We know. Sir, in the 
history of Christianity, there have been youths, and I know personally, 
there have been many youths, who have been converted to Christianity, 
who are ready to die for their conviction and who are ready to lose 
everything. I myself was converted when I was about fifteen years old 
when I heard the voice of God calling me. I was ready to lose anything on 
earth. I was ready to suffer death even. I did not care for anything save to 
obey and follow the voice of God in my soul. Why should a youth who has 
such a call of God be prevented by law from changing his religion and 
calling himself by another name when he feels before God that he is 
influenced by the Spirit of God to do that an is ready even to sacrifice his 
life for that. This part of the amendment about minors is absolutely wrong 
when we consider it from the spiritual standpoint. From the standpoint of 
conscience I consider that it is altogether wrong not to allow a youth from 
the age of twelve to eighteen to exercise his own conscience before God. It 
will oppress the consciences of the youths who want to exercise their 
religious faiths before God. Therefore, I am against this amendment as it 
is. The youths should be allowed to follow their own conviction if they 
have any, and should not be forced to do anything against their own 
conviction. Why should the law not allow them if they themselves do not 
care for their former legal status? Why should they be prevented from 
changing their religion? Why should their consciences be oppressed? That 
is a very important point. Sir, to be considered by this House. This 
freedom I consider to be a Fundamental Right of the youths. No law 
should be made which will work against good spiritual forces. India, 
especially, is a country of religions, a country where there is religious 
freedom. If this amendment is carried in this House, it will only mean that 
in making a law to prevent the evil forces our minds lose sight of the real 
religious freedom which the youths of this land ought to have. Therefore, I 



am against this very principle of forcing the youths by not allowing them 
to exercise their religious conviction according to their consciences. I 
would suggest, Sir, that if in the amendment moved by Mr. Anthony the 
words ‘or save when the minor himself wants to change his religion’ are 
included, then I do not object to this amendment. I am against any 
conversion by undue influence or by fraud or coercion. When we make a 
law against all these evils we should be careful to see that law does not 
oppress the consciences of the youths who also need freedom .- 


The Hon’ble Shri Purushottamdas Tandon (United Provinces: 
General): Mr. President, I am greatly surprised at the speeches delivered 
here by our Christian brethren. Some of them have said that in this 
Assembly we have admitted the right of every one to propagate his 
religion and to convert from one religion to another. We Congressmen 
deem it very improper to convert from one religion to another or to take 
part in such activities and we are not in favour of this. In our opinion it is 
absolutely futile to be keen on converting others to one’s faith. But it is 
only at the request of some persons, whom we want to keep with us in our 
national endeavour that we accepted this. Now it is said that they have a 
right to convert young children to their faith. What is this? Really this 
surprises me very much. You can convert a child below eighteen by 
convincing and persuading him but he is a child of immature sense and 
legally and morally speaking this conversion can never be considered 
valid. If a boy of eighteen executes a transfer deed in favour of a man for 
his hut worth only Rs. 100/- the transaction is considered unlawful. But 
our brethren come forward and say that the boy has enough sense to 
change his religion. That the value of religion is even less than that of a 
hut worth one hundred rupees. It is proper that a boy should be allowed to 
formally change his religion only when he attains maturity. 


One of my brethren has said that we are taking away with the left hand 
what we gave the Christians with our right hand. Had we not given them 
the right to convert the young ones along with the conversion of their 
parents they would have been justified in their statement. What we gave 


them with our right hand is that they have a right to convert others by an 
appeal to reason and after honestly changing their views and outlook. The 
three words, ‘coercion’, ‘fraud’ and ‘undue influence’ are included as 
provisos and are meant to cover the cases of adult converts. These words 
are not applicable to converts of immature age. Their conversion is 
coercion and undue influence under all circumstance. How can the young 
ones change their religion? They have not the sense to understand the 
teachings of your scriptures. If they change their religion it is only under 
some influence and this influence is not fair. If a Christian keeps a young 
Hindu boy with him and treats him kindly the boy may like to live with 
him. We are not preventing this. But the boy can change his religion 
legally only on attaining maturity. If parents are converts why should it be 
necessary that their children should also change their religion? If they are 
under the influence of their parents they can change their religion on 
maturity. This is my submission .- 

Mr C. E. Gibbon (C. P. & Berar: General): It is quite 


The Hon’ble Shri Purushottamdas Tandon: I am speaking. Sir, as a 
Congressman. I say that the majority of Congressmen do not like this 
process of making converts (interruption), but in order to carry our 
Christian friends with us... 

Mr. C. E. Gibbon: I do not think. Sir, that the Speaker is competent to 
speak for all Congressmen. 

Some Hon’ble Members: Why not? 


Shri Balkrishna Sharma (United Provinces: General): The Speaker 
has every right to speak on behalf of most of the Congressmen. He is most 
certainly entitled to do so. 


The Hon’ble Shri Purushottamdas Tandon: I know Congressmen more 
than my friend over there. I know their feelings more intimately than 
probably he has ever had an opportunity of doing, and I know that most 
Congressmen are opposed to this idea of ‘propagation’. But we agreed to 
keep the word ‘propagate’ out of regard for our Christian friends. But now 
to ask us to agree to minors also being converted is, I think. Sir, going too 
far. It is possible that parents having a number of children are converted 
into some other faith but why should it be necessary that all these children 
who do not understand religion should be treated as converts? I submit it is 
not at all necessary. The law of guardianship will see about it. Guardians 
can be appointed to look after these children, and when they grow up, if 
they feel that Christianity is a form of religion which appeals to their 
minds they will he at liberty to embrace it. That much to my Christian 
friends. 


I understand. Sir, that it is possible that difficulties may be raised by 
some lawyers. What is the legal difficulty about this matter? The ordinary 
law of guardianship will see about this. When we say that minors cannot 
be converted, that implies that when parents go to another faith and they 
have a number of children to look after the law of the country will take 
care of those children. You can always enact a law of guardianship and 
you can, if necessary, add to the laws which at present exist on the subject 
so that in such cases the minors should be taken care of. I do not. Sir, 
therefore, see that there is any legal difficulty in the way of the amendment 
which Mr. Munshi has proposed being accepted. I heartily support Mr. 
Munshi’s amendment.. .- 


Shri Ranmath Goenka: My point of order is. Sir, that under clause 13 
which we have passed, all persons are equally entitled of freedom of 
conscience. ‘All persons’ must necessarily include at least those persons 
who have attained the: age of discretion. It is not necessary that they must 
attain the age of 18 before developing conscience. It may be at the age of 
twelve, fifteen, sixteen or seventeen. If we pass clause 17 and prescribe the 


age of 18, it will be inconsistent with clause 13 which we have just now 
passed.— 


Shri Ananthasayanam Ayyangar: Sir, I want to oppose this point of 
order raised by Mr. Goenka in a different way. The mover of this point of 
order said he has no objection to persons who are of the age of discretion 
being converted. But the age of discretion has not been defined anywhere. 
It is open to this Assembly to say that the age of discretion is eighteen. 
Therefore, there is really no point of order, or there is no point in this point 
order. 


Mr. D. N. Datta: Mr. President, Sir, I feel that the whole of this clause 
17 should go to the Fundamental Rights Committee and I would be glad if 
the whole clause could be deleted. I know the reasons for enumerating this 
under the Fundamental Rights, because we are now working under the 
present setting. But as it is going to be enumerated in the Fundamental 
Rights, it has to be seen. Sir, whether the amendment of Mr. Anthony 
should be accepted. Mr. Anthony wants that the option of the minors to 
join the religion they like on attaining majority, should be retained, just as 
the choice is given to Mohammadan children given in marriage during 
minority to repudiate the marriage on attaining majority, - what we call the 
option of puberty. A similar right he intends to be given to the children of 
the parents who have been converted. On attaining majority the child shall 
have the right of declaring whether he adheres to his original faith or 
whether he will join the faith of his parents who were converted. I for 
myself, do not see any reason, why that right should not be given to the 
child on attaining majority. On attaining, he may declare, if he was a 
Hindu, that he will adhere to Hinduism or if his parents have taken to 
Christianity, whether he will become a Christian. I think this right should 
not be taken away. It should be given and how it is to be given, it is for the 
Drafting Committee, or better still, that it should go to the Fundamental 
Rights Committee to determine whether this clause should remain or how 
it should remain. And before I go, I must say that the remark of Mr. 
Tandon that the majority of the Congress members are not in favour of 


introducing the word ‘propagate’ in clause 13 is not correct. This matter 
was discussed yesterday and the majority were in favour of keeping the 
word ‘propagate’. Therefore, the contention of Mr. Tandon is not correct.— 


Rev. Jerome D’Souza (Madras: General): Mr. President, I regret. Sir, 
that this discussion should have taken a turn which makes it look as if it is 
almost exclusively a minority problem, and as a result of that, degree of 
heat has been imported into it which most of us regret very much indeed. 
Sir, when this matter was discussed at the committee stage, quite 
independently from the question of minorities, legal difficulties with which 
the question bristles were brought home to us by men of the highest 
authority like Sir Alladi. As far as the minority rights are concerned, I can 
only say this, that the way in which clause 13 has been handled by this 
House is so reassuring and so encouraging to the minorities that we have 
no reason at all to quarrel or to ask for stronger assurances. That attitude 
must provoke on the part of the minorities an equally trustful attitude 
which I hope will inspire future relations and future discussions. I 
appreciate Mr. Anthony’s stand that this is a question of wider nature of 
principle and family authority. I assure you I am speaking from that point 
of view. This question of conversion of minors may affect not only 
majorities in relation to minorities but the minorities among themselves, - 
one Christian group in relation to Another Christian group, as Catholics 
and Protestants, and so on. But among all sections, in regard to the 
authority of a man over his family, I think certain rights should be assured 
and must be part of fundamental rights. We have nothing in these 
fundamental rights that safeguards or encourages or strengthens the family 
in an explicit way, and indeed I do not think this is necessary at this stage, 
because that is not a justiciable right. There are certain constructions where 
the wish of the State to protect and encourage the family is explicitly 
declared. I hope in the second part, among these fundamental rights which 
are not justiciable, some such declaration or approbation of the institution 
and rights and privileges associated with family life will be introduced. It 
may perhaps be thought that in our country such a declaration is not 
necessary because among us the strongest family feeling is universal; we 
have not merely individual or unitary families but we have also joint 


families. I believe the discussion on this point has been partly influenced 
by that background of the joint family system. I am sure that Tandonji if I 
may be permitted to refer to him by name, when he was speaking of the 
minor child of converted parents, was thinking really in terms of the joint 
family where there are people ready to take over and bring up such 
children’ But we are legislating for all sections of our people, for those 
also who are not in joint families but in unitary families. We are legislating 
for them, and therefore, some provisions must be made which, in the last 
analysis, will safeguard the authority of the parent, both parents or the 
surviving parent, in particular, as Mr. Anthony has said, in regard to 
nannies in the arms of their mothers. To take them away from the mother 
or father who are one with them, practically identified physically and 
juridically with them, is to introduce into our legislation an element which 
certainly weakens the concept of the authority and sanctity of the family. 
On this ground, as well as on the legal implications to which attention has 
been drawn, I mean difficulties in connection with the death, the marriage, 
the succession rights, of these minors, I oppose Mr. Munshi’s amendment 
as it stands. Take the question of marriage. Marriage is permitted before 18 
years. Now Mr. Munshi has carefully explained that his amendment does 
not prevent the minor children from going with the parents. But if they are 
to be married, under what law, by the ceremonies of which religion will 
they be married? if they follow their conscience and the religion they have 
adopted, whether they be Hindus, Muslims, or Christians, the question of 
the validity of that marriage will come in. All this is bristling with legal 
and juridical difficulties, quite apart from those other considerations into 
which, as I said, I regret we have entered with undue warmth. While I 
want to support Mr. Anthony’s motion, I am more inclined to support the 
suggestion of the speaker who immediately preceded me, and ask the 
House to refer the entire clause back to the Advisory Committee so that 
the wording of it may be most carefully weighed. It can be brought back to 
this House just as we have decided, to bring back three or four other 
controversial matters. That is my suggestion and I would request.. .— 


Shri Algu Rai Shastri (U.P.: General): Mr. President, I stand here to 
support the amendment moved by Mr. Munshi. I believe that by accepting 


the amendment we shall be doing justice to those minors who have 
perforce to enter the fold of the religion which their parents embrace out of 
their greed. This practice is like the one prevailing in the transactions of 
transfer of land and which is that ‘trees go with the land’. It is on some 
such basis that the minor children who do not understand what change of 
religion or coercion or religious practices mean, have to leave their old 
faith along with their parents. This evil practice has a very bad effect on 
the strength of our population. It is proper for us that we, who are framing 
the charts of Fundamental Rights, should safeguard their interests and save 
them from such automatic conversion. The dynamic conditions of our 
society make it more important than ever that we should incorporate such 
a provision in our Constitution as will prevent such practices. Such minors 
on attaining majority often regret that they were made to change their 
religion, improperly. Wherever the Europeans or the white races of 
Europe, who rule practically over the whole world, have gone, they have, 
as Missionaries. A study of the ‘Prosperous India’ by Digby shows that 
‘cross was followed by the sword.’ The missionary was followed by the 
batons, the swords and the guns. It was in this way that they employed 
coercion for spreading their religion and for extending their Empire. At the 
same time, they put economic and political pressure on the indigenous 
tribes and consolidated the foundations of their dominion. We want such 
an amendment in this clause of Eundamental Rights that a person who 
wants to change his religion should be able to do so only after he is 
convinced through cool deliberation that the new religion is more 
satisfactory to him than the old one. Eor example it is only when I am 
convinced that Sikhism is preferable to Hinduism, that I should be able to 
change my religion. This right I believe we have. But no one should 
change religion out of greed and temptation. When the followers of one 
religion employ sword and guns to attack a family consisting of a few 
members the latter have no option but to accept the religion of the 
aggressors in order to save their lives. Such a conversion should be 
considered void and ineffective because it has been brought about through 
coercion and undue influence. In view of such conditions which exist 
today, conversion brought about through temptation and allurement is, in 
fact, not a conversion in the real sense of the term. I have a personal 
experience extending over a period of 24 years as to how the elders, of the 
family are induced through prospects of the financial gain to change their 



religion and also with them the children are taken over to the fold of the 
new religion. It appears as if some are taking the land physically in his 
possession and the helpless trees go with it to the new master. 


One particular part of the country has been declared as an ‘Excluded 
Area’, so that a particular sect alone may carry on its propaganda therein. 
Another area has been reserved for the ‘Criminal tribes’. Similarly, other 
areas have also been reserved wherein missionaries alone can carry on 
their activities. In Chattisgarh and other similar forest areas there are tribes 
which follow primitive faiths. There the Hindu missionaries cannot carry 
on their activities. These are called ‘Excluded and partially Excluded 
Areas’, and no religious propaganda can be carried on in these areas 
except by the missionaries. This was the baneful policy of the 
Government. We should now be delivered from this policy o religious 
discrimination. In his book ‘Census of India-1930’ Dewton writes that the 
Christian population of Assam has increased 300 times and attributes this 
increase to certain evils in Hindu Society. It is these evils which gave other 
missionaries opportunities to make conversions. In his book ‘Census of 
India-1911’ Mr. S. Kamath has said that the missionaries of one particular 
religion are reducing the numbers of another by exploiting the evils of that 
group. They convert some influential persons by inducement and 
persuasion. The bitterness of the present is due to such activities. I am 
conversant with what Christian missions have done for the backward 
classes and I have also seen their work among such classes of people. I 
bow to them with respect for the way in which they (missionaries) have 
done their work. How gracious it would have been had they done it only 
for social service. I found that the dispute, if and when it occurs, between 
members of such castes as the sweepers or the chamars on the one side 
and the land-lords or some other influential persons on the other, has been 
exploited to create bitterness between them. No effort has been made to 
effect a compromise. This crooked policy has been adopted to bring about 
the conversion of the former. Similarly, people of other faiths have 
intensified and exploited our differences in order to increase their own 
numbers. The consequence is that the grown-up people in such castes as 
Bhangies and chamars are converted, and with them their children also go 



into the fold of the new religion. They should be affectionately asked to 
live as brothers. This is what has been taught by prophets, angels and 
leaders. But this is not being practised, today. We are in search of 
opportunities to indulge in underhand dealings. We go to people and tell 
them ‘you are in darkness; this is not the way for your salvation’. Thus 
every body can realise how all possible unfair means have been adopted to 
trample the majority community under feet. It is in this way that the 
Foreign bureaucracy has been working here, and has been creating vested 
interests in order to maintain its political strangle-hold over the people. If 
we cannot remove this foundation whom are we going to give the 
Fundamental Rights? TO these minors who are in the lap of their parents? 
If we permit minors to be transferred like trees on land with the newly 
embraced religion of their parents, we would be doing an injustice. Many 
fallacious arguments are offered to permit this. We must not be misled by 
these. We know that our failure to stop conversion under coercion would 
result in grave injustice. I have a right to change my religion. I believe in 
God. If I realise tomorrow that God is a farce and an aberration of human 
mind then I can become an atheist. If I think that the Hindu faith is false, I, 
with my grey hair, my fallen teeth, and ripe age, and my mature discretion 
can change my religion. But if my minor child repeats what I say, are you 
going to allow him also a right to change his religion (at that age)? 
Revered Purushottam Das Tandon has said in a very appealing manner that 
if a child transfers his immovable property worth Rs.lOO the transaction is 
void. How unjust it is that if a minor changes his religion when his parents 
do so, his act is not void? It has an adverse effect on innocent children. 
This attempt to increase population has increased religious bitterness. The 
communal proportion has been’ changed so that the British bureaucracy 
may retain its hold by a variation in the numbers of the different 
communities. I am saying all these things deliberately but I am not 
attacking any one community in particular. The sole interest of the 
government in the illusory web of census lies in seeing a balance in the 
population of the communities so that these may continue to quarrel 
among themselves and thereby strengthen its own rule. This amendment of 
Mr. Munshi is directed against such motives. Nothing can be better than 
that, and, therefore, I support it. 



In my opinion this majority community should not oppress the 
minority. We respect and honour all and we give an opportunity to 
everybody to propagate his religion. Those who agree with you may be 
converted. But convert only those who can be legitimately converted. 
Improper conversions would not be right. You tempt the innocent little 
ones whom you take in your lap, by a suit of clothes, a piece of bread and 
a little toy and thus you ruin their lives. Later, they repent that they did not 
get an opportunity to have a religion of their choice. I, myself, am prepared 
to change my religion. But some one should argue with me and change my 
views and then convert me. Surely, I should have no right to change the 
religion of my children with me - specially children below a certain age. 
Those children are considered to be minors who are under teens, i.e., 
below eighteen.— 

Mr. H. V. Kamath: (Under teens includes nineteen.) 


Shri Algu Rai Shastri: However if it is nineteen, it is all the better. 
Even if it is not possible they should extend minority by a year of grace. 
The age limit fixed for minors and majors should be adopted in religious 
matter as well. They say that there would be no incentive for conversion if 
people have to forego their children. I hear that in Japan the father has one 
religion and the child another. What does religion mean? Does the mother 
feed her baby so that the child’s religion might change? If the mother’s 
love is true she will surely feed her baby. Does the mother’s milk change 
the religion? We do not wish to snatch away the child from the mother’s 
lap, but we wish to give to the baby a right to record his (natal) religion in 
the report of the Census and any other government records, till he attains 
majority and declares his (new) religion. We give him this right in this 
amendment.. Parents need the company of their children. If they have 
changed their religion discreetly, let them educate their children. But the 
change in the religion of the children maybe considered (only) on their 
declaration at reaching majority. This is the purpose of this amendment 
and I support it, and I strongly oppose the view that this right should not 
be given to children.— 


Mr. Jagat Narain Lai (Bihar: General): Mr. President, I was 
expecting that after the acceptance of Clause 13, no representative of any 
minority of this House will have any ground for any objection. Clause 13 
lays down that - ‘All persons are equally entitled to freedom of conscience 
and the right freely to profess, practice and propagate religion subject to 
public order, morality or health or to the other provisions of this Chapter.’ 


This goes to the ‘farthest limit’. If you look to any of the best of 
‘modern world’ Constitutions, you will find that nowhere has this right to 
propagate been conceded, if you look at Article 50 of the Swiss 
Confederation, it lays down that ‘the free exercise of religion is guaranteed 
within limits compatible with public order and morality.’ It ends there. If 
you look at Article 44 sub-clause (2) 1 of the Irish Free State, you will find 
there - ‘Freedom of conscience and the free profession and practice of 
religion are subject to public order and morality, guaranteed to every 
citizen.’ 


If you refer to Article 124 of the Constitution of the Union of the 
Soviet Socialist Republics you will find -‘In order to ensure to citizens 
freedom of conscience, the Church in the U.S.S.R is separated from the 
State and the school from the Church. Freedom of religious worship and 
freedom of antireligious propaganda is recognised for all citizens.’ 


If I place before you all the clauses pertaining to ‘Freedom of 
professing religion’, it will tax your patience. I do not want to waste more 
of your time in this connection. My submission is that this House has gone 
to the farthest limit possible with regard to the minorities, knowing well 
the fact that there are a few minorities in this country whose right to carry 
on propaganda extends to the point of creating various difficulties. I do not 
want to go into its details. The previous speaker had referred to certain 



things in this connection. I submit that should be sufficient. Hon’ble 
Tandonji by his observation that on reading the mind of most of the 
Congress members of this House he did not want to keep ‘right to do 
propaganda’ (on the statute), has rightly interpreted the mind of most of 
us. The fact is that we desire to make the minorities feel that the rights 
which they had been enjoying till now shall be allowed to continue within 
reasonable limits by the majority. We have no desire to curtail them in any 
way. But we do not concede the right to do propaganda. I want to appeal to 
those who profess to speak for the minorities not to press for too much. 
They must be satisfied with this much. It will be too much to press for 
more. That would be taking undue advantage of the generosity of the 
majority. That will be very regrettable. It is difficult, rather impossible, for 
us to go to that limit. I think that the amendment tabled by Mr. Munshi 
becomes essential if the right to propagate is conceded. The House should, 
therefore, accept it. Various arguments have been advanced in the House, 
and so I do not want to comment upon them again. With these words I 
support Mr. Munshi.— 


Dr. B. R. Ambedkar: Mr. President, Sir, I am sorry to say that I do not 
find myself in agreement with the amendment which has been moved by 
Mr. Munshi relating to the question of the conversion of minor children. 
The clause, as it stands probably gives the impression to the House that 
this question relating to the conversion of minors was not considered by 
the Fundamental Rights Committee or by the Minorities Sub Committee or 
by the Advisory Committee. I should like to assure the House that a good 
deal of consideration was bestowed on this question and every aspect was 
examined. It was after examining the whole question in all its aspects, and 
seeing the difficulties which came up, that the Advisory Committee came 
to the conclusion that they should adhere to the clause as it now stands. 


Sir, the difficulty is so clear to my mind that I find no other course but 
to request Mr. Munshi to drop his amendment. With regard to children, 
there are three possible cases which can be visualised. First of all, there is 
the case of children with parents and guardians. There is the case of 


children who are orphans, who have no parents and no guardians in the 
legal sense of the word. Supposing you have this clause prohibiting the 
conversion of children below 18, what is going to be the position of 
children who are orphans? Are they not going to have any kind of 
religion? Are they not to have any religious instruction given to them by 
some one who happens to take a kindly interest in them? It seems to me 
that, if the clause as worded by Mr. Munshi was adopted, viz., that no child 
below the age of 18 shall be converted it would follow that children who 
are orphans, who have no legal guardians, cannot have any kind of 
religious instruction. I am sure that this is not the result which this House 
would be happy to contemplate. Therefore, such a class of subjects shall 
have to be excepted from the operation of the amendment proposed by Mr. 
Munshi. 


Then, I come to the other class, viz., children with parents and 
guardians. They may fall into two categories. For the sake of clarity it 
might be desirable to consider their cases separately; the first is this: where 
children are converted with the knowledge and consent of their guardians 
and parents. The second case is that of children of parents who have 
become converts. 


It does seem to me that there ought to be a prohibition upon the 
conversion of minor children with legal guardians, where the conversion 
takes place without the consent and knowledge of the legal guardians. 
That, I think, is a very legitimate proposition. No missionary who wants to 
convert a child which is under the lawful guardianship of some person, 
who according to the law of guardianship is entitled to regulate and control 
the religious faith of that particular child, ought to deprive that person or 
guardian of the right of having notice and having knowledge that the child 
is being converted to another faith. That, I think, is a simple proposition to 
which there can be no objection. 



But when we come to the other case, viz., where parents are converted 
and we have to consider the case of their children, then I think we come 
across what I might say a very hard rock. If you are going to say that, 
although parents may be converted because they are majors and above the 
age of 18, minors below the age of 18, although they are their children, are 
not to be converted with the parents, the question that we have to consider 
is, what arrangement are we going to make with regard to the children? 
Suppose, a parent is converted to Christianity. Suppose a child of such a 
parent dies. The parent, having been brought up in the Christian faith, 
gives the Christian burial to the dead child. Is that act on the part of the 
parent in giving a Christian burial to the child, to be regarded as an offence 
in law? Take another case. Suppose a parent who has become converted 
has a daughter. He marries that daughter according to Christian rites. What 
is to be the consequence of that marriage? What is to be the effect of that 
marriage? Is that marriage legal or not legal? 


If you do not want that the children should be converted, you have to 
make some other kind of law with regard to guardianship in order to 
prevent the parents from exercising their rights to influence and shape the 
religious life of their children. Sir, I would like to ask whether it would be 
possible for this House to accept that a child of five, for instance, ought to 
be separated from his parents merely because the parents have adopted 
Christianity, or some religion which was not originally theirs. I refer to 
these difficulties in order to show that it is these difficulties which faced 
the Fundamental Rights Committee, the Minorities Committee and the 
Advisory Committee and which led them to reject this proposition. It was, 
because we realised, that the acceptance of the proposition, namely, that a 
person shall not be converted below the age of 18, would lead to many 
disruptions, to so many evil consequences, that we thought it would be 
better to drop the whole thing altogether. {Hear, hear). The mere fact that 
we have made no such reference in Clause 17 of the Fundamental Rights 
does not in my judgement prevent the legislature when it becomes 
operative from making any law in order to regulate this matter. My 
submission, therefore, is that reference back of this clause to a committee 
for further consideration is not going to produce any better result. I have 



no objection to the matter being further examined by persons who feel 
differently about it, but I do like to say that all the three Committees have 
given their best attention to the subject. I have, therefore, come to the 
conclusion that having regard to all the circumstances of the case, the best 
way would be to drop the clause altogether. I have no objection to a 
provision being made that children who have legal and lawful guardians 
should not be converted without the knowledge and notice of the parents. 
That, I think, ought to suffice in the case.— 


The Hon’ble Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel: Sir, this is not a matter free 
from difficulties. There is no point in introducing any element of heat in 
this controversy. It is well known in this country that there are mass 
conversions, conversions by force, conversions by coercion and undue 
influence, and we cannot disguise the fact that children also have been 
converted, that children with parents have been converted and that orphans 
have been converted. Now, we need not go into all the reasons or the 
forces that led to these conversions, but if the facts are recognised, we who 
have to live in this country and find a solution to build up a nation, - we 
need not introduce any heat into this controversy to find a solution. What 
is the best thing to do under the circumstances? There may be different 
points of view. There are bound to be differences in the viewpoints of the 
different communities, but, as Dr. Ambedkar has said, this question has 
been considered in three Committees and yet we have not been able to find 
a solution acceptable to all. Let us make one more effort and not carry on 
this discussion, which will not satisfy everybody. Let this be therefore 
referred to the Advisory Committee. We shall give one more chance.— 

So Clause 17 was “referred back to the Advisory Committee.”— 


The indecision of the Constituent Assembly regarding Clause 17 
provoked a strong Christian reaction. The National Christian Council 
Review of June-July 1947 published an ‘Open Letter’ by L. Sen on the 
subject of ‘Religious Liberty’ “All this talk,” said the writer, “about mass 


conversions being achieved by improper means is absolute balderdash... 
For several centuries Hindus have kept the so-called untouchables from 
their temples and still do so in most places. It is a curious mentality that 
excludes a homeless man from one’s own house and will not allow him to 
enter someone else’s... Mr. Gandhi’s great objection to conversion is that 
all religions are equally good. But Christianity does not think so. Mr. 
Gandhi will call this being intolerant. Very well, then, on his own showing 
Christianity which is intolerant must be inferior to Hinduism. He should, 
therefore, try to convert others to this nobler faith. Assuming, however, 
that Mr. Gandhi is right about the equality of all religions, why is he so 
anxious to prevent conversions by restrictive legislation? Is his conception 
of what is right or what is wrong only going to prevail in free India? Man 
has certain inalienable rights which not even a majority vote can take 
away. One of these rights is that he is free to choose his religion or society, 
without his motive being impugned by government, whether fascist, 
communist or democratic.”— 


The same issue commented on the proceedings of the Constituent 
Assembly. “At this session,” it said, “the all-important subject of the 
Fundamental Rights came up. Both in the Committee which presented the 
Report of Fundamental Rights, and on the floor of the Assembly a good 
deal of heated discussion took place. High tribute must be paid to the 
Committee for presenting a report which is marked by a true sense of 
justice and fair play. It is particularly gratifying to note that freedom of 
conscience - the right freely to profess, practise and propagate religion, in 
the defence of which the National Christian Council has often expressed 
itself, has been recognized. The proposed amendment, relating to the right 
of conversion, however, according to which young people under the age of 
18 will not be allowed to change their religion, seems to us to be an undue 
interference with that freedom which has been properly recognized in the 
report. If parents who are convinced of the need for a change of faith are 
prevented from doing so for strong reasons of affection and attachment to 
their children, then the freedom of conversion become a mockery. Other 
serious things might be said against the proposed amendment - and some 
of these have been said on the floor of the Assembly - but even this is 


enough to indicate the harm such an amendment is likely to do to the cause 
of religious liberty. We hope, therefore, that the clause relating to 
conversion will be allowed to remain as it is. The prevention of coercion 
and improper influence in the matter of conversion is right and necessary 
and has been amply provided for in the clause as it stands.”— 


The campaign was carried forward in the August issue of the monthly. 
It advised the Congress members not to take to the path of Nazi Germany. 
“The Congress members of the Constituent Assembly,” it said, “who wish 
to make everything Hindu from top to bottom should take a lesson from 
history. Hitler created a kind of nationalism which brought about the ruin 
of the German nation. His nationalism created a narrow outlook, and a 
sense of racial superiority which produced hatred for other nationals, and 
racial stocks. He gave to the German people those things and ideas which 
made the Germans feel distinctly different from others, i.e. the Swastika 
and a special salutation.”— 


The same issue of the Review carried an article, ‘Evangelism in 
Independent India’, by Rev. Stanley Jones. “In many quarters,” he wrote, 
“there is a good deal of pessimism. It reaches all the way from the simple 
Indian Christian who said to me: ‘I hear that when independence comes 
we Indian Christians will be forced to go back to the different castes from 
which we came’; to the Indian Bishop who is saying in the West that the 
Christians are going to undergo persecution in an independent India, an 
attempt will be made to wipe them out. Another expressed this pessimism 
when he said, ‘I hear all the missionaries are going to be sent out of India 
with the coming of independence.’ A superintendent of police said to me, 
‘Now that the British are going, are you missionaries going too?”’ 


“Also there will be an attempt,” he continued, “here and there to make 
it impossible for men to accept the Christian faith. In about 17 of the 
Native States there have been enacted laws which make it necessary for 


one to appear before a magistrate when he wants to change his faith, and 
after police investigation the magistrate decides whether he can or not. 
That makes it almost impossible to change one’s faith. But that is in the 
Indian States. The place to watch is the Centre. For the attitudes of the 
Centre will gradually prevail in the States. It is the Centre that counts. In 
time all will have to fall in line with it.”— 

He related what he had discovered after meeting the top Congress 
leaders: 


So I went to Sardar Patel, the strong man of the Congress, and 
asked him what part the missionaries can play, if any, in this new 
India. I told him that I was going to the Kodaikanal and the Landour 
Conventions which are important missionary centers and I wanted 
some word to bring to them from the highest sources. He very 
thoughtfully replied, ‘Let them go on as they have been going on - let 
them serve the suffering with their hospitals and dispensaries, educate 
the poor and give selfless service to the people. They can even carry 
on their propaganda in a peaceful manner. But let them not use mass 
conversions for political ends.’ ‘If they do this then there is a place 
for them in the new India?’ I asked. ‘Certainly,’ he replied, ‘we want 
them to throw themselves in with India, identify themselves with the 
people and make India their home.’ This was quite clear and 
straightforward and from the man who has to do with the question of 
who shall or shall not come into India, for he is the Home Member. 


I then saw C. Rajgopalachariar and asked him the same question. 
His reply was that ‘While I agree that you have the right of 
conversion, I would suggest that in this crisis when religion is 
dividing us it would be a better part of your strategy to dim 
conversions and serve the people in various ways until the situation 
returns to a more normal state. If you are not willing to do that then I 
would suggest that instead of ‘Profess, practise and propagate’ as 
suggested in the Committee, it should be ‘Belief, worship and 


preach’.’ Then I further asked, ‘Will the missionaries be tolerated or 
welcomed as partners in this new India?’ His reply was: ‘If they take 
some of the attitudes I suggest, then they will not only be welcomed, 
they will be welcomed with gratitude, for what they have done and 
will do.’ 


The third man I saw was Maulana Abdul Kalam Azad, the 
gracious head of Education in the Central Government. I asked him 
whether missionaries could be tolerated or welcomed as partners in 
the making of this new India. His reply was: ‘Do not use the word 
‘tolerate’, there is no thought of that. You will be welcomed. There is 
no point at issue with the missionaries, except at one point: at the 
place of mass conversions where there is no real change of heart. We 
believe in the right of outer change where there is inner change, but 
when masses are brought over without any perceptible spiritual 
change then it arouses suspicions as to motives. But apart from that 
we have no point at issue. You will be welcomed gratefully for what 
you have done not only for India but for other parts of the world such 
as the Near East.’ 


The fourth man to whom I went was the man whom Gandhiji 
calls ‘the uncrowned king of India’, Jawaharlal Nehru, and when I 
asked him whether missionaries will be tolerated or welcomed as 
partners in the making of the new India his reply was: ‘I am not sure 
as to what is involved in being looked on as partners. But we will 
welcome anyone who throws himself into India and makes India his 
home.’ 


The fact of the matter is that the greatest hour of Christian 
opportunity has come in India. I have never had such a hearing in 
forty years as I have had in these last six months in India. The 
tensions have been let down. The combativeness against the Christian 



faith has been eased into an attitude of wistful yearning hoping that 
the Christians have some answer to the problems that confront us. 


The Christian Church must now search its own heart and set its 
own house in order. It must cease from little irrelevancies and give 
itself to big things. The big thing in India is to present Christ in such a 
way as to become inescapable in the India to be. And the Church 
itself must be the message - it must show itself the embodiment of the 
new order... 


Then every Christian must become a witness on fire with the love 
of Christ. The whole body of Christians must now be ablaze with the 
divine passion to serve and to save. It must consume us. For the 
crucial hour of the Church has now come in India.— 

The debate on Clause 17 was resumed on August 30,1947: 

The Honourable Sardar Vallabhbhai J. Patel: The Committee 
discussed this and there were several other suggestions made by the House 
and the clause was referred back to the Committee. After further 
consideration of this clause, which enunciates an obvious principle, the 
Committee came to the conclusion that it is not necessary to include this as 
a fundamental right. It is illegal under the present law and it can be illegal 
at any time.— 


Shri M. Ananthasayanam Ayyangar (Madras: General): It is 

unfortunate that religion is being utilised not for the purpose of saving 
one’s soul but for disintegrating society. Recently after the announcement 
by the Cabinet Mission and later on by the British Government, a number 
of conversions have taken place. It was said that power had been handed 
over to Provincial Governments who were in charge of these matters. This 
is dangerous. What has religion to do with a secular State? Our minorities 


are communal minorities for which we have made provision. Do you want 
an opportunity to be given for numbers to be increased for the purpose of 
getting more seats in the Legislatures? That is what is happening. All 
people have come to the same opinion that there should be a secular State 
here; so we should not allow conversion from one community to another. I 
therefore want that a positive fundamental right must be established that 
no conversion shall be allowed, and if any occasion does arise like this, let 
the person concerned appear before a judge and swear before him that he 
wishes to be converted. This may be an out-of-the-way suggestion but I 
would appeal to this House to realize the dangerous consequences 
otherwise. Later on it may attain enormous proportions. I would like this 
matter to be considered and the question referred back for a final draft for 
consideration at a later sitting.— 


Shri R. V. Dhulekar: Mr. President, my opinion is that Clause 17 
should be retained as it stands, in the present environment, all sorts of 
efforts are being made to increase the population of a particular section in 
this country, so that once again efforts may be made to further divide this 
country. There is ample proof, both within this House and outside that 
many who live in this country are not prepared to be the citizens of this 
country. Those who have caused the division of our land desire that India 
may be further divided. Therefore in view of the present circumstances, i 
think that this clause should be retained, it is necessary that full attention 
should be paid to this. While on tour, I see every day refugees moving 
about with their children and I find them at railway stations, shops, hotels, 
bakeries and at numerous other places. The men of these bakeries abduct 
these women and children. There should be legislation to stop this. I would 
request you that an early move should be made to stop all this and millions 
of people would be saved. 


I submit that we cannot now tolerate things of this nature. We are being 
attacked, and we do not want that India’s population, the numerical 
strength of the Hindus and other communities should gradually diminish. 


and after ten years the other people may again say that ‘we constitute a 
separate nation’. These separatist tendencies should be crushed. 


Therefore I request that section 17 may be retained in the same form as 
is recommended by the Advisory Committee.— 


The Honourable Sardar Vallabhbhai J. Patel: Much of this debate 
may be shortened if it be recognised that there is no difference of opinion 
on the merits of the case that forcible conversion should not be or cannot 
be recognised by law. On that principle there is no difference of opinion. 
The question is only whether this clause is necessary in the list of 
fundamental rights. Now, if it is an objective for the administration to act, 
it has a place in the Second part which consists of non-justiciable rights. If 
you think it is necessary, let us transfer it to the Second part of the 
Schedule because it is admitted that in the law of the land forcible 
conversion is illegal. We have even stopped forcible education and, we do 
not for a moment suggest that forcible conversion of one by another from 
one religion to another will be recognised. But suppose one thousand 
people are converted, that is not recognised. Will you go to a court of law 
and ask it not to recognise it? It only creates complications, it gives no 
remedy. But if you want this principle to be enunciated as a seventh clause, 
coming after Clause 6, in the Second Schedule, it is unnecessary to carry 
on any debate; you can do so. There is no difference of opinion on the 
merits of the case. But at this stage to talk of forcible conversion on merits 
is absurd, because there cannot be any question about it.— 

At this stage Mr. Hussain Iman walked up to the rostrum to speak. 

The Honourable Sardar Vallabhbhai J. Patel: Do you advocate 
forcible conversion? 


Mr. Hussain Iman: No, Sir, I very much regret the attitude of certain 
Members who are in the habit of bringing in controversial matters without 
any rhyme or reason. It was really a most uncalled for attack which the last 
speaker made on the Mussalmans, without mentioning names. But I regret 
that in the atmosphere which we are trying to create of amity such 
intrusions should be allowed to intervene and mar the fair atmosphere. 


Sir, what I came to suggest was that this is such a fundamental thing 
that there is no need to provide for it. According to the law everything 
which has been done under coercion is illegal. Anything done by reason of 
fraud can never stand. Forcible conversion is the highest degree of 
undesirable thing. But it is not proper, as the Sardar himself has admitted, 
to provide it in the justiciable fundamental rights. The only place which it 
can occupy is in the annals of High Court Judgments. Any number of 
judgements exist which have declared that anything done by reason of 
fraud or coercion is illegal. Therefore it is not justiciable and cannot be 
justified by any sensible person in the world. I strongly advocate that it is 
not necessary to put it in any of the lists of Fundamental Rights.— 


The President of the Assembly put to vote the motion “that this should 
not be put in the Fundamental Rights” and the motion was adopted. 
Christian missions carried the day. Hindus were trying to lock the stable 
after the horse had been stolen. 


The October 1947 issue of The National Christian Council Review 
published a letter written by Austin David. It deserves to be reproduced in 
full: 


It is a matter of great relief and rejoicing for all citizens of the 
Indian Dominion that the Constituent Assembly has decided to drop 
the Clause 17, and the amendment of Mr. K. M. Munshi which sought 
to restrict the freedom of conscience in the matter of profession. 


practice and propagation of religion: Because of this proposed 
amendment there was a great uneasiness among the Christians all 
over India. All sorts of fears and doubts were arising in the minds of 
the people as to the future of minorities. The Church in India is first 
of all beholden to the Christian members of the Constituent Assembly 
for their tactful and firm handling of the matter, and to all the 
members of the Constituent Assembly for their just and fair treatment 
towards its citizens in the matter of religious liberty. 


We also owe a very heavy debt of gratitude to the National 
Christian Council of India, in sending a mission to Delhi, consisting 
of Bishop S. K. Mondol, Vice-President, and Mr. E. C. Bhatty, one of 
the secretaries. Their visit to Delhi greatly helped in mobilising 
opinion among the Christian members of the Constituent Assembly in 
favour of working as a team, and in making them feel that the 
Christian community expected them to present its case with force, 
and firmness. There were certain matters on which compromise could 
not be made. We also understand that they met some Cabinet 
ministers, and other leaders whom they asked for a greater measure of 
religious liberty. Both of these gentlemen deserve our gratitude. They 
are both known for their calm and tactful handling of things, and they 
have once again proved their ability. We are convinced that in the 
future we... require... as our leaders... men with true Christian 
character, with no guile and self-seeking, working for the good of the 
Church. We should therefore thank the N.C.C. for choosing these two 
gentlemen this time.— 

The same issue of the Review published “news from Korea” which spelled 

out what Christians meant by ‘religious liberty’: 

Rev. C. C. Amendt, a Methodist missionary who recently returned 
to Seoul from the United States, reports about the Church’s 
possibilities in Korea. He has made a number of ‘jeep trips’ into the 
countryside and found a hearty welcome from the Koreans and their 
Churches. ‘We are thankful for the progress that has been made,’ he 
said, ‘for the crowded churches and for the unparalleled opportunity 


before us today. This past week I did what I never thought I or anyone 
else would ever do in Korea - I preached in a Shinto shrine, now a 
Christian church. Not long ago I preached in a thriving new church 
that bad formerly been a Japanese Buddhist temple. The great 
Eastern union service for all denominations, Koreans and American 
G.L’S, was on the site of the most famous Shinto shrine in the land-a 
symbol of the complete change and religious freedom that bas come 
to the Korean people. The challenge of such a time of fluidity and 
change is beyond the power of words to express.— 

Clause 13 came up before the Constituent Assembly once again on 
December 3, 1948. It figured as Article 19 in the Draft Constitution and 
read as under: 

19.(1) Subject to public order, morality and health and to the other 
provisions of the Part, all persons are equally entitled to freedom of 
conscience and the right freely to profess, practise and propagate 
religion. 


(2) Nothing in this article shall affect the operation of any existing 
law or preclude the State from making any law 


(a) regulating or restricting any economic, financial, political or 
other secular activity which may be associated with religious practice; 


(b) for social welfare and reform or for throwing open Hindu 
religious institutions of a public character to any class or section of 
Hindus.— 

The Vice-President of the Constituent Assembly presented Article 19 
as a “motion before the House” and went over the amendments “one by 
one.” Some parts of the debate that followed are being reproduced below: 


Prof. K. T. Shah: Mr. Vice-President, I beg to move- 

“That the following proviso be added to Clause (1) of article 19: 

“Provided that no propaganda in favour of any one religion which 
is calculated to result in change of faith by the individuals affected, 
shall be allowed in any school or college or other educational 
institution, in any hospital or asylum, or in any other place or 
institution where persons of a tender age, or of unsound mind or body 
are liable to be exposed to undue influence from their teachers, nurses 
or physicians, keepers or guardians or any other person set in 
authority above them, and which is maintained wholly or partially 
from public revenues, or is in any way aided or protected by the 
Government of the Union, or of any State or public authority therein.” 

Sir, the main article gives the right of freedom of propaganda. I have 
no quarrel with the right that anybody professing any particular form of 
belief should be at liberty, in this Liberal State, to place the benefits or 
beauties of his particular form of worship before others. My only condition 
- and the amendment tries to incorporate that - is that this freedom should 
not be abused, as it has been in the past. In places or institutions, where 
people of tender age or those suffering from any bodily or mental 
infirmity, are exposed to undue influence, they are liable to be influenced 
more by the personality of those in authority above them than by the 
inherent advantages and unquestionable reasoning in favour of a particular 
religion, and as such result in conversion. That is not a genuine change of 
opinion, but is the result of undue influence that ought to be stopped.— 


Shri Lokanath Misra (Orissa : General): I would have been very 
glad if I had a chance to speak generally on article 19 and not move this 
amendment. To my mind, if article 13 of this Draft Constitution is a 
charter of liberty, article 19 is a Charter for Hindu enslavement. I do really 
feel that this is the most disgraceful article, the blackest part of the Draft 
Constitution. I beg to submit that I have considered and studied all the 
constitutional precedents and have not found anywhere any mention of the 
word ‘propaganda’ as a Fundamental Right, relating to religion. 


Sir, we have declared the state to be a Secular State. For obvious and 
for good reasons we have so declared. Does it not mean that we have 
nothing to do with any religion? You know that propagation of religion 
brought India into this unfortunate state and India had to be divided into 
Pakistan and India. If Islam had not come to impose its will on this land, 
India would have been a perfectly secular State and a homogenous state. 
There would have been no question of partition. Therefore, we have 
rightly tabooed religion. And now to say that as a fundamental right 
everybody has a right to propagate his religion is not right. Do we want to 
say that we want one religion other than Hinduism and that religion has 
not yet taken sufficient root in the soil of India and do we taboo all 
religions? Why do you make it a Secular State? The reason may be that 
religion is not necessary or it may be that religion is necessary, but as India 
has many religions, Hinduism, Christianity, Islam and Sikhism, we cannot 
decide which one to accept. Therefore let us have no religion. No. That 
cannot be. If you accept religion, you must accept Hinduism as it is 
practised by an overwhelming majority of the people of India. 


Mr. Vice-President: We shall resume the discussion on Monday. A 
request has come to me from my Muslim brethren that as today is Friday 
we should now adjourn. I think we ought to show consideration to them 
and adjourn now to meet again on Monday at Ten of the clock. 

Mr. Mishra may then deliver the rest of his speech.— 

The debate was resumed on December 6,1948. 


Shri Lokanath Misra: Sir, it has been repeated to our cars that ours is 
a secular State. I accepted this secularism in the sense that our State shall 
remain unconcerned with religion, and I thought that the secular State of 
partitioned India was the maximum of generosity of a Hindu dominated 
territory for its non-Hindu population. I did not of course know what 


exactly this secularism meant and how far the State intends to cover the 
life and manners of our people. To my mind life cannot be 
compartmentalised and yet I reconciled myself to the new cry. 


The Honourable Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru (United Provinces: 
General): Sir, are manuscripts allowed to be read in this House? 


Mr. Vice-President; Ordinarily I do not allow manuscripts to be read, 
but if a Member feels that he cannot otherwise do full justice to the subject 
on hand, I allow him to read from his manuscript. 

The Honourable Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru: May I know what is the 
subject?— 


Mr. Vice-President: Mr. Lokanath Misra is moving an amendment to 
article 19.1 ask the indulgence of the House because Mr. Lokanath Misra 
represents a particular point of view which I hold should be given 
expression to in this House. 


Shri Lokanath Misra: Gradually it seems to me that our ‘a secular 
State’ is a slippery phrase, a device to bypass the ancient culture of the 
land. 


The absurdity of this position is now manifest in articles 19 to 22 of 
the Draft Constitution. Do we really believe that religion can be divorced 
from life, or is it our belief that in the midst of many religions we cannot 
decide which one to accept? If religion is beyond the ken of our State, let 


US clearly say so and delete all reference to rights relating to religion. If we 
find it necessary, let us be brave enough and say what it should be. 


But this unjust generosity of tabooing religion and yet making 
propagation of religion a fundamental right is somewhat uncanny and 
dangerous. Justice demands that the ancient faith and culture of the land 
should be given a fair deal, if not restored to its legitimate place after a 
thousand years of suppression. 


We have no quarrel with Christ or Mohammad or what they saw and 
said. We have all respect for them. To my mind, Vedic culture excludes 
nothing. Every philosophy and culture has its place but now the cry of 
religion is a dangerous cry. It denominates, it divides and encamps people 
to warring ways. In the present context what can this word ‘propagation’ 
in article 19 mean? It can only mean paving the way for the complete 
annihilation of Hindu culture, the Hindu way of life and manners. Islam 
has declared its hostility to Hindu thought. Christianity has worked out the 
policy of peaceful penetration by the back-door on the outskirts of our 
social life. This is because Hinduism did not accept barricades for its 
protection. Hinduism is just an integrated vision and a philosophy of life 
and cosmos, expressed in organised society to live that philosophy in 
peace and amity. But Hindu generosity has been misused and politics has 
overrun Hindu culture. Today, religion in India serves no higher purpose 
than collecting ignorance, poverty and ambition under a banner that flies 
for fanaticism. The aim is political, for in the modern world all is power- 
politics and the inner man is lost in the dust. Let everybody live as he 
thinks best but let him not try to swell his number to demand the spoils of 
political warfare. Let us not raise the question of communal minorities any 
more. It is a device to swallow the majority in the long run. This is 
intolerable and unjust. 



Indeed in no constitution of the world right to propagate religion is a 
fundamental right and justiciable. The Irish Free State Constitution 
recognises special position of the faith professed by the great majority of 
the citizens. We in India are shy of such recognition. U.S.S.R. gives 
freedom of religious worship and freedom of antireligious propaganda. 
Our Constitution gives the right even to propagate religion but does not 
give the right to any antireligious propaganda, if people should propagate 
their religion, let them do so. Only I crave, let not the Constitution put it as 
a fundamental right and encourage it. Fundamental rights are inalienable 
and once they are admitted, it will create bad blood. I therefore say, let us 
say nothing about rights relating to religion. Religion will take care of 
itself. Drop the word ‘propagate’ in article 19 at least. Civilisation is going 
headlong to the melting pot. Let us beware and try to survive.— 

Mr. Vice-President: The clause is now open for discussion.— 


Pandit Lakshmi Kanta Maitra (West Bengal: General): Sir, I feel 
myself called upon to put in a few words to explain the general implication 
of this article so as to remove some of the misconceptions that have arisen 
in the minds of some of my honourable Friends over it. 


This article 19 of the Draft Constitution confers on all persons the right 
to profess, practise and propagate any religion they like but this right has 
been circumscribed by certain conditions which the State would be free to 
impose in the interests of public morality, public order and public health 
and also in so far as the right conferred here does not conflict in any way 
with the other provisions elaborated under this part of the Constitution. 
Some of my Friends argued that this right ought not to be permitted in this 
Draft Constitution for the simple reason that we have declared time and 
again that this is going to be a secular State and as such practice of religion 
should not be permitted as a fundamental right. It has been further argued 
that by conferring the additional right to propagate a particular faith or 
religion the door is opened for all manner of troubles and conflicts which 
would eventually paralyse the normal life of the State. I would say at once 


that this conception of a secular State is wholly wrong. By secular State, as 
I understand it, is meant that the State is not going to make any 
discrimination whatsoever on the ground of religion or community against 
any person professing any particular form of religious faith. This means in 
essence that no particular religion in the State will receive any State 
patronage whatsoever. The State is not going to establish, patronise or 
endow any particular religion to the exclusion of or in preference to others 
and that no citizen in the State will have any preferential treatment or will 
be discriminated against simply on the ground that he professed a 
particular form of religion. In other words in the affairs of the State the 
professing of any particular religion will not be taken into consideration at 
all. This I consider to be the essence of a secular state. At the same time 
we must be very careful to see that in this land of ours we do not deny to 
anybody the-right not only to profess or practise but also to propagate any 
particular religion. Mr. Vice-President, this glorious land of ours is nothing 
if it does not stand for lofty religious and spiritual concepts and ideals. 
India would not be occupying any place of honour on this globe if she had 
not reached that spiritual height which she did in her glorious past. 
Therefore I feel that the Constitution has rightly provided for this not only 
as a right but also as a fundamental right. In the exercise of this 
fundamental right every community inhabiting this State professing any 
religion will have equal right and equal facilities to do whatever it likes in 
accordance with its religion provided it does not clash with the conditions 
laid down here. 


The great Swami Vivekananda used to say that India is respected, and 
revered all over the world because of her rich spiritual heritage. The 
Western world strong with all the strength of a materialistic civilisation, 
rich with the acquisitions of science, having a dominating position in the 
world, is poor today because of its utter lack of spiritual treasure. And here 
does India step in. India has to impart this rich spiritual treasure, this 
message of hers to the West, if we are to do that, if we are to educate the 
world, if we are to remove the doubts and misconceptions and the colossal 
ignorance that prevails in the world about India’s culture and heritage, this 



right must be inherent, - the right to profess and propagate her religious 
faith must be conceded.— 


I have listened to some of the speeches that have been made in 
connection with this article, it has been objected to and it has been said 
that the right to propagate should be taken away. One honourable Member 
suggested that if we conceded the right, the bloody upheaval which this 
country has witnessed of late would again recur with full vehemence in the 
near future. I do not at all share that pessimism of my honourable Friend. 
Apparently my honourable Friend has not given special consideration to 
the conditions that are imposed in this article. The power that this article 
imposes upon the State to intervene on certain occasions completely 
demolishes all chances of that kind of cataclysm which we have seen. 


It has also been said, and I am very sorry that an observation was made 
by an honourable Member of considerable eminence and standing, that the 
Christian community in its proselytising zeal has sometimes transgressed 
its limits and has done acts which can never be justified. An instance of 
Bombay was cited in defence of his position. 


Mr. Vice-President: I am afraid you are making a mistake there. No 
particular instance, so far as I remember, was cited. 


Pandit Lakshmi Kanta Maitra: Anyway I believe that was at the 
back of his mind. I am sorry if I have not got at it correctly. I want to say 
that a good deal of injustice will be done to the great Christian community 
in India if we go away with that impression. The Indian Christian 
community happens to be the most inoffensive community in the whole of 
India. That is my personal opinion and I have never known anybody 
contesting that proposition. This Indian Christian community, so far as I 


am aware, spends to the tune of nearly Rs. 2 crores every year for 
educational uplift, medical relief and for sanitation, public health and rest 
of it. Look at the numerous educational institutions, dispensaries and 
hospitals they have been running so effectively and efficiently catering to 
all classes and communities. If this vast amount of Rs. 2 crores were 
utilised by this Christian community for purposes of seeking converts, then 
the Indian Christian community which comprises only 70 millions would 
have gone up to... 

Mr. Vice-President: You are mistaken there: it is only 7 millions. 


Mr. Lakshmi Kanta Maitra: I beg your pardon. From 7 millions it 
would have gone to 70 millions. But the point Mr. Vice-President, is not in 
the figures. The point of my whole contention is that the Christian 
community in India has not done that proselytising work with that amount 
of zeal and frenzy with which some of our friends have associated it. I am 
anxious to remove that misconception. Sir, I feel that every single 
community in India should be given this right to propagate its own 
religion. Even in a secular state I believe there is necessity for religion. We 
are passing through an era of absolute irreligion. Why is there so much 
vice or corruption in every stratum of society? Because we have forgotten 
the sense of values of things which our forefathers had inculcated. We do 
not at all care in these days, for all these glorious traditions of ours with 
the result that everybody now acts in his own way, and justice, fairness, 
good sense and honesty have all gone to the wilderness. If we are to 
restore our sense of values which we have held dear, it is of the utmost 
importance that we should be able to propagate what we honestly feel and 
believe in. Propagation does not necessarily mean seeking converts by 
force of arms, by the sword, or by coercion. But why should obstacles 
stand in the way if by exposition, illustration and persuasion you could 
convey your own religious faith to others? I do not see any harm in it. And 
I do feel that this would be the very essence of our fundamental rights, the 
right to profess and practise any particular religion. Therefore this right 
should not be taken away, in my opinion. If in this country the different 
religious faiths would go on expounding their religious tenets and 



doctrines, then probably a good deal of misconception prevailing in the 
minds of people about different religions would be removed, and probably 
a stage would be reached when by mutual understanding we could avoid in 
future all manner of conflicts that arise in the name of religion. From that 
point of view I am convinced that the word ‘propagate’ should be there 
and should not be deleted. In this connection I think I may remind the 
House that the whole matter was discussed in the Advisory Council and it 
was passed there. As such I do not see any reason why we should now go 
back on that. Sir, the clause as it is has my wholehearted support, and I feel 
that with the amendments moved by my honourable Friend Dr. Ambedkar 
and Shrimati Durgabai this clause should stand as part of the 
Constitution.— 


Shri L. Krishnaswami Bharathi (Madras: General): Mr. Vice- 
President, after the eloquent and elaborate speech of my respected Friend 
Pandit Maitra I thought it was quite unnecessar .y on my part to participate 
in the discussion. I fully agree with him that the word ‘propagate’ is 
intended only for the Christian community. But I think it is absolutely 
necessary, in the present context of circumstances, that we must educate 
our people on religious tenets and doctrines. So far as my experience goes, 
the Christian community have not transgressed their limits of legitimate 
propagation of religious view, and on the whole they have done very well 
indeed. It is for other communities to emulate them and propagate their 
own religions as well. This word is generally understood as if it referred to 
only one particular religion, namely, Christianity alone. As we read this 
clause, it is a right given to all sectional religions; and it is well known that 
after all, all religions have one objective and if it is properly understood by 
the masses, they will come to know that all religions are one and the same. 
It is all God, though under different names. Therefore this word ought to 
be there. This right ought to be there. The different communities may well 
carry on propaganda or propagate their religion and what it stands for. It is 
not to be understood that when one propagates his religion he should cry 
down other religions. It is not the spirit of any religion to cry down another 
religion. Therefore this is absolutely necessary and essential. 


Again, it is not at all inconsistent with the secular nature of the State. 
After all, the State does not interfere with it. Religion will be there. It is a 
personal affair and the State as such does not side with one religion or 
another. It tolerates all religions. Its citizens have their own religion and its 
communities have their own religions. And I have no doubt whatever, 
seeing from past history, that there will not be any quarrel on this account. 
It was only yesterday His Excellency the Governor-General Sri Rajaji 
spoke on this matter. It is very necessary that we should show tolerance. 
That is the spirit of all religions. To say that some religious people should 
not do propaganda or propagate their views is to show intolerance on our 
part. 


Let me also, in this connection, remind the House that the matter was 
thoroughly discussed at all stages in the Minorities Committee, and they 
came to the conclusion that this great Christian community which is 
willing and ready to assimilate itself with the general community, which 
does not want reservation or other special privileges should be allowed to 
propagate its religion along with other religious communities in India. 


Sir, on this occasion I may also mention that you, Mr. Vice-President,— 
are willing to give up reservation of seats in the Assembly and the local 
Legislatures of Madras and Bombay, and have been good enough to give 
notice of an amendment to delete the clause giving reservation to the 
Christian community. That is the way in which this community, which has 
been thoroughly nationalist in its outlook has been moving. Therefore, in 
good grace, the majority community should allow this privilege for the 
minority communities and have it for themselves as well. I think I can 
speak on this point with a certain amount of assurance that the majority 
community is perfectly willing to allow this right. I am therefore strongly 
in favour of the retention of the word ‘propagate’ in this clause.— 


The Honourable Shri K. Santhanam: Mr. Vice-President, Sir, I stand 
here to support this article. This article has to be read with article 13; 
article 13 has already assured freedom of speech and expression and the 
right to form association or unions. The above rights include the right of 
religious speech and expression and the right to form religious association 
or unions. Therefore article 19 is really not so much an article on religious 
freedom, but an article on what I may call religious toleration. It is not so 
much the words ‘All persons are equally entitled to freedom of conscience 
and the right freely to profess, practise and propagate religion’ that are 
important. What are important are the governing words with which the 
article begins, viz., ‘Subject to public order, morality and health’. 


Hitherto it was thought in this country that anything in the name of 
religion must have the right to unrestricted practice and propagation. But 
we are now in the new Constitution restricting the right only to that right 
which is consistent with public order, morality and health. The full 
implications of this qualification are not easy to discover. Naturally, they 
will grow with the growing social and moral conscience of the people. For 
instance, I do not know if for a considerable period of time the people of 
India will think that purdah is consistent with the health of the people. 
Similarly, there are many institutions of Hindu religion which the future 
conscience of the Hindu community will consider as inconsistent with 
morality. 


Sir, some discussion has taken place on the word ‘propagate’. After all 
propagation is merely freedom of expression. I would like to point out that 
the word ‘convert’ is not there. Mass conversion was a part of the 
activities of the Christian Missionaries in this country and great objection 
has been taken by the people to that. Those who drafted this Constitution 
have taken care to see that no unlimited right of conversion has been 
given. People have freedom of conscience and, if any man is converted 
voluntarily owing to freedom of conscience, then well and good. No 
restrictions can be placed against it. But if any attempt is made by one 
religious community or another to have mass conversions through undue 



influence either by money or by other means, the State has every right to 
regulate such activity. Therefore I submit to you that this article, as it is, is 
not so much an article ensuring freedom but toleration - toleration for all, 
irrespective of the religious practice or profession. And this toleration is 
subject to public order, morality and health. 


Therefore this article has been very carefully drafted and qualifications 
are as important as the right it confers. Therefore I think the article as it 
stands is entitled to our wholehearted support.— 


Shri Rohini Kumar Chaudhari (Assam: General): Sir, I am greatful 
to you for giving me this opportunity for making a few observations on 
this very important article. It struck me as very peculiar that, although as 
many as four articles have dealt with religion, there is no mention of God 
anywhere in the whole Chapter. At first I considered it extremely strange, 
but after going through the matter more carefully, I found every 
justification for it. From the way in which the world is progressing, there is 
very little doubt that a time will come when we may be in a position to 
dispense with God altogether. That has happened in other more advanced 
countries and therefore I believe, in order to make room for such a state of 
things, the word “God” has been purposely avoided in dealing with 
religion itself. 


Another point is the propagation of any religion. I have no objection to 
the propagation of any religion. If anyone thinks that his religion is 
something ennobling and it is his duty to ask others to follow that religion, 
he is welcome to do so. But what I would object to is that there is no 
provision in this Constitution to prevent the so-called propagandist of his 
religion from throwing mud at some other religion. For instance. Sir, in the 
past we remember how missionaries went round the country and described 
Sri Krishna in the most abominable terms. They would bring up particular 
activities of Sri Krishna and say, ‘Look here, this is your Lord Krishna and 


this is his conduct.’ We also remember with great pain how they used to 
decry the worship of the idols and call them names. Sir, in the new 
Constitution we must make it perfectly clear that no such thing will be 
tolerated. It is not necessary in the course of propagating any particular 
religion to throw mud at other religions, to decry them and bring out their 
unsatisfactory features according to the particular supporters of a particular 
religion. There should be a provision in the law, in the Constitution itself 
that such conduct will be met with exemplary punishment.— 


Shri T. T. Krishnamachari (Madras: General): Mr. Vice President 
Sir, I am here to support the motion before the House, viz., to approve of 
article 19. Many speakers before me have emphasised the various 
provisions of this particular article and the background in regard to the 
framing of this article. What I would like to stress is this: Sir, we are not 
concerned here with compromises arrived at between the various 
communities. We are not really concerned with whether some advantage 
might be derived from the wording of this article later on by certain 
communities in regard to the furtherance of their own religious beliefs and 
practices, but I think emphasis should be laid on the fact that a new 
government and the new Constitution have to take things as they are, and 
unless the status quo has something which offends all ideas of decency, all 
ideas of equity and all ideas of justice, its continuance has to be provided 
for in the Constitution so that people who are coming under the regime of 
a new government may feel that the change is not a change for the worse. 
In achieving that particular object, I think this article has gone a long way. 


Sir, objection has been taken to the inclusion of the word “propagate” 
along with the word “profess and practise” in the matter of religion. Sir, it 
does not mean that this right to propagate one’s religion is given to any 
particular community or to people who follow any particular religion. It is 
perfectly open to the Hindus and the Arya Samajists to carry on their 
Suddhi propaganda as it is open to the Christians, the Muslims, the Jains 
and the Buddhists and to every other religionist, so long as he does it 
subject to public order, morality and the other conditions that have to be 


observed in any civilised government. So, it is not a question of taking 
away anybody’s rights. It is a question of conferring these rights on all the 
citizens and seeing that these rights are exercised in a manner which will 
not upset the economy of the country, which will not create disorder and 
which will not create undue conflict in the minds of the people. That, I 
feel, is the point that has to be stressed in regard to this particular article. 
Sir, I know as a person who had studied for about fourteen years in 
Christian institutions that no attempt had been made to convert me from 
my own faith and to practise Christianity. I am very well aware of the 
influences that Christianity has brought to bear upon our own ideals and 
our own outlook, and I am not prepared to say here that they should be 
prevented from propagating their religion. I would ask the House to look at 
the facts so far as the history of this type of conversion is concerned. It 
depends upon the way in which certain religionists and certain 
communities treat their less fortunate brethren. The fact that many people 
in this country have embraced Christianity is due partly to the status that it 
gave to them. Why should we forget that particular fact? An untouchable 
who became a Christian became an equal in every matter along with the 
high-caste Hindu, and if we remove the need to obtain that particular 
advantage that he might probably get - it is untouchability a very important 
advantage, apart from the fact that he has faith in the religion itself - well, 
the incentive for anybody to become a Christian will not probably exist. I 
have no doubt. Sir, we have come to a stage when it does not matter to 
what religion a man belongs, it does not matter to what sub-sect or 
community in a particular religion a man belongs, he will be equal in the 
eyes of law and in society and in regard to the exercise of all rights that are 
given to those who are more fortunately placed. So I feel that any undue 
influence that might be brought to bear on people to change their religion 
or any other extraneous consideration for discarding their own faith in any 
particular religion and accepting another faith will no longer exist; and in 
the circumstances, I think it is only fair that we should take the status quo 
as it is in regard to religion and put it into our Fundamental Rights, giving 
the same right to every religionist, as I said before, to propagate his 
religion and to convert people, if he felt that it is a thing that he has to do 
and that it is a thing for which he has been born and that it is his duty 
towards his God and his community. 



Subject to the overriding considerations of the maintenance of the 
integrity of the State and the well-being of the people, - these conditions 
are satisfied by this article -1 feel that if the followers of any religion want 
to subtract from the concessions given herein in any way, they are not only 
doing injustice to the possibility of integration of all communities into one 
nation in the future but also doing injustice to their own religion and to 
their own community. Sir, I support the article as it is.— 


Shri K. M. Munshi (Bombay: General): I have only a few words to 
say with regard to the objections taken to the word “propagate”. Many 
honourable Members have spoken before me placing the point of view that 
they need not be afraid of the word “propagate” in this particular article. 
When we object to this word, we think in terms of the old regime. In the 
old regime, the Christian missionaries, particularly those who were British 
were at an advantage. But since 1938,1 know, in my part of Bombay, the 
influence which was derived from their political influence and power has 
disappeared. If I may mention a fact within my knowledge, in 1937 when 
the first Congress Ministry came into power in Bombay, the Christian 
missionaries who till then had great influence with the Collectors of the 
Districts and through their influence acquired converts, lost it and since 
then whatever conversions take place in that part of the country are only 
the result of persuasion and not because of material advantages offered to 
them. In the present set up that we are now creating under this 
Constitution, there is a secular State. There is no particular advantage to a 
member of one community over another; nor is there any political 
advantage by increasing one’s fold. In those circumstances, the word 
‘propagate’ cannot possibly have dangerous implications, which some of 
the Members think that it has. 


Moreover, I was a party from the very beginning to the compromise 
with the minorities, which ultimately led to many of these clauses being 
inserted in the Constitution and I know it was on this word that the Indian 


Christian community laid the greatest emphasis, not because they wanted 
to convert people aggressively, but because the word “propagate” was a 
fundamental part of their tenet. Even if the word were not there, I am sure, 
under the freedom of speech which the Constitution guarantees it—will be 
open to any religious community to persuade other people to join their 
faith. So long as religion is religion, conversion by free exercise of the 
conscience has to be recognised. The word “propagate” in this clause is 
nothing very much out of the way as some people think, nor is it fraught 
with dangerous consequences. Speaking frankly, whatever its results we 
ought to respect the compromise. The Minorities Committee the year 
before the last performed a great achievement by having a unanimous vote 
on almost every provision of its report. 


This unanimity created an atmosphere of harmony and confidence in 
the majority community. Therefore, the word “propagate” should be 
maintained in this article in order that the compromise so laudably 
achieved by the Minority Committee should not be disturbed. That is all 
that I want to submit.— 


Having become aware of the inclinations of the High Command, 
Congress members of the Constituent Assembly were quick to fall in line. 
Article 19 was ‘added to the Constitution’ with two minor amendments 
accepted by Dr. B. R. Ambedkar, who was piloting the Constitution in the 
Constituent Assembly. The right of Christians “to propagate religion” had 
become their “right to convert other people”. And the “people” included 
minor children. 


After a revision of the draft articles. Article 19 became Article 25 of 
the Constitution. And so it stays today. The right of Christians to convert 
non-Christians including minors stands fully protected. 


Christians heaved a sigh of relief after months of hectic activity. Their 
spontaneous reaction was, “Pandit Nehru proves himself a gentleman.”— 
Pandit Laxmi Kant Maitra, Mr. Krishnaswamy Bharati and Mr. T. T. 
Krishnamachari were congratulated for “their noble and courageous 
defence of the rights of a minority.”— 


Meanwhile, on August 15, 1948, exactly one year after attainment of 
independence India had “recognized the unique position of the Catholic 
Church by establishing diplomatic relations with the Vatican.” While 
presenting his credentials to the Pope, “Mr. Dhirajlal Desai, the first Indian 
Ambassador to the Holy See, testified to India’s great reverence for 
Christ.” India, according to Desai, was a new state “created by the 
sacrifices of the people, guided by one who sought to mould his life 
according to the message of Christ” and who had “affirmed the oneness of 
God and the greatness of the religious ideal proclaimed in the Sermon on 
the Mount.”— 


Mahatma Gandhi was dead by that time. His views on Christ, 
Christianity, One God of Biblical theologies and the Sermon on the Mount, 
however, had been expressed not so long ago. Moreover, those views had 
been compiled in a book, Christian Missions: Their Place in India, 
published in 1941. One wonders whether Mr. Desai or those in the 
External Affairs Ministry who prepared his brief, were aware of those 
views or tried to find them out before presenting Mahatma Gandhi to the 
Pope as a follower of Christ. No one thought of presenting him as a great 
Hindu. The praises he had heaped on Jesus and the Sermon on the Mount 
had come in handy as nails in his coffin. 


Footnotes: 

- Constituent Assembly Debates, Volume III, 1947, p. 488. 
2//7/J.,p.489. 


489-490. 

^Ibid.,^A90. 

-Ibid., pp. 490-91. 

- Procedural details have been left out. 

- Ibid., pp. 491-92. 

- Ibid., p. 492. English translation of speech in Hindustani. 
2/^/J.,p.493. 

^Ibid.,^.A9A. 

^/M.,p.495. 

— Ibid,, pp. 496-97 

— Ibid., pp. 497-99. English translation of speech in Hindustani. 
— Ibid., pp. 499-500. English translation of speech in Hindustani 
— Ibid., pp. 500-501. English translation of speech in Hindustani 
^Ibid., pp. 501-502. 

— Ibid., pp. 502-503. 

^ Ibid., ^.593. 

— The National Christian Council Review, June-July 1947, pp. 
273-74. 

2Q/^iW.,p.278. 

— Ibid., August 1947, p. 343 


— Ibid., p. 351. 

— Ibid., pp. 352-54. Emphasis in source. 

— Constituent Assembly Debates, Volume 5,1947, p. 363. 

— Ibid., p. 364. 

— Ibid., p. 364. English translation of speech in Hindustani. 

— Ibid., pp, 364-65. 

— Ibid., p. 365. 

— The National Christian Council Review, October 1947, p. All. 

— Ibid., p. 512. Emphasis added. 

— B. Shiva Rao, op.cit., p. 264 

— Constituent Assembly Debates, Volume 7, p. 820. 

^ Ibid.,^.^22. 

— Pandit Nehru knew very well what the subject was. But he had 
his own way of showing contempt for those who stood by Hinduism. 

^Ibid., pp. 823-24. 

^ Ibid., 

— Eakshmi Kanta Maitra gave great strength to the Christian case. 
He was a well known scholar and Sanskrit Pandit. One can he sure 
that he knew Vivekananda’s position vis-a-vis Christian missions. 
Swamiji had accused them of spreading calculated misinformation 
about India’s culture and heritage. But the Pandit had his own reasons 
- reasons which we cannot point out in print - for twisting 
Vivekananda in order to serve the Christian cause. 


^Ibid., pp. 831-33. 

— The Vice-President, Mr. H.C. Mookerjee, was, a Christian. 

^Ibid., pp. 833-34. 

^Ibid., pp. 834-35. 

^Ibid., pp. 835-36. 

— Ibid., pp. 836-37. The business empire which T. T. 
Krishnamachari built in the pre-and post-independence period had 
and has been helping Christian missions in various ways - for reasons 
which cannot be discussed here. 

^Ibid., pp. 437-38. 

— Felix Alfred Plattner, The Catholic Church in India: Yesterday 
and Today, Allahabad, 1964, p. 1. The book was first published in 
German from Mainz, West Germany, in 1963. 


— Ibid., p. 6. 

^Ibid.,^.^. 


17 

Missions Since Independence 


The Constitution of independent India adopted in January 1950 made 
things quite smooth for the Christian missions. They surged forward with 
renewed vigour. Nationalist resistance to what had been viewed as an 
imperialist incubus during the Struggle for Freedom, broke down when the 
very leaders who had frowned upon it started speaking in its favour. Voices 
which still remained ‘recalcitrant’ were sought to be silenced by being 
branded as those of ‘Hindu communalism’. Nehruvian Secularism had 
stolen a march under the cover of Mahatma Gandhi’s sarva-dharma- 
sambhAva. 


The followers of Mahatma Gandhi were the first to forget what their 
Master had said repeatedly on the subject of proselytization. Some of them 
found berths in the new power set-up and fell in. line with Pandit Nehru. 
Some others who felt frustrated for one reason or the other became 
fascinated by Mao-tse Tung and started seeing the Mahatma reincarnated 
in Red China. Constructive workers of the Gandhian movement gave 
priority to economic programmes and sidelined all social and cultural 
problems. A new breed of ‘Gandhians’ became busy floating Voluntary 
Agencies and looking forward to being funded by Western Foundations. 
Some of these foundations were avowedly dedicated to promoting only 
Christian causes. Small wonder that these ‘Gandhians’ became, in due 
course, active or passive accomplices of the Christian missions. 


The worst crisis, however, overtook those who became known as 
Hindu leaders in post-independence India. So long as the Mahatma was 
alive they had prospered by accusing him of promoting ‘Muslim and 
Christian causes’ at the cost of ‘Hindu interests’. Now that he was no 
more, they did not really know what to do. Some of them continued to live 



in the past, deriving satisfaction from cursing the Mahatma for misleading 
the country for all time to come. Others revised their attitude towards him 
but they did so more out of convenience than conviction. Sarva-dharma- 
samabhAva acquired a new meaning for them. Criticism of Christian, 
dogmas became a ‘negative’ approach. The ‘positive’ approach, they 
started saying, should match the missionary effort in the fields of 
education, medicine and social services. It did not occur to them that 
Hindu society being poor and bereft of a state of its own was in no position 
to run the race. The ‘positive’ approach thus became, for all practical 
purposes, an excuse for not facing the problem at all. 


The bright sunshine in which Christian missions started basking can be 
reported best in the words of a Jesuit missionary. “The Indian Church,” 
writes Plattner, “has reason to be glad that the Constitution of the country 
guarantees her an atmosphere of freedom and equality with other much 
stronger religious communities. Under the protection of this guarantee she 
is able, ever since independence, not only to carry on but to increase and 
develop her activity as never before without serious hindrance or anxiety. - 
The number of foreign missionaries registered an unprecedented increase. 
“One must admit,” continues Plattner, “that the number of missionaries 
who came to India soon after independence had perceptibly increased. 
During the war years very few of them ever reached India. So a kind of 
surplus was building in Europe with corresponding lack of personnel in 
India... At the same time the Communists were expelling thousands of 
missionaries - mainly members of the American sects - from China. Some 
of them were then transferred to India but not all of them could adapt 
themselves to Indian conditions 


Far more foreboding than this forward march of the Christian missions, 
however, was the fact that they were able to take in their stride two serious 
exposures of their character and activities made during the fifties. The first 
jolt they received was from a book by K. M. Panikkar published in 1953. 
The second was the publication, in 1956, of the Niyogi Committee’s report 


on missionary activities in Madhya Pradesh. The powers that be - the 
Government, the political parties, the national press and the intellectual 
elite - either protected the missions for one reason or the other or shied 
away from studying and discussing the exposures publicly for fear of 
being accused of ‘Hindu communalism’, the ultimate swear-word in the 
armoury of Nehruvian Secularism. 


Panikkar’s study was primarily aimed at providing a survey of Western 
imperialism in Asia from A.D. 1498 to 1945. Christian missions came into 
the picture simply because he found them arrayed, always and everywhere, 
alongside Western gunboats, diplomatic pressures, extraterritorial rights 
and plain gangsterism. Contemporary records, consulted by him, could not 
but cut to size the inflated images of Christian heroes like Francis Xavier 
and Matteo Ricci. They were found to be not much more than minions 
employed by European kings and princes scheming to carve out empires in 
the East. Their methods of trying to convert kings or commoners in Asia 
were fraudulent or conspiratorial or morally questionable. Seeing that 
“missionary activities... were connected with Western political supremacy 
in Asia and synchronised with it”,- Panikkar had concluded, “It may 
indeed be said that the most serious, persistent and planned effort of 
European nations in the nineteenth century was their missionary activities 
in India and China where a large scale attempt was made to effect a mental 
and spiritual conquest as supplementing the political supremacy already 
enjoyed by Europe 


What hurt the missionaries most, however, was Panikkar’s observation 
that “the doctrine of the monopoly of truth and revelation is altogether 
alien to the Asian mind” and that “practically every educated Asian who 
seriously and conscientiously studied to understand the point of view of 
the missionary, from Emperor Kang Hsi to Mahatma Gandhi, has 
emphasised this point.”- He had knocked the bottom out of the missionary 
enterprise. No monopoly of truth and revelation, no missions. It was as 
simple as that. 


The missionaries were up in arms. “To prove his point,” they said, 
“Panikkar picks and chooses historical facts and then deals with them one- 
sidely.” But none of them came out with facts which could redeem or even 
counterbalance those presented by Panikkar. Efforts to explain them away 
or put another interpretation on them, also remained a poor exercise. Fr. 
Jerome D’Souza had jibed, “A very fine narrative Mr. Panikkar, but you 
must not call it history.”- He or his missionary colleagues, however, never 
bothered to tell what was that history which Panikkar had not taken into 
account. Subsequent Christian writings show that missionaries have not 
been able to stop smarting from the hurt caused by Panikkar’s study. 


The message that Panikkar had tried to convey to Asians, particularly, 
his own countrymen, was that the history of Christianity was, for all 
practical purposes, a running commentary on the Christian doctrine. 
Christian missions were quick to understand it although they have never 
acknowledged the debt. Ever since, Christian historians have been making 
herculean efforts to salvage the doctrine from the history it had created. By 
now there is a plethora of Christian literature which bemoans ‘the colonial 
handicap’ that has stood in the way of Christ scoring over Rama and 
Krishna. And there has been a determined effort to present to the Indian 
people what Stanley Jones has described as the ‘disentangled Christ’. It is 
only India’s politicians and intellectual elite who have failed to grasp what 
Panikkar had revealed about the character of the Christian doctrine. 


Thus howsoever serious the flutter which Panikkar’s book caused 
inside missionary dovecotes, the atmosphere outside continued to be 
favourable for them. Of course, ‘narrow minded Hindus and fanatical 
Communists’ provided some pen-pricks off and on. But they came to 
nothing in every instance. “The question was raised in Parliament,” 
narrates Plattner, “as to whether the right to propagate religion was 
applicable only to Indian citizens or also to foreigners residing in India, for 
example the missionaries. In March 1954, the Supreme Court of India- 


expressed its opinion that this right was a fundamental one firmly 
established in the Constitution and thus applied to everyone - citizen and 
non-citizen alike - who enjoyed the protection of India’s laws. With this 
explanation the missionaries were expressly authorised to spread the faith, 
thus fulfilling the task entrusted to them by the Church 


In 1955 a bill came before Parliament “which if passed would have 
seriously handicapped the work of missionaries”, because it “provided for 
a strict system of regulating conversions.” The issue was conversions 
brought about by force, fraud or material inducements. But no less a 
person than the Prime Minister of India, Pandit Nehru, came to the rescue 
of Christian missions and persuaded the Parliament to throw out the bill. “I 
fear that this bill,” said Pandit Nehru, “will not help very much in 
suppressing evil methods but might very well be the cause of great 
harassment to a large number of people. We should deal with those evils 
on a different plane, in other ways, not in this way which may give rise to 
other ways of coercion. Christianity is one of the important religions of 
India, established here for nearly two thousand years. We must not do 
anything which gives rise to any feeling of oppression or suppression in 
the minds of our Christian friends and fellow-countrymen .”- 


The signing of the defence pact between the U.S.A. and Pakistan in 
1954 had, however, made the Government of India somewhat strict about 
granting of visas to foreign, particularly American, missionaries. “The 
Catholic Bishops of India,” writes Plattner, “found it very difficult to 
reconcile themselves to this new turn of affairs, which they considered 
highly unpleasant and unjustifiable. In March 1955 a delegation under the 
leadership of Cardinal Gracias of Bombay requested an interview with 
Prime Minister Nehru and Home Minister Pandit Pant, who had succeeded 
Dr. Katju.”- Pandit Nehru, according to the Secretary of the Catholic 
Bishops’ Conference of India, was “sympathetic but pointed out that the 
problem was political and national, not religious.” Pandit Pant, on the 
other hand, gave a practical advice which proved very helpful to the 


missions in the long run. “He could not understand,” continues Plattner, 
“why the Catholic Church, which had a long and historic existence in the 
country, had not succeeded in training Indian priests and professors for 
seminaries. The interview helped us to realise that in every sphere we have 
to recruit locally and train selected candidates for responsible positions.”— 
The Home Minister of India, it seems, had no objection to the sale of a 
narcotic provided the vendors were native. Nor did he see any danger in 
the spread of a network financed and controlled from abroad. The lesson 
that the East India Company had subjugated the country by training and 
employing native mercenaries, had not been learnt. 


What the network was doing was revealed soon after by the report of 
an Enquiry Committee appointed by the Government of Madhya Pradesh. 
“In the words of the Secretary of the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of 
India,” reports Plattner, “it created a sensation everywhere in India. Eor the 
Committee roundly condemned the efforts of Catholic and Protestant 
missionaries among the aboriginal tribesmen of the State’s remote rural 
areas. The converts, it was alleged, were estranged from the ways of their 
own country with the express purpose of creating a ‘State within a State’. 
It expressed the fear that one day the Christian community would assert its 
right to form a separate state as the Moslems of Pakistan had done.”— 


The appointment of the Committee was occasioned by “the activities 
of some Mission organisations in the recently Merged States of Raigarh, 
Udaipur, Jashpur and Surguja” where trouble had been reported soon after 
their merger in Madhya Pradesh. “This strip of land,” recorded the 
Committee, “comprising Surguja, Korea, Jashpur, Udaipur, Chang-bhakar 
and some other small States of Orissa is surrounded by Bihar and Orissa 
States and is inhabited by a very large percentage of aboriginals. The tract 
is full of forests and mineral resources. Eoreign Missionaries from 
Belgium and Germany had established themselves in Bihar and Orissa and 
also in Jashpur in 1834 and had succeeded in converting a very large 
number of people to Christianity. In order to consolidate and enhance their 


prestige, and possibly to afford scope for alien interests in this tract, the 
Missionaries were reported to be carrying on propaganda for the isolation 
of the Aboriginals from other sections of the community, and the 
movement of Jharkhand was thus started. This movement was approved by 
the Aboriginals, local Christians and Muslims and the Missionaries sought 
to keep it under their influence by excluding all the nationalist elements 
from this movement. The demand for Adiwasisthan was accentuated along 
with the one for Pakistan in 1938. The Muslim League is reported to have 
donated Rs. One Lakh for propaganda work. With the advent of political 
independence in India, the agitation for Adiwasisthan was intensified with 
a view to forming a sort of corridor joining East Bengal with Hyderabad, 
which could be used for a pincer movement against India in the event of a 
war between India and Pakistan.”— 


The missionaries had not welcomed the merger of these states with 
Madhya Pradesh. “On the integration of the States,” according to the 
Committee, “Missionaries became afraid of losing their influence. So they 
started an agitation, playing on the religious feelings of the primitive 
Christian converts, representing the Madhya Pradesh Government as 
consisting of infidels and so on. Some of the articles published in 
Missionary papers, such as ‘Nishkalank’, ‘Adiwasi’ and ‘Jharkhand’ were 
hardly distinguishable from writings in Muslim papers advocating 
Pakistan, before the 15th of August 1947. The Missionaries launched a 
special attack on the opening of schools by Madhya Pradesh Government 
under the Backward Area Welfare Scheme.”— 


Simultaneously, Mr. Jaipal Singh, member of the Constituent 
Assembly and President of the All India Adiwasi Mahasabha, “accused the 
Bihar Government with failure to serve the people by not insisting on the 
integration of those states with Bihar.” A pro-Bihar agitation was started in 
November 1947 and some Congressmen from Bihar were roped in. These 
Congressmen, however, became wise when they saw what the agitation 
was aimed at. They “brought to the District Superintendent of Police’s 


notice that there was a conspiracy between Pakistan and some American 
and German missionaries to instigate the aboriginals to take Possession of 
their own land commonly known as Jharkhand.”— The Jharkhand News 
reported on March 6, 1949 a controversy “between Shri Jaipalsingh and 
Professor Hayward, his secretary, as regards the person who had received 
the amount of 50,000 from the Muslim League.”— 


The Government of Madhya Pradesh had to take notice of the agitation 
worked up by Christian missionaries. It had already led to violence in the 
adjoining States merged with Orissa. The missionaries had become too 
powerful in Madhya Pradesh to be ignored any longer. “It must be 
noticed,” recorded the Committee, “that about 30 different Missions are 
working in Madhya Pradesh with varying number of centres in each 
district. Almost the entire Madhya Pradesh is covered by Missionary 
activities and there is hardly any district where a Mission of one 
denomination or the other is not operating in some form or the other. More 
than half the people of Madhya Pradesh (57.4 percent) consist of members 
of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes 
and it is amongst these that Missionary activities are mostly confined.”— 


The appointment of the Committee was announced on April 16, 1954 
by a press note of the Government of Madhya Pradesh which said, 
“Representations have been made to Government from time to time that 
Christian Missionaries either forcibly or through fraud and temptations of 
monetary and other gain convert illiterate aboriginals and other backward 
people thereby offending the feelings of non Christians. It has further been 
represented that Missions are utilised directly or indirectly for purposes of 
extra-religious objectives. The Christian Missionaries have repudiated 
these allegations and have asserted on the other hand that their activities 
are confined solely to religious propaganda and towards social, medical 
and educational work. The Missionaries have further alleged that they are 
being harassed by non-Christian people and local officials. As agitation 
has been growing on either side, the State Government consider it 


desirable in the public interest to have a thorough inquiry made into the 
whole question through an impartial Committee.”— 


The Committee had seven members including the Chairman, Dr. 
Bhawani Shankar Niyogi, retired Chief justice of the Nagpur High Court. 
Mr. K.C. George, a professor in the Commerce College at Wardha, 
represented the Christian community. It started by studying the material in 
government files. As a result it was led to enlarge its terms of reference to 
include political and extra-religious activities also. “The material gathered 
in the initial stages of the enquiry revealed to the Committee that its 
significance far transcended the bounds of any one country or region in the 
world and that it was calculated to have world-wide repercussions. That 
compelled the Committee to view the subject as an integral part of a larger 
picture on the broad canvas of world history. The Committee had to 
consult a number of published books, pamphlets and periodicals for 
determining the nature and form of their recommendations.”— 


The terms of reference enabled the Committee to evolve a 
Questionnaire which was sent to such individuals and organisations as 
could help in the investigation. It received 385 replies to the 
Questionnaire, 55 from Christians and 330 from non-Christians. Besides, 
the Committee toured 14 districts in which it visited 77 centres, contacted 
11,360 persons, and received 375 written statements. Hospitals, schools, 
churches, leper homes, hostels, etc., maintained by various missions were 
among the Christian institutions visited by the Committee. The persons 
interviewed came from 700 villages. 


“In all these places,” recorded the Committee, “there was unanimity as 
regards the excellent service rendered by the Missionaries in the fields of 
education and medical relief. But on the other hand there was a general 
complaint from the non-Christian side that the schools and hospitals were 
being used as means of securing converts. There was no disparagement of 


Christianity or of Jesus Christ, and no objection to the preaching of 
Christianity and even to conversions to Christianity. The objection was to 
the illegitimate methods alleged to be adopted by the Missionaries for this 
purpose, such as offering allurements of free education and other facilities 
to children attending their schools, adding some Christian names to their 
original Indian names, marriages with Christian girls, moneylending, 
distributing Christian literature in hospitals and offering prayers in the 
wards of in-door patients. Reference was also made to the practice of the 
Roman Catholic priests or preachers visiting new-born babies to give 
‘ashish’ (blessings) in the name of Jesus, taking sides in litigation or 
domestic quarrels, kidnapping of minor children and abduction of women 
and recruitment of labour for plantations in Assam or Andaman as a means 
of propagating the Christian faith among the ignorant and illiterate people. 
There was a general tendency to suspect some ulterior political or extra¬ 
religious motive, in the influx of foreign money for evangelistic work in its 
varied forms. The concentration of Missionary enterprise on the hill tribes 
in remote and inaccessible parts of the forest areas and their mass 
conversion with the aid of foreign money were interpreted as intended to 
prepare the ground for a separate independent State on the lines of 
Pakistan.”— 


To start with, Christian missions put up a show of cooperation with the 
Committee. But they realized very soon that the Committee was well- 
informed and meant business. “The authorities and members of the Roman 
Catholic Church cooperated with the Committee in their exploratory tours 
in Raigarh, Surguja, Bilaspur, Raipur and Nimar districts. Shri G. X. 
Francis, President of the Catholic Regional Council, and Shri P. Lobo, 
Advocate, High Court, Nagpur, associated themselves with the Committee. 
But subsequently the Catholic Church withdrew its cooperation, not only 
filing statement of protest, but also moving the High court for a Mandamus 
Petition (Miscellaneous Petition No. 263 of 1955).”— 


The Petition was dismissed by the High Court on April 12, 1956, 
“holding that it was within the competence of the State Government to 
appoint a fact-finding Committee to collect information and that there had 
been no infringement of any fundamental rights of the petitioner.” At the 
same time the High Court made some adverse remarks about certain 
questions in the Questionnaire. The Committee considered the remarks 
and “informed the petitioner and the public that none of the questions 
represented either the views of the Committee or any individual member 
thereof and our anxiety to have information on various points was due to 
our desire to find out to what extent, if any, could any activity be 
considered to infringe the limits of public order, morality and health 
imposed by the Constitution.”— 


The Report of the Committee, published in July 1956, presented the 
“history of Christian missions with special reference to the old Madhya 
Pradesh and Merged States.”— Coming to the agitation for Jharkhand, it 
gave the background. “The separatist tendency,” it said, “that has gripped 
the mind of the aboriginals under the influence of the Lutheran and Roman 
Catholic Missions is entirely due to the consistent policy pursued by the 
British Government and the Missionaries. The final segregation of the 
aborigines in the Census of 1931 from the main body of the Hindus 
considered along with the recommendations of the Simon Commission 
which were incorporated in the Government of India Act, 1935 apparently 
set the stage for the demand of a separate State of Jharkhand on the lines 
of Pakistan.”— 


The subsequent formation of the Adiwasi Mahasabha and the 
Jharkhand Party followed in stages as the separatist forces gathered 
strength. “This attempt of the Adiwasis,” observed the Report, “initiated 
by the Christian section thereof is a feature which is common to, the 
developments in Burma, -Assam and Indo-China among the Karens, 
Nagas and Amboynes. This is attributed to the spirit of religious 
nationalism awakened among the converted Christians as among the 


followers of other religions. But the idea of change of religion as bringing 
about change of nationality appears to have originated in the Missionary 
circles... Thus while the Census officer isolates certain sections of the 
people from the main bodies, the Missionaries by converting them give 
them a separate nationality so that they may demand a separate State for 
themselves.”— 


Next, the Report considered “Christian post-war world policy,”— and 
quoted from several Christian sources. The aim of this policy in India was 
three fold: “(1) to resist the progress of national unity... (2) to emphasise 
the difference in the attitude towards the principle of coexistence between 
India and America... (3) to take advantage of the freedom accorded by the 
Constitution of India to the propagation of religion, and to create a 
Christian party in the Indian democracy on lines of the Muslim League 
ultimately to make out a claim for a separate State, or at least to create a 
‘militant minority’ .”— 


The newly adopted Constitution of India, according to the Committee, 
had encouraged the controllers of Christian missions in Europe and 
America to concentrate on India. “Although Europe itself,” observed the 
Report, “required ‘re-Evangelisation and re-Christianisation’ because of 
the spread of the Gospel of Communism according to Marx, the W.C.C.— 
and I.M.C.— turned their attention to India and other colonial countries. 
They were encouraged by the promulgation of our Constitution which set 
up a secular State with liberty to propagate any religion in the country. 
They noted that the Churches in India were growing steadily in number 
partly by natural increase, partly from evangelisation and that the mass or 
community movements to Christianity did not die out though slowed 
down, but that the spiritual life of the congregation was low and that the 
Indian Church lacked economic maturity. Though India has the most 
highly organised National Christian Council it had to be largely paid for 
from abroad. Even the institutional activities of Missions, viz., schools, 
colleges and hospitals were dependent upon foreign support. Even the 


ordinary congregational life and pastoral duty still required some form of 
foreign aid.”— 


The Report surveyed the state of religious liberty in various countries 
in the past and at present. It cited High Court Judgments in India to the 
effect that religious liberty is “not an absolute protection to be interpreted 
and applied independently of other provisions of the Constitution.”— Then 
it turned to “missionary activities in Madhya Pradesh since independence 
as disclosed by oral and documentary evidence.”— This was the most 
substantial as well as the most revealing part of the Report. It laid bare 
what the Christian Missions had been doing not only in Madhya Pradesh 
but all over India in the name of exercising religious liberty. 


There was a detailed account of “how this programme of mass 
proselytisation was inspired and financed by foreigners”— and how the 
paid pracharaks of various missions had fanned out in the rural and tribal 
areas. The pracharaks were particularly noticeable in the erstwhile Native 
States which had kept missionary operations under control before their 
merger in Madhya Pradesh. “It is thus indisputably clear,” recorded the 
Report, “that financial assistance from abroad had been extended in far 
more liberal manner than even before the Constitution of India was 
promulgated, and that it is mainly with this help that Mission organisations 
are carrying on proselytisation amongst backward tribes, especially in 
areas freshly opened.”— 


This greatly extended scale of missionary operations was dressed up 
ideologically in a new theological concept. “It may be recalled,” 
commented the Report, “that the expression ‘Partnership in Obedience’ 
came into vogue at the meeting of the Committee of the international 
Missionary Council held at Whitby in 1947 (page 94, World Christian 
Handbook, 1952) and it has a bearing on the expression ‘need of particular 


churches to be rooted in the soil and yet supranational in their witness and 
obedience’ (page 29, ibid.). These particular churches are in the old 
Mission fields ‘which are touched by new nationalisms independent in 
temper and organisation and yet needing help from other churches’ (page 
29, ibid.). The expression ‘Partnership in Obedience’ was being 
interpreted variously and it was after discussion at a meeting of the 
Lutheran World Federation Executive and also of the Executive of the 
World Council of Churches held at Geneva in 1951, that it came to be 
interpreted as implying full and unreserved cooperation between the old 
and the younger churches in the effort of extending the Kingdom of 
God.”— In plain language, the pompous proclamation meant that missions 
and churches in Europe and America which provided the finance would 
continue to plan, direct and control missionary activities in India. 


The Report quoted Christian sources to show the extent to which 
Christianity in India was dependent on foreign finance. Rolland Allan had 
written in his book. The Spontaneous Expansion of the Church, published 
in 1949, that “it is money, money everywhere, all the time, everything 
depends on money.” In another book. Missionary Methods: St. Paul’s or 
Our’s, published by the same author in 1953, he had felt “sad to sit and 
watch a stream of Christian visitors calling upon a Missionary and to 
observe that in nearly every case the cause which brings them is money.” 
Christianity in the Indian Crucible by Dr. E. Asirvatham had been 
published in 1955. “One chief reason,” he had observed, “why Indian 
Christians in general still welcome foreign Missionaries is economy; it is 
an open secret that the Indian Church is not yet out of the swaddling 
clothes, so far as its economic support is concerned. To give an extreme 
illustration only Rs. 6,000 of the total income of Rs. 1,12,500 of the 
National Christian Council of India... is from Indian sources and the rest 
comes from the Mission Boards abroad.”— It was curious that Christianity 
was presented as a two-thousand years old banyan tree when it came to its 
right to spread its tentacles, and as a tender seedling when it came to its 
capacity for growing up on its own. 


The Report provided details of how much had been contributed by 
which Western country to the total of Rs. 29.27 crores received by 
Christian missions in India from January 1950 to June 1954: 


Country 

Amount in Rs. 

U.S.A. 

U.K. 

Canada 

Sweden 

Denmark 

Norway 

Rest of Sterling Area 
Switzerland 

Aid from non-Sterling Area 
Germany 

France 

Belgium 

20,68,63,000 

4,83,89,000 

1,67,56,000 

64,41,000 

33,91,000 

27,97,000 

25,29,000 

15,77,000 

14,72,000 

11,72,000 

7,61,000 

6,47,000 


29,27,000^^ 


The Report revealed that the bulk of this foreign money received 
ostensibly for maintaining ‘educational and medical institutions’ was spent 
on proselytisation. “It has been contended,” said the Report, “that most of 
the amount is utilised for creating a class of professional proselytisers, 
both foreign as well as Indian. We have not been able to get the figures of 
the salaries which the foreign Missionaries receive for their service in 





India. Only Rev. Hartman (Amravati No. 1) was pleased to declare that his 
salary was 63 dollars per month paid from Home, plus free quarters and 
vehicle allowance. One can have some idea of the scale of salaries of 
American Missionaries from the fact that in the American Evangelical and 
Reformed Church there are 28 Missionaries on the India roll and under the 
head of Missionary salaries and appurtenances the figure comes to 
90,072,23 dollars (American Evangelistic and Reformed Church Blue 
Book, 1955, pages 56,60). They are supplied with well-furnished 
bungalows, and they command resources in vehicles and other things.”— 
At the same time it noted a great disparity between the scales of salaries 
and allowances paid to foreign missionaries on the one hand and to their 
native mercenaries on the other. 


There were 480 foreign missionaries working in Madhya Pradesh at 
that time. Out of them as many as 236 were Americans. The Report gave a 
count of foreign missionaries, Americans and others, stationed in the 22 
districts of the then Madhya Pradesh. “Besides those,” it added, “included 
in the number given by the National Christian Council in the Christian 
Handbook of India 1954-55, it appears from the statement of Rev. R. C. 
Das that there is a large number of unattached evangelists. Rev. Das’s 
statement receives support from the remark made in the Compiler’s 
introduction to the Christian Hand-Book of India 1954-55 that the 
increased personnel has occurred in the smaller Missions most of which do 
not yet have any organised Churches.”— 


The methods of proselytisation had remained the same as in days of 
old. The Report gave concrete instances of how mission schools were used 
to influence the minds of young people. Harijan and ‘Adivasi’ students 
came in for special attention. They were “given free boarding, lodging and 
books” provided they attended Christian prayers. Bible classes were made 
compulsory by treating as absent for the whole day those students who 
failed to be present in those classes. School celebrations were used for 
showing the victory of the cross over all other symbols. Hospitals were 


used for putting pressure on poor class patients to embrace Christianity. 
The richest harvest, however, was reaped in mission orphanages which 
collected orphans during famines and other natural calamities such as 
floods and earthquakes. “No wonder,” observed the Report, “that the 
largest number of converts are from such backward classes living in areas 
where due to various causes only Mission schools and hospitals exist. 
Most conversions have been doubtless insincere admittedly brought about 
in expectation of social service benefits and other material 
considerations 


Another device employed for proselytisation was moneylending. 
Roman Catholic mission had specialised in this field. Poor people often 
approached the local missionary for loans which are written off if the 
debtor became a convert; otherwise he had to repay it with interest which 
he often found difficult. Protestant missionaries and others cited before the 
Committee instances of how this method worked. One of the conditions 
for getting a loan, for instance, was that the recipient agreed to chop off the 
top-knot (chotl), the symbol of his being a Hindu. “Some of the people,” 
the Report noted, “who had received loans were minors and casual 
labourers. It also appeared that when one member of a family had taken a 
loan, all the other members of that family were entered in the book as 
potential converts. The rate of interest charged was 10 per cent and in a 
large number of cases examined, one year’s interest was deducted in 
advance. On being questioned, the people without any hesitation, said that 
their only purpose in going to the Mission had been to get money; and all 
said that without the lure of money none would have sought to become 
Christian.”— Some other allurements such as the “promise of gift of salt, 
plough, bullocks and even milk powder received from abroad” were used 
to the same effect.— 


There were several other ways of attracting converts. For instance, the 
new converts were employed as pracharaks on salaries ranging from Rs. 
40/- to Rs. 100/- per month. This by itself proved an attractive proposition 


to those who were not in a position or qualified to earn even Rs. 20/-. 
Christians working in various government departments were exhorted and 
expected to participate in the game. Those who did not help were cursed in 
missionary publications. Christians placed in higher positions and 
missionaries who became influential members of the Janapad Sabhas put 
pressure on junior officers for influencing people in favour of Christianity. 


The Report also noted “various methods of propagating Christianity.”— 
Missionary publications “attacked idol worship in rather offensive terms.” 
Dramas in which idol worship was ridiculed were performed in schools 
and elsewhere. Songs to the same effect were composed and sung. Rama 
was “described as a God who destroyed Ravan and was contrasted with 
Jesus who died for the wicked.” Methods evolved for conveying 
Christianity in Hindu cultural forms were also in evidence. Some of them 
were plainly dishonest, as for instance, “the expression occurring in 
Tulsidas’s Ramayan, viz. ‘Girjapujan’ was interpreted to the people as 
‘Girjaghar’ i.e., a Church.”— But, on the whole, preference was given to 
vicious attacks on Hinduism, which was held up as a false religion. “Such 
virulent and sinister attacks on Hinduism,” observed the Report, “are in no 
way a departure from the manner which characterised the Christian 
preaching in the past, which Gandhiji referred to, particularly Bishop 
Heber’s famous hymn, ‘where every prospect pleases and only man is 
vile’.”^ 


The Report contained a section on Mass Conversions brought about by 
material inducements. “If conversion is an individual act,” it noted, “one 
would expect deep thought and study of the particular religion one wanted 
to embrace. But what we have found is groups of illiterate Adivasis, with 
families and children getting their top-knots cut and being shown as 
Christians. Most of them do not know even the rudiments of the new 
religion... The Government has supplied us with a list of persons recently 
converted in the Surguja district after the promulgation of the Constitution. 
A perusal thereof will show that about 4000 Uraons were converted in two 


years. Persons of varying ages from 60 years to 1 year are shown as 
converts and the list includes women and children also. We have met many 
Uraons in the course of our tours and we were struck very much by their 
total absence of religious feeling.”— 


The Committee had “reliable information that Mission organisations 
possess upto-date records of Baptisms.”— But they refused to produce 
these records. “It would not be unsafe,” concluded the Report, “to presume 
that the reluctance on the part of the Roman Catholic Mission 
organisations to produce such evidence was in no small measure due to the 
fear of the Truth being out... As a rule, groups have been converted, and 
we find ‘individual conversion’ has been an exception rather than the rule. 
We have come across cases of individual conversions only of persons who 
are village leaders and they have invariably been followed by ‘Mass 
conversions’ of the entire village soon after. We have not found it possible 
to accept the contention that the immediate material prosperity of these 
converted leaders bore no causal relation to their conversions.”— 


The Report expressed the view that conversions led directly to 
denationalisation. Greetings such as ‘Ram Ram’ and ‘Jai Hind’ were 
substituted with ‘Jai Yeshu’. “The idea of the unique Lordship of Christ,” 
recorded the Report, “is propagated in rural areas by the exhibition of the 
film ‘King of Kings’, which we had the pleasure of witnessing at Buldana. 
The supremacy of the Christian flag over the National flag of India was 
also depicted in the drama which was staged in a school at Jabalpur.”— 
The missionary paper, Nishkalanka, had written, “Why does India desire 
that Portugal which has been exercising sovereignty for 400 years over 
Goa should surrender it? The fact is that a large majority of residents of 
Goa are quite contented with their present condition. Only a handful of 
Goans resident in Goa and in India are shouting for the merger of Goa with 
India. This attitude is not justified and those who are following this course 
are giving unrighteous lead to India.”— The missions thus sided with 


Western imperialism and pooh-poohed India’s aspiration to reclaim 
national territory under foreign occupation. 


Finally, the Report found no substance in the Christian complaint that 
the Government of Madhya Pradesh was following a policy of 
discrimination against Christians. ‘The Government of Madhya Pradesh,’ 
it said, “have throughout followed a policy of absolute neutrality and non¬ 
interference in matters concerning religion and allegations of 
discrimination against Christians and harassment of them by Government 
officials have not been established. Such allegations have been part of the 
old established policy of the Missions to overawe local authority and to 
carry on propaganda in foreign countries.”— 


The Report was quite clear in its larger perceptions. “Evangelisation in 
India,” it said, “appears to be part of the uniform world policy to revive 
Christendom for re-establishing Western supremacy and is not prompted 
by spiritual motives. The objective is to disrupt the solidarity of the non- 
Christian societies, and the mass conversion of a considerable section of 
Adivasis with this ulterior motive is fraught with danger to the security of 
the State.”— The Christian missions were making a deliberate and 
determined “attempt to alienate Indian Christian Community from their 
nation.”— The Community was most likely to become a victim of foreign 
manipulations in times of crisis.— The history of the Christian missions 
provided ample proof that religion had been used for political purposes.— 
Evangelization was not a religious philosophy but a force for 
politicisation.— The Church in India was not independent but accountable 
to those who paid for its upkeep. The concept of ‘Partnership in 
Obedience’ which covered the flow of foreign finances to the Church was 
of a piece with the strategy of Subsidiary Alliances which the East India 
Company had employed earlier for furthering and consolidating its 
conquests.— And conversions were nothing but politics by other means.— 


The recommendations made by the Report followed logically from 
these perceptions. It recommended that (1) those missionaries whose 
primary object is proselytisation should be asked to withdraw and the large 
influx of foreign missionaries should be checked; (2) the use of medical 
and other professional services as a direct means of making conversions 
should be prohibited by law; (3) attempts to convert by force or fraud or 
material inducements, or by taking advantage of a person’s inexperience or 
confidence or spiritual weakness or thoughtlessness, or by penetrating into 
the religious conscience of persons for the purpose of consciously altering 
their faith, should be absolutely prohibited; (4) the Constitution of India 
should be amended in order to rule out propagation by foreigners and 
conversions by force, fraud and other illicit means; (5) legislative 
measures should be enacted for controlling conversion by illegal means; 
(6) rules relating to registration of doctors, nurses and other personnel 
employed in hospitals should be suitably amended to provide a condition 
against evangelistic activities during professional service; and (7) 
circulation of literature meant for religious propaganda without approval 
of the State Government should be prohibited.— 


The Report which was accompanied by two volumes of documentation 
raised a storm in missionary circles in India and abroad. The missions 
were in no position to dispute the facts presented or contest the 
conclusions arrived at by the Enquiry Committee. All they could do was to 
raise the spectre of ‘Hindu communalism’ and warn against the ‘danger of 
Hindu Raj’. It was said that “members of Hindu Mahasabha had begun to 
wield considerable influence” in the Government of Madhya Pradesh and 
that “their aim was to make one Hindu state out of India.”— 


The fact of missions in India seeking financial and other aids from 
missions abroad was equated with the Government of India seeking 
“foreign technical knowledge and the assistance of friends from many 
European and American countries in the development of the nation¬ 
building activities.” The replacement of foreign missionaries was found 


impossible as the Government of India had “found impossible to replace 
foreign personnel with Indian personnel.”— It was promised that “in the 
not distant future the coming of missionaries from abroad into India will 
be matched by the going out of Indian missionaries from this country.”— 
The logic was quite in keeping with the way the Church in India had come 
to look at itself. 


If this self-image of the Church as a State within the State looked 
pretentious to some people, it could be accounted for only by their 
tendency towards totalitarianism. ‘There is a striking contrast,’ wrote a 
leading theologian, M. M. Thomas, “between the democratic idea of the 
State and the totalitarian idea of the State which is both implicit and 
explicit in the Recommendations of the Niyogi Report... The philosophy of 
State underlying the Report and advocated by it is unashamedly 
totalitarian. It therefore is a matter of vital concern to every one in this 
country whether Christian or non-Christian who believes in democracy.”— 
The test of a state being democratic was that it recognised and honoured 
“supranational loyalties.” In support of his proposition Dr. Thomas quoted 
Mahatma Gandhi who had “recognized truth and non-violence as realities 
demanding loyalty above the nation,” and President Sockamo of Indonesia 
who had “stated that Nationalism should be limited by Humanism.”— 
Thus servility to foreign financiers and controllers of missions in India 
became transformed into loyalty to universal moral values! “In deploring 
this,” concluded Dr. Thomas, “and characterising supranationalism as 
‘extraterritoriality’, the Niyogi Report has shown the kinship of its 
ideology with totalitarian Facism.”— 


The missions also tried to rally support from some persons of public 
standing in India. Dr. Hare Krishna Mahtab, then Governor of Bombay, 
obliged them readily. “We should not think,” he said, “of closing our doors 
to anyone. If we think in terms of exclusiveness, we shall not make any 
progress.”— But they found a h-rd nut in C. Rajagopalachari. “It seems,” 
he wrote to a foreign missionary, “you expect from me an expression of 


my views on the specific question: What type of missionary workers are 
wanted in India, rather than on the question whether any missionary 
workers should come at all to India? I shall respectfully speak my opinion 
on the latter point. I feel it is not really possible on the ground of logic or 
on the evidence of miracles to hold that amongst the religions known as- 
Hinduism, Buddhism, Islam, and Christianity, anyone is nearer the truth 
than any other. You will permit me to object to the exclusive claims for 
Truth made on behalf of any one of these faiths. If this first point is 
granted, the only justification for missionary work is proselytism. But is it 
good on the whole for men and women to change from one religion to 
another? I think it is not desirable to make any effort at proselytism. I feel 
that such efforts undermine the present faith of the people, which is good 
enough for promoting right conduct in them and to deter them from sin. 
They tend to destroy family and social harmony, which is not a good thing 
to do.”^ 


Rajagopalachari was repeating the views expressed very often and very 
forcefully by Mahatma Gandhi. But the men who ran the Government in 
New Delhi could not afford to defend the Father of the Nation. They had 
to defend their Secularism and Democracy which had come under shadow 
in the powerful Christian press in India and abroad. They found the 
recommendations of the Niyogi Report “in discordance with the 
fundamental rights of the Constitution” and “the Report was sheived.”— 


The Government of India’s stand vis-a-vis the Report became clear 
within two months after its publication. In September 1956, “a question 
was raised in the Parliament about an alleged increase in the anti-Indian 
activities on the part of foreign Christian missionaries.” The Minister of 
State for Home Affairs, B. N. Datar, came promptly to their defence. 
“There is no factual basis,” he said, “for the assumption made in the 
question, according to the information available with the Government of 
India.” At the same time he affirmed that “no steps would be taken to 
check the work of foreign missionaries.”— 


A Bill was introduced in the Parliament in 1960 for protecting 
Scheduled Castes and Tribes “from change of religion forced on them on 
grounds other than religious convictions.” It was also thrown out because 
of resistance from the ruling party. “It was rejected,” records Plattner, 
“after Mr. Datar declared in no uncertain terms that it was unconstitutional 
and that there were no mass conversions as alleged by the mover.” The 
Minister went much further. “They were carrying on,” he said, “Christ’s 
mission by placing themselves at the service of mankind and such work 
was one of their greatest contributions to the world.” He credited the 
missionaries with “the uplift of a large number of downtrodden people 
through their schools and social work.”— It may be mentioned in 
anticipation that the same fate will meet the Freedom of Religion Bill 
which O. P. Tyagi will try to introduce in Parliament during the Janata 
Party regime. 


“This attitude of Nehru and his government,” concluded Plattner, “has 
inspired the Christians with confidence in the Indian Constitution.”— 
Nehru had “remained true to his British upbringing.”— Small wonder that 
the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of India became quite optimistic about 
the future. “With the Indian Hierarchy well established,” it proclaimed in 
September 1960, “and the recruitment of the clergy fairly assured, it may 
be said that the Church in India has reached its maturity and has achieved 
the first part of its missionary programme. The time seems to have come to 
face squarely the Church’s next and more formidable duty: the conversion 
of the masses of India.”— 


There were good grounds for this optimism. Conversions to 
Christianity were on the increase as was soon indicated by the Census for 
1971. “In India as a whole,” wrote a Christian historian, “the Christian 
population increased by 64.9% between 1951 and 1971. This may be 
compared with a general population increase of 51.7% during the same 


period. In North East India the Christian population increased by 171.1% 
during the same period, compared with a general population growth in that 
region of 116.5%. Even these figures do not give the full picture because in 
1971, 74.7% of the total North East India population was in Assam where 
the growth of the Christian community is the lowest. In the 196171 decade 
alone the growth of the Christian community in states and territories other 
than Assam was as follows: 


Percentage 
State Growth of 
Christians 


Percentage Growth of 
General Population 


Nagaland 76.29% 39.88% 

Meghalaya 75.43% 31.55% 

Manipur 83.66% 37.33% 

Tripura 56.52% 36.28% 


In the 1951-1971 period, the Christian growth in Nagaland was 
251.6% and in Tripura 298.6%... According to the Census of 1901 
Christians in the North East constituted 1.23% of the whole, by 1951 the 
proportion was 7.8% and in 1971, 12.5%. North East India now had 39.8% 
of the non-southern Christian population.”— 


A major part of this rich harvest in this region had been reaped by the 
Catholic Church. “Without question,” continued the historian, “the most 
important post-war development has been the rapid expansion of the 
Roman Catholic Church. At the beginning of the war there were but 
50,000 Catholics in the region; in 1977 there were 369,681. In part this 
was due to an extraordinary expenditure of resources both in terms of 
money and missionary personnel, including personnel brought in from 


other parts of India. But it was due also to the removal after independence 
of the restrictions the British had placed upon Catholic missions.”— 


This spate of conversions could be traced directly to the expansion of 
Catholic education. “The growth of Catholic educational programme in the 
North East,” noted the historian, “was certainly phenomenal. While in 
1935 they were operating 299 primary schools, 9 middle and high schools, 
and 2 colleges, by 1951 the numbers had increased to 591, 65 and 2 
respectively. By 1977 there were 744 primary schools, 63 middle and high 
schools (a slight decrease) and 4 colleges... Altogether there were 811 
educational institutions with 79, 891 students.”— 


The region reflected the expansion of Catholic education in the country 
as a whole. “The dawn of independence,” wrote the Catholic educationist, 
T. A. Mathias, in 1971, “is a landmark in the development of Christian 
educational work in this country. Since 1947 there has been a fantastic 
expansion in the number of Christian institutions, chiefly among the 
Roman Catholics. Colleges have gone up from 42 to 114 and secondary 
schools from 500 to 1,200. The Catholic Directory, 1969, gives fairly 
accurate statistics for Catholic educational work. There are now 6000 
elementary schools, 1200 secondary schools, 114 colleges, and 80 
specialised institutions.”— 


The Catholic Directory for 1984 reported a still more phenomenal 
growth. The number of kindergarten (elementary schools) in 1981 had 
reached 2,550, the number of primary schools 6,183 and the number of 
secondary schools 2,986. The Directory does not give the number of 
colleges and specialised institutions, though it tells us that 1,141,787 
students were studying in Catholic colleges and 35,519 in institutes for 
other studies. 


The Catholic educational network, however, represents only a part of 
the Catholic apparatus, though it is the most important from the missionary 
point of view. It alienates Hindu young men and women from their 
ancestral culture or at least neutralises them against missionary inroads if it 
does not incline them positively towards the promotion of Christianity. 
Schools at the lower levels and in rural and tribal areas win converts 
directly by forgoing tuition fees, providing free textbooks and stationery 
etc., housing students freely in hostels, and giving free meals to day 
scholars. Colleges provide many recruits to the higher echelons in 
government services besides executives in business houses. Most of them 
look quite favourably at the ‘humanitarian services which Hindus have 
neglected’. Big sums flow into the coffers of the Catholic missions from 
bribes given by neo-rich parents looking forward to their children speaking 
English in the ‘proper accent’. Convent educated girls are in great demand 
in the Hindu marriage market. 


The other part of the apparatus comprises what are known as medical, 
social, and humanitarian service agencies. In 1984 the Catholic missions 
maintained 615 hospitals, 1529 dispensaries, 221 leprosoria, 309 homes 
for the aged and the handicapped, 1,233 orphanages and 1,271 centres for 
training people in various crafts and skills. That is also where work of 
conversion is carried on openly. These services are free or very cheap for 
those who show readiness to embrace ‘the only true faith’. For others, they 
are quite expensive, particularly the hospitals furnished with imported 
equipment of the latest kind. 


This apparatus was spread in 1984 over 17, 288 mission stations and 
manned by 49, 956 religious women, 4, 993 religious priests and 2, 801 
religious men other than priests. The missionary personnel was grouped in 
167 congregations of sisters, 39 congregations of priests and 19 
congregations of brothers. The sisters functioned from more than 4000 
houses maintained in different parts of the country by a personnel of more 
than 56,000. Corresponding figures for priests came to more than 700 
houses and a personnel of nearly 14,000, and for brothers it was nearly 200 



houses with a personnel of more than 2,000. Besides, there were 14 secular 
institutes with nearly 30 houses and a personnel of nearly 400. A majority 
of these congregations had their headquarters abroad - 97 of sisters, 25 of 
priests, 8 of brothers. Though they recruited their personnel for the most 
part from India, their control was completely in the hands of 
establishments abroad. As many as 26, 541 catechists were in the field for 
netting new birds and making them cram the Catholic creed. 


There was a corresponding expansion of what is called the Catholic 
Hierarchy which the Pope had taken over, partly from the Portuguese, in 
1886. The Hierarchy had grown apace till. 1947 when it had 10 
Archdioceses and 35 Dioceses. By 1984, a period of only 37 years, the 
number of Archdioceses had almost doubled to 19 and that of Dioceses 
more than trebled to 110. A record increase of 18 Dioceses in a single year 
took place in 1977 when the Janata Party was in power. Six of these were 
created in the sensitive areas of Madhya Pradesh where the State 
Government had stalled expansion of the Hierarchy after the Niyogi 
Committee had laid bare the missionary mischief in 1956. The 
Government of Madhya Pradesh in 1977, it may be noted, was dominated 
by the erstwhile Jana Sangh component of the Janata Party.— 


The Hierarchy presided over 5,159 parishes and quasiparishes grouped 
in 110 ecclesiastical territories and manned by 7, 058 diocesan priests. The 
Catholic Directory gives the Latin names of Bulls and Decrees proclaimed 
by the Pope while creating new Dioceses and Archdioceses and appointing 
Bishops and Archbishops on advice from his Nuncio in New Delhi. 
Neither the Government of India nor any State Government has ever been 
consulted in the matter. In 1974, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi had started 
negotiations for a Pre-Notification treaty with the Vatican but the Pope had 
stalled them on one excuse or the other. The Janata Party dropped even the 
negotiations when it came to power in 1977. The Pope was thus free to 
continue carving out a State within the State. 


In addition, the Catholic apparatus controlled some 150 printing 
presses and more than 200 periodicals in English and Indian languages. 
Around 350 seminaries of all sorts were busy training missionaries, priests 
and other specialised functionaries for its missions. The number of 
students in these seminaries was 2,125 in 1984. In the same year, 3, 528 
persons turned out by these seminaries were candidates for religious 
priesthood.— 


We have not been able to obtain and analyse corresponding data 
regarding the expansion of the Protestant missions and churches. They 
stopped publishing consolidated figures quite some time ago. It can., 
however, be safely assumed that there has been a considerable expansion 
of the Protestant apparatus as well, though it might not have been as 
phenomenal as the Catholic. Missions from or financed by the U.S.A. and 
West Germany, we are told, have become particularly prosperous and are 
active over wider fields. 


The cost of maintaining and expanding this huge missionary apparatus. 
Catholic and Protestant, should be considerable, though it is kept a closely 
guarded secret by the missions and churches concerned. The budgets for 
maintaining missions and church hierarchies are never made public. Not 
even a hint is available in Christian publications regarding how much 
money is received and from where. The Christian community in India is 
too poor to maintain this colossal and expensive edifice, not to speak of 
financing its widespread and multifarious operations. The logical 
conclusion that the apparatus is financed almost entirely from abroad, is 
confirmed by the budgets published by controllers of missions in Europe 
and America, as also by such figures of foreign remittances to Christian 
organisations as are made known by the Government of India from time to 
time. “One billion dollars,” says a recent and reliable report, “that is how 
much American Protestant Christian organisations spent last year [1988] 
trying to gain conversions from other religions, and the Catholic Church 
spent an equal amount. According to official Indian government reports 


US dollars 165 mill ions is sent to Christian missions in India each year.”— 
This represents a staggering increase on the amount of foreign remittances 
noted by the Niyogi Committee for the period from January 1950 to June 
1954.^ 


Thus it can be maintained no longer that the Portuguese and British 
imperialists alone were responsible for the expansion of Christianity in 
India. The native Indian rulers have proved far more helpful to the 
Christian missions. They have provided constitutional protection to 
Christian propaganda. They have made it possible for the missions to enter 
into areas from where the British had kept them out. What is most 
important, in the years since independence Christianity has come to 
acquire a prestige which it had enjoyed never before in this country. 


It cannot be said that the country has not faced problems created by 
Christian missions. Converts to Christianity in the North East and Central 
India have constantly evinced separatist and secessionist tendencies. The 
Government of India has recognised the mischief potential of Christian 
missions by expelling from the country some well known missionaries 
who were found fomenting political unrest and promoting violence. But 
the larger lesson that Christian missions in general mean no good and 
much mischief to the country and its culture, has yet to be learnt. 


Even before independence, some Christian missionaries had ganged up 
with the Muslim Eeague and floated the scheme of a sovereign Christian 
State composed of tribal areas in the North East and Central India. The 
two enclaves were to be linked together by a corridor passing through 
Bihar and Bengal. The Nizam of Hyderabad was expected to provide 
another corridor towards Christian populations in the Madras Presidency 
(Now Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu) and the princely states of 
Travancore and Cochin (now Kerala). It was hoped that, in due course, 
these Christian populations would gravitate towards the sovereign 


Christian State and provide access to the Christian world outside via the 
Coromandal and Malabar coasts. The movement for an independent 
Travancore had drawn enthusiastic support from the local Christians. 
Cochin was expected to follow suit. 


After independence, the hand of Christian missions has been manifest 
in violent secessionist uprisings in Nagaland, Mizoram, Manipur and 
Tripura. Christian missions in these areas have not been loathe to join 
hands with the Communists who have pursued the same aim in 
cooperation with Red China. It has cost India vast sums of money for 
meeting the menace militarily. Thousands of lives have been lost. And the 
fires lighted by the Christian missionaries are still smouldering under the 
surface in spite of concessions made in the shape of several Christian 
majority States. 


Meanwhile, the Christian-sponsored agitation for a separate State of 
Jharkhand has been gaining strength. ‘A secret report of Intelligence 
Bureau,’ according to the Indian Express of January 13, 1989, “has 
claimed that some voluntary organisations who received foreign 
contributions had been ‘covertly’ helping the Jharkhand movement for a 
separate state comprising 21 districts of Bihar, West Bengal and Orissa. 
The organisations named by the report are: The Willian Carey Study and 
Research Centre (WCSRC), the Christian Institution for Study of Religion 
and Science (CISRC), the Liberal Association for the Movement of People 
(LAMP), the Gana Unnayan Parishad (GUP), and the Indian People’s 
Welfare Society (IPWS). The Forum for the Concerned Rural journalists 
(FCRJ) with its registered office at Jhargram, was also said to be a 
recipient of subsidy from WCSRC and CISRC.” 


Some of the foreign organisations from which finances flow to these 
“voluntary organisations” in India have also been named. “According to 
the report GUP, WCSRC etc., had been getting foreign contributions from 



several foreign agencies including ‘EZE, ECCO and AGKED (West 
Germany), NAVIB Eoundation (Netherlands). Swedish International 
Development Agency (SIDA), World Council of Churches (Geneva) and 
Bread for the World’ 


The “voluntary organisations” know how to get around the laws of the 
land for serving their subterranean purposes. “These organisations, the 
report said, had their own techniques for circumventing Government 
regulations. The organisations receiving foreign contributions registered 
themselves with the Central Government, maintained an account of 
foreign contributions and kept records about the purpose and manner of 
utilisation of funds. But, while the annual returns of these organisations to 
the Reserve Bank of India showed that the money was spent on cultural, 
economic, educational, religious and social programmes, in reality, the 
report claimed, much less amount than that claimed in the returns was 
actually spent on the programmes, with the rest being either 
‘misappropriated’ or ‘clandestinely donated to designing organisations and 
elements to further their ulterior objectives’.” 


They also play hide and seek with the law enforcement agencies of the 
Government,. “They operate in cooperation with many other voluntary 
organisations. If one particular organisation comes to adverse notice it 
floats some other cover, and front organisations maintain close liason with 
organisations which have not come under the cloud. GUP and IPWS had 
thus been floated by the WCRSC and EAMP... WCSRC had been 
reportedly giving monetary help to the Jharkhand Coordination 
Committee, a common front with 49 cultural and political groups and mass 
organisations formed to give a new pitch to the Jharkhand movement... 
The organisation, the report said, encouraged ‘struggles of working people, 
women, tribals, dalits, oppressed and children’ of the Jharkhand region 
‘inciting’ the organisations for a separate Jharkhand state.” 



Such a report in a leading national daily called for some comments 
from leaders of the nation, if not questions in Parliament. But it was not 
even noticed, least of all by those who pass as Hindu leaders, not to speak 
of politicians who swear by Secularism. The only response it elicited was 
some letters of protest from the functionaries of Christian organisations. In 
the letters to-the-editor column of the daily they denounced the report as 
concocted. The editor maintained that the report emanated from reliable 
and responsible quarters. That was the end of the matter. The Christian 
missions in India had not a worry in the world except that caused by their 
own theological quibbles. 

Footnotes: 

- Felix Alfred Plattner, op. cit., p. 6. Emphasis added. 

- Ibid., p. 10. 

- K. M. Panikkar, Asia and Western Dominance, London, 1953, p. 
15. 


^Ibid.,^.AU. 

^ Ibid.,V. ASS. 

- Felix Alfred Plattner, op. cit., p. 14. 

- Ibid., pp. 6-7. 

- Quoted in Ibid., p. 7. There is no record that Pandit Nehru ever 
gave any thought to the ‘different plane’ or ‘other ways’ of dealing 
with ‘those evils’. It remained his life-long privilege “to talk vaguely 
and generally about things in general”, as he himself had said. His 
patent way of showing disapproval was to talk of a ‘different plane’ 
and ‘other ways’. Those who understood his language took the hint 
and fell in line. 

- Christians were unhappy with Dr. Katju because in April 1953 
he had made a statement in Parliament that “for a long time he had 


been in possession of information about questionable proselytising 
activities of missionaries in Central India” {Ibid., p. 10). 


^Ibid.,p. 12 
— Ibid., p. 11. 

— Report of the Christian Missionary Activities Enquiry 
Committee, Madhya Pradesh (known and henceforward referred to as 
the Niyogi Committee Report), Nagpur, 1956, Part I, p. 9. 

— Ibid., p. 7. 

^Ibid.,p. 10. 

— Ibid., p. 50. 


^ Ibid., ^.22. 

— Ibid., p. 169. 
^Ibid.,p.4. 

— Ibid., p. 3. 

— Ibid., p. 5. 

^Ibid. 

— Ibid., Part II, Chapter II. 
^ Ibid., p. 49. 

— Ibid., pp. 50-51. 

— Ibid., Chapter III. 
^Ibid., pp. 59-60. 


— World Christian Council. 


— International missionary Council. 

— Ibid., p. 54. Italics in source. 
^Ibid.,^.9A. 

— Ibid., Part Ill, Chapter Ill, pp. 95-129. 
^Ibid.,V.99. 

^Ibid.,^. 102 . 

^Ibid.,^. 100. 

^Ibid.,^. 102 . 

^ Ibid., ^.96. 

^Ibid.,p. 103. 

^Ibid.,p. 105. 

^Ibid.,p. 113. 

^Ibid.,p. 115. 

— Ibid., p. 116. 

^Ibid., pp. 118-122. 

^Ibid.,p. 119. 

^Ibid.,p. 121 . 

^Ibid., pp. 122-123. 


^Ibid.,p. 123. 

^Ibid., pp. 123-124. 

^Ibid.,p. 125. 

— Ibid., p. 126. 

^Ibid.,^. 132. 

— Ibid. 

^Ibid.,^. 144. 

^Ibid.,^. 145-148. 

^Ibid., pp. 148-149. 

^Ibid.,^. 149. 

^Ibid., pp. 149-150. 

^Ibid., pp. 151-152. 

— Ibid., pp. 163-64. 

— Felix Alfred Plattner, op. cit., p. 10. 

— The National Christian Council Review, October 1956, p. 403. 
^Ibid.,V.A05. 

^ Ibid., ^.395. 

^Ibid., pp. 395-96. 

^Ibid., pp. 396-97. 


— Ibid., pp. 397. 

— Ibid., December 1956, p. 490. 

— Felix Alfred Plattner, op. cit., p. 11. 
^Ibid.,^.l. 

— Ibid., pp. 7-8. 

^//7/r/.,p.8. 


— Ibid., p. 9. 

^-^Ibid.,p. 134. 

— F. S. Downs, Christianity in North East India: Historical 
Perspectives, Gauhati, 1983, pp. 3-4. 

^-^Ibid., pp. 151-52. 

— Ibid., p. 154. 

— Quoted in Ibid., p. 153. 

— I tried to find out from various bigwigs of the then Janata Party 
including the then Prime Minister Morarji Desai, the reason for this 
sudden spurt. 1 drew a blank. No one was even aware that this had 
happened. The Catholic Church alone knows and can reveal the 
secret. 

— For full details. See Sita Ram Goel, Papacy: Its Doctrine and 
History, New Delhi. 1986. It is a Voice of India publication. 

— ‘The Big Business of Evangelisation’, //mJMAm Today, 
February 1989. As always, this article too is based on wide-ranging 
research. 


See page 338 in this chapter. 



18 

Dethroning Monotheism 


Another dialogue between Hinduism and Christianity commenced with 
the publication of Shri Ram Swarup’s magnum opus, The Word As 
Revelation: Names of Gods, in September 1980. It is still continuing. 


The dialogue which Raja Ram Mohun Roy had started in the third 
decade of the nineteenth century stopped abruptly with the passing away 
of Mahatma Gandhi in January 1948. The Hindu leadership or what passed 
for it in post-independence India was neither equipped for nor interested in 
the battle for men’s minds. It believed in ‘organising’ the Hindus without 
bothering about what they carried inside their heads. It neither knew nor 
cared to know what Hinduism stood for. Its history of India began with the 
advent of the Islamic invaders. The spiritual traditions, ways of worship, 
scriptures and thought systems of pre-Islamic India were beyond its mental 
horizon. 


The Christian missions, as we have seen, had never had it so good. 
Unchallenged ideologically, they broke out of the tight comer in which 
Mahatma Gandhi had put them and resumed the monologue which had 
characterised them in the pre-dialogue period. A number of mission 
strategies were dressed up as ‘theologies in the Indian context’. The core 
of the Christian dogma remained intact, namely, that Jesus Christ was the 
only saviour. The language of presenting the dogma, however, underwent 
what looked like a radical change to the unwary Hindus, particularly those 
in search of a ‘synthesis of all faiths’. 



In the days of old, the missions had denounced Hinduism as devil- 
worship and made it their business to save the Hindus from the everlasting 
fire of hell. Now they abandoned that straight-forward stance. In the new 
language that was adopted, Hinduism was made a beneficiary of the 
Cosmic Revelation that had preceded Jehovah’s Covenant with Moses. 
Hinduism was also credited with an unceasing quest for the ‘True One 
God’. The business of the missions was to direct that quest towards Christ 
who was ‘hidden in Hinduism’ and thereby make them co-sharers in the 
final Covenant which Jesus had scaled with his blood. That was the 
Theology of Fulfilment. A number of learned treatises were turned out on 
the subject. The labour invested was perhaps praise-worthy. The purpose, 
however, was deliberately dishonest. 


In the days of old, Hindu culture like Hindu religion was a creation of 
the devil. It had to be scrapped and the stage swept clean for the culture of 
Christianity to take over. In the new language, Hindu culture was credited 
with great creations in philosophy, literature, art, architecture, music, 
painting and the rest. There was reservation only at one point. This culture, 
it was said, had stopped short of reaching the crest because its spiritual 
perceptions were deficient, even defective. It could surge forward on its 
aborted journey only by becoming a willing vehicle for ‘Christian truths’. 
That was the Theology of Inculturation or Indigenisation. It created 
another lot of literature. The missions, however, did not stop at the 
theoretical proposition. They demonstrated practically how Hindu culture 
should serve Jesus. Christ. A chain of Christian Ashrams sprang up all 
over the country. A number of Christian missionaries started masquerading 
as Hindu sannyasins, wearing the ochre robe, eating vegetarian food, 
sleeping on the floor and worshipping with the accoutrements of Hindu 
pUjA. The sacrifice they made of comforts in the mission stations and 
monasteries was perhaps admirable. The purpose of the exercise, however, 
was perfidious. 


The controllers of the missions were not exactly happy when they 
found that Communism was proving more attractive than Christianity for 



some of the missionaries. Marxism was in the air and it was difficult to 
dissuade some theologians and field workers from seeing a social 
revolutionary in Jesus. So the controllers did what they thought to be the 
next best thing. They encouraged the hot-heads to hammer out another 
theology, complete with class struggle and the rest, and hurl it against the 
‘oppressive social system sanctioned by Hinduism’. It became the business 
of the Christian missions to help the ‘have-nots of Hindu society’ rise in 
revolt against their ‘oppressors’. Hindu society was found to be brimful of 
caste discrimination, class coercion, degradation of women, neglect of 
children, untouchability, bonded labour, and so on. That was the Theology 
of Liberation. It also produced some literature. Malcontents from among 
the Hindus were hired to lend their names as authors. Never mind if the 
pamphlets were poorly written and badly printed. The pretence that they 
came from the ‘deprived and the down-trodden section of Hindu society’ 
had to be maintained. 


The Christian press presented the quibbles among these competing 
theologies as if momentous matters were being discussed. Hindus were left 
with the impression that the house of Christianity stood divided from 
within. The controllers of the missions, however, had everything under 
control. They were experimenting with various strategies in order to find 
out which was likely to yield the best results in the long run. In any case, 
different strategies could be employed simultaneously by different flanks 
of the missionary phalanx. Each Hindu who came in contact with them 
could be served with the theology which suited his or her taste. 


What helped the Christian missions a good deal from the outside was 
the rise of Nehruvian Secularism as India’s state policy as well as a raging 
fashion among India’s intellectual elite. The knowledgeable among the 
missionaries were surprised and somewhat amused. They knew that 
Secularism had risen in the West as the deadliest enemy of Christian 
dogmas and that it had deprived the churches of their stranglehold on state 
power. In India, however. Secularism was providing a smokescreen behind 
which Christianity could steal a march. Politicians of all parties including 



parties which passed as Hindu, leading journalists and academicians, and 
scribes of all sorts saw the spectre of ‘Hindu communalism’ whenever 
someone raised a voice, howsoever feeble and apologetic, about the 
foreign finances and subversive activities of the Christian missions. An 
informed critique of Christianity invited angry snarls from the same 
quarters. The missions did not feel quite comfortable with the guardians of 
India’s Secularism; there were too many goddamned Communists, 
Royists, Socialists and Leftists of all sorts in that crowd. But that was a 
problem to be faced in the long run. In the short run, the deep hostility 
which Secularism in India entertained for Hinduism could be turned to 
Christianity’s advantage. At the same time, Hindus could be frightened 
into entering a ‘united front of all religions against the forces of Godless 
materialism’. 


Mahatma Gandhi’s sarva-dharma-sambhAva was providing grist to the 
same mill. The old man had tried to cure Christianity of its exclusiveness 
and sense of superiority. That was the substance of his objection to 
proselytisation. He had advised Christians in general and Christian 
missionaries in particular to be busy with their own moral and spiritual 
improvement rather than with the salvation of Hindus. In his own days, 
Christian theologians had resented his doctrine of sarva-dharma- 
samabhAva and repudiated it as destructive of the very basis of 
Christianity. But now that the doctrine had been turned into a mindless 
slogan by the Mahatma’s own disciples and handed over to the watchdogs 
of Nehruvian Secularism as another bark against Hinduism, it was 
safeguarding Christianity’s right to multiply its missions. The doubting 
Thomases among the Hindus could be told that Bapu stood for equality of 
all religions and their opportunity to flourish without let or hindrance. 


This was the atmosphere in which Ram Swamp’s book, mentioned at 
the beginning of this chapter, came out of the press. He had invested in it 
many years of meditation and reflection. Its subject was neither 
Christianity, nor its missions. 



On the contrary, it was an attempt at understanding the spiritual 
consciousness which had manifested itself in a multiplicity of Gods, not 
only in India but in many other lands. Christianity came in for a brief 
examination when he evaluated Monotheism from the standpoint of the 
spiritual vision which has sustained religious pluralism among the Hindus 
down to the present day. But the premises from which he would 
subsequently develop his deeper critique of Christianity became clear in 
this book. 


Before we take up Ram Swarup’s critique of Christianity in some 
detail, it would be helpful if we survey briefly the history of how 
Monotheism came to India and how it acquired the prestige it enjoys at 
present in the eyes of the dominant and vocal section of the Hindu 
intelligentsia. It is not rarely that one meets Hindu thinkers who regard 
Monotheism as a distinct and major contribution made to religious thought 
by Christianity and Islam. Many Hindu thinkers disown as relics from a 
primitive past the multiplicity of Gods for which Hinduism is well known; 
they also denounce idol worship round which Hinduism has remained 
centred down the ages. Even those Hindu thinkers who do not disown the 
Hindu pantheon, consign it to an inferior status vis-a-vis the Great God 
who is ‘One without a second’; if they defend idol worship, they do so 
only as a device meant for the spiritually underdeveloped’ seekers who are 
supposed to be incapable of viewing God without the aid of visible forms. 


Monotheism was unknown to Hinduism in ancient times, either as a 
religious doctrine or as a philosophical concept, not to speak of as a 
theology. The notion of the ‘True One God’ as opposed to ‘False Many 
Gods’ was unknown to the Vedas, the Upanishads, the Buddhist and Jain 
Shastras, the Epics and the Puranas, and the six systems of Hindu 
philosophy. “Indian spirituality,” writes Ram Swarup, ‘proclaimed that the 
true Godhead was beyond number and count; that it had many 
manifestations which did not exclude or repel each other but included each 



other, and went together in friendship; that it was approached in different 
ways and through many symbols; that it resided in the hearts of its 
devotees. Here there were no chosen people, no exclusive prophethoods, 
no privileged churches and fraternities and ummas. The message was 
subversive of all religions based on exclusive claims.”- This spirituality 
was summed up in the Vedic mantra. They hail It as Indra, as Mitra, as 
Varuna, as Agni, and as that divine and noble-winged GarutmAn. Truth (or 
Reality) is one; the wise ones speak of it in various ways, whether as Agni, 
or as Yama, or as MatarishvAn.- 


Monotheism came to this country for the first time as the war-cry of 
Islamic invaders who marched in with the Quran in one hand and the 
sword in the other. It proclaimed that there was no God but Allah- and that 
Muhammad was the Prophet of Allah. It claimed that Allah had completed 
his Revelation in the Quran and that Muslims who possessed that Book 
were the Chosen People. It invoked a theology which called upon the 
believers to convert or kill the infidels, particularly the idolaters, capture 
their women and children and sell them into slavery and concubinage all 
over the world, slaughter their sages and saints and priests, break or at 
least desecrate their idols, destroy or convert into mosques their places of 
worship, plunder their properties, occupy their lands, and heap 
humiliations on such of them as cannot be converted or killed either due to 
their capacity for fighting back or the need of the conquerors for slave 
labour. The enormities which the votaries of Islamic Monotheism practised 
on a vast scale and for a long time vis-a-vis Hindu religion, culture and 
society, were unheard of by Hindus in the whole of their hoary history. 
Muslim theologians, sufis and historians who witnessed or read or heard of 
these doings hailed the doers as soldiers of Allah and heroes of Islam. 
They thanked Allah and the Prophet who had declared a permanent war on 
the infidels and bestowed their progeny and properties on the believers. 
They quoted chapter and verse from the Quran and the Sunnah of the 
Prophet in order to prove that what was being done to Hindus was fully in 
keeping with the highest teachings of Islam. 


The mainstream of Hinduism drew the inescapable conclusion that 
Islam was not much more than glorified gangsterism, and closed its doors 
to any willing contact with the hated creed and its vicious votaries. There 
was, however, a somewhat different response from some marginal sections 
of Hindu society. We need not go into the objective and subjective factors 
which facilitated this response. The result was the same in every case. The 
doings of Islam were divorced from its doctrine and viewed as aberrations 
due to human failing. Its Monotheism was abstracted and absorbed as the 
doctrine of One God as against Many Gods. Finally, Islam was presented 
as good a religion as Hinduism. The saints who performed this feat are 
now known as the pioneers of the ‘Nirguna school of Bhakti’. Most of 
them show symptoms of the deep inroad which Monotheism had made 
into their psyche. 


In the prevalent lore of present-day Hindu scholarship, the Nirguna 
school of Bhakti has become a ‘progressive movement of social protest’ 
inspired by the message of human equality and brotherhood supposed to 
have been brought in by Islam. There are several other myths which, 
joined together, make this school sound like a radical, even a revolutionary 
departure from the mainstream of Hinduism. A study of the literature 
produced by this school, however, provides no evidence that its saints said 
anything which had not been said long ago and in a loftier language by the 
ancient sages of Sanatana Dharma, or which was not being said by the 
other and contemporary school of Bhakti. By and large, the Nirguna 
school, like the other school of Bhakti, was wedded to Vaishnavism and 
drew upon the Epics and the Puranas, particularly the Bhagavata, for its 
devotional stories and songs. What made the Nirguna school sound 
different in its historical setting was the stress which most of its saints laid 
on the ‘True One God {sacchA M/z/^j’and the contempt they poured on 
idol worship (pAthar-pUjA). The Shaktas who worshipped the Great 
Mother were subjected to virulent attacks in the literature of this school. 
Allah of the Quran who brooked no partners, particularly of the female 
gender, and permitted no idol worship, had won a victory without his 
victims knowing it. 



Some Jain monks succumbed to Monotheism in their own way. 
Jainism had no God who could be made exclusive, nor Gods and 
Goddesses who could be spurned. But it had its Tirthankaras whose idols 
were worshipped in its temples. There is evidence that the Sthanakavasi 
sect of the Svetambara school of Jainism renounced idol worship and 
turned its back on temples under the influence of Islam. 


Islamic invasion was defeated in due course and Muslim rule 
disappeared from the greater part of the Hindu homeland. But Monotheism 
retained the prestige it had acquired during the days of Muslim dominance. 
This happened largely because medieval Hindu thinkers had refused or 
failed to study and understand Islamic Monotheism in all its ramifications 
and from its own sources. 


Many Hindu writers and poets of the medieval period have left for 
posterity some graphic accounts of the Muslim behaviour pattern with all 
its essential ingredients - sack of cities and villages and massacre of whole 
populations, capture of women and children, humiliation of Brahmanas, 
breaking of sacred threads, burning of scriptures, slaughter of cows, 
desecration of idols, destruction of temples or their conversion into 
mosques, plunder of properties, and so on. But what we miss altogether in 
the whole of medieval Hindu literature is an insight into the belief system 
which produced this behaviour pattern. There is not even the hint of a 
curiosity as to why Muslims were doing what they were doing. No Hindu 
acharya - there were quite a few of this class during this period - is known 
to have had a close look at Allah or the Prophet or the Quran or the 
theology which sanctioned these dismal deeds. Islamic Monotheism was 
thus allowed to remain unchallenged as a religious doctrine. 



Ram Swamp observes, “Hindus fought Muslim invaders and locally 
established Muslim dynasties but neglected to study the religious and 
ideological motives of the invaders. Hindu learning or whatever remained 
of its earlier glory, followed the old grooves and its texts and speculations 
remained unmindful of the new phenomenon in their midst. For example, 
even as late as the fourteenth century, when Malik Kafur was attacking 
areas in the far South, in the vicinity of the seat of Sri Ramanujacharya, 
the scholarly dissertations of disciples of the great teacher show no 
awareness of the fact.”- 


He continues, “Hindus were masters of many spiritual disciplines; they 
had many Yogas and they had developed a science of inner exploration. 
There had been a continuing discussion whether the ultimate reality was 
dvaita or advaita. It would have been very interesting and instructive to 
find out if any of these savants of Yoga ever met, on their inner journey, a 
Quranic being Allah (or its original, Jehovah of the Bible) who is jealous 
of other Gods, who claims sole sovereignty and yet whom no one knows 
except through a pet go-between, who uses the latter’s mouth to publish 
his decrees, who proclaims crusades and jihAd, who teaches to kill the 
unbelievers and destroy their temples and shrines and levy tribute on them 
and to convert them into hewers of wood and drawers of water.”- 


Monotheism which had survived the defeat of Islamic invasion was 
reinforced by Christianity which appeared on the Indian scene along with 
European Imperialism. Christian Monotheism was no different from that 
of Islam; both of them shared a common source in the Bible. Nor had 
Christian Monotheism lagged behind its Islamic variation in committing 
atrocities on a large scale, for a long time, and in many lands; in fact, Islam 
had followed in many respects the precedents set by Christianity. But in 
the Indian context, Christian Monotheism had an advantage over that of 
Islam. Hindus had no opportunity to see the fierce face of Christianity 
except in the small Portuguese and French enclaves for a short time. By 
the time Christianity was active in India on any scale, it had suffered a 


steep decline in the estimation of the dominant Western elite; the rise of 
modem science, rationalism and secularism had knocked the bottom out of 
Christian theology and deprived it of its stranglehold on the state. The 
British conquerors of India were not willing to back the Christian missions 
with state power to any great extent; the missions were not allowed to use 
their tried and tested methods for ‘saving the Hindus from hell’. 


Most Hindus felt offended when Christian missionaries used foul 
language vis-a-vis Hindu religion, culture and society and started making 
conversions. But few of them were equipped intellectually to identify the 
doctrine from which the language sprang and the attempts at conversion 
emanated. Christian missionaries were presenting themselves as 
worshippers of the ‘True One God’ and denouncing Hinduism as idolatry 
wedded to many Gods and Goddesses. Some Hindus defended their 
pantheon in the best manner they knew and continued to worship in their 
traditional temples. But others, particularly those who had benefited from 
English education, took the missionary accusation to heart and started 
ransacking their own scriptures in search of the ‘True One God’ who could 
stand shoulder to shoulder with the God of Christianity. They ended by 
disowning the multiplicity of Gods and denouncing idol worship. They 
gave out a call for purging Hinduism of its ‘polytheism’ so that Hinduism 
could be saved. That is how the Hindu reform movements started in the 
nineteenth century. 


The psychology that was at work in the reform movements is 
illustrated best by the rise of Raja Ram Mohun Roy to name and fame in a 
short time. He owed his fascination for Monotheism to his study of Islam. 
Hindus of Calcutta did not take to him kindly when he started denouncing 
polytheism and idol worship. It was only when he criticised the Christian 
doctrine of Trinity and the crude methods of Christian missionaries that the 
English educated gentry of Calcutta warmed up to him. He was hailed as a 
Hindu leader by this gentry when he discovered the ‘True One God’ in the 
Brahma of the Vedas and the Upanishads. The Brahmo Samaj he founded 



took the message to Madras, Malabar, Maharashtra. The North Western 
Provinces (now U.P.) and the Punjab. 


The Arya Samaj, founded by Maharshi Dayananda, spread 
Monotheism over a larger area and among those sections of Hindu society 
which had never known it earlier. As a result, Hindu society seemed to 
acquire self-confidence. But the logic of what had been set in motion was 
remorseless. The wheel turned full circle in the Punjab where Neo-Sikhism 
forced the lives and sayings of the Gurus into the framework of 
Monotheism borrowed bodily and wholesale from Islam and Christianity. 
Nothing could have been more distorted and dishonest. But the exercise 
succeeded because by this time the dominant and vocal section of Hindu 
intelligentsia had become votaries of Monotheism. This section applauded 
when the Akalis drove out the Brahmana priests from the gurudwaras after 
accusing them of having installed idols of many Gods and Goddesses in 
places meant for the worship of the ‘True One God’. Hindus who had 
retained their reverence for the idols had to collect and install them 
elsewhere when they were thrown out of the gurudwaras. Mahatma 
Gandhi protested in vain when a temple inside the Harimandir at Amritsar 
was demolished; he was told that Sikhism did not permit idol worship in 
its holy places. 


The Hindu reform movements had started with the best of intentions. 
They aspired to save Hindu society from the onslaught of Islam and 
Christianity. They also succeeded in stopping conversions. But in as much 
as they were rooted in reaction against Islam and Christianity rather than 
in a resurgence of the Hindu spiritual vision, they misfired in the long run. 
Instead of forging their own weapon of defence, they borrowed it from the 
adversary’s armoury. Small wonder that it boomranged and turned out to 
the disadvantage of the cause they had espoused. 



In disowning the multiplicity of Hindu Gods, the Hindu reform 
movements tended to disown the rich heritage of Hindu art, architecture, 
sculpture, music, dance and literature which had developed round these 
divinities and had no other raison d’etre. It was not long before they forgot 
the very purpose, namely defence of Hinduism, for which they had placed 
themselves in the vanguard of Hindu society. Worse still, the reform 
movements created an elite which looked down upon its own people and 
became progressively alienated from them in most of its perceptions. The 
wide gulf that yawns at present between the two sections of Hindu society 
is illustrated best by their respective response to the remains of Hindu 
temples destroyed by the Islamic invaders. 


It is not unoften that Hindus in the countryside chance upon remains of 
temples which lie scattered on some site and which have escaped the 
notice of the Archaeological Survey of India. Invariably, they collect these 
remains, cleanse them, install them under a tree or in an improvised 
temple, and start worshipping them. Experts from the Archaeological 
Survey who receive the report and visit the spot feel amused at the 
simplicity of these people. Sometimes the ‘heap’ consists entirely of the 
outer and decorative portions of a temple and does not contain a single 
figure of a God or Goddess, either in relief or in the round. But that does 
not make any difference to the worshippers. All they know and care for is 
that the remains came from a temple where their ancestors had worshipped 
at one time but which was subsequently destroyed by Muslims. 


The story becomes entirely different when one visits the drawing 
rooms of the Hindu elite. One sees there an array of sculptures selected 
with care from the same ruins and installed on tasteful stands. But they 
draw no reverence from those who possess them. They are only antiques 
meant for interior decoration. One is expected to contemplate them for 
their lines and forms and place them properly in the history of Indian art. 
Woe betide the visitor who becomes curious as to how these idols which 
were once housed in some temple or temples have landed in a modern 
drawing room, and how they got mutilated or defaced or deprived of 



limbs. That sort of curiosity is most likely to be met with stunned silence 
or derisive smiles. One has exhibited one’s utter lack of the aesthetic 
sense. This irrelevant digging into a dead past is simply not done in 
polished society. Or, worse still, one has betrayed one’s inclination towards 
‘Hindu communalism’, a dangerous disease in a society dedicated to 
Secularism. 


It was not that voices in defence of Gods and their worship as idols 
were not raised while the Hindu reform movements surged forward. Some 
of these voices came from the tallest figures in the saga of India’s re¬ 
awakening to her ancient heritage. Swami Vivekananda had said that if 
idol worship could produce a spiritual master like Sri Ramakrishna, all 
honour to it. Sri Aurobindo had expounded at length how the concrete 
images to which Vedic rishis addressed their hymns had emerged out of 
the deepest intuitions of spiritual consciousness. Mahatma Gandhi had 
avowed his reverence for idols and temples in unmistakable terms. But the 
voices, it seems, failed to impress the followers of these great men. The 
Ramakrishna Mission installed life-like statues of Sri Ramakrishna in the 
temples it built. Sri Aurobindo Ashram raised their own guru to the same 
status. Mahatma Gandhi has so far been spared that ‘honour’. His 
followers, however, are not known for their fondness for Hindu idols or 
temples. 


What was worse, the Ramakrishna Mission and the Sri Aurobindo 
Ashram imbibed the theology of Monotheism in another respect, namely, 
the cult of the latest and the best which will not be bettered, in the eyes of 
the Mission, Sri Ramakrishna is no more a saint who sought and verified 
in his own experience the truths of Sanatana Dharma; he has become a 
‘synthesis of all faiths’ including Islam and Christianity such as has never 
been seen in the past and will not be witnessed again in future! The 
Ashram hails Sri Aurobindo not as a great yogin and sage who explored 
and explained to the modem world the deepest insights of the Hindu 
spiritual tradition, but as the highest manifestation of the Divine in human 
history! Shades of Christ and Muhammad. 



The stalwarts of India’s re-awakening never claimed to be founders of 
new religions. Nor were they interested in Hinduism because it carried 
some exclusive message made known to mankind by some Hindu at some 
point in time. For them, Hinduism was Sanatana Dharma, that is, a 
spiritual vision valid at all times, in all places and for all people, and 
directly accessible to all seekers without the help of an historical 
intermediary. To the Buddha, a new way was suspect. He described his 
own way as that on which the Buddhas of the past had walked and the 
Buddhas of the future will walk. And that is Ram Swarup’s starting point 
in his book. He seeks the “higher meanings” of the Hindu pantheon not 
only because “it will add to our understanding of Hinduism, one of the 
most ancient and still one of the major world-religions” but also because, 
“it will throw light on the ancient Gods of many Asian and European 
countries, Gods by now so completely forgotten that we cannot study them 
directly 


“The Hindu pantheon,” observes Ram Swamp, “has changed to some 
extent but the old Gods are still active and are still understood though 
under modified names. Hindu India has a continuity with its past which 
other nations, which changed their religions at some stage, lack. It is 
known that the Hindu religion preserves many old layers and forms. 
Therefore, its study may link us not only with its own past forms but also 
with the religious consciousness, intuitions and forms that prevailed in the 
past in Europe, in Greece, in Rome, in many Scandinavian and Baltic 
countries, amongst the German and the Slavic peoples, and also in several 
countries of the Middle East. In short, the study may reveal a fundamental 
form of spiritual consciousness which is wider than its Hindu 
expression.”- This emergence of similar spiritual insights and forms over a 
vast area was not an accident. 


The earliest Hindu expression of that spiritual consciousness is found 
in the Vedas, “humanity’s oldest extant scripture.”- Three things “stand out 
prominently” when we study the Vedic pantheon. Firstly, there is “a very 
large use of concrete images... many important Gods like Surya, Agni, 
Marut take their names after natural objects.”- Secondly, “the spiritual 
consciousness of the race is expressed in terms of a plurality of Gods.”— 
Thirdly, “all Gods have multiple names.”— These are also features shared 
by the pantheons of many other peoples. 


Ram Swamp starts with the Names of Gods which, in turn, lead him to 
an inquiry into the nature of language and the higher meanings of words. 
Taking up concrete images in the Vedic pantheon, he observes, “We have 
already seen that the physical and the intellectual are not opposed to one 
another. The names of physical objects become names of ideas, names of 
psychic truths, names of Gods; sensuous truths become intellectual truths, 
become spiritual truths... In fact, this is the only way in which the sense- 
bound mind understands something of the higher knowledge... This 
reverberating, echoing and imaging takes place up and down the whole 
corridor of the mind at all levels of abstraction. Here, as we traverse the 
path, we meet physical-forms, sound-forms, vision-forms, thought-forms, 
universal-forms, all echoes of each other. We meet mantras and yantras 
and icons of various efficacies and psychic qualities. In one sense, they are 
not the light above but they are its important formations. They invoke the 
celestial and raise up the terrestrial...— There is another reason why 
images in the Vedas and the Upanishads are concrete. When the fever of 
the soul subsides, when the mind becomes calm, when the spiritual 
consciousness opens, things are no longer lifeless. In this state, things 
which have hitherto been regarded as ordinary are full of life, light and 
consciousness. In this state, ‘the earth meditates as it were; water meditates 
as it were; mountains meditate as it were.’— In this state, no need is felt to 
separate the abstract from the concrete because both are eloquent with the 
same message, because both image one another. In this state, everything 
expresses the divine; everything is the seat of the divine; everything is 
That; mountains, rivers and the great earth are but the TathAgata, as a 
Chinese teacher, Hsu Yun, proclaimed after his spiritual awakning.”— 


How did the Vedic sages see Gods in Nature’s mighty phenomena like 
the earth, the sky, the sun and the stars? “They saw in them sources and 
springs of their own lives; they saw that these things were part of one 
Great Life; that they were meeting points of great spiritual truths; that they 
revealed what was concealed; that they prefigured a mighty design; that 
they were kith and kin, friends and lovers. But in order to yield their 
deeper meanings, they demanded continued fellowship. This the old sages 
gave ungrudgingly and joyfully. They filled their hearts and the fullness of 
their hearts broke out in songs of praise.”— 


Coming to the plurality of the Vedic Gods and their names, he 
comments, “The names of Gods are not names of external beings. These 
are the names of the truths of man’s own higher self. So the knowledge of 
the epithets of Gods is a form of self-knowledge. Gods and their names 
embody truths of the deeper Spirit and meditation on them in turn invokes 
those truths. But those truths are many and, therefore Gods and their 
names too are many, though they are all held together in the unity of a 
spiritual consciousness.”— 


Equipped with this perspective on the nature of spiritual consciousness 
and its inevitable expressions. Ram Swamp proceeds to examine 
Monotheism and Polytheism. He finds merit in both of them so long as 
they remain spiritual ideas and do not become intellectual concepts. 


“The Spirit,” he observes, “is a unity. It also worships nothing less than 
the Supreme. Monotheism expresses, though inadequately, this intuition of 
man for unity and for the Supreme—... When the urge for unity is 
spiritual, the theology of One God is no bar and the seeker reaches a 
position no different from Advaita, from ekam sat. He realizes that God 
alone is, and not that there is only One God. But if the motive for unity is 


merely intellectual, it helps little spiritually speaking. God remains an 
outward being and does not become the truth of the Spirit. It does not even 
help to reduce the number of Gods; instead it multiplies the number of 
Devils - if Christianity is any guide in the matter. We know Medieval 
Christianity was chockful of them. In fact, they occupied the centre of 
attention of the Church for many centuries to the exclusion of everything 
else. During these centuries it was difficult to say whether the Church 
worshipped God or these devils... The Church also abounded in Gods 
though they were not as plentiful as the devils. But these were not 
recognised as such because they appeared in the guise of angels, 
cherubims and seraphims.”— 


Coming to Polytheism, he comments, “If monotheism represents man’s 
intuition for unity, polytheism represents his urge for differentiation. 
Spiritual life is one but it is vast and rich in expression. The human mind 
also conceives it differently. If the human mind was uniform, without 
depths, heights and levels of subtlety or if all men had the same mind, the 
same imagination, the same needs; in short, if all men were the same, then 
perhaps One God would do. But a man’s mind is not a fixed quantity and 
men and their powers and needs are different. So only some form of 
polytheism alone can do justice to this variety and richness. Besides this 
variety of human needs and human minds, the spiritual reality itself is so 
vast, immense and inscrutable that man’s reason fails and his imagination 
and fancy stagger. Therefore this reality cannot be indicated by one name 
or formula or description. It has to be expressed in glimpses from many 
angles. No single idea or system of ideas could convey it adequately. This 
too points to the need for some form of polytheism.”— 


“The Vedic approach,” concludes Ram Swarup, “is perhaps the best. It 
gives unity without sacrificing diversity. In fact, it gives a deeper unity and 
a deeper diversity beyond the power of ordinary monotheism and 
polytheism. It is one with the yogic and the mystic approach—... In this 
deeper approach, the distinction is not between a true One God and false 


Many Gods; it is between a true way of worship and a false way of 
worship. Wherever there is sincerity, truth and self-giving in worship, that 
worship goes to the true altar by whatever name we may designate it and 
in whatever way we may conceive it. But if it is not desireless, if it has 
ego, falsehood, conceit and deceit in it, then it is unavailing though it may 
be offered to the most true God, theologically speaking.”— 


Summing up. Ram Swarup says, “The truth is that the problem of One 
or Many Gods is born of a theological and not of a mystic consciousness. 
In the Atharvaveda, the sage Vena says that he ‘sees That in that secret 
station of the heart in which the manifoldness of the world becomes one- 
form’... But in another station of man, where not his soul but his mind 
rules, there is opposition between the One and the Many, between God and 
Matter, between God and Gods. On the other hand, when the soul 
awakens, Gods are born in its depths which proclaim and glorify one 
another. Gods are bound to appear when the spiritual consciousness 
awakens; though in another sense they also fall away, God as well as 
Gods, with all their outward, anthropomorphic forms, and along with all 
our conceptions of them, however sublime and. exalted. Yes, even God 
falls away. For there is a spiritual consciousness which can do without 
God. Buddhism, Jainism, SAMkhya, Taoism and Zen confirm the truth of 
this observation. In fact, in Buddhism and Jainism, though Gods are 
plentiful, there is very little of One God. Yet in spiritual perception, insight 
and attainment, these religions are not less than those where One God rules 
the roost and is the sole cock of the walk.”— 


Monotheism as known to history is not born of spiritual seeking. Ram 
Swarup says, “Monotheism was not always a spiritual idea. In many cases 
it was an ideology. It was consolidated in wars and in turn it led to further 
wars... there was a larger association to create, an empire to consolidate, 
or other nations and tribes to conquer, and the idea of a ‘One True God’ 
was handy in the pursuit of this object. The diplomacy, the sword, 
systematic vandalism, all played their part in making a particular god 


supreme. From very early days, the One God of Christianity was bound up 
with the imperial needs of Rome. In more recent times, the Biblical God 
has tried to consolidate what the European arms and trade have 
conquered—... In the cultural history of the world, the replacement of 
Many Gods by One God was accompanied by a good deal of conflict, 
vandalism, bigotry, persecution and crusading. These conflicts were very 
much like the ‘wars of liberation’ of today, hot and cold, openly aggressive 
or cunningly subversive. Success in such wars played no mean role in 
making a local deity, say Allah of certain Arab tribes, win a wider status 
and assume a larger monarchical role—... This point needs stressing. For 
in the past, the controversy between One God and Many Gods or between 
My True God and Your False God led to many rolling of heads and much 
spilled blood, and even today there is no dearth of hot heads and the 
discussion still tends to polemics, bad blood, and frayed tempers. There 
are still organised churches and missions out to make war on the false 
Gods of the heathens.”— 


On the other hand. Polytheism “bred a spirit of religious tolerance and 
freedom” wherever it prevailed. “Ancient Rome, Greece and Egypt - all 
polytheistic cultures - were relatively free from religious wars... Rome, 
Alexandria and Athens were open places where different religions met and 
discussed freely. When St. Paul visited Athens, he was invited by the 
Athenians to speak about his doctrine. He did not avail himself of the 
opportunity but it is obvious that he did not feel at home in this 
atmosphere of free enquiry... St. Paul represented not the spirit’s 
impatience with what is only cerebral but a passionate attachment to a 
fixed idea which is closed to wider viewpoints and larger truths of life. In 
polytheistic Rome too, men of different religious persuasions and sects 
met and built their temples and worshipped in their own way. But this 
freedom disappeared when Christianity, the religion of One True God, 
took over.”— 


Ram Swamp, therefore, calls upon the people of various countries in 
Asia, Africa, Europe and America to return to their ancient Gods which 
have been replaced by the Semitic Gods in the recent past. “It would, 
therefore, be difficult,” he writes, “to hold that the present Gods of Semitic 
origin are superior to the now defunct pagan Gods. There was a time when 
the old pagan Gods were pretty fulfilling and they inspired the best of men 
and women to acts of greatness, love, nobility, sacrifice and heroism. It is, 
therefore, a good thing to return to them in thought and pay them our 
homage. We know pilgrimage, as ordinarily understood, as wayfaring to 
visit a shrine or a holy place. But there can also be a pilgrimage in time 
and we can journey back and make our offerings of the heart to those 
Names and Forms and Forces which once incarnated and expressed man’s 
higher life. They are holy Names and Symbols.”— 


Restoration of old Gods will restore among the people concerned a 
respect for their past. It will also fill the gap in their cultural history. “The 
present generations of many countries tend to regard their past as a 
benighted period of their history. A more understanding approach towards 
their Gods of old will work for a less severe judgement about their past 
and their ancestors. It will also fill the generation gap, not the one we talk 
about the most these days but a still wider one, the general rootlessness of 
a whole nation. Gods provide an invisible link between the past and the 
present of a nation; when they go, the link also snaps. The peoples of 
Egypt, Persia, Greece, Germany and the Scandinavian countries are no less 
ancient than the people of India; but they lost their Gods, and therefore 
they lost their sense of historical continuity and identity.”— 


Such a restoration is particularly relevant for the peoples of Africa and 
South America. “The countries of these continents have recently gained 
political freedom of a sort, but it has done little to help them and to give 
them a spiritual identity. If they wish to rise in a deeper sense, they must 
recover their soul, their Gods, their roots in their own psyche; there has to 
be a spiritual reassertion, a resurrection of their Gods. If they need any 


change, and there is no doubt they do, it must come from within 
themselves as a part of their own experience. If they do enough self¬ 
churning, then their own Gods will put forth new meanings in response to 
their new needs. They have to make the best of their own psychic and 
spiritual gifts and discover their own Gods within themselves. No people 
can import their Gods ready-made and rise spiritually under the aegis of 
imported deities, saviours and prophets.”— 


The old Gods are not dead; they have only withdrawn themselves. “If 
there is sufficient aspiration, invoking, and soliciting, there is no doubt that 
even Gods apparently lost could come back again. They are there all the 
time. For nothing that has any truth in it can be destroyed. It merely goes 
out of manifestation; but it could reappear under propitious circumstances. 
So could the old Gods come to life again in response to new summons.”— 


It was quite apt that a review of Ram Swarup’s book which appeared in 
The Times of India dated March 29, 1981 described it as a call for “The 
Return of the Gods”. The reviewer was the noted scholar from 
Santiniketan, Dr. Sisir Kumar Ghose. He was well-known as an exponent 
of Sri Aurobindo’s thought. 


Five years later. Ram Swarup examined Monotheism more concretely, 
that is, its unfoldment in the form of Islam and Christianity. “The spiritual 
equipage of Islam and Christianity,” he wrote, “is similar; their spiritual 
contents, both in quality and quantum, are about the same. The central 
piece of the two creeds is ‘One True God’ of masculine gender who makes 
himself known to his believers through an equally favoured individual. 
The theory of mediumistic communication has not only a psychology; it 
has also a theology laid down long ago in the oldest part of the Bible in the 
Deuteronomy (18.19-20). The Biblical God says that he will speak to his 
chosen people through his chosen prophet: ‘I will tell him what to say, and 
he will tell the people everything I command. I will punish anyone who 


refuses to obey him’ {Good News Bible). The whole prophetic spirituality, 
whether found in the Bible or in the Quran, is mediumistic in essence. 
Here everything takes place through a proxy, through an intermediary. 
Here man knows God through a proxy; and probably God too knows man 
through the same proxy. The proxy is the favoured individual, a privileged 
mediator. ‘No one knows the Son except the Father, and no one knows the 
Father except the Son and anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal 
him,’ says the Bible (Matt.XI. 27). The Quran makes no very different 
claim. ‘This day I have perfected your religion,’ says the Allah of the 
Quran through his last prophet (5.3).”— 


He thought that the time had come for Hindus to evaluate Christianity 
and Islam in terms of Hindu spirituality. “Hitherto we have looked on 
Hinduism through the eyes of Islam and Christianity. Let us now learn to 
look at these ideologies from the vantage point of Hindu spirituality - they 
are no more than ideologies, lacking as they are in the integrality and 
inwardness of true religion and spirituality. Such an exercise would also 
throw light on the self-destructiveness of modem ideologies of 
Communism and Imperialism, inheritors of the prophetic mission or 
‘burden’ in its secularised version of Christianity and Islam. The 
perspective gained will be a great corrective and will add a new liberating 
dimension; it will help not only India and Hinduism but the whole 

world .”22 


Respect for Hinduism, Buddhism, Taoism and Confucianism, and 
revolt against closed theologies was already growing in the world. 
“Dogmas are under a cloud; claims on behalf of Last Prophethood and 
Only Sonship, hitherto enforced through great intellectual conditioning, 
browbeating and the big stick, are becoming unacceptable. Religions of 
proxy are in retreat. More and more men now seek authentic experience. 
Men and women are ceasing to be obedient believers and are becoming 
seekers. They no longer want to be anybody’s sheep, now that they know 
they can be their own shepherds. An external authority, even when it is 


called God in certain scriptures, threatening and promising alternately, is 
increasingly making less and less impression; people now realize that 
Godhead is their own true, secret status and they seek it in the depths of 
their own being. All this is in keeping with the wisdom of the East.”— 


Ram Swamp completed his evaluation of the Semitic creeds by 
locating them in their proper place on the map of the Samkhya-Yoga 
philosophy and psychology which are shared in common by all schools of 
Sanatana Dharma. He pointed out that the traditional commentators on 
Yoga had concentrated on the yogic or ekAgra samAdhi and neglected 
treatment of non-yogic samAdhis. It was, however, the non-yogic 
samAdhis which held the key to an understanding of the psychic 
phenomena which do not have their source in the yogic samAdhi. We shall 
quote him at some length: 


Considering that the two kinds of samAdhis are not unoften confused 
with each other, it would have served the cause of clarity if both were 
discussed and their differences pointed out. After all, the Gita does it; in its 
last two chapters, it discusses various spiritual truths like austerity, faith, 
duty, knowledge in their triple expression and sharply distinguishes their 
sAttvika from their rAjasika and tAmasika imitations. 


The elucidation of non-yogic samAdhis or ecstasies has also its 
positive value and peculiar concern. It could help to explain quasi¬ 
religious phenomena which, sadly, have been only too numerous and too 
important in the spiritual history of man. Many creeds seemingly religious 
sail under false labels and spread confusion. As products of a fitful mind, 
they could ‘not but make only a temporary impression and their life could 
not but be brief. But as projections of a mind in some kind of samAdhi, 
they acquire unusual intensity, a strength of conviction and tenacity of 
purpose {mUDhagraha) which they could not otherwise have. 


.. .We may say that even the lower bhUmis (kAma-bhUmis) have their 
characteristic trances or samAdhis, their own Revelations, Prophets and 
Deities. They project ego-gods and desire-gods and give birth to dvesha- 
dharmas and moha-dharmas, hate religions and delusive ideologies. All 
these projections have qualities very different from the qualities of the 
projections of the yogic bhUmi. 


For example, the God of the yoga-bhUmi of PAtaNjala Yoga is free, 
actually and potentially, from all limiting qualities like desire, aversion, 
hankering, ego and nescience; free from all actions, their consequences, 
present or future, active or latent. Or in the language of PAtaNjala Yoga, he 
is untouched by klesha-karma-vipAka-Ashaya. But the god of the ecstasies 
of non-yogic bhUmi or kAma-bhUmi is very different. He has strong likes 
and dislikes and has cruel preferences. He has his favorite people, 
churches and ummas and his implacable enemies. He is also very egoistic 
and self-regarding; he can brook no other god or gods. He insists that all 
gods other than himself are false and should not be worshipped. He is a 
‘jealous god’, as he describes himself in the Bible. And he ‘whose name is 
jealous’ is also full of ‘fierce anger’ {aph) and cruelty. He commands his 
chosen people that when he has brought them to the promised land and 
delivered its people into their hands, ‘thou shalt smite them, and utterly 
destroy them; thou shalt make no covenant with them, nor show mercy 
unto them... ye shall destroy their altars, and break down their images, and 
cut down their groves... For thou art an holy people unto the Lord...’ 
(Deut.7.I-6). 


The Allah of the Quran exhibits about the same qualities. He is a god 
of wrath (ghazb); on those who do not believe in him and his prophets, he 
wreaks a terrible punishment {azAb al-azeem). In the same vein, he is also 
a mighty avenger (azeez-ul-intiqAm). He is also a god of ‘plenteous spoils’ 
(mUghanim kasir, 4.94). He tells the -believers how he repulsed their 
opponents and caused them to inherit the land, the houses and the wealth 



of the disbelievers (33.27). He closely follows the spirit of Jehovah who 
promised his chosen people that he would give them ‘great and goodly 
cities they builded not, and wells which they digged not, vineyards and 
olive trees they planted not’ (Deut. 6.10-11). 


No wonder this kind of god inspired serious doubts and questions, 
among thinking people. Some of his followers like Philo and Origen 
allegorized him to make him more acceptable. Some early Christian 
gnostics simply rejected him. They said that he was an imperfect being 
presiding over an imperfect moral order; some even went further and 
regarded him as the principle of Evil. Some gnostic thinkers called him 
‘SamaeT, a blind God or the God of the blind; others called him ‘lalda 
baoth’, the son of Chaos. 


He continues to offend the moral sense of our rational age too. Thomas 
Jefferson thinks that the ‘Bible God is a being of terrific character, cruel, 
vindictive, capricious and unjust.’ Thomas Paine (1737-1809) says of the 
Bible that ‘it would be more consistent that we call it the work of a demon 
than the word of God.’ 


Hindus will buy any outrages if they are sold as Gods, Saints, or 
Prophets. They have also a great weakness for what they describe as 
‘synthesis’. In that name, they will lump together most discordant things 
without any sense of their propriety and congruity, intellectual or spiritual. 
However, a few names like Bankim Chandra, Swami Dayananda, 
Vivekananda, Aurobindo and Gandhi are exceptions to the rule. To 
Bankim, the God of the Bible is ‘a despot’ and Jesus’s doctrine of ‘eternal 
punishment’ in the ‘everlasting Fire’ (Matt. 25. 41) is ‘devilish’. Swami 
Dayananda remembering -how the Biblical ‘Lord sent a pestilence... and 
there fell seventy thousand men of Israel’ (I Chr. 21.14), His Chosen 
people, observes that even ‘the favour of a capricious God so quick in His 
pleasure is full of danger’, as the Jews know it only too well. Similarly, the 



Swami argues, in his usual unsparing way, that the Allah and Shaitan of 
the Quran, according to its own showing, are about the same. 


But to reject is not to explain. Why should a god have to have such 
qualities? And why should a being who has such qualities be called a god? 
And why should he have so much hold? Indian Yoga provides an answer. 
It says that though not a truly spiritual being, he is thrown up by a deeper 
source in the mind. He is some sort of a psychic formation and carries the 
strength and attraction of such a formation. He also derives his qualities 
and dynamism from the chitta-bhUmi in which he originates. 


It will explain that the Biblical God is not peculiar and he is not a 
historical oddity. He has his source in man’s psyche and he derives his 
validity and power from there; therefore he comes up again and again and 
is found in cultures widely separated. This god has his own ancestry, his 
own sources from which he is fed, his own tradition and principle of 
continuity, self-renewal and self validation. 


Not many know that a similar God, II Tengiri, presided also over the 
life of Chingiz Khan and bestowed on him Revelations. Minhajus Siraj, 
the mid-thirteenth century historian, tells us in his TabqAt-i-NAsiri, that 
‘after every few days, he (Chingiz Khan) would have a fit and during his 
unconsciousness he would say all sorts of things... Some one would write 
down all he said, put (the papers) in a bag and sealed them. When Chingiz 
recovered consciousness, everything was read out to him and he acted 
accordingly. Generally, in fact always, his designs were successful.’ 


In this, one can see unmistakable resemblance with the revelations or 
wahi of the Semitic tradition. 



In actual life, one seldom meets truths of the kAma-bhUmi unalloyed. 
Often they are mixtures and touched by intrusions from the truths of the 
yoga-bhUmi above. This however makes them still more virulent; it puts a 
religious rationalization on them. It degrades the higher without uplifting 
the lower. The theories of jihAd, crusades, conversions and da‘wa become 
spiritual tasks. Commandments of God, religious obligations, vocations 
and duties of a Chosen People. ‘See my zeal for the Lord’, says Jehu, an 
army captain anointed as king at the command of Jehovah. Bound to 
follow His will, he called all the prophets, servants, priests and 
worshippers of rival Baal on the pretext of organising his service and when 
they were gathered, his guards and captains ‘smote them with the edge of 
the sword’ and ‘they brake down the image of Baal, and brake down the 
house of Baal, and made it a draught house (latrine) unto this day’ (2 
Kings 10.25,27).”24 


This characterisation of the Semitic creeds, their gods, their scriptures 
and their prophets was bound to bring about a radical change in the Hindu 
assessment of Christianity. More and more Hindu thinkers and scholars are 
going to primary sources rather than remain satisfied with the professions 
of the Christian missionaries. The dialogue initiated by Ram Swamp in 
1980 has been carried forward in a series of publications from VOICE OF 
INDIA, a forum for presenting the Hindu point of view. The publications 
cover the doctrine of Christianity, its history, its heroes, its saints and its 
institutions. 

Footnotes: 

- Ram Swamp, introduction to Mohammed and the Rise of Islam 
by D.S. Margoliouth, New Delhi, Reprint, 1985 and 1995, p. xix. 

- Rigveda, I. 164.46. 

- This part of the Kalima is now being translated as “there is no 
god but God”, which is not only mistaken but also mischievous. Allah 


has claimed unmistakably in the Quran that he is the god of the 
Muslims alone; the Quran never presents him as God of mankind. 


- Ram Swamp, Introduction to Mohammed and the Rise of Islam, 
p. xvii 

- Ibid., pp. xvii-xviii. 

- Ram Swamp, The Word As Revelation : Names of Gods, New 
Delhi, 1980, p. 107. 

- Ibid., p. 108. 

- Ibid., p. 5. 

^Ibid.,p. 109. 

^Ibid.,p. 110. 

^Ibid.,p. 11 5. 

^Ibid.,^. 110. 

— Chhandogya Upnishad, 7.6.1. 

— Ram Swamp, The Word As Revelation, pp. 111-12. 

— Ibid., p. 117. 

^Ibid.,p. 116. 

— Ibid., p. 126. 

^Ibid.,p. 127. 

^Ibid.,p. 128. 

^Ibid.,p. 128. 


^Ibid.,p. 129. 

^Ibid., pp. 129-30. 

— Ibid., p. 126. 

— Ibid., p. 131. 

^Ibid., pp. 133-34. 

^Ibid., pp. 125-26. 

^Ibid., pp. 131-32. 

^Ibid.,p. 132. 

^Ibid.,^. 133. 

— Ibid. 

— Ram Swamp, Introduction to Mohammed and the Rise of Islam, 
pp. xvi-xvii. 

— Ibid., pp. xix-xx. 

— Ibid., p. XX. 

— Ram Swarup, Introduction to Inner Yoga (Antaryoga) by 
Anirvan, translated into English by S. N. Chatterjee, Voice of India, 
New Delhi, 1988, pp. viii-xi. 


19 

Sannyasins or Swindlers? 


Hinduism Today, a bimonthly- published by the Saiva Siddhanta 
Church with headquarters in Hawaii, U.S.A., carried an article, ‘Catholic 
Ashrams: Adopting and Adapting Hindu Dharma’, in its issue of 
November-December, 1986. It noticed particularly the Saccidananda 
Ashram at Shantivanam in the Tiruchirapally District of Tamil Nadu. “The 
Shantivanam Ashram,” it said, “looks like a rishi’s home transported from 
Vedic times to the bank of sacred Cauvery River... A pilgrim’s first 
impressions are strong, and very Hindu; the elaborately colorful Hindu 
shrine; the bearded, saffron-robed ‘swami’ seated cross-legged on a straw 
mat; devotees practising yogic meditation, even chanting Hindu scriptures. 
But these impressions gradually prove false. First, the eye detects that the 
courtyard shrine is for Saint Paul and that ‘puja’ is actually a daily mass, 
complete with incense, arati, lamps, flower offerings and prasadam. 
Finally, one meets the ‘swami’, learning he is Father Bede ‘Dayananda’ 
Griffiths, a Christian ‘sannyasin’ of impeccable British background.” 

The article raised an important question. “Are these places to be 
endorsed by Hindus as worthy attempts to share each other’s spirituality Or 
are they a spiritual oxymoron, a contradiction of terms, because Christians 
are interested in sharing - dialogue is the term they use - only as a means to 
conversions?” It also provided the answer by drawing a parallel. “A 
comparison,” a observed, “might best illustrate Hindu concerns. Let us 
imagine that one day a Muslim missionary arrives in a poor section of 
America such as a part of the Catholic Hispanic (Mexican origin) section 
of San Francisco. Well supplied with zeal and petrodollars from his own 
country, he learns Spanish, builds a Muslim cathedral along the lines of a 
Catholic building, outfitting it with pews, organs, choirs and so forth. 
Preaching from a Christian Bible appropriately edited according to the 
Koran, he puts on the clerical collar and black robes of a Catholic priest 
and holds Sunday services which look just like Mass, except that prayers 
are to Allah and Mohammed instead of Jesus. In ministering to the local 
people, he tells them that his Islamic faith is just a slight variation of 


Christianity, one which puts the crowning touches on it. Their fathers’ 
religion, Catholicism was, he says, flawed but it is a good preparation for 
Islam. He gives loans to those in need, which need not be repaid if one 
joins his Church. He opens an orphanage and raises the children as 
Muslims though their parents are Christians. 

When accused of deceiving the people, he says he is only adapting his 
religion to the local context and expressing his Muslim charity and divine 
call to evangelize.” 



Soon after this 


article appeared, an interesting dialogue developed, independently, on 
the character and role of these “experiments in cross-cultural 
communication” 

or “contemplative hermitages that revolve round both Christian and 
Hindu ideals.” The Hindu point of view was presented by Swami 
Devananda Saraswati of Madras. Fr. Bede Griffiths himself came forward 
to present the Christian point of view. 

The dialogue started when the Indian Express of Madras published on 
March 18, 1987, the summary of a talk which a Christian theologian. Dr. 
Robert Wayne Teasdale, had delivered on March 12. Describing Fr. Bede 
Griffiths as “Britain’s appropriate gift to India”, Dr. Teasdale had 
applauded the Saccidananda Ashram as ‘a place of dialogue reconciliation 
and experience in depth’ 

between Christianity and Hinduism. Shantivanam, he had said, was 
“the peace capital of the world.” Between March 25 and April 30, the 
newspaper published five letters from its Christian readers. Three of them 
supported Fr. Bede Griffiths’ experiment with Hindu symbols and sacred 
texts; the other two opposed it as a pollution and a move unauthorised by 
the Vatican. Finally, Dr. Teasdale came out with a rejoinder which was 
published in the Indian Express of June 1,1987. He praised Fr. Bede 
Griffiths for the latter’s study of “the Vedas, the Upanishads, and the Gita 
as well as other texts sacred to the Hindu tradition”, and explained that he 
(Fr. Bede) had adopted “elements of Hindu ritual and prayer not to 
‘produce his own mix’ but rather to express the Christian faith in terms 
intelligible to Indians.” 



It was at this 


point that Swami Devananda wrote a letter to the Indian Express. 

“Ten years ago,” he said, “I suggested to a papal nuncio that I might 
don a friar’s habit and preach Hinduism in the Italian countryside. I was 
promptly warned that I would be charged with impersonating a cleric and 
public mischief, as Roman Catholicism was the protected state religion and 
in full control of Italian education. Hinduism is neither protected nor 
India’s state religion and we find priests like Bede Griffiths in the garb of 
Hindu sannyasis preaching Christianity in the Tamil countryside... Bede 
Griffiths has no grasp at all of the Indian psyche. It must be brought to his 
attention that he is meddling with the soul of a very old and sophisticated 
people by continuing his experiments at Shantivanam.” 

The Indian Express did not publish this letter. But its copy which had 
been endorsed to Fr. Bede Griffiths, elicited from him a reply on June 17. 
“The ochre robe,” he said, “is the sign of sannyasa and sannyasa according 
to ancient Hindu tradition signifies renunciation of all worldly ties, the 
transcendence of all ‘dharmas’, that is, all social bonds, whether social or 
religious... 

Today we feel more than ever the need to go beyond the limitations of 
the different religions and seek for the source of unity which can unite 
them in the service of humanity. This is how we understand sannyasa in 
our ashram and why we feel justified in wearing the ochre robe. I may say 
that in all my more than thirty years in India I have never before known a 
Hindu sannyasi object to this... We see in this one way of bridging the gulf 
between Hindus and Christians and working towards that unity among 
religions for which the world is looking today.” 



Swami Devananda 


replied on July 21. After explaining how “the sannyasin is the very 
embodiment of Sanatana Dharma, “ he said, “The Church does not 
recognise a priest outside of the apostolic succession of Peter, and we do 
not recognise a priest outside the Hindu parampara. In that you are a 
Roman priest and a Benedictine monk, you cannot possibly be a sannyasin; 
it is verily a contradiction in terms... Christianity, from its very inception to 
today, has subsumed and subverted the deities, symbols, rituals and 
philosophies of the peoples it wishes to conquer. This activity which is 
imperial and not spiritual, must cease before hostilities and mistrust will 
die; hostilities, by the way, that we never invited in the first place. By 
trying to justify your position as it is now, you impugn Hinduism, slur 
sannyasa, rout reason, ruin meaning, mutilate categories, transpose 
symbols, deny sacred convention and usage, profane principles, 
philosophise, and generally present an argument that is oxymoronic.” 

Fr. Bede Griffiths wrote back on July 23: “You are anxious to establish 
Hinduism as a separate religion with its own unique doctrine and symbols 
which differentiate it from other religions. But most Hindus hold the 
opposite view and maintain with Ramakrishna and Vivekananda that all 
religions are essentially the same and differ only in accidental 
characteristics which can be ignored. I have myself difficulties in accepting 
this position but I would have said that it is the prevailing view among 
educated Hindus to-day...- Perhaps my chief quarrel with you is that you 
are trying to institutionalise Hinduism, to turn it into a sectarian religion, 
which seems to me to be the opposite of its true character. I feel that you do 
the same to Catholicism. 

That Catholicism has a strong institutional character I do not deny, but I 
would say that there is something in Catholicism which transcends its 
institutionalised character as there is in Hinduism and that is what 
matters... 

Our search today is to go beyond the institutional structure of religion 
and discover the hidden mystery which is at the heart of all religion. 


It is this that sannyasa means to me.” He quoted in his support what 
Swami Abhishiktananda (Fr. Henri la Saux), another ‘Christian sannyasin’ 
and his predecessor in the Saccidananda Ashram, had written about 
sannyasa. 



Swami Devananda 


replied on July 30: “I would like to give you the benefit of the doubt (as 
do many of my brothers). I am not able to do so because the inherent 
tolerance and secularism of Hinduism has been abused by your kind too 
long. 

I appreciate that you do not want a sectarian Hinduism, for that would 
directly threaten your own vested interests... Church motives are always 
suspect when they are not openly vicious, and the means she employs to 
further her own wicked ends has never had any relationship to the ideals 
she preaches at others. You have been in India long enough to know that 
we idolaters are more interested in what we see than what we hear. We 
want action, right action, not words... You preach the transcendence of 
religion but remain yourself an official of a sectarian religion... And not 
only are you a Roman priest, but the moment you get into trouble you run 
to mummy Church for financial, emotional, moral, psychological, and 
doctrinal aid. How is this foreign and first allegiance going to bring about 
the Indianisation of Christianity, much less the transcendence of religion? 

Yet you have the insolence to suggest that Hinduism not organise 
herself in her hour of need. You will teach us religious transcendence from 
the very pit of religious institutionalism, a pit we have not fallen into in 
10,000 years. I think your motives are clear; indeed, the idea is worthy of a 
Jesuit! We will transcend our dharma and the Roman Church will happily 
reap the benefits of our foolishness, being already on the scene to fill in the 
void we leave behind us. If you were remotely serious about the spiritual 
ideals expressed in your letter, you would renounce the Church forthwith 
and humbly place yourself in the hands of God. Hinduism has always been 
a commonwealth of religious and spiritual institutions, some highly 
sectarian, though we have avoided the curse of centralisation. There are 
times when centralisation is justified, when the Hindus of conviction must 
work together for a common goal. This is not sectarianism; it is common 
sense. I do think Dayananda and Vivekananda would agree with me here. 
Shankara himself institutionalised sannyas for the same reason that the 
institution must be revitalised today: to protect dharma. We have always 
maintained and practised the spiritual ideal of transcending institutional 



limitations, and have succeeded where others have failed because our 
spiritual disciplines demand that the correct means be employed. The first 
injunction observed by all seekers is that they do not interfere with, 
bastardise, or destroy the culture, traditions, symbols, and religion that 
support them on their journey, even when they have passed beyond these 
institutions. And passing beyond these institutions does not mean meddling 
with them on the way. 

God has always given us reformers when we need them. Do you 
qualify, Bede Griffiths?” 

Fr. 

Bede Griffiths wrote back on July 31: “It is clear from all you say that 
you are a fundamentalists.^ — Whether Hindu or Christian or Buddhist or 
Muslim, a fundamentalist is one who clings to the outward forms of 
religion and loses sight of the inner spirit... Nothing could be further from 
the spirit of the great Hindus of the past, Ramakrishna, Vivekananda, 
Mahatma Gandhi, Sri Aurobindo, Ramana Maharshi or Ramalinga 
Swamigal. They remained firmly Hindu in their religion but were open to 
the spirit of truth in Christianity and in all other religions. I consider myself 
a Christian in religion but Hindu in spirit, just as they were Hindus in 
religion while being Christian in Spirit.. .- It is obvious that we differ 
fundamentally in our understanding both of Hinduism and of Christianity 
and indeed of religion in general, so I will not continue this 
correspondence 

But Swami Devananda did not give up. He wrote on August 7: “I had 
hoped that when you took refuge in humbug jargon, I would at least rate 
above a superstitious fundamentalist. 

Chinmayananda is often dubbed a communalist, and I was looking 
forward to some dramatic monotheistic curse like Great Satan or 
Antichrist... it remains that you have avoided every specific issue, with 
generalisations and specious philosophising; it remains that you exploit our 
tolerance, secularism, and hospitality; it remains that you abuse and pervert 
our symbols and traditions to your own motivated missionary ends... You 


have not transcended religion and you have no intention of doing so, 
whatever your pious declarations. You have an overriding ambition to 
subvert and subsume us with our own spiritual concepts, just as Paul 
subverted and subsumed the Greeks with their’s. As you see parallels in 
history, so do we, and we are thus forearmed. We will not be meekly sold 
down the river like Constantine !... I am not the protector of Sanatana 
Dharma; Narayana is the only protector of Dharma. This is an awful truth 
for you to admit, Bede Griffiths, and one that neither you nor I will 
escape.” 

The dialogue remained at a standstill for some days. It was resumed 
after Swami Devananda had studied the writings of Fr. J. Monchanin, the 
founder of the Saccidananda Ashram, who also had taken to the ochre robe 
and named himself Swami Param Arubi Anandam. He had written frankly 
and in a straightforward manner that Christianity should use Hindu 
philosophy and cultural forms in order to subvert Hinduism. Swami 
Devananda brought these writings to the notice of Fr. Bede Griffiths. “I 
discover,” he wrote on August 27, “that his writings directly confirm my 
suspicions about your motives and activities in India... 

This being the case, you have no moral authority to address or advise 
seekers of Truth.” 

Fr. Bede Griffiths replied on August 31: “Of course, if I held the same 
view as Father Monchanin, you would be justified in suspecting me of 
deception. But you must remember that Father Monchanin was writing 
forty years ago and immense changes have taken place in the Church since 
then. The Vatican Council introduced a new understanding of the relation 
of the Church to other religions and all of us have been affected by this. 
Swami Abhishiktananda (Fr. le Saux) in particular early separated himself 
from Fr. Monchanin, especially after his profound experience with Raman 
Maharshi at Tiruvanamalai...- you must realise also that the view which I 
hold is not peculiar to me. 

It is approved by the authorities of the Church both in India and in 
Rome. 


Many Catholics, of course, will not agree with it, but the understanding 
of the relation of the Church to other religions is only slowly growing and 
there are many different views in the Church today.” 

Swami Devananda’s 

reply which he wrote on September 7, deserves to be quoted at some 
length. 

He said: 

There is no evidence that the Church has changed her wicked ways in 
the last forty years. On the contrary, since the checks placed on the Church 
by the British were removed, she has been busy making hay in our tolerant 
secular sunshine. 

The methods of conversion have changed, but the Church’s ancient 
ambition for world dominion has not changed. The Pope himself 
contributes over fifty million dollars a year towards missionary work 
worldwide, and this does not include the vaster sums of money available to 
Christian evangelists of all persuasions for their so-called charities. What 
has happened in the Church is that the term ‘heathen’ has been changed to 
‘non-Christian’ 

(with the prayer that the ‘non’ will soon disappear). There have also 
been some unctuous platitudes uttered about our spiritual heritage at 
official functions. Rome, in her eternal conceit, thinks we will accept the 
facelift at face value and not probe into the heart of the person who wears 
the mask. This presumption itself is an example of patronising Christian 
arrogance. 

If the Church had in fact changed her ways then the dirty work of 
converting our poor and humble masses to Christianity would have long 
ago ceased!... 



You do not need 


Church sanction to experiment with Hindu traditions and symbols or 
call yourself a sannyasin. You do need - and refuse to seek - the sanction of 
traditional Hindu authorities. Hindus do not recognise Church decrees vis- 
a-vis acts that affect them and their religious culture. Your declarations of 
Church approval is part bluff, part appeal. As we do not permit you to 
stand on our head, you seem to think we will permit the Church to stand 
there instead. This is exactly the message your bastard symbol of Omkara 
and cross conveys to us. We utterly reject both the symbol and the 
message... 

Except as a psychological curiosity, I am no more interested in your 
personal beliefs than I am in those held by the political commissar at the 
local Russian consulate. Like him, you will argue that my beliefs compel 
me to respect your beliefs and thus accept your actions, even if they are 
detrimental to my traditions. 

I am very interested in your actions and how they affect Hinduism, and 
I do not accept them. I have said this before and it is what lies at the heart 
of my letters. In reply, you manifest that syndrome the Germans call 
vorbeireden, translated as ‘talking-past-the-point’. This is a tactic to avoid 
contact with relevant issues. It often involves deceit and/ or self-deceit; but 
it does not mean that you misunderstand the situation. It is a verbose device 
to circumvent truth; and this, I concede sadly, is exactly what you have 
done. I really think it is time for some serious introspection. 

I have read Christ in India: your expressed attitudes and ambitions for 
us are little different from Monchanin’s.” 

In his book, Christ in India, written in 1966 and reprinted in 1986, only 
an year before this dialogue took place, Fr. Bede Griffiths had left no one in 
doubt that Hindu philosophies and cultural forms were to be used for 
conveying Christianity. 

Only his language was less straightforward than that of Fr. Monchanin. 



So was the language of Fr. Henry le Saux who was the successor of Fr. 
Monchanin at Saccidanand Ashram and who went about as Swami 
Abhishiktananda, proclaiming that he had reconciled Hinduism and 
Christianity in his experience of the Advaita! 

A few more letters were exchanged. Finally, Fr. Bede Griffiths insisted 
on his right to use the Hindu symbol, OM, in his letter dated October 16. 
He said, “Of course, Om is by no means confined to Hinduism. It is found 
in Buddhism as well. Would you like to write to the Dalai Lama and tell 
him to stop the Tibetan people from using their most sacred mantra; Om 
mani padma hum?”- 


Swami Devananda 


replied on October 21: “Apparently you know as little about Buddhism 
as you do about Hinduism, both of which are Sanatana Dharma. They have 
the same roots and traditions and usages and a mutual spiritual ideal that 
goes far beyond their differences. This is not true of the Semitic ideologies, 
which by their own definition, claim to be superior, unique and exclusive. 

Voitaire warned of these closed creeds when he wrote: ‘The man who 
says to me. Believe as I do or God will damn you, will presently say to me. 
Believe as I do or I will kill you.’ Think about this carefully. Father Bede, 
for you are the ordained representative of one of these creeds. And you 
seem to know even less about mantra than you do about Sanatana 
Dharma.” 



This dialogue 


about Christian missionaries masquerading as Hindu sannyasins 
continued, off and on, in the columns of the Indian Express of Madras. 
Some Hindus showed awareness of the true character of Christianity and its 
missionary methods. Others saw no harm in Christian missionaries taking 
to the ochre robe and using Hindu symbols in their worship; they felt that 
this was the way for the two religions to come together and work for 
common good. 

Goodwill, however, is no substitute for knowledge. And that is what 
most of our men of goodwill seem to lack. They will do well by reading 
some of the books in which Christian missionaries have expounded their 
strategies. 



The article in 


Hinduism Today and the dialogue between Swami Devananda and Fr. 

Bede Griffiths alerted me, and made me look up the literature on 
Indigenisation (Acculturation) and the Christian Ashram Movement. Here I 
hit pay-dirt as they say in detective stories. The literature was quite frank 
about missionary intentions. I was, now equipped to quote chapter and 
verse in proof of the stark truth that Indigenisation was no more than a 
mission strategy calculated to rope in Hindu philosophies, Hindu schools of 
Bhakti, and Hindu cultural forms in the service of Christianity. The 
Christian Ashram Movement, I discovered, was a predatory enterprise 
inaugurated in the early years of the seventeenth century by an abominable 
scoundrel, Robert Di Nobili of the Society of Jesus, who had masqueraded 
as a Brahmana from Rome, who had claimed to be in possession of the lost 
Yajurveda, and who had succeeded in baptising some Hindus before he was 
found out. The very fact that this scoundrel became and had remained the 
patron saint of Indigenisation was speaking volumes about its true 
character. Starting with Fr. Monchanin of the Saccidananda Ashram at 
Shantivanam, Fr. Henri le Saux and Fr. Bede Griffiths were in the same 
game. The book, Christ in India, by Bede Griffiths was giving a call which 
was loud and clear, namely, that Hindu civilization was to be taken over by 
‘Hindu Christians’ 

as the ‘Greek Fathers’ of the Church had taken over the Greek 
civilization. 



The outcome of 


this research on my part was a book, Catholic Ashrams: Adopting and 
Adapting Hindu Dharma, published by VOICE OF INDIA in 1988. It 
included four articles from Hinduism Today and the dialogue between 
Swami Devananda Saraswati and Fr. Bede Griffiths. A Preface was 
provided by me, documenting the Indigenisation strategy in some detail 
from impeccable Christian sources. Hindu readers found the book 
revealing. Christian missionary circles, on the other hand, felt upset. 
Christian Ashrams had been functioning so far without any fear of Hindus 
knowing their true character. Now on, they had the feeling that they were 
being watched by a vigilant Hindu society. 

Fr. Griffiths’ stock fell even in Christian circles. The number of visitors 
to his ‘Ashram’ declined. He had been found out. 



I happened to 


be the Treasurer of the Abhishiktananda Society in Delhi for a number 
of years. I had joined the Society at a time when I believed that the talk 
about Hindu Christian dialogue was sincere. Now that I had exposed it as a 
strategy, my Christian friends in the Society felt pained, particularly at 
what I had written about Abhishiktananda after whom the Society was 
named. They tried to convince me that although Abhishiktananda had 
started as a missionary, he had changed in later years. One of them, 
Vandana Mataji who runs a Christian Ashram at Rishikesh and has written 
a book on the subject, protested, politely in my presence but vehemently 
elsewhere. It became her wont to describe me as a ‘Hindu fundamentalist’ 
in Christian publications in this country and abroad. I was also attacked as 
a ‘Hindu fundamentalist’ by a Catholic lady writer in a book published in 
Belgium in 1990. Some other notices of the same kind were reported by 
friends in a few other countries. 



There was another 


sequel to the Devananda-Griffiths dialogue in early 1990. Shri Ram 
Swamp has the laudable habit of erring on the side of generosity. He had a 
distinct feeling that Swami Devananda and I had been unnecessarily hard 
on Fr. Bede Griffiths - Swami Devananda-in his letters and I in my Preface 
to the book and that the man was after all not that bad. So he decided to 
try out Fr. Bede on his own. He sent to Fr. Bede a copy of his review of 
The Myth of Christian Uniqueness: Towards a Pluralistic Theology of 
Religion edited by John Hick and Paul F. Knitter and published in the USA 
in 1988. 

The review had appeared in The Statesman on 14 January 1990. 

Fr. Bede thanked 

Ram Swamp in a letter dated 17 February 1990 and offered a few 
comments. 

“This openess to other religions,” he said, “has always been present in 
Christianity from the beginning, though the opposite attitude of rejection 
has generally prevailed. The Bible itself, though it became more and more 
exclusive, always had an opening for the ‘Gentiles’... The God of Izrael 
was always conceived as the God of all humanity, although interest centres 
more and more exclusively on Izrael. In the same way Jesus in the New 
Testament goes out of his way to proclaim the presence of God among 
other nations...” 

He also struck a personal note as he wrote, “When I was received into 
the Catholic Church in 1930 it was this belief in the presence of God 
among all nations that I accepted. Still I admit that it was rare and it was 
only at the Vatican Council in 1960 that it was officially acknowledged by 
the Church. For me this was only the formal acceptance of what I have 
always believed and practised.” He concluded by saying that “we all have 
to learn how to be true to our own religion while we are critical of its 
limitations and to be equally true to the values of other religions while we 
recognize their limitations.” 



Ram Swamp replied on 31 March 1990 and commented that Fr. Bede’s 
“personal history is not merely interesting but it encourages me to make a 
personal confession.” 

He went on to relate how he, like “all or most Hindus”, had started by 
believing that “all religions say the same things”, but had to “reflect deeply 
on the subject” after going through the following, among other books: 

1. The Encyclopaedia of Religions and Ethics in 12 volumes. 

2. Proceedings of a Seminar “held at Almora by Christians’ most 
of whom were “connected with ‘Ashrams’ and ‘Niketans’.” 

3. A book by Fr. Monchanin, the founder of Saccidananda 
Ashram, Shantivanam. 

“It was my first 

contact with ‘liberal’ Christianity,” proceeded Ram Swamp, “and I 
thought it was the old missionary ‘war with other means’. After twelve 
years or so I wrote an article on ‘liberal’ Christianity. I am sending a copy 
of this article... I And that it also mentions you briefly.” At the same time. 
Ram Swarup drew Fr. Bede’s attention to how mainstream Christianity was 
continuing to wage a relentless war against other religions while 
maintaining the pretence of studying those religions and holding a dialogue 
with them. 

“They talk of ‘dialogues’ but they are determined that their victims 
should reach the same conclusions as they do. Their means are flexible, but 
their aims are Axed. The situation and the truth of the matter demands that 
we look, not on their arguments but on their mind.” He enclosed another 
article with his letter. It was his review of Seven Hundred Plans to 
Evangelize the World. The Rise of Global Evangelization Movement by 
David B. Barrett and James W. Reapsome published in 1989 by the AD- 
2000 

Series. The review had appeared in The Statesman dated 25 March 
1990. 



Fr. Bede was quick to come out in his true colours. “I am not quite 
sure,” he barked in his letter of 6 April 1990, “what your purpose is in your 
attack on Christianity and Christian Missions. Is it simply to foment 
communal strife in India between Christians and Hindus, or have you some 
deeper purpose? If you want to attack Christianity itself, you will have to 
make a far deeper study of it than you have yet done. Above all you have to 
recognise the profound wisdom and goodness to be found in it, as all 
unbiased Hindus have done...” 



I too had had 


some correspondence with Fr. Bede in 1988 before the first edition of 
Catholic Ashrams was-published. I had found that the Father did not want 
Hindus to look into missionary methods but concentrate on the “evils in 
Hindu society” instead. In his reply of 6 April 1990 to Ram Swamp, Fr. 
Bede referred to this correspondence and said, “I suggested to Mr. Sita 
Ram Goel that you should both make a study of the shady side of 
Hinduism if you want to be honest... How do you account for the fact that 
with all its long tradition of wisdom and spirituality, India today is 
generally considered one of the most cormpt and immoral countries in the 
world?... 1 suggested to Mr. Goel that the Voice of India might well make a 
special study of various aspects of Hinduism. I suggested as a beginning 
the history of human sacrifice and temple prostitution from the earliest 
times to the present day... Another institution is the practice of sorcery and 
magic... 

Above all, of course, there is the problem of untouchability. Surely one 
of the greatest crimes in the history of religion. These things should be 
known and faced by those who defend Hinduism...” 



It was the old 


story once again. - The Christian missionary was telling the Hindus, 
“Please keep on with self-flagellation and breast-beating about the wicked 
society in which you live. We will take care of your salvation.” In other 
words, the bandit wanted his victim to look the other way so that he could 
occupy the latter’s house. The ruse had succeeded eminently. A whole 
battery of Hindu-baiters had come forward to play the Christian 
missionary’s game. 

Some of them were employed by the missionary apparatus, while most 
of them were doing voluntary service to the same racket. It had become 
their whole time occupation to keep Hindus on the defensive, while the 
Christian missionary reaped his harvest of converts. It never occurred to 
these knaves and fools that the Christian missionary whom they were aping 
and helping was viewed in the modem West as a maniac whom it was 
better to dump abroad with a bag of money. 

Fr. Bede had sent 

to Ram Swamp with his first letter of 17 Febmary 1991 a copy of his 
Hibbert Lecture delivered in 1989. Ram Swamp had been impressed by it. 
But now he was face to face with a different Fr. Bede. He acknowledged 
Fr. Bede’s letter of April 6 in his own letter of April 24, and wrote. ‘It is so 
different from your Hibbert Lecture which probably presented a more 
formal and public face, while the letter revealed a more conventional 
traditional-Christian or missionary visage. It was surprising that it took so 
little to surface so readily.’ Fr. Bede’s accusation that Ram Swamp’s 
articles were aimed at creating “communal strife between Christians and 
Hindus” was pinned down by him as “the language of blackmail and even 
threat to which Hindus are often subjected when they show any sign of 
stir.” 



He proceeded to 


point out that Fr. Bede had said “not a word” about “missionary 
Christianity, its theology, its apparatus and plans” with which the articles 
sent to him had dealt. ‘As a missionary,’ conceded Ram Swamp, “probably 
you think that the missionary apparatus is innocent and indeed we should 
be thankful to it for the spiritual aid it offers.” At the same time he asked, 
“Why do you put on hurt looks if they [Hindus] do not take this apparatus 
at its Christian face value and look at it in the light of historical evidence 
and their own experience?” 

Coming to Fr. 

Bede’s advice that Ram Swamp had to “make a far deeper study” of 
Christianity in order to discover ‘the profound wisdom and goodness in it’. 
Ram Swamp observed that he had studied Christianity for quite some time 
and from its most orthodox sources. “I must admit that to a scholar like 
you, my studies of Christianity must appear to be inadequate particularly 
when they have not led me to your conclusions. But I must beg you to take 
into consideration scores of others of impeccable Christian scholarship, 
whose scholarship is at least as good as your own, who have failed to find 
that ‘profound wisdom and goodness’ claimed by you in Christianity. On 
the contrary, they found in it arrogance, exclusive claims, contentious 
spirit, superstitions, lack of charity. Other scholars found that whatever was 
good and true in Christianity was found in other cultures and traditions as 
well but whatever was claimed to be special and unique to it - like virgin 
birth, resurrection, sole Sonship - was just make-believe and not of much 
worth...” 



There was nothing 


new in Fr. Bede’s charge that India today is generally considered one of 
the most corrupt and immoral countries in the world. “I have no means,” 

commented Ram Swamp, “of ranking India in the moral scale, but I 
can readily believe that its place in the missionary world you inhabit must 
be very low, and it must also be low wherever the missionary influence 
reaches.” 

Missionaries had been painting India black for several centuries. 
“Vivekananda had spoken of the mud which missionaries have thrown on 
India, an amount which not all the mud in the ocean-bed will equal.” Many 
Christian networks in the USA at present were singing the same tune. Pat 
Robertson, a presidential candidate in the USA in 1989, had said, “Satan, 
beasts, demons. Destruction of soul in hell. That is what Hinduism is all 
about.” Day spring International had described India as “without spiritual 
hope” and quoted Mother Teresa as saying that Hindus were hungering for 
Jesus Christ. 

Regarding Fr. 

Bede’s advice about studies to be undertaken by VOICE OF INDIA, 
Ram Swamp wondered as to what was to be their scope. “Would the 
proposed study of human sacrifice, for example, include religions in which 
human sacrifice and even cannibalism form the central part of their 
theology and where they celebrate them daily in their most sacred rites?... 
Will it cover temple prostitutes, male and female, at Jerusalem often 
mentioned in the Bible? 

Will it include nunneries and monasteries, and the whole system of 
‘consecration of virgins’ where the morals are often described, not always 
without documentation, in the language you use for the Devadasi 
system?... You want a study of ‘sorcery and magic’... You must be 
knowing that the first Christians pastors were known to be magicians and 
exorcists and that every church had its exorcists. 



Even now exorcism is central to baptism... John Wesley, the founder of 
Methodists, said that ‘giving up witchcraft is in effect giving up the 
Bible’.” 

Finally, Ram Swamp informed Fr. Bede that VOICE OF INDIA 
“cannot undertake studies, you have proposed” and that Christian 
missionaries should stop dictating how Hindus should look at themselves. 
“Too often the missionaries have set our agenda for us. They taught us how 
to look at ourselves through their eyes. What they found wrong with us, we 
found wrong with ourselves. Voice of India wants that Hindus use their 
own eyes in looking at themselves and - also in looking at others.” 

Fr. Bede chose 

not to reply to Ram Swamp’s letter and carry the dialogue further. He 
was not the first Christian missionary nor likely to be the last to run away 
when faced with stark facts and straight logic. But one thing must have 
become clear to him, namely, that Hindus were no more in a mood to take 
it lying down, and that Hindus had started seeing through the patent game 
of a predatory ideologies masquerading as religion. 

Christian missionaries like Fr. Bede Griffiths have been trained in and 
practised double-think and double-speak for so long that they seem to 
know no more the difference between honesty and deceit. Their writings 
on mission strategy leave no doubt that they are out to undo Hinduism. But 
in their tactical writings, particularly in Hindu journals, they pretend to be 
better Hindus than the Hindus themselves. They themselves remain tied, 
hand and foot, to closed dogmas and authoritarian institutions. Yet they call 
upon Hindus to transcend everything and ascend into a starto sphere where 
anything can mean anything. 

They themselves do not believe that all religions say the same things. 

Yet they try to silence Hindus by presenting this proposition. Readers 
of the earlier dialogues in this book know what Sri Ramakrishna, Swami 
Vivekananda and Mahatma Gandhi stood for. Yet our Bede Griffiths will 
have us believe that these great Hindus endorsed Christianity in the same 
way as they did Hinduism. A creed which breeds such dubious and double- 



faced characters raises many questions for which Hindus will have to find 
adequate answers. 

The exchange between Ram Swamp and Fr. Bede Griffiths was 
included in the second and enlarged editions of Catholic Ashrams 
published in 1994. Meanwhile, more letters to the editor on the subject of 
Christian Ashrams and the mission strategy of Indigenisation had come to 
our notice. They were also included in the new compilation. The subtitle of 
the publication was changed from Adopting and Adapting Hindus Dharma 
to Sannyasins or swindlers? to make it more appropriate. 

Footnotes: 

- It became a monthly from July 1987 onwards, 

- This shows the mischief created by Mahatma Gandhi’s and 
Ramakrishna Mission’s slogan of sarva-dharma-samabhAva. It also 
shows the depravity of the missionary mind. Fr. Bede is not at all 
ashamed of using a doctrine to which he does not subscribe. 

- The word ‘fundamentalist’ was in the air as a pejorative term at 
that time. 

All sorts of secularists were bandying it around without ever 
explaining as to what it meant. An official of the Catholic Church 
calling a Hindu sannyasin fundamentalist sounds like a Stalinist 
naming Mahatma Gandhi as ‘fascist’. 

- In this instance, Fr. Bede illustrates the Christian maxim of the 
Devil quoting the scriptures 

- The Christian missionary is always quick to run away from a 
dialogue if it does not develop as per rules laid down by him. 

- Here Fr. Bede was lying with a straight face. His writings as well 
as those of Fr. le Saux, penned years after the Vatican II, leave no 
doubt that they shared the strategy of Fr. Monchanin. The cat has now 
been brought out of the bag by no less a person than Raimundo 


Panikkar, the guru of the current mission strategy in India. Speaking 
at a seminar in Lyons, France, held on April 5-7, 1995, he said, 
“Monchanin is, with Le Saux, the founder of Shantivanam. 
Shantivanam lives on today in the tradition of the Trinity transmitted 
by its two founders and the last guru of the ashram. Father Bede 
Griffiths’ {Bulletin of the Abhishiktananda Society, No. 17, January 
1996, p. 115). 

- Strictly speaking, ‘Om’ is not a symbol but a mantra. It has, 
however, become one in usage over the last 20-30 years to identify 
Hinduism. 


20 

A Hornet’s Nest 

One wonders whether it is a virtue or vice, but the Christian 
missionaries have been and remain compulsive record-keepers and plan- 
publishers. By now there are literally hundreds of thousands of 
publications providing details of what the Christian missions did or plan to 
do, where, to whom, in which manner and with what resources in money 
and manpower. “Each year,” says a recent publication on the subject, 
“some 10,000 new books and articles on mission and evangelization are 
published, involving seventy or so major languages.”- Besides, we have 
well-researched and thoroughly documented studies produced mostly by 
Western scholars, many of them believing Christians, on the spread of 
Christianity in the past. The story is blood-soaked. In America, Asia and 
Africa, Christianity has been an unashamed and active accomplice of 
Western imperialism. 

The pious Christians who read this material do not question the validity 
of the Christian Mission. 

Nor do they bother their conscience with the morality of means 
employed by the soldiers of Christ. All they notice and care for is that so 
many heathens were ‘saved’ in the past and are expected to be ‘saved’ in 
the future. It never occurs to them that the heathens may question the 
validity of the Christian Mission itself and/or find fault with the means 
employed. 

They have a stock and ready reply to such questioning and objections: 
“According to our scriptures which are inspired, our divine saviour 
commanded us to teach and preach, and we cannot disobey him.” 

Now, anybody is 

free to write in a book what he pleases; all it costs is paper and ink. 


He is also free to believe that whatever has been written comes from a 
divine source; all he needs is renunciation of reason and a large dose of 
credulity, Again, he is free to convince himself that he is the better person 
and in a position to teach others; all he needs is self-righteousness 
combined with a certain amount of dense smugness. The trouble arises 
when he expects the others to agree with him and let him mount an 
aggression. 

The Oxford University Press had published in 1982 the World 
Christian Encyclopaedia edited by David B. Barrett, “an ordained 
missionary of the Church of England, served 29 years in Africa, since 1970 
an Anglican research officer.” Ram Swamp reviewed this book in The 
Times of India dated 14 July 1985 

under the caption ‘Thy Kingdom in the Third World’ .- He gave credit 
to Dr. Barrett for being “a quantifier and statistician par excellence “ 
because “since the beginning of Christianity, every soul, dead and living, 
has been accounted for” and “a statistical picture of the Last Day of 
Judgement, of the souls that will be finally saved and finally damned” has 
been provided. But he refused to accept Dr. Barrett as “an impartial 
historian or a disinterested philosopher” because “he looks at everything 
from a missionary viewpoint.” He cited the facts and figures compiled by 
Dr. Barrett to show how “the poor countries of the Third World which have 
been politically dominated till recently continue to be the special targets of 
missionary activities.” The missions, he said, were concentrating on Third 
World countries because Christianity was losing heavily in Europe, North 
America, Australia and New Zealand. Dr. Barrett had tried to cover up this 
retreat at home and aggression elsewhere by stating that “the centre of 
gravity of Christianity is shifting from Europe and America to the Third 
World.” 

Christian readers of the newspaper were shocked. This was certainly a 
novel way of looking at the Christian missions. Hitherto the prevalent 
Hindu fashion had been to applaud the missions for the “great educational, 
medical and humanitarian services rendered by them.” That is how Mother 
Teresa had been made into a myth. One could, of course, add in a footnote 
that it would have been better if the missions had done “all that splendid 


work without attempts at conversion.” The missions disavowed this 
“undeserved accusation” and the “controversy” stood closed. This time, 
however, a dialogue looked like taking off. Only The Times of India editor 
did not allow it. Instead he published a few articles in praise of the 
Christian missions in order to redress the balance. 

A dialogue in 

the columns of The Times of India, however, developed when Ram 
Swamp reviewed on March 13-14,1988 another Christian publication. 
Mission Handbook: North American Ministries Overseas, published in the 

U.S.A. 

in 1986. The review was captioned ‘Christianity for Export: God’s 
Legionaries’ and consisted for the most part of facts and figures which 
were given in the publication and which told their own story.- It quoted 
towards the end another publication (1980) in which a Christian 
missionary had asked the question as to why the missions had failed with 
the Buddhists of Burma and the Hindus of India when a single missionary 
had succeeded in converting 7000 animistic Karens within a few years. 
Ram Swamp posed a counter-question: “Thanks to the powerful 
missionary lobby in the United Nations, its universal declaration of human 
rights (1948) states that every individual has a right to embrace the religion 
or belief of his choice. But is there to be no charter that declares that 
countries and cultures and peoples of tolerant philosophies and religions 
who believe in live and let live, too, have a right of protection against 
aggressive, systematic proselytising? Are its well-drilled legionaries to 
have a free field?” Little did he know that he had raised a hornet’s nest as 
was evident from the Christian response published by The Times of India. 

In his letter 

published on April 1,1988, Mr. Kuruvilla Chandy of Lucknow doubted 
“whether quotations have been verbatim and entire” and regretted that “it 
is also not clear in all cases what are the sources of the various ‘facts and 
figures’ 


given.” He said that Christian missions need not “take cover under the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights” because “there exists a 
fundamental right to propagate one’s faith.” The Constitution of India, he 
said, had also guaranteed this fundamental right in its Article 25. Religious 
proselytisation, he pointed out, was no different from that which “is 
constantly taking place in the realm of politics and commerce” where “the 
use of fraud is proverbial and even considered normal.” He also accused 
the Government of India of practising proselytisation in favour of 
Hinduism by refusing to extend to the converts from scheduled castes and 
tribes the reservations and concessions that they enjoyed so long as they 
remained Hindus .- 

In another letter published on the same date, Fr. L. F. Jose of New 
Delhi was “constrained to disagree with the tone and aim of the articles.” 
He accused the reviewer of having “conveniently forgotten the fact that 
Christianity is an Oriental religion and Christ and his disciples were 
Oriental Jews.” He asserted that “Christianity came to India even before 
Europe had heard about it” 

and that “the St. Thomas Christians of Kerala have a two-thousand 
year old history.” Moreover, the latter-day Catholic and Protestant 
missionaries had “realised their folly and the thrust today is on 
‘inculturation,’ etc.” 

Mr. K. N. Ninan 

of Bombay did not bother about facts or figures or logic. He went 
straight into the motives of the reviewer and pleaded against publication of 
such articles. “Mr. Ram Swarup’s articles on Christianity,” he said in his 
letter published on April 4, “show that he has an axe to grind against 
Christians and Christianity. This has also been evident from his previous 
regular, if sporadic, Christian-baiting treatises published in your daily. 

How can you afford to waste such precious space on crass irreverence born 
of frustration by a confirmed Christian-hater? Does this not amount to 
alienating the peaceful Christian community which has been doing 
invaluable work in the fields of education, medical care and social welfare, 
and which work has profited mainly the majority community?”- 


In his letter 


published on April 7, Mr. John Vallamattam, President, Indian Catholic 
Press Association, found it painful that such articles should be published 
“at a time when there is so much talk of the need for communal harmony 
and inter-religious collaboration.” He, however, granted goodwill to the 
writer out of “Christian charity” and hoped that the article would “help 
Christian communities to rid themselves of whatever is questionable in 
them.” He promised to bring the article “to the attention of the concerned 
authorities in the Churches.” 

In his letter 

published on April 8, Mr. K. C. Thomas of Mugma (Bihar) accused the 
reviewer of having “collected a lot of questionable data in support of his 
view.” 

The review was likely to find support among the “communal elements” 
in the majority community. “Export-oriented enterprises,” he said, “are 
favoured by the government. Would our learned columnist be satisfied if 
the same export policy was enforced in the cases of Christianity and/or 
other minority religions in India? It might please the majority 
fundamentalist who cries wolf saying ‘Hinduism is in danger’.” 

It was perhaps 

in keeping with the promise made by Mr. John Vallamattam that Mr. T. 
C. 


Joseph wrote an article, ‘Is Christianity to Blame?’, which was 
published on April 9. He thought that while Ram Swarup was “generous 
with statistics” 

his knowledge of Indian Church history was inadequate. The Church in 
India had not been helped by the British rulers who had “adhered to a strict 
policy of religious neutrality.” It was not Ram Swamp’s business to 
sympathise with the Latin Americans for the loss of their ancient faiths; the 
Latin Americans knew better what was good for them. The 6.2 million 



converts made in Africa every year was “no big number in a land of 500 
million people.” Nor was it significant that Hindus and Janis had lost 
324,500 members to Christianity between 1970 and 1980; if Christianity 
was to make headway in India, it needed 15 million converts every year for 
the next hundred years. Christianity could not be blamed if “many of the 
lower castes” found in it “the opportunity to opt for a religion that freed 
them from the stigmas that stuck.”- To see a Christian missionary behind 
“a separatist movement somewhere in the country is only a search for 
scapegoats.” Mother Teresa and the missionary organisations had “to elicit 
compassion and solicit funds” by advertisements in the Western media 
because “India or, for that matter, any country in the Third World” was not 
“competent enough to look after its poor, sick or illiterate.” The argument 
that “these services help in evangelisation” 

was “wafer-thin.” He suspected that Ram Swarup had read “anti- 
Christian” 

books. He concluded by advising Ram Swarup “to search for the truth, 
and nothing but the truth, and read books of a different kind which too 
abound.” 

In his letter 

published on April 13, Mr. C. J. Chadwin of Chandigarh expressed 
“dismay at your editorial policy in allowing the publication of a skimpy 
and irresponsible article.” He said that “two odd quotations lifted out of 
context from the Bible cannot purport to be the full and exact position of 
the Church universal.” 

He admitted that in the past imperialistic powers had misused the 
Christian missions to serve their own interests. But that did not mean that 
“the basic aim of the missionaries worldwide and that of the Christian faith 
is to subdue peoples and cultures.” The Church was actively involved in 
the “liberation of people in South America from dictatorships, in South 
Africa from the racist white regime and all over the world in liberation 
struggles of socially and economically oppressed people.” Mother Teresa 
“never sought funds for conversion.” She was only showing the “love of 


God in that dying and destitute whom we throw on the streets may have a 
chance to live and die with dignity. 

A Muslim from 

Indonesia, Mr. Ishtiyaque Danish, joined the dialogue at this stage. In 
his letter published on April 13, he said that Ram Swamp’s article had 
“failed to throw enough light on how the huge amount of money is being 
used by the Christian missionaries.” He continued, “No religion in the 
world permits or encourages its adherents to buy converts to their faith. 

But this is precisely what the Christian missionaries have been doing 
across the globe... I have no firm evidence if missionaries are involved in 
conversion-by-dollar business in India but this method is being practised in 
Indonesia on a wide scale. In an article contributed to a Christian-Muslim 
dialogue consultation held in 1976, Prof. Muhammed Rasjidi had remarked 
that ‘the Church distributes rice, clothes and money among the poor people 
and uses these things to bring them closer to their mission. The Church 
lends money or natural manures and seeds to impoverished peasants on 
condition that they send their children to missionary schools... Distribution 
of water pumps, seeds of cloves and coconuts etc. is also being used to 
serve the same purpose... They (missionaries) shower gifts and provide 
certain facilities to isolated tribes. Then they put up a show of a census and 
ask these people to get themselves registered as Christians.’” 

In a joint letter published on April 18, five Hindu readers from Delhi 
commented that none of the Christian correspondents had “controverted 
his [Ram Swamp’s] data or argument or even kept to the subject”; instead, 
all of them had indulged in “irrelevant claims and unfounded allegations.” 
They found Ram Swamp “highly informative and full of perspective.” He 
embodied, they said, “a rare phenomenon in Indian journalism, indeed, on 
the Indian scene.” He was “no hater of Christians.” What had disturbed 
“certain well-organised, highly articulate and influential but hostile 
quarters” was the fact that he was “no hater of India and its age-long 
culture and religion and history.” 

He had, however, “a vast audience which benefits by his writings and 
welcomes them.” They looked forward to reading him more often in the 


columns of The Times of India. 


Another letter 

published on the same day was from Harish Chandra of Delhi who said 
that history offered evidence opposite to the claims made by the Christian 
correspondents. 

He cited Pitrim Sorokin who had said, “During the past few centuries 
the most belligerent, the most aggressive, the most rapacious, the most 
power-drunk section of humanity has been precisely the Christian western 
world. During these centuries western Christendom has invaded all other 
continents; its armies followed by its priests and merchants have 
subjugated, robbed or pillaged most of the non-Christians. Native 
American, African, Australian, Asiatic populations have been subjugated 
to this peculiar brand of Christian ‘love’ which has generally manifested 
itself in pitiless destruction, enslavement, coercion, destruction of the 
cultural values, institutions, the way of life of the victims and the spread of 
alcoholism, venereal disease, commercial cynicism and the like.” Small 
wonder, said Harish Chandra, that Christianity “was now trying to deny its 
imperialist link and claim for itself a brand-new identity.” 

Simultaneously, 

Anna Sujatha Mathai of Delhi called Ram Swamp’s article “amazingly 
small-minded” 

and “petty visioned.” She wondered why it had been given “the 
importance and space it did get.” She claimed that Christianity stood for 
“loving your neighbour as yourself’ while such articles “only add fuel to 
the already raging fires of violence and hate.” She hoped that “Ram 
Swamp, a Christian hater, may like St. Paul who also hated Christians, one 
day be forced to face the blinding, dazzling tmth of Christ’s compassionate 
love.” 

Mr. S. G. Mampilli of Delhi said in his letter published on April 19, 
that the Constitution of India which gave protection to the Christian 
missions for propagating their faith had given the same right to the Hindus. 



Hindus, however, “are not willing to make sacrifices for sharing the 
treasures of their religion with people of other religions.” Missionary work, 
according to him, was “a holy vocation for people who willingly choose it 
on the basis of their life-long commitment to chastity, the spirit of 
obedience and poverty which they joyfully accept and maintain till death.” 
Christ had suffered and died and risen again from the dead “so that sinners 
may be saved from the circle of births, ‘Punarjanm’, as it is called in 
Hinduism.” Ram Swamp had “intentionally ignored the positive side” in 
his “anxiety to expose the negative side of missionary work.” Christianity 
had “an import aspect” 

besides its “export aspect.” The people of India imported Christianity 
because “they were not satisfied with social evils like the caste system, 
untouchability, sati, child marriage, backwardness of women and so on 
which have no sanction in Christianity.” 

In his letter 

published on April 25, Judah S. G. Vincent of Delhi found Ram 
Swamp very successful “as a Christian baiter.” He saw in Ram Swamp a 
“putative scholar” 

who had written a “one-sided article on what is obviously esoteric 
material” 

published by the “U.S. based Christian organisation World VisionT 

Christianity, he said, had a message for “a caste-ridden, superstition- 
bound, self-flagellating society.” The missionaries were delivering that 
message through “their efforts at education, medicare and the like.” Mr. 
Danish was right in saying that “it is abominable to buy converts.” But he 
should know that “quite often the missionaries feel the need to support the 
nascent Christians materially for the reason that indigent people from the 
backward classes lose their special privileges under the constitution the 
moment they shift their allegiance to Christ.” Thus, Mr. Vincent confirmed 
what Mr. Danish had only suspected. 


Finally, in an 



article published on May 3, Mr. Sarto Esteves advised that “one should 
not go to a commercial handbook or a money-spinning publication to know 
the doctrine and teaching of Christ.” Christianity should be learnt from the 
Bible where Christ himself was speaking to mankind. India should be glad 
that she had a Church organisation of 120 dioceses “manned by full- 
blooded, highly patriotic sons of India as bishops” and topped by two 
Cardinals. 

“Over 12,000 male priests and 50,000 religious women were running 
“institutes of higher learning, colleges, schools, hospitals, dispensaries, 
houses for the aged, the dying, the deserted and the rejected, orphanages, 
leprosaria, and asylums, to mention only a few.” Liberation theology was 
being misunderstood. It only meant what Christ taught his followers long 
ago, namely, “to feed the hungry, clothe the naked, shelter the homeless, 
love one’s enemies, offer the other cheek also to the one who strikes you.”- 
This was the mission which “a minority which comprises 1.7 per cent of 
the total population of India” had undertaken. 

Ram Swamp considered the points raised by the Christians and wrote a 
reply, ‘Proselytisation as it is Practised’, which was published in two 
installments on May 23-24. 

“I did not realise,” he said, “I was stirring a hornet’s nest in reviewing 
the Mission Handbook. It invoked many rejoinders, most of them harsh. It 
helps inter-faith dialogue which the Church has recently invited.” He found 
it interesting, though novel, that Mr. Kumvilla Chandy had compared 
Christian proselytisation with proselytisation in politics. That is exactly 
what it was, with the difference that the Church had “always regarded it as 
a one-way traffic.” It was to be remembered that so long as the Church was 
powerful, the penalty for renouncing Christianity was death. 

“Perhaps a creed,” 

continued Ram Swarup, “is best known by what it does when its holds 
political sway.” He went on to cite some instances of what Christianity had 
done in Rome, Great Britain, Germany, Baltic countries, Mexico, etc. It 
was, therefore, wrong for Mr. Chandy to regard Christian proselytisation as 
“normal to life” because it was “a bigoted idea, a denial of God and his 


working in others.” Mahatma Gandhi thought it to be “the deadliest poison 
that ever sapped the fountain of truth” and saw “no spiritual merit” in 
professional missionaries. In fact, for Gandhiji a missionary was “like any 
vender of goods”; he wanted to stop proselytisation by legislation. 

“Social work” 

by Christian missions, said Ram Swamp, had become a myth and had 
to be examined. He cited how American Capuchin monks had seen 
“spiritual advantages of famine and cholera” which brought to the missions 
many orphans. They were immediately baptised so that “baptismal water 
flows in streams, and the starving little tots fly in masses to heaven.” Many 
of them did not survive. The book, India and its Missions, had stated 
clearly that “a hospital is a readymade congregation; there is no need to go 
into the highways and hedges and ‘compel them to come in’.” The 
Christian doctors and nurses were known for employing many subterfuges 
“with perfect satisfaction” 

in order to convert those who went to mission hospitals. 



Apart from what 


missionary services were used for, the more important point was “who 
pays for these services.” Ram Swarup cited Bishop Stephen Neil who had 
written after examining missionary education that “about a third of the cost 
of education was borne by private agencies, two-thirds by the 
Government.” 

The Bishop had also observed that “even in independent India... the 
old order has continued without radical modification.” So the Indians were 
paying not only for “missionary services” but also for maintaining the 
missionary apparatus which was used for converting them. 

Much was being 

made of the “sacrifices” of the missionaries and “their love for Jesus 
and the natives in choosing their career.” This was nothing more than 
“image-building” 

so that missionaries could become acceptable. The fact, however, was 
that the missions offered “a lucrative career” and people who joined them 
did so “in order to improve their social and financial status.” Bishop Neil 
had observed that “missionaries of the last century were over-dressed and 
by the standard of the time lived in luxury, their stipend being £2000/- 

a year,” while a great classical scholar and Regius Professor of Greek 
at Oxford, Benjamin Jowett, earned only £ 54/- a year in 1855-56. 

Coming to mission finances. Ram Swarup said that Europe and 
America had remained the paymasters. 

The only difference was the recent policy of sending “more cash and 
less people.” The new policy worked for economy as well as effectivity. 
The native missionary cost far less than his European or American 
counterpart and was less conspicuous. But he was also much more fanatic. 
“Not many white missionaries could outdo their brown counterparts.” A 



Christian missionary of Indian origin but working in South Africa had 
written to President Botha that “the country would lose God’s divine 
protection if Hinduism were allowed to flourish.” 

Ram Swarup found 

it difficult to understand why Christians felt hurt if Mother Teresa was 
viewed as just another missionary working for the promotion of 
Christianity. 

There was little doubt that she was “a true daughter of the Church in 
having her mind and heart closed to the religions of the countries of her 
labour and even adaptation.” The other day when she was visiting the 
Vatican some Europeans wanted her to tell them about Vedanta as she was 
living in India. 

She had rebuked them for “betraying Christ.” A comparison of her 
ways with those of Sister Nivedita told the truth. Sister Nivedita had 
helped India to “rediscover herself.” She had given “national pride” to the 
Indian people. 

Mother Teresa, on the other hand, was never tired of presenting India 
as a land of poverty, disease and death. That was why the West was 
heaping her with money and honour. Sister Nivedita, “was not even 
remembered in the West, although the social work she did in the field of 
education, childcare and poor relief was no less commendable.” 

Ram Swarup saw 

no sense in the Christian hope that like St. Paul he might also stop 
being a “hater of Christians” and come to the “dazzling truth of Christ’s 
compassionate love.” He was no “hater of Christians.” He was only asking 
them to look at their religion a little more critically and evaluate it in a 
more humane manner. Nor was St. Paul known for “compassionate love.” 
Conversion to Christianity had made him “a greater persecutor, on a larger 
scale and a menace for centuries to come for other religions of the world.” 
A wish for anyone to emulate St. Paul should not be expressed even by 
one’s enemy. 



Ram Swamp had 


been accused of reading “endless number of books available with an 
anti-Christian view” and advised to “read books of a different kind.” He 
said he was “hardly aware of any anti-Christian books.” On the other hand, 
he had read “the Bible, early Christian Fathers, Christian Catechisms, 
Christian encyclopaedias, Christian directories, orthodox accounts of 
Christian missionary activities, histories of Protestantism and the Catholic 
Church held in high esteem by them [the Christians].” He had found this 
literature “consistently anti-pagan” 

and did not know “what to think of a religion which teaches in and 
through its scriptures and its other literature written by its most devout, 
scholarly and pious sections such systematic hatred of all other religion, 
and believes in a divine injunction to supplant them.” 

Christians, said 

Ram Swamp, should not divide books on Christianity in only two 
categories - pro-Christian and anti-Christian. There was a third category 
consisting of “critical and historical studies of the Bible and Christianity.” 
They were “the most durable and solid” and had “proved the most 
damaging to Christianity.” Similarly, “the work of scientists like 
Copernicus, Galileo, Linaeus, Buffon, Laplace, Lyell, Darwin and others” 
undermined the structure of Christian thought” which had a “limited 
conception of the universe.” 

What, however, proved most subversive for Christianity was the 
“West’s discovery of the East.” Science had only discredited the dogmas of 
“virgin birth, resurrection and miracles.” Eastern spirituality discredited 
“sole sonship, single revelation, special covenants, proxy atonement, 
exclusive salvation, chosen fraternity, single life, authorised saviours and 
mediators, etc.” The deeper Western thinker and seeker had found 
“inferiority, transcendence and universality” in Eastern thought. He had 
found in Eastern spirituality “not commandments of some arbitrary deity 
but truths of his own innermost being” and the “principle of tolerance, 
coexistence, benevolence and reverence which was new to him.” 



This particular 

dialogue came to a close with Ram Swarup’s rejoinder. But only for the 
time being. It is bound to be resumed again and again till Christian 
theologians give up the dogma that Christianity holds a monopoly of truth 
and Christian missions stop the subversion of other religions and cultures 
in the name of ‘Christian compassion’. 

It may be noted 

that some of the Christian correspondents objected to Ram Swarup’s 
article being published in The Times of India. The plea sounds strange, to 
say the least. The Christians in this country own and control a large-sized 
press which includes several daily newspapers and many periodicals. The 
language which is used in this media vis-a-vis Hinduism is not always 
decorous; quite often, it is intemperate. Besides, the Christians get ample 
space in the press which is supposed to be owned and controlled by the 
Hindus. 

It is only once in a while that an article critical, of Christian dogmas 
and/or missions, gets through. That, too, when the editor concerned finds 
that the facts cited and the conclusions drawn deserve the attention of his 
countrymen. The Christians who object to such articles being published at 
all have to think calmly and coolly whether their attitude reflects tolerance 
or otherwise. They have been telling us for many years now that they want 
and are prepared for a dialogue. We hope that the word “dialogue” 

in their current dictionary does not mean a monologue, as it did in past. 

Footnotes: 

- David B. Barrett and James W. Reapsome, Seven Hundred Plans 
to Evangelize the World, Birmingham, Alabama, U.S.A., 1988. 

- The review article is included in Catholic Ashrams, Sannyasins 
or Swindlers?, New Delhi, 1994, Appendix III, pp. 215-23. 


32. 


- The review article is included in Ibid., as Appendix IV, pp. 224- 


- While converting Hindus from scheduled castes and tribes, the 
Christian plea was that the ‘Hindu caste system’ did not allow them to 
improve their social and economic status. But the converts found out 
very soon that conversion to Christianity had in no way improved 
their position. In fact, they found themselves in a worse plight after 
leaving their ancestral society. The Christian missionaries forgot their 
earlier cliches about the ‘Hindu caste system keeping some castes and 
tribes down and out’. They started a campaign that the benefits of 
reservations and the rest available to Hindu Harijans should be 
extended to ‘Christian Harijans’ as well. The campaign is bearing 
fruit. According to The Times of India dated 28 August 1995, “A 
consesus among political parties is emerging in favour of reservations 
for the 12 million dalits who form over a half of the country’s 
Christian population and the government of India is under increasing 
pressure to amend Para Three of Presidential order of 1950...” 

- The plea that information which is inconvenient to Christianity 
should not be published comes easily to Christian scribes and 
scholars. Christianity has had a long history of suppressing freedom 
of expression, and criminal persecution of those who do not toe the 
line of this or that church. In fact, the Christian bark becomes all the 
more ferocious if this part of Christianity’s dark history is brought to 
public notice. It is very difficult for minds trained in totalitarian ways 
to appreciate facts and figures which go against their case. They do 
not like it at all that the skeletons in their cupboard be brought out and 
exposed to public gaze. 

- See footnote 4 above about the lower caste converts being 
‘freed’ from the stigmas sticking to them while they were members of 
Hindu society. 

It is not unoften that ‘Christian Harijans’ are seen taking out 
demonstrations in protest against their plight in the various Christian 


churches. They held a demonstration when the Pope visited Madras in 
1986. 

- Christians never ask or allow to be asked the basic question as to 
how the people in Asia, Africa and South America became socially 
and economically depressed or the destitutes whom Mother Teresa is 
trying to ‘help’. But history tells us that these people who were free 
and prosperous were reduced to this state by Western Imperialism of 
which the Christian missions were the most willing and vociferous 
accomplices everywhere. Break a person’s bones and then come back 
with bandages and some gruel - that is the logic. 

Mother Teresa happens to be the foremost in this dirty and 
despicable Christian game. 

- The salesmen of ‘Liberation Theology’ never tell us that Jesus 
Christ himself sold his own brother, Judas Thomas, as “a slave skilled 
in carpentry”, and that all Christian churches in Europe, Africa and 
the Americas were actively involved in slave trade till the early years 
of the nineteenth century. 


21 

Exploding a Mischievous Myth 


The history of Christianity, crowded as it is with crimes of the most 
horrendous kind, provides a running commentary on the Christian 
doctrine. And the biggest share in Christian crimes down the centuries can 
safely be alloted to the Roman Catholic Church, its head, its hierarchy, its 
theologians, its religious orders, and its missionaries. 

There is, however, one criminal field in which the Roman Catholic 
Church has remained unrivalled. No other Christian denomination - these 
are as many as 23,000 of them comes anywhere near the Roman Catholic 
Church when it concerns committing of blatant forgeries and foisting of 
pious frauds. It is no exaggeration to say that starting with Jesus Christ, the 
entire doctrinal and institutional edifice of Catholicism rests on a series of 
staggering swindles. 

The Roman Catholic Church in India has remained true to the 
tradition. The literature it has produced during the last five centuries is full 
of lies of the filthiest sort, not only about Hindu religion and culture but 
also about its own ‘religion’ and role. And this garbage heap is topped by 
the hoax about the so-called St. Thomas. 

We are told by Catholic ‘historians’ that Judas Thomas, a brother as 
well as an apostle of Jesus Christ, had landed in Malabar in 52 AD, 
founded the Syrian Christian Church, and travelled to Tamil Nadu for 
spreading the Good News when he was killed by the ‘wily Brahmins’ in 
72 AD at the Big Mount (now called St. Thomas Mount) near Madras at 
the behest of a Hindu king named Mahadevan. The San Thome Cathedral 
on the beach in Mylapore is built on the spot where the saint is supposed to 
have been buried. This spot, like many others of the same spurious sort, 
has become a place of Christian pilgrimage not only for the flock in India 
but also for the pious Christians from abroad. 

I had examined the story of St. Thomas in 1986 when I wrote a book 
on the Papacy during the Pope’s visit to India.-1 had discovered that while 
some Christian historians doubted the very existence of an apostle named 


St. Thomas, some others had denied credibility to the Acts of Thomas, an 
apocryphal work, on which the whole story is based. Even those Christian 
historians, who had accepted the fourth century Catholic tradition about 
the travels of St. Thomas, had pointed out the utter lack of evidence that he 
ever went beyond Ethiopia or Arabia Eelix. The confusion, according to 
them, had arisen because these countries were often mistaken for India by 
ancient geographers of the Graeco-Roman world. 

I had also cited Bishop Stephen Neill who had spent many years in 
South India and who had examined the St. Thomas story as late as 1984. 
“A number of scholars,” wrote Neill, “among whom are to be mentioned 
with respect Bishop A.E. Medlycott, J.N. Earquhar and Jesuit Dahlman, 
have built on slender foundations what can only be called Thomas 
romances, such as reflect vividness of their imagination rather than the 
prudence of historical critics.”- And pained by the spread of spurious 
history he had observed: “Millions of Christians in India are certain that 
the founder of their church was none other than the apostle Thomas 
himself. The historian cannot prove it to them that they are mistaken in 
their belief. He may feel it right to warn them that historical research 
cannot pronounce on the matter with a confidence equal to that which they 
entertain by faith 

Next, I had raised a question: “What difference does it make whether 
Christianity came to India in the first or the fourth century? Why raise such 
a squabble when no one denies that the Syrian Christians of Malabar are 
old immigrants to this country?” I had also answered the question: “The 
matter, however, is not so simple as it sounds at first. Nor can the scholarly 
exercise be understood easily by those who have not been initiated in the 
intricacies of Catholic theology.” The motives for manufacturing the myth 
were also detailed by me as follows: 

Eirstly, it is one thing for some Christian refugees to come to a 
country and build some churches, and quite another for an apostle of 
Jesus Christ himself to appear in flesh and blood for spreading the 
Good News. If it can be established that Christianity is as ancient in 
India as the prevailing forms of Hinduism, no one can nail it as an 
imported creed brought in by Western imperialism.- 


Secondly, the Catholic Church in India stands badly in need of a 
spectacular martyr of its own. Unfortunately for it, St. Francis Xavier 
died a natural death and that, too, in a distant place. Hindus, too, have 
persistently refused to oblige the Church in this respect in spite of all 
provocations. The Church has had to use its own resources and churn 
out something. St. Thomas about whom nobody knows anything, 
offers a ready-made martyr. 

Thirdly, the Catholic Church can malign the Brahmins more 
confidently. Brahmins have been the main target of its attack from the 
very beginning. Now it can be shown that the Brahmins have always 
been a vicious brood, so much so that they would not stop from 
murdering a holy man who was only telling God’s own truth to a 
tormented people. At the same time, the religion of the Brahmins can 
be held responsible for their depravity. 

Fourthly, the Catholics in India need no more feel uncomfortable 
when faced with historical evidence about their Church’s close 
cooperation with the Portuguese pirates in committing abominable 
crimes against the Indian people. The commencement of the Church 
can be disentangled from the advent of the Portuguese by dating the 
Church to a distant past. The Church was here long before the 
Portuguese arrived. It was a mere coincidence that the Portuguese 
also called themselves Catholics. Guilt by association is groundless. 

Lastly, it is quite within the ken of Catholic theology to claim that 
a land which has been honoured by the visit of an apostle has become 
the patrimony of the Catholic Church. India might have been a Hindu 
homeland from times immemorial. But since that auspicious moment 
when St. Thomas stepped on her soil, the Hindu claim stands 
cancelled. The country has belonged to the Catholic Church from the 
first century onwards, no matter how long the Church takes to 
conquer it completely for Christ .- 

But the leviathan which had ignored the serious doubts expressed by 
renowned Christian historians could not be expected to take notice of what 
an almost unknown Hindu had to say on the subject of St. Thomas. The 
Catholic Church in India went on spreading the myth merrily. Meanwhile, 


the Liberation Theology of the Church had added a new dimension to it. 
St. Thomas started being sold not only as the first founder of Christianity 
in India but also as the first to proclaim a new social message in this 
country. The Express Weekend of Madras dated 30 December 1989 
presented this new portrait of the ancient Christian saint in an article 
written by C. A. Simon under the title, Tn Memory of A Slain Saint’. 

Besides providing the standard Catholic ‘history’ of St. Thomas and 
the cathedral at Mylapore, the article struck the following new note: “St. 
Thomas spent the last part of his life in Madras preaching the Gospel. A 
large number of people listened and embraced the way of life preached by 
him. The oppressed and down-trodden followed him and claimed equal 
status in society as it was denied them by the prevailing social norms. He 
condemned untouchability and attempted to restore equal status to 
women.” (Emphasis added). 

The Christian scribe had written with great confidence because similar 
stuff, presented in a plethora of books as well as the popular press, had 
passed off without being challenged. He was not aware that Hindu scholars 
had started examining Christian claims about Christian doctrines and 
Christian saints, as also Christian calumny about Hinduism, Hindu society, 
Hindu culture, and Hindu history.- Nor did the editor of the Express 
Weekend, a Hindu by accident of birth, anticipate the spate of letters and 
articles which he soon had on his desk from knowledgeable Hindus. He 
did his best to suppress the true facts about the so-called St. Thomas and 
his so-called tomb at Mylapore. 

The first Hindu salvo came from Ishwar Sharan of Madras. In a letter 
to the Weekend Express he pointed out what Christian historians such as R. 
Garbe, A. Harnack and E. de la Vallee-Poussin had stated long ago about 
the spurious character of the Acts of St. Thomas. He also cited Bishop 
Stephen Neill’s warning to Christians against accepting the St. Thomas 
story as serious history. But what was more significant, he made known for 
the first time to the lay readers that the “St. Thomas Church stands on the 
ruins of a Jain Neminathaswami temple and a Hindu Shiva temple which 
had a Nataraja shrine attached.” The fact that Jain and Shiva temples stood 
at the site where the St. Thomas church stands now, stated Ishwar Sharan, 


was vouchsafed by inscriptions discovered in the church compound and 
recorded in a scholarly book, Jain Inscriptions in Tamil Nadu, compiled by 
A. Ekambarnath and C. K. Sivaprakasam and published from Madras in 
1987. In another book, Indiavil Saint Thomas Kattukkadai written in Tamil 
by Ved Prakash and published from Madras in 1989, the Shiva temple that 
existed at Mylapore before it was replaced by the St. Thomas church, had 
been identified with the original Kapaliswara temple. 

The Weekend Express published this letter in its issue of 13 January 
1990 but suppressed its first and last paras. The first para had expressed 
astonishment that the ''Indian Express allows its respected columns to be 
used to promote this Catholic romance as historical fact in this age of 
excellent and critical scholarship.” The last para was about the two temples 
replaced by the St. Thomas church and the evidence from the inscriptions 
and Ved Prakash’s book. This censorship was applied in spite of the fact 
that the Weekend Express had before it Ved Prakash’s book which the 
author had sent to the weekly for review several months before C.A. 
Simon’s article was flashed on its front page. 

So Ishwar Sharan wrote a letter of protest on 16 January 1990 and sent 
it to the resident editor of the Indian Express in Madras. He pointed out 
how his letter had been truncated by a paper which had ‘given prime 
space’ to a Catholic apologist to “tell his version, of a controversial story.” 
He brought to the resident editor’s notice the articles which had been 
published earlier in the Indian Express about the destruction of Hindu 
temples by Muslims and that of some Jain and Buddhist temples by certain 
Hindu kings, and saw no reason why “Christians have escaped this review 
though they were the worst perpetrators of these kinds of deeds.” He also 
pointed out that though Ved Prakash had sent as many as four copies of his 
book to the Express Weekend, the latter had not even acknowledged it in 
the “books received” column, not to speak of reviewing the scholarly 
study. Einally, he asked the resident editor that “when the Pope in Rome 
can no longer enforce the Index, how is it that the Indian Express can 
censor our reading material, obstruct a free access to information, and 
suppress discussion of a subject because it is controversial?” 



The resident editor did not acknowledge this letter. And the Indian 
Express dated 29 January 1990 published on its city page an article, 
‘Madras - City Of Neglect’, by Harry Miller denouncing the American 
evangelists for “disfiguring the city walls with their offensive posters” but 
repeating the St. Thomas story. Miller had reminded the Americans that 
“the very first evangelist - one Thomas by name - landed on our shores 
within a few years of the Crucifixion, some five centuries before America 
was ‘discovered’” and that “we have never needed another.” Ishwar 
Sharan wrote another letter to the Indian Express stating the facts which he 
had presented to the Express Weekend in his letter of January 13 and 
adding some more. He mailed a copy of it to Harry Miller as well. The 
Indian Express did not publish the letter. Nor did Harry Miller 
acknowledge or respond to it. 

But Ishwar Sharan had taken care to circulate his 13 January letter 
among a number of Hindu scholars in Madras and elsewhere. Some of 
these scholars also wrote letters to the Express Weekend presenting the 
same facts in their own individual ways. They seemed to have forced the 
Express Weekend to have second thoughts on the subject. It published on 
10 February 1990 a letter from Swami Jyotirmayananda which referred to 
the Tamil inscriptions and the book by Ved Prakash and stated: “There is 
reason to believe that St. Thomas church stands on the ruins of a Jain 
Neminathaswami temple and a Shiva temple which had a Nataraja shrine 
attached.” The letter inferred correctly that the Shiva temple was the 
original Kapaliswara temple on the Mylapore beach but made a mistake in 
speculating that the original Kapaliswara temple “got eroded by the sea.” 

The mistake was corrected by Ved Prakash in a letter which the 
Express Weekend published on 3 March 1990. “Nowhere in the book,” he 
pointed out, “do I mention that the Siva temple on the Mylapore beach was 
eroded by the sea. What is mentioned about the Siva temple is as follows: 
‘...many evidences available in Santhome church show how there was a 
Siva temple and it was occupied, then step by step demolished and 
converted into a church.” in support of his case, he cited a 12th century 
Chola inscription of 8 lines “found in the Cathedral” and an established 
Hindu tradition showing that the Kapaliswara temple “was there up to the 
16th century” when the “Christians started demolishing it.” He concluded 



that the present-day Kapaliswara temple did not stand on its original site 
and was built by Hindus at its new place “out of whatever they could 
salvage from the ruins of the old temple.” 

Ved Prakash’s statement about destruction of the original Kapaliswara 
temple by Christians was confirmed by Dr. R. Nagaswamy, formerly 
Director of Archaeology, Tamil Nadu, and now Director of the Indian 
Institute of Culture in Madras. In an article, ‘Testimony to Religious 
Ethos’, published in The Hindu of 30 April 1990, he wrote: “A careful 
study of the monuments and lithic records in Madras reveals a great 
destruction caused by the Portuguese to Hindu temples in the sixteenth 
century A.D. The most important temple of Kapaleeswara lost its ancient 
building during the Portuguese devastation and was originally located near 
the Santhome cathedral... A few Chola records found in the Santhome 
cathedral and bishop’s house refer to Kapaleeswara temple and 
Poompavai. A Chola record in fragment found on the east wall of the 
Santhome cathedral refers to the image of Lord Nataraja of the 
Kapaleeswara temple. The temple was moved to the present location in the 
sixteenth century and was probably built by one Mallappa... A 
fragmentary inscription, twelfth century Chola record, in the Santhome 
church region refers to a Jain temple dedicated to Neminathaswami.” 

Meanwhile, on 9 March 1990 Ishwar Sharan had sent to the Express 
Weekend a scholarly article, ‘What the Historians Say About Saint 
Thomas’, in reply to C.A. Simon’s piece on the ‘slain saint’. It carried 
citations from several impeccable sources, literary and archaeological, 
regarding the career and character of St. Thomas, the chronology of 
Christian presence in India, and the replacement of Hindu temples by 
churches at Mylapore. The article was neither acknowledged nor returned. 
Subsequent queries regarding the fate of the article also brought no 
response. So he addressed a registered letter to the resident editor on 1 
June 1990 stating that his article had been “accepted by a respected 
publisher” to be published as book, and that “if you do not intend to 
publish the article... then the same should be indicated to me within the 
next two weeks...” The resident editor replied by a letter dated 11 June 
1990 and said: “I find that Express Weekend carried on 13th January a 
letter from you on Mr. C.A. Simon’s ‘In Memory of a Slain Saint’. We 



have also published letters from Swami Tapasyananda and Mr. Ved 
Prakash on the same subject. It is not as if, therefore, the Indian Express 
refused to give space to your point of view. The availability of space being 
a severe constraint Express Weekend finds it very difficult indeed to 
publish long articles.” 

Ishwar Sharan decided to do some plain speaking to this editor who 
had equated a brief and censored letter to the editor with a grossly 
misleading front-page article. In his letter dated 25 June 1990, he said: “So 
the truth of the matter is that you do indeed have space to promote the 
ancient lie about St. Thomas coming to India to get killed by the wicked 
Hindus and especially the very wicked Brahmins, but you do not have 
space at all in your newspaper when somebody tries to unmask the fable... 
Swami Tapasyananda did not get a letter published in the Express Weekend 
as you have stated, but has written his own article in The Vedanta Kesari ... 
What is really distressing is that you not only connive at this vicious lie 
being published in your paper to malign the Hindus but that you support it 
by suppressing the truth no matter how often or in what form it is 
presented to you.” The resident editor did not care to reply. 

Till this time, Ishwar Sharan did not know that Swami Tapasyananda 
of the Ramakrishna Mission in Madras had also sent an article to the 
Express Weekend and had received neither an acknowledgment nor a 
rejection. All he knew was that the Swami’s article, ‘The Legend of A 
Slain Saint To Stain Hinduism’, had been published in the June 1990 issue 
of The Vedanta Kesari, the monthly of the Ramakrishna Mission in 
Madras. So it was a puzzle to him as to how the resident editor’s letter had 
named Swami Tapasyananda as the writer of a letter which was never 
published. The cat came out of the bag when he referred the matter to the 
Swami, and learnt that the latter had indeed sent his article to the Express 
Weekend in the first instance. 

Swami Tapasyananda’s article being as detailed and documented as his 
own, Ishwar Sharan sent a copy of it to C.A. Simon whose address he had 
succeeded in obtaining from the Express Weekend after waiting for several 
months. The reply he received from C.A. Simon was revealing. Firstly, 
Simon disclosed the sources of his information about the story of St. 



Thomas. He referred to two modern books, a few leaflets, a stamp issued 
by the Government of India in 1972, and a speech by Dr. Rajendra Prasad, 
President of India. Secondly, he admitted that he was. no scholar of the 
subject and ‘not aware of the controversial version’ given by the other 
side. Finally, he prayed: “I learned that you are going to publish a book 
and intend to include my article as the Christian version. As I do not stand 
for any religious sect or group you may desist from doing so. Instead you 
may refer to more authoritative works on the subject if you feel so.” The 
confidence with which he had written his article was gone as soon as he 
was made to know the difference between fact and fiction. What intrigued 
Ishwar Sharan, however, was the question: How had C.A. Simon come to 
know that Ishwar Sharan’s article was going to be published as a book? 
Ishwar Sharan had not conveyed the information to him. The conclusion 
was obvious - C.A. Simon had learnt it from the resident editor of the 
Indian Express! 

But in spite of all evidence presented to it regarding the myth of St. 
Thomas, the Indian Express persisted in promoting it. On 2 August 1990, 
it published a letter from Raju Thomas, a learned Christian of Madras. The 
letter was about the plight of Scheduled Caste converts to Christianity. It 
rebuked the rich and powerful Christian Church in India for demanding 
reservations for these converts while itself doing nothing for them 
although they constituted 85 per cent of the Christian population in India. 
But it was prefaced by the old lie that Christianity had reached Kerala “in 
the first century before it went to Europe.” Ishwar Sharan wrote another 
letter to the Indian Express on 3 August 1990 stating once again the true 
facts of the case. This letter was not published. But as a copy of the letter 
had been sent by him to Raju Thomas, the latter wrote a long letter to the 
Indian Express expressing doubts about the existence of Christianity in 
India in the first century AD. Raju Thomas’ letter, too, was not published. 
Shri Ishwar Sharan came to know about it only when Raju Thomas wrote 
to him on 31 August 1990. 

“You may ask me,” said Raju Thomas in his letter to. Ishwar Sharan, 
“if such is the case why did I assert that Christianity had come to India 
before it had reached Europe? My answer to this question is that I 
deliberately wanted an open debate and discussion on this subject... We 



will be able to challenge and question such falsified histories and 
traditional beliefs only when we take up such issues to the public and do 
not keep them as the top secrets. But the question is how many of our 
‘intellectuals’ are ready to have open-minded debates and discussions?...” 
He was not quite correct in blaming the intellectuals alone. It is true that 
intellectuals who take pains to study every subject from its sources, are 
few and far between in this country. But it is also true that an intellectual 
culture cannot grow in an atmosphere where the media is controlled by 
purveyors of palpable falsehoods or bullied into abject surrender by the 
thought police of Nehruvian Secularism. 

That the intellectuals were hungry for correct information on an 
important subject, was proved when Ishwar Sharan’s book. The Myth of St. 
Thomas and the Mylapore Shiva Temple, was published by VOICE OF 
INDIA in February 1991. The book sold very fast. It was reviewed in 
leading journals and commented upon favourably by well-known scholars. 
The main chapter in the book carried Ishwar Sharan’s article submitted by 
him to the Express Weekend in reply to the one by C. A. Simon. The article 
had been expanded with additional material and informative footnotes. 
Besides, the book reproduced the articles by C. A. Simon, Swami 
Tapasyananda and Harry Miller. The letters which Ishwar Sharan had 
addressed to the Express Weekend on the subject of St. Thomas and the 
Santhome cathedral were also reproduced along with his exchanges with 
the resident editor of the Indian Express and Raju Thomas. The crowning 
piece in the book was the confession by C.A. Simon. 

The most important development, however, was the stir which the 
book caused among the intelligentsia in Madras. The intelligentsia was 
aware that Christian missionaries had been using the St. Thomas story for 
maligning Hinduism and extolling Christianity. But it was not in a position 
to develop a dialogue because it lacked the correct information and the 
proper perspective. Now it was fully equipped and could hit back. 

The International Institute of Tamil Studies, an academy sponsored and 
financed by the Government of Tamil Nadu, had published in 1985-86 a 
book titled Viviliyam, Tirukkural, Shaiva Siddhantam Oppu Ayu. The 
writer of the book was M. Deivanayakam, a Christian scholar supposed to 



be an expert on Tamil antiquities. The University of Madras had conferred 
a doctor’s degree on the author for writing this dissertation. The thesis 
propounded by him was that the ancient Tamil saint, Tiruvalluvar, had 
become a disciple of St. Thomas and converted to Christianity. Stray 
sentences had been picked up from the Tamil classic, Tirukkural, and lined 
up with stray sentences from the Bible in order to prove the point that the 
Tamil saint owed his teaching to his contact with the Christian scripture. 

Some scholars had written letters to Deivanayakam pointing out that 
his book was full of distortions and altogether misleading. But 
Deivanayakam had remained unrelenting. The Dharampuram Shaiva Math 
had invited the Christian scholar to a conference of Tamil scholars, and 
requested him to disown the thesis. He had come to the conference but 
refused to yield ground. Finally, the Math had prepared a book of 
refutation. It had been written by an eighty-five years old Tamil and Shaiva 
scholar, Arunai Vadivel Mudaliar. Ishwar Sharan’s book on St. Thomas 
came as a -shot in the arm of Mudaliar whose book was released by 
Sarojini Varadappa in a gathering of three hundred Tamil and Shaiva 
scholars held in a packed hall at Madras on 24 October 1991. 

The meeting was presided over by justice N. Krishnaswami Reddiar, a 
retired judge’ of the high court. He denounced Deivanayakam’s book as 
“trash in the name of research.” He quoted from Ishwar Sharan’s book to 
point out that “the visit of St. Thomas to India was a myth”, and wondered 
how a book like that by Deivanayakam could be published by an institute 
set up by the Government and honoured by a university with a doctorate. 
Dr. R. Nagaswami, eminent archaeologist, also censored the institute and 
the university for sponsoring a spurious thesis, and said that the St. 
Thomas story “was a ruse to spread Christianity in India.” He cited what 
he knew from his own excavations at the Santhome church. Some other 
speakers, too, took Deivanayakam to task. 

Meanwhile, Ishwar Sharan had discovered another Christian fraud. It 
came to light that Deivanayakam had collaborated with Dr. R. Arulappa, 
the Catholic Archbishop of Madras, in writing another but similar book, 
Perinbu Villakku, published in 1975. The Archbishop had also tried to 
prove that Tiruvalluvar had come in contact with St. Thomas during the 



latter’s travels in South India, and converted to Christianity. But he had 
gone much further, and forged ‘evidence’ on palm-leaf scrolls in support 
of his thesis. He had employed a Hindu scholar of Christianity, Ganesh 
Iyer, for this purpose, and paid him to the tune of 15 lakh rupees. The 
fraud had been exposed when someone put the police on the trail of 
Ganesh Iyer. The case had dragged on in the Madras metropolitan court 
from 1980 to 1986 when Ganesh Iyer was sentenced to ten months’ 
imprisonment on various counts. But Dr. Arulappa had got him acquitted 
by means of a civil suit for compromise filed in the Madras High Court at 
the same time that the criminal case was going on. Ganesh Iyer had spilled 
the beans soon after. 

Ishwar Sharan included the full story of this fraud in the revised and 
enlarged second edition of his book published by VOICE OF INDIA in 
1995. The second edition included all the material published in the first 
edition and several other very informative articles, particularly those from 
Koenraad Elst and Eeela Tampi. “What was originally an introduction to 
the study of the myth of St. Thomas and the destruction of a great Shiva 
temple” had now “begun to take the shape of a broader investigation into 
the Christian presence in India.” It carried an introduction by Koenraad 
Elst. “In Catholic universities in Europe,” wrote Elst, “the myth of the 
apostle Thomas going to India is no longer taught as history, but in India it 
is still considered useful. The important point is that Thomas can be 
upheld as a martyr and the Brahmins decried as fanatics.” 

Two conclusions emerged clearly from this particular Hindu-Christian 
encounter. Firstly, although the major print media in India is owned by 
Hindu moneybags, they have handed it over to Hindu-baiters of all sorts .- 
Secondly, there is no law in the country which can deal with intellectual 
crimes committed by Christian scribes ever so often. In fact, the existing 
law comes down heavily on those who expose those crimes; they are 
branded as Hindu communalists and accused of creating enmity between 
communities. 


Footnotes: 


- Papacy. Its Doctrine and History, Voice of India, New Delhi, 
1986. 

- Stephen Neill, History of Christianity in India: The Beginnings 
to 1707 AD, Cambridge University Press, 1984, p. 27. 

- Ibid., p. 49. 

- Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru provides an excellent example of how 
some innocents abroad lap up lies sold by powerful organizations. 
“You may be surprised to learn,” he wrote to his daughter, Indira, on 
April 12, 1932, “that Christianity came to India long before it went to 
England or Western Europe, and when even in Rome it was a 
despised and proscribed sect. Within 100 years or so of the death of 
Jesus, Christian missionaries came to South India by sea... They 
converted a large number of people” {Glimpses of World History, 
CUP reprint, Eourth Impression, 1987, p.87). 

- Papacy, pp. 56-57. 

- C. A. Simon admitted subsequently that “I was not aware of the 
controversial version given by Sri Sita Ram Goel.” 

- The Indian Express at Madras continues to spread Christian lies 
in a big way while sharing an occasional paragraph for mild or 
uninformed protests against them. 


22 

Plea for Rejecting Jesus as junk 


Jesus Christ has been the stock-in-trade of Christian missions down the 
ages. He has been packed in all shapes and sizes depending upon the 
gullibility of the clients to be duped. And he has been rammed down the 
throats of those who have refused to be hoodwinked by the hoax. As one 
surveys the history of Christian missions in lands where this hoax has been 
hawked or imposed, one comes across no end of force and fraud employed 
in its service by a variety of soldiers and salesmen most of whom are 
presented as saints. It can be said without exaggeration that if one is in 
search of a hardened criminal with a clean conscience, one should reach 
out for the first available Christian saint and one will not miss the mark. St. 
Francis Xavier, the Paron Saint of the East according to the Roman 
Catholic Church, provides an excellent example. 


The Jesus shop in India was set up for the first time by the Portuguese 
pirates who started flocking in from 1498 AD onwards. But no buyers 
came forward to sample the merchandise except for some vagrants who 
took the bribes offered in exchange for baptism, and went back to live their 
lives as before. The garbage was then fed forcibly to helpless men and 
women and children whom the pirates had reduced to slavery and 
concubinage. The poor Parvas on the Pearl Fishery Coast had to purchase 
it because the Portuguese navy threatened them with a blockade of their 
catamarans in case they refused to come round. Meanwhile, some pirates 
dressed up as priests had started peddling the stock in the interior of 
Malabar, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Bengal. But Hindus 
everywhere had turned away with contempt and ridicule. Finally, Maharshi 
Dayananda had warned his countrymen against the fraud in words which 
were loud and clear. The hawkers of Jesus Christ were on the run after 
Swami Vivekananda exposed their methods in picturesque language, and 
invited them to have some sense of shame. 



Jesus Christ would have continued to stink in Hindu nostrils but for 
another historical process which was simultaneously at work in this 
country. The long spell of Islamic terror had spawned a class of Hindus to 
whom superiority of armed might had come to mean superiority of religion 
and culture. They had started seeing exceptional merit in the Allah of 
Islam. They could not but see even greater merit in the Jesus of 
Christianity when the mailed fist of a Christian power overcame the 
Islamic marauder. Raja Ram Mohun Roy was a typical member of this 
double-distilled class. He had already passed under the spell of Allah when 
he came across Jesus. He took no time in jumping on the new bandwagon, 
and started presenting Jesus as an embodiment of virtues unknown to his 
countrymen. The Brahmo Samaj he founded continued to place Jesus on a 
higher and higher pedestal. 


Mahatma Gandhi did not belong to this self-alienated class of Hindus. 
He came from the mainstream of Hinduism which had refused to be 
overawed by the bluff and bluster of both Islam and Christianity, and 
remained faithful to its age-old spiritual vision. Nor could the Mahatma be 
influenced either by the armed might or by the cultural arrogance of the 
latest conqueror. But due to a variety of reasons, he had developed a cult of 
his own and, like the medieval acharyas, identified the whole of Sanatana 
Dharma with this cult rather than see it as one of the strands in a vast 
fabric. Next, he had gone out in search of a similar cult in the scriptures of 
Islam and Christianity. He could not find what he was looking for either in 
the Quran or the Hadis. But some verses in one of the gospels made him 
dance with delight. He had hit paydirt! 


This was the Sermon on the Mount which no Christian theologian or 
historian had so far noticed as something significant. In fact, Christian 
scholars had come to suspect the Sermon as an interpolation which was not 
at all in accord with the character and teaching of Jesus as found in the rest 
of the gospels. But what could these Christian worthies do in the face of 



the Mahatmas claim that he knew Christianity better than any Christian, 
dead or alive? In any case, the Mahatmas identification of Jesus teaching 
with the Sermon was convenient for Christian missions in carrying forward 
their commerce farther a field. 


Almost all other Hindu leaders and organisations followed the 
Mahatmas lead. They started vying with each other in praising Jesus to the 
skies. The Ramakrishna Mission all but replaced the Paramhamsa with this 
newly found fetish. Even those Hindus who looked askance at the 
activities of Christian missions could not help heaping fulsome praise on 
the Christian totem. It became a fashion with Hindu gurus, in India and 
abroad, to pay homage to Jesus before saying any thing else. And it was 
not long before Jesus was hailed as an avatar by many mainstream Hindus. 
Christian missions in this country had never had it so good. Now they had 
only to mention the magic name, and almost every English educated Hindu 
stood spell-bound. They went further and proclaimed that a Hindu who did 
not honour Jesus as a spiritual giant was no Hindu at all! 


I myself had swallowed the Hindu version of Jesus hook, line and 
sinker - while I was a college student. And that version stayed with me for 
forty long years - till I read Ram Swarups critique of Monotheism in The 
Word As Revelation: Names of Gods. As a student of European history, I 
knew that the history of Christianity had been cruel and blood-soaked till 
recent times. But I had never thought that this history had been created by 
doctrines taught by Jesus in the gospels. Ram Swarups critique made me 
sit up, and study Christianity in some depth. And I learnt with painful 
surprise that Jesus of the gospels was a vicious character. The viciousness 
of Christian history now stood fully and satisfactorily explained. 


Another surprise for me was the findings of Christological research in 
the modern West. Book after book, written by Christian scholars, informed 
me that nothing was known-not even knowable - about the real Jesus if he 



existed at all, and that Jesus of the gospels was a theological statement 
rather than a historical character. So the historicity of Jesus, which is a 
fundamental tenet of Christianity, was a Big Lie. 


The next thing that I learnt - now with considerable delight - was the 
steep decline of Christianity in its Western homelands due to the rise of 
humanism, rationalism, universalism, and science. It was only in the Afro- 
Asian countries, particularly Hindu-Buddhist lands, that Christian missions 
had found a flourishing market for Jesus. In fact, Christianity was trying to 
find a new home in the Hindu Buddhist countries. The Western countries 
had no use for Jesus any more. But they were prepared to finance Christian 
missions to unload this junk elsewhere in exchange for services to be 
rendered by the missions in some other spheres - political, diplomatic, 
commercial, and subversive. 


What pained me no end, however, was the fact that the Christological 
research in the modern West had remained unknown to Hindus by and 
large although it was readily available. Swami Vivekananda was the last 
Hindu leader who was fully acquainted with this research, and who had 
used it for blunting the thrust of Christian missions. One also got glimpses 
in Mahatma Gandhis encounter with Christian missions to the effect that 
he was aware of this research to some extent, though he did not permit it to 
affect his evaluation of Jesus. But for the rest, Hindus had remained 
uninformed with the result that Christian missions had continued to sell 
Jesus of the gospels with great gusto, particularly the Jesus of history with 
miracles and all. So I decided to present the findings of Christological 
research in a small booklet, Jesus Christ An Artifice for Aggression, to 
serve as a companion volume to the revised and enlarged second edition of 
my major work on Christian missions. Catholic Ashrams: Sannyasins or 
Swindlers? 



The first part of the book on Jesus presented the salient features of 
Christological research which had been summarised as follows by a 
scholar writing in 1986: During the last thirty years theologians have come 
increasingly to admit that it is no longer possible to write a biography of 
him [Jesus], since documents earlier than the gospels tell us next to nothing 
of his life, while the gospels present the kerygma or proclamation of faith, 
not the Jesus of history. Many contemporary theologians therefore regard 
the quest of the historical Jesus as both hopeless and religiously irrelevant - 
in that the few things which can, allegedly, be known of his life are 
unedifying and do not make him an appropriate object of worship. 


The second part of the book dealt with how the Jesus of Fiction had 
come increasingly to the fore in the modern West as the Jesus of History 
started fading fast. It listed and summarised quite a few books written by 
two schools. One school believes that notwithstanding his unknowability a 
man called Jesus did exist at some time. Many early sources as well as 
stray incidents in the gospels have been used to reconstruct the man and his 
doings. The outcome has been a spate of novels and speculative books 
which are entertaining rather than enlightening. Another school believes 
that no man named Jesus by Christianity ever existed, and that the Jesus of 
the gospels is a synthetic product for manufacturing which many cults 
prevalent in the Roman Empire in the first century AD have been used. 
The books produced by this school are fewer than those produced by the 
other school, but equally speculative. 


The third part of the book came up with the latest Christian trickery, 
namely, how die-hard Christian theologians have invented the Jesus of 
Faith when they were deprived of the Jesus of History and faced with the 
Jesus of Fiction. This is a desperate attempt to resurrect the Jesus of the 
gospels. But the same research which has exploded the Jesus of History 
has nailed the Jesus of the gospels as a figure soaked in the blood of 
millions of innocents in many lands. In fact, the gospels are now regarded 
as the First Nazi Manifesto by knowledgeable historians, sociologists, and 
psychologists, and Christianity itself as a Big Fie. 



The last part of the book provided statistics from authentic Christian 
sources for showing how Christianity had crumbled in the modern West, 
and how Jesus has been reduced to junk which the West is dumping on the 
East with the help of Christian missions. For the missions themselves, 
Jesus is only an artifice for mounting aggression against non-Christian 
societies and cultures, and no more an object of worship because they 
know the truth about what they are selling. Hindus should know that Jesus 
means nothing but mischief for their country and culture, and stop showing 
any weakness for him. Weakness for Jesus in a Hindu is the same as the 
weakness for dice in Raja Nala of epic fame. As Kaliyuga was able to enter 
Raja Nala and ruin him because of his weakness, weakness for Jesus helps 
in increasing the stranglehold of intelligence networks and foreign policy 
department of the West on the only Hindu homeland. 


The book invited comments soon after it was published in April 1994. 
Most of the comments came from Hindus and objected to the language 
used in some parts of the book, particularly the description of Jesus as 
junk. But all writers agreed that the fact revealed from Christological 
research were startling, and had put Jesus in his proper place as a 
monstrous myth. I told them that the criminal gangs of Christian 
swordsmen and missionaries had been waging a war against Hindu 
spiritual traditions, Hindu culture and Hindu nation, for the past five 
hundred years and with every weapon available to them at any time. Now 
that they had been worsted in their own homelands and forced to wear a 
soft face, they were trying to dictate the language we use for their totem. 
So long as Christianity refuses to revise its theology and withdraw its 
missions, there was no language which was strong enough for it and its 
hirelings. 


Dr. K. Swaminathan of Madras, however, endorsed my language also. 
In a letter dated 2 June 1994, he wrote as follows to Swami Devananda 
Saraswati who had presented to him copies of the two books: 



Jesus Christ: An Artifice for Aggression takes my breath away. It 
is a devastating expose of the myth of Jesus, besides which even the 
myth of St(?) Thomas pales into historical inconsequence, relatively 
speaking. The damage done by the latter is limited to South India only 
whereas that caused by Jesus has ravaged continents and destroyed 
civilizations in all parts of the world. 


I still cannot understand why Gandhiji had to extol Jesus, the 
person, to the skies (except perhaps his ignorance at that time) while 
condemning missionary work unequivocally although in 
understanding sweet language. Now I have come to the conclusion 
that Shri Goels language, apparently strident and caustic at first look, 
is the most appropriate way (without mincing words) to deal with the 
sugar-tongued vipers that the Church and its missions have perfected 
themselves to be. Shri Goel has done immeasurable service to the 
Hindu cause and the Hindu awakening. His writings should be taught 
in the universities. What courage and perseverance he has displayed! I 
wish he were 20 years younger. What agony his heart must have gone 
through in fighting almost single-handedly a seemingly hopeless 
battle inspired by Ram Swamp. Thank the Lord Nataraja that he is 
now admirably supported by scholars like Shourie, List, yourself and 
a few others. I pray to the Lord that VOICE OF INDIA sweeps 
through our land in the coming years and causes a new Hindu 
Renaissance, jolting the so-called enlightened elite Hindus out of their 
fond illusions about Jesus and Prophet Mohammed into a realistic 
assessment of their lives. Till two years ago I believed in them 
myself! 


Catholic Ashrams is indeed equally revealing about their modus 
operandi. I had all along thought-Swami Abhishiktananda was a 
genuine Hindu Swami and a Yogi who fully followed Swami 
Gnanananda of Tapovanam and Sri Ramana Maharshi and had 
rejected Christ totally after coming to India! 



The Shantivanam Branch (Sathya Nilayam) in Mylapore still 
continues such fraudulent exercises. I recently came across one Father 
Thomas Marriets books condemning Swami Vivekananda and 
Advaita (Emphasis in original) 

Shri B. M. Thapar of New Delhi, a devotee of Sathya Sai Baba, was 
more than annoyed by my description of Jesus as junk. He advised me 
against using the language I had used, and thought that my attack on 
Christianity could have been dexterous instead of being direct. I disagreed 
with him and told him that most of the time I had only cited what scholars 
in the West had said. Shri Thapar had, however, sent the two books - 
Catholic Ashrams and Jesus Christ - to some of his friends in the West. He 
sent to me copies of two comments he had received. In a letter dated 13 
July 1994, Mr. Meads of Emporia, Kansas, USA, wrote: 

And thank you for the books Catholic Ashrams and Jesus Christ. 
Being from a Christian Background, I was very interested in reading 
others perspective of this major religion. Sita Ram Goel writes like a 
very angry fundamentalist, and I find that very unusual coming from a 
Hindu. It is quite obvious that he is not a Sai Baba devotee. 


I found it a little disheartening to read the Jesus is junk paragraph 
in Jesus Christ, page 85. Baba said in his Christmas discourse 1978 
(Sathya Sai speaks, vol X, chapter 45) that Jesus was a Karan-Janma, 
a Master born with a purpose - the mission of restoring love, charity, 
and compassion in the heart of man I know nothing about the Catholic 
ashrams, very enlightening. 

Mr. W. S. Cockburn of Bromley, Kent, England wrote on 19 July 1994.. 

The books have arrived safe and sound. 1) CATHOEIC 
ASHRAMS 2) JESUS CHRIST. Denise has already read No .2 from 
cover to cover and agrees with much. I think Sita Ram Goel is a 
clever man with quite a mind. His English is beautiful but he is so 



sharp and at times vicious. So Brij you have begun an interesting 
discourse. Denise and I feel like a couple of students about to read for 
our Ph.D. in CHRISTOLOGY. 


While sending these comments to me, Shri Thapar himself wrote on 13 
October 1994: 

I have completed reading Jesus Christ - artifice for aggression; 
when I previously wrote I had by chance read p. 85 only (viz. Jesus is 
junk etc.); your language made me uneasy. Now I have to thank you 
for alerting me to the subject of Christology; the documentation is 
such and so well done that it speaks for itself; I wholeheartedly agree 
with the spirit of your letter of 9/8/94 but feel I must part company 
with the language you have used on p. 85 and in a couple of sentences 
elsewhere 

I was late in air-mailing a copy to Dr. Winand Callewaert of Louvain, 
Belgium. He is an old India-hand who knows and speaks Hindi fluently, 
and has edited some medieval Hindi texts. I had met him some years ago, 
and a warm friendship had developed between us. But as soon as he saw 
some VOICE OF INDIA publications, he stopped even telephoning to me 
during his annual visits to Delhi. Back in Belgium, he started a whispering 
campaign against Koenraad Fist who, according to him, had been 
brainwashed by Sita Ram Goel. I was, therefore, not altogether surprised 
when I received a long letter from him in November 1995: 

Dr. Winand Callewaert, 


Dept. Asian Studies 
Blidje Inkonststraat 21 
B - 3000 Feuven 
Belgium 

Feuven, 10th November 1995 


Dear Sita Bhai, 

A few weeks ago I received Jesus Christ. An artifice for 
aggression. 



It is a well written and well documented book, and without going 
into detail I can agree with many points you mention. I only take issue 
with the spirit in which it is written and the conclusions you draw. I 
worry about the aims you like to achieve, nourishing the feeling you 
have and that prompted you to write this book. 


I have always had much respect for you, and affection, but am 
very sorry that we got estranged. Let me explain. The ideas you have 
and the books you write about Christians (a tiny minority in India) are 
not a unique phenomenon. Most criticism you quote has been 
published by Christians themselves, and I can add plenty to it. No 
harm. That is a positive development. That is how a religion can 
evolve from institutionalisation and power-building to what it should 
be: give a dimension in life to those people who are in need of it. Let 
those who are not in need of it not bother about it. 


But those ideas are not unique also in another way too. They occur 
in every religion and society as a negative phenomenon as well, in 
Islam, in Judaism, in Christianity and unfortunately also in Hinduism. 
At this level they do not have much to do with purifying the religion, 
but with another level of power, of politics. If you write in your book 
on p. 82 that Christianity in India is meant to destabilize the 
government, you no longer discuss the validity of the religious 
inspiration of Christianity. You discuss politics. 

And that is the level where I am so scared of your publications. 


It is all right with me if your publications help people, each one in 
his own religion, to purify his insight and his commitment. But it is 
dangerous if it brings about hatred among people. We are going to the 



21st century and soon to a world with 5 billion people, whether we 
like or not. Too many people everywhere, whatever the reasons (and I 
surely disagree with the pope who plays a negative role here, using 
religion to impose some kind of ethics, but that is not the issue here). 


In that kind of world my personal contribution I hope will be to 
bring people together. If you read my publications, you will ONLY 
find waves of understanding for Hinduism or Buddhism, not for the 
power bases (there too) that use religion for their own benefit, but 
understanding for the fine products of divine or whatever inspiration 
that has brought about outstanding literature and philosophy. 


That is, dear Sita Rain, where I fear since several years, that our 
ways part. I can agree with much of the analysis you make about 
Christianity (or Islam), but where does it take one? 

-The Christian believer will be antagonized and turn against you. 
Result: feelings of hatred. 

-The non-believer will say: of course religion exploits people for 
its own end, you see. Result: he will turn against the believing 
Christians. Hatred. 


-And the non-Christians in India and elsewhere will only be too 
happy to find arguments in your books to say: of course this 
intelligent man has given proof that Christianity is meant to exploit 
us. Let us suppress or throw out (if possible) the Christians in India. 
Result: hatred. 

I do not understand, Sita Bhai, how this can be your project. 

What do you want to achieve? 



-Prove that Christianity is losing its power base in the west, 
because it was built on dogma and fear? Everybody knows that, but 
quite a few people-including myself-try to find a base in their life 
using the good elements in the Christian inspiration, not bothering 
about the excesses, as much as hinduism too has offered plenty to me 
to define my purpose in life. And we are not alone. 


-Increase a certain powerbase of so-called hindus, and therefore 
throw out from India whatever is not hindu? If that is your aim in life, 
it is not realistic. 


See where the Ayodhya issue, or now Benares, is leading. To 
killing, hatred, communal feelings of one neighbour against the other. 
Politicians use your ideas to increase their own power, gundas and 
property pirates in Bombay use your or the Shiv Senas ideology for 
their own aims. Is that what you hope to achieve? 


-Do you want to defend a minority of hindus against the 
oppression by islam and Christianity. You cannot be serious about it. 
The real majority in India now is the oppressed classes, who for 
centuries have not had a chance in hindu society, and who were neatly 
kept in their place by a subtle religious system. Do not tell me that is 
not true. I am certainly in a position to know, but I do NOT make it 
my business to start attacking hinduism for that. What would I bring 
about then: useless hatred. 


Interestingly, even in this area politicians have found food for 
their hunting, using the Dalits as a forceful votebank. Do you not see 



that? Some people are only too happy to see your publications. As 
much as in Belgium e.g. some people are only too happy to see anti- 
islamic publications, for their own political end. 

Hatred brings about killings, as we saw recently in Israel. 


If some think that there is no place for others, that is what you get. 
Israel, or south-Africa, or Belgium, or the US. In India too. 


Sd/ 

Winand 


My reply to Dr. Callewaert is reproduced below: 
28.2.1996 

Dear Dr. Callewaert, 


I hope you have received my acknowledgment of your letter dated 
10 November 1995 which reached me on 29 November due to the 
mess prevailing in our postal system at that time. 


Unfortunately, I was quite ill at the time I received your letter. I 
had to remain bed-ridden for more than a month. It is only in the last 
few days that I have regained some strength and resumed work. I am 
now in a position to take up your letter, point by point, and present my 
own case. 



I am glad you consider my book on Jesus well written and well 
documented, and agree with many points have made. I wish you had 
detailed those points for my enlightenment. Instead, you have gone 
ahead and nailed me for the spirit in which it is written, the 
conclusions I have drawn, the aims I like to achieve, and the feelings I 
nourish. I will come to my conclusions and my aims in the paras that 
follow. Here I wish to say that your remarks about my spirit and 
feelings remind me of a fashion prevalent in Indias politics - 
whenever a politician finds it difficult to pin down an opponent or a 
rival on specifics, he says, I do not like the style of his functioning. 
Delving into the other persons psychology may sound deep but it 
hardly helps a healthy dialogue which should better be confined to 
facts and logic and value judgments. 


My conclusions are clear enough, namely, that Jesus Christ and 
Christianity are junk which has been rejected by the modern West but 
which Christian missions are out to dump on the Third World 
countries with the help of Western wealth and media power, the same 
as in the case of many other commodities. The statistical evidence I 
have quoted about the steep decline of Christianity in its traditional 
homelands have not been cooked up by me; they have been compiled 
by a Christian organisation of impeccable credentials. Tell me where I 
have gone wrong. Or is it your case that what the West has come to 
know about Jesus Christ and Christianity should remain unknown in 
this part of the world? I beg to differ. There is no reason for my 
people to wallow in ignorance when knowledge is readily available. 


My aims are also quite clear. I want Hindus to view Christianity as 
a wicked ideology like Communism and Nazism, and not as a system 
of spiritual seeking like their own schools of Sanatana Dharma. My 
judgment is based on an extensive study of Sanatana Dharma classics 
and Hindu history on the one hand, and of the classics of Christianity 
and its history on the other. You may differ with my judgment, as I 
know you do. That is, however, a matter of dialogue which we want 



to have with our Christian friends but which the Christians whom I 
have known have chosen to avoid with a contemptuous smile. 


That brings me to the next point, namely, your being sorry that we 
got estranged. I wonder why you use the word we in this context. I 
have never felt estranged towards you. It is you who started avoiding 
me after having known and liked me for quite some time. The story is 
the same with several other Christian friends whom I have known and 
cherished for many years. None of you have had the decency to find 
out by means of a free and frank discussion with me as to why I have 
chosen to speak the way I have done. All of you have simply walked 
out of my life, hurling at me the base accusation that I am spreading 
hatred against the Christian community. Your present letter is brimful 
of this accusation. 


I had the same experience when I started speaking against 
Communism after having been its votary for several years. Friends 
whom I had known and cherished for long became estranged without 
anyone of them trying to find out the reason for my rebellion. They 
simply started saying that I had been bought over by the CIA and was 
working not only against the poor and the downtrodden but also the 
freedom and integrity of my country. I have never been able to 
understand this behaviour pattern. I have had strong differences with 
many of my non-Christian and non-Communist friends without losing 
their love and esteem for me. The fact that I found the Christians and 
the Communists sharing this behaviour pattern in common confirms 
me in my conclusion that the two creeds are the same with a variation 
in verbiage. My studies of the histories of Christianity and 
Communism reinforce the same conclusion. 


You state that the ideas I have and the books I write about 
Christians are not a unique phenomenon. Before I come to the 



uniqueness part, I wish to point out the confusion you create by your 
loose language. Can you kindly quote a single sentence from any of 
my writings where I have said anything derogatory about Christians 
as such? I have said time and again that Christians in India are our 
own people who have been alienated from their ancestral society and 
culture by the divisive doctrine of Christianity. All my guns have 
always been trained on the doctrine of Christianity, none and never 
against Christians except the Christian missionaries. The same 
confusion prevails when I write about Islam. I am told that I am 
attacking Muslims. Let me tell you, as I have told many others, that I 
live in the world of ideas and not in that of human beings who are 
victimized (or ennobled) by those ideas. I make a clear distinction 
between propensities, good and bad, which are embedded in normal 
human nature and those which are imparted by ideas and ideologies. 


In any case, your concern for the tiny minority of Christians in 
India is totally uncalled for in view of the long Hindu history of 
providing protection to all persecuted people from everywhere. We 
looked after the Jews and the Syrian Christians who were driven out 
of their homelands by the Catholic Church and the Zoroastrians of 
Iran. We took care of the Zoroastrians when they were driven out of 
Iran by Islam. We have provided shelter to the Buddhist Tibetans 
victimized by the Chinese Communists. All these refugee 
communities have lived and prospered in our land. And I assure you 
that our Christian countrymen will continue to flourish long after their 
present-day shepherds desert them, which they are bound to do in due 
course. 


Now I come to the uniqueness of our critique. It is true that 
scholars in the West have written a lot in criticism of Christianity in 
its various aspects. But as I have pointed out, most of that criticism 
remains unknown in this country,, so our effort is unique. More 
pertinently, the Western critique has been, most of the time, an 
operation aimed at salvaging Jesus Christ from the blood-soaked 



history he has created in many parts of the world and for centuries on 
end. I am sure you are familiar with the exercise named the 
disentangled Christ. The diabolical crimes which can be traced, easily 
and logically, to doctrines preached by Jesus Christ have been blamed 
on Western imperialism in general and Spanish and Portuguese 
imperialism in particular. Or they have been explained away by being 
placed in the concrete historical context. Our critique is unique 
because we have seen through this game and warned our people 
against being tricked and buying the big lie. 


Our critique is unique in yet another way. Hindus have so far 
failed to view Christianity from the vantage point of Sanatana 
Dharma. On the contrary, they have been misled into viewing 
Sanatana Dharma from the vantage point of Christianity. The Brahmo 
Samaj, the Ramakrishna Mission, and the Gandhians have built up 
Jesus Christ into a spiritual giant and Christianity into a religion as 
good as, if not better than, Sanatana Dharma. The unique thing about 
our critique is our telling to Hindus that Jesus Christ is a very 
questionable character, and that Christianity is a cruel and predatory 
ideology like Communism and Nazism. Believe me that our books 
have caused a greater surprise and pain among Hindus who have been 
led to look reverentially at Jesus and think of Christianity as sharing a 
lot in common with Hinduism and Buddhism. Many of them are now 
trying to face and accept the unpleasant truths. 


You also deny uniqueness to our critique on another count, 
namely, by stating that there is nothing new about publicizing the 
negative features of Christianity and Islam. I must say very 
emphatically that you are very much mistaken. Had you studied our 
critique as carefully as we have presented it, you would have 
discovered that it is preoccupied primarily and to a large extent with 
what are known as the most positive doctrines of these creeds - the 
character of Yahweh and Allah in the Bible and the Quran; the 
concepts of revelation, the only son, the last prophet, and covenant 



with the chosen people (the Church and the Ummah); the division of 
historical time into ages of ignorance and illumination, of the human 
family into believers and unbelievers, and of the inhabited world into 
lands of the blessed and the damned; the positing of a permanent war 
(Crusade and JihAd) to be waged by missions and military 
expeditions till the unbelievers are converted or killed; the imposition 
of a uniform code of conduct on the believers by a theocratic state; the 
second coming and the day of judgment; eternal heaven for the 
believers and eternal hell for the unbelievers. It is these positive 
doctrines of Christianity and Islam which have produced, logically 
and inevitably, what you name as the negative phenomenon - religious 
wars, massacres, genocides, rapine, iconoclasm, slave trade, and so 
on. I do not have to detail to you the histories of Christianity and 
Islam; they have been fully documented. 


Next, we compare these positive doctrines of Christianity and 
Islam with the positive vision of Sanatana Dharma, and carry the 
same exercise in the field of history. That is the only way our people 
can be made to see the merits and demerits of the two radically 
opposed traditions - the Vedic and the Biblical. You have had in the 
West, and for a long time, a discipline known as the Science of 
Comparative Religion. We are fairly familiar with the exercise which 
always ends by showing Biblical Monotheism as the highest 
manifestation of religious consciousness. There is no dearth of Hindu 
scholars, even religious savants, who have lapped up this Western 
science, and placed the Sanatana Dharma family of spiritual traditions 
on the defensive, all along the line. We have only reversed the 
exercise and shown Biblical Monotheism as a monstrous doctrine 
which has plagued mankind ever since it was spelled out by the 
Biblical prophets. I wonder if you are at all correct in labelling this 
scholarship as politics. Would it be acceptable to you if we describe as 
politics your Science of Comparative Religion? Please drop the 
accusation unless in your lexicon the word politics can cover anything 
and everything. 



Of course, it is not for the first time that we have been accused of 
playing politics. The late Father Bede Dayananda Griffiths told us in 
so many words that Ram Swamp and I were trying to create 
communal riots between Hindus and Christians. Some other Christian 
friends have told us again and again that while they appreciate 
religious Hinduism, they find it hard to understand political Hinduism, 
meaning the kind of work we are doing. The point that all of you are 
trying to make is that Hindus should not stand up and speak in 
defence of their own religion and culture, that Hindus should not try 
to analyse and understand the factors and forces in the field around 
them, in short, that Hindus should remain at the receiving end for all 
time to come. We are sorry we have to reject your advice. 


Nor are you alone in getting scared of our publications. The entire 
Christian establishment in this country and even its patrons abroad 
seem to be in the same state of mind. This is in spite of the fact that 
VOICE OF INDIA is, to use your own phrase, a tiny set-up as 
compared to the giant Christian establishment, not only in terms of 
resources and manpower but also in terms of reach. I do not have to 
read out the details to you; you know the facts as a specialist on the 
affairs of this country. What strikes me as interesting is that it was the 
same story when we started calling the bluff of Communism. We were 
only a few with no establishment worth the name. On the other hand, 
the Communist establishment in this country at that time was as big as 
the Christian establishment at present. What is more, the Communist 
campaign was backed by the official establishment which stood 
packed with fellow-travellers including the Prime Minister, 
Jawaharlal Nehru. But our publications created a scare not only in the 
Communist establishment in this country but also in the Soviet Union 
and Red China. 



Again, the close parallel between Christianity and Communism 
has a message for us, namely, that those who build houses on fragile 
foundations get scared even by the slightest probe. On the other hand, 
we look at the edifice of sound spirituality and sterling culture built by 
Sanatana Dharma. It has survived the Islamic attack spread over more 
than thirteen hundred years, and the Christian attack sustained for five 
centuries. We were here long before Jesus Christ was born and hurled 
at an unsuspecting Pagan world. And I assure you we will be here 
long after the Bible starts selling as waste paper on pavements around 
the world. Recall the fate of Hitlers Mein Kampf and the Collected 
Works of Lenin and Stalin. 


You speak of purifying religion. We are trying to purify Hinduism 
by rejecting the monotheistic poison it has imbibed under the impact 
of Islam and Christianity. We are asking Hindus to be proud of their 
Gods and Goddesses, of their temples and icons, of their sages and 
saints, of their cultural and social traditions, in short, of all that the 
Biblical creeds denounce as polytheism, pantheism, idolatry and 
superstition. And we call upon Christians and Muslims to have a close 
look at Yahweh and Allah, the only saviour and the last prophet, at 
missions and daw ah, in short, at every doctrine which sanctions 
exclusivism and aggression. Describing these calls as spreading 
hatred defies our imagination. 


Many Christian friends I met have told me, I do not like the 
missionaries. I told everyone of them that it was no use saying so to 
me in private, and that what I expected was a public protest. There has 
been no response. Dr. Raymond Panikkar advised me to join a 
common platform of all religions for opposing materialism, 
industrialism, consumerism, and technological totalitarianism. I told 
him that I was all for it provided the Christian and Muslim friends on 
the platform denounced the mission and the dawah. He smiled and 
gave me up. I had to tell him that his advice was tantamount to 
making me look the other way so that my pocket could be picked. I 



am inviting you to create a platform in the West for protesting against 
the missions let loose upon us. Then alone I will accept as honest your 
plea of purifying religion. Charity should begin at home. 


That takes me to the core of our critique. Let me assure you that 
we Hindus do not care at all about what the other people believe. 
Christians are welcome to believe in Immaculate Conception, virgin 
birth, resurrection, an the rest. Muslims are welcome to believe in 
Jibril and Miraj and the miracles of Muhammad. Both of them are 
welcome to worship whomsoever they view as God, in their own way. 
The trouble arises when Christians and Muslims try to impose their 
beliefs and ways of worship on other people by means of force and 
fraud masquerading as mission and dawah. People cannot be brought 
together so long as this aggression continues. If objection to 
aggression means spreading hatred, we plead guilty. 


The rest of your letter is irrelevant for me because you have 
missed the main point, namely, our audience, and mistaken us for a 
reform movement. Our audience is neither the Christians nor the 
Muslims, in India or elsewhere. Our audience is Hindu intelligentsia 
and Hindu intelligentsia alone. It has been a Hindu habit for long to 
resent the behaviour patterns of Christians and Muslims while 
praising Christianity and Islam as revered religions. Christians and 
Muslims cannot understand this Hindu habit. They say, and say it very 
rightly, that Hindus accept their religions only in theory while 
rejecting them in practice. We are asking Hindus to reverse the 
process. We are asking them to study Christianity and Islam in depth 
and see for themselves that Christian and Muslim behaviour patterns 
follow from the belief system of Christianity and Islam. We are telling 
Hindus that it is no use protesting against the behaviour patterns while 
remaining blind to the belief systems. That is the long and short of our 
effort. 



In the case of Islam, our effort aims at raising the dialogue from 
the street level to the level of scholarly platforms. For a long time, 
Hindus have been flattering Muslims by seeing nothing wrong in the 
doctrine of Islam. For a long time, Muslims have been taking to the 
streets and shedding blood whenever and wherever Hindus object to 
their behaviour pattern. Muslims have never been asked by Hindus to 
reflect on the dogmas of Islam, and revise them wherever they go 
against peaceful coexistence. We are appealing to Hindus to start 
asking some questions about Islam so that Muslims are made to 
rethink. If asking questions with a view to holding a dialogue is 
provoking violence, we plead guilty again. Hindus had a long 
tradition of asking questions even about their own cherished 
doctrines. I wonder if you are well-acquainted with our acharyas - 
Brahmanic, Buddhist and the rest. It was only with the advent of 
Islam and, later on, Christianity that Hindus were terrorised into the 
habit of remaining silent when faced with wild claims and not asking 
any questions. We are trying to revive the ancient Hindu tradition. 



Yours Sincerely 



Sita Ram Goel 


On the other hand, the response from another Christian quarters has 
been positive as well as ideological. A copy of my book on Jesus Christ 
had been sent for review to the Catholic monthly, Jeevadhara, published 
from Kottayam in Kerala. The March 1996 (Vol. XXVI, No. 152) of the 
monthly is devoted to the theme discussed in my book. The book is not 
mentioned either in the Editorial or in the five article which comprise the 
issue. But its cover carries the title. The Historical Jesus, and a copy of it 
has been addressed to me by name. In any case, two articles in it refer to 
another VOICE OE INDIA publication, Arun Shourie and his Christian 
Critic, in which Arun Shourie has put a question mark on the historicity of 
Jesus. 


The articles in the monthly travel tiresomely over the same well known 
territory which has been covered in my book on Jesus Christ. They flaunt 
the same tongue-twisting jargon as h-as always been characteristic of 
Christian apologetics. Christian theologians have always had any number 
of tricks up their sleeves. Reading the rigmarole between the lines, it is 
more than obvious that their totem continues to totter so far as its 
historicity is concerned. Their desperation on this score has become so 
acute as to make them blind to what they are admitting in another context. 
This becomes obvious in the very first article - Biblical Scholarship on 
Historical Jesus - written by E. Eegrand of St. Peters Pontifical Seminary at 
Bangalore. After saying that the search for the Jesus of history had come to 
a dead halt for twenty years in the aftermath of Bultmann, the theologian 
proceeds: 

But now, in the last few years, the interest for the historical Jesus 
seems to have returned with a vengeance. The reason for this revival 
of interest can be attributed to the pendular movement of scholarly - 
or simply of human - attention. It is due also to the apparition of new 
factors. 



A first factor is the rediscovery of the Jewish roots and of the 
Israelite background of Jesus. The rediscovery itself resulted from the 
convergence of a variety of elements. An important ideological 
stimulus was the backlash of the Holocaust in Europe at the time of 
World War II. The massive scale of cruelty of this atrocious genocide 
induced a sense of shame and led to a reflexion on the deep seated 
causes of antisemitism. Christians theology and biblical exegesis bad 
its share of the blame in so as it bad dissociated Christian identity 
from its Jewish sources or even too often had expressed this identity in 
terms of antitheses of and opposition to Judaism. The Declaration of 
Nostra Aetate of Vatican II on the Relations of the Church with non- 
Christian Religions has a long paragraph recalling the spiritual bond 
that links the people of the New Testament with the descendants of 
Abraham (S. 4). Positive as it was, it was none the less criticized for 
listing the Jewish Religion among non-Christian religions. A huge 
input of biblical scholarship tends now to see Christianity and 
Judaism within the continuum of a single religious movement. Jesus 
did not found a new religion meanwhile proposing a radically new 
perception of belonging to Israel, and, if the Church is a new Israel, it 
is so in the sense not of substituting the old one but of proposing a 
renewed vision of the irreversible call of God (p.97, emphasis added). 

One wonders whether this exercise is going to restore historicity to 
Jesus. What one finds intriguing is, what will happen to his divinity once 
he is reduced to the status of a Jewish prophet howsoever high-grade? But 
before we come to the latest theological trick being played in this context, 
we like to draw attention to an outright confession made in the above 
statement, namely, that the Holocaust caused by the Nazis was a direct and 
inevitable outcome of antiSemitism sponsored and spread by Christianity 
for centuries on end. As I have pointed out in my book on Jesus Christ, the 
antiSemitism of Christianity proceeds straight from what the Jesus of the 
gospels says about the Jews. 



Did the writers of the gospels - all of them Jews realize what they were 
letting loose when they transferred from the Romans to the Jews the guilt 
of killing Jesus? Is Christianity today prepared to purge the gospels of 
those poisonous phrases which make them the First Nazi Manifesto vis-a- 
vis the Jews? And will Christianity go further and revise its attitude 
towards other non-Christians as well? 


These questions are inter-linked. For, the problem which Christianity 
has posed, and continues to pose, before mankind is not confined to its 
attitude towards the Jews alone. The other non-Christians are also bothered 
by its attitude towards them. The writer of the article from which I have 
quoted above makes it more than clear that we Hindus at least can expect 
no such change in Christianitys attitude towards us. Coming to the end of 
the article, he proclaims: 

In so far as India is concerned, these developments are also 
relevant. India knows very well the problem of the meaning of 
history, that is, of an eternal and abiding Truth immanent in the 
contingencies of a transient world. Can Sath, the real Being, be 
enmeshed within the fleeting realities of this world? in concrete terms, 
can a carpenter living in a remote backward province of the Roman 
Empire in the distant first century of our Era be really the Truth as he 
claimed to be, for all times and all places? Attempts have been made 
to rescue the Christian claim by disconnecting the Galilean Jesus from 
the Risen Eord. Jesus of Nazareth, limited in space and time, confined 
to the narrow boundaries of Semitic culture and outlook, would be of 
restricted relevance for todays India. Only the Risen Lord in his 
Glory, image of God and Eirst-born of Creation would be the Christ of 
India, the Lord which the Sages and the Rishis of old would have 
already met in their vision of the Absolute. But would not this be a 
strange Bultmannian solution? Liberationist perspectives, Dalit and 
Eemale Theology aptly remind us that the poor and their oppression 
are also very much part of the Indian landscape and that they cannot 
be dispossessed of the Jesus of Nazareth who shared in their toil and 
knows in the flesh what it means to live in a world of injustice and 



corruption. Indian hermeneutics has to face the complexity of the 
Indian situation, its culture and counter-cultures (p.I02). 


The magic by means of which a mosquito is to be transformed into a 
mammoth remains a closely guarded Christian secret. But we know what it 
is. It is the formidable finance and media power of Christian missions. 

This pompous passage is only an elaboration of what J. C. Manalel 
says in the Editorial: 

in a country all but lost in the mire of the vilest crimes and 
corruption, the Life-of-Jesus research can hold aloft the torch of Jesus 
truth and justice and love and be a constant reminder of his shining 
example of self-sacrifice and self-gift to humankind (p.86). 

Comment on this denunciation of India and the tall claims made for the 
Christian totem would be superfluous. These are age-old missionary 
slogans being shouted in a new idiom. In the days of yore, India used to be 
a land of heathenism, sin, and fornication with false gods. Now it is a land 
of crime and corruption, caste and sex discrimination. In the days of yore, 
Christianity was to save us from eternal hell-fire. Now it promises to save 
us from social oppression and injustice. In short, we remain the damned as 
ever, and Christianity the only saviour as before. The rest is blah blah, of 
which Christian missionaries are never is short supply. What beats us is 
that these guys never mention in this context the plight of Dalit Christians 
whom they have uprooted from their ancestral society and culture, and 
who are displayed prominently when it comes to demanding benefits 
available to Hindu Harijans. Brazen-faced lying! thy name is Christianity! 


Coming to the Sages and the Rishis of old, there is no gainsaying that 
they have met the likes of Jesus in their meditations. But unfortunately for 
the Christian theologians their description of these spectres happens to be 
quite different. Take the Buddha for instance. He gives a graphic 
description of MAra whom he met while meditating in his VajrAsana under 
the Bodhi Tree at Gaya. If one reads the doings of MAra in the 
DIghanikAya and the doings of Jesus in the gospels, one cannot miss the 



similarity between the two. The Gita also provides ample details of the 
asura-sampad manifested by Jesus. There are many other stories of 
devAsura-saMgrAma - the Hindu view of history in the classics of 
Sanatana Dharma - in which we meet malignant figures like that of Jesus. 
It is time for Christian missionaries to stop telling lies about Indias Sages 
and Rishis. They should not force us to tell more truths about Jesus. We 
assure them that we have done plenty of Life-of-Jesus research. 


That the house of Christianity rests on fragile foundations was proved 
by the letter which VOICE OF INDIA received from Fr. Werner 
Chakkalakal. He had ordered a copy of Jesus Christ by value payable 
parcel (VPP). But he did not honour the VPP. VOICE OF INDIA wrote to 
him a routine letter stating that the VPP had been sent in response to his 
explicit order in writing, and that by not honouring it he had wasted 
postage which a non-profit organisation of small means could ill afford. 
The letter which VOICE OF INDIA received in reply is reproduced below: 

Dept, of Fiteracy & Value Education 


Navchetana 
Communications 
M.P. Regional Centre for performing Arts, 
Fiteracy, Value Education & Productions 
Tel. & Fax: (0755) 531389 


To 

Voice of India 
2/18 Ansari Road 
New Delhi - 110 002 

19.4.96 


Dear Friends, 



I understand that yours is not a commercial organisation, but one 
devoted to glorify a falsely understood Hindutva by spreading 
misinformation about those whom you perceive as rivals. Your very 
name claiming to be the Voice of India is symbolic of your 
pretensions. 


I had the chance cursorily to go through your book Jesus Christ: 
Artifice for Aggression, a typical example of scurrilous, mischievous 
and sophistic writing with a show of specious erudition. It is useless 
to answer such studied mischief, because there is no sincere love of 
truth in such propaganda. Hence I decided not to honour it with a 
rejoinder. Sincere Hindus will not change their minds about Christ, by 
reading your scurrillous literature. 


Only I wish to advise you not to sponsor such humbug, which 
would only show up the hollowness of your enterprise. 


But I respect your love of Hinduism, even though it is for the 
wrong reasons. 


Sincerely Yours, 
Fr. Werner Chakkalakal CMI 


Postal address for letters: NAVCHETANA, P.B. No.47, BHOPAL 
- 462 001 (M. P.) INDIA. R. No. 952/95. 

Street address: (also postal address for packets) NAVCHETANA 
CENTRE, VIP Road, LALGHATI, BHOPAL - 462 032. 

The letter which VOICE OE INDIA wrote back is also reproduced: 



25.4.96 


To 

Fr. Werner Chakkalakal CMI Navchetana Centre, 
VIP Road, Lalghati, 

Bhopal - 462 032 
Madhya Pradesh. 

Dear Sir, 


Many thanks for your letter of the 19th. You have bared a face 
which we have always suspected to be hiding behind the mask of 
amiableness. 


Our postcard was only a routine complaint that you did not honour 
the VPP which was sent to you in response to your explicit order, and 
that not being a commercial organisation we can ill afford loss by way 
of wasted postage. We do write such complaints whenever some 
customer does what you did. You could have kept quiet as some of 
them do, or apologised as some others have done. There was no 
occasion for you to let your spleen take over. 


We are, however, happy to know that when you ordered the book 
you had planned to write a rejoinder. We wish you had not changed 
your mind. And we do look forward to a reasoned rejoinder from you 
or someone else in your set-up. After all it is your Church which has 
been claiming for quite some time that Christians are in a dialogue 
with adherents of other religions. The book you have denounced after 
only a cursory look at it happens to be a Hindu contribution to the 
dialogue. Or is it your case that Hindus should not examine the 
dogmas you sell and have a close look at the totem by which you 
want them to swear? 



In any case, the heavy artillery of awesome adjectives you have 
brought into action is not going to annihilate the large number of 
books on Christology written by outstanding scholars in the West. 
Some of these scholars happen to be renowned Christian theologians. 
The book on which you have frowned so frightfully claims no 
originality. It has only presented what the traditional homelands of 
Christianity have known about Jesus for years on end. You would 
have been within your rights as well as bounds of a healthy dialogue 
if you had pointed out where the book had misquoted a source, or 
quoted it out of context, or used logic which was not straight, or used 
a value judgment which was not valid. We feel sorry that instead of 
advancing arguments, you have chosen to hurl swear-words. 


We are surprised indeed to see you reacting so violently to the 
modern Western view of Jesus and whatever else goes with that name. 
We wonder how you would react if you were to glance even cursorily 
at the Hindu view of Jesus as presented in some of our other 
publications. We shall present these publications to you if you feel 
interested and promise not to break out into another juvenile outburst. 


You accuse us of glorifying a falsely understood Hindutva. It is 
gratifying to know that you do not reject Hindutva outright like many 
others in your profession together with the motley crowd of 
Nehruvian Secularists. You also announce that you respect our love 
for Hinduism. We now wait for you to tell us what the truly 
understood Hindutva of your perception happens to be. We shall be 
grateful for your guidance. 


We, however, refuse to let you pass unchallenged when you flatter 
yourself by believing that we Hindus perceive Christianity as a rival 



to Hindutva. That is far from the truth. Do not be misled by the recent 
phenomenon of some Hindu leaders and organizations recognizing 
Christianity as a religion. The broad mass of mainstream Hindus have 
always despised Christianity as an dsurika creed brought in by alien 
invaders and imposed on some of our people by force, fraud and 
material inducements. 


You object to our naming ourselves as the Voice of India. That is 
because you do not know the premises from which we proceed. We 
believe that India is the homeland of Hindus and that the voice of 
Hindus is the Voice of India. We regard our Christian and Muslim 
compatriots as our own people who have been alienated from their 
ancestral society and culture by the divisive doctrines of Christianity 
and Islam. Voice of India speaks for these kidnapped Hindus as well. 
They have been enslaved and brainwashed and cannot speak for 
themselves. And we look forward to the day when they will speak for 
themselves rather than through some self-appointed shepherds. 


Incidentally, your jibe at the name of our organisation has 
prompted us to have a look at the banner under which you sail - 
Navchetana Communications: M.P. Regional Centre for Performing 
Arts, Literacy, Value Education and Productions. It is quite a 
mouthful. Kindly let us have a list of your publications and/or a write¬ 
up on your performance. Meanwhile, please pardon us for saying that 
we have found no music in the language of your letter, no rhyme in 
your reasoning, no value in your judgments, and no art or education in 
your performance as a whole. Let us not get away with the belief that 
that is all that you have to show by way of Productions. 


We are enclosing the latest list of our publications. There is 
nothing more that we can boast of at present. In fact, the work we are 
doing is very simple. You will understand it better if we put it in your 



own language the language of a multinational corporation marketing 
the only true faith and the only saviour from sin and eternal perdition. 
Here it is. We are organizing consumer vigilance and warning our 
people against buying counterfeit goods. It is no use resenting our 
presence in the field. The better course for you is to take the hint and 
stop selling your merchandise under false labels. In short, unless you 
desist from selling lies, we shall continue to tell the truth about you 
and your goods. 

Jai Shri Rama, 


Yours faithfully For Voice of India 

Sd. 

(Sita Ram Goel) 


Fr. Werners letter shows what happens when the skeletons which 
Christian missionaries have been hiding are brought out of the cupboard. 
The missionaries feel rattled. It also shows the confidence which Hindu 
eulogization of Jesus has inspired in the missionary mind. They have come 
to believe that Hindus who reject Jesus are no Hindus at all. Here is a 
Christian missionary who believes that he and not Hindus know what true 
Hindutva means! 


The encounters in this chapter highlight a few points. Firstly, Hindu 
intelligentsia is prepared to face unpleasant facts and draw the right 
conclusions; it is only Hindu scholarship which has failed again and again 
to study aggressive dogmas and present them as such. Secondly, there are 
people in the West who are prepared to listen provided Hindus present their 
case to them. Thirdly, there are elements in the West (as in India) who 
believe that an aggression once established cannot and should not be 
questioned, and who see scenes of civil war if the victims of aggression 
refuse to remain at the receiving end; that is what they mean when they 
extol Hindu tolerance. 




23 

Encounter with Arun Shourie 

Missiology is a meticulous discipline developed quite early in the 
history of Christianity as auxiliary to an exclusivist and aggressive 
doctrine - Jesus Christ is the only saviour; there is no salvation outside the 
Church; and infidels should be compelled to come in. By now the 
discipline has become rather rich with experience gained over several 
centuries and in all parts of the world. Many universities in Europe and the 
Americas teach Missiology in their faculties of Catholic and Protestant 
theologies. And there are a large number of Christian seminaries spread 
over many countries where Missiology is studied in great depth and detail 
by the soldiers of Christ before they commence their prowl in search of 
prey. 

As one surveys the literature of Missiology, one is struck by its close 
similarity to the Communist literature on strategy and tactics for staging 
the Revolution. One can go further and compare the two literatures - 
Christian and Communist with the literature on military science. Again, 
the close similarity is striking. One can, therefore, conclude quite safely 
that Missiology is simply another name for waging war on non-Christian 
societies and cultures with a view to conquer and convert them completely. 

The war was hot and waged with whatever happened to be the most 
lethal weapons at any time, so long as the states in Europe served as the 
secular arm of the Church. In this first phase of a permanent war, there was 
no crime, howsoever horrendous, which Missiology did not prescribe or 
endorse, and which was not practised by the holy warriors with great glee 
and clean conscience. The blood-soaked history of Christian missions 
which preceded or accompanied or followed the armies of European 
imperialism, has been narrated by the missionaries themselves. Men like 
Erancis Xavier stand out in this record as hardened criminals 
masquerading as religious priests. 

The hot war came to end only when the imperialist powers realized 
that their empires could be jeopardized if the sword was used overtly in the 
service of the cross, particularly in the countries of Asia where the infidels 



were proud of their religions and cultures and capable of coming out with 
armed resistance. Missiology was forced to devise methods of waging a 
cold war by manipulating human minds. Armed might was to be called 
into service only when missionary provocations enraged the natives and 
riots broke out. For the rest, massive finance and media power provided 
more effective weapons. 

In this second phase of the permanent war, Christian missions mounted 
vicious campaigns of calumny against the religions and cultures of the 
conquered people so that the latter could be disarmed ideologically, 
deflated psychologically, and thrown on the defensive all along the line. At 
the same time, programmes of proselytization were launched for 
crystallizing in the heart of subjugated societies whole colonies of 
converts. Country after country was honeycombed with this bastardized 
breed always ready to serve as the fifth-column of Christian-Western 
imperialism. In most cases, the converts proved to be more faithful than 
their foreign masters. 

The game was going on smoothly and satisfactorily when it was 
spoiled by the retreat of Western imperialism after the Second World War. 
What was more ominous for Christian missions, Christianity itself was 
found out and suffered a collapse in its traditional homelands. Missiology 
was now called upon to devise still more devious methods, not only for 
camouflaging the fangs of a criminal creed but also for finding a new home 
for it elsewhere, particularly in the Hindu-Buddhist countries. The lead for 
forging more sophisticated methods was given by the Second Vatican 
Council after prolonged deliberations during 1962-65. The foremost 
among these new methods was described as “dialogue”. The missionaries 
were directed to “discover whatever was of value in other religious 
traditions” and proclaim that “salvation was available” in those traditions 
as well. The fact that this concession rendered the Christian missions 
redundant was neither faced nor mentioned. The purpose of “dialogue” 
was far from honest. 

In the context of “dialogue” with Hindus, the first purpose is quite 
obvious. Hindus who participate in it recognize explicitly or implicitly that 
Christianity is a religion and that those who are out to spread it have a 



legitimate place in this country. The second purpose of “dialogue” is to 
search for and locate segments of Hindu spiritual tradition which sound or 
can be made to sound similar to some Christian tradition. A “common 
ground” between Hinduism and Christianity can then be proclaimed and 
used for conveying Christianity in Hindu attire. The third purpose is to 
probe for points of resistance which Hindu mind may harbour vis-a-vis 
Jesus Christ, the Christian message and the Christian missions so that 
mission strategy can be suitably revised for overcoming the resistance. 

Needless to say that Hindu participants have to be of different types for 
serving the different purposes of “dialogue”. The Hindu who qualifies for 
the first purpose has to be more or less ignorant of Hinduism as well as of 
Christianity. The Hindu who suits the second purpose should be somewhat 
knowledgeable about Hinduism but an innocent abroad when it comes to 
Christianity. Hindus of both types are available easily and in plenty, 
particularly because the bait of foreign trips for holding “dialogue” in 
better places and with brighter people is always there. What has proved 
difficult is the search for a Hindu who can serve the third purpose of 
‘dialogue’. 

So “dialogue” for serving its first two purposes has been going on for 
quite some time. Christian organizations qualified for holding “Hindu- 
Christian dialogue” have mushroomed all over the country in recent years. 
The proceedings are reported in the Christian press as well as in the 
publications of these organizations. Books on “Hindu-Christian dialogue” 
or “common ground” between Hinduism and Christianity have also been 
multiplying, particularly in Europe and the U.S.A. Periodicals devoted 
specifically to Hindu-Christian dialogue have also been launched. 

A dialogue for serving its third purpose could be held only in January 
1994 when Arun Shourie, the noted journalist and scholar, was invited by 
the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of India (CBCI) to present a “Hindu 
assessment” of missionary work in India. But unfortunately for-the 
managers of this “dialogue”, it went out of hand and misfired. Ever since, 
the giant Christian establishment in India has been smarting with the hurt 
which Arun Shourie has caused. The uproar he has raised can be compared 
only with the uproar which had followed the publication of K. M. 



Panikkars’ Asia and Western Dominance in 1953. Missiology has been 
mobilizing its arsenal of apologetics and polemics in order to control the 
damage that has been done to Christian claims and pretensions. 

It is difficult to say why the CBCI chose Arun Shourie for “dialogue”. 
All one can do is to infer from known missionary motives. Here was a 
Hindu, they must have thought, who was a man of stature, and known for 
his scholarship as well as pronounced sympathy for Hindu causes. His 
writings and speeches so far gave no indication that his commitment to the 
Hindu spiritual vision was profound, or that his knowledge of Christian 
doctrine and history was wide-ranging. He could, therefore, be expected to 
provide some clues to the current Hindu resistance to Christianity, and at 
the same time say something about Jesus Christ or Christianity which 
could be advertised to the advantage of Christian missions. 

The CBCI was celebrating the 50th anniversary of its foundation, and 
holding a Seminar at Ishvani Kendra, a Catholic seminary in Pune. Almost 
all the Catholic big-wigs in India were present when Arun Shourie gave 
his talk on 5 January 1994. He had been given two Conference documents 
- ‘Trends and Issues in Evangelization of India’ and ‘Paths of Mission in 
India Today’ - which the Seminar was discussing. His critique was 
confined to missionary methods, more or less on the lines laid down by 
Mahatma Gandhi during his prolonged encounter with Christian 
missionaries. Some of those present asked some questions which also were 
similar to the questions the Mahatma had been asked earlier. The 
atmosphere was cordial all through. At the end of the session, its president 
remarked, “It has been a feast.” After his return to Delhi, Arun Shourie 
received a letter dated 11 January 1994, from Augustine Kanjamala, 
Secretary to the Conference, thanking him for sparing time from his “busy 
schedule”, and requesting him to “give a presentation in writing” so that it 
could be published along with the “talks of various speakers of the 
Conference.” 

Arun Shourie completed the paper pretty fast. He gave it the caption, 
‘Missionaries in India’, and sent a copy of it to Kanjamala on 20 January 
1994 with the request that it be published with the two Conference 
documents as annexures because it had references to and citations from 



them at several places. He received from Kanjamala a letter dated 9 
February thanking him for “completing the work and sending it” promptly 
but pointing out that the paper was too long for “publication along with 
other contributors.” Kanjamala asked him if it was possible to “cut it down 
to, say, 10,000 words.” Finally, on 27 February 1994 Kanjamala came to 
meet Arun Shourie at the latter’s home in New Delhi and informed him 
that his paper ‘would be published along with responses from six or so 
persons who were working on the matter.’ 

In the two months that followed, Arun Shourie expanded his paper 
with material from the history of Christian missions in India during British 
rule. He highlighted the motives from which missionary work had 
proceeded, and the consequences it had entailed. He cited ample evidence 
to show how the work of undermining Hinduism and keeping India 
enslaved had been shared between missionary scholars and scholar 
missionaries on the one hand and the British administrators on the other. 
And he pointed out how “the genes planted then had grown into the flours 
de mal, the flowers of evil which continue to poison the perceptions of our 
elite to this day.” Finally, he offered an analysis of the two Conference 
documents to show how Christian missions had continued the same work 
of subversion in post-independence India with such adjustments as were 
dictated by the new situation. 

By the time the paper was fully elaborated, it had acquired the size of a 
book. Arun Shourie published it in early May 1994 under the title. 
Missionaries in India: Continuities, Changes, Dilemmas.- The two 
Conference documents were included in it as annexures for purposes of 
ready reference. A copy of the book was sent to Kanjamala with 
compliments and thanks “for the invitation extended” and the opportunity 
given to the author “to delve into the subject.” Meanwhile, Arun Shourie 
had written several articles on the subject in his syndicated column which 
appears in more than a score of newspapers published in several languages 
all over the country. The articles evoked a lively discussion in the 
Maharashtra Herald of Pune. 

Kanjamala was quick to acknowledge receipt of the book by his letter 
dated 18 May 1994. But what followed the acknowledgment left Arun 


Shourie aghast. Firstly, Kanjamala accused Arun Shourie of publishing 
“our seminar material without permission”, and enclosed “a corrected and 
revised version” to be included in a new edition of the book. Secondly, he 
sent an article, ‘Hinduization or Christianization’, and insisted that it be 
incorporated as a chapter in the new edition as per agreement arrived at 
“when we met each other in Delhi in February.” Thirdly, he suggested that 
the cover page of the new edition should carry his name as coauthor 
because his article and the two Conference documents would together 
form one-third of the book. Finally, he requested Arun Shourie to let him 
know “when the next edition is coming out with the revised material”, and 
promised to “promote” it. 

Kanjamala had given away the game he was playing or was forced to 
play, when he confessed in the same letter that “some people are very 
displeased with me”, and appealed to Arun Shourie to “appreciate my 
situation.” Arun Shourie was prepared to sympathize with the man placed 
in plight, perhaps for no fault of his own. But he was not at all prepared to 
concede to that man the right to invent stories, tell lies, and let his fancy 
run a riot. So he chided Kanjamala in a long letter dated 24 May 1994. The 
letters which Kanjamala had written to him earlier were still in his file. He 
used them to put the record straight. He repudiated as a total lie 
Kanjamala’s story that there was an agreement for including in the book a 
chapter written by Kanjamala. He turned down Kanjamala’s suggestion 
regarding co-authorship as contrary to his nature and practice as a writer. 
And he pointed out that at no stage before or after his talk in Pune or in the 
letters written to him subsequently, he was given to understand that the 
two Conference documents were for private circulation. In fact, he had 
been given not one but two sets of the documents with the word “Draft” 
written clearly on top of the first page in each case. 

Kanjamala wrote back that what he had conveyed in his letter dated 18 
May 1994 was due to a “misunderstanding”. Arun Shourie expressed his 
happiness to Kanjamala, and thought that the “cloud had blown over.” But 
he had not taken into account the patent missionary methods. He found 
that a vituperative campaign had been launched against his book and 
against him personally. Articles started appearing in various newspapers 
and publications of the Church, attributing motives to him and 



misrepresenting as well as .denouncing his book. Several Christian scribes 
had joined the campaign. But Kanjamala was in its forefront. 

PRAJNA BHARATI, a forum for intellectual discourse and discussion 
with headquarters in Hyderabad, invited several senior Churchmen to 
discuss Missionaries in India on a public platform with Arun Shourie. All 
of them excused themselves on one pretext or the other. At last the forum 
extended an invitation to Kanjamala. He agreed to participate in the 
discussion on the condition that he would present his critique before Arun 
Shourie gave an answer. Arun Shourie had no objection to Kanjamala 
having the first salvo. 

The discussion took place on 4 September 1994 in a big hall at 
Hyderabad. The hall was packed to capacity. The discussion and the 
question-answer session that followed lasted for three and half hours. 
Kanjamala made the following points: 

1. Literature showing Hindu antagonism to Christian missionaries 
is nothing new. The Arya Samaj had produced such literature in the 
past. Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, Bharatiya Janata Party, Vishwa 
Hindu Parishad and many other organisations are producing it at 
present. 

2. Arun Shourie has written the book for a specific readership in 
mind, namely, the people belonging to Hindu organizations, and with 
a specific purpose in view, namely, to present Christian missionaries 
as enemies of the nation. 

3. The missionary and allied literature cited by Arun Shourie in 
support of his main argument pertains to the colonial period of India’s 
history. It was written in a different context and is, therefore, dated 
and irrelevant in the present situation. 

4. Conversations of Gandhi with Christian missionaries, writings 
of Vivekananda, and conclusions of the Niyogi Committee Report 
also belong to a bygone age. They relate to an antiquated world view, 
mission view, mission theology, concept of salvation, role of 
Christian missionaries and evangelization. 



5. Arun Shourie’s book is aggressive and his interpretation of data 
exaggerated. His strategy is negative. He has a hidden agenda because 
nowhere in his big book he says anything positive about the work and 
contribution of Christian missionaries. He is preoccupied with 
missionary activities aimed at conversion. He has not even mentioned 
eminent Christian scholars such as Bede Griffiths, Klaus 
Klostermaier, Abhishiktananda, Sara Grant, Amalorpavadas, 
Amaloor, Raimundo Panikkar, M. M. Thomas etc. whose 
contributions to Indian thought are well-known. 

6. Arun Shourie has not taken into account the lead given by the 
Second Vatican Council. He has quoted from CBCI documents which 
were only working papers of a seminar but not referred even once to 
the statement- issued by the CBCI at the end of the seminar. 

7. Recent Christian thinking on missionary activities has a very 
positive attitude to all the world religions. The primary motive of 
these activities is not conversion. The old mission idea of salvation is 
on the way out. 

8. Arun Shourie says that missionary activity should be subject to 
public scrutiny. But who will be the scrutinizer? India’s parliamentary 
and judicial systems are in decline. Government of India is biased 
against Christian missions. 

9. Conversion movement among Scheduled Castes, Scheduled 
Tribes and some backward communities is simultaneously a protest 
movement, and not necessarily a salvation movement. Hindu society 
has sections to whom social liberation has great appeal. Ambedkar 
had also led a similar protest movement. 

10. Christian missions are blamed for trouble in the North-East. 
But the trouble is not due to religion; it is politics, the same as in 
Punjab and Kashmir. Why should Arun Shourie choose the North- 
East in particular? 

11. The question is often asked that if salvation is possible in 
other religions, what is the usefulness of Christian missions? The 


answer at present is that missions witness and express God’s love and 
promote love, justice, peace and human dignity. 

12. Christianity is 2000 years old in India, while missionary work 
is only 500 years old. For a. long time, the government in India was 
on the side of the missions; yet Christians remain an insignificant 
minority in this country. It should be obvious that Christianity poses 
no threat to Hinduism; yet Christians are being subjected to physical 
attack in all parts of the country, particularly in the Hindi belt. 

13. The small Christian community, a mere two percent of the 
total population, has made great contributions in the field of 
education, medical help, and care of the poor and the destitute. 
Christian missionaries like myself are always prepared to suffer great 
hardships and travel to distant places in order to render service. 

14. Even a staunch critic of Christianity like K. M. Panikkar has 
admitted that clauses of the Indian Constitution which pertain to the 
welfare of Scheduled Castes and Tribes, are a Christian contribution. 
There are only a few people who are willing to stand on the side of 
the poor and the marginalised. Gandhi had tried his own experiment 
but failed. What remains now is the Christian missionary experiment. 

15. Arun Shourie has spared not even Mother Teresa in his book. 
But she is the ideal for a majority of the missionaries. 

Kanjamala ended his critique with a prayer of Mother Teresa, and 
another of St. Francis of Assissi. 

Arun Shourie developed his rejoinder along the following lines: 

1. Christian missionaries have made great contributions in many 
areas. Many missionaries have been dedicated people. Nobody in 
India’s public life is opposed to Christian propagation of faith. 
Kanjamala should not fight battles with imaginary enemies. 

2. Christians in India are open to a dialogue, unlike the Islamic 
community which has stamped out dialogue by its verbal terrorism. 



The CBCI dignitaries deserve tribute for inviting discussion. 


3. The book contains quite a few references to the positive 
contributions made by Christian missions. Kanjamala should have 
read the book with greater care. He has misrepresented the book in 
several other instances. He should read again pages so and so. 

4. Missionary attacks on Hinduism were not mistakes; they were 
gross exaggerations and wholesale distortions made with a purpose. 
Swami Vivekananda and Gandhiji pointed out repeatedly that the 
motive of these attacks was to malign Hinduism. Even so it is 
admitted that these attacks helped to hasten the work of Hindu 
reformers. 

5. Hindus by and large did not get converted to Christianity, not 
because the missionaries did not try but because Hindu society has 
always had inner strength. 

6. It is wrong to say that missionaries could have used state power 
for effecting conversions. The fact is that state power was not 
available to them. By the time British rule became established in 
India, Christians in Europe had become humanised and overt use of 
state power was not allowed for conversions. Islam had used state 
power during its rule. Eook at the result. If today the Indian 
Constitution is changed to say that Eundamental Rights guaranteed in 
Chapter Ill are available only to Hindus, you will see Christians and 
Muslims flocking to the Hindu fold. 

7. Kanjamala says that Arun Shourie has not spared even Mother 
Teresa. But the book does pay handsome tributes to her. Kanjamala’s 
comment, therefore, is not a good example of Christian honesty. 

8. Kanjamala says that 85% of the Christian priests do not want 
conversion. Yet conversions go on, covert and overt. The book 
provides evidence, not about methods of conversion used in the past 
but about methods which are being used at present. 



9. It was only when the book was published that Kanjamala 
started proclaiming that the Conference documents reproduced in it 
were confidential. This is dishonest. On the other hand, the document 
which he offers as the final statement, is a whitewashed document. 
The author could have been held guilty if he had published some 
selected passages from the earlier documents. But he has published 
them in full at his own expense. He did so because unlike the “final 
statement”, the earlier ones are candid and straight-forward. 

10. Citations from old missionary literature are being dismissed 
by Kanjamala as belonging to a bygone age. But the sophisticated 
slander they carried has been internalized by the Indian elite. That is 
why our country stands bewildered today. That literature is, therefore, 
not yet dated. Moreover, Kanjamala’s own articles in the press 
published recently prove that the sophisticated slander continues. 

11. The book does discuss changes in missionary thinking and 
cites the Conference documents in this connection. Had it dealt with 
changes supposed to have been introduced by people like Bede 
Griffiths, the author would have landed in court on a charge of 
defamation. 

12. The current missionary literature contrasts Jesus Christ with 
Rama, Krishna and Mahadeva, and says that while the former died 
and rose on the third day the latter died for good. The author can cite 
what the latest biblical scholarship says about Jesus. But he does not 
want to go into that at present. Even the gospels carry contradictory 
stories about Jesus. 

13. Kanjamala says that Arun Shourie has a hidden agenda. Arun 
Shourie has no need to hide anything. He says openly that he wants to 
save the country from the sweet poison which missionaries are 
spreading about Hindus Shastras, Hindu Gods and Goddesses, and 
Hindu Avatars. How would Kanjamala feel if somebody wrote the 
same way about Jesus and Mary Magdalene? 

14. The world has to be grateful to Pope John for bringing back 
compassion in the Christian doctrine. But the CBCI Secretary’s 



Report views this change with great concern. The Report mourns that 
the new doctrine has killed the motive for missionary work, namely, 
conversions. The Church in India finds it difficult to accept the 
change. 

15. The fact is that the change has been brought about by the 
collapse of Christian belief due to progress of science and technology. 
The some thing has happened to Marxism. Islam is bound to meet the 
same fate. 

16. Kanjamala refers to the Nazi persecution of Jews. It is, 
however, Christians who have persecuted Jews for 2000 years. That 
was because, by an act of fraud, the gospels shifted the responsibility 
for killing Jesus from Pontius Pilate to the Jews. 

17. When the book refers to missionary subversion in the North- 
East, it quotes not some RSS source but a report of the Joint 
Intelligence Committee of the Government of India. The author has 
changed only the names of places and persons mentioned in the 
report. But the means and methods employed by the missions come 
out clearly. Kanjamala’s own articles say how they are alienating 
converts in the North-East from the rest of India. 

18. Christian missions claim that they have brought about a 
change in the social status of converts. But the CBCTs own report 
admits that there has been no change, and discrimination against Dalit 
Christians continues in the Church. Christian missionaries are now 
agitating for reservations for Dalit converts. All that the missions 
have succeeded in doing is to spread abominable superstitions among 
the Harijans and tribals. 

19. Christian scholarship is quite mischievous. It has distorted 
India’s history. Eor instance, the national heroes of the 1857 rebellion 
against British rule are being presented as villains. This scholarship 
says that tribals are not Hindus. People should read the discussion in 
Census reports about how to describe the tribals. There was a 
deliberate attempt to name them as non-Hindus by inventing new 
terms like “animists” etc. Christian missionaries are continuing the 



fraud. The same method was used by missionaries like Macauliffe to 
separate Sikhs from Hindus. Ambedkar also fell into the missionary 
trap in respect untouchables when he demanded separate electorates 
for them. Kanjamala gives the recent example of Hindus converting 
to Buddhism at Patna. He does not mention the quarrel that arose 
when it was discovered that the show had been financed by a 
Christian group. Christian missions happen to be patrons of people 
like Rajasekhara Chetty and Kanshi Ram, and the poison they emit. 

20. Kanjamala claims that Christian missions are working for the 
welfare of tribals. But when Sarvodaya workers or the RSS starts 
welfare activities such as schools in the tribal areas, the missionaries 
are up in arms. The fact is that they are not bothered about welfare of 
any people. All they are trying to do is to find a new home for 
Christianity in the poor countries because Christianity has collapsed 
in Europe and North America. Modernization has bankrupted the 
Church everywhere. That is why the Church is worried over 
untouchability dying out in India. 

21. Christian missionaries should be honest when they try to 
convert anyone. The person should be informed about what the latest 
biblical scholarship says about Jesus Christ. He is no longer an 
historical figure. The convert should not be kept in the dark about the 
rationalist critique of Christianity and the Bible. Otherwise the 
convert is bound to suffer from tension when he or she learns the true 
facts later on. 

Arun Shourie ended his answer by examining the prayers d by 
Kanjamala. He found them full of “our”, “I” and “me”, meaning the 
Church and the Christians. Why pray for only one community? Why not 
for all people? The Upanishad prayers, he said, breath a different, a 
universal spirit. 

There were some questions at the end. Kanjamala repeated the same 
arguments as earlier, though in a different way. Arun Shourie fixed him 
again with new quotations from missionary literature, and more facts about 
missionary work. 



While I prepared for publication Arun Shourie’s encounter with 
Kanjamala,-1 noticed a few weaknesses in the former’s argument. 

Firstly, a Hindu does not have to subscribe to the negative-positive 
syndrome in respect of the work of Christian missions. There can be 
nothing positive about poison which is what Christian missions have been 
and remain. One need not subscribe to Mahatma Gandhi’s preposition that 
Christian missions quickened Hindu conscience and expedited Hindu 
reform movements. Hindus had been reforming and renewing their society 
long before Christianity was born, and did not have to wait for Christian 
missions to stand up and perform. Moreover, the reform movements 
inspired by Christian missions have only derailed Hindu society and made 
it ape the Christian-Western model. 

Secondly, Hindus are not called upon to do homage to a Christian hoax 
like Mother Teresa. She is a synthetic product manufactured by Christian 
media power and prize-distribution devices. All she has done is to portray 
Hindu society in nasty and negative colours. It is time that Hindus see 
through the humbug. 

Thirdly, the Christian attempt to date its historical record should be 
viewed in the context of Christian dogma which has created that record. So 
long as the dogma remains constant, the record cannot be dated, no matter 
how soft the new verbiage happens to be. The Christian argument that old 
missionary writings should be overlooked as belonging to a bygone age, is 
absolutely phoney. 

Fourthly, there is no evidence that Pope John or the Second Vatican 
Council brought back compassion in the Christian doctrine. The statement 
implies that the Christian doctrine did have compassion to start with and 
had lost it at some stage. This is not true. The doctrine was cruel and 
aggressive at its very birth. Pope John can at best be credited with realism 
which made him see the collapse of Christianity in the West, and give a 
call for change of tactics so that Christianity could secure another home. 

Meanwhile, another musketeer of the Christian Mission in India was 
trying to engage Arun Shourie into another duel. Vishal Mangalwadi with 
headquarters in Mussoorie, U.P., wrote ten letters to the author of 


Missionaries in India between 8 August 1994 and 21 September 1995. 
Arun Shourie glanced at the first letter and consigned it to where it 
belonged - the waste-paper basket. The others that followed remained 
unopened and met the same fate. He had better things to do than go 
through the garbage collected by a professional practitioner of suppressio 
veri suggestion falsi. Mangalwadi published his letters in the form of a 
book in early 1996. “I had hoped,” he mourned, “that Mr. Shourie would 
reply to my letters, so that eventually we could publish our dialogue - 
perhaps jointly. However, since he chose not to, these letters are now 
placed before the reader as a monologue 

In his Tetters’, Mangalwadi tries to look very learned. He consumes a 
lot of verbiage but says very little. He cites many books like his own, and 
drops any number of names which nobody except his own tribe has ever 
heard. He also advertises that he has been on frequent trips abroad, and 
spoken on varied subjects in different countries. But none of it is likely to 
impress the reader who knows what the whole-time hirelings of Christian 
missions are doing normally and non-stop - spilling ink, trotting the globe, 
and blowing hot air - while dwelling on the one and only theme, namely, 
that Christianity has a monopoly over Truth with capital T. “God has 
revealed the Truth,” says Mangalwadi, “in His Word (the Bible).” Those 
who have read the Bible with the eyes of European Enlightenment, can 
only comment that Jehovah does not cease to be the Devil he is simply by 
being labelled as God, and that-the most wicked book known to the history 
of mankind does not cease to be so simply by being sold as ‘His Word’. 

Eor the rest, Mangalwadi’s 524-page monologue can be summarized in 
a few sentences. He wants us to believe that the Christian missions have 
been, and remain, “a conspiracy to bless India”, and that the atrocities to 
which this country was subjected during the British rule should be blamed 
on people like Clive. It is the same stereotyped song which a whole tribe 
of Christian scribes has been singing over the last several decades in order 
to salvage Christianity from its horrible history. But unfortunately for the 
tribe, the history of Christianity and its missions everywhere has been 
documented in great detail by Western scholars. What is more, in days not 
very distant, the hawkers of “the only saviour” have themselves chronicled 
their gory deeds with considerable pride. These first-hand accounts leave 


little doubt that Christian missionaries were the most criminal elements in 
the colonial establishments of the West, and that the teaching which 
activated them came from Jesus Christ. Secular colonialists like Clive had 
caused only physical injuries to the conquered people, and robbed them 
merely of material wealth. The soldiers of Jesus Christ, on the other hand, 
uprooted their victims from the latter’s spiritual habitat, and deprived them 
of their souls. Mangalwadi himself is an excellent example of what 
happens when a Hindu embraces Christianity. 

A word about the jargon with which Mangalwadi starts his exercise. 
He dismisses Arun Shourie by pigeon-holing him as ‘postmodern’. He 
does not know that Hinduism has its own view of Time, and that a person 
who serves Sanatana Dharma cannot be dated. Scholars like Arun Shourie 
belong neither to the past, nor to the present, nor yet to the future. They 
belong to a timeless span. By the same logic the history of Christianity 
cannot become dated so long as its basic theology remains intact. It is no 
use changing verbiage. What needs changing is the dogma, namely, that 
Jesus Christ is the one and only saviour. 

Footnotes: 

-ASA Publications, New Delhi, 1994. 

- In his letter dated 18 May 1994, Kanjamala referred to the 
documents as “draft report” and to the statement as the “revised and 
corrected version” of the “draft report”. He sent it to Arun Shourie 
after Missionaries in India was already in print. How could Arun 
Shourie refer to it in the book? Moreover, the statement reflected 
nothing of the “draft report”, namely, the two Conference documents. 
It consisted entirely of stereotyped missionary claims and slogans. 

- Arun Shourie And His Christian Critic, Voice of India, New 
Delhi, 1995. 

- Introduction to Missionary Conspiracy: Letters to a postmodern 
Hindu,yiussoont, 1996. 



24 

Fixing a Christian Windbag 


The United States of America is a land of sharp contradictions when it 
comes to matters of faith. On the one hand, it is the land of Thomas 
Jefferson, Tom Paine, James Madison and Mark Twain who distrusted or 
denounced or ridiculed the Christian dogma and scripture in unmistakable 
words. On the other hand, it is the land of the most fanatical and 
fundamentalist Christian sects each one of which will have not only the 
USA but the whole world exclusively for itself. On the one hand, it is a 
land where the spiritual vision of Hinduism and Buddhism finds ready 
audience, and flourishes. On the other hand, it is a land where blind belief 
systems like Christianity and Islam whine and whimper, and brainwash 
any number of victims. The key to understanding the scene lies in the 
history of this land. 


Bloodthirsty fanaticism which characterises the biblical creeds was 
unknown to the Pagans who had lived for long and in peace with their 
environment and every variety of worship in the vast stretch which is now 
known as the United States. But the scene was disturbed from the early 
sixteenth century onwards when wave after wave of Christian sects from 
Europe poured in, destroyed the Pagans as well as Paganism, and occupied 
the whole place. Most of these sects were Protestants, the Puritans from 
England and elsewhere being the dominant element among them. They 
were fleeing from persecution in Europe at the hands of the Catholic 
Church and other Protestant sects. They viewed themselves as the chosen 
people and looked forward to creating a total Christian society in 
accordance with their own tenets in what they viewed as the Promised 
Land. But as has been usual with Christian sects throughout the history of 
Christianity, it was not before long that these sects fell out among 
themselves, and took to heresy-hunting and witch-burning. 



The Promised Land was heading towards becoming another hell like 
Europe when fortunately for it the European Enlightenment entered it in 
the eighteenth century. The founding fathers of the Republic and the 
framers of the United States Constitution were secularists who believed in 
the freedom of religion and left the choice of belief to individual 
conscience. The warring Christian sects were thus kept at bay, and Deism 
and Atheism came to flourish with increasing speed. Buddhism, 
Confucianism, Taoism and Hinduism also entered the scene, significantly 
since the second half of the nineteenth century, and the US people started 
getting informed more and more about spiritual traditions which were 
radically different from Christianity. The USA became a melting pot of 
faiths as it had been a melting pot of races, peoples and cultures. It 
continued to be honey-combed with Christian sects and cults which 
multiplied fast and into thousands. But, by and large, it remained a land of 
liberal humanism.. 


Meanwhile, the USA was becoming a land of big money and big 
business, particularly during the twentieth century. Christianity followed 
suit and became a big business through the mechanism of missions sent 
out for saving the heathens in Asia and Africa. Huge amounts of money 
were collected from gullible Christian communities by portraying the 
heathens as starved in body and soul and hungering for Jesus Christ. 
Media power was used to the hilt. Missions provided lucrative careers to 
crude and illiterate cowboys trained for a few months in seminaries which 
went on multiplying. Multinational corporations also moved in to help the 
missions because the culture which the missions spread increased the 
demand for US manufactures. The State Department and the Pentagon saw 
the missions as useful agencies for gathering intelligence and planting 
misinformation. All in all, Christian sects could collect and spend billions 
of dollars and employ millions of people for selling Jesus Christ like fast 
foods and other items of modern consumerism, it is not unoften that we 
hear scandals about how some clever people embezzle big slices of money 
collected for missionary work. 



Ram Swamp reviewed in The Times of India dated 13-14 March 1988 
the Mission Handbook North American Missionaries Overseas published 
in the USA in 1986. He quoted several books on how Hindus and 
Hinduism are viewed by some Christian sects in the USA. The Texas- 
based Gospel for Asia group looks down upon Hindus “as a living 
example of what happens when Satan rules the entire culture”, and sees 
India as “one vast purgatory in which millions of people... are literally 
living a cosmic lie!” Dayspring International, a Virginia-based evangelical 
organisation, describes India as a land of “division, despair and death” in a 
television programme and quotes Mother Teresa in holding that India was 
“in dire need of Jesus.” In fact. Mother Teresa is often quoted by and 
shown on Christian controlled electronic media in the USA for painting 
India in the darkest colours. 


The top TV Evanglist, Pat Robertson, has become well-known in 
recent years for his loud-mouthed harangues against Hindus and 
Hinduism. He is leader of the Christian Coalition and represents the 
conservative Christian community as well as the Christian right-wing of 
the Republican Party in the USA. He is also a billionaire businessman 
whose empire has its tentacles in all comers of the world. He reaps rich 
rewards from diamond and gold mines and thousands of acres of rain 
forest in Zaire. President Mobutu of Zaire is notorious for human rights 
violations, and has been debarred from entering the USA. But Robertson 
has tried to pressurise President Bill Clinton for lifting the ban on Mobutu. 
Successive US ambassadors in Zaire have complained that Robertson is 
undermining US foreign policy in that part of the world. In any case, 
Robertson got shot into fame when he made a bid for the US presidency in 
1988. 


On 23 March 1995, Robertson appeared on the “700 Club” TV show 
which he controls, and started by saying that Hinduism was devil-worship 
and despicable idolatry responsible for India’s poverty and other ills. “Of 
all of India’s problems,” he proclaimed, “one stands out from the rest. That 
problem is idol worship. It is said that there are hundreds of millions of 



Hindu deities. All this has put a nation in bondage to spiritual forces that 
have deceived many for thousands of years.” According to him, Hindus 
“are out to kill other human beings in the name of their God.” And he 
appealed to his countrymen to keep Hindus and Hinduism out of the USA. 
“We are importing Hinduism into America,” he mourned. “We can’t let 
that stuff come into America” he warned. At the same time, he assured his 
audience that Hindus were hungering for and in desperate need of Jesus 
Christ. 


I came to know of the whinings of this Christian windbag from an 
article in the monthly Hinduism Today which had given his address and 
advised Hindus all over the world to register protest. The first thing I did 
was to airmail to him a copy of Jesus Christ: An Artifice for Aggression in 
order to let him know what we Hindus think of the garbage he is out to 
sell. I followed it up with a letter dated 15 July 1995 which read as 
follows: 

Dear Mr. Robertson, 


Some friends in the USA - the country of Thomas Jefferson, 
James Madison, Walt Whitman and Mark Twain, and a land par 
excellence of liberal humanism have drawn my attention to your 
recent fulminations against Hinduism, Hindus, and India. 


My first reaction was sheer amusement at this latest spectacle of 
patent Christian tantrums. I am familiar with what Christian 
theologians, missionaries and windbags have been saying about our 
religion, our people, and our country since the days of St. Hippolytus 
(230 AD), more particularly since 1542 AD when that Patron Saint of 
Pirates, Francis Xavier, reached our shores. Thousands of shelves in 
hundreds of Christian seminaries in India and abroad are laden with 



the pornography which soldiers of the Only Saviour have produced 
down the centuries. 


I also know that you have to make a living for yourself,- and 
collect money for maintaining the giant missionary apparatus in this 
country as well as keeping within your fold the rice Christians you 
have managed to collect during the past four hundred years. I can see 
that the only way you can do it is by selling to your gullible people 
the Big Lie that we are an accursed rabble hungering for Jesus Christ. 
You are neither the first nor likely to be the last in this cynical 
enterprise. I have witnessed how Mother Teresa has flourished and 
become a world figure by plying the same trade with a straight face. 

On second thoughts, however, I have decided to pen the line that 
follows. 


Firstly, I plead that we are living in an age when sinners are 
coming forward to apologize to the sinned against. I cannot believe 
that you are unaware of how the Germans have apologized to the 
Jews and the Japanese to the Koreans. And I think it is high time for 
Christians to apologize to the Hindus. The crimes which Christian 
missionaries have committed in this country since the days of Francis 
Xavier have been documented by Christian scholars themselves. 


Secondly, I wish to point out that you have got your priorities 
wrong. Instead of trying to save the Hindus, you should better try to 
save whatever has survived of the totem by which you swear. I have 
airmailed to you a copy of Jesus Christ: An Artifice for Aggression in 
which I have compiled the conclusions of Christological research in 
the modern West. It is too late in the day for you to exercise yourself 
about Hinduism and the Hindus. It may be more profitable for you to 


address your own dwindling flock in what was once known as 
Christendom. 


Thirdly, I like to draw your attention to the fact that we Hindus 
are an ancient people and have survived many storms including those 
mounted by Islam and its elder blood brother - Christianity. We were 
here long before your Jehovah and Jesus were invented by the 
diabolical drives in human nature and hurled upon an unsuspecting 
humanity. And we will be here long after the Bible starts selling as 
waste paper on pavements around the world. Try to remember the fate 
of Hitler’s Mein Kampf and the Collected Works of Lenin and Stalin .- 


For, Hinduism is a spiritual culture which is intrinsic to the human 
species, and has never been in need of big battalions, or big money, or 
big media in order to back it up. Hinduism knows how to And its way 
to human hearts, no matter how desperate the effort of contrived 
creeds to shut them tight against all higher aspirations. Hinduism is 
Sanatana Dharma, the Perennial Wisdom and Virtue. It is no use 
spitting at the Sun. 

Regards 

Yours Sincerely 

Sd. 

Sita Ram Goel Mr. Pat Robertson, 


CBN, 977 Centerville Turnpike, 
VIRGINIA BEACH, VA 23463-0001, 
U.S.A. 


Meanwhile, Shri Bharat J. Gajjar who lives and works in Washington 
had contacted Robertson’s Christian Broadcasting Network and protested 
against the venom being vomited by its star performer. He received a letter 
dated 4 August 1995 from Robertson which said: 

Dear Bharat, 


Thank you for contacting CBN concerning our program 
presentation on Hinduism. I appreciate this opportunity to respond to 
you. 


r m sorry you objected to my comments. It is not my intent to 
offend anyone because of their religion, and I want you to clearly 
understand that I do believe in religious freedom. It is guaranteed in 
the Constitution of the United States and everyone has the right to 
believe as they wish. However, though I respect the rights of others, 
please understand that I have a responsibility to speak the truth. The 
truth is that the Hindu faith has absolutely nothing to do with Cod! 
The Bible tells us that there is only one way to hit the mark and that is 
to come to Jesus Christ. Jesus said in John 14:6, “I am the Way, the 
Truth, and the Life: NO MAN COMES TO THE EATHER, BUT BY 
ME.” 


I don’t make the rules - God makes the rules. He said if you don’t 
come through Jesus Christ, there is no entrance into heaven. Those 
who believe they can come to God any other way, whether it be by 
New Age, Hinduism, Mohammed, or through any other person or 
thinking are being deceived. 



It is our continual prayer at CBN for all people to come to a 
saving knowledge of the truth of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. God is 
not willing that any should perish. Thank you again for this 
opportunity to respond to you. 

Yours in Christ, 

Sd. 

Pat Robertson 


A copy of Robertson’s letter to Gajjar was received by Ram Swamp. 
He wrote the following article which was published in several US 
periodicals including Hinduism Today: 

Mr. Robertson invited many critical comments from the Hindus. 

To one such Hindu critic, Bharat J. Gajjar, Robertson replied. This 
reply is as important to the American Hindus as his earlier TV 
statement which HINDUISM TODAY reported [July, 1995]. The 
reply is in some ways more than a fulmination. It is a credo, an 
ideological statement and deserves a different kind of notice. 
Moreover, Robertson’s mental blocks are not his alone but widely 
shared. Therefore, to discuss them would be all the more useful. I 
shall therefore reply to his reply here. 


In his letter to Mr. Gajjar, Robertson says that he had no intent “to 
offend anyone,” and that he wants it to be understood that he believes 
in “religious freedom” - this is reassuring after his previous 
performance. But he also adds that while he respects the rights of 
others, he has “a responsibility to speak the truth.” He tells us that 
“the tmth is that the Hindu faith has absolutely nothing to do with 
God!” He adds in lively Americanism that “there is only one way to 
hit the mark and that is to come to Jesus Christ. Those who believe 
they can come to God any other way, whether it be by New Age, 



Hinduism, Mohammed or through any other person or thinking are 
being deceived.” At the end, he modestly states, “I don’t make the 
rules - God makes the rules.” 


The reply is brief but rich in traditional Christian theology. It 
reveals in a clear profile the unchanging face of Christianity, a 
Christianity which still lives in medieval times and refuses to change. 
It gives in a few sentences the most important elements of Christian 
theology: a single or exclusive God, an equally single and exclusive 
channel of reaching him and a conception of truth which requires no 
self-preparation, a truth which is ready-made and can be had by 
simply looking up a particular book. 

Biblical God 

First, about Hindus having no God, though they have more often 
been accused of having too much of it. Let us readily admit that 
Hindus do not have a God of the Biblical tradition, the God of 
Robertson’s familiarity. Their God is not Jehovah, an exclusive God, 
a jealous God, a God that denies other Gods. In the Vedas, the oldest 
scripture of the Hindus, Gods are often invited to “come together.” 
They are praised “conjointly” and it does not offend any one of them. 
Vedic Gods live in friendliness, they do not deny each other. 


This approach was shared by the Chinese, Egyptians, Greeks, 
Romans and most other advanced cultures and peoples. The Greeks 
had no difficulty in recognizing their God in the Gods of the Hindus. 
It is the Semitic tradition which sees their devils in the Gods of 
others. 



This negative view derives from another basic Biblical concept - 
that their God is the only one, the only true God. True, this view 
implies that there are other Gods, but it is freely and repeatedly stated 
that they are “false”, they are “abominations”, and they are to be 
dethroned. 


Hindus have no God of this description. True, they too often 
describe their God as one, ekam, but they also call him many, aneka. 
Strictly speaking, Hindus do not believe in one God, they believe in 
one Reality, ekam sat. They do not say “there is only one God”; they 
say “God alone is.” The unity of Hindu God is spiritual, not 
numerical. He pervades all. He is one in all and the same in all. He is 
also beyond all. Semitic religions have no such concept. Hindu 
spirituality is mystical and theological, not credal and ideological. 

Exclusive Intermediary 

Now we turn from an exclusive God to an exclusive savior. The 
two stand together. In this too, Robertson is saying nothing new, but 
repeating the old Christian doctrine of “No salvation outside the 
Church”, now modified in this ecumenical age to “No salvation 
without Jesus Christ.” In his support, he quotes the Bible as his 
authority. This is a curious way of arguing. You assume what you 
have to prove, put it in your own book and then cite it as your 
authority. It would be considered dull-witted in a sophomore, but in a 
Christian preacher it makes a bright and clinching argument. 


Revelatory religions work through mediators and intermediaries. 
In these ideologies, first there is a God of strong preferences and 
hatred. He chooses a people, but even to them He does not reveal 
himself directly. He makes His will known to them through a favored 
intermediary who in turn has His apostles to broadcast His message. 
The next links in the chain are evangelists read “televangelists” in the 



modern conditions. The message is received by one but preached and 
relayed by others who had no share in the revelation. Their merit is 
greater if they do it with strong hands and in perfect faith and are 
troubled by no intellectual scruples or conscience. 


In this too the Hindu tradition differs completely. In this tradition, 
God resides in man’s heart, and He is accessible to all who seek Him 
in sincerity, truth and faith. In this tradition, God is man’s own 
innermost truth and the seeker finds Him in the cave of his heart. In 
this tradition, God reveals Himself directly to the seeker and needs no 
specially authorized savior, no go-betweens. 


Here we may also make another point. Since Hindu spirituality 
recognizes God in man, it also recognizes great goodness in him. On 
the other hand, ideologies which deny man’s sacred Godliness also 
deny his essential goodness. They find man basically sinful, and 
unfortunately also treat him so. Of course, no one need deny that 
there is much in man which is not Godly, but let us not make it into a 
dogma of the depravity of human nature. Let us also become aware of 
man’s other dimension, his Godliness and goodness. 

Soul Searching 

Hinduism teaches that as one goes deeper into oneself, one meets 
deeper Gods. An external and impure mind gives only external Gods. 
This leads us to Robertson’s idea of truth and his responsibility to 
speak it. In Hindu conception, one’s truth cannot be greater than one’s 
seeking. In this conception, truth does not lie in some quotable 
passages of a book. It has to be known through a culture of the spirit, 
through great seeking, tapes, purity and self-inquiry. Let Robertson 
himself find whether he fulfills this condition. 



Hindu spirituality is yogic. It is found everywhere, though not 
always equally developed. It is found among the wise men of Egypt, 
Greece, Mexico and China. Today, it is in its most preserved form in 
Hinduism. Hinduism preserves the ancient wisdom of many nations 
and cultures, their Gods and their insights which they lost under the 
onslaught of monolatrous creeds. Spiritual humanity needs renascent 
Hinduism for its self-revival. 


Robertson wants to keep out Hindus from America. But would he 
be able to keep out Hinduism from the seeking humanity? Hinduism 
resides in all seeking hearts and whenever man’s seeking, for Gods 
becomes spiritual, Hinduism, or the tradition of Sanatana Dharma, 
automatically comes in. In what way and how long could man’s 
innermost truth be kept away from Him? 

Several months have passed but Robertson has neither replied to my 
letter nor commented on Ram Swamp’s article. Does he feel surprised by 
the discovery that Hindus can also hit back? For a long time, Christian 
warriors have been used to Hindus taking it lying down. Or does he feel 
confident that he can take in his stride the recent Hindu re-awakening as 
well? His predecessors in the Christian missionary enterprise had felt the 
same way. 

We wonder. 

Footnotes: 

- 1 did not know at that time that Robertson was a business tycoon 
and a big moneybag on his own. 


- The last two sentences in this para comparing the Bible with the 
works of Hitler, Lenin and Stalin were censored out by most papers 
which published this letter; such is the awe inspired by this wicked 
book. 



25 

Calling the Pope’s Bluff 


The Papacy started as a crimes cartel which it has remained throughout 
its long career. But the collapse of Christianity in the West and the retreat 
of Western imperialism has forced it to change its methods, and function 
more and more like a multinational corporation. Buyers for its stale and 
discredited merchandise -Jesus Christ, the only son of the only God and 
the only saviour from eternal perdition - are becoming increasingly scarce, 
and it is no more in a position to thrust the garbage down people’s throats. 
Earlier, the pope spoke and the others had to listen. Now the pope is, 
prepared to answer question. He is, however, not yet ready nor equipped to 
go beyond his copybook. 

The Italian Radio and Television had requested Pope John Paul II to 
appear on its network for a question-answer session on the occasion of his 
completing fifteen years of his office in October 1993. The person chosen 
for putting the questions to him was Vittorio Messori, a media man and a 
believing Catholic. It was planned that the interview would he transmitted 
to electronic media around the world. The Pope had agreed but could not 
keep the appointment due to other preoccupations. A few months later 
Messori was asked to present his questions in writing. The Pope’s answers 
were then published in the form of a book in 1994.- The book would have 
passed into history as another Catholic raving but for the storm it raised 
among the Buddhists of Sri Lanka. The Government of Sri Lanka had to 
mobilize thirty thousand policemen and an army squad in order to provide 
protection to the Pope during his visit to the island republic in 1995. 

Messori has arranged his questions and the Pope’s answers in an odd¬ 
sized (11 X 20 cm.) volume. The pages covered by the whole exercise 
number around 200, taking into account the large spaces left empty at the 
beginning and end of each chapter. It is printed in double-spaced lines and 
with wide margins on the right and the left. It has no table of contents. The 
chapters are not numbered so that it looks more like a travel guide or 
children’s book than a dissertation on some august subject, except for the 


fact that it carries no illustrations. 


Some of the chapters are devoted to the time-worn tenets of 
Christianity. They are as follows: 

1. “The Pope”: A Scandal and a Mystery. 

2. Does God really exist? 

3. “Proof’: Is it still valid? 

4. If God exists why is he hiding? 

5. Is Jesus the Son of God? 

6. Why is there so much evil in the world? 

7. Why does God tolerate suffering? 

8. What does “to save” mean? 

9. Why so many religions? 

10. Buddha? 

11. Muhammad? 

12. Judaism? 

13. Is only Rome right? 

14. Why divided? 

15. Does “eternal life” exist? 

16. What is the use of believing? 

17. The Mother of God. 

Other chapters relate to praying, centrality of salvation, Christians 
becoming a minority by the year 2000, the Church and the Council, 
qualitative renewal, reaction of the world to the Pope’s claims, God’s hand 
in the collapse of Communism, hope for the young, new evangelization, 
search for the unity of churches, human rights, defence of every life, 
women, not being afraid, and the scope for hope in the future. These are 
either supplementary to the main subjects, or comments on current issues 
faced by the Catholic Church. 

The Pope’s answers are brimful of citations from the Bible. He quotes 
35 verses from Genesis, 2 from Exodus, 4 from job, 6 from Psalms, 2 from 
Proverbs, 10 from Isaiah, 2 from Ezekiel, 8 from Matthew, 15 from Mark, 
33 from Euke, 123 from John, 15 from Acts, 33 from Romans, 30 from 1 
Corinthians, 6 from 2 Corinthians, 8 from Galatians, 7 from Ephesians, 7 



from Philippians, 10 from Colossians, 5 from 1 Timothy, 9 from 2 
Timothy, 11 from Hebrews, 2 from 1 Peter, 7 from 2 Peter, 16 from 1 John, 
and 8 from Revelations - a total of 403 verses of which 59 are from the 
Old Testament and the rest from the New. He quotes some Church canons 
also and employs a few mystagogic Greek and Latin words. Thus the 
Pope’s performance is no better than that of the meanest parish priest who 
has crammed the same scriptures and is quick to quote from them. In any 
case, it does not occur to him that the same authorities have been quoted 
by his predecessors for saying just the opposite of what he says now. 
Messori is awestruck simply because firstly he shares the Pope’s 
conviction that the Bible is the Word of God, and secondly because as a 
believing Catholic he regards an audience with the pope a rare privilege. 

Ram Swamp’s attention to the Pope’s performance was drawn by the 
happenings in Sri Lanka. And he himself wrote a book- as a contribution 
to the “dialogue” which Christians say they are now carrying on with non- 
Christians. The “dialogue” has been “guided” most of the time because, 
during the long period of its domination, Christianity ‘has conditioned our 
minds’ not only about how we look at it but also about how we look at 
ourselves. But things have changed and now the others “have their own 
thoughts about it as well as about themselves.” 

The Pope’s book, according to Ram Swamp, “departs from the pre¬ 
colonial era” only in so far as it “discusses non-Christian religions.” 
Earlier, the Church had seldom taken “any official notice of them”, or 
dismissed them “as handiwork of the Devil.” For the rest, the book “says 
nothing new” and “merely reiterates Catholics’ traditional position.” The 
Pope has advanced the same old “claims for Christianity’s God, its 
founder, its Apostles, its Church, its officials, its rites.” Only the language 
is new. The Pope believes that “old half-lies will make one new, whole 
truth.” 

The “copious documents” of the Second Vatican Council use the words 
“Hinduism” and “Buddhism” only once, though the Council is supposed to 
have inaugurated a new era in Christianity’s view of non-Christian 
religions. Pope John Paul II is more generous and “devotes several pages” 
to “Buddhism and Eastern Yoga.” But the “generosity” has been forced on 


him because Hinduism and Buddhism are now “better known among the 
Westerners, they attract the more educated, the more serious and seeking 
type among them.” The concessions he seems to make amount to very 
little or nothing. There is only “a change of language and not of heart.” 
Even the concession in language makes him feel “uncomfortable” so that 
“as soon as he makes the concession he takes steps to withdraw it.” 

Speaking of Buddhism, the Pope starts by conceding that it is a 
religion of “salvation”. But he asserts in the next breath that Buddhist 
“salvation” is the opposite of Christian “salvation” because it is based on a 
“negative enlightenment.” Buddhist “salvation”, he says, comes from 
“indifference to the world” while Christianity frees people “from the evil 
through the good which comes from God.” This is quite in keeping with 
the centuries-old Christian propaganda that Indian religions are 
“pessimistic”, “fatalistic” and “other-wordly” 

Ram Swamp tells the Pope that in Christian history “this good 
included persecution and genocide of heathens and their conversion, it 
included Inquisition, burning of heretics in hundreds of thousands for their 
own good - burning their bodies in order to save their souls.” On the other 
hand, the “negative enlightenment” of the Buddha means “negation of 
greed and hatred, negation of ego and delusion, negation of false views 
(drishTi) - which would include negation of deluded ideologies and 
theologies, negation of infatuation with self-assumed roles like ‘the white 
man’s burden’, or the ‘divine mandate’ of the missionaries to convert the 
world, negation of da'wah and JihAd” Small wonder that those who have 
“no inkling of a higher life” find this Buddhist negation “unpalatable and 
call it ‘negation of life’, the only kind of life they know.” In any case, it 
was not so long ago that “Christianity took pride in being other-worldlyT 
Christian theology anticipated the “end of the world” at any time, and 
warned people that they would ensure eternal damnation for themselves if 
they remained preoccupied with this world. 

The fact is that “negation is eminently a Yogic concept and it is 
regarded as necessary for self-exceeding and self-transcendence.” Yoga 
teaches that “there is much in life which has to be negated so that life can 
be ‘affirmed’ in its more luminous aspects.” There was no dearth of people 



who used to sympathize with the Buddha because they thought that he was 
leading a life of “deprivation”. The Buddha used to tell them that “his life, 
his worlds, and joys were incomparable.” It is wrong to think that “the 
worlds and life and joys of nirvANa are negative.” NirvANa is “not 
nothingness but fullness, pUrNam of the Upnishads.” The experience is 
“expressed in the language of negation” because there is nothing 
comparable to it in ordinary experience to which language is normally 
suited. 

Coming to Christian salvation. Ram Swamp says that “there is near 
total silence on the subject. We are told that there is Resurrection and 
Judgement - and these are interpreted not as parables and morals but 
literally as events in the most physical plane. The man rises with his body 
and nothing is said about the regeneration of the soul. He rises with his old 
body with the same old desires and hankerings and infatuations. If he is an 
unbeliever, he is condemned and goes straight to hell or Fire, to a life of 
eternal punishment. But if he is a believer, he is ‘saved’ and sent to 
heaven. Muslim theologians have spoken of the joys of the ‘saved’ at 
length - untiring copulation and gourmandizing. Christian theologians 
have added some more. One of the greatest joys of the ‘saved’ according 
to them is that they would watch, from their balcony in heaven, 
unbelievers and heretics roasting in hell.” 

Christian missionaries have been taking credit for what the modern 
West has achieved by disowning Christianity. The Catholic Church in 
particular has been the greatest enemy of science. But the Pope repeats the 
big lie. He praises “Western Civilization” for its ''positive approach'' to the 
world and claims that the “achievements of science and technology” are 
rooted in “ancient Greek philosophical tradition and Judeo-Christian 
Revelation.” Ram Swamp reminds him of the “relentless war” which the 
Church has waged on “Greek religion, sciences and freedom.” The Pope 
should remember the “Inquisition which persecuted free enquiry and 
scientists throughout its career”, of the "Syllabus of Errors (1864) which 
found everything wrong with science.” The age-old struggle between 
science and Christianity is still continuing. 



At any rate, it makes no difference whether Christianity claims to be 
this-worldly or other-worldly. Christianity lacks innemess and 
compassion, and both the claims amount to the same thing - both are 
projections of an external mind. “Under either name the nature and aims of 
the Church have remained unchanged, and it has continued to play a cruel 
and destructive role; it has taught and exercised hatred and enmity towards 
‘unbelievers’, it has been making pretentious claims and has been 
assuming an egoistic and deluded role. Its whole approach is based on 
spiritual arrogance and deluded assumptions - on anAtma, to put it in 
Buddhist language.” 

The Pope is mighty worried over the inroads which Hinduism and 
Buddhism, particularly the Yogas, have been making in the West. He 
warns against them in his present book. “It is not inappropriate,” he says, 
“to caution those Christians who enthusiastically welcome certain ideas 
originating in the religious traditions of the Far East - for example, 
techniques and methods of meditation... In some quarters these have 
become fashionable... First one should known one’s own spiritual heritage 
well and consider whether it is right to set it aside lightly.” This is in 
keeping with the warning issued in December 1989 by, the Vatican’s 
Sacred Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith. 

Ram Swamp discusses what Christianity has to offer as its “spiritual 
heritage”. The Bible knows no meditation. The New Testament talks only 
of “sin, repentance, the expected end of the world.” This view inspired 
scourging. Christians went in processions through the cities led by the 
Bishop. All of them scourged themselves. Those who did not, “were held 
worse than the Devil.” Even today there are “Revivals” where “crowds of 
Christians weep over their sins.” Then there was “speaking in tongues.” 
But it was difficult to decide when the voice came from the Devil and 
when from the Holy Ghost. In due course, the Devil became the primary 
preoccupation of the Church. “He was busy everywhere but particularly in 
the monasteries and nunneries and in the Christian countryside. Here men 
and women made pacts with the Devil; women even copulated with him 
though without much satisfaction for his organs were icy cold.” Millions 
of women were denounced as witches and burnt at the stake. 



Today we hear a lot about “Christian mysticism”. But Christianity has 
never known any mysticism on its own. Whatever mystics arose in 
medieval Europe were due to contact with Paganism, particularly Neo- 
Platonism. And they were invariably denounced by the Church as inspired 
by the Devil. The pope hounded out Scotus Erigena till the man died 
“pierced with the iron pens of the boys.” Eckhart escaped the Inquisition 
by dying before he was discovered and denounced. “Practical minded 
Churchmen thought that contemplation gave more trouble than it was 
worth; others like Bousset saw danger of the dogmatic truth being 
obliterated by a ‘cabal of mystics dominated by women’.” 

Now that Yoga and mysticism have become known in the West, 
Christian theologians have started talking of “experience” and “states of 
consciousness” - words which were never known to them earlier. Christian 
missionaries go about masquerading as “Hindu sannyasins” and establish 
“ashrams”. The Pope also compares “Eastern mysticism” with “Catholic 
mysticism”. He dismisses the former as “born of negative enlightenment” 
and hails the latter as “born of the Revelation of the Living God.” Ram 
Swamp draws our attention to the history of Christianity and tells us “how 
living and kicking this God has been - a veritable militant and even 
terrorist in the Church’s cause.” Eastern mysticism is based on Yoga - the 
technique of self-purification par excellence. Revelatory religions have no 
concept of the “forces that keep a man bound to lower impulsions and 
perspective, to a life of love and hate (kAma-krodha), ego and delusion.” 
They are non-Yogic religions rooted in rAga-dveSa - self-love and hatred 
of others. They project ‘narrow and impure Gods - egoistic Gods, 
hegemonistic Gods.’ Such Gods can hardly be called spiritual. 

The Pope also attacks the New Age Movement in Europe. He sees in it 
a “return of ancient gnostic ideas under the guise of the so-called New 
Age.” Ram Swarup tells us why “those who manage Christianity find it 
disturbing.” The Movement “is based on no single idea but is made of 
various ideas and strands.” What characterises it most is that its adherents 
‘find the religion and culture of their birth narrow and unsatisfying’ and 
have revolted against their Christian heritage. “They seek new sciences, 
more compassionate ways of living, holistic and non-violent systems of 



health.” They are attracted by Taoism, Hinduism and Buddhism because 
they “find in them truths which their own deeper mind was seeking.” 

The Pope’s identification of the New Age Movement with Gnosticism, 
however, has a whole history into which Ram Swamp goes in some detail. 
“To start with,” he says, “Christianity was Judaic but as it tried to enter the 
Gentile world, it sought a new idiom. It made an alliance with Gnosticism 
which, in one way or another, was the real religion of the Graeco-Roman 
elite. It tried to give Christian apocalyptic beliefs a deeper meaning. 
Christianity gained immensely from this alliance.” But when Christianity 
became the state religion of the Roman Empire, it denounced Gnosticism 
as a heresy. Gnostic literature, which was considerable at one time, was 
ruthlessly destroyed so that nothing - was known about it till the discovery 
of fifty-two Gnostic texts at Nag Hammadi in Upper Egypt in 1945. 

The Nag Hammadi texts tell us a lot about what the Gnostics thought 
of man and God, of Jesus and his suffering, of martyrdom, baptism, 
resurrection etc. Hindu-Buddhist influences had become operative in the 
Graeco-Roman world in the form of Gnosticism. Christianity which was a 
political movement of one God, one Saviour and one Church, could not 
tolerate a spirituality of pluralism and deeper search. So its struggle 
against Gnostic ideas became increasingly bitter till it succeeded in 
stamping out the rival root and branch. 

The Pop cannot forget the old enemy who is raising its head again 
under a new name. And he is not alone in his hostility to the New Age 
Movement. Other denominations of Christianity have also noticed and 
denounced it as “age-old lies of Satan himself’ and “the influence of 
Eastern religions” which “best represent the lies of Eden.” “They say that 
the Devil does not expect Americans to become Hindus right away, but his 
strategy for the time being is to take them beyond the one true God and 
His Son, Jesus Christ.” Pat Robertson says that the New Age Movement in 
America “is the same thing” as Hinduism. He calls for an offensive against 
it as the best defence. 

Ram Swamp has also commented on the Pope’s new approach to 
Judaism. An attempt is on to make people forget what Christianity did to 
the Jews for many centuries and prepared the theology of the Nazi 



Holocaust. Even now the Pope hopes “Judaism can find its fulfilment in 
Christianity.” in like manner, the Pope flatters Islam to a certain extent but 
says at the same time that “Islam is not a religion of redemption” and that 
it “completely reduces Divine Revelation.” Thus an effort is on to forge a 
united front of monotheistic religions, forgetting that mutual conflict and 
strife is inherent in the their very character. Each of them has its own 
prophet, its own revelation, and its own claim of superiority over others. 

He goes on to show how the “dislike” of “alikes” arose. Judaism was 
the religion of a “special people” with a “special God”. Christianity 
“embraced the Judaic God but denied his people.” Islam also “embraced 
the Judaic God and the Judaic prophets but dropped the Jews. “In all these 
religions “there is no concept of mankind and no concept of a universal 
God.” Through Islam and Christianity, this God of a chosen people has 
tried “to become the God of all through conquest and slaughter.” So the 
problem is not of “reduced revelation” as the Pope sees it. The problem is 
of “reduced spirituality” which the three revelatory religions share in 
common. “They have a reduced concept of Godhood, of man, and of their 
relationship.” The God of the chosen people “refused to reveal himself 
directly to them.” Man in these religions was reduced to a vital-mental 
being without a spiritual dimension. Einally, spirituality was “reduced to a 
narrow form of theism - monotheism, which in turn was reduced to 
monolatry and prophetry.” 

In the last chapter of his critique Ram Swarup deals with the claim of 
the Pope about himself. Church Rites, Hell, Ecumenism, world 
evangelization etc., and shows how Christianity has been and remains 
cruel or ridiculous. The Pope’s book is die-hard Christian theology once 
again. It is the same old garbage about “God’s great love for man so that 
he sacrificed his only son to atone for man’s sin.” What is, however, 
intriguing about the above, comments Ram Swarup, “how the Christian 
theologians know all these things. If they knew about themselves even a 
fraction of what they claim to know about God and his Sons and 
Grandsons and his purpose and plan in history, they would have done very 
much less mischief.” 



Science and Eastern influences have subverted Christianity. It has 
collapsed in its traditional strongholds. The Pope is only giving a pep-talk 
when he says, “Be not afraid.” What he really means is: “Be not afraid of 
making claims for Jesus, for the Pope, for the Church. Be not afraid of 
claiming that the Christian God alone is true, that Jesus is his only and 
begotten son, that salvation belongs to Christians alone, that the Church 
alone knows the truth and is the sole custodian of salvation. Be not afraid 
if the statements sound like nursery tales. Brazen it out. Say them and 
repeat them with a straight face and you will pass through. They may 
sound preposterous and arrogant to your own ears but your faith is on trial. 
Don’t fail. Allow no intellectual or moral scruples to come in the way of 
your faith.” 

Footnotes: 

- His Holiness John Paul II, Crossing the Threshold of Hope, New 
York, 1994. 

- Pope John Paul II on Eastern Religions and Yoga: A Hindu- 
Buddhist Rejoinder, Voice of India, New Delhi, 1995. 


Bibliography 

Arun Shourie and his Christian Critic, Voice of India, New Delhi, 

1995. 

Bates, M. Searle, Religious Liberty: An Enquiry, New York 1945. 

Barrett David B. et al. Seven Hundred Plans to Evangelize the World, 
Birmingham, Alabama, U.S.A. 1988. 

Buchanan, Claudius, Memoirs, London, 1805. 

Burke, Marie Louis, Swami Vivekananda in America, Calcutta, 1958. 

Chuvin, Pierre, A Chronicle of the Last Pagans, Cambridge, Mass, 
USA, 1990. 

Constituent Assembly Debates, Volumes III, V and VII, New Delhi 
1947-49. 

Das, Sisir Kumar, The Shadow of the Cross, New Delhi, 1974. 

David, M. D. (ed.). Western Colonialism in Asia and Christianity, 
Bombay, 1988. 

Dayananda, Maharshi, SatydrthaprakAsha in Hindi, Delhi, 1975 
Impression. 

Desai, Mahadev, Day to Day with Mahatma Gandhi, 9 volumes, 
Varanasi, 1968-1974. 

Downs, F. S., Christianity in North East India: Historical Perspectives, 
Gauhati, 1983. 

Duboi, Abbe, Hindu Manners, Customs and Ceremonies, Fifth Indian 
Impression, CUP, 1985. 



Gandhi, M. K., Christian Missions, Their Place in India, Ahmedabad, 
1941. 

Gandhi, M.K., The Collected Works, 90 volumes. New Delhi, 1958 
-1984. 


Gandhi, M. K., Hindu Dharma, Ahmedabad, 1950. 

Goel, Sita Ram, Papacy: Its Doctrine and History, Voice of India, New 
Delhi, 1986. 

Goel, Sita Ram, Defence of Hindu Society, Voice of India, Third 
enlarged edition. New Delhi, 1994. 

Goel, Sita Ram, Catholic Ashrams: Sannyasins or Swindlers?, Voice of 
India, New Delhi, 1995. 

Goel, Sita Ram, Jesus Christ: An Artifice for Aggression, Voice of 
India, New Delhi, 1995. 

Gopal, Sarvepalli, Radhakrishnan: A Biography, OUP, 1989. 

Gospel of Sri Ramakrishna, The, Volume I, Madras, 1985 Impression. 

Hinduism Today, monthly from Hawai, U.S.A., February, 1989. Indian 

Church History Review, December 1967, July 1970, June 1972, 
December 1973, June and December 1981, December 1985, December 
1988. 

Ishwar Sharan, The Myth of St. Thomas and the Mylapore Shiva 
Temple, Second Revised Edition, Voice of India, New Delhi, 1995. 

Jeevadhara, A Journal of Christian Interpretation, New Delhi, 
September, 1988. 


Johnson, VwX, A History of Christianity, London, 1978. 



Jyotirmayananda, Swami, Vivekananda: His Gospel of Man-Making, 
Second Edition, Madras, 1988. 

Keshavmurthi, Sri Aurobindo: The Hope of Man, Pondicherry, 1969. 

Majumdar, R. C. (ed.). The History and Culture of the Indian, People, 
Volume II, The Age of Imperial Unity, Fourth Edition, Bombay, 1968; 
Volume X, British Paramountcy And Indian Renaissance, Second Edition, 
Bombay, 1981. 

Mangalwadi, Vishal, Missionary Conspiracy: Letters to a postmodern 
Hindu, Mussoorie, U.P., 1996. 

Mitter, Partha, The Much Maligned Monsters, Oxford, 1977. 

National Christian Council Review, The, 1945, 1946,1947 and 1956 
volumes. 

Nehru, Jawaharlal, Glimpses of World History, OUP reprint. Fourth 
Impression, 1987. 

Neill, Stephen, History of Christianity in India: The Beginn-ings to 
1707 AD, Cambridge University Press, 1984. 

Panikkar, K. M., Malabar and the Portuguese, Bombay, 1929. 

Panikkar, K. M., Asia and Western Dominance, Eondon, 1953. 

Panikkar, Raimundo, The Unknown Christ of Hinduism, Eondon 1964. 

Plattner, Felix Alferd, The Catholic Church in India; Yesterday and 
Today, Allahabad, 1964. 

Pope John Paul II, Crossing the Threshold of Hope, New York, 1994. 

Price, Rev. J. Frederick et al (tr.). The Private Diary of Anand Ranga 
Pillai, 12 volumes, Madras, 1904. 



Priolkar, A.K., The Goa Inquisition (Bombay, 1962), Voice of India 
reprint. New Delhi, 1991. 

Ram Swamp, Introduction to D. S. Margoliouths Mohammed and the 
Rise of Islam, New Delhi Reprint, 1985. 

Ram Swamp, Introduction to Anirvans Inner Yoga (Antaryoga), New 
Delhi, 1988. 

Ram Swamp, Ramkrishna Mission in Search of a New Identity, Voice 
of India, 1986. 

Ram Swamp, The Word As Revelation: Names of Gods, New Delhi, 
1980. 

Ram Swamp, Pope John Paul II on Eastern Religions and Yoga: A 
Hindu-Buddhist Rejoinder, Voice of India, New Delhi, 1995. 

Report of the Christian Missionary Activities Enquiry Committee, 
Madhya Pradesh, 3 Parts, Nagpur, 1956. 

Shiva Rao, B., The Eorming ofindias Constitution, 5 volumes, 
Bombay, 1967. 

Singhal, D. R, India and World Civilization, Volume I, Calcutta, 1972. 

Tagore, Rabindranath, Gora, A novel translated from Bengali into 
English, Calcutta, 1961 Impression. 

Tambaram Series, Volume 3, Evangelism, Eondon, 1939. 

Temple, Richard, Oriental Experience, London, 1883. 

Thirty-four Conferences Between the Danish Missionaries and 
Malabarians (or Heathen Priests), London, 1719. 

Thomas, M. M., The Acknowledged Christ of the Indian Renaissance, 
Second Edition, Madras, 1976. 



Thomas, R, Christians and Christianity in India and Pakistan, 
London,1954. 

Transfer of Power 1942-47: The Quit India, London, 1971. 

United Nations and Human Rights, The, UNO, New York, 1984. 

Vatican Council II: The Conciliar and Post Conciliar Documents, 
Bombay, 1988. 

Vivekananda, Swami, The Complete Works, 8 volumes, Calcutta, 1985 
impression. 

Young, Richard Fox, Resistant Hinduism, Vienna, 1981. 
