A 


Geographical, Statistical, And Historical 


DESCRIPTION 


HINDOSTAN 

AND THE 

ADJACENT COUNTRIES 


WALTER HAMILTON, Esq. 


VOL. I 


ORIENTAL PUBLISHERS 

1488. Pataudi House, Darya Ganj, 
DELHI-6. 



R». 75.00 $ 25.00 

first INDIAN REPRINT. 1971 : Published by Inder Jeet Sbarma 
for Oriental Publishers. 1488, Pataudi Hcxise, Darya Ganj. DELHl.6, 
and Printed by F C. Sharma at Luxmi Printing Works. DELHI^. 



ID 


THIS nmirr nnNmTRAm.K 

GEORGE CANNING, 

FRESmm OF TOE BOABD OF CONTBOTJL, 

Sfc» Sfc* SfCn 


Sir, 

1 HAVE the honour of dedicating to you the Mowing 
Description of Hindostan, the a&irs of which you have so ably and 
impartially administered, as a testimony of my great respect tor your 
public and private character, and of gratitude for the liberal access 1 
have had to the records at the India Board. 

1 have the honour to remain. 


Your ohedi^f Immlile Servant, 

WALTER HAMILTON 


London) June 1, 1820> 




PREFACE. 


The following work may be considered as an endeavour to reduce the 
Geography of Hindostan to a more systematic form than has yet been 
attempted in any prior publication, and at the same time to present a 
description of its internal economy more consistent with its existing con- 
dition, as a vast appendage to the British empire.— Thirty years have 
now elapsed since Major Rennell composed his excellent memoir on the 
same SiitJjCct; but the revolution ot time and events has so altered its 
political circumstances, and the progress of discovery our knowledge of 
its geography, that even within so short a period many of his valuable 
observations have become antiquated and inapplicable. The juncture 
also seemed favourable to a new arrangement, the result of the late ope- 
rations in India having so completely established the supremacy of the 
British government, as to letive the native chiefs in a situation of very 
secondary importance. Hindostan, therefore, must not now be viewed 
as a mere assemblage of Nabobs, Sultans, and Rajas, but as a compo- 
nent portion of British empire, changed and modified in its territorial 
distribution by the effect of British domination, and in its internal 
economy by the promulgation of British laws and regulations. 

In prosecution of the object above specified, and in order to ^ve dis- 
tinctness and application to the facts collected, Hindostan has been 
partitioned into certain large territorial divisions, the arrangement of 
which will be found further explained in the Introduction, and whose 
relative petition and extent may be leatmed from an inspection of the 
prefixed map. In Hindostan Proper and the Deccan, the old Mogul 
provinces of Abul Faael have been cmitinued, as notwithstanding the 
Viebstttides of ages ^y stE maintatn their 0m m tiie public mmd, 



PREFACE. 


in 

and are sufficiently accurate for the purpose contemplated. With respect 
to .the South of India, as it hAs been for almost twenty years governed by 
British functionaries, their arrangements and appellations have been ad- 
hered to. For the first of the series, Bengal has been selected, not only 
because it contains the modern metropolis and seat of the supreme 
government, but also on account of the superior importance of the 
materials from which its description is composed. The other provinjices 
follow in succession according to contiguity, the arrangement entirely 
resembling what would take place were a delineation of England beghn 
with the county of Kent, and continued on county by county to t^e 
banks of the Tweed. Each province is introduced by a general expo- 
sition, after which the towns, districts, and native states (if any) follow, 
until the whole space comprehended within its limits has undergone 
examination ; but with regard to amplitude of narrative, that has en- 
tirely depended on the abundance or scarcity of authentic documents 
having reference to the subject under discussion. In some instances, the 
historical details will be found copious, while the geographical and statis- 
tical are defective, or altogether wanting ; in others the reverse will be 
perceptible. 

In specifying the extent of countries, the whole length, but only the 
average breadth is given, to enable the reader to ascertain the probable 
area in square miles. In an arrangement of this nature strict accuracy 
cannot be expected, but it appeared less vague than the usual mode of 
stating the extreme len^h and extreme breadth; an approximation to 
the reality being all that is required. The same observation applies to 
the population of countries that have not been subjected to strict inves- 
tigation. When such occur, a comparison of their peculiar circum- 
stances is instituted with those of the adjacent provinces, the populatiicm 
of which is better known, and an estimate computed from the re»ilt. 
Where tiie number of inhabitants has been established on probalde 
grounds, it is particularly mentioned. To ffidlitate the diMXwery of a 
place on the map, besides the latitude and longitude, its nenrestdlstiuice 
from some distinguished city is stated, and alio tim pioviiice 
wl^h it js comprehended. The east, west, north, and south sides Mjf 



PHEFAC^. 


rirerst and the compass distances, in a ipreat majority of cases» to 
their position In Mr. Arrowsmith's large map; the length of the rivers, 
including their windings, are calculated according to the rules laid down 
in Major Renneirs Memoir, from which also the travdling distances are 
extracted. When not otherwise specified, the standard of distimce lurd' 
dimension is invariably the English mile, to die degree. Those m^- " 
ti(med by Abul Eazel are commonly the extreme length and extreme 
breadth, and the quotas of troops he enumerates mean the whole milida 
(probably the Zemindary Pykes) that the province was supposed capalrie 
of furnishing on any pressing exigence, not the actiml numbor ever pro* 
duced. 

* 

The map prefixed exhibits the large geographical divisitms, but being 
constructed on so small a scale, it was found impossible to distmguish 
either the petty native states, whose territories are much intemiixedt or 
the different districts into which the British provinces have been par- 
titioned. With respect to the first, no native ^te has yet been brought 
to understand the advantages we are accustomed to see in a Cfmtjj^t 
territory and uninterrupted frontier; and with r^;aid to the lad^« jbe 
limits of none can be considered as finally adjusted, die judicial and 
police arrangements requiring frequent revisal of boundaries, and various 
surveys being still in progress, with the view of obtaining more accurate 
geographical and statistical information than the Indian govmnmmits at 
present possess. Owing to these imperfections a town may be frequentiy 
assigned to one jurisdiction which in reality bdongs to another, but the 
mistake is of no essential importance, and many such correctiems muttt 
hereafter be required, the limits of no district having yet attained such 
precision and arrangement as to preclude the necessity of future altmn- 
tion. The descriptions which follow, having been composed and ar- 
ranged witii the cl(^est m;tention to Mr. Arrowsmith's large map 
IBndostan, that w’ork may be considmed as the baws of the whol^ aii4 
Indeed is quite indispensable to any person who wishes to acquire a 
tiiq^ugh knowledge of its geography. To thatdelineation, therefore, neariy 
sJI the latitudes, longitudes, and distances have reference ; but of course 
jpaa&y of will hereafter experkmce conection, tiic very best mi^^* 



VJIt 


PREPACE. 


although right in the main outlines, bang still deficient in accuracy as 
to the relative position of places. In like manner the local functioiiaiSfiS 
will probaWy see much to amend with regard to the comparative im- 
portance of the towns selected, some, perhaps, having now no existence 
^though of great historical notoriety, while others may be too insi^- 
ficmit to desen^e insertion in a work where others of greater magnitude 
have been omitted. When the narrative and the prefixed map disagree, 
the first, as being founded on a projection of super or authenticity, i^ust 
be considCTcd the roost correct. 

A primary object of the present publication having been to combine 
fiicility of reference with the connexion necessary to adapt it for regular 
{lerusal, a copious Index of the names of places is given at the conclu- 
sion, by the assistance of which the reader will be enabled to have re- 
course directly to the article he is in search of, while at the Same time 
in the narration the conbiiual transitions of a gazetteer are avoided. In 
arranging the alphabetical distribution the usual difficulty has been ex- 
perienced, resulting from die great diversity of appellations employed to 
designate the same place, a source of perplexity not only to the geogra- 
pher, but to every individual who has occasion to peruse letters dated 
from the interior of India. In the following work (as in a prior cme) 
almost die whole of ]\lr. Arrowsmith’s names of places have been 
adopted, as. being those most universally known, and to facilitate tbe 
dbcovery of their situations in his map. In many of the most rema^- 
able instances the ori^nal denomination is also inserted, acconiingto Sir 
William Jones’s Orthographical System; but although a name be not 
striedy applicable, if generally understood, it is de^rabb it should con^ 
dnue permanent, as a deviation even to one more appropriate camel 
much confusion. If some. stejM be not taken by the ruling autiioiibbi. 
at home and abroad, the ultimate decision rqgafding the 
tion of names not of frequent occurrence may be kmg pitKiiaitiQi^^ 
but, in the mean time, many of die principal, such as Bengal, Cidcttila, 
^ Carnatic, &c. although in reality erroimous, have been ludvmially 
adapted, and certainly answ^ every aseful imi^ose. Under ^me 
I It u extremely deuialde that ^ Honemabb Coail ^ 





h 


Dtrectom ttiake adheuoii to one set of nwam (to be fixed on at tbe <jlf- 
tout Fresidoieies) imperative on thmr servants, and prolttlntthe substi* 
tutioa of any supposed improvements in the pnyio corrmpoodeoee# 
Ibe dmtites of the Hindoos have still a greater variety of nanaesy or 
rathcar epithets, dian their towns (Vishnu, lor example, has one thousand) ; 
the most common have been selected and adhered to throoid'^oiit, and 
die mme plim has bemi followed with regard to the designation of per** 
SODS, tribes, and castes. In die composidon of dm narradve, oriental 
terms have been usually avoided, but, from the nature of the suh^ecd* 
could not be wholly dispensed with. Of those of most fieqimnt recur* 
ence an explanation will be found in the short Glossary annexed. 

The materials from which this description of Hindostan has been 
prepared, consist of printed documents generally accessible to tb^ 
public and of tlie manuscript records deposited at the India Board, 
regarding which a few explanatory observations will be necessary. H 
IS the practice of each presidency to transmit half yearly, or aceofdhi^ 
to the exigence more frequent reports on the political, finanoid, and 
judicial condition of their respective governments, accompanied 1;^ 
copies of the correspondence that has taken place with dieir 
nate functionaries, and registered on the government consultatioiis, wliiei 
the subject was of sufficient consequence to entitle it to the attentiki 
die controuling authorities in England, or otherwise iUuimralive 
important conclusion. These official records are 
but thqir contents rarely bear direedy on statistical subjeks, dm 
skins having generally originated in some accidental 
m the robbery of treasure, disputed boundariMes and odmr 
of difficult adjustment, the irruptions of fordgn tribea, 
revoioe, or the pupillage of native chiefs ; occarioiMffi[y firam 
taneous suggestions of the officers of govemmoiti and 
the notice of the Court of Direcion widi a vimt fis 
dim of such as mii^t appear calctdated in pmvn of 
Whom tm evenis similar to 
imkj ^ wfi 

trim# s. 





X 


PEEFACE. 


of the territory has remained so completdy unnoticed, that the circum- 
stances of many of the Company's old districts of great tvealth and 
, population are less known to the public than those of remote tracts, the 
very names of which are recent discoveries. 

To the foregoing description of the manuscript records, as not having 
direct reference to tlie subject, one remarkable exception opcurs, 
which is, the survey of the districts of Dinagepoor, Rungpoor, PUmeah, 
Boglipoor and Bahar, by 1 )t. Francis Hamilton (late Buchanan),\who 
was deputed by the Bengal government, in the years 1807, 8, 9> 10,\and 
11, to ascertain and repoit on their internal condition, which task he 
executed %vith such singular ability and success, that it is to be regretted 
his reports w'ere not immediately published by the East India Company, 
not only for the instruction of their own servants, but as models tor 
future investigations of a similar nature. The mass of valuable informa- 
tion thus collected is comprehended in twenty-five folio volumes, ac- 
companied by most elaborate statistical tables, and contains copious 
illustrations of the manners, customs, religion, &c. of the inhabitants. 
Frequent reference to them will be found in the following work, the plan 
of which, however, and the vast space embraced, precluded all circum- 
stantial delineation of particular portions. 

Among the other manuscript reports, but on a much less expanded 
scale, the following may be noted, viz. Mr. Sisson, on the Rungpoor 
district and the adjacent tribes of Bootan, Assam, the Garrows, and 
Morung ; Lieutenant A. Ross, on the Alpine tract comprehended be- 
tween the Sutuleje and Jumna; Mr. N. Macleod, on Lassaand Tibet; 
Colonel Alexander Walker, on Catty wav and the Gujerat peninsula; 
Captain Maemurdo, on Cutch and Cattywar; Mr. Thackeray, <m 
Canara, Malabar and the Balaghaut Ceded Districts ; Sir Heniy Wel- 
lesley, on the Ceded Districts of Oude ; Lieutenant White, the Agra 
and Delhi provinces ; Mr. C. Lloyd, on the district of Moradabad ; 
Captain Cunning on the Birman !^pire ; #nd Sir David Ochterfemy, 
on the petty Seik States. The valuable prints teporte by Sif HjWttjr 
Strachey, Sh^omas Munro, Mr. Hodgstm, Mr. 
wilt be found in the Appendix to the 5th Report: “ 



mEFACE. 


» 

The Rttthorities upon which each description is founded are carefuUy 
sulb^ined in succession, according xo their relative importance, the 
autiunr being particularly desirous to pVe the credit where it is justly 
due, as well as to establish the high character of the sources from whence 
the eri^nal information is derived. But no person is to be considered 
wholly responsible for any article, the materials being frequently so in- 
timately blended with each other, and with the result of the author's own 
experience during a ten years' residence in India, that it would be 
impossible to define the boundaries of the respecirive properties. In 
many cases the narrative is given as closely as the necessity of con- 
densing the substance of many volumes into a small compass would per- 
mit : in otiiers it has been necessary to compare contradictory and con- 
flicting testimonies, and select that which appeared to rest on the most 
solid foundation. In particular instances, which it has been found im- 
possible to discriminate, although certain names are annexed as autho- 
rities for 'statistical facts, the inferences drawn from these as to the 
progressive, stationary, or declining state of the society, are exactly the 
reverse of those adopted by the individuals quoted. In the ofiScial cor- 
respondence of the different presidencies, the surveys and reports of one 
functionary are sometimes incorporated with those of another, or cited 
without the marks of quotation, so that occasionally the statement of 
one public officer may have l>een attributed to another ; but with all these 
disadvantages it will be clearly perceptible, that the details were gene- 
rdly collected under circumstances singularly favourable for the obtain- 
ing of information, and by persons best qualified from length of service, 
residence on the spot, and established reputation, to form a correct 
judgment of their authenticity. 

At the conclusion of the second volume a List of the Authorities will 
be found, and it will no doubt be remarked, that many of the ablest 
servants of the company, those for example who- have been promoted on 
account of their superior talents to the office of secretary, or to aaeat in 
Council, are seldom or never referred to by name. 'Hiis, however, aris^ 
from the nature of the documents they wore concerned in, which nm 
tbaving been the composition of any individual, but the reittit of the 

hit 



Xll 


PREFACE. 


deliberations of the different boards in a collective capacity, their con- 
tents could not be ascribed to any particular person. Such recor4s 
have been distinguished in the list by the appellation of “ Pul^ manu- 
script documents,'' and indeed, with regard to statistics, must have bem 
compiled from the prior reports of the local functionaries, l^t more 
has not been done in this respect by the latter, will surprise no one who 
is acquainted with the intolerable load of business, both civil and crir 
minal, by which they are oppressed, and the unwearied endeavours of , 
a great majority to accomplish their arduous and responsible duties. 
Whatever laws may be enacted, or measures of policy be adopted, for 
the government of such distant possessions, inhabited by a people so dis- 
similar in language and manners to the European nations, their efficacy 
must essentially depend on the character of the functionaries to wdiom 
their execution is delegated. That these have hitherto been equal to the 
exigence, the page of history leaves little reason to doubt ; and that they 
have not degenerated may be fairly presumed from the high reputation 
of tlie three candidates (Sir John Malcolm, the Honourable Mr. Elphin- 
stone, and Sir Thomas Munro) who recently presented themselves for 
the governments of Bombay and Madras. 

The composition of this publication having been undertaken with a 
view to the information of persons who have never visited India, and 
as a substitute for the numerous volumes in which the local descriptions 
are dispersed, not only Oriental phrases have as much as possible been 
avoided, but also every abstract or intricate discussion, as tending to 
injure the utility of a work in its nature elementary. The necessity of 
condensation also precluded all minute details or the investi^tion of 
disputed facts, and rendered it requisite in most instances to contract 
the historical part to a chronological series of sovereigns and remarkable 
events, accompanied by such observations as appeared necessary to, 
connect and elucidate them. Indeed the labour has been chiefly that; 
of selecting, comparing, arranging, and condensing ; and the sbe^ of 
manuscript perused in the course of it, were so numerous, tiiat the wtxrk 
miglit have been expanded to an indefinite biflk. In gmierid whAt 
appeared most interesting and important, with a view ^er to political 



PREFACE. 


sm 


applicatbn, or as illustrative of the state of society, has been selected, 
and such usages described as have subsisted for the greatest length of 
time with the fewest variations or infringements. Conciseness has been 
particularly aimed at, but probably the reader who views two such pon* 
derous volumes will think with doubtful success. It must be recollected, 
however, that it is impossible to describe so vast and populous a country 
in a small compass, , or by a few general phrases, none of which apply 
universally ; and that unless the information conveyed has distinct and 
local reference, it leaves no definite impression on the mind. Although, 
in some cases, owing to a redundance of materials, much has been sup- 
pressed and expunged, in others the descriptions will be found extremely 
incomplete, exhibiting little more than the geographical features of the 
tracts under examination, yet most of these have been repeatedly 
traversed by British Officers and civil functionaries, who either pre- 
served no memoranda of their condition, or when they did, have not 
given them publicity. It is obvious, however, that a satisfactory de- 
lineation of so immense an empire must be the result cf a progressive 
accumulation of facte on the precision of which reliance can be placed, 
and that acquiescence in the prior details of accidental travellers tends 
to perpetuate error. Many of the statements here collected will j)ro- 
bably require future correction, many remote tracts and sources of in- 
formation remain to be explored, and new discoveries hereafter will 
disturb and confound all previous systems and arrangements. To these 
heavy detractions from the utility of this publication may be added the 
still more serious one, of the autlior's having undertaken a task to which 
he feds himself unequal ; but it must, on the other hand, be considered, 
that, since those who arc better qualified will not submit to the labour, 
it is desirable the work should be done, even imperfectly, rather than 
not at all. 




ATtRANOEMENT OF THE FIRST VOLUME. 


fA<rj 


IiiTiolttiCTiON— A gmrtl Description of Hnriostan xvi 

The ProvHice of Bengal 

Bahar 231 

- Allahabad HQ* 

Oude 3Si 

— Agra 35! 

Delhi 40 

Lahore . 461 

— Cashmere . . . 50 

— Ajmeer 5|. 

Mooltan 55, 

Cotch 5g, 

Gojerat 60 

Malwah 721 


ARRANGEMENT OF THE SECOND VOLUME. 


THE DECCAN i 

'rhe Province of Gundwana 5 

Orissa 81 

• Tie Northern Circari . 60 

Khandesh . 95 

— Berar 106 

Boeder tlS 

-Hydembad 12* 

.i n . .. ... . Atti«i|;sl)ad ....... 143 

m 


XVI 


iVKRANOEMENT OF THE SECOND VOLtJME. 


fMf 

INDIA SOUTH OF THE KRISHNA RIVER 848 

, Tlie Province of Canara * . . 851 

Malabar 878 

Cochin 808 

Travancore 800 

The Balaghaut Ceded Districts 888 

Mysore 849 

Coimbatoor 884 

Salem and Barramahal 

— The Carnatic 8ij|9 

THE ISLAND OF CEYLON 4^ 

NORTHERN BINDOSTAN 608 

The Country between the Sutuleje and Jumna 607 

Gurwal or Serinagur 688 

Kuinaon 648 

The Dominions of Nepaul 668 

The Sikkim Domains 

COUNTRIES ADJACENT TO HTNDOSTAN. 

Baloochistan 586 

Afghanistan 585 

Tibet 566 

Bootan 788 

Assam 740' 

States adjacent to Assam 758 

Ava and the Birman Empire 768 

Index .807 

Glossauy 888 

List of Authorities . • 886 

Addendum— L ast of Govcraors General, &c. . ...» .831 



INTRODUCTION. xix 

1. Tlie country between the Sutuleje 5. Painkhandi. 

and Jumna. 6. Bhu^t. 

2. GurwaJ, or Serinagur. " 7. The dominions of Nepaul. 

3. The sources of the Ganges. 6. The Sikkim domains. 

4. Kumaon. 

Tbe inhabitants of tliese Alpine tracts having, until times quite recent, nan 
but little intercoune with the plains, are comparatively much behind in know- 
ledge and civilization, which may also be partly attributed to their having at- 
tracted the attention of the Brahmins at a much later period than their richer 
neighbours of the south. 

2d. HINDOSTAN PROPER. — ^This, by far the most comprehensive divi- 
sion, as it reaches south to the Nerbudda river, where the Deccan commences, 
and includes the eleven large provinces, each equal to a kingdom, formed by the 
Emperor Acber, as also Cashmere and Cutch; viz. — 

1. Bengal. 6. Delhi. 10. Mooltan. 

2. Bahar. 7. Lahore. 11. Cutch. 

3. Allahabad. 8. Cashmere. 12. Gujerat. 

4. Oude. 9. Ajmeer. 13. Malwah. 

5. Agra. 

These provinces have been long celebrated for their riches and fertility, apd 
contain the seats of the most powerful Mahommedan empires, having been re- 
peatedly subjugated by the more hardy tribes of the north. The generality of 
the inhabitants are a superior race to the population of the other divisions, pos- 
sessing a more robust frame of body, besides surpassing them in intellectqal 
qualities. , , 

3d. The' third grand division is the DECCAN, which is bounded on the 
north by the course of the Nerbudda river, and easterly from its source by an 
imaginaiy line extending in the same parallel of latitude to the mouth of the 
Hooghly, or western branch of the Ganges. To the south the boundaries of the 
Deccan are the rivers Krishna and Toombudra ; to the east the Bay of Bengal, 
and to the west the Indian Ocean. Within these limits the following large pro- 
vinces are nearly comprehended, viz. 

1, Gundwana. 4. Khandesh. 7. Hyderabad. 

% Oris8a< 5. Berar. 8. Aurungabad. 

3. The Northern Circars. 6. Seeder. 9. Bejapoor. 

4th. INDIA SOUTH OF THE KRISHNA RIVER.— This division is fre- 

quently named the peninsula, although its figure more resembles that of an equi- 
lateral triangle, of which thenoi^bem boundary at the river Krishna is the luise ; 

c 2 



xviii INTRODUCTION. 

St han place, but it has been adopted for ages back, both by natives and 
foreigners. 

By the Mahommedan writers the term Hindostan is understood to signify the 
country in immediate subjection to the sovereigns of Delhi, which, in A. D. 
1582, was subdivided by the Emperor Acber into eleven soubahs or provinces, 
most of which, notwithstanding the frequent political revolutions Uiey have 
since experienced, still nearly retain their original geographical formation. The 
names of these provinces are Lahore, Mooltan, Ajmeer, Delhi, Agra, Allahabad, 
Bahar, Oude, Bengal, Malwah, and Gujerat. A twelfth soubah, was formed of 
Cabul, and the countries west of the Indus, and also Cashmere ; and thiee new 
ones were afterwards added from conquests made in the Deccan; viz. Berar, 
Khandesh, and Ahmednuggur, afterwards named Aurungabad. 

In modern times the limits of Hindostan have generally been considered by 
European geographers as co-extensive with those of the Hindoo religion, which 
delineation having also the advantage of being singularly well defined on three 
sides by strong natural barriers, is the one adhered to throughout the following 
work. According to this arrangement, Hindostan is separated on the north from 
the table land of Tibet by the lofty chain of Himalaya mountains, which com- 
mences at the Indus about the 35th degree of north latitude, and passing Cash- 
mere in the same parallel, extends from thence in a south-easterly direction to an 
unascertained distance beyond the limits of Bootan. To the south, Hindostan 
is everywhere bounded by the ocean, and on the west by the course of the river 
Indus. To the east its limits are more difficult to define ; but the most distinct 
are the range of hills and forests that skirt the Bengal districts of Chittagong 
and Tiperah, and stretch north to the Brahmaputra, near to where that immense 
river, after having long flowed almost due west, makes a sudden sweep to the 
south. In this north-eastern comer the Hindoo religion is irregularly diffused, 
as it extends far beyond the limits assigned into Assam, and Cassay, while that 
of Buddha prevails in Bootan, and protrudes into the Brahminical regions on 
the banks of the Teesta. Circumscribed within the boundaries above specified, 
Hindostan presents four grand geographical divisions, viz. 

Ist. NORTHERN HINDOSTAN.— This extensive and rugged territory 
commences on the west at the Sutuleje river, from whence it stretches in an 
easterly direction, slanting to the south, until it reaches the Teesta river, in lon- 
gitude 88* 30' east, beyond which, among the mountains, the Lama religion pie*;; 
dominates. To the north it is separated from Tibet or Southern Tartary by the 
Himalaya; on the south, from the old Mogul provhu^, by the line where the 
lower ranges of hills press on the vast Gangetic plain. The principal modem 

territorial and potitkad subdivisions are the following 



INTRODUCTION. xix 

1. Tlie country between the Sutuleje 5. Painkhandi. 

and Jumna. 6. Bhu^t. 

2. GurwaJ, or Serinagur. " 7. The dominions of Nepaul. 

3. The sources of the Ganges. 6. The Sikkim domains. 

4. Kumaon. 

Tbe inhabitants of tliese Alpine tracts having, until times quite recent, nan 
but little intercoune with the plains, are comparatively much behind in know- 
ledge and civilization, which may also be partly attributed to their having at- 
tracted the attention of the Brahmins at a much later period than their richer 
neighbours of the south. 

2d. HINDOSTAN PROPER. — ^This, by far the most comprehensive divi- 
sion, as it reaches south to the Nerbudda river, where the Deccan commences, 
and includes the eleven large provinces, each equal to a kingdom, formed by the 
Emperor Acber, as also Cashmere and Cutch; viz. 

1. Bengal. 6. Delhi. 10. Mooltan. 

2. Bahar. 7. Lahore. 11. Cutch. 

3. Allahabad. 8. Cashmere. 12. Gujerat. 

4. Oude. 9. Ajmeer. 13. Malwah. 

5. Agra. 

These provinces have been long celebrated for their riches and fertility, apd 
contain the seats of the most powerful Mahommedan empires, having been re- 
peatedly subjugated by the more hardy tribes of the north. The generality of 
the inhabitants are a superior race to the population of the other divisions, pos- 
sessing a more robust frame of body, besides surpassing them in intellectqal 
qualities. , , 

3d. The' third grand division is the DECCAN, which is bounded on the 
north by the course of the Nerbudda river, and easterly from its source by an 
imaginaiy line extending in the same parallel of latitude to the mouth of the 
Hooghly, or western branch of the Ganges. To the south the boundaries of the 
Deccan are the rivers Krishna and Toombudra ; to the east the Bay of Bengal, 
and to the west the Indian Ocean. Within these limits the following large pro- 
vinces are nearly comprehended, viz. 

1, Gundwana. 4. Khandesh. 7. Hyderabad. 

% Oris8a< 5. Berar. 8. Aurungabad. 

3. The Northern Circars. 6. Seeder. 9. Bejapoor. 

4th. INDIA SOUTH OF THE KRISHNA RIVER.— This division is fre- 

quently named the peninsula, although its figure more resembles that of an equi- 
lateral triangle, of which thenoi^bem boundary at the river Krishna is the luise ; 

c 2 



XX 


INTRODUCTION. 


the coasts of Coromandel and Malabar the sides, with the apex at Cape 
Comorin. The modem territorial and political subdivisions are the following, 
viz. — 

1. Canara. 6. _The Balaghaut Ceded 8. Salem and the Bar- 

2. Malabar. Distriets. ramahal. 

3. Cochin. 6. Mysore. 9. The Carnatic. 

4. Trayancore. 7. Coimbatoor. . < 

There are few sea coasts of such extent, so destitute of islands a$ that of Hin- 
dustan ; indeed, exclusive of emerged sand banks and mere rocks, it may be 
said to possess only one, Ceylon, with which the geographical survey ib this 
quarter terminates. Proceeding on, the next objects that come under con- 
sideration are the boundary countries, of which such portions only are examined 
as come into immediate contact with Hindostan, beginning from the south- 
west ; and on account of its local position, it has been thought best to insert 
Northern Hindostan along with the mountainous territories to which it is most 
contiguous. 

1. Baloochistan. 4. Northern Hindostan. 7. States adjacent to Assam. 

2. Afghanistan. 6. Bootan. 8. Ava and the Birman em- 

3. Tibet. 6. Assam. pire. 

The size and relative position of the different provinces will be more satisfac- 
torily learned from an inspection of the Map prefixed, than from any written ex- 
planation, however minute; and each of them being in the course of the work 
described topographically, for further local details the reader is directed to 
the distinct heads respectively; what observations immediately follow having re- 
ference to Hindostan in general. 

The principal geological features of this region are the vast Gangetic plain, 
the great sandy desert of the Indus, the elevated table land above the Ghauts, 
and the Himalayan, Vindhyan, and Ghaut chains of mountains with their subor- 
dinate ranges. There are no lakes of any considerable magnitude, but many 
morasses, especially an enormous saline one named the Runn. There are no 
volcanoes in a state of activity, nor is the existence of extinguished ones clearly 
established. Earthquakes, although frequent, with the exception of one in 
Cutch, of very recent occurrence, have never been destructive. The seasons, 
winds, and rains are periodical, and throughout the whole space, what are called 
the monsoons more or less prevail. Within the geographical limits of 'Hindos- 
tan every degree of temperature is to be found, from burning heat to perpetual 
congelation ; but with the exception of an Alpme tract among the northern 
motmt^ns, the climate is strictly tropit^, and promotes the grqwth of all con- 



INTRODUCTION. 


XXI 


genial fruits, plants, and vegetables in the most luxuriant profusion, although 
the soil in most parts wants strength and tenacity. Minerals are abundant, but 
little worked, and there are few countries that spontaneously produce so great 
a variety of saline substances. 

But the glory of Hindostan is its noble rivers, and more especially the vene- 
rable Ganges, which at once fertilizes the soil, and serves for the transport of its 
matured productions. In the rainy seasons the mountain torrents swell in a 
wonderful manner, and within a few hours frequently rise 20 feet above their 
usual level, rushing down with much uproar and rapidity. The larger streams 
generally begin to increase before the rains fall in the low countries, which cir- 
cumstance is equally remarked of rivers, such as the Nerbudda and Tuptee, that 
do not spring from cold countries, as it is of the Ganges and Brahmaputra, whose 
sources benefit by the snows of Himalaya. In the dry season they proceed to 
the ocean over their broad sandy beds with a slow and sluggish stream, but 
when swelled by the periodical rains, their course is furious, and destructive to 
the villages placed too near their banks. On the other hand, some rivers, such 
IS the Sereswati, mentioned in ancient Hindoo writings as beiiig of great bulk 
and importance, have, in later times, wholly disappeared. In general the rivers 
have retained their original appellations better than the cities or provinces, the 
latter having often had their designations altered from vanity or religious motives. 
The following are the names of the principal streams, with their probable length 
of course to the sea, including the windings, but there are many others omitted 
that would be reckoned large rivers in Europe. 


Miles to the Sea. 

In the Deccan and South of India. 

Indus 

1,700 

The Godavery 

850 

Brahmaputra 

1,650 

Krishna 

700 

Ganges 

1,500 

Nerbudda 

700 

Jumna (to its junction with 


Mahanuddy .... 

550 

the Ganges 780) . . . 

1,500 

Tuptee 

460 

Sutuleje (to the Indus 900) 

1,400 

Cavery 

400 

Jhylum (ditto 750) . . . 

1,250 



Gunduck (totheGanges450) 

980 




The harvest in Hindostan Proper is divided into two periods; the first is cut 
in September and October, and the second in March and April. Rice is the 
grand article of nourishment, and the chief object of attention in the cultivation 
of it is to have the soil plentifully supplied with water. Indeed, while travelling 
thfough Hindostan, a tolerably correct Judgment may be formed of the wisdom 



XXll 


INTRODUCTION. 


of the government and condition of the people, from viewing the number and 
state of preservation of the tanks, watercourses, and other conduits for the irri- 
gation of the fields. In this country the wages of the labouring cultivator are 
limited to a mere subsistence, which is not the case ifi Europe. In the latter, 
tlie labourer's expenditure consi^s^not only of food., but also of tnany accessaries, 
such as a cottage, furniture, clothing, and liquor, so that in tunes ef scarcity 
when grain becomes dear, he finds a temporary resource in abstaining from or 
parting with some of these superfluities'. The working classes of Hindustan are 
not so well circumstanced, for their wages being little more than the inere ex- 
pense of their food, they are utterly destitute if it rise, having no reserve for 
emergencies. v 

That the Hindoos were in early ages a commercial people, we have many rea- 
sons to believe ; and, in the first of their sacred law tracts, which they suppose 
to have been revealed by Menu, many millions of years ago, there is a curious 
passage respecting the legal interest of money, and the limited rate of it in 
different cases, with an exception in regard to adventures by sea. The three 
great articles of general importation from India by the Greeks and Romans 
were, 1st, spices; 2dly, precious stones and pearls ; 3dly, silk. Their exports 
to India were woollen cloth of a slight fabric, linen in chequer work, some pre- 
cious stones, and some aromatics unknown in India, coral, storax, glass vessels 
of difterent kinds, wrought silver, Italian, Greek, and Arabian wines, brass, tin, 
lead, girdles and sashes, melilot, white glass, red arsenic, black lead, and gold 
and silver. Of the last mentioned metal the influx ^o Hindustan has always 
been very great, as the inhabitants sell much, and purchase little, the balance is 
consequently always in their favour. A great deal of bullion is supposed to be 
annually lost by being concealed under ground by the natives, many of whom 
die without revealing the site of their hidden tfeasure, and the practice of 
hoarding is among all ranks of Hindoos almost universal. For many centuries 
past cotton piece goods have been the grand staple of Hindostan, but latteriy, 
owing to the great improvements in Europe, the quantity exported has con- 
siderably diminished. The various sorts fabricated in different provinces frmn 
the northern mountains to Cape Comorin, are too numerous to admit of parti- 
cular detail, and for further information regarding the agriculture, manufrctuiei^ 
and commerce of Hindustan, the reader is referred to the provinces and cities 
respectively, more especially to the descriptions of Bengal, i^alcutta. Madias, 
and Bombay. In the mean time it may be safely asserted, that with so vast an 
^tent of fertile soil, peopled by so many millions of tractable and ittdastrkms 
innabitauts, Hindustan is capableof supplying the whde world with any spedes 



INTRODUCTIOir xxiii 

of tropical merchandiae, the production being, in fact, only limited by the 
demand. 

India was little known to the Greeks until Alexander’s expedition, about 327 
years b^ore Christ. The following particulars, selected from the ancient de* 
scriptions of India by Arrian and other authoia, will shew how nearly the ancient 
inhabitants resemble the present. 

1. The slender make of their bodies. 

2. Their living on vegetable food. 

3. Distribution into sects and classes. 

4. Marriages at seven years of age, and the prohibition of marriages between 
different castes. 

5. The men wearing earrings and party coloured shoes, also veils covering the 
head and part of the shoulders. 

6. Daubing their faces with colours. 

7. Only the principal persons having umbrellas carried over them. 

8. Two-handed swords, and bows drawn by the feet. 

9. The manner of taking elephants, the same as at present. 

10. Manufactures of cotton of extraordinary whiteness ; and the plant named 
carpas-us as at present. 

11. Monstrous ants, by which the termites or white ants are meant. 

12. Wooden houses on the banks of large rivers to be occasionally removed 
as die river changed its course. 

13. The tala, or tal tree, a kind of palm. 

14. The banyan trees, and the Indian devotees sitting under them. 

The Greeks have not left us any means of knowing with accuracy what verna- 
cular languages were prevalent in India on their arrival. The radical language 
of India is the Sanscrit ; of which such is the antiquity, that neither history nor 
tradition has preserved any account of a people of whom it was the living 
tongue. From this source the most ancient derivatives are the Prakrit, the Bali, 
and the Zend. The first is the language which contains the greater part of the 
sacred books of the Jainas ; the Bali is equally revered among the fdlowers of 
Buddha ; while the Zend, or sacred language of ancient Persia, has long enjoyed 
a similar rank among the worshippers of fire, and been the depo^tory of the 
sacred books of Zoroaster. There is reason to believe that ten polished dialects 
' fiHrmerly prevailed in as manydifferent civilized nations, which occupied the whole 
extent of Hindostan. The Saraswata, the Kanoje, the Gour, the Maithila„ and 
the Orissa, are denominated the five Gaurs; the five Dravirs are, the Taiaul, 
the Mahaiatta, the Cantata, the Telinga, and the Gqjata. The modern dialects 
are the Mowing, which have nine-tenths of thdr words in eommon, the basis 



XXIV 


INTRODUCTION. 


of the whole being the Sanscrit, and except the Hindostany, which iathewnivor- 
sal language of intercourse, they are all local : viz. 


Hindostany. 

Gujeratty. 

Harowty. 

Maithila 

Bengalese. 

Concanese. 

Malwah. 

Nepaulese. 

Cashmere. 

Punjaby. 

Bruj. 

Orissa. 

Dogura. 

Bicanere. 

Bundelcund. 

Telinga. 

Ooch. 

Marwar. 

Maharatta. 

Camatai. 

Tamul. 

'It 

Sindy. 

Jeypoor. 

Magadha. 

Cutch. 

Odeypoor. 

Koshala. 


On the east we find the Sanscrit language arrested by the Khasee, the j^nnan, 
and other Indo-Chinese languages, and on the west by the Pushtoo, or A%haD, 
and the Baloochy. 

That any general similitude of manners existed before the Mahommedan 
invasion is very doubtful, but certainly tliere are in modem times strong shades 
of difference in the characters of the Hindoos dispersed over the several pro- 
vinces. Travelling through Hindustan, from Cape Comorin, for example, up the 
Carnatic, the Deccan, and through Bengal to Cashmere, an extent of above 25 
degrees of latitude, under many general points of resemblance, a very great 
variety of habits, languages, and religious observances is perceptible, nearly as 
great as a native of India would remark were he journeying from Gibraltar to 
St. Petersburgh. The character of the Maharattas, nurtured in war and depre- 
dation, differs much from the placid natives of the south, and the unmartial 
population of. Bengal. Those who inhabit the northern territories between the 
Nerbudda and the Indus, are almost all (or pretend to be) of a military tribe, 
the caste of Rajpoots or Rajwars, who are governed by petty chiefs, and divided 
into small independent principalities, which, until reluctantly compelled to adopt 
more pacific habits, were engaged in never-ceasing conflict with each other. 
The great mass of the Hindoo and Mahommedan population throughout Hin- 
dustan has nearly attained the same stage of civilization, but intermixed with 
them are certain races of mountaineers, probably th^ true aborigines, whose 
languages have little affinity with the Sanscrit, and whose customs retain all 
their primitive barbarity. The most remarkable of these tribes are the Gonds, 
liueels, and Coolies ; but there arc many others of less note* such as the hill 
people of Boglipoor, and the Kookies of Chittagong. In the capital setUe> 
ments, and in the larpr towns within the British dominions, some few of tbo 
natives attempt to imitate the manners of Europeans, and almost, adc^t thdhf 
cress ; but they receive no encouragement from the class they are endeavCoriBig 



INTRODUCTION. XXV 

The two great reli^ous persuasions of Hindostan are tiie Hindoo and Ma- 
hommedan^ whose relative numbers throughout the whole empire are probably 
in ^le proportion of seven of the first to one of the last. By Europeans the term 
Hindoo is in general so very loosely and inaccurately applied, as to include reli- 
gions, such as the Buddhist and Jain, professing tenets in direct opposition to the 
Brahminical system. Indeed, Hindoo mythology is a subject as inexhaustible 
as it is difficult to render intelligible, and can only be slightly touched upon ; 
but viewed on the most favourable side, the following may be considered a 
tolerably exact sketch of its leading doctrines. 

The great supreme deity Brahm remains in holy obscurity, and superstition 
is never allowed to profane his name, which is always kept clear of fiction. 
Three energies, however, the creating, preserving, and destroying, are embodied 
under the names of Brahma, Vishnu, and Siva, to each of whom a female or 
passive energy is allied. These have all human forms diversified by the imagina- 
tion in various ways, and as the two last mentioned are supposed to have 
descended many times, each Avatar or incarnation furnishes a distinct deity to 
whom worship is addressed. Of the three specified, Brahma alone has no incar- 
nations, and is never worshipped. Some of the Avatars are supposed to have 
been incarnations of the whole god, while others are only considered partial 
emanations from the divinity. Besides these three gods there is a whole pan- 
theon of minor deities. The sea, the winds, the heavens, the elements, the sun, 
moon, and stars, every river, fountain, and stream is eitlier deity in itself, or has 
a divinity presiding over it, nothing being done without the intervention of 
supernatural power. Descending still lower there are myriads of demigods, of 
a most extraordinary description, and numerous beyond the power of calculation. 

A little red paint smeered over a stone, a lump of clay, or the stump of a tree, 
converts it into a god, worshipped by the lower classes, and saluted by the 
upper with much apparent devotion. Any monster, any figure, partly brutal ; 
any multiplicity of heads and hands in the object adored, indicate a Braliminical 
place of worship. The presence of umbrella covered pyramids or semi-globes, 
and of plain human figures sitting cross-legged, or standing in a meditative pos- 
ture, point out the temple or excavation of a Buddhist ; the 24 saintly figures 
without the pyramid.announce a temple of the Jain. 

Five grmtt sects of Hindoos exclusively worship a single deity, one recognizes 
tihe five divinities that are reverenced by the other sects respectively \ but the 
lolUrarers of Bds comprehenuve scheme mostly select one object of daily ndoia- 
timi, and perform rites to ^ other deities on particular occasions only. Ttm 
wmahip of Ram and Krishna, Siva and Bhavani, appears to have been intro* 
dtomadm&eetlmperseealio^ The estnblt^mcnl 

of the ted» wah anterior to iBnddha, whose theology seems to have hem Iw- 

voa.f. 



XXVI 


INTRODUCTION. 


rowed from the system of Capila, who forbid the slaying of animals; but the 
overthrow of the Buddhist sect in Hipdostan has not effected the full revival of 
the religious system inculcated by the Vedas. Most of what is there taught is 
now obsolete, and in its stead new orders of devotees have arisen with new 
forms of religious ceremonies. Rituals founded on the Puranas and Tantras 
have in a great measure antiquated the institutions of the Vedas, a remarkable 
instance of which is the sacrifice of animals before the goddess Cali ; and the 
adoration of Rama and Krishna have succeeded to that of the elements jand 
planets. Sir W. Jones was of opinion that we might fix the existence of Buddha, 
or the ninth great incarnation of Vishnu, in the year 1014 l^efore the birtf^ of 
our Saviour. The earliest accounts of India by the Greeks who visited it with 
Alexander, describe the inhabitants as divided into separate tribes, consequently 
a sect like the modern Buddhists could not then have been the most prevalent. 
No modem nation, of equal civilization, remains so completely infatuated as the 
Hindoos are with the conviction of the potency of magic, to the effect of which 
every event, good or bad, is attributed. Their religious rites have in fact dege- 
nerated to mere incantations, all directed to the attainment of some end through 
the efficacy of a spell, and the requisite ceremonies have become so numerous 
and intricate, that no votary could accomplish them, were he to devote day and 
night to their performance. 

The Hindoo religion is without any acknowledged individual superior, or pub- 
lic convocation ; but the pre-eminence of the Brahmins is never disputed by the 
other castes. The true origin of this sacred order remains involved in obscurity; 
but at present the impression of many orientalists is, that they were onginally 
strangers from Persia, or some portion of central Asia, and it is quite certain 
that the Brahminical religion formerly prevailed far west of the Indus. Even 
now their advance eastward is progressive. In the north-eastern parts of Ben- 
gal, Brahmins are comparatively a recent importation ; the rude natives of that 
quarter not having long acknowledged their vast superiority, or submitted to 
their distinctions of purity and impurity. It is a mistake to suppose that the 
Brahmins do not admit of proselytes. They certainly never dreamed of admit- 
ting any stranger to a participation of their own rank, the distance being utterly 
immeasurable ; but where it suits their interest they will class them with the 
military and working castes, and even condescend to perform certain ceremonies 
for the barbarians, wluch is a virtual admission within the pale of the Brahmini- 
cal church. Tribes altogether vile are those for whom no person of the sacred 
order will perform any ceremony, unless they renounce their impure habits, and, 
in reality, whoever Brahmins penetrate among savage tribes a gradual and 
regular converuon inmediatdy commences. 



INTRODUCTION. 


xxvit 


Tbe division of the people into castes b the paramount distinction between the 
Brahminical Hindoos and the votaries of Buddha, but strict adherence to the 
peculiar duties of each caste having probably been found impracticable, they 
have been compelled to relax the spirit of the law, and to admit of numerous 
exceptions. The peculiar duty of a Brahmin is to meditate on things divine, 
and the proper manner of his procuring a subsistence is by begging ; every 
species of industry being derogatory to his rank. The majority of Brahmins 
may, and do eat animal food^ priests, while officiating as such, perhaps do not ; 
but though all priests are Brahmins, all Brahmins are not priests. The right of 
bearing arras, which in early times was confined to the military caste of Khe- 
tries, has latterly been found diffused throughout all classes, and even Brahmins 
have been seen standing in the ranks as common soldiers. It is probable that 
the institution of a distinct military caste, had the effect of eradicating martial 
habits from the mass of the population, and contributed greatly to facilitate their 
subjugation by foreigners. It is generally but erroneously supposed that per- 
sons of the same caste will communicate and eat together all over India, but 
this is by no means the case, the intercourse being confined to a few families 
only in their own immediate neighbourhood, and, as far as refers to them, the 
residue of the same tribe are in a manner outcasts. There is something how- 
ever so fascinating to the natives of India in the doctrine of caste, that the 
Malabar Christians, notwithstanding their conversion to a religion that sanctions 
no distinction, have not been able to free themselves from it, and the lower 
classes of Mahommedans throughout Hindostan shew a remarkable proneness 
towards its adoption. Compared with other nations in the same parallels of 
latitude, the Hindoos are certainly a superior people, although far behind the 
civilized inhabitants of Europe, and, in some respects, inferior even to the 
Chinese. 

The Hindoos believe, that by the performance of extreme penances and aus- 
terities mortals may acquire supernatural power, and carelessness or rather 
prodigality of life has always been a remarkable feature in their character. 
Besides a meritorious suffering for their faith, suicide is in many cases legal and 
commendable, such as the immolaUon of a widow with her husband’s corpse. 
In establishing their places of religious pilgrimage they have always shewn a 
predilection for places near the sea, the sources and junctions of rivers, the tops 
of remarkable hills, hot springs, caves, water-falls, in short, any natural phe- 
nomenon the access to which happened to be difficult or dangerous. Of late 
years a great many of the holiest fanes have had their reputation for sanctity con- 
siderably tarnished, in consequence of their having been frequently visited and 
examin^ by Enropeans* but nu»e especially by the improved system of internal 

d2 



INTRODUCTION. 


xxviii 

police which has abstracted all mystery from the journey, and rendered the 
pilgrimage too easy to be meritorious. The following are the names of several 
' places that still retain a considerable portion of their original celebrity which 
must be expected, however, annually to diminish. 

Juggernauth. Somnauth. Trimbuck Nasser. 

Benares. Ramisseram. Perwuttum. 

Gaya. Lake Manasarovara. Parkur. 

Allahabad. Gangoutri. Mathura. 

Tripety. Joalamnkhi. Bindrabund. 

Dwaraca. Omercuntuc. 

The Ganges, on account of the peculiar sanctity of its ^vaJter8 is worshipped 
throughout its whole course, but there are particular spots on its banks held 
more sacred than others ; they also venerate in an inferior degree many other 
livers. Most of the holy places above enumerated are situated very distant fronv 
each other, yet appear from the remotest antiquity to have had a constant influx 
of pilgrims from every quarter of Hindostan, which apparently ought to have 
had the effect of improving their geographical system, and promoting a general 
knowledge of each other. But no such beneficial effects ever resulted, and 
owing to the total want of historical records among the Hindoos, any fable that 
has been retailed for one hundred yearn comes down to the existing race with 
its origin as obscure, as if it had been established for a thousand. 

The modern Mahommedans may with safety be estimated at one-seventh of 
the total population, and notwithstanding the subversion of their political pre- 
dominance by a Christian power, their religion continues to exptmd. They are 
no longer, however, the sanguinary zealots, who, eight hundred years ago, in 
the name of God and the prophet, spread desolation and slaughter among the 
unconverted Pagans. Open violence produced little effect on so patient a peo- 
ple, and although the Mahommedans subsequently lived for centuries intermixed 
with Hindoos, no radical change was produced in the manners or tenets (ff the 
latter. On the contrary, for almost a century past, the Mahommedans have 
evinced much deference to the prejudices of their Hindoo neighbours, and a 
strong predilection towards many of their ceremonies. The higher ranks of 
Mahommedans in general abstain from making offerings to the gods of the 
Pagans; but the multitude in their distresses have recourse to the idi^, and even 
make offerings on many holidays ; whereas it is the higher ranks of Hindoos whn 
ate chiefly addicted to the propitiation of Mahnmmfdf n 
The iMxt rehgious sect of sufficient importance to desem notice k the 
mtian, which probably throughout Hindostia eonpiehmds abottl hltf ♦' 

mflhon of soids,, almost aU the descendahu of die aiwiittt Ottlrtitt 



INTRODUCTION. 


^xhc 

relatively to the other classes existing under circumstances of degradation. The 
pride of caste among the Hindoos does not singly account for the contempt felt 
and diewn by the followers of the Brahminical system ^wards them, no such 
contempt being manifested to the Mahommedans or to t^ European Christians, 
lliere are undoubtedly circumstances of diet and cleanliness which tend to 
lower the Nazarene in the eyes both of the Mahommedan and Hindoo ; and the 
European holding himself aloof from the native Christian, no portion of the 
veneration which the first attracts, is reflected on his humble brother in religion. 
Were it practicable to raise the inferior part of the chain without lowering tlm 
upper, the Christian might, like the Mahommedan, become a tribe holding a 
respectable station in the mixed society of India, and until some such improve- 
ment is effected the temporal causes that oppose the conversion of the- Hindoos 
will continue to operate. Conviction does not easily reach the mind of an 
individual, who, by becoming a proselyte, must descend from a decent rank in 
society to one degraded and discountenanced, whereas were he encouraged not 
merely by the number but also by the reflective lustre of those, who, although 
of a different origin and complexion, unite with him in faith, he would soon 
have numerous associates. 

WiUi a view to the creation of so important a link in the chain, combined with 
other reasons, a gradual extension of the colonizing system has been recom- 
mended by Mr. Colebrooke. Considered as a measure of policy, a Christian 
population, holding a decent rank in the motley throng of tribes and castes, 
would tend to consolidate the strength of the state, and add to the probable 
duration of the empire. A colonization of the nature alluded to, far from being 
likely to terminate in the separation of the colony, would rather serve to per- 
petuate the union by the addition of a tribe whose interest and doctrines must 
attach them to their European superiors. With habits more analogous to those 
of Europe, the Creole Christians would certainly be better customers for its 
productions than the other sects. For the furtherance of such an object all that 
is necessary is, to allow the natural course of events to take effect, without 
either encoun^ment or restraint, and to permit Europeans and their legitimate 
progeny to settle in India and acquire landed property. At present it is only 
the iUi^timate offspring that is privileged, while the legitimate descendant is 
laohibited from obtaining a property in the soil of his birth. A gradual mcrease 
«f the illegitimate race in fact constitutes a progressive colonization, but it pro- 
ceeds less rapidly than might have been expected, being absorbed into tire 
imiiiediately above and below it On the one side by the intermarriages 

l^be with European sojourners, and on the other it mdts into die dark 

Mtive CSuhdtn. Gohmizedion in dm iitiMd Mnse of the term is never likely to 



XXX 


INTRODUCTION. 


take place in Hindostan, as no inducement exists to attract the common labourer 
or artizan. The voluntary resort would be confined to merchants, traders, ana 
factors ; to navigators and seamen of a superior class ; to master planters and 
overseers of plantations ; and to the civil and military servants of the govern- 
ment: but the influx of emigrants would never be in such numbers as to interfere 
with the ordinary employments of the native population. In process of time, 
however, when ages have passed away, should the increase of a Christian 
Creole population terminate in a separation, which is, however, more likely to 
happen from other causes, the event when it arrives will be advantageous to 
both parties, and its approaching maturity ought to be hailed as a common 
benefit. 

The historical notices procurable in India are usually either mere traditions 
preserved among ignorant people, or legends mixed with the most monstrous 
fables, for it may be safely asserted that the Hindoos have nothing deserving of 
being dignified with the name of history, or which could with propriety be de- 
nominated a chronicle. The i^ars between the, princes considered as incarna- 
tions of Vishnu, and the asuras or demons, such as Rawan, have reference no 
doubt to a period when the worship of certain gods was in recent vigour, and 
the sectaries of each were contending for superiority. There is also reason to 
believe that the Yavans, so often mentioned, were the Macedonians of Bactria, 


who obtained large possessions in the north-western quarter, where, about the 
time of the Mahommedan invasion, the family of Palas claimed universal domi- 
nion. The dynasties of princes named after the sun and moon seem to have 
governed Hindostan from the earliest tin^s, and each branched out into numerous 
Hues that shared the country between them, while sometimes the one and some- 
times the other proved most potent, and furnished the prince who was con- 
sidered the paramount lord of India. The power possessed by these sovereigns 
appears to have consisted of three privileges. Each prince sent him annually an 
embassy with presents ; he bestowed the tica or mark of investiture on each 
heir when he succeeded to the throne; and he had a right to interfere to prevent 
the stronger of his nominal vassals from completely subjugating the weaker. 
The prerogative last mentioned was probably limited to persuasion, as he pos- 
sessed no means of enforcing a co-operation among them. For the chronology 
of Hindostan since the Mahommedan invasion, the reader is referred to the 

words Ghizni and Delhi ; that of each province, district, and city, is given as 
they respectively occur. 


for above a centurj' past the native governments of Hindostan have been in a 
^ ° fluc^ation. So far from having any political system, ^ 

w ic IS to afford protection to their weaker oeighbourst eaectly the 



INTRODUCTION. 


xxxi 


reverse is the case, the object of every native state separately, and of all col- 
lecUveiy, being to destroy the weak. Internally the constitution is an unmixed 
despotism, every movement originating with the government, to the power oJ’ 
which there is no limit except the endurance of the people, the sovereign’s will 
being never opposed but by a general insurrection. The consequence is, that 
the great bulk of the population entertain no attachment to any set of political 
principles, or to any form of government, and they have been so long accus- 
tomed to revolutions and frequent changes of sovereigns, that they obey with 
little repugnance whoever is placed over them, expecting his sway, like that of 
his predecessor, to be transitory. They are solicitous for the toleration of their 
religious doctrines, rites, and prejudices, the security of their domestic con- 
cerns, and the prosperity of their particular villages ; but are totally destitute of 
what in Europe is understood by the term patriotism. Indeed the system of 
village government throughout India, presents the only instance of permanent 
territorial cohesion counteracting the evils incident to despotism, and serves to 
account for the flourishing condition of many tracts of country from which all 
government whatever appears to be withdrawn. 

Under such circumstances it is not surprising that the natives do not look 
upon the crime of treason against the state in the light that we do. In fidelity 
and attachment to a master Or chief they are not surpassed by any people ; but 
those who stand in the relation of subjects, without being in the service or pay 
of the supreme power, do not feel themselves bound by any very strong tie of 
allegiance. They have no idea of loyalty or disloyalty but to the masters who 
support them, and their ideas run equally counter to all European notions of civil 
literty. In adverting to the incessant revolutions of these countries, it is a 
remarkable fact, that in all the schemes of polity, whether of the victors or the 
vanquished, the idea of civil liberty in any shape never seems to have been con- 
templated, and is to this day without a name in the languages of India. The 
Seiks when they rejected the Brahminical religion, exhibited the first and only 
instance of an approach, however imperfect, to republican principles. In 
reality our native subjects have always been as remarkable for their cheerful 
submission to power, as for a want of moderation, an unsteady disposition, and 
spirit of encroachment and litigation when suffered to indulge these evil propen- 
sities. No country in the world can exhibit so cheerful and apparently happy a 

of people as the native sepoys in the British service, which disposition, with 
the many other good qualities they are known to possess, may in a conuderaUe 
degree be attributed to the salutary discipline and subordination they are sub- 
jected to. 

Hiadostau then are nottUea of nobility exactly similar to those ot Enrope. 



Kxxii 


INTRODUCTION. 


nor are they in general hereditary. According to Oriental ideas, honours or 
gtitles confenred by the sovereign must be accompanied by a jaghire, and gene- 
rally by a military command along with the title, which is in itself considered 
merely as an appellation attached to the acquisition of emolument or power, and 
it is quite impossible to impress the minds of the natives with the value of a 
mere name. On this subject their ideas are more simple and natural than ours. 
If an unfit person receive a patent for the title of Ameer or Raja, he would not 
be able to retain it, for when a man has nothing left of dignity but the nanjie, in 
India it soon fades away . On the other hand, if a Hindoo should emerge from 
poverty and obscurity, and attain great wealth and celebrity, he would, |f he 
wished it, be saluted Raja. He would be considered as having acquired a claim 
to the title, in the same manner as other persons acquire, by learning, the appella- 
tion Moulavy and Pundit, w'hich becomes among the mass of the people inse- 
parably attached to their names. Elevation of rank and increase of opulence 
among the natives of India prodne**® greater accession of dependants, particu- 
larly in the female branch of the family, thau m any other country, and accord- 
ing to their prejudices few of these dependants can be dismissed without incur- 
ring indelible disgrace. 

In modem times the British government, since the establishment of its pre- 
dominance, being anxious to raise up an intermediate body of respectable 
gentry, has made vast sacrifices of the revenue to the zemindars, with the view 
of elevating them to the rank of European landlords ; but the experiment has 
totally failed, scarcely any of those whose incomes admit of their supporting a 
becoming splendour having shewn any desire to shake off their original habits, 
while the unceasing division and subdivision of estates peculiar to the Hindoo law 
of inheritance, threatens to reduce the whole in the course of a few generations to 
the condition of labouring cultivators. The next step towards improvement would 
be, to give the towns and market places a privileged municipal government, the 
want of which in all eastern monarchies has greatly retarded the advances of 
civilization. This and every other measure of the like nature ought to be con- 
ceded slowly and gradually, for the experience of the world has shewn how vain 
and delusive are all sudden attempts to reform and improve the social condition 
by the mere force of legislativo enactments. Such a line of cautious policy is 
more especially requisite in India, where the people are more under trsun- 
mels of prejudice than any offier, their laws and usages being identified with 
their religion, which pervades every action of their lives. In laying the founda- 
tion therefore of order and improvement, the genius of the people must be con- 
sulted, in4 the greatest respect paid both to their inoffensive and hurtfiil preju- 
dices. It Is to the actual condition and exigmicies of every society ti»t fts 



INTEODVCmON. xxxiii 

Igfirifttioe niist eoaibna itieU, tad when a new evil arise# it must be met by a 
t^iririipoading remedy. 

In Hindostan land is the chief sonrce of revenue, for very little else con- 
tributes to the supply of the Indian ways and means, and it is not practicable 
here, as in Europe, to impose other taxes to correct the inequalities of that on 
land. In the country first mentioned, the terms rent and revenue may be con- 
sidered as nearly synonimous, and the distinction of payers and consumers as 
Wording a tolerably accurate classification of the great mass of the people. The 
circumstances in which the British Government is placed, precludes sdi impro- 
vident generosity, and the peculiar habits of the people require that their 
natural tendency to inaction should be stimulated by the necessity of providing 
tor the payment of a moderately high land assessment. An incitement of this 
description is more particularly called for in a country where the mere necessa- 
ries of life are easily procured, and where, in most parts, during the prevailing 
anarchy of more than a century, to acquire property by individual exertions was 
only to tempt the hand of rapacity. For an abstract of the total revenue 
realized by the British Government in Hindostan, the reader is referred to the 
article Bengal, and for the details to each district and territorial subdirision 
respectively. The abilities and indefatigable exertions by which the fiscal 
arrangements of India have been brought to their present improved condition, 
have never been duly appreciated in Europe. Much remains still to be done, 
but even in their present imperfect form, their regularity presents a singular 
contrast to the system of shifts, evasions, and extortions, which, in modem 
times, seems so congenial to the obliquity of a native financier. The same ob- 
servations are applicable to the existing system of internal police, which, not- 
withstanding its numerous imperfections (which it is tor easier to describe than 
to remedy), has greatly ameliorated the condition of the natives, who are highly 
zensible of the protection their persons and property now experience, and 
acknowledge that the administration of civil and criminal justice has been 
improved, inasmuch as form and consistency have been substituted for discre- 
tionary authority. On the other hand, it must be admitted, that, under the new 
regime, the condition of some classes, and more especially the military, has 
materially retrograded, the productive income having, by the course of events, 
hmk almost wholly transferred to the purely agricultural and trading portions 
fike community. 

Ihe tormation of the enormous empire now possessed by the British govern- 
ment in India has been nrgpd on by curcumstances so uncontroulabk, has been 
«o tofvently dep. seated by the ruling autlM^ttes both at home smd abroad, and 
So per^f^^ly tnto^oted ^ .the strongeai legtslatiTe enactments, that its ae* 



xxxiv 


INTRODUCTION. 


quisition under such circumstances edmost appears like a dispoasation ^ Pro- 
vidence. Of the truth of this, an adequate judgment can only be filmed by 
those who have examined the voluminous documents diat have fallen und^r the 
Author's notice, and observed the incredible pains taken by the difierent govmi- 
ments of India since 1784, not only to avoid every war of s^^n^ession, but also 
to resist the importunity of the different native chiefs and communities to be 
admitted within the pale of its protection as subjects or tributaries. There 
may have been cases, although it would be difficult to indicate them, ^here the 
prospect of gaining a political ascendancy, or too hasty apprehensipnipf medi- 
tated attack, have misled tlie government into hostilities which might hi^e been 
avoided, but the general history of the British empire in India is, that it has 
been wantonly assailed, the unprovoked enemy has been conquered, and the. 
possessions wrested from him retained, not merely as a legitimate compensaticm, 
but also on the consideration of self defencei The following concise abstract of 
the British territorial possessions, with the dates of their acquisition, will furnish 
a general notion of their progressive increase : — 

A. D. 

1639 Madras, witii a territory five miles along shore, and one inland. 

16G4 Bombay. 

1691 Fort St. David. 

1696 Calcutta. 


1750 

1763 


|The Jaghire. 


1757 The 24 Pergunnahs. 

1761 Chittagong, Burdwan, and Midnapoor. 

1765 Bengal, Bahar, and four of the Northern Circars. 

1776 The Island of Salsette. 

1781 The Zemindary of Benares. 

1787 The Guntoor Circar. 

1799 Seringapatam. 

1800 The Balaghaut Ceded Districts of Bellary and Cuddapah. 

1801 Territories ceded by the Nabob of Oude, ctmsistmg of RokUcutid, Dareily« 

Moradabad, the'^wer Doab, and the districts of FurruckidMid, Alfai- 
habad, Caunpoor, XSoruckpotHr, Azyrngfaur, &c. 

1801 The Carnatic province, cdinprehending the whole of the Nabob of Afobte 

territories. 

1803 Delhi, Agra, the Upper Doab, Hurrianna* Saharuiipoor, 

lofto C“f^t*<A;»Balcsore, Jttjjaieiwauth, Ac. . 

1803 CesMonsfromamPeshwaandChiicowar/inllitjefai. 



A.B. 


INTRODUCTION. 


xsacv 


Cofi<}tt68l8 ^nom Nep«d« consisting of the faaiy country between the Sntu- 
Ic^e and Jumna, and the districts of Gurwal and Kuinaon. 

1816 Anjar, hfandavie, and otiber {daces in Cutdu 

1818 THie whole of die Peshwa’s dommions, Khandedi ; Saugur, and odier places 
inMalwah; Ajmeer, in Rajpootana; Sumbhulpoor, Sirgoojah, Gurrah, 
Af undlah, and other cessions in Gondwana, fiom the Nagpoor Raja. 

In A; D. 1814, die existing {lotitical system of Hindostan consisted (d* states 
subsidifury, federative, and ittde{>endent, viz. 

1st. Those wiUi whom the British government had formed subsidiary alliances, 
such as the Nizam, the Peshwa, the Guicowar, the Rajas of Mysore, Travan- 
core. Cochin, and the Nabob of Oude. The conditions of these subsidiary 
alliances were, that the British government should protect the native state fnmi 
external invasion and internal dissension, but the troops assigned were not to 
be employed in the civil administration or c^lection of the revenue. In letum 
for the protection thus granted, the B itish government received a compen- 
sation in money or territory, and the subsidizing state not only undertook 
to maintain a certain contingent in readiness to act with the subsidiary force, 
but also engaged to abstain from all political intercourse with the other powers 
of India, except in concert with Bie paramount authority, which undertook to 
arbitrate their disputed rights. In cases of exigence, the entire -resources of 
the protected state to be at the command, and under the direction* of the 
British government. 

2d. Certain small principalities, scarcely deserving the name of substantive 
powers, which enjoyed the British protection without any subsidiary connexioii. 
The principal members of this class were the Rajas of Bhurtpoor and MacheBry, 
wiUi some other petty chiefs in the neighbourhood of Agra and Delhi, the Bun- 
delcund chiefs, and the petty Seik chieftains on the firontier towards the Siitn- 
leje. The Raj{>oot chiefs of Jeypoor, Joudjioor, Odeypoor, Bicanere, and 
Jesselmere were not included. The engagements for the protection of these 
petty principalities were nearly the same as those entered into with the greater 
states, except that the British government seldom exacts any cxii^deratkin liMr 
its protection, and was not bound to maintain any special force for that 
purpose. 

3d. The third class consisted of acknowledged princes, such as Stndia, 
flolcar, and the Nagpoor Raja, with whom the British nation was at pditoe. arid 
had a permanent ambassador (an arrangement considered by native pAeiadnea 
is^ Atst step tovraids sidyugaliim) st^^ 



xxxvi 


INTRODUCTION. 


4th. Asa fourth class may be mentioned, the independent chieftams tmdcmnr 
munitics who had never been acknowledged as substantive powers, and towud^ 
whom the British government was not bound by any connexion whatever. IW 
two classes last mentioned had always shewn a great reluctance to form any in- 
dissoluble alliances, on terms that seemed calculated to interfere with the, un- 
restrained latitude of political action they had before enjoyed. - 
Since the date above specified (1814) great political changes have taken place, 
the Maharatta power having been irretrievably broken by the war of 1817-18, 
and the Nepaulese by that of 1815. The Peshwa, as a sovereign, jhas been 
annihilated, and his possessions, with the exception of Satarah, incmporated 
with the British dominions ; the Nagpoor Raja reduced to a state V 
plete insignificance, and Holcar deprived of all his dominions south of the 
Nerbudda. Sindia, from circumstances for which he can clsum no merit, 
presents no exhibition- of shattered fortune, but he now stands insulated and 
precluded from all extraneous assistance, not to mention the essential prostra- 
tion his strength has sustained by the extinction of the Pindarics. In 
reality, bis future exisieucc solely depends on his maintaining his present 
amicable relations towards the British government. On the other hand, several 
friendly states, such .as those of Boondee, Kotah, and Bopaul, have had their 
territories augmented, and the five great states of Rajpootana have been admitted 
into the federative alliance. Under such circumstances it is extremely de- 
sirable that the supreme power maintain without relaxation that controul over 
the correspondence and intercourse of its allies and dependants with foreign 
princes, which it is entitled to exercise by treaty, and which is indispensable 
to its political ascendancy. On all occasions, therefore, when they are de- 
sirous of making any communication to princes considered, foreign by the 
British government, the dispatches ought to be delivered to the Resident at 
their court, by whom they would be conveyed to their destination through the 
established official channels. 

The following Table is m attempt to present an abstract view of the re- 
lative area and population of the whole as they now exist; but the calcu- 
lation must only be regarded as an approximarion to tiie truth, the kin- 
perfection of the statistical documents precluding idl idea of strict accuracy. 



INTRODUCnON. 


xxxvii 


TABLE 

OF THE RELATIVE AREA AND POPULATION OF THE MODERN STATES 

OF HINDOSTAN FOR A. D. 1820. 


Beagll, B^ar, and Benarea 162,000 39,000,000 

Additions in Hindostan swce A. D. 1765 148,000 18/)00,OQ0 

Gwrwal, Komaon, and the tract between the Sutuieje and Jumna. 18,000 500^000 

Under the Bengal Presidency 328^ 57,500,000 

Under the Madras Presidency 154,000 15,000/)00 

Under Uie Bombay Presidency 11,000 2,500,000 

Tenritones in the Deccan, 8lc. acquired since 1815, and not yet 
attached to any Presidency 60,000 BjOOOfiOO 

Total under die British Govenunent 553,000 83,000/100 

BritUk AUm and TribaUma. 

96/100 10,000,000 

The Nngpoor Raja 70,000 3,000/100 

The King of Onde . . . 20,000 3,000,000 

TiwGukowar 18,000 2,000/100 

Kotah 6,500, Boondee 2,500, Bopaul 5,000 14,000 1,500/XlO 

The Mysore Raja S17/X10 3/100,000 

The Satarab Raja 14,000 1,500^000 

Tnvancore 6,000, Cochin 2,000 8,000 1,000,000 


Under the Rajas of Joudpoor, Jeypoor, Odeypoor, Bicanere, 
Jeasrimere, wad other Rajpoot chiefs; Holcar, Ameer Khan, 
the Row of Cutch, and innumerable odier petty nadve chiefs ; 
Smks, Goods, Bheels, Coolies, and Catdes, all comprehended 


afidiin die line of Biitidi protection 

283,000 

15/100/100 

Total British and dimr allies 

lOS/IOO 

123,000,000 

Jndqwndml Statn. 

TboNepaid Riyn 

53,000 

2/100/00 


SOyOOO 

3/00/100 

The 

UfiOH 

l/KJO/QO 

tVMfiiifittiftT .iiCSiiNliii 

40/100 



loyooo 

iiBOjQOO 

1 

1 

1 


lu/xtifm 



XXXVIU 


INTRODUCTION. 


Most of the chief towns of Hindostan are now comprehended wtlhin die 
British dominions, but scarcely any detailed reports of their population have 
ever been published. The following estimate is composed from a variety of 
‘ documents, but must be, like the preceding table, considered only as an approid'* 
jnation to the reality. Those marked thus (*) belong to native powers. 


Number of inhabitanti. Number of Inbebltunl** 

Benares 600,000 Ahmedabad .... 100,000 

Calcutta 500,000 * Cashmere 100,000 

Surat 450,000 Furruckabad .... TdooO 

Patna 312,000 Mirzapoor 60|000 

Madras 300,000 Agra 60,t)00 

♦Lucknow 200,000 Bareily 60,0p0 

♦ Hyderabad . ... 200,000 Burdwan ..... 54,000 

Dacca 180,000 Bangalore 50,000 

Bombay 170,000 Chuprah 43,000 

Delhi 150,000 Seringapacam . . 40,000 

Moorshedabad .... 150,000 Broach 33,000 

Poona 120,000 Mangalore .... 30,000 

♦ Nagpoor 100,000 * Palhanpoor .... 30,000 

♦ Baroda 100,000 


There are many other towns such as Amritsir, Lahore, Jeypoor, Bhurtpoor, 
Gualior, Juggernauth, Aurungabad,&c. of considerable size and population, but 
the particulars have never been ascertained. In 1805, according to official 
returns transmitted, the total number of British bom subjects in Hindostan was 
31,000. Of these 22,000 were in the army as officers and privates; the civil 
officers of government of all descriptions were about 2000 ; the free merchants 
and mariners, who resided in India under covenant, were about 5000; the 
officers and practitioners in the courts of justice 300 ; • the remaining 1700 
consisted of adventurers who bad smuggled themselves out in various capadries. 
Since the date above mentioned no detailed reports have been published ; but 
there is reason to believe that even now the total number of British bom sub* 
jects in Hindostan of all descriptions is considerably under 40,000, the rmnoval 
of the restrictions on the commercial intercourse having, contrary to expectarion, 
added very few to the previous number. Compared with the West Indies and 
other tropical regions, Hindostan may be considered a very healthy country, hoilig 
little affiicted with many distempers that arc destructive in Europe; bat on the 
other hand it has maladies from which Europe is exempted. Cancer is nearly* 
unknown withm the tropics, and phthisis pulmoiuilis is not comnum. Scrimhuil 
IS rate, aldiough instances occur from particular causes: and ^ fonnaridik of 



Wm^DUCTluN. xxxix 

stone in the bladder » but r&ty seldom experienced. Although the climate 
does not altogether prevent the attacks of the gout, yet they are certainly less 
commcm and severe than in cold countries. Acute rheumatism is rare between 
the tropics, and the chronic land is more easily cured than in Europe. ' Con- 
tagious distempers, such as the yellow fever and plague, are altogether un- 
known, which is a fortunate circumstance for the crowded population of the 
Company’s old provinces. Within the last five years a new and very fatal 
disease has visited at different periods every portion of Hindostan, and swept 
off great numbers of the natives, but its virulence has latterly very much 
abated, as it originally commenced, without any assignable cause, either from 
improvement of climate, diet, habits, or mode of treatment. 

The army required for the protection of these extensive provinces, and for the 
retaining them under due subordination, although it presents a formidable 
grand total, probably does not amount to one-fifth of the number maintained by 
the Mogul sovereigns and their functionaries, when that empire was in its zenith ; 
yet even under the ablest of the emperors, commotions in some quarter of their 
ill-subdued territories were unceasing. The British system in India has always 
been to keep the troops in a constant state of preparation for war, but never to 
enter into unprovoked hostilities, or engage in any contests except those ren- 
dered necessary by the principle of self-defence. Indeed for many years past the 
magnitude of its acquisitions has been such as to furnish sufficient occupation 
for its exertions in coercing its numerous »ubjects of all descriptions and reli- 
gions, and improving their internal condition. The following return of the 
military forces, regular and irregular, serving in India, was laid before parliament 


on the 22d of March, 1819 : 

Regulars . — King’s troops. Cavalry 4,692 

Infantry 17,858 

Total King's 22,550 

East India Company’s European artillery .... 4,583 

European infantry 3,120 

Total Company's Europeans 7,703 

Native cavalry 11, 01 1 

Native infantry 132,815 

Native artillery including gun*! 

Lascars attached to the £u- > 8,759 

ropean artillery . . . .) 

f«t»l I82»83i 



xl 


INTRODUCTION. 


Irregulars Native cavalry 

. Native infantry 17,082 

Total irregulars 24,741 

Invalids and pensioners . . 5,875 

Grand total 213,454 

The British armies actually in the field during the campaign of 1818, 
amounted to 95,000 men of singular efficiency, and if to each fighting i||aan 4 1 
followers be added, the sum total will give an aggregate of above half a iaillion 
of souls. 

The total revenue of every description, accruing to the British government in 
Hindostan, in 1817-18, 

Was estimated at 156,871,060 sicca rupees. 

Add acquisitions in A. D. 1818 .... 14,358,953 

nT^ii^GOO or £1 9,862,680 

In 1818, the aggregate debt of the three Presidencies amounted to 34 mil- 
lions sterling, and no great reduction of that, or any other national debt, is ever 
likely to take place, the expenditure always keeping pace with the increase 
of revenue. Indeed, were it practicable, it is not desirable, as the amount is 
not so enormous as to press on the industry of the country, and its influence 
forms a bond of connexion between the monied class of natives and the British 
government, which now pervades every comer of Hindostan. Its further aug- 
mentation, however, ought to be most strenuously resisted. 

For many years after the commencement of the British empire in India, the 
unavoidable necessity of extending its conquests was one of the great disadvan- 
tages attached to its dominion, for the wider they spread the more assailable did 
they become. In more recent times a process exactly the reverse has taken 
place, and the augmentation of territory by approaching the natural barriers of 
Hindostan, in place of increasing the defensive line of frontier has actually 
diminished it. Between Calcutta and the Indus there is nopy no hostile boun- 
dary, nothing but states bound together by a sense of common interest, or ai 
comparatively small proportion of ill-disp<wed population rendered incapable of 
rearing a hostile standard. But when the multiplication of points of defence is 
urged, the d^reased means of annoyance ought also to be tak^ into con- 
sideration, and its new situation has aot brought the Britidi government into 
contact with any state that has the power to give much troulde. within 
the Indus is consolidated under one confederatiem, of vdhidli the British govetn* 
ment is the head, while the Indus and its DeiMxt presei^ a baxnet i^^ainst 
common means of aggression ; — agmnst mighty tnvasUm in the cborie of ages 
no state whatever can be wholly seimie* Ode certa^ benefit 



INTRODUCTION. 


xh 


suited to ttw British d^Hniaions from the new order of things, which is, immunity 
from the ravages of a banditti generated and organized within the limits of Hin- 
dostan, against the recurrence of which it could never be secure while an asylum 
remained where the depredators could muster and refresh.. Henceforward, 
therefore, if dangers arise to Hindostan, they will be internal, and greatly at- 
tributable to the negligence of the local governments. 

In direct and authoritative controul, the dominion of the British government 
extends much farther than that possessed by any prior dynasty, whether 
Patan or Mogul, yet the latter, so long as they abstained from persecution, had 
nothing to apprehend from the religion of the Hindoos, and history proves that 
the commotions which agitated the Mahommedan monarchies chiefly arose from 
their own internal dissedj&ns, and national disputes. Neither does it appear 
that any prior conqueror ^rer employed disciplined corps of their own country- 
men in the defence of their own sovereignty, although they had to contend with 
one very numerous tribe, the Hindoo ; while the British, more advantageously 
situated, have two to put in motion against each other, and in process of time 
may raise up a third. Each foreign invader certainly favoured his own country- 
men, but it was by bestowing on them places and high appointments, which 
excited envy without essentially strengthening his domination. Besides, there- 
fore, total abstinence from persecution, the British government id a powerful 
corps, entirely European, and totally distinguished from the natives by colour, 
language and manners, possesses a solidity and consistence much beyond any of 
the prior Mahommedan dynasties. 

The dominion exercised by the British nation, notwithstanding certain im- 
perfections, has, on the whole, most undoubtedly been beneficial tO' the great mass 
of the native population ; although the peculiar circumstances in which it is 
placed precludes the higher classes from any participation in the superior frmc- 
tions of the state. Indeed, the natives of India, accustomed either to absolute 
command or implicit obedience, have not been practically found to make a 
beneficial use of delegated authority. Strictly speaking, however, those whom 
the British have, superseded were themselves strangers, and attention to dates 
in the perusal of the following pages will shew by how very short a tenure 
most of their possessions were held. The strength of the existing government 
has had the effect of securing its subjects as well from foreign depredation as 
from internal commotion, advantages rarely expejienced by *he subjects of 
Asiatic states, which, combined witii a domestic administration more just in its 
principles, and executed with far greater integrity tlian the native one that pre- 
ceded it, sufficiently account for the improvements that have taken place. On 
the othm: hand, were tlm territories so unexpectedly acquired to be restored to 

VOL. I. f 



^lii «NTRODUCT10N. 

A 

the natives, we should only transfer them from a state of the profoundest mteamal 
peace to sanguinary distractions, to profligate adventurers, and most probably 
to some rival European power. We cannot now, tiierefore, from a principle of 
justice and mercy, renounce die many millions we have so long and so effectually 
protected, and with all our superior advantages there is no reason to appt^end 
that the duration of the British empire shall not at the least equal that of the 
Moguls. In fact, if India be hereafter lost to Britain, it will be owing to cir- 
cumstances wholly extraneous to the system of government hitherto; pursued, 
or to some dereliction from the energy of that system. Time is ^certainly 
wanting for the present race to forget their past habits, and to acquire'' informa- 
tion on practical points, in which they are most deficient, for owing to the long 
subsisting anarchy in Hindoslan, all the relations of the community have become 
confused. On the British government will devolve the task of inculcating the 
principles of mild and equitable rule, distinct notions of social observances, and 
a just sense of moral obligations, the progressive result s>f which must inevit- 
ably be the adoption of a purer and more sublime system of religi6n.--CGoh - 
brooke, Sir William Jones, F. Buchanan, Sir Henry Strachey, Prinsep, the Mar- 
quis of Hastings, Erskine, C. Grant, Rennell, 5th Report, Public MS, Docu- 
ments, 8$c. 4’c. S^c.) 



HINDOSTAN. 



THE PBOriNCE OF BENGAL. 

CHAPTER L 

GEOGRAPHICAL SITUATIOX, BOUNDARIES, DIMENSIONS, SQUARE CONTENTS, 
TERRITORIAL SUBDIVISIONS, SURIACE OF THE COUNTRY, RIVERS, GANGES 
AND . BRAHMAPUTRA, PERIODICAL WINDS, SEASONS, CLIMATE, BAROMETER, 
AND THERMOMETER. 

This large province is situated towards the eastern extremity of Hindostan, 
between the 21st and 27th degrees of north latitude. To the north it is bounded 
by the dominions of Nepaul, the Sikkim Raja, and Bootan : to the south by the 
Bay of Bengal', on the east it has Assam and die Ava, or Birman territories; 
and on the west the province of Bahar. In length (including Midnapoor), it 
may be estimated at 850 miles, by 300 miles the average breadth. The follow- 
ing is its geogiRphical description by Abul Fazel in 1582. 

** The Soubah of Bengal is situated in the seccmd climate. From Chittagong 
to Kurkee is 400 coss, Merence of longitude ; and from the northern range of 
mountains to the southern extremity of Circar Madaroon (Birboom), compre- 
hends 200 COBS of latitude. When Orissa was added to ^Bengal, the additional 
length WM computed to be 43 coss, and the breadth 20 coss. Bengal was 
oii^Uy called Bung. The Soubah Bengal consists of 24 circars, and 787 
mabals. The revenue is 14^961,482, and the Zemindars (who are mostly koits) 
himidi 23,830 cavalry, 801,158 infrntry, 170 elephants, 4,260 cannon, and 
4>d00 hoats.** 

I In 1582, when AM Fazel compiled the institatesof Acber,t3m gover^^ 
Id t&d Jiio^ur OtissA not boiM tiioii 



2 THE PROVINCE [okoorafuy. 

formed into a distinct Soubah, which appears from the arrangeanmit of the 24 
Circars, extracted from the same work. 

•f 1. Oudumbher, or Tandeh; 2. Jennetabad; 3. Futt^bad; 4. Msdimooda* 
bad; 5. Khalifetabad ; 6. Bokla; 7. Pumeah; 8. Tanjepoor; 9. Ghor^l^t; 
10. Pinjerah; 11. Barbuckabad; 12. Bazooha; 13. Soonergong; 14. Silhet ; 
15. Chatgong; 16. Shereefabad; 17. Solimabad ; 18. Satgong; 19. Madanm; 
20. Jellasir; 21. Buddruck; 22. Cuttek; 23. Kollaiigdunpaut; 24. Ra|c 
Mahindra. The five last are in Orissa.” j 

The geographical position of Bengal is singularly happy with ieBp|^ to 
security from the attacks of foreign enemies. Along the whole uoVtheiii 
frontier from Assam, westward, there runs a belt of low land from 10 to 
20 miles in breadth, covered with the most exuberant vegetation, pardcukriy 
a rank weed, named in Bengal the augeah grass, which sometimes grows to the 
height of 30 feet, and is as thick as a man’s wrist, and mixed with these are 
tall forest trees. Beyond this belt rise the lofty mountains of northern Hin- 
dostan, the population of which is thinly scattered, and was formerly esteemed 
unwarlike, which opinion the recent war with the Nepaulese has tended con- 
siderably to modify. 

On the south of Bengal is a sea coast guarded by shallows and impenetrable 
woods, with only one port, and that of extremely difficult access. It is only 
on the west that any enemy is to be apprehended, and there the natural 
barrier is strong, and the adjacent countries sterile and thinly peopled. The 
river Ganges intersects Bengal in a south easterly direction, and separates it into 
two territorial divisions nearly equal in extent : in case of invasion the tract to 
the east of that river would be exempt from the ravages of war, and present an 
asylum to the inhabitants, especially against armies of cavalry. The north-west 
is the most assailable quarter, but possesses many strong points of defmice. 

The area of Bengal and Bahar is 149,217 square nules, and with Benamia 
not less than 162,000 square miles. The following proportions of tins aur&ce 
are grounded on many surveys after making allowance for large rivers : 


Rivers and lakes (one-eighth) .... 9 Ports. 

Deemed irreclaimable and barren (one-sixth) 4 

Site of towns and villages, highways, pon^, &c. (one 

twenty-fourth^ 1 

Free lands (three twenty -fourths) .... 9 

Remaining liable for revenue 

In tillage (three eighths) , . 9 

Waste (one-sixth) . 4 



3 


oE0««AKBr.] OF BENGAL 

file fonowing calculation by the late Mr. Crisp gives another, result. 

AcecH^i^ to a general estimate of Major Rennell's, the whole of Bengal con* 
talna 07>244 S(!|uare miles. If from this we deduct that portion of Tiperah 
which is independent, the woods called the Sunderbunds, and other wastes, 
13,244 square miles, the remaining inhabited country will be equal to 84,000 ; 
but the extent of waste, and surface occupied by rivers, &c. seems here greatly 
underrated. 

Prior to the cessions made by the Nabob of Oude in 1801, the country im- 
mediately subordinate to the presidency of Calcutta, or as it is termed in the 
official records. Fort William, comprehended the entire soubahs of Bengal and 
Bahar, with the districts of Benares (in Allahabad) and Midnapoor (in Orissa), 
besides some tracts of country which had maintained their independence even 
in the most flourishing periods of the Mogul empire. The latter consisting of 
the Morung, Cooch Behar, and some other sections of territory which have 
become tributary since the English acquired their present influence in Bengal. 
For many years after tlie conquest, the revenue being collected, and justice 
administered, through the medium of native agents, the ori^nal Mahommedan 
fiscal divisions into large Zemindaries, were allowed to continue unaltered ; but 
subsequently, when it was determined to introduce an improved system of 
police and jurisprudence, the province was subdivided into the following 17 
districcs, each of which will be found described hereafter, viz. 

Backergunge, Jessore, Pumeah, Tiperah, 

Birboom, Mymansingh, Rajshahy, 24 Pergurnahs, 

Burdwan, Moorshedabad, Rungpour, Midnapoor, 

Chittagong, Nuddea. Silhet, The Jungle Mahals. 

Hooghly, 

The first aspect of this country suggests for it the designation of a flat 
champaign country. The elevated tracts it contains are only an exception to 
the general uniformity, and the inundation which annually takes place in the 
regions watered by the Ganges, seems the consequence of a general descent, 
and does not any further invalidate the notion of a general level. The tract of 
aanuud inundation was anciently called Beng, whence probably the name Bengal 
wan derived; the upper parts of Bengal, which are not liable to inundation, 
wete called Bareudra. 

Bke, which is luxuriant in the tract of inundation, thrives in all the southern 
c^wbricta ; but in the ascent of the Ganges, it is observed gradually to y»rid the 
fitvt |daoe in husbandry to wheat and lorley . The mulberry, acctimati^ in the 
aaddle districts (d‘ Bengal, shews a better defined limit where it mettks tiw 
pep^y, wy<^ is peculiar to the northern and western provmcee. tn tiw 



4 THE PROVINCE Cwv»i» 

of the Hindoos, the resort of the antelope sanctifies the conntry graoed hy 14» 
presence, an opinion more connected with physical observation than widi 
popular prejudice. The wide and open range in whidi the antdope delights, 
is equally denied by the forests of the mountain and the inundation of the fen. 

Throughout this whole province, there are no hills to be found of any con- 
siderable elevation, and but for the extreme flatness of the southern quartan, 
would more deserve the name of inequalities of surface tlmn hills. These 
rising grounds are situated mostly in the districts of Birboom, Silhet, phitta- 
gong, and the eastern boundaries of Tiperah, and cover but a very small apace 
of the whole area. 

Bengal from its western boundary to the sea, is watered by the Gangeia, and 
is intersected in every direction by many navigable streams, which fall into 
that river, and which will be found described along with the districts through 
which they principally flow. There is no district wholly destitute of internal 
navigation during the rains ; and even during the driest season, there is scarcely 
any part 20 miles distant from a navigable river. In most of them lakes, 
rivulets, and watercourses, communicating with great rivers, conduct boats to 
the peasant’s door ; but his valuable produce being reaped at other seasons, 
and from necessity disposed of as soon as gathered, he derives less benefit from 
the inland water communication, than the survey of its extent would lead us to 
suppose. Land carriage conveys the great part of produce from the place of its 
growth to that of its embarkation on the Ganges. 

In a country so level as Bengal, and where a great proportion of the-soU con- 
sists of loose materials, upon which running water has a powerful action, thb 
rivers are not only gradually and constantly changing their places, by wearing 
away different portions of their banks, but very often a small obstacle placed 
iiU>ne of their channels, forces the water to form another, and as that by degreai 
becomes wider, the first is left empty in the dry season, or ceasing to have a 
current forms a stagnant marsh. This old bed usually retains its original name 
among the neighbouring dwellers, who continue to perform their religious 
ceremonies in the same places that their ancestors did. This has been a aouroe 
of infinite trouble to European geographers, who endeavoimng to trace a grmit 
river from where it joins the sea to its remote sources, by its primdjwl chamul, 
are surprised to find that it loses its name altogether, or, Uiat aimthear liver, 
after having for some part lost its original name, if traced furfibisr is fbund agiltt 
to resume it. 

Another circumstance also tends to perplex European gec^graplunrs, ^whkih 
is, wh^ in tramng a river they find, that an inoonsidmalfie stream bsto 
die m^ channel changes its name, and that the source of the ip^tt*** stream 



OF BENGAL. 


» ot»tina.td 7 conridered by the natives as being the rource of die river, 
having ieith«r been the first to which they had access, or having at one period 
been the largest. 

These changes in the conrses of rivers are evidently attended with considerable 
loss, the new channel teing so much land lost, while the old one exists as a 
lake or marsh. Ibe vicinity of the new course is deluged, owing to the small- 
ness of the channel, and the banks of the old lose their fertility, and the means 
of transporting their produce to market* Towns must consequently disappear, 
and the uncertainty of their place of abode seems one of the reasons, which 
prevent the inhabitants of Bengal from building more substantial and com- 
fortable houses. The forming of new cuts therefore for the purposes of 
commerce, seems on this account hazardous, and, except near the sea, should 
be generally avoided. Sudden changes, however, cannot be altogether pre- 
vented, yet one great cause of their commencement, the trees that fell into the 
liver, might be removed, and to render this effectual, the proprietor should 
be compelled to remove all trees growing within 20 feet of a mouldering bank. 

The gradual changes that are constantly takii^ place in the Bengal rivers, 
are attended with much inconvenience to the landholders; one person’s 
property being carried away, and that of another enlarged, while the land tax 
on teth continues the same. It results from this, that the first becomes 
to liquidate his arrears to government, while the other being suddenly enriched, 
acquires habits of expense, which on the next aberration of the river he is 
unable to relinquish. No buildings intended for duration are raised on so 
nnttaUe a foundation, so that the wealthy so situated, have little comfort in 
their dwellings, and the country is destitute of ornament. With regard to those 
of the poorer classes, a vill^e in Bmigal is removed 4 or miles with very little 
inconvenience, such a change of place being considered as an ordinary casualty, 
frequently occasioned by an unseasonable shower. These migrations affect the 
inlmbitaats but very little, for even in common there are not many houses that 
last three years; partly owing to the slightness of the materials, and. partly to 
the frequency of fires. 

The principal rivers of Bengal are the 


Oenges, Teetta; 

Brihinaputra, Kooram, 

]l^|marrain,. Korotoya, 

iGHaonisiooda, Manas, 


Cosi, 

Conki, 

Manas.. 


the two first, from their nmgnitude and importance in the estimathm of 
WilhnMb lie entitled to more detailed descriptions than the smaUer atzeasuh 
will, however, be noticed lespectivdy in the courie of the work, whun 



0 THE PROVINCE laXvam, 

the districts through which>they flow come under examination, Hiere are no 
.lakes in Bengal resembling those of Scotland or Canada, but there mre a precision 
of extensive jeels, which may be either denominated shallow lakes, or deep 
morasses. A great proportion of these in the driest part of the season contahi 
little water, but during the rains present immense sheets over which boats of the 
greatest burthen may be navigated, and some jeels are navigable to a certain extent 
during the whole year. There is reason to believe, that nearly all the^ stagnant 
sheets of water, rest, in what were at a remote period ^e channels of large rivers, 
which have since altered their courses, and now flow in another direction. 

In 1815 the total sum authorized by the Bengal government to be expend^ for 
the repairs of embankments was 247,457 rupees, and the districts in which it was 
principally disbursed were the following, abstracting from the sums the fractional 
parts; viz. 

Burdwan - 46,000 rupees. Hidjellee - 27,000 rupees. 

Moorshe labad 26,000 Tumlook - 30,000 

Midnapoor - 30,000 24 Pergunnahs 11,9*10 

Cuttack - 24,000 Allahabad - 3,000 

Jessore - 18,000 Tirhoot - 3,000 

Rajshahy - 27,000 

THE GANGES. 

Prior to the commencement of the 19th century the Ganges had been traced 
by Hindoo pilgrims from Hindostan into the snowy mountains, which run in a 
direction north-west to south-east, on the frontiers of India : and, on the side of 
Tibet, had been approached by Lama surveyors, whose route terminated at 
Kmitaisse, a range of snowy mountains on the west and south of Tibet. Ibe 
intervening space was a region of conjecture and romance ; whether a vast tract 
of Alpine country interposed, or simply a ridge of lofty mountains, clothed m 
eternal snow, which last proposition seemed the most probaMe. 

Until 1807 all the maps represented the river as flowing within the Himalaya 
chain of snowy mountains, many hundred miles, from an imaginary lake 
Mapama to Gangoutri. This course appeared to Mr. Colebrooke, and to the late 
Lieut. Col. Colebrooke, to rest on very slender foundatioiis. They riuiv^t it very 
improbable that a stream less dian the Alacananda, as the Bhaghathi was repre- 
sented to be, should have its source so much more remote than Bie larger atreMaf 
and, that flowing (as was supposed), for many hundred mile s through a mountahioiie 
legion, it should receive no greater accesstem firom torrents. Hhanm 

Poori, the Sanyassi, had before this abo declared, Hist the river -at Qaafoeif^ 
which had been visited by him on his retam from Cashiaaie was to aavivw, 



«Airo«.3 OF BENGAL. 7 

it aolglit be leaped over, which » incompatible with the notion of a distant source 
of ibe river. So narrow a stream could only be a mere brook or rivulet, whose- 
rmnptest source, these gentlemen conjectured, must be only a few miles distant. 

To verify or disprove these assertions, Lieutenant Webb was sent by the 
Bengal government in 1808, to survey the sources of the Ganges, and the infor- 
matkm he acquired determined him to assign them a situation south of the 
Himalaya mountains. His reasons for adopting thw opinion he has published, 
the principal of which are : 

Ist. That it had been universally experienced during his journey, that the 
supply of water from springs and tributary streams was sufficient in a course of 
8 or 10 miles, to swell the most minute rivulet into a considerable and unfordable 
stream. 

2ndly. The courses of the Ganges and Alacananda rivers were followed, until 
the former becomes a shallow and almost stagnant pool, and the latter a small 
stream, and 1>oth having in addition to springs and rivulets, a considerable addition 
from the thawing of the snow. It is therefore concluded from analogy, that the 
sources of these rivers could be little if at all removed from the station where 
these remarks were collected. 

No doubt riierefore can remain, that the different branches of the river above 
Hurdwar take their rise on the southern side of the highest ridge of snowy moun- 
tains ; and it is presumable, that all the tributary streams of the Ganges, including 
the Saijeu or Goggra, and the Jumna, whose most conspicuous fountain is at 
a little from the Ganges, also rise on the southern side of that chain of 

mountains. 

Every account agreed that the source of the Ganges was more remote than the 
place called Gangoutri, which is merely the point whence it issues from Himalaya, 
but not as related, through a secret cavern or passage resembling a cow s mouth, 
beytmd which place the current was still perceptible, although the access was so 
difficult, as to arrest the prepress of the European travellers. The Moonshee, 
however, having the additional stimulus of religious zeal, i>enetrated several 
milea beyond Gangoutri, and in the course of his journey frequently crossed the 
Ganges on bridges compsed of one or two fir trees laid across it from bank to 
hmtA la 1^ field book (published in the Asiatic Researches) he has noted ffie 
breadth the river where last seen by him ; but at Gangoutri he describ^ ttm 
of die stream as 40 cubits wide by about two deep, with scarcely any 

After leavuig the post where the European traveUers stopped, (17 miles^s^ 
ftma Gangoutri) the Moonshee m,w several vUlages, sudi as 

Umla, Cachora and Dhevali, the last containing 25 huts, five w 



8 THE PROVINCE toANeai, 

which were inhabited ; and in the course of 20 miles horuontal distence, the 
Ganges received the following streams, besides several rivulets and mountaia 
torrents : 


The Soar, 

The Deorani, 

The Shinan, 

Tiar, 

Lotgarh, 

Gongi, 

Khotmari, 

Jelari, 

Harsila, 

Revi, 

Bhela, 

Gangasarti, 

Calyani, 

Choraki, 

Laconya, and 

Runka, 

Pachahar, 

JahniGanga, (flowin^^ with 

Malicha, 

Gangotri, 

great rapidity) 

Bhangeli, 
As the Moonshee 

Nibani. 

proceeded upwards after leaving Gangoutri, the river was 


occasionally perceived among the snow ; but at the distance of 3 miles from 
that place ^e snow so completely filled its bed, that it could neither be seen nor 
the sound of its current heard, and the superincumbent snow being soiled 
appeared like a cultivated field. Five hundred yards further on the sacred river 
again showed itself ; but in front was a steep mountain rising up like a huge wall, 
from an angle of which the Ganges appeared to issue, but all beyond was an 
impenetrable mass of snow. The height of the place where Captain Hodgson 
halted, near to which the Ganges issues from under the great snowy bed, was 
calculated to be 12,914 feet above the level of the sea. 

Such is the disappearance of the Bhagirathi, or sanctified branch of the Ganges, 
as described by the pious and persevering Moonshee; butcertainly the Hauli ought 
to be considered the main stream of the Ganges, if length of course be entided 
to that distinction : for the Dauli proceeds from the very base of the highest ridge 
of the enormous Himalaya chain, and one of its tributary streams issues from the 
pass which leads through these mountains, whereas the Alacananda, (the neit 
longest branch), has its .source in the inferior hills short of the snowy mountains. 

From Gangoutri the Ganges has the upper part of its course among the inoon> 
tains, Bowing from the south of east, to the nortli of west, and it is only firom 
Sookie. where it fiurly pierces through the Himalaya, that it assumes a comae of 
about south 20* west to Hurdvrar, where it issues from the mountains, and frmn 
thence to its conflux with the Jumna at Allahabad, the first large river that 
it in Hindostan proper, the bed of the Ganges is generally from a mile to a tffiSe 
and a quarter wide. From hence its courae hecomm mcae win^ag^ a^ bed 
wider, un^ having successively received the Ooggra, Ae Boane, and die Qnak 
duck, besides many smaller streams, its channel attains its full width, as it after- 
wards becomra so narrow in some parts as half a mile; and, where no Idan4a 
intsipose, is in some places' three miles wide. Vfaen at its loweat, the j^Eind^pil 



OF BENGAL. 9 

iKiiM fiom 400 yiunlt to U miks wide» but is commonly about I of a 
mieiit breads 

tlm Ganges is findable at some places above its conflux with flie Jumna, but the 
nasigaitiim is never interrupted. At 500 miles from the sea the channel is 30 feet 
deep, when the river b at its lowest, which depth continues to the sea, where the 
sudden expansion of the sbream deprivesit the force necessary to sweep away 
the bars of sand and mud, thrown across it by the strong southerly winds, so that 
the principal branch of the Cbnges cannot be entered by large vessels. 

It might be expected that thb immmise river, fed by innumerable sources and 
springbtg from what are probably the highest mountains in the world, would in 
tte spring receive large additions from the melting of the snow, and consequently 
increase in bulk. Some of the branches exhibit such increase ; but the augmen- 
tation is in general by no means considerable. The melting of the snow undoubt- 
edly contributes to enlarge the river, but b not sufficient to counteract other 
causes tending to its diminution, so that at any considerable distance from the 
sources of the Ganges, as at Patna, any cause affecting these sources produces no 
sensible change in the height of the waters. 

About 200 miles from the sea, but 300 reckoning the windings of the river, 
commences the Delta of the Ganges. The two westernmost branches, named 
the Cossimbazar and Jellinghy rivers, unite and form what is afterwards named 
the Hooghly or Bhagirathi river, which forms the port of Calcutta, and the only 
branch of the Ganges that b commonly navigated by ships. Below the channel 
named the Sangti Mohana, where the Ganges sends off these two branches, which 
go to Calcutta, the main stream among the natives loses not only its name, but 
the greater part of its sanctity. Ibe Cossimbazar river is almost dry from 
October to May; the Jellinghy river, although a stream runs in it during the 
whole year, b in some years unnavigable during two or three of the driest months; 
so that the <mly secondary brandi of the Ganges that b at all times navigable for 
boats, b the Oiandnah river, which separates at Moddapoor, and terminates in 
the Hooringgotta rivm. That part of the Delta bordering on the sea b composed 
of a labyrinffi of creeks and rivers, named the Sunderbunds, which, induding the 
rims ti^t bound it, give an expansion of 200 miles to the branches of the Gbnges 
at its junction with ffie sea. 

the descent eff tiib river b about nine inches per mile ; but the windings are 
so great as to reduce the dedivity to less than 4 mches per mile. In the dry 
hrisoa the ibean rate of motion b less than 3 miles per hour. In the wet 
•aasaii, an4 whBe the waters are draining off frmn the muudated 
tbammliuttt from 8 to fl miles an hour, imdthetoareifisteiicesofiie fumiiig? 

mt»h 


c 



THE PROVINCE 


10 


([OAKOBS. 


The Ganges owes part of its increase to the nda that &Ub in the mc»iiitaii»» 
although it does not appear to be much affected by melting of the snow eariy 
in spring. The sum total of its rising is 32 feet, out of wUch it rises 151 feet, 
by the latter end of June, and the rainy season does not properly begin in 
most of the flat countries until about that time. In the mountains the rains 
begin early in April, and by the end of that month, when the rain water Im 
reached Bengal, the rivers begin to rise by very slow d^rees, the increase 
being only one inch per day for the first fortnight. It then gradually augments 
to 2 and 3 inches before any quantity of rain has fallen in the countries | and 
when the rain becomes general, its increase, at a mediunl, is 5 inch^ per ^^ay. 
By the latter end of July all the lower parts of Bengal, contiguous to the 
Ganges and Brahmaputra, are overflowed, and form an inundation of more 
than 100 miles in width, nothing appearing but villages and trees, and here and 
there the artificial site of an abandoned villige appearing like an island. 

Owing to the quantity of rain that falls in Bengal, the lands in general are 
overflowed to a considerable height long before the bed of the river is filled, the 
ground adjacent to the river bank, to the extent of some miles, being higher 
than the rest of the country. There are particular tracts guarded from inunda* 
tion by dikes, which are kept up at an enormous expense ; yet do not always 
succeed, owing to the want of tenacity in the soil of which they are com- 
posed. It is calculated diat the length of these dikes, coUectivdy, exceeds 
1000 miles. 

Tabu of the increase of the Gar^ and its bnmches. 

AtJellinghy. At Dacca. 


In May it rose 6 ft. 0 in 2 ft. 4 in. 

June 9 6 ....4 6 

July .... r .... 12 6 .... 6 6 


In the first half of August ... 4 0 .... 1 11 

Feet 32 0 F^t 14 3 


The inundation is nearly at a stand in Bengal for some days preceding the 
15th of August, when it begins to run off, although great quenl^t^ of nhl 
continue to fall during August and September; but a ctemeaie of rain has.t^ 
this time taken place to the north, and a consequent deficiency in the supply 
to keep up the inundation. The rdmly decrease the daviny , 

latter ^f of August and September, is from 3 to 4 inches ; ftom Seoteate to ; 

^ gradually lessens ftmn 3 inches to 1 intotoi toil 
r to tte end of April, is only half an inch per day at a 

pproac mg the sea, from the limits to which the tide feadwa, the of 



«Air0».] OF BENOAL. 11 

^ 10 , periodidil increatMd gpradiially dinuiuthes, untU it totally disappears at the 
potnt of confioence with the eea. The- ocean preserving at all times the same 
level, necessarily influences the level of the waters that communicate with it. 
At Lttckipoor there is a difference of about 6 feet, between the height at the 
diffiarent seasons; at Dacca, and places adjacent, 14; and at Custee, of 31 
feet. The latter place is about 240 miles from the sea, by the course of the 
rivCr; and the surfece of the river tiiere, during the dry season, is 80 feet above 
the level of the sea at high water. 

The quantity of water discharged by the Ganges in one second of time, during 
the dry season, is 80,000 cubic feet; but the river when full, having twice the 
volume of water in it, and its motion being accelerated in the proportion of 
5 to 3, the quantity discharged at that season is 405,000 cubic feet. Taking 
the medium of the whole year, it will be nearly 180,000 cubic feet per second of 
time. When the inundation is drawing off, the quantity of sand and soil held in 
suspension by the waters of the G^ges is so great, that in the year 1794, 
one of the mouths of the Bhagirathi, that opened at Sadigunge, in Bengal, 
nearly opposite to Sooty, full five miles in length, was filled up to nearly on a 
level with the contiguous country in the course of a week, although it must 
have contained above 900,000,000 solid feet. 

In Bengal the banks of the Gkmges exhibit a variety of appearances, according 
to the nature of the soil, or the degree of force with which the current strikes 
against them. In those parts, where the velocity of the stream is greatest, and 
the soil extremely loose, they become perpendicular, and tumble in so fire- 
quently, as to render it dangerous to approach them. The bank is often 
excavated into a number of deep bays, with projecting points between them, 
round which the current rushes with great rapidity; but is considerably 
riackened, and has even a retrograde motion, in the interior part of the gulfi 
In the higher parts, where a conker soil (a hard, reddish, calcareous earth,) pre- 
vail, the banks of die Ganges are not so liable to be undermined. 

The Rajemal hills, firom which several rocky points project into the river, as 
Sicrygully, Pointy, and Pattergotta, have for ages opposed effectually the 
encroachments of the river. The depth of the water in the navigable part of 
die Ganges, not fiur from Colgong, is frequently upwards of 70 feet ; yet in this 
neighbourhood new islands We risen to more than 20 feet above the level 
of die stream, The quandty of land that has been destroyed by the river in the 
qomrse of a few years, from Colgong to Sooty, will amount, on a moderate 
odeuiadon, to 40 sqW^ or 25,000 square acres; but dus is in a great 
moasiue conateihal*^’^*^ % aHari^ that has taken plabe <m the qpW^ 
■ -€2 , 



THE PEOVINCE [oavovs. 

shore, and by the new island of Snndeep, whkli akme eonliiiui above 10 
square miles. 

In its course through the plains the Ganges receives 11 rivers, some of vriiicb 
are equal to the Rhine, none smaller than the Thames, besides a great many 
others of lesser note. The largest tributary streams to the Chmges bn Ee&gal 
and Bahar, are the Goggra, the Soane, and the Cosa. Such of these rivers as 
are narrowest, are remarkable for their windings; the larger rivers baring a 
tendency to run in more direct lines. | 

Within the space of 100 miles, the Ganges, by the winding of its .oottfse, 
is calculated to increase the distance to 125 miles. 

The Goggra, or Dewa, to 1 12 miles. 

The Hooghly, from Calcutta to Nuddea, increases from 60 to 76 miles. 

The Goomty, from its outlet upwards, from 100 to 176 miles. 

The Issamutty and Jaboona, from Dewangunge to BansetuUah, increase firom 
100 to 217 miles. 

Although the sources of the Brahmaputra have never been explored, it is 
probable they are not very far separated from those of the Ganges. From hmice 
they direct their courses towards opposite quarters, until they are more than 
1200 miles asunder; but afterwards meet and intermix their waters before they 
join the sea, the Ganges having then performed a journey, including the 
windings, of about 1500 miles. 

It is only that part of the river which lies in a line from Gangoutri, where 
its feeble stream issues from the Himalaya, to Sagor island, below Calcutta, 
that is particularly sacred, and named the Gunga, or Bhagirathi. The Ho<^^bdy 
river therefore of European geographers is consideied the true Ganges; and 
the great branch that runs east to join the Biriunaputn, is, by the Hindoos 
called Puddah (Padma) or Padmawati, aiM is not 1^ them est^med equaBy 
sacred. Althou^ the water of the whole river from Qangmitri to Sagor in hdty, 
yet there are places more eminently sacred than the xoit, and to riuM fnlglima 
from a distance resort to perform their ablutions, and to take the water friat 
is used in their ceremonies. Wherever this river mns from the sottib to Iba 
north, contrary to the usual direction, it is consideied |M)CUliatly boly» and 
is called Uttarbahini. 

The most sanctified of the . holy places, are certain Pmyigs, mr jmierioM if 
rivers, of winch Allahabad, where the flanges and lumna iiiKite» ia ea toitoa d Bto 
principal, and by way of distmction named simply Pmyag. tW ilblia fto 
situated in Northern Hindostan, inthepioriitoe of 8ifiaa|toto<|tl^^ 
conflumce of the Akcananda, with diKaemit naiii rifiiia ifiid ili. liMiii 



atAHHAtt^TKA.] OF BENOAL. 13 

l>evi^7«g«, Buditpiftyaga, Casnf^rayaga, and Nandaprayaga. The other 
aaetad phoet are Hi^war, where the river first escapes from the mountains ; 
Vttara Janagui a short distance bdiow Mong^ ; amd Sagor island, at the mouth 
of the Oalctttta river, or Hoogly. Besides its sanctity, the Gang^ is much 
eateraied for its medicinal properties, and is on this account drank by many 
Ifabommedans. In 1792, Abd ul Hakeem, the reigning Nabob of Shahnoor, 
near the west coast of India, although a Mahommedan, never drank any other 
wator. 

In the Hindoo mythology, Ganga (the Ganges) is described as the daughter 
of the great mountain Himavata; her sister, Ooma, as the spouse of Mahadeva, 
the destroying power. 

She is called Ganga on account of her flowing throu^ Gang, the earth ; she 
is caUed Jahnavi, from a choleric Hindoo saint, whose devotions she interrupted 
on her passage to the sea, when in a fit of displeasure he drank her entirely 
up; but was afterwards induced by the humble supplications of the devas 
(demigods) to discharge her by his ears. She is called Bhagirathi, from the 
royal devotee Bhagoratha, who by the intensity and austerity of his devotions, 
brought her from heaven to earth, from whence she proceeded to the infernal 
r^ons, there to reanimate the ashes of some of his ancestors. And lastly, she 
is called Triputhaga, on account of her proceeding forward in three different 
directions, watering the three worlds, heaven, earth, and the infernal reg^oiui. 

According to the Brahminical mythology, the sea, althou g h dug before the 
descent of the Ganges from heaven, is, by the Hindoos, supposed to have been 
empty of water. In the Briti^ courts of justice throughout Bengal, the Ganges 
water is used to swear witnesses, in the same manner as the Evangelists are put 
into the hands of Christians, and the koian into those of Mahommedans ; but 
many lespeetaUe Hindoos refuse to comply with this ceremony, alleging that 
on swfo occasions it is forbidden to tou<^ the Ganges water, a Salgram, or a 
Bfahmin. When such cases occur, if the person be of good character, the 
judges permit him to give his evidence, in the uray most consistent with his 

Cofefouok, Cel. QMrooke, Webbe, Rapart the Mmi- 
A&MV F** JhdhHMif, JRsmayima, Ward, fy;, ^c.) 

Tab BuAniiArinrsA (Son of Brahma) Riveb.. The Brahmaputra is the 
yet amongst the least sacred, and is known in Tibet by 
. BiMni tii Sanpoo. The sources of this vast current have never been ev- 
ficiliMl, Isgdi il pRihable they will be found in the tract of elevated land, h. 
tlNliilifh Oaiks ranges of mountains, adjacent to Lake Manas* 

ItaaaMy M it «« "mf |ieat distance fi»m those of the Gwagas, Indiia, and 



14 THE PROVINCE [BEAHJCAtVTKA. 

of Tibet, or southern Tartary, whi»e it is known by the name of San]^, or 
Zanchoo, which is understood to mean ** the river,” in the same maimer as 
Oanga with the Brahminical Hindoos. In its course eastward it passes to the 
north of Diggarcheh, or Teshoo Loomboo, the residence the Teshoo Lama, 
where it is styled Eechoomboo, and thence flows in a wide expanded bed, 
through many channels, and forming a multitude of islands. Its principal 
channel near to Teshoo Loomboo, is narrow, deep, and never fordable. In 
this country it receives the tributary waters of the Pacnomchieu, and various 
streams from the south, and probably others from the norfli, unless th^surftce, 
as has been suspected, then declines to the north. Proceeding east i| panes 
Lassa, about 30 miles to the south, and taking a vast circuit round tilie moun* 
tains is again lost to European knowledge, but is conjectured to approach 
within 220 miles of Yunan, the most western province of China, where (about 
96” £.) making a sudden curve to the south, it again reappears in Assam, into 
which country it is supposed to descend by a series of cataracts, and up to 
which it is said to be navigable. 

On reaching Assam the Brahmaputra turns nearly due west, and receives a 
copious supply of water from that region of rivers. About 104 miles above 
Gohati, in longitude 91° 48' £., it separates into two branches, of which the 
northern is by far the greatest, and retains the name, while the southern is called 
Kolong ; they enclose an island five days* journey hr length, and about cme in 
width. Proceeding west it approaches the British possessions, where, after 
reaching the frontiers of Bengal, for above 20 miles it W the kingdom of Assam 
on its northern bank, while the southern forms part of British India. About 
(voalpara, the frontier town, its expanse is magnificent, and the scenery grand; 
but the water is extremely dirty, and the sur&ce, during the floods, covered 
with a dusky foam, intermixed with logs of wood, vast floats of reeds, and a 
great variety of dead bodies, especially those of men, demr, and oxen, which are 
scarcely less ofiensive to the senses, than the half-burned human careawes tm 
the banks of the sacred Ganges. 

Having penetrated through Assam, the Brahmaputra rodies to the notioe of 
Europeans in the Rungpoor district, with increased vdiune, and a c h ai me l at 
least a mile broad, and when not incumbered with islands, contmues neariy of 
the same width; but in several places these subdivide the channel hito iwmy 
parts, and enlarge its size, so that from bank to bank, them is often a 
of 5 miles. In the dry season, in this part its comie, the water no whewr” 
fills the channri, even where narrowest ; in the wet seaicm, except when teere 
are a few scattered hills, the river everyv^re overitoste ite banks, and in mmy 
parte deluges an extent of from 20 to 80 mfles, insulatiiig sw^ smaU MQs as am 



»«A»iiAP0TEA.] OF BENGAL. 35 

in the vieimty. In the Rnngpoor district the rise of the Brahmaputra usually 
commenees m April, and in the beginning of May increases still further. This 
may be partly owing to the meltmg of snow in the mountains ; but in general 
the swelQing of the river, and the inundation, are chiefly effected by the rains 
in the immediate neighbourhood. • A few feir days always diminish its size, and 
it never rises much except after very heavy rain. The rapidity and bulk of the 
river continue gradually to increase, and it attains its greatest elevation about 
the beginning of August, towards the end of which it subsides, and the current 
loses much of its force. The inundation contracts at the same time; and, 
although the river tisually rises once or twice in September and the beginning 
of October, it has never been known in these months to pass beyond the bounds 
of its regular channel. Within the limits of Bengal the Brahmaputra is not 
fordable at any season; but its navigation is rendered difficult by the great 
number of sand banks, and the trunks of trees half buried in its bed. Within 
the British territories, the numberless islands and nhatiuftls are undergoing 
incessant changes ; and the like mutations may be expected to continue. 

After entering Bengal, the Brahmaputra makes a circuit round the western 
point of the Garrow mountains, and then altering its course to the south in the 
Dacca province, is joined by the Megna, which although not the tenth part of its 
magnitude, most unaccountably absorbs its name, and communicates its own to 
the huge mass of waters, until they intermix with those of the Ganges, near the 
Bay of Bengal. In 1809, the Brahmaputra threatened, by a change of its 
course, to carry away all the vicinity of Dewangunge, and perhaps to force its 
way into the Nattore Jeels, in the Rajshahy district, which would very much 
disturb the modem geography of Bengal. The course of this river, including 
the windings, may be estimated at IG'^^O miles ; but it is the &te of the Brahma* 
putra to penetrate a rude dimate and barren boU, seldom approaching the 
habitations of civilized man, while the Ganges, on the contrary, flows aloug a 
fertile territory, and through rich and polished nations. Yet they meet at last in 
the same gulf of the ocean, so that they am not only nearly related in their birth, 
but united in their termination. 

During its journey through Bengal, the Brahmaputra bears so intimate a relation 
to the Ganges, that one description suits both, except that during the last sixty 
miles above thrir junction, under the name of Megna it forms a stream which 
is legidariy from 4 to 5 miles wide, and but for its fireshuess might pass for an arm 

the smu Hie union of these two mighty rivers below Luckipoor, now forms 
lA gulf, interspersed with many islands, some equal in rize to the Isle of 
i^The bore, which is a sudden and abrupt infliuc of the sea into a river or narrow 
preit, prevails in the prindpal branches of the Ganges, and in the Megna} bwt 



THE PEOVINCE 




16 

the Hooghly river and the 
gulf formed by the confluence of the Ganges and Brahmaputra, are more eiiiyieet 
to it than the other rivers. Notwithstanding its immense magnitude, the latter 
until 1765 was unknown in Europe as e capital river of India, nor did it ever 
among the Hindoos attain the same reputation for sanctity, or ccmciliate the nme 
interest, as its female neighbour, the Gaines. In Amam it is named Luait or 
Luhit, and in Sanscrit is called Luhityo, as well as Brahmaputra. The imnie last 
mentioned signifies the son of Brahma, the creator of the worid, and its vast iMdk 
might in a figi rativr sense entitle it to that appellation ; but such is nottim de- 
rivation given by Hindoo mythologists. According to these sages, it owes its 
origin to an intrigue which took place between Brahma and Omegha, the wife of 
a holy man named Santona, the particulars of which on account of their eidrava- 
eant indecency do not admit of narration.— (“F. Buchanem, Turner, BenmeU, 

Meona River. This is formed by the junction of numerous streams issuing 
from the mountains which form the northern and eastern boundaries of the Silhet 
district, but its course is short, and its bulk small, until its confluence with the 
Brahmaputra, about lat. 24” Ky N. after which it absorbs the name of the latter 
and communicates its own. Eighteen miles south-east from Dacca it is joined 
by the Issamutty, bringing the collected waters of the DuUasery, Boorigunga (or 
old Ganges), Luckia, and many smaller streams, tite aggregate forming an expanse 
of water resembling an inland sea. From hence the course of tiie Hegot is S.S.B. 
until it approaches the sea, when its volume is augmented by the gpreat Ghu^jet ; 
and they conjointly roll their muddy tide into the Bay of Bet^pal. Many ishmdt 
are formed from the sediment deposited by this vast My of water, among whicii 
number are Dukkinshahabazpoor (30 miles by 1-2), Hattia, Sundeep, and Baminy. 

The sand and mud banks extend 30 miles beyond these islaa^ and tiia in 
many places within a few feet of the surfoce. ^me foture geneiatiofi wM 
bably see these banks rise above water, and succeeding ones possess and csIliNaaa 
them ; but while the river is forming new islands at ita moutii, it is swespiag 
away and altering old ones in the upper part of its course. In the cimiiila 
between the islands, the height of the bore (the perpendksular iaihnt of ^ tide) 
is said to exceed 12 feet. After the tide is feiriy wt the iriands, the hoiellhal 
little seen, except in some narrow channels fotmea by sand beuhs} the htOid^l Of 
the main stream admitting the influx of the tide withirat any liisfit 
(Rennell, ^c. 4*c.; 

The periodical winds that prevail in the Bay oi Eeiwwii. —iinmt thilr indiiinai 
over the flat country, until they aie diverted hf 
dmw.011. wauly con,^oi>d«rt, ,rtUl 



uiavA.} OF BENGAL. 17 

uto « province is intersected by very large rivers, it is probable that the winds 
ate ntndi aiiBcted by thdr course. In the south of Ben^, die prevailing winds 
are nortli and south ; in Bahar they are east and west, and the saxne takes place 
kAnani„ Mowing the direction of the great river Brahmaputra. In Bengal 
northerly and southerly winds blow alternately, during unequal portions of the 
year, over that quarter of the province which faces the head of the bay. The 
seasons of Bengal conform nearly with these changes of the prevailing winds, 
arid are commmdy distinguished by the terms cold, hot, and rainy. 

In the beginning of April, and sometimes earlier, particuhuly in the south-eastern 
quarter of Bengal, there are frequent storms of thunder, lightening, wind and 
rain, from the north-west quarter, which happen more frequently towards the 
close of the day than at any other dme. During this season much attention and 
care is required in navigating the large rivers. These squalls moderate the heat, 
and continue until the setting in of the periodical rains, which generally com- 
tnence in the beginning of June. If the rains break up early in Septembtf, the 
weaker is intensely hot, and the inhabitants, especially the European part, 
become very sickly. The natives from the result of their own experience assign 
six seasons to the year, each containing two months. The spring and dry season 
occupy four months, during which the heat progressivdly increases, until it becomes 
almost intolerable, even to those bom in the country. In the middle districts it 
is lessened by occasional thunder storms, named north-westers ; and, in the 
eastern, milder showers of rain are still more frequmit and r^retii the atmos- 
phere. 

r The scorched inhabitants are at length relieved by the rainy season, which in 
general commences nearly at the same time throughout the whole province. 

1 st two months the rain is heavy and continual. In this period an 
my successive days is rare, and the rain pours with such force and 
titot three, four, and even five inches of water have been known to 
e day. In the two following months the intermissions are more 
of longer duration, and the weather more sultry. The rivers, and 
> Ganges^ which begin to rise even before the commencement of the 
continue to increase during the two first months of it, and the 
es its greatest height in the thud. By this time the rivers of Bengal 
md the Delta of the Ganges overflowed. The average annual M 

lower parts of Bengal, is seldom short of 70, and as rarely exceeds 

■ 

roach winter the rivers begin to decrease, the showers cease la 
inundation gradually drains off and evaporates. Fogi^ the smbitaL 
of amdiemqpontienm are frequmd^m^ 



18 THE PROVINCE [MKaifA. 

Bengal proper. Dew, at this season, is every where abundant and penetratxDg; 
and, in the' higher latitudes of India, as well as in the mountainous tracts of it, 
frost and extreme cold are experienced. Even in the flat <K>untry ice is obtained 
by the simple artifice of assisting evaporation in porous vessels, although the 
atmosphere be much warmer than the freezing temperature. 'Hiroughout the 
whole winter in Bengal, dews continue copious, and greatly assist v^tatkm, 
affording nearly as much moisture as com requires in a soil so loose. 

As the damp of the climate cannot be ascribed to any inherent moist^ of the 
soil, it must originate from causes on or above the surface : to the want of a 
general system of drainage in a level country, to the luxuriant vegetation, and 
to the closeness of the woods, which not being adequately opened obstruct the 
ventilation of the country, and retain a redundant and unwholesome quantity of 
moisture, amidst rotten leaves and putrid vegetable substances. In the bold 
and dry seasons the heavy dews are probably* not more than sufficient to supply 
the daily exhaustion of the sun, and probably rather contribute to salubrity 
than otherwise. Under these circumstances, the principal experiments should 
be directed to draining on a general plan, and the cutting of broad straight roads 
through the forests and jungles, as much as possilde in the direction of the pre> 
vailing winds. 

The great variety of lofty flower and fruit bearing trees, and the luxuriant 
bamboos, by which the cottages are shaded, would render their situations delight- 
ful, did not rank weeds and bushes shoot up with increasing vigour in every comer 
that is not in constant cultivation, prevent all circulation of air, preserve a 
constant damp noisome vapour, and haibour a great variety of loathsome and 
pernicious animals. The poverty, shyness, and indolence of the natives, espe- 
cially the two former, prevent them from removing these nuisances. They are 
fond of having their houses buried in a thicket which skreens their females from 
view. Besides this the adjoining thickets are their retreats on all occammu, 
which aggravates the other vile smells. 

In this province the barometer is very stationary, and semning^y nmiffiiwtifuf |>y 
changes of iemperaturr , for here, as in most cotmtries near the tropica, the haio- 
meter has a very confined range, and does not vary with the floctaataons of the 
temperature, owing to contrary but equal variations of density and einaticity of 
the air, and other countervailing causes not yet inveati^iated. ha Bengal, the 
column of meroury stands within a few tenths of an indi of the same he%ht^ it 
all seasons oi the year, auo exhibits, but within narrower limit *! ' th* 
of dianial tides, which also do not . onespond with the rise and ffifr pf 
®®®*^*^* the end of f ebnia^ the hnsemeier dees not vwy k 

of •n.iiidt shove or h^ow Bfr. jirtsii. ^uliihliss 



OF BENGAL. 


«oxt.} 


19 


t|ienncaneter in the shade ranges ten degrees (from 70* to 80*), and much more 
in an open exposure, between morning and noon. In the months of December 
and January, the season when the column of mercury is at its maximum, the 
mean elevation of the barometer is 30. 07, while that of the thermometer is 68^ 
fCtd^ooke, F. Buchman, RenmU, Abul Fazd^ Ikst, <§’c. ^x.) 


CHAPTER II. 

lOIL, 8UBSTEATA, MIKERALS, INUNDATION, AGRICULTURE, HUSBANDRY, MODES 
OF CULTIVATION, VEGETABLE PRODUCTIONS, STAPLE PRODUCTIONS, SUGAR, 
TOBACCO, SILK, COTTON, INDIGO, AND RICE. 

The general soil of Bengal is clay, witii a considerable proportion ot silicious 
land fertilized by various salts, and by decayed substances, animal and vegetable, 
[n the fiat country sand is everywhere the basis of this stratum of productive 
iarth, which indicates an accession of soil on land which has been gained by the 
lereliction of the water. A period of 30 years scarcely covers the barren sand 
with soil sufficient to fit it to reward the labours of the husbandmen, the lapse of 
tialf a century does not remove it hall a span from the surface. In tracts which 
ure annually immdated the progress is more rapid, because the superincumbent 
water, having clay in solution, deposits it in the process of evaporation. Run- 
ning water deposits sand, and keeps the clay, calcareous matter, and other fer- 
tilizing substances suspended. If the variable proportions of clay and sand, 
and the circumstance of frequent alterations in the channels of rivers be con* 
lidered, great inequalities of soil may be expected, although it be composed of 
few substances. 

In May 1814, a boring was commenced near the river Hoogly, in the vicinity 
of Calcutta, in search of a spring of pure water, which although unsuccessful, 
famished so much satisfactory information relative to the under strata of Bengal, 
Stliat it has bemi deemed expedient to insert here the table of the different pro- 
iwrtiims, which may be considered applicable to the province genertffiy ; — 

2 ft. Oft. dry earth and brick-dust. 

8 tb 6 indurivbt dry sand with a little day. 

7 -f* 2! blue clay with sand more or less. 

22 — 31 Idne day with sheer coal. 

i>2 



20 


THE PBOVINCE 


[tVMflATA. 


32ft. to 52ft. blue clay with a little rotten wood. 

53 — 56 blue clay with coal. 

57 — very stiff blue clay, with a little gravel (conker). 

58 — 61 the same, but the gravel mixed with greenish day. 

62 — the same without the greenish clay mixture. 

63 — 65 very stiff blue clay, with a little yellow day, mixed with a 

little conker. 

66 — 68 the same, but yellow sand in place of day. i 

69 — 70 stiff blue clay, with a little yellowish sand and day. * 

71 — 76 damp reddish clay, with a quarter of sand, with a yelli^ tinge 
from 73. 

77 — 84 yellow reddish clay, mixed with sand with a little talc. 

85 — 92 yellow clay mixed with sand. 

93 — 96 yellow sand inclining to clay. 

97 — 100 blue clay with yellow sand. 

100 — 102 lead coloured clay with yellow sand. 

103 — 105 blue and yellow clay, with yellow sand, and a little conker. 

108 - 113 the same with conker. 

114 — 118 stiff deep yellow clay with a little yellow sand. 

119 — 122 soft deep yellow clay with more y^ow sand. 

123 — 125 coarse greenish yellow sand. 

126 — 127 the same with a little yellow day. 

128 — 131 coarse dark grey sand. 

132 — the same red and grey. 

133 ~ 138 dark grey sand, with a little talc; the sand beccnning oouitt 

downwards. 

139 — 140 coarse dark grey sand. 

In due experiment the primary object wholly &iled, as no springs' of fresh 
water were reached, although it had always been a comlaonly received opinion* 
that the soil of Bengal was particulariy moist, and full of springs. Tlie reverse* 
however, at least so far as refers to the vicinity of Calcutta, proved to be tiie 
fact. The first appearance of any damp was at the depth of 71 Iset* in a red- 
dish clay with a quarter of sand, and bdow 76 feet, was as dry as near tiie 
surface, and on this occasion the borer most have descended nearly to the level 
of the sea. Through the whole of these strata, to the depth of 140 fb^ no 
traces of volcanic matter were discovered, which rei^ton it {MrolNhle, that the- 
shedu of earthquakes about Calcutta, if they have any aynqpaHiy vridi valear 
noes, do not origiiutte from any vmy proximate came* which baboomSolKwa^ 
hy the geaptn! feebleness of the ahodm. TVMon^ldlli* wychttnaiidto 



ntoovcx.] OF BENGAL. * 21 

oonttin vdcanie matter, lie at the distance of 260 miles from Calcutta. It may 
be infinnred from this deteription that Bengal proper ccmtains few minatiila of any 
bind, which could not be expected in so alluviiJ a soil; such as do occur will 
be mentioned, when treating of the particular districts in which they are found, 
and which may be in a great measure restricted to Birboom and Burdwan, 
especially die first, where iron ore has been found in considerable abundance. 

In die bract subject to annual inundation, insulated habitations, and fields con- 
siderably raised above the level of the country, exhibit the effects of patient 
industry. In the same tract during the season of rain, a scene presents iteelf 
interesting by its novelty : a navigation over fields submerged to a considerable 
depdi, while the ears of rice float on the surface. Stupendous dikes, not 
altogether preventing inundation, but checking its excesses. The peasants 
repairing to the markets, and even to the'fields, on embarkations, accompanied 
by their families and domestic animals, from an apprehension that the water 
might rise suddenly, and drown their children and catUe, in the absence of 
their boats. When the peasant’s habitation is passed, and the height of the flood 
observed nearly to the level of the artificial mound on which his dwelling stands, 
his precaution does not appear superfluous. 

The assemblage of peasants in their villages, their small farms, and the want 
of enclosures, bar all great improvements in husbandry ; in a country, however, 
so infested by tigers and gang robbers (dacoits), or river pirates, solitary 
dwdlings, and unattended cattle, would be insecure. Another obstacle to im- 
provement is the mixture of trades; the peasants indifferently quitting the 
plough to use the loom, and the loom to resume the plough. 

In 1793 rim estimated produce of the land, in maunds of 80 pounds each, was 
as fifllows ; but the value affixed appears too high. 

Hupea. 

160,000,000 maunds of rice, wheat, and barley, at 12 annas 


permaund ‘ . 112,500,000 

60.000. 000 millet, &c., at 8 annas 30,000,000 

90.000. 000 pulse, at 10 annas 56,260,000 

48.000. 000 maunds of seed reserved for the following season 28,380,000 

Oilseeds 12,000.000 

Sugar, tobacco, cotton, &c. 70,000,000 

Sundries 20,000,000 


Gross’prodttce of the land . 329,180,000 

Ja Bengal and Bahar only one-thiid ofthelaiid is estiiimtiadtehel^e^ 
lldsis tatMm oflaya and fiiBows. In Eofllaiid there lie fbw am of aeahle 



22 THE PBOVINOE f^ovcs* 

and meadow land for every inhabitant. In Bengal little more than one acre of 
tilled ground for every inhabitant. The natural seasons of rice are ascertained 
fiom the progress of the wild plant, which sows itself in the first months of the 
winter, and vegetates with the early moisture at the approach of the rains. 
During the period of the rains it ripens, and drops its seed with the commence^ 
ment of winter. But the common husbandry of Bengal sows the rice at the 
season when it would naturally vegetate, to gather a crop in the rains ; it also 
withholds seed until the second month of that season, and reaps the harvest the 
beginning of winter. The rice of this last crop is esteemed the best, not|being 
equally liable with the other to decay. The several seasons of cultivation ^ded 
to the influence of soil and climate, have mnltiplied the different species of rice 
to an endless diversity. 

Other com is more limited in its varieties and seasons. Of wheat and barley 
few sorts are distinguished ; they are all sown at the commencement of the cold 
season, and reaped in the spring. A great variety of different sorts of pulse 
(such as peas, chiches, pigeon peas, kidney beans, &c.) finds its place also in 
the occupations of husbandry, no season being without its appropriate species ; 
but most sorts are sown or reaped in winter. These constitute a valuable 
article in Bengal husbandry, because they thrive even on poor soils, and require 
but little culture. Millet and other grains are also of importance ; several sorts 
restricted to no particular season, and vegetating rapidly, are useful, because 
they occupy an interval after a tedious harvest, which does not permit the 
usual course of husbandry. Maize is less cultivated in Beng^ than in most 
countries where it is acclimated. It is the most general produce of poor soils 
in hilly countries, and is consequently very generally cultivated in the more 
western provinces, which are of an irregular surface. 

The universal and vast consumption of vegetable oils in Bengal is supplied 
by the extensive cultivation of mustard seed, linseed, sesamum, and palma 
christi, besides what is procured from the cocoa nut. The first occupy the cold 
season ; the sesamum ripens in the rains, or early after their dose. 

Among the most important productions of Bengal are tobacco, indigo, cottcm, 
the mulberry and poppy, most of which require land solely appropriated to the 
cultivation of each. It is a well known fact, that newly deared land fpr the first 
four or five years, yields the most productive crops of indigo. Ihe grand 
object of the farmer in Bengal is to Imve an equable supply of water; and the 
rains in general are so copious, that if the water were coi^fined on the 
where it fell, the supply would never ftil, and it nevw would be too great, it 
the power of vegetation would always surpaM the rise of the water. But, fie. 
even in Bengal, there are inequalities of tm&ce, the tower parte ere okm 



OF BENGAL 


H08BAy]>B7,] 


S3 


dnwned by suddoi rainst and the upper frequently tcorched by too long inter* 
Tab of frur weather. The natires have in conBequeoce an opinion, which appears, 
well founded, that there cannot be too ooany small embankments, passing in 
all directions tiurough the country. 

Tim plough in this province is drawn by a single yoke of oxen, guided by the 
|[donghnran himself; and two or three yoke of oxen assigned to each plou|^ 
relieve each other imtil the task is completed. Several ploughs in succession 
deepen the furrows, or rather scratch the surface, for the implement which is 
used throughout India, wants a contrivance for turning up the earth, and the 
share has neither width nor depth sufficient to stir a new soil. A second 
ploughing crosses the first, and a third is sometimes given diagonally to the 
preceding. These, frequently repeated, and followed by the branch of a tiree, 
^r some other substitute for a l^rrow, pulverize the soU, and prepare it for 
the reception of seed. The field must be watched seveihl days to defend it 
from the depredations of numerous flocks of birds ; and it is necessary still, 
longer to prolong the defence of the field in those districts which are much 
infested by wild boars, elephants, bufialoes, and deer. For this purpose a 
bamboo stage is erected, and a watchman stationed on it to scare wild animals, 
should any approach. In all districts maize, and some sorts of millet, whm 
neariy arrived at maturity, generally need defence from the depredations of 
birds by day, and of large bats by night. 

The sickle, for the scythe is unknown, reaps every harvest. With this the 
peasant picks out the ripest plants, yet often suffers another field to stand long 
after the greatest part of the crop is arrived at maturity. The practice of 
stadking corn reserved for seed, is very unusual, the husk which covers rice 
preserves it so effectually. At the peasant’s convenience the cattle tread out 
tile com, or his staff threshes out the smaller seeds. The grain is winnowed by 
the wind, and is stored either in jars of unbaked earth, or in baskets made of 
large twigs. The practice of storing grain in subterraneous hoards, which is 
frequent in Bmuues and the western provinces, and also in the south of India, u 
not adapted to the damp climate and moist soil of ]I^Dgal, where grain is hoarded 
above ground, in round huts, the floor of which is raised a foot or two above 
tlesurfece. 

In the management of forced rice by irrigation, dams retiun the water on 
SXtenalve pUdns, at preserve it m lakes, to water lower land as occamdn nmy 
require. Rraervoirs, ponds, water courses, and dikes, are more generally in a 
progress of decay than tff improvement. Tht rotation of crops, which eni^posses 
m maek tha attention of enlightened cultiv^rs in Europe, k not undentimd in 



24 the province [avmiisftT. 

India, and a course of husbandry, extending beyond a year, was never dreamed 
of by a Bengal fanner. Neither is he, in the succession witlun the year, guided 
by any choice of an article, adapted to restore the fertility of land impoveridied 
by a former crop. The Indian cultivator allows his field a lay, but never a ftUow. 

In Bengal many tanks have been dug, which are frequently useful in sup* 
plying the inhabitants with water, not only for domestic purposes, but also for 
irrigation. But ostentation and the love of fiune, have in some parts increased 
the number and size of these excavations to a destructive extent, no one baing 
interested in their repair, which is not productive of any reputation. Al]||OBt 
every tank, therefore, is soon choked up with aquatic plants, and becomes a 
source of vile smells, bad water, and distempers; and there being many vxom 
tanks than are requisite, much land is thereby lost to agriculture. In some parts 
of the province the evil has reached to such a pit^, that tlm d^^ging of a new 
tank ought to be prohibited, unless the necessity for its construction be pre- 
viously established, and security ought to be taken for its being kept in proper 
repair, and free from noxious weeds. At present the cndy measure tak en by 
the natives for this purpose in large tanks, is to place a quantity of mercury at 
the bottom of the tank on its first formation ; and althou^^ numberless examples 
of the inefficacy of this absurd expedient daily occur, the excavators continue 
perfectly credulous. 

The cattle kept for labour and subsistence are mostly pastured on small com- 
mons, or other pasturage, intermixed with arable lands, or they are fed at 
home on cut grass. The cattle for breeding and for the dairy, are grazed in 
numerous herds, in the forests or on the downs. The dung, in place of being 
applied to the fields, is carefully collected for fuel. The Bengal former restricts 
the use of manure to sugar cane, mulberry, tobacco, poppy, and some other 
articles. Of the man^ement of manure little occurs worBiy (d* notice, except 
to mention, that oil cake is sometimes used as a manure for sugar cane. 

The simple tools which the native employs in every art are so coarse, and 
apparently so inadequate to their purpose, that it creates surprise how be can 
effect his undertaking; but the long continuance of feeble efforts accooqfdisbes 
what, compared with the means, appears impracticable. The ]^ougb is among 
die instruments that stand most in need of improvemmtt. The readiness with 
which the Indian can turn from his usual occupation to another forancfo the 
same art, or to a new profession, is characteristic of his country ; and the tueoesa 
of his earliest efforts, in any employment new to him, is daily remarked vritit 
surpi^. The want of capital in manufoctures or agricultoie, pteveilti the 
subdivision of labour. Every manufocturer, and every grtift, working on hlk 



OF BENOAt. 95 

«im AMomit, conAucts the whole process of his art, from the formation of his 
tods, to the sale of his production. Every labourer and artisan, who has fre* 
ipimHy occasion to recur to the labours of the field, becomes a husbandman. 

A cdtivator in Bengal who employs servanU, employs one for each plough, 
and pa;jn> him monthly wages, which on an average do not exceed one rupee per 
m<mi&, and in a very cheap district, the wages are so low as half a rupee; but 
the taiA on the medium of one third of an acre per day is completed by noon. 
The cattle are then left to the herdsman's care, and the ploughman follows other 
occupations during the remsdnder of the day. Gener^y, he cultivates some 
land on his own account, and this he commonly rents from his employer for a 
payment m kind. If the herd be sufficiently numerous to occupy one person, 
a servant is entertained, and receives in food, money, and clothing to the value of 
one rupee and a half per mensem. The plough itself costs less than a rupee. 
The cattle employed in husbandry are of the smallest kind, the cost on an 
average being not more than five rupees each. The price of labour may be com- 
puted from the usual hire of a plough with its yoke of oxen, which may be 
stated on the medium to be about 4</. per day. The cleaning of the rice is 
executed with a wooden pestle and mortar, the allowance of husking it being 
nearly uniform; the person performing this contracting to deliver back fths 
of the weight in clean rice, the surplus, with the chaff or bran, paying for the 
labour. Five quarters of rice per acre are reckoned a large produce, and a 
return of 15 for one on the seed. 

Slavery, in its severest sense, is not knovm in Bengal. Throughout some 
districts the labour of the husbandman is executed chiefly by bond servants. 
In certain other districts the ploughmen are mostly slaves of the peasants, for 
whom they labour, but are treated by their masters more like hereditary ser- 
vants, or mancipated hinds, than like purchased slaves. Although the fact must 
be admitted, that slaves may be found in Bengal, among the labourers in hus- 
bandry, yet in most parts none but free men are occupied in the business of 
agriculture. 

As a middle course of husbandry two yearly harvests may be assumed from 
«adi fodd ; one of white corn, and another of pulse, oil seed, or millet. The 
price of com in Bengal fluctuates much more than in Europe, and has a c<m- 
ridindde iuAuencc on the value of most other articles, though it cannot regulate 
rile price of all. When the crops of cotn happen to be abundant, it is not mdy 
but vmnts a ready marl^; and as the payment of the rent Is leg^ated 
hy rim sea«m cHT rim harvest* the cultivator rimreby sustaiiia ccwriileiihle 

tn SNmsiL irhete riie roveoiii of rite Hale hea had rim ftatn of irilb rim 

VOIm x« t 



THE PROVINCE [svtBAirtmT. 

management of the public finances has a moie immediate influence on agrictAtuie, 
than my other branch of the administration. It may be presumed, homrnr* 
the lands in Bengal are better cultivated, and rendered mcMre productive, •• 
notwithstanding the increased export of grain (from 30 to 45,000 tons aanuaUly^ 
and the large tracts of country required for the growth of sugar, indigo, ai»d 
other articles exported by sea, the price of rice, and of every other kind of food 
used by the natives, so far from being enhanced, was considerably low^ on the 
average of the ten years, from 1790 to 1800, than during any precedin| perk>4 
since the acquisition of the province ; nor has Bengal suffered a &min|.of any 
severity since the year 1770, which is more than can be said oi any othm part 
of India. 

The orchard in this province is what chiefly contributes to attach the peasant 
to his native soil, although the seasons in Bengal are not favourable for the pro> 
Auction of many kinds of fruit, ovring to the rains occupying the greater part of 
the summer, and the heat of t e spring is not sufficient to bring them to ma- 
turity before the rainy season commences. But he feels a superstitious venera- 
tion for rile trees planted by his ancestors, and derives comfort and profit from 
their fruit. Orchards of mangoe trees diversify the plain in every part of Bengal, 
and the palmira abounds in Bahar. The cocoa nut thrives in those {mrts of 
Bengal which are not remote from tropic, and the date tree grows everywhere, 
but especially in Bahar. Plantations of areca are common in the central ]^urts 
of Bengal ; the bassia thrives even on the poorest soils, and abounds in the hilly 
districts. Its inflated corols are excellent and nutritious, and yields by dis- 
tillation, an intoxicating spirit. The oil expressed from its seeds is, in moun- 
tainous districts, a common substitute for butter. Clumps of bamboos abound, 
and flourish as long as they are not too abruptly tldnned,. This plant k 
remarkable for its growth. Its greatest height is comideted in a sii^ year; 
and during the second, its wood acquires all the hardness and diasridty adiich 
render it so useful. They supply the peasant with materials for buildi^, and 
may also yield him profit, as it is probable a single acre df thriving bambooe 
produces more wood than ten of any other tree. 

Potatoes have been introduced into Bengal, and i^pamiriy with the moiri 
beneficial eflect. The quanrity procured by Europeans at almost emery season 
of the year, shews that they are not unsuited to the dimate, and the iiiiieli 
potatoe is little, if at all, inferior to that of England; bat the. eiop being laaa 
abundant, this article in the market is generally dearer than rice. The watery 
insipidity of tropical plants, is a drcumstaoce univenafly notioed by Bori^ieiha 
on their arrivd in the East Indies. Asparagus, cadifiower, and atoite 
plants, are raised, but they are cmnparativdy tastdaia. 



OF BENGAL 




27 


Hike of cattle (Kmsist i& the increase of stock, and the milk of bufihloes, 

whii^ are graaed at a very small expense, not exceeding half a rupee annually, 
and a <|uaTter of a rupee for cows. Cattle constitute a ocisiderable portion of 
the peasant’s wealth, and the profits of stock would be much greater, did ^e 
cottsmnption of animal food take off barren cows, and oxen which have passed 
thiw prime. TMs b not sufficient to render sheep an object of general atten. 
fion. Thek wool supplies the home consumption of blankets, but it is too 
coarse, and produces too low a price, to afford a large profit on tiiis species of 
stodc. 

The native Bengally horse, or tattoo, is a thin, ill-shaped, and every way con- 
temptible animal, and is never used in a team ; bullocks being selected for that 
purpose. The Bengaliy cart is nearly as bad as their plough, with ill made 
wheels and axletrees, which never being oiled, make a loud creaking noise; m>r 
C5an the native driver be prevailed on to alter what was the custom of his 
foiefathers. The elephants, camels, and oxen attached to the Company’s 
troops, are kept in excellent condition. The bufialoes are generally jet black, 
with long semicircular horns, which instead of standing erect, or bending for- 
ward, are laid backwards on the neck. When he attacks, he puts his snout 
between his forelegs, which enables him to point his horns forward. The Ben- 
gally sheep are naturally of a diminutive breed, thin and lank, and of a dark 
grey colour, but when fattened for the table the mutton equals that of Europe. 
Some of them have four horns, two on each side of the head. 

Pariah d<^ infest the streets of all the towns in Bengal, and the approach of 
evening is announced in the countrj" by the howling of jackals, which then quit 
their retreats in che jungles. Apes and monkies swarm in all the woods, and 
sometimes plunder the fruit shops of a villi^e. Being a sacred animal, the 
natives often voluntarily supply their wants, and seldom injure them. The 
Brahminy, or sacred bull of the Hindoos, also rambles about the country without 
intenuption ; he is caressed and pampered by the people ; to feed him being 
deemed a meritorious act of religion. The crow, kite, mayana, and sparrow, 
hop about the dwellings of the Bengalese, with a familiarity and sense of safety 
uatoown in Europe. Storks are seen in great numbers ; and, from thmr military 
etmt, are named adjutants by the European soldiers: toads, snakes, frogs, 
Jin^ j^d insects, which abound, are. their food. 

the al^^ce of fiidi affords a supply almost attainable by every class, and m 
^ Ganges, and its innuinerable branch, are many differmit kinds. Their plenty 
^,at ao^ seaswu is to great that they become tite food of the poorest aarivet, 
are said to contract diseases from a too Ubmnl imhilgeh^. The amallett 
llhid are aU eqimlly accepta^ h mnry, the standihg ffinh ia cveiy native 

' k 



S8 rmMormcn 

fiunily throughout Hindofttan; and in&ct, wiHi ihteir eoiii{i(dbaiiii^^i^ 
•whole art of cookery. The bickty, or codtup, is an exci^eht fiah, aa ia 
sable which is uncommonly rich. But the beat and Mghe^t 
not only in Bengal, but in the whole world, is the mangoe fidi, so named 
its appearing in the rivers during the mangoe season. They are a ^voorite 
at every European table, particularly during the two months wlum riiey ale ha 
roe. Mullet abound in all the rivers, and may be killed with naudl iho^ it 
they swim against the stream, with their heads partly out of the ivder. 
03 rster 8 are procured from the coast of Chittagong, not so large, but rally aa 
well flavoured as those of Europe. Alligators and porpussea abound in ^ the 
Bengal rivers, where there are also incredible quantities.of small turtle, which 
are howpver of a very bad quality, and only eatmi by some inferior casts of 
natives. 

The staple productions of Bengal for exportation are sugar, tobacco, silk, 
cotton, and indigo. 

Tobacco, it is probable, was unknown to India, as wdl as to Europe, before 
the discovery of America. It appears from a proclamation of the Emperor 
Jehan^re, mentioned by that prince in his own memoirs, that it was introduced 
by Europeans into India, either in his own reign (the beginning of the 17tli 
century) or during that of his fether Acber. The Hindoos have names for the 
plant in their own language ; but these names, not excepting the Sanscrit, seem 
to be corrupted from the European denominatimi of the plant, and not to be 
found in old compositions. The practice, however, of inhaling the soidke of 
hetnp leaves, and other intoxicating drugs, is anmmtt, and imr this reason the 
use of tobacco, when once introduced, soon became general throug^ut 
and the plant is now cultivated in every part of Hindostan. It requires as good 
a soil as opium, and the lam^ must be wdl maiuired, Althoiigii It be nek 
absolutely limited to the same districts, its cultnre piertils mostly In Itm* 
northern quarter, and is but thinly scattered in the southnm, mmSf 

charge for duties and agency, it may be fnocarad in Gidcnlta eutol e|g|l^ 
shillings per maund of 80 pounds. 

The sugar cane, the name of which was scarody known to the saeieiil inhilii* 
tants of Europe, grew luxuriantly throughout Bengal in tiie remotstt thnee. 
From India it was introduced into Arabia, and frcmi thence tiU» end 

Africa. From Benares to Rui^^imor, and from the borcfers of Assam toC!tfttttdc» 
there is scarcely a district in B<mgal, or its depmkdent provinoes, w hs w h stisi 
.sugar cane.dom not flourish. It thrivm most especnsUy hi the elf 

Be^res, Bshar, Kui^ipoor, Birboom, Bordwan, and ]lBdiii|ioe9^ inttct swil l i ^ 
cultivated tn dl; and there seems to be no other bonadsto thh] 



vsoMWTiokt.] OF BENdiUk 20 

^ «Q 9 tir itt Befifal, tbaa die limits of die Uemand, and the consequeat 
giewdt fot hmne consumptiooi, mid for inltmd trade is vast, 
m4 it dniy needs eneomcagemeut to equal the demand for Europe also, beiny 
dieaply produoed and frugally manufrctured. Raw sugar prepared in a mode 
pendiar to India, hut analogous to the process of making muscovado, may 
gwwstofly t>d purchased in the Calcutta market, under 18#. Bd. per maund of 80 
pounds weight. 

Cottcm is cultivated throughout Bengal, and has lately been raised mid ex- 
lifted by bm in increased quantities. Besides what is produced in the oiuntry, 
a large importadon takes place from the banks of die Jumna and the Deccan. 
It is thmq raised so much more cheaply than in Bengal, that it supports a suo- 
cemtul competition, notwithstanding the heavy expenses of distant transport by 
land and water. A fine sort of cotton is grown in the more eastern parts of 
Bmigal, for the most delicate manufactures, and a coarse kind is gathered in 
every part of the province, from plants thinly interspersed in fields of pulse. 
The names of cotton in most European languages, are obviously derived fixim 
the Arabic word kutn, pronounced cootn. Some sorts are indigenous to Ame- 
rica,, odiers are certainly nadves of India, which has at all times been the 
country most celebrated for cotton manufactures. 

Different sorts of cotton, very unequal in quality, are imported by land into 
Bengal ; the best is brought from Nagpoor in the Deccan, to Mirzapoor in die 
province of Benares, which town is the principal inland mart for cotdm. Its 
average price may be reckoned there at 2/. 5s. per cwt. The usual price at 
Nigpoor from a variety of averages is equivalent to 2id. per pound. Cotton is 
also imported from Jalooan, a town situated in the west of the Jumna, from 
Bfeties in due {»ovmce of Agra, and from other places. 

Bmepa wes andendy supplied with silk, through the medium of Indian com^ 
amros. Hie ancient language of India has names for the silk worm and manu- 
fredmed lilk» and among the numerous tribes of Hindoos, derived from the 
arixtoredf the original races, there were two classes, whose appropriate occu-. 
Pi^ona were the feeding of silk worms, and the spinning of silk. A peasant, 
kdto Ibedk Ids own silk worms, has fiiU employment for his family. The rearmg 
dT ilQt wofass is principally confined to a part of the district of Burdwan, and 
I vkodly the Bhagirati and Great Ganges, from the feric of these rivers, 
for- abeel eae hundred miles down their streams. The stadems where the Com- 
panj^ainytetment of silk is principally procured are CommercoUy, Jungeypoor,. 
liidfN, Rungpoor and Cossimbazaz. There is also a cem- 

of siUe obtained from wild ailk worms, and from those eWl 
bosses the nmiberry. Much silk of this kind 
toilt ludt ia imported from the countries sitosted on the notdi* 



30 THBPEOVINCE [ptoDucrioars, 

west border of Bengal, luid on the southern firontier of Eenares} much ts ex- 
ported, wrought ai|d unwrought, to the western pai^ of India, and some entm 
, into manufactures which are greatly in request in Europe. Four crops of mul- 
berry leaves are obtained from the same field in the course of each year: the 
best in December. 

The manufacture of indigo appears to have been known and practised in India 
from the earliest period. From this country, whence it derives its name, Europe 
was anciently supplied with it, until the produce of America engrossed the mar- 
ket. The spirited exertions of a few individuals have restored this conWeroe 
to Bengal, solely by the superior quality of their manufactures; for asi^ 
regards the culture, no material change has been made in the practice ^ the 
natives. The profit depends in a great measure on the quality of the article, 
and this is very unequal, since it varies according to the skill of the manufiicturer. 
In 1807-8 the total manufacture of indigo, on a correct estimate, was not less than 
120,000 factory maunds, of which probably 20,000 maunds were wasted or con- 
sumed in the country manufactures. The total quantity of indigo, British pro- 
perty, which was sold at the East India Company’s sales in 1810, amounted to 
the enormous weight of 5,253,489 pounds, and the sale price 1,942,328/. ; 
but the average cannot be reckoned at more than 1,200,000/. annually, almost the 
whole being exported from Bengal. In 1786 the quantity sold at the Company's 
sales amounted lo only 245,011 pounds. In 1814, the quantity entered from 
inland at the Calcutta custom-house amounted to 102,524 fitetory maunds, or 
about 8,200,000 pounds. 

The principal food of the great body of people who inhabit these provinces is 
rice, of which, from the fertility of the soil, ^e combined result of an ardent 
sun, and the saturating periodical rains, two crops are produced annually, bendes 
a variety of odier grain and pulse. The firsths^est is gathered in about the mid 
of August, the second, which is the greatest, in December, and the Imser artidea 
from February until the end of April, so that the land yield! its firuits almost the 
whole year. In general the supply is so abundant as to rmider Bengal the gra- 
nary of India, and it is at very distant intervals that a seasmi ts' not bount^* 
The natives from their indolent and improvident habits, never practned die pre- 
caution of keeping a stock of gran in rmierve, the loKiwledge i>t whidi tmder* 
a native government, would have exposed them to its extortkms. When a 
season of drought therefore intervenes, dm ground is pardbed up and a scarcity 
ensues, which is much aggravated to the poor the artifices of dm gram dealerat 
should a deficiency of rain continue through two succesdvc aeasons, the grii& hi 
store would be wholly unequal to the supply of a people whoae eubeisteiioe ii 
dniMt entirely vegetable.— {'CWc5m>*<r. K BacAundt, Em, Tammit, C.Qtmt, 
«*c. 8sc. 8sc,) 



OP BENGAL. 


31 


CHAPTER III. 

COUUE&CE, MANUFACTURES, STAPLE COMMODITIES, EXPORTS AND IMPORTS, 
INLAND NAVIGATION, LAND CARRIAGE, ROADS, HIGHVATS, COMMERCIAL 
RESIDENCIES, CUSTOM HOUSES, SALT AGENCIES, SEAPORTS, MARKETS, CUR- 
RENCT, WEIGHTS AND MEASURES, BANKERS AND MONET CHANGERS. 

The expoTtation of grain fiom the com districts, and the returns of salt, con> 
stitute the principal objects of internal trade. The importation of cotton firom 
the western provinces, and the exchange of tobacco for i^tel nut, together with 
some sugar, and a few articles of less note, complete the supply for internal con* 
sumpUon. Piece goods, silk, saltpetre, opium, sugar, and indigo, formerly 
passed almost wholly through the Company’s hands ; but now all sorts of traffic 
are much more open, and practised generally by every description of merdhant. 
Grain, the internal commerce of which is entirely conducted by the natives, 
supplies the consumption of the cities and the export trade of* Bengal; but, 
except in cities, the great mass of the population is everywhere subsisted from 
the produce of their immediate neighbourhood. 

Plain muslins, distinguished by their various names, according to the closeness 
or fineness of the texture, as well as flowered, striped or checkered muslins, 
dwominated from their patterns, are fabricated chiefly in the province of Dacca. 
The manufimture of the thinnest sort of that muslin is almost confined to that 
province ; other kinds more closely woven are fabricated on the western side of 
the Delta of the Ganges ; and a different sort, distinguished by a more rig^d 
texture, does not seem to be limited to any particular district. Coarse muslins, 
in the iffiape of turbans, handkerchiefs, &c. are made in almost every province, 
and the northern parts of Benares afford both plain and flowered muslins, which 
are not ill adapted for common uses, though incapable of sustaining any compe* 
tition with the beautiful and inimitable fabrics of Dacca. 

Under the general name of calicoes are included various sorfe of cloth, to which 
no Eng^sh names have been as yet affixed, and are for the most part known m 
Snre^ by the Indian denominations. Cossaes, or khasahs, are febricated in that 
part of Bengal which is situated north and east of the Ganges, betweaa the 
Mahan^ddy and Issamutty rivers, from blaulda to B^bazie; cloths umilarin 
are made near Tanda in the Nabob of Oude’s dominions. Baftaes ate 
piannfiMrh^^ in the amith^east comer of Bengal, near Luckipoor; and agsM (hi 
^ weitem frontier cl Benares, in the nei^bourhood of ABalmbad, and alao 
ta the pcovinoe of other diatricts. Sanaei are iheiidBC frilfrid 



32 the PROVmOB [ifAirvf4«virm 

of Orissa ; some are made in the district of Midnapoor ; some aie imported Irani 
the contiguous countries. A similar cloth, under the same denotninationi,: is 
wrought in the eastern parts of the province of Benares. CKitmes me the 
manufacture of Birboom; still coarser cloths, named gezis and gezinas, are 
woven in every district, but especially in the Doab of ^ Ganges and Jumim. 
Other sorts of cloth, the names of which are less familiar to the Er^ish reader, 
axe found in various districts. i 

Packthread is woven into sackcloth in many places, especially Ion the 
northern frontier of Bengal Proper, where it is emj^oyed as clothing W the 
mountaineers. A sort of canvass is made frtan cotton in the nei^dmurlpod of 
Chittagong, Patna, and some other places, and blankets are made everywhere 
for common use. A coarse cotton cloth, dyed red, with cheap materials, is 
very generally used, and^-ris chiefly manufactured in the centre of the Doab. 
Other sorts, dyed of various colours, but^especially blue, are prepared for inland 
commerce, and for exportation by sea. Both fine and coarse cdicoes receive a 
topical dying, with permanent and with fugitive colours, for common use, as 
well as for exportation. The province of Benares, the city of Patna, and the 
neighbourhood of Calcutta, are the principal seats of this manufacture of 
chintzes; which appears to be an original art in India, invented long since, 
and brought to a perfection not yet surpassed in Europe. Dimities of vmious 
kinds and damask linen, are made at Dacca, Patna, Taunda, and otbor places. 

The neighbourhood of Moorshedabad is the chief seat of the manufimtura 4 ^ 
wove silk and tafeta, both plain and flowered. Tissues, brtMnules, and oina* 
mented gauzes, are the manufacture of Benares. Plain gauzes, adapted to Ihe 
uses of the country, are woven in the western and southern comers o( Bei^rah 
The weaving of mixed goods made with silk and cotton, flourishes chiefly at 
Maulda, at Boglipoor, and at some towns in the district of Burdwan. A eon* 
siderable quantity of filature silk is exported to the wertiem parts of uad 

much is sold at Mirzapoor, and passes thence to flie Mahmtm nad 

central parts of Hiudostan. 

The risser, a wild silk, is procured in abundance fimn oountriea bosdeihtg on 
Bengal, and from districts included wittnn its limits. The rifle worm am 
there found in several sorts of tre^, which are comsioa in rim finaris of 
Assam, tmd the Deccan. The txmes mre large, but a^triagly eovarad sritiiriflicj 
and, in colour and lustre, this species riflt is flur infiKkif to of riui do»- 
mesricated insect. Its cheapness renders it asefid hi rim fidbilintiOB of OOUM 
^ks; toe; production of it may be increased by enoewfigaraMto; and a aflay 
tofge epumtity may be exported in the raw atrite at a ■wytdiHriif * '. a w i n ii M Mi ft 
migbt be used in Europe fwr rim pieparatioa of rifit iebdiPi tad ritortri 



OF BENGAL. 


EXPORTS.] 


33 


and cotton might form, as it now does in India, a beautiful and acceptable 
manu&cture. The manufacture of saltpetre scarcely passes the eastern limits of 
the Bahar province, under which head it, as also that of opium, will be found 
described. 

The export of hides from Bengal may be greatly increased. It is calculated 
that, including buffaloes, these provinces contain about 50,000,000 of cattle. 
Until recently the demand was so small, that the currier often neglected to take 
the hide off the cattle that died a natural death. About 1797, some Europeans 
engaged in the tanning of leather and manufactory of boots and shoes, which, 
although not so strong and waterproof as the British, answer so well, that they 
have greatly reduced the importation. The natives also have arrived at con- 
siderable perfection in the fabrication of saddles, harness, and military 
accoutrements, and other articles of leather. Buffaloes horns might also 
become an article of export, although so bulky and difficult of stowage. An 
excellent species of canvas is now manufactured in Calcutta, and sold much 
cheaper than that imported from Europe. Now that freight seems reduced to 
its minimum, com, various kinds of rice, barley, and wheat, admit of exporta- 
tion to Europe ; as also rum, little inferior to that produced in Jamaica, together 
with liquorice and ginger, which are produced in Bengal, and might be exported 
to any extent. 

It is extremely probable that annotto, madder, coffee, cocoa, cochineal, and 
even tea, would thrive in British India, which now comprehends every variety 
of climate. The plant from the seeds of which annotto is prepared, by separat- 
ing the colouring matter which adheres to them, is already cultivated in Bengal, 
and coffee plants have thriven in botanical and private gardens. Madder is a 
native of the mountainous regions which border on Bengal, and this province 
possesses besides, many articles which might be brought into notice by a more 
extended commerce. Various drugs used in dying are exported to England, 
such as galls, turmeric, safflower, or carthamus; also myrobalans, which are 
here used in preference to galls. Roots of morinda, which dye a permanent 
colour on cotton, and blossoms of the nyctanthes, which give a permanent 
colour to silk. 

Gum Arabic, and many other sorts of gums and resins for manufactures, are 
the produce of trees that grow spontaneously in Bengal, besides a multitude of 
medicmal drugs and gums, which abound in India and the adjacent countri^. 
Vegetable oils, particularly linseed, might be supplied from these provinces, 
which are also adapted for the cultivation of flax. Tincal, brought from the 
high table land of Tibet, is among the imports to Bengal ; and vegetable and 
mineral alkalies may hereafter become a considerable article of commerce. The 

VOL. I. r 



34 THE PROVINCE [expobts. 

alkali is found in abundance, and the woods of Bengal are capable of 
furnishing potash in large quantities. The preparation of sal ammoniac might 
be advantageously connected witli the manufacture of saltpetre. 

Be^des the articles above enumerated, which have a reference principally to 
Bengal, India furnishes aloes, assafeetida, benzoin, camphor, cardamoms, 
cassia lignea, and cassia buds, arrangoes, cowries, China root, cinnabar, cloves, 
cinnamon, nutmegs, mace, elephants’ teeth, gums of various sorts, mother of 
pearl, pepper (quicksilver and rhubarb from China), sago, scammony, senna, 
and saffron, and might supply anise, coriander, cumin seeds, and many other 
objects which would occupy too much room to enumerate. 

Of hemp and flax, with all their varieties, and also of the different substitutes 
for these articles, Bengal produces greater abundance than any other country. 
The true hemp is found in many places, but is little used by the natives, except 
for the seed oil as a medicine, and for an intoxicating ingredient, which is often 
mixed with the tobacco of the Hooka. 

Formerly the exports to Europe, and to the United States of America, con- 
stituted the most considerable portion of Bengal commerce. The principal 
articles of export to Madras and the coast of Coromandel, are grain, pulse, 
sugar, saltpetre, molasses, ginger, long pepper, clarified butter, oil, silk, 
wrought and unwrought, muslins, spirits, and provisions. 

After the Coromandel trade, the next in importance is that of the eastward 
and China, to which quarter the exports, besides opium, consist of grain, salt- 
petre, gunpowder, iron, fire arms, cotton, silk, and cotton piece goods. The 
trade to Bombay is next, consisting chiefly of grain, sugar, raw silk, some 
silk and cotton piece goods, saltpetre, ginger, long pepper, sacking, and 
hempen ropes. 

To the Gulfs of Arabia and Persia Bengal sends grain, sugar, silk, and cotton 
piece goods. To Ava and the Birman empire, silk and cotton goods, fire arms, 
iron, nails, naval and military stores, and a variety of European goods. 

Bengal imports from Europe metals of all sorts, wrought and unwrought, 
woollens of various kinds, naval and military stores, gold and silver coin and 
bullion, and almost every article of Europe, for the European part of the 
inhabitants. 

The returns from Madras and the 9 past of Coromandel, consist of salt, red- 
wood, some fine long cloth, izarees and chintzes. The balance due to Bengal 
is either settled by government bills, or remitted in specie. From the eastern 
islands, and the Malay coast, Bengal receives pepper, tin, wax, dammer, 
brimstone, gold dust, specie, betel nut, spices, benzoin, &c. From China, 
tutenague, sugar-candy, tea, allum, dammer, porcelain, lacquered ware, and a 



IMPORTS.] OF BENGAL. 35 

variety of manufactured goods. From Manilla, indigo of a very fine quality, 
sugar, and sapan-wood, and specie. 

From the Malabar coast are imported sandal-wood, coir rope, pepper, some 
cardamoms; and formerly cargoes of cotton-wool from Surat; the balance is 
generally sunk in the annual supplies with which Bengal furnishes Bombay. 
From Bombay are brought teak timber, elephants’ teeth, lac, kc. 

Owing to its admirable facility of transportation by water, the internal com- 
merce of Bengal is very great ; but as may be supposed in a country so produc- 
tive and thickly populated, by far the most important interchange is in the 
article of rice. Of this grain in Bengal there is annually a great variation of 
price, the difference between the months of July and December, respectively, 
being very remarkable, and a source of great profit to opulent speculators, but 
to the indigent classes of cultivators of infinite dt age. These last obtain rice 
for seed, and for the consumption of their families, either by a ruinous mortgage 
of the ensuing crop, or at an exorbitant rate of interest in the month of July, a 
period when the price is almost uniformly at the highest. In January, when 
the principal harvest is gathered, they are under the immediate necessity of 
selling the produce of their fields, to discharge the instalments then due, as they 
have neither means to convey the grain to a distant market, nor resources to 
enable them to postpone its sale until a more favourable period. They are thus 
compelled at once to glut a confined market, with the whole produce of their 
village, where the only purchasers are the rich s|>eculators, who are con- 
sequently enabled to fix the prices at their own discretion. The evil is less felt 
in the vicinity of great towns or navigable rivers, nor does the Calcutta price 
essentially vary at those periods, which in the interior of the province are 
the cheapest and dearest periods of the year. An investigation made in 1815 
tended to prove that the 10 years, from 1793 to 1803, were collectively cheaper 
than the ten years preceding and following, and that the price of rice and other 
articles has not experienced any permanent augmentation since the year 1701. 
Since 1793 the average prices of ploughing cattle have experienced a rise of 75 
per cent, but the hire of coolies, or day labourers, in the country has not altered, 
being still 4i and 5 pons of cowries per day. The rise of wages paid to labourers 
by natives who cultivate their own lands, has been on the other hand consider- 
able. In 1793 an able servant received about four rupees per annum, with his 
diet and clothing; whereas in 1814, they received six and eight rupees yearly, 
and in some situations even more. Near Calcutta, in harvest time, the usual 
price of 640 seers of paddy, or rice, in the husk, is five rupees five annas. 

The internal navigation employs a great many vessels, and it is irderesting to 
note, at a mart of great resort, the various constructions of boats assembled 

F 2 



36 the province [inland careiage. 

there from different districts, each adapted to the nature of the rivers they 
generally traverse : the flat clinker-built vessels of the western districts, would 
be ill adapted to the wide and stormy navigation of the lower Ganges. The 
unwieldy bulk of the lofty boats used on the Ganges from Patna to Calcutta, 
would not suit the rapid and shallow rivers of the western districts, nor the 
narrow creeks which the vessels pass in the eastern navigation ; and the low 
but deep boats of these districts, are not adapted to the shoals of the western 
rivers. In one navigation, wherein the vessels descend with the stream and 
return with the track rope, their construction consults neither aptitude for the 
sail nor for the oar. In the other, wherein boats, during the progress of the 
same voyage, are assisted by the stream of one creek, and opposed by the 
current of the next, as in the Sunderbunds, and under banks impracticable for 
the track rope, their principal dependance is on the oar, for a winding ce urse in 
narrow passages permits no reliance on the sail. Often grounding in the shallows, 
■\ essels would be unsafe built with keels, and all Bengalese constructions want 
this addition so necessary for sailing. 

These useful vessels are also very cheaply found. A circular board tied to 
a bamboo, forms the oar ; a wooden triangular frame, loaded with some weighty 
substance, is the anchor ; a few bamboos lashed together supply the mast ; a 
cane of the same species serves as a yard for the sail, which is made of coarse 
sackcloth ; some from the twine made of the stem of the rushy crotularia, or of 
the hemp hibiscus. The trees of the country afford resins to pay the vessels, 
and a platform of mats thatched wdth straw supplies the stead of a deck, to 
shelter the merchandize. The vessels are navigated with equal frugality ; the 
Ijoatmen receive little more than their food, which is most commonly furnished 
in grain, together with an inconsiderable allowance in money, for the purchase 
of salt, and for the supply of other petty wants. Forty years a^, in Major 
Rennell’s valuable work, the whole number of boatmen employed on the rivers 
of Bengal and Bahar, was estimated at only 30,000; but probably some 
mistake must have occurred in the calculation, as they are certainly at present 
much nearer ten times that number. Besides this trade, most of them follow 
the petty occupations of agriculture, or fill up the interval of their employ- 
ments as fishermen, and occasionally augment, either voluntarily or by com- 
pulsion, the bands of dacoits, or river pirates. 

In the land carriage, the owners of the cattle are also the principal traffickers, 
oftener purchasing at one market to sell at another, than letting their cattle to 
resident merchants. They transport their merchandise on oxen trmned to 
burthen, sometimes, but not frequently, on horses of the'tattoo breed, and stiU 
more rarely on buffaloes. The latter, although more domte, are move idiiggiidi 



EESIDENCIES.] OF BENGAL. 37 

and slower travellers than ^e ox, and do not bear a much greater burthen, 
although much larger in size. They are also too fond of lying down in the 
water, which they have so often occasion to wade through, with their loads. 

The highways throughout Bengal are not generally in a condition for distant 
joumies on wheel carriages ; but at a former and remote period the communica- 
tion was better assisted. A magnificent road from the banks of the Goggra, or 
Dewa river, to the Brahmaputra, formed a safe and c(mvenient communication 
at all seasons, in a length of 400 miles, through countries subject to annual 
inundation. Of the causeways and avenues which formed the road, some re- 
mains may yet be traced. At present the beaten pathway throughout Bengal 
directs the traveller, but no artificial road nor any accommodation, and in the 
rainy season his progress by land is altogether barred. The total decay of the 
public roads must be ascribed to the want of substantial and durable materials 
for their construction. The Bengal government have completed a road from 
Calcutta to Benares, which was principally done with the view of expediting 
military movements, but has at the same time proved a very general 
convenience. 

The stations of the commercial residents, for the purchasing of the Company’s 
investments, are the following : 

Bauliah, Dacca, Malda, 

Benares, Etaweh and Calpee, Patna, 

Goruckpoor . Golaghore, ) Radanagore, 

Mow, Hurripaul, 3 Rungpoor, 

Azimgur, Jungeypoor, Santipoor, and 

Commercolly and Hurrial, Keerpoy and Midnapoor, Soonamooky. 
Cossimbazar, Luckipore and Chittagong, 

The commercial agents have in general an assistant in the civil service, and 
an establishment of native officers. The whole are subordinate to the Board of 
Trade, consisting of two members, besides a nominal president, a member of 
the Supreme Council. 

The charges defrayed by the East India Company for the management of their 
trade in Bengal, at the presidency and subordinate stations, so far as the same 
•can be distinguished from the civil and other charges respectively, in the 
year 1813, current rupees, 1,426,559. 

Custom Houses for the collection of the duties on the trade of the interior are 
established at 

Agra, Benares, Dacca, Mirzapoor, 

Allahabad, Calcutta, ’ Furruckabad, Moorshedabad, and 
Balasore, Oaunpoor, Ghazipoor, Patna. 

Bwreily, Chittagong, Hooghlyi 



38 the province [mahkets 

Salt agencies, for the manufacture of that article on government account, arc 
established at 

Buhvah and Chittagong, Hidjeliee, and 

Cuttack, Tumlook. 

24 Pergunnahs and Roymungul, 

As yet Bengal may be said to have but one port of export, which is Calcutta ; 
although square rigged vessels of small size occasionally load rice in some of the 
Sunderbund rivers, and vessels of large dimensions are built at, and sail from the 
town of Islamabad, the capital of Chittagong. But the aggregate is insignifir 
cant compared with the commerce of the great metropolis, under which head! 
some further details wall be found. 

The original manner in which all internal commerce seems to have been 
conducted in Bengal, was at hauts or open markets, and this practice is still 
very prevalent. These hauts are held on certain days only, and are resorted to 
by petty venders and traders, who wish to buy or sell, and dispose of their 
commodities by retail. They are usually established in open plains, where a 
flag is erected, to the vicinity of which, the farmer brings the prbduce of his 
lands, the mechanic that of his work shop, and the fisherman of his net. To 
carry on these operations a space of ground is reserved, divided by narrow 
paths into several plots like the parterres of an old garden, each plot being 
occupied by two or three venders, and the whole transacted in the open air. 
Duties were formerly levied at each market by the proprietor of the land, who 
w'as consequently interested in preserving peace, and seeing justice done, yet a 
great majority exercised such rapacity, that their places of sale were deserted. 
Great advantage resulted from the abolition of these imposts, the markets being 
now free and placed under the protection of the nearest police officer ; but he is 
unable to attend every where, and as these hauts are at present constituted, 
there is certainly no efficient legal superintendence, either tQ settle disputes, 
confiscate fraudulent weights and measures, or to prevent extortions, both by 
the zemindars, and the understrappers of the police. On the festivab of 
Hindoo Gods, and of persons reputed saints by the Mahommedans, great num- 
bers of persons assemble at spots esteemed peculiarly sacred, and traders em- 
brace these opportunities of finding a market for their goods, in supplying the 
wants of the multitude. 

In Bengal, a bazar is a daily market where things in common use are regularly 
sold, and it is not unusual to have them in a haut, where a number of petty 
venders, besides the established shop-keepers frequent them. In gunges, or 
bunders, the chief commodities sold are gram and Ae necessaries of life, apd 
they often include ba^ and hauts, where the articles are sold by retail, and 
m grea^variety. It is a common termination of the names Of towiai in 



OF BENGAL. 


CCBEENCY.] 


39 


Bengal, and some of the adjacent provinces, and generally restricted to places 
where there is water carriage ; hut the name is frequently much misapplied, 
and many places are called gunge or bunder, where no merchant resides, and 
which have long lost their importance, if they had ever attained any, being 
rmable to supply the traveller with the common necessaries of life. Dokaii, 
a shop, and dokandar, a shop keeper, are Persian words, but until the arrival 
of the Mahommedans such establishments were probably very rare, or did not 
exist at all in Bengal, where a vender sitting in the open air surrounded by his 
goods was the original native manner of selling commodities, and in many parts 
of tlie country the number of shops is still remarkably small. 

Out of Calcutta the usual currency of Bengal is silver and cowries; gold 
seldom appears, and copper has never been introduced. Some years ago gold in 
the provincial tracts was abundant, but has since become very scarce, which is a 
fortunate result for the poor, who were greatly cheated in this article by the 
money changers. The most common silver currency is the new milled coinagt 
of Calcutta, of which however a considerable portion becomes speedily depre- 
ciated. In the country there is still a considerable number of the old unmilled 
coinage, which is subjected to a heavy batta or exchange ; but there all minor 
transactions, and even some of considerable magnitude, are settled by cowries, 
which have for some years been very cheap. 

Throughout the whole province there is no unifonnity of weights and measures, 
which not only vary in almost every market, but are different in the same market 
for different kinds of goods. There are even different weights for the same 
species ; rice being frequently sold by one weight, and bought by another. 
Neither are there any stamps on the weights, which are usually bits of stone, and 
admit of the most gross deception, as do also the scales used in weighing, 
which are so clumsily formed, that a dextrous person can easily impose on the 
unwary, to which he is generally sufficiently disposed by nature. These scales 
are never suspended but merely held in the hand, which besides limiting the 
weight to an inconsiderable amount, and of course occupying much time, per- 
mits the exercise of considerable slight of hand on the part of the vender. 
There is no denomination of weight greater than a maund, winch is subdivided 
into 40 seers. In Bengal a factory maund weighs 74 pounds, 10 ounces, and a 
factory seer 1 pound 13 ounces; but the Bengal bazar maund is ten per cent, 
heavier, and equals 82 pounds 2 ounces avoirdupois. 

liquids are also sold by the seer or maund, that is by measures supposed to 
contain these weights, which although not quite so bad as the grain measures, 
are still very defective. The grain measures are of basket work, in the form, of 
a haoaisphere, and are supposed when hooped to contain a certain weight of rice 
hi husk, against wfak^ there are imninierable ^^ections. In those vsxU of 



40 THE PROVINCE [bahkem. 

Bengal where articles of consumption are the cheapest, the following are nearijr 
the prices. Europeans of course pay much more. 


Rice, per maund, (80 lbs) 

^ rupee 

lave Stock. 

A milch cow . . 

5 rupees 

Barley ditto 

i 

A good bullock 

8 

Pease . . ditto 


A bull .... 

4 

Salt . . ditto 

3 

A milch buflaloe . 

20 

Mustard oil ditto 

5 

A ram .... 

i 

Ghee . . ditto 

10 

A common sheep 

i 1 
i 

Coarse sugar ditto 

4 

A he goat . . . 

Treacle . ditto 

H 

A milch goat 

1 

Milk . . ditto 


A kid or lamb 


During the Hindoo government, bankers. 

30 fowls ... 1 

10 ducks ... 1 

or dealers in money, were probably 


of s mall importance and their rank low ; but on the Mahommedan conquest, 
commerce seems to have increased, and, to facilitate its operations, bankers were 
introduced from the west of India. In the late Mahommedan government the 
revenue was remitted to Moorshedabad through these bankers. This branch of 
profit they have now lost in the provincial parts, and are chiefly employed by 
landholders in keeping their rents, paying the revenue, and in conveying the 
surplus to such as reside at a distance. They also occasionally advance to 
landlords who are in arrears for the land revenue. On this loan they take one 
per cent, per month, but exact much more under the name of profit, which is 
deducted from the principal at the time the loan is granted. 

Potdars, or money changers, are a very numerous class, but many of them 
having no shop sit in the open market with heaps of cowries placed before them. 
In the more rural quarters the money changer goes to market with a bag of 
cowries on his head, or if a rich man, with a loaded ox, which if. strong may 
carry to the value of 150 rupees. All the early part of the market he sells 
cowries for silver to the people who wish to purchase goods, and in the evening 
the various hucksters bring back their cowries and exchange them for silver. In 
the morning the money changer usually gives 5760 cowries for a rupee, and in 
the evening he gives a rupee for 5920 cowries, which is a profit of one thirty- 
sixth part on every good mint rupee, besides a fluctuating batta or exchange on 
all others. In Calcutta cowries are reckoned thus : — 

4 cowries .... 1 gunda. 

20 gundas .... 1 pon, 

32 pons 1 current rupee 2r. (2,560 cowriea.) 

It is also customary wUh the money changen to advance cowries to att aer» 



coificm<mO OF BENGAL. 41 

liK^ SKmtUljp and at the of the month when the wages 

bee^mEie doei llusy Tetoni the loan in silv^ ; h>r all this class* if trusted, an^ipate 
tiieh inc<mae. To Ihese improvident persmis the money changer gives only 70 
p<^ iMmmaior so that he realizes four seventy-fourths per montihi 

foir the use of tlm money, but occasionally he loses his prmcipal. Labourers 
among the nadves receive their daily pay in cowries, the daily markets, even of 
Emropeuis, are made with these shdls, they are distributed in alms, used on all 
occasions, and are in fact an excellent circulating medium, and proof of cheap- 
ness in whatever country they form the common currency. The natives of 
course become well acquainted w'ith their quality, and a Bengalese huckster 
refuses as stoutly a cowry with a hole in it, as in England a shopkeeper does a 
Birmingham shilling. — ( Colebrooke, F. Buchamn, Tennant, Ward, W. B. B<(yla/, 
Landtert, <^c. <§x’. %c.) 


COMMERCE. 


EXTERNAL COMMERCE of BENGAL for 1800—1801. 


18()0<^t801. 

IMPORTS TO BENGAL. 

EXPORTS FROM BENGAL. 

sirip$. 

McrchanUbtN 

Treasure. 

Tqtal. 

Ships. 

Merchaudize. 

Treasure. 

Total. 

No. 

Tom. 

Sicca Bps. 

Sicca Bps. 

Sicca Bps. 

m 


Sicca Bps. 

Sicca Bps. 

SkeaBps., 

LONhOH • - . - • 

so 

16,939 

4,098.360 

374,142 



jWiSR 


94 

8.487436 

Co|)enlift|eD » - - . 



446,006 

“^67^714 


3 


7143*6 

99 

714485 

Lbbou 

m 

37$ 

263,989 

705.33« 

969,319 

4 


8,057,936 

99 

3457,936 

Flattest £u 1091 - « 

m 

1,065 

no,T9j 

1,281.044 

1.991,839 

7 

6.070 

f^W6t 



2,772,781 

AmiiiiA .i • * . - 

17| 6,491! 899.9r7 

4,076,6671 4,976,8144 


H.150 

ssa»« 


69 

EMMS 

Myttoar 

S 

9 0 


$9 

31,664 



1308.175 


TioSafS 

Cotoimtidcl . . • • 

m 

43,413 

813391 

9.155 

822,646 

163 

30,467 

8380361 

*9 

a4M453 

SoiMitni 

c 

t.9M 

no,7ts 

7300 

207,712 

10 

3386 

348336 

99 

348388 

BaimiiAiiA « «• • 

fOB 

46339 

,<0*5.667 

16,166 

1361,822 

191 

41,821 

4.8S64S9 

99 

4,23^662 

Arabk 

TTTJ 

,.eso 

SIZirF' 

'“''866418 

610,493 

mig': 

■KWiTil 

406331 

99 

',406431 

^ ^ ^ . 

1 

aao 

,f 

99 

»» 

|HR 

375 

597,776 

99 

697i776 


36 

9,79* 

]»403,09r 

846^091 

8,848,188 


7374 

8,570,640 

99 


4 . ^ . 

6 

1360 

1.7S8499 

«or,«56 

2,139,96} 

HR 

1.050 

8,430308 

99 




€1 

6,460 

617.010 

91,755 

708,766 


5,800 

393^8* 

55 

393,78* 

Ama » * 

68 

19, 

4,096,976 

1,610,4*2 

64707,^ 




HHHI 

A39ii.«36 

Cl^ of tiOBO^ » 


S464 


- 1 

70,167 

■9 


10300 


'''' 10300 

Walts • • 

6 

UM» 

3.001 



1 


80311 


80414i 

MiWif^lsiaiids « • 


4,960 

rr336 

« “ 1 

77,836 

33 

4,960 

53,677 

BBhI 

53377 

iTitlOiuipiita * « * ^ 

46 

9366 

150,99* 


160.994 

34 

5,060 

84488 

«5 

mss 

fbVAL FoAiiair Asia • 

113 

^,t90 

^ ^947,969 

S3tM2^ 


93 

*0349 

6,480494 

. m. 

8380384 

rOTAL PatlAYsTlAll 
GOUjlAlfT’sTlIAlC* ^ 

m\ 

99.iM 


|gjg 

18.36Q4!M 

"543 

90.5fta 

1 hSmS &7 

■H 



VPI. f. Q 





























































42 


THE PROVINCE 


[COMMEECE. 


' EXTERNAL COMMERCE OF BENGAL for 1810—1811. 



IMPORTS TO BENGAL 

Ships. 

5IcrchandUc. 

Treasure. 

Total. 

No. 

Tons. 

Sicca R|)8. 

Sicca Rps, 

Sicca Rps. 


London - 


m 16,892 3,739,302 127.922 3,867,224 


Copenhagen „ 13,464 „ 13,464 

Lisbon and Rio Janeiro V 4 1,350 270,879 1,623,206 1,894,085 

Foreign Ebeope - - 4 1450 284,343 l,623,20<i 1,907,549 


EXPORTS FROM BENGAL. 


Shipk Merehatuliifie. Troumre. Totau 


America • 


17 6.067 258,289 




Malabar ----- 6 

Coromandel . • - « 330 

Sumatra 10 

Ce^'Ion 6 

Drxtzsii Asia - - • S62 

Gulfs of Fertia and Arabia 2o| 


301,565 

857,993 

177,977 

62,623 


1,490,158 600,377! 2.090,535 


Penang and Eastward • 29 


Fottitow Aha - * • 85 


Mauritius ----- 19 

I 

IC9pe of Good Hope - 1 

New South Wales • • C 

MiMives Islands • - fi! 

yirious places • - « 5] 



540,490 399,520 940^)10 

603,011 2,366,931 2,969,942 

1,329,894 1,960,753 3^290.647 
1,759,464 4,824,492 6,583,956 


184,129 


184,129 


4,416,988 9,551,696 IS, 968i684| 64 


109,488 

H 

46,562 

139,747 


fi9S\ 572,807 
4,240 
276489 
94457 


airbus places - - . 51 14.900| 295,797 j 66,409| 362,f06| lOa| 3l,73af 947423 

foTAi FoRBtot» Asia * 136 42,933| 4,712,785 I 94l5,l05|l4430,89o{ 164] 5f,188{ 15,113,147 


toTAi. PaivATt lasna 1 5361 125, 
Co«iPAtfY*$taADi . I j 



10,18341 



547 lt749fl 34407483 



No. Tons. Sicca Bps. ISiccaRps. 


«< ; ^ 

S4 14,488 7,087,786 „ 7,087,7^ 



53,857 3,707,585 I „ 3,707,585 



8,198,808 

1,870,541 

3,848,198 

7,371,895 

90,181 


144834*4 



























































































COMMERCE.] 


OF BENGAL. 


EXTERNAL COMMERCE OF BENGAL for 1815-1816. 



JrORBXOM EuftOPB 


AxEnicA 


Maltbar and Canara 
Coromandel • • < 
Sumatra * • • < 


IMPORTS TO BENGAL. 


Siiipt. |Merchandbe.| Treasure.} Tot At. 


EXPORTS FROM BENGAL. 



Sicca Rps. Sicca Rpa. 


5«! 30,717 5,757,886 1,142,596 6,895,482 



215 38,396 5,164,081 



31,964 

2.720.922 

1,678,122 

277,010 

214,400 


4,930,418 


Penang and Eastward 


FoaEiOK Asxa - 


Mauritius • . . • • 
Cape of Good Hope 
Maldives IiJes • • • 
New South Wales . . 

Vttiout places - • • 


TotAt Potttieii Asia 175 44.378 5,068.973 6,357,003 1 1,425, 976H 190 


3.606,021 
63,110 
2,172,720 
9,037,912 
469,038 
4.258] 1.167,464 
34,968 


1,841,998 
297,580 
99,101 
1,U7| 222412 


I9,78q 2,460,991 


19,012,224 


ToTAtPRivATEVaAB* 488 131,411 13,245.798 
CoUfAftY^S TaAPB • 







Sf,695,544y 409 13-1,549 49,972466 


Sicca Ups. 


16,444,208 


4,930,418 


6411 4,421,435 „ 4,421,435 


3,146461 

1,427,372 

469.()00 

120,448 


4,500 5,168.581 


2.183,970 

9 , 037,912 

469.038 

1,167.46-1 


100 32425 16,551,233 I 11,250116.562,483 


2.460,993 


Export of Cotton from Calcutta and Bombay, in the course of 1818. 

From From Total Bale, of Value in 

To Calcutta. Bombay. SOOibc. weight. Sicca Rupees. 

England . . . 178,020 12S,512 306,532 24,532,360 

The Contineat .- 40,642 40,109 80,751 6,460,080 

Amartca . . 41,210 42,289 84,199 6,735,930 

Chiu . . . 76,967 112,173 189,173 15,133^40 


336^43 323,307 660,653 5M5S,M0 



















































































44 


THE PROVINCE 


CHAPTER IV. 

POPULATION OF THE PROVINCE, DISTRICTS AND TOWNS. 

The inhabitants of Bengal are numerous in proportion to the tillage and 
manufactures that employ their industry, and under the British government the 
population has certainly undergone a progressive increase, which still 'contiiuas, 
and surpasses that of England in the best cultivated districts, the situatkih of 
all classes being highly favourable to the propagation of the species. It has, 
however, occasionsdly met with checks, as happened in 1770, when it issuppojsed 
that nearly one fifth of the inhabitants perished by famine. In 1784, the same 
calamity prevailed, but in a much less degree ; in 1787, many lives were lost in 
the eastern provinces by inundation, and in 1788 by a partial scarcity; but since 
the period last mentioned, famine and even scarcity have been wholly unknovm. 

Various estimates of the total population have been made at different times ; 
but until 1801, during the administration of the Marquis Wellesley, no approach 
to actual investigation was ever attempted. An undertaking of this description 
requires to be conducted with peculiar delicacy, the natives in general being 
averse to even the appearance of innovation, and to any new arrangement which 
tends to bring them more immediately uMer the observation of the mi^istrate, 
or to impose on them either additional duties or expense. Neither can accurate 
returns be expected from the zemindars who are jealous of the view's and inten* 
tions of the government. Different indirect expedients have in consequence 
been resorted to ; such as, 1st a computation from the quantity of salt consumed, 
which being a monopoly can be ascertained with tolerable precision. 

2d. The number of ploughs required to cultivate the extent of land occupied, 
allowing one for each 15 Calcutta begahs, or five acres, and five persons for each 
plough, adding afterwards the other classes of society. 

3d. A list called Khana Shumari, containing a statemmit of - the numlMir of 
houses, families, tradesmen, castes, pbughs, looms, tanks, and other ptthlb uF^^ 
civil and religious, within the jurisdiction of the magisfecate, whkh k uinMiPy , 
kept under all native governments, but which is frequently a dowhtfel i' , 

4th. From an actual enumeration of bouses, as efilseted ha l814*l»yjWh& Ri yl e y ,' 
then judge and magistrate of Burdwan, as wilt be fi»iilid detmlhd #0!^ 
desenpdon of that district. In prosecution of this object 9^ towai and 
were selected Iw examination, situated in Burdwan, Hooddy, Midaimoer, Bir- 
boom, and the lungle Mthals. The retums when leeeived W 



i^»f7LiLtiOK.] OP BBN6AL. 45 

ilBk6d,aiid the places selected differed in size, opulence, and other circum- 
stances. Some were market towns, or possessed established manufactures ; some 
pfbcipally iidmbited by Hindoos, others by Mahommedans ; some were heavily 
>*J8»8ed, while othem were rent free ; the average therefore may safely be con- 
::idered as apfdi<»ble to the Bengal province generally. The result of this in- 
vestigidion gave 82,28d females, to 81,149 males. The proportion of persons 
allowed to a house was 5-1- ; a ratio probably less than the real number, as it is 
well known that many of the dwellings of the more wealthy inhabitants include 
several dbtinct buildings, huts, or out-offices, within the same inclosure, yet in 
die estimate were only reckoned as one. We shall now proceed to give the 
different estimates, deduced by their authors from the best documents existing 
at the time of their formation, but which there is great reason to suppose, from 
subsequent research, were ail much under the mark. 

In 1772, Lord Clive computed the population of the British provinces, con- 
sisting then of Bengal and Bahar at 20,000,000 of persons. 

In 1789, Sir William Jones reckoned them at 24,000,000. 

In 1793, Mr. Colebrooke was decidedly of opinion after mature consideration, 
that including Benares they could not be reckoned at less than 27,000,000, 
which corroborates Sir William Jones’s calculation. Another estimate was made 
in 1790, but thought unworthy of consideration, which carried the population so 
high as 32,987,000, yet was probably the most correct. 

In 1801, by the directions of the Marquis Wellesley, then Governor-General, 
the Board of Revenue in Bengal circulated various questions, on statistical 
subjects, to the magistrates and collectors of the different divisions, with the view 
of ascertaining the population and resources of their respective districts. The 
returns to these were, with some valuable exceptions, rather hastily made, and 
without due consideration of the subject; but it is remarkable that all these 
public functionaries, either from the fear of appearing to exaggerate, or from the 
novelty of the subject, kept greatly within the real amount ; which we shall 
exemj^ify by a comparison of their estimates, with others subsequently made, 
imder more fevourable circumstances, by Dr. Francis Buchanan. In 1807, 1808, 
idid 1809, this gentleman was deputed by government to sun’ey and report on 
ffie i^agal districts of Rungpoor, Dinagepoor, and Purneali, in the prosecution of 
whhdl tlto puWic officers of government (European and native) were directed to 
hiai eveary assistance, and to furnish him with every requisite record and 
’dodinftintt. The results of his surv'ey were most voluminous, and minute 
. the resources and actual condition of each district, accompanied by 

ihM most elaborate dcscriptkm, compi^ending not only tbe 



THE PROVINCE [popui^atiok. 

population of the whole, but of every seiwffate police subdivision and town of 
an'y importance or magnitude ; and on the whole he was of opinion, that the 
total amount of the population, as given in his tables, was not materially 
wrong, although they might err in particular instances. Dr. Buchanan was 
selected by government on account of the well-earned reputation he had 
already obtained for general knowledge, soundness of judgment, and habits of 
laborious research, and certainly no other person of equal abilities, with the 
exception of Mr. Bayley, ever directed so much attention to this partic^ar 
object, or executed it with so many collateral advantages. The result of , his 
investigation, however, gives so enormous a population, when compared with 
prior estimates, as utterly to astonish the mind, yet his conclusions succectded 
a most severe examination of all the existing circumstances ; while the others 
were, mostly, after very superficial consideration; and some evidently the 
effusions of mere fancy and conjecture. When we add to this, that Mr. 
Bayley’s subsequent investigation of the population of Burdwan, in 1814, 
tended completely to corroborate Dr. Buchanan’s calculations, we must think 
them entitled to a decided preference. To render the subject more intelligible, 
we subjoin the respective estimates of the magistrate, collector and Dr. Francis 
Buchanan. 

Rungpoor District. 

The Magistrate's estimate, 1801 1,000,000 inhabitants. 


The Collector’s ditto, 1801 400,000 

Dr. Francis Buchanan’s ditto, 1809 ... 2,735,000 

Dmagepoor District. 

The Magistrate’s estimate, 1801 700,000 

The Collector’s ditto, 1801 1,000,000 

Dr. Francis Buchanan’s ditto, 1808 . . • 3,000,000 

Pumeah District. 

The Magistrate’s estimate, 1601 1,400,000 

The Collector’s ditto, 1801 1,450,000 


Dr. Francis Buchanan’s ditto, 1810 .. . . . 2,900,000 
We now proceed to give a detailed statement of the number of inhabitants in 
Bengal, Bahar, and Benares, extracted from the returns of the magistrates and 
collectors in 1801, with the exception of the three districts above mentioited, 
and Boglipoor and Bahar, which are taken from Dr. Buchanan’s Statistical TaMes. 
ai\d of Burdwan from Mr. Bayley, in the Asiatic lUsearchM. It wBl imuMdiately 
strike the reader that if the population of the other districts be as much mider* 
rated as those surveyed by Dr. Buchanan and Mr. Bayley, great as the Sum toti^ 
U, It would nearly admit of being doubled. .^ . , ,.<1 



poputATio^.] OF BENGAL. 47 

Population of the Province of Bengal. Inhabitants. 

The 24 Pergunnahs, including Calcutta, 1801 .... 1,625,000 

Midnapoor district, 1801 1,500,000 

Hooghly district, 1801 1,000,000 

Burdwan district, 1814 1,450,000 

Jessore district, 1801 1,200,000 

NuddCa district, 1801 800,000 


7,575,000 

Dacca Jelalpoor district, and the city, 1801 . 1,140,000 

Backergunge district, 1801 926,000 

Chittagong district, 1801 1,200,000 

Tiperah district, 1801 750,000 

Mymunsingh district, 1801 1,360,000 

Silhet district, 1801 500,000 

5,876,000 

Muorshedabad district and city, 1801 . . . 1,020,000 

Birboom district, 1801 700,000 

Rajshahy district, 1801 1,500,000 

Rungpoor district, 1 809 2,735,000 

Dinagepoor, 1808 3,000,000 

Pumeah district, 1810 2,900,000 

11,855,000 


Total Bengal . 25,306,000 


Bahar Province. 

Boglipoor district, 1811 2,755,150 

Bahar district, 1812 2,019,000 

Sarun district, 1801 1,200,000 

Shababad district, 1801 2,000,000 

Tirfaoot district, 1801 2,000,000 


Ramghur, district, by estimate 1,000,000 

Benarea province, 1801 3,000,000 

102,000 square miles— Total old provinces . 39,6 79,150 

Bfttgal c^prehends within its geographical limits, three very large citi^, 
Calcutta Dacca, and Moorshedabad. besides many prosperous inland trading 
towm^ Wjh aa Hooghly, Serajegunge, Bogwangola, Cossimbasar, each con- 
taii^ a great population, but of which no authentic returns have been as yet 
dinaaratad* The iblkming ate the number of inhabitants reported on very 



48 the PROVINGE [CAtccfTA, 

probable grounds to be resident in the cities and towns respee^v^y to w^kbi 
the numbers are attached ; 

Calcutta . . 500,000 Chandemagore 41,877 Nairaingunge 20,000 
Dacca . . 200,000 Pumeah . . 33,000 Matdda . . 18,000 

Moorshedabad 150,000 Rajamahal . 30,000 Gour . . . 18,000 

Burdwan . 53,900 Dinagepoor . 28,000 Chandereona 18,145 

The small villages of from 100 to 600 are almost incredibly numetons, mad in 
some parts of the country form a chain of many miles along the baidce thd 
rivers, similar to what we find described in the most populous parts of thd 
Chinese empire. While passing them by the inland navigation it is pleasing tol 
view the cheerful bustle and crowded population by land and water; men, old 
women, children, birds, and beasts, all mixed and intimate, evincing a sense 
of security, and appearance of happiness, seen in no part of India beyond the 
Company’s territories. Nor have the natives of Bengal any real evils to com- 
plain of, except such as originate from their own propensity to Ktigation, and 
from the occasicmal predatory visits of gang robbers and river pirates. To pro- 
tect them fi’om the last, the exertions of the government, and of their servants 
in the magistracy, have been most strenuous, and continued with such persever- 
ing and increasing energy, that there is at last a prospect of this most desirable 
object being accomplished. With respect to the first, the Bengalese are from 
characteristic peculiarity, particularly prone to legal disputation, and, politically 
pacific, seem socially and domestically martial. Among them wars seem 
frittered into law, and the ferocious passions dwarfed doum to the bickcsring and 
snarling of the hut and village. In this vociferation they are greatly assist^ by 
the women, who after the age of thirty, generally turn termagants, and become 
agitated by a furious spirit of discord, which they vent in such loud, vindent, 
and indecent railings, as are no where else to be paralleled. 

We shall now proceed to describe the city of Calcutta, and also the set^ 
nients belonging to the French, Dutch, and Danes, which m its vicinity aie seat- 
tered along the banks of the Hooghly brtmch of the Ganges. — (Pubtk doamentit 
moiuscript md printed, F. Buchamm, Cokbroolee, W. B. 

CALCUTTA (Calkata). 

This city is situated about lOO ^iiles fimn the sea, on the east's*^ , 
western branch of the Ganges, nmned by Europeans the Hooghlyi orCabt^h 
river, but by the natives, tUe Bfaagirathi, or true Ganges and coashkred by 
diem peculiarly holy. Fort William, its citadel, stands in lat. 22* 2^ FT. 
long. 88’ 28 ' E. 

The locality of this at|^ is not ibttmiate. for It \a$ MCMaMirii 
and an inuEuense fotm dose' to it, mii was at first deemed 




OF BENGAL 


CALCUTTA.] 


49 


unhealthy than Batavia, which it resembled in being placed in a flat and marshy 
country. The English, it has been remarked, have been more inattentive to 
the local advanU^^ of situation than the French, who have always in India 
sdeeted better stations for founding their foreign settlements. The jungle has 
since been cleared away to a certain distance, the streets properly drained, and 
the ponds filled up, by which a vast surface of stagnant water has been removed, 
but the air of the town is still much aflected by the vicinity of the Sunderbunds. 
At high water, the river is here a full mile in breadth, but during ebb tide, the 
opposite shore exposes a long range of dry sand banks. On approaching Cal- 
cutta from the sea, a stranger is much struck with its magnificent appearance ; 
the elegant villas on each side of the river, the Company’s botanic gardens, the 
spires of the churches, temples, and minarets, and the strong and regular 
citadel of Fort William. It exhibited a very diflerent appearance in 1717, of 
which the following is a correct description. 

The present town was then a village, appertaining to the district of Nuddea, 
the houses of which were scattered about in clusters of 10 or 12 each, and the 
inhabitants chiefly husbandmen. A forest existed in the south of Chandpaul 
Ghaut, which was afterwards by degrees removed. Between Kidderpoor and 
the forest, were two villages, whose inhabitants were invited to settle in 
Calcutta, by the ancient family of the Seats, who were at that time merchants of 
great note, and very instrumental in bringing Calcutta into the fonn of a town. 
Fort William and the esplanade are the site where this forest, and the two 
villages above mentioned formerly stood. In 1610, there were still inhabitants 
alive, who could recollect a creek, which extended from Chandpaul Ghaut to 
Balliaghaut ; and who said, that the drain before the government house is where 
it took its course. To the south of the Beytakhana there is still a ditch, which 
shews evident traces of the continuation of this creek. In 1717, there was a 
small village, consisting of straggling houses, surrounded by puddles of water, 
where now stand the elegant houses at Chouringhee ; and Calcutta may, at this 
period, be described as extending to Chitpore bridge, but the intervening space 
consisted of ground covered with jungle. In 1742, a ditch viras dug round a 
considerable portion of the boundaries of Calcutta, to prevent the incursions of 
the Maharattas ; and it appears from Orme’s History of the War in Bengal, that 
at the time of its capture in 1766, there were about 70 houses in the town be- 
longing to tibe English. What are now called the esplanade, the site of 
Fort Wflliam and Chouringhee, were, so late as 1766, a complete jungle, inter- 
spersed with hats, and small pieces of grazing -and arable land. 

In 1752, die town of Calcutta (as d^cribed by Mr. Hclwdl) was divided into 
fimr principal districts, under the denominations of Dee Calcutta, Goihid^ocf, 

VOL. I. H 



THE PROVINCE 


50 


[CALCUTTA. 


Sootanutty, and Bazar Calcutta, to each of which, and to the great bazar a 
distinct cutcherry was appropriated. These four districts comprehended 7,206 
begahs of land, and contained (exclusive of mosques, temples, &c. &c.) 9,461 
houses. Within the Company’s bounds, there was also land then possessed by 
independent proprietors, amounting to 3,050 begahs, and containing 6,267 
houses ; which, added to those under the Company’s protection, made the whole 
amount to 14,718 houses, on 10,255 begahs (at 30 begahs to 11 acres) equal to 
3,790 English acres. For the sake of distinction, Mr. Holwell calls the ipro- 
prietors of the above 14,718 houses, principal tenants, or holders of leases. Who 
had their lodgers or under tenants within their respective limits, estimated in 
the ratio of five under tenants to each principal lease holder, who possessed one 
begah of land. If, therefore, 8,522, the exact number of begahs paying rent, 
be multiplied by 6, the number of houses then in Calcutta would be 51,132, 
which sum being multiplied by 8 inhabitants for each house (which Mr. Holwell 
calls a moderate number), the result would give a total of 409,056 constant 
inhabitants, without reckoning the multitude that were daily coming and 
going. 

The modern town of Calcutta extends along the east side of the river above 
six miles, but the breadth varies very much at different places. The esplanade 
between the town and Fort William leaves a grand opening, along the edge of 
which is placed the new government house, erected by the Marquis Wellesley, 
and continued on in a line with this edifice, is a range of magnificent houses 
ornamented with spacious verandahs. Chouringhee, formerly a collection of 
native huts, is now an entire village of palaces, and extends for a considerable 
distance into the country. The architecture of the houses is Grecian, which 
does not appear the best adapted for the country or climate, as die pillars of the 
verandahs are too much elevated, to keep out the sun during the morning and 
evening; although at both these times, especially the latter, the beat is ex- 
cessive ; and in the wet season it is deluged by the rain. Perhaps a more con- 
fined Hindoo style of building, although less ornamental, might be found of 
more practical comfort. The principal square extends about 500 yards each 
way, and contains in the centre an extensive tank, surrounded by a handsome 
wall and raulmg, and having a gradation of steps to the bottom, wUch is 60 feet 
from the top of its banks. A range of indifferent looking houses, known by the 
name of the writers buildings, occupies one side of the sqtmre, and near to it on 
the site of .the old fort, taken by Seraje ud Dowlah, in 1757 , is a custom house, 
and several other handsome buddings. The black hole is now {mrt of a ware- 
^house, and filled with merchandize. A monument is erected &dttg the gate, to 
^mmemorate the unfortunate persons who there perish ed ; but it has beeu 



CALCUTTA.] OF BENGAL. 51 

struck by tightening, and is itself going fast to decay. A quay has been erected 
in front of die custom house, which promises to be a great convenience, and it 
would be a still greater were the embankment extended along the whole face of 
the town next the river. In 1818, to make room for some improvements in the 
neighbourhood of Tank Square, the remaining portion of the wall of the old fort 
was* removed, on which occasion its solid and substantial fabric, both as to brick 
and mortar, indicated a Mling off in the art of building in India. 

The government house is the most remarkable public edifice in Calcutta. 
The lower story forms a rustic basement, with arcades to the building, which 
is Ionic. On the north side there is a flight of steps, under which carriages 
drive to the entrance ; and, on the south there is a circular colonade, with a 
dome. The four wings, one at each comer of the building, are connected with 
it by circular passages, so long as to secure their enjoying the air all round, 
from whichever quarter the wind blows. These wings contain ftll, the private 
apartments ; and in the north-east comer is the council room, decorated like 
other public rooms with portraits. The centre of the building contains two 
uncommonly fine rooms: the lowest is paved with dark grey marble, and 
supported by doric columns, chunamed, resembling marble. Above this hall is 
the ball-room, floored with dark polished wood, and supported by Ionic pillars. 
Both rooms are lighted by a profusion of cut glass lustres, suspended from the 
painted cieling, where an excellent taste is displayed in the decorations. 

Besides the government house, the other public buildings are a town house, 
the court of justice, and two churches of the established religion, one of which 
makes a very handsome appearance, but the other is a plain building. There 
are also churches for the Portugueze Catholics, another of the Greek persuasion, 
an Armenian church, and many small Hindoo temples, and Mahommedan 
mosques. The hospital and jail are to the south of the town. The botanic 
garden is beautifully situated on the west bank of the river, and gives the name 
of Garden Beach to a bend of the Hooghly. Above the garden there is an 
extensive teak plantation, which is not a native of this part of India, but which 
thrives well here. There is a private dock yard opposite to Fort William, and 
another one mile below it, on the same side of the river. 

The black town extends along the river to the north, and exhibits a remark- 
able contrast to the part inhabited by Europeans. Persons who have only seen 
the latter (which is probably the case of a great many individuals) have little 
conception of the remainder of the city ; but those, who have been led there by 
their public or private avocations, will bear testimony to the wretched condition 
0 $ at least six m eight parts of this externally magnificent city. The stre^ here 
ate narrow, dirty, and unpaved ; the houses ol two stories are of brick, with 

>> K 2 



52 THE PROVINCE [calcitita^ 

flat terraced roofs ; but the great majority are mud cottages, covered with small 
tUes) with side walls of mats, bamboos, and other combustible materials, the 
whole within and without swarming with population. Fires, as may be inferred 
from the construction, are of frequent occurrence ; but do not in the least aflfect 
the European quarter, which, from the mode of building, is quite incombustible. 
In this division the houses stand detached from each other, within a space 
enclosed by walls, the general approach being by a flight of steps under a large 
verandah, their whole appearance being uncommonly elegant and respec^ble. 
Although brick, mortar, and wood, are not scarce in Calcutta, yet the nmney 
sunk in building a house is very considerable ; and, being a perishable Com- 
modity, requiring constant repair, house rent is proportionally high. The 
white ants are also so destructive and rapid in their operations, that sometimes 
every beam in a house may be completely excavated internally, while out- 
wardly it appears perfectly sound. 

In Calcutta, the greater number of the bazars are the property of individuals, 
who pay a certain assessment to government, fixed in perpetuity, or for a long 
period of years. The total number of this description is 13, and their collective 
assessment 10,050 rupees. Three of them, denominated from the persons who 
established them, Tiretta’s bazar, Sherburne’s bazar, and Short's bazar, are 
held un^r grants from government for 99 years ; the two former assessed with 
500 rupees per annum ; the last with 832 rupees. These grants were made to 
encourage the construction of substantial buildings, adapted for the convenience 
of the market dealers in the diflferent parts of the town. "Six other bazars, 
erected on ground beloi^ng to the government, are let in ferm. 

Fort William stands about a quarter of a mile below the town, and is superior 
in strength and regularity to any fortress in India. It is of an octagon form, 
five of the faces being regular, while the forms of the other three next the river, 
are according to the local circumstances. As no approach by land is to be ap- 
prehended on this side, the river coming up to the glacis, it was merdy neoes- 
sary to guard against attack by water, by providing a great superiority of fire, 
which purpose has been attained by giving the citadel towards the water the 
form of a large salient an^e, the faces of which enfilade the course of the river. 
From these faces the guns continue to bear upon the objects, till they approadi 
very near to the dty, when they would receive the fire of the batteries parallel 
to the river. This part is likewise defended by adjoining bastions, and a counter- 
guard which covers them. 

The five r^lar sides are towards the land ; the bastums have all vwy anfierit 
oriUons, behind which are retired circular flanks, extnmidy spacioiis, and an 
inverse double flank at the height of the betine. This double wo^ be an 



K)BT WILLIAM.] OF BENGAL. 53 

exodlent defence, and would serve to retard tiie passages of the ditch, as from 
its form it cannot be enfiladed. The oriUoin preserves it from the effect of 
ricochet shot, and it u not to be seen from any parallel. The berme, opposite 
to the curtain, serves as a road to it, and contributes to the defence of tilie 
ditch like a frusse-bray. 

The ditch is dry, with a -cunette in the middle, which receives the water of 
the river by means of two sluices that are commanded by the fort. The 
counterscarp and covered-way are excellent, every curtain is covered with a 
large half moon, without flanks, bonnet, or redoubt, but the faces mount 13 
pieces of heavy artillery each ; thus giving to the defence of these ravelins, a fire 
of 26 guns. The demi-bastions, which terminate the five regular fronts on each . 
side, are covered by a coxmterguard, of which the faces, like the half moons, 
are pierced with 13 embrasures. These counterguards are connected vriUi 
two redoubts, constructed in the place of arms of the adjacent re-entering angles; 
the whole is faced and palisadoed with care, kept in admirable condition, and 
capable of making a vigorous defence against any army, however formidable. 
The advanced works are executed on an extensive scale ; and the angles of the 
half moons being extremely acute, project a great way, so as to be in view of 
each other beyond the flanked angle of the polygon, and capable of taking the 
trenches in the rear at an early period of the approach. 

This citadd was commenced by Lord Clive soon after the battle ofPlassey, 
and was intended by him to be complete in every respect, but it has since been 
discovered, that it is erected on too extensive a scale to answer the purpose for 
which It was intended, that of a tenable post in case of extremity, as the number 
of troops required to garrison it properly, would be able to keep the field. It 
is capable of containing 15,000 men, and the works are so extensive, that 10,000 
would be required to defend them efficiently, and from first to last have cost the 
East India Company two millions sterling. The works are scarcely at all raised 
above the level of the surrounding country, of course do not make an imposing 
appearance firom without, nor are they perceptible until closely approached. 
This excites great surprise in the natives coming from the interior, who always 
cmmect the idea of great strength with great elevation, and usually mistake the 
barracks for the fort ; which, however, only contains such buildings as are ab- 
solutely necessary, such as the residence of the commandant, quarters for the 
oAsers and troops, and the arsenal. These barracks make a very'handsome 
q>pearance, and affi>rd excellent accommodarion both to the privates and officeia. 

interior of thefr)rt is perfectly open, presenting to the view luge grass pMs 
and graved walks, kept cool by rows of trees, and in the finest order, intermixed 
vrith pUes of balls, bomb diells, and cannon. Buffi gate has a house over H 



54 the province [CALCUTTA. 

destined for the residence of a major. Between the fort and town an extennve 
level space intervenes, called the esplanade. 

The garrison is usually composed of two or three European regiments, one of 
artillery, with artificers and workmen for the arsenals. The native corps, 
amounting to about 4,000 men, are generally cantoned at Barrackpoor, fifteen 
miles higher up the river, and supply about 1,200 monthly, +0 perform the duty 
of the fort. The wells in the different out-works of Fort William, some of 
which are 500 yards from the river, during the hot season become so brackish, 
as to be unfit either for culinary purposes, or for washing. Government \ has 
in consequence formed an immense reservoir, occupying one of the bastions;! to 
be filled, when required, with rain water. 

Until 1814, it had always been a commonly received opinion that the soil in 
the vicinity of Calcutta was particularly moist and full of springs, but the 
reverse was proved in that year, as after boring to the depth of 140 feet, no 
springs of any description were perceptible. While deepening, in 1813, the 
great tank at the beginning of the Chouringhee road, a quantity of decayed 
wood was found at the depth of 35 feet below the surface, which was imagined 
at that time to be an accidental circumstance; but in 1814, when Sir Edward 
Hyde East bored in search of springs, rotten wood in a stratum of blue clay 
was perforated, at the distance of half a mile from the tank above mentioned, 
which renders probable the supposition, that the debris of an ancient forest 
forms a substratum to a considerable extent, at that distance from the surface. 
The acknowledged improvement of the climate in and about Calcutta of late 
years, is to be ascribed to the attention paid by the police to a general system 
of drainage, and to the cutting of broad straight roads through the contiguous 
woods, in the direction of the prevailing winds. If some less swampy pro- 
duction cOuld be substituted for rice in its neighbourhood, perhaps a still greater 
degree of salubrity might be attained. The rainy season at Calcutta usually 
begins about die 12th of June, and is accompanied by much thunder, and ends 
about the 14th of October. 

Calcutta possesses the advantage of an excellent inland navigation, foreign 
imports being transported with great fecility on the Ganges and its subsiduffy 
streams, to the northern nations of Hindostan, while the valuable productions 
of the interior are received by the same channels. There are seldbm less than 
one million sterling in cloths belonging to native merchants deposited in Cal- 
cutta for sale, and every other species of merchandize in an equal proportion. 
The total capital belonging to native monied and commercifid interests was 
estimated in 1807, to exeeed 16,000,000 sterling, and has certainly since tlmt 
time been greatly augmented. This amount is employed by them in tiM go- 



CALCUTTA.] OF BENGAL. 55 

vmmrat funds, loans to individuals, internal and external trade, and in various 
other transactions. The formerly timid Hindoo now lends money on respon- 
dentia, on distant voyages, engages in speculations to remote parts of the world, 
ensures as an underwriter, and erects indigo works in different parts of the 
provinces. He has the advantage of trading on his ovm capital with much 
greater frugality than a European, and exclusive of the security of his property, 
enjoys the most perfect toleration of his religion. In September, 1808, the 
Calcutta government bank was established, with a capital of 50 lacks of rupees, 
of which government have 10 lacks, and individuals the remainder. The notes 
issued are not for less than 10 rupees, or more than 10,000. 

There have been various opinions as to the population of Calcutta, but it does 
not appear that any very correct census has ever been taken. In 1802, the 
police magistrates reckoned the population at 600,000; about 1810, Sir Henry 
Russel, the chief judge, computed the population of the town and its environs 
at one million ; and General Kyd the population of the city alone at between 
4 and 600,000 inhabitants. Probably half a million will be a tolerably correct 
approximation of the real number. The adjacent country is also so thickly in- 
habited, that in 1802 the police magistrates were of opinion that Calcutta, with 
a circuit of 20 miles, comprehended 2,225,000 souls. In 1798, the number of 
houses, shops, and other habitations in the town of Calcutta, belonging to 


individuals, was as follows : 

British subjects 4,300 

Armenians 640 

Portugueze and other Christian inhabitants 2,650 

Hindoos 56,460 

Mahomedans 14,700 

Chinese 10 


Total houses . 78,760 

The above statement does not include the new and old forts, and many 
houses the property of the East India Company. 

Rupees. 

In the official year, 1813-14, the house tax collected amounted to . 186,053 
The disbursements for salaries, collectors, commission, scavengers, 
town watch and river watch (62,000 rupees), carts, labourers, 

&c. &c. &c. amounted to • • • 178,266 


Surplus . 7,787 



56 THE PROVINCE tcALcwTTA. 

The following are the sums collected in diBerent brandies of the public town 
reVenue within Calcutta in the official year 181d-14. The tax for licenses on 
the sale of spirits produced 150,948 rupees ; the duty on the fermented juice 
the toddy tree 26,997 rupees ; the tax on European distilleries 72,162 ; the duty 
on Ganja, or intoxicating drugs, 9,004 rupees; the market duties 12,205; fees and 
fines 9,868. The receipt of tolls on the canals was as follows : — 

Rupees. Charges. Net receipts. 

Tolley’s Canal.— Produce of tolls, in 1813-14 62,885 4,482 58,0^ 


New Canal ditto . . . 11,435 2,111 9,334 

Banka Canal .... ditto . . . 6,906 2,264 4,642 

Canals joining the Issamutty and other rivers in the Nuddea district. 
Collections in 1813-14 23,105 11,750 11,355 


Through these canals, and along the various streams of flowing water, innu- 
merable small craft arrive from the interior and upper provinces, loaded with the 
produce and manufactures of their respective countries, while the shipping col- 
lected opposite to the town presents a magnificent spectacle. The river in many 
places reaches almost to the basis of the houses, and the people descend by flights 
of steps built of brick masonry. Owing to the custom of throwing dead bodies 
into it, the water is sufficiently dirty, yet is resorted to in crowds by toe natives 
for toe purposes of ablution. The rapidity of the tides up and down causes a 
constant circulation both of air and water, and tends to prevent toe deleterious 
effects which would otherwise result from a body of water containing such putrid 
infusions, were it in the slightest degree stagnant, or even torpid in its motions. 
The following statement will shew the amount of foreign shipping in toe river 
Hooghly on the 1st of February, 1819 : — 

T(ms 

East India Company’s ships 1 818 


Freetraders 24 11,174 

Country ships employed 29 10,516 

Ditto laid up for sale or freight ... 32 13,015 

American vesssels 6 1,966 

French vessels 7 2,058 

Spanish vessels ~ — 

Portugueze vessels 5 1,478 

Danish vessels — — 

Arab vessels — — 


Total 41,980 

The European society in Calcutta is numerous, fay, and confivill, and the 



eAtccTTA.] OF BENGAL. 57 

given by the Governors General, splendid and well arranged. Each of the 
principal officers of government have their public days for the reception of their 
friends, independent of which not a day passes, particularly during the cold 
seascm, without several large dinner parties being formed of from 30 to 40. A 
subscription assembly also subsists, but it is unfashionable, although it is the 
<Hily place of public amusement, the society being much subdivided into parties. 

It is usual to rise early, in order to enjoy the cool air of the morning, which is 
particularly pleasant before sunrise. Betwixt one and two a meal is taken, which 
is called tiffin, after which many retire to bed for two or tliree hours. The 
dinner is commonly after sunset, which necessarily keeps the guests up until 
midnight. The viands are excellent and served in great profusion ; and as the 
heat of the climate does not admit of their being kept, great part are at last 
thrown out to the pariah dogs, and birds of prey. The lower orders of Portu- 
gueze, to whom alone they could be serviceable, cannot consume the whole; and 
the religious prejudices of the native servants, prevent their tasting any food 
prepared by persons not of their caste or religion. To this circumstance is to be 
attributed the amazing flocks of crows, kites, and vultures, which, undisturbed 
by man, live together in amicable society, and almost cover the houses and gar- 
dens. In their profession of scavengers, the kites and crows are assisted durii^ 
the day by the voracious adjutant stork, and after sunset by pariah dogs, foxes, 
and jackals, which then emerge from the neighbouring jungles, and with their 
howls make night hideous. 

The wines chiefly drank are Madeira and claret ; the former, which is excel- 
lent, during the meal, the latter afterwards. The claret being medicated for the 
voyage, is by some considered too strong, and both sorts of wine incur great 
danger from the musk rats, which, though small, have so strong a smell, that if 
one of them gets into a chest of wine, every bottle of wine it passes over, smells 
so disagreeably, and acquires so disgusting a flavour that it is not drinkable. 

The Calcutta market supplies a great variety of game, such as snipes, wild 
ducks, partridges, and different species of the ortolan tribe ; the whole compa- 
ratively cheap. The wild venison is much inferior to that of Britain, but the 
park or stall fed is equally good. The hare is a very poor creature, and differs 
in many qualities from that of Britain, being deficient in size, strength and 
PUdfrneu, which observation also applies to the Bengal fox, which is a very 
poattempiible animaL The tables of the gentlemen in Calcutta are distii^pushed 
||ity a vast profrnion of most beautiful fruifo, procured at a very moderate expense, 
|a<^ as pine apples, plantains, mangoes, pomeloes or shaddocks, melons of sH 
pli, <»rfuD^^ cttstaid afq^ peamhes, and an endless variety <ff other 

piuird fruits* But the great Injpi^ ^ Cal^^dta is die mai^^oe fish (so naoned . 
ptot. 1 .' , ' t 



58 THE PROVINCE [calcwa. 

from its appearing during the mangoe season), the taste and fiavonr of which 
can never be sutficiently ejitolled. By tiiie natives they are named the Tapaswi 
(penitent) fish, (abbreviated by Europeans to Tipsy,) from their resembling a class 
of religious penitents, who ought never to shave. ' 

The usual mode of visiting is in palanquins, but many gentlemen have car- 
riages adapted to the climate, and the breed of horses has lately been greatly 
improved. It is universally the practice to drive out between sunset and dinner, 
and as it becomes dark, servants with torches go out and meet their masters, jand 
run before the carriages with an astonishing rapidity, and for a wonderful lei^[th 
of time. ]|t was formerly the fashion, and it is still adhered to up the counfry, 
for gentlemen to dress in white cotton jackets on all occasions, being well suited 
to the climate, but being thought too much of an undress for public occasions, 
they are now laid aside for coats of English cloth. 

The British inhabitants stationary in Calcutta, and scattered through the pro- 
vinces, are generally hospitable in the highest degree, and most liberal where 
their assistance is wanted. When an officer of respectability dies, in either 
service, leaving a widow or children, a subscription is immediately commenced, 
which in every instance has proved generous, and not unfrequently has conferred 
on the parties a degree of affluence, that the life of the husband or parent could 
not for many years have accomplished. The Asiatic Society was planned 
by Sir William Jones on the outward voyage from England, and formed into a 
regular institution on the 15th January, 1814. Its principal object is to concen- 
trate in one focus the valuable knowledge that may be occasionally attained of 
Asia, or at least to preserve many little tracts and essays, the writers of which 
might not think them of sufficient importance for separate publication. From 
this period may be dated the commencement of ail accurate information regard- 
ing India in general, and Hindostan in particular, which even at the present d^ 
is but very imperfectly kno^vn. 

The Company grant a princely allowance to their civil servants, but large as 
it is, it does not always suffice for the expenses of tiie juniors, many of whom, tm 
their arrival, set up an extravagant establishment of horses, carriages, and ser- 
vants, and thereby involve themselves in embarrassments, atn very early period 
of their lives. To support this profuse mode of living they are obliged to Imtm 
from their dewan, who is generally a monied native of rank, who suppliei their 
extravagance, and encourages their dissipation until their difficulties are almost 
inextricable. While the young civilian remains in an inferimr situatimi, the (hibt 
to the dewan continues to accumulate ; and when higher appointments are at 
length attained, it requires years to clear off the embanwMammts of his 
thoughtlessness. li»tances of this deicriptmaie now rare,compaied wWi what 



CAixsuTTA.] OF BENGAL. 59 

they were at an earlier period of the Company’s acquisitions ; and, notwithstand- 
ing the multiplied temptations, a very great majority of those who reach the 
higher stations wholly escape their influence, and are distinguished for the most 
unsullied integrity of character. Whenever a deviation has occurred, it could 
invariably be traced to the imprudence of the young man on his first arrival, and 
his subsequent dependence on his dewan. 

The British merchants of Calcutta are a numerous and respectable body of 
men, many of whom have acquired large fortunes by their industry and enter- 
prising spirit, and conduce essentially to the prosperity of the province. Here 
they display a liberality in their manner of living, seldom equalled in other parts 
of the world ; and their acts of charity and munificence to persons in distress 
have never been surpassed by any similar number of individuals of any rank 
whatever. 

The Armenians are a respectable, and probably the most numerous body of 
foreign merchants at the presidency. They carry on an extensive trade to 
China and the eastward, and to the west as far as the Arabian Gulf, or Red Sea. 
Some of the superior class are usually invited to the public balls and entertain- 
ments. The number of Greek merchants in Calcutta is not considerable. They 
maintain one clergyman who performs religious worship according to their rites. 
The Portugueze houses of agency are, in point of number, next to those of the 
English. A very considerable number of the progeny of that nation reside in 
Calcutta and the environs, and have approximated very closely to the natives in 
appearance and manners. Among the various classes of mercantile co mmuni ty 
no mention is made of Jews. Few of that nation have settled in Hindostan, 
and Calcutta is probably the only very opulent town that is wholly free from 
them. Their practices and occupations are engrossed by the native, sirkj^ 
banyans, and writers ; most of whom are quite a match for any Jew. The shops 
of these petty traffickers, although better than their houses, are mean and dis- 
agreeable. The European shops are singularly splendid. Some of these native 
traders have accumulated enormous fortunes, and the public apartments of a few 
are fitted up after the European ffishion with elegant chandeliers, pier glasses, 
couches, chests of drawers, desks, and two or three hundred chairs ; while in 
other rooms the images their gods are seen decorated with jewels. Some 
have taken to the drinking of tea, some keep Engli^ coaches and equipages, 
and one in particular had an English coachman. 

Without being attached to some department of the service,, or trained up to 
some mechanical trade, there is hardly any hope of prosperity to a young man 
hrigntting m chaaiee Bm?e all the in^rior situatkms ai dniks, 

ffrr nriinhmirwiff an^itis/tiythiitkiiTriitleilwili 

' i2 ' 


60 THE PROVINCE [cALCutTA. 

in Europe, that young men rise to opulence in the commercial world. It is 
scarcely in the power, even of a governor general, to assist a person of respec* 
table connexions, who does not belong to one of the liberal professions ; and 
although the general climate of the province is not essentially improved, Euro* 
peans are now much better acquainted with the means of counteracting its effects 
than formerly, and deaths are far from being so frequent. Regularity of living, 
avoiding too much exposure to the sun, and all extremes (even cd* abstinence) are 
much more practised by the modem inhabitants, than they were by the e|rly 
adventurers ; vacancies, consequently, in any line or trade are of much r^rer 
occurrence. The maintenance and education of children, the offspring of £i^ 
peans in India, have, on account of their number, become objects of great 
importfmce. Two institutions for this purpose have been formed, one for the 
education of officers’ children, and the other for those of private soldiers. To 
these charitable foundations may be added a free school and native hcrapital. 

It is in Calcutta, that the effect of the intercourse between Europeans and 
natives is in any degree visible, as there alone, an indistinct sort of link may 
be discerned between the rulers and the people. The lowest and poorest Euro- 
peans, and the native bom Christians and Portugueze, do, in some slight degree, 
mix with the natives in their ordinary concerns and amusements, just sufficient 
to produce a very inconsiderable change in their manners and character. The 
establishment of the supreme court, and the intercourse between tile natives 
and the lowest officers of that court, must be considered another cause of the 
same nature ; but by these causes their morals have not been in the slightest 
degree improved. On the contrary they have learned all the mean arts of chi* 
canery, imposture, and litigiousness, to which they are by nature sufficiently 
prone ; without acquiring a particle of plain dealing, firmness, independence of 
spirit, or useful knowledge. They appear to imbibe only those principles of the 
European character which tend to impair the mildness and simplicity of their 
own ; and whenever in the behaviour of the natives insolence, ill lutture, coarse- 
ness, bmtality or dmnkenness, qualities hostile to their national character, are 
observed, the change may be invariably traced to their intercourse with low 
Europeans. 

The supreme court of judicature at Calcutta consists of a diidT justice and 
two puisne judges, nominated to timir situations in India by the king. Its cog^ 
nizance extends to ail British subjects, that is, natives or the descaaebats of 
the natives of Great Britain in India, and to all the inhidntants within tile paro- 
chial limits of Calcutta, as enclosed by the Mahaiattadilciil; hot this court is 
allowed no cognizance over the land revenue. In to whioll ^ 
parties, the judges are enjoined, by act of patiiatoeatr to veipeot tim 



CHAKDEEKAGORE.] OF BENGAL. 6l 

the country. In matters of inheritance or contract, the rule of decision is to be 
the law acknowledged by the litigant parties. Should only one of the parties 
be a Mahommedan or Hindoo, it is to be the law acknowledged by the defendant. 
Criminal offences are tried by a jury consisting, exclusively, of British subjects ; 
in trials of a civil nature the judges decide both on the law and on the fact. 
The supreme court also tries criminal charges against the Company’s servants, 
and civil suits in which the Company or the Company’s servjmts are concerned. 
The law practitioners attached to the court are 14 attomies and 6 barristers. 

Little morality is learned in a court of justice, and notwithstanding the seve- 
rity of the police, and of the English laws, it appears probable that the morals 
of the native inhabitants are worse in Calcutta, than in the provincid districts. 
This is not to be attributed solely to the size, population, and indiscriminate 
society of the capital, but in part to the supreme court ; every native connected 
with which appearing to have his morals contaminated by the intimacy. In 
mentioning this evil, it is not intended in the most remote degree, to attribute it 
to any individual, or body of men, or to speak with disrespect of the institutioD 
itself; but merely to mention a fact, which has probably been remarked by every 
judge who ever sat on the bench. Within these few years the natives have 
attained a sort of legal knowledge, as it is usually denominated. This consists 
of a skill in the arts of collusion, intrigue, subornation, and perjury, which 
enables them to perplex and baffle the magistrate with infinite facility. 

Notwithstanding the temptations to which the natives are exposed, it is sur- 
prising how seldom thefts or burglaries are committed on the property of Euro- 
peans in Bengal, who scarcely take any precautions towards their prevention. In 
some families 30 or 40 domestics, many of them natives of distant provinces, 
sleep during the night within the enclosure, or in the passages and verandahs of 
the house, when every door is open, and detection almost impossible. Owing 
to their extreme timidity they seldom venture to rob openly, or on a laige 
scale, but prefer a more indirect and complicated system of small pilfering and 
cheating. 

Besides the supreme court, Calcutta is the head quarters of a court of appeal, 
and circuit, which comprehends the following subdivisions : 1 . Burdwan ; 2. Jungle 
B^fehals; 3. Midnapoor; 4. Cuttack; 5. Jessore; 6. Nuddea; 7.Hooghly; B. The 
24 Peiguiinahs. — (JPuhik docmnetUSt manuscript and prirUed, Lord Vakntiat Ttth 
Sir M* Strechept MiUmm, Harrmgtm, M. Graham, Rennell, 8sc. Sgc. ^.) 

CuAUOMMAQOtLti (ChanA'vmgara). This French settlement stands m the 
west the river Hooghly, about 16 miles direct distance above Calcutta, 

B. The position of this town is in every respect 



102 THE PROVINCE [chinioea, 

lietter than that of Calcutta; the territory originally attached to itextoided 
two miles along the river and one inland. In 1814, an enumeration was made 
o'f the houses and inhabitants, when the former were found to amount to 8,484, 
and the latter to males 20,829, females 20,648 total, 41,377. 

Abstract of receipts on account of the revenues of Chandemagore for one 
year, from May, 1813, to April, 1814. 

Rupees. 


Land revenue 9,868 

Excise 6,586 

Variable imposts (sayer) 13,532 

Commission on the sale of houses, Ac 2,050 

Fees ; 118 


Total rupees . 32,154 

While under the British government, the foreign settlements of Chandemagore, 
Chinsura, and Serampoor, swarmed with receivers of stolen goods, who pur- 
chased the stolen property clandestinely imported from the Company’s dis- 
tricts ; and, on account of the facilities afforded to this species of traffic, these 
settlements were resorted to by various classes of native cheats, swindlers, 
hawkers, pedlars, and fraudulent pawnbrokers. On this account it was pro- 
posed in 1814, by the police superintendant of the lower districts, that the 
3 stablished shops of ironsmiths, silversmiths, braziers, Ac. Ac. should be placed 
imder the cognizance of the police. 

On the 23d of March, 1757, Chandemagore was taken by the forces under 
Admiral Watson and Colonel Clive, after a most obstinate resistance, and with 
great slaughter on board the ships engaged. It has since remained unfortified, 
and has been taken possession of by the British government without oppositirm 
on the commencement of hostilities with France. On the 4th of December, 
1816, this settlement was delivered over to Major Dayot, tite governor 
appointed to receive it on the part of the French government, after having be» 
(with the exception of a few months in 1802) 23 years in the occupation of die 
British.— (W. B. BaifUy, /. Shakeipear, loet, Rennell, ^.) 

Chinsura (Chinckura).—T\m Dutch setdement is situated on the west 
of the HoogUy river, 18 miles direct distance above Calcutta, latitude 22* 52rN. 
longitude 88*28' E. The first fectory of the Dut^ East India Company was 
erected here in 1656, and the site on the whole is much preferalde to t^ of 
Calcutta. In 1769, Chinsura was blockaded by the Nabob of Bmigalh Ibioeiy 
to die payment of arrears of duties, tddun^h the pnmaoe ym 



sESAHrooE.] OF BENGAL. 63 

actually possessed by tbe English East India Company. It has since been re- 
gularly captured by the British forces on the commencement of hostilities with 
the Butch. 

Abstract of receipts on account of the revenues of Chinsura and Baroagore, 
from the Ist of May, 1813, to 30th April, 1814. 

Rupees. 


Land revenue 4,725 

Excise duties 5,191 

Variable imposts (sayer) 7,089 

Commission on the transfer of houses, Ac. &c. . . . 973 

Fees 10 


Total rupees . 17,988 

Schools were established at Chinsura, and in its vicinity, by Mr. Robert 
May, with the view of instructing native children in reading, writing, and 
arithmetic, in the Bengalese language, on an improved and economieal system, 
conveying instruction in a more speedy and effectual manner than could be 
done by any of the ordinary modes of teaching. On the 11th of July, 1814, the 
total number of children on the books of 15 village schools was 1080, and the 
number of those who regularly attended 861. The greater proportion of the 
teachers are Brahmins, and the remainder of the writer caste. In tihis schocd a 
few of the more advanced boys are taught English, chiefly as a reward for tiietr 
proficiency in their own language, and tiieir general good conduct; which 
branch of education (the teaching of English) ought to receive more encourage- 
ment than it has hitherto done ; and at a future period Mr. May's plan may 
form the basis of a system of more general instruction through the country. — 
(^rntriim, RenneU, May, %c.) 

Seeampoor (Sriramapura). This Danish settlement stands on the west side 
cff the Hooghly river, about 12 miles above Calcutta, latitude 22” 45' N. longi- 
tude 88” 26' E. 

The appearance of Serampoor has a pleasing effect viewed from the river, the 
houses being tolerably well built, and whitened like those of Calcutta with 
dmnam. It extends above a mile along the banks of the Hooghly, but the 
bieidtit is very small, and the whole is environed by the Briti:^ territories. 
The town is witi^ut fortifications, and has only a small battery for saluting, 
yet it has beea a very profitable settiement to the subjects (ff his Danish 
principally by the facilities it afforded to the Calcutta merchants of 
diydofl^er, under the cover of the Danish flag. SMpa of 
bapnot come close up to the town, on account of a ihflitl kmor down. 



64 THE PROVINCE [balwaohaut. 

but labour in this 'province is so cheap, that the additional expense of conve^j^ii^ 
tl\e goods by boats adds little to the prime cost. Here also, until hostilities 
commenced with Denmark, insolvent debtors found an asylum, from whence 
they could set their creditors at defiai\pe. 

Serampoor is the head quarters of the missionaries delegated from Europe, for 
the purpose of converting the natives of Hindostan to the Christian religion ; and 
here they have established a printing press, where the Scriptures have been 
translated into a great variety of dialects. The proficiency attained by ^ese 
worthy men in the eastern languages is truly wonderful ; they have mastered 
even the Chinese, hitherto the opprobrium of linguists. 

Abstract of receipts on account of revenues for one year, from Ist May, 1813, 


to 30th April, 1814. 

Rupees. 

Land revenue 6,050 

Excise 4,168 

Variable imposts (sayer) 2,821 

Commission on the sale of houses, &c. &c 202 


Total rupees . 13,231 

( Lord Vakntia, fy. ^x.) 

Barnagore (Varanagara). This small town stands on the east side of the 
Hooghly river, about three miles above Calcutta. It was originally a Portu- 
guese settlement, but afterwards came into the possession of the Dutch ; and 
by the earlier British authorities is described as being the Paphos of Calcutta. 
Here the coarsest sort of blue handkerchiefs are manufactured. 

Baxxvbazar. a small town on the east side of the Hooghly river, 13 
miles north from Calcutta. The Dutch had formerly a factory here from which 
they were expelled by Aliverdi Khan. Latitude 22* 46' N. longitude 38* 28’ E. 

Barrackfoor. This may be designated as a British settlement, situated 6n 
the east side of the river Hooghly, about 16 miles above Calcutta. Here arc the 
unfinished arches of a house begun by the Marquis Wellesley, but discontinued 
by the frugality of the Court of Directors. In the park there is a menagerie, 
but it contains few animals of any sort. Horse races are run here in the cold 
season, government having disoouraged those at Calcutta . — ( M. Graham^ 

Babiiaghawt. This is now properly a part of Calcutta, being its port fmr 
the eastern inland navigation ; although within the memory of inhabitants stiH 
alive, a Jungle intervened two miles in extant, infested by tigers and odmr 
ferocious animals, by which several natives were amtually devoutoA.. A., 
remarkable change has since taken {dace, thore bong an avenue landsexM 
houses and gardens the whole way. It is situated at llie wivtim exMaity 



EEVEKUE.] OF BENGAL. 65 

two shallow, muddy, salt lakes, which at low ebb are nearly empty, but which 
when full, admit of being passed by boats and craft of considerable burthen. 
Some old inhabitants resident in Calcutta, recollect a creek which ran from 
Chandpaul Ghaut to Balliaghaut. They say that the drain from the govern- 
ment house is where it took its course, and there is a ditch to the south of the 
Beytakhana, which shews evident traces of the continuance of this creek. 
(Fifth Report, 8sc.) 


CHAPTER V. 

KEVENUE SrSTEM, LAND TAX ASSESSMENT, ZEMINDARS, REVENUE OF EACH 
DISTRICT, ABSTRACT OF THE TOTAL ANNUAL REVENUE, CHARGES AND 
DEBTS, SALES OF ESTATES, PENSIONS, KHA8 LANDS, PERPETUAL SETTLE- 
MENT, MODE OF COLLECTION, CHANGES OF RIVERS, SURVEYS, FREE LANDS, 
SAVER OR VARIABLE IMPOSTS, CUSTOMS, TOWN DUTIES, CANAL TOLLS, 
STAMP DUTIES, SALT, ABKARRT OR EXCISE, PILGRIM TAX. 

In the revenue system of Bengal, the ryot, or cultivator, is described as a 
tenant paying rent, and his superior as a landlord or landholder ; but strictly 
speaking, his payment heretofore was a contribution to the state, levied by 
officers named zemindars, standing between him and the govemntent. In the 
rule for the division of the crop, whether under special engagements, or by 
custom, their proportions are known : viz. 

Half to the landlord and half to the*tenant. 

One-third to the landlord and two-thirds to the tenant. 

The standard for the regulation of rates has been lost, but we learn from the 
observations on the revenue of Bengal, by the late James Grant, £sq., that the 
assessment was limited not to exceed in the whole a fourth part of the actual 
gross produce of the soil. In early times the demands of the Hindoo sovereigns 
were still more moderate. The JHahabharat states that the prince was to levy a 
fiftieth part of the produce of mines, and a tenth of com. Menu and other 
legislators authorize the sovereign to exact a tenth, an eighth, or a twelfth of 
grain, according to circumstances, and a sixth of the clear annual produce 
of tVBOSs 

Wift> Inspect to the much-disputed nature of landed property in Bengal, in 
VOL. K 



66 THE PROVINCE [bevekwe. 

one point of view the zemindars, as descendants of the ancient independent 
seem to have been tributary princes. In another light they appear to 
be only the officers of government. Probably their real character partook of 
both. This, however, must be obviously restricted to Rajas, who possessed 
great zemindaries. Numerous landholders subordinate to these, as well as 
others independent of them, cannot evidently be traced to a similar origin ; and 
the Mahommedan sovereigns and governors of Bengal seem to have been 
altogether indifferent with respect to the mutations of landed property, provided 
the new proprietor paid his revenue. 

The zemindars are now acknowledged jr various reasons, and from considera- 
tions of expediency, which decided the question, as proprietors of the soil. 
Yet it has been admitted from very high authority, that anciently the sovereign 
was the proprietor of the soil, that the zemindars were officers of revenue, 
justice, and police, and that their office was frequently, but not necessarily, 
hereditary. To collect and assess the contributions regulated as they were by 
local customs, or particular agreements, but varying at the same time with the 
necessities of the state, was the business of the zemindar, as a permanent, if 
not as an hereditary officer. For the due execution of his charge, he was 
checked by permanent and hereditary officers of revenue and accotmt. 

Various changes have taken place in the mode of collecting the land revenue 
of Bengal. From 1767 to 1769 the collection was entirely under the mant^e- 
ment of Mahommed Reza Khan ; Mr. Verelst, in 1769, sent supervisors into 
several districts. In 1770, two boards of revenue were appointed, one at 
Moorshedabad, and one at Patna. In 1772, Mr. Hastings, in consequence of 
instructions from home, deprived Mahommed Reza Khan of all power, and 
made Calcutta the seat of fiscal government. In 1773, the collectors were 
withdrawn, and six provincial councils appointed. In 1781, these councils 
were withdrawn, coUectors again deputed, and a supreme board of revenue 
appointed in Calcutta, which still continues. The total amount of the land 
revenue collected for a series of years shews a remaricable equality. 


In 1772 

297 lacks of current rupees. 

In 1781 

. 301 lacks. 

1773 

294 

1782 

299 

1774 

295 

1783 

300 

1775 

296 

1784 

. 303 

1776 

291 

1785 

299 

1777 

286 

1786 

. 311 

1778 

290 

1787 

298 

1779 

288 

1788 

. 315 

1780 . 

282 

1789 

. 308 



REVENUE.] 

OF BENGAL. 


67 

The following statement exhibits a correct account of the jumma, dr demand 

on account of the land revenue, and of the abkarry, or 

excise, for the year 

1814*15, restricted to the provinces of Bengal, 

Bahar, 

and that portion of 

Orissa which has since the 

first conquest been attached to the Bengal 

presidency. 




Benoal Province. 

Jumma. 


Abkarry. 

Burdwan district 

4,323,663 sicca rupees 

82,650 sicca rupees. 

Chittagong 

585,611 


8,064 

Dacca Jelalpoor 

1,289,145 

• 

29,212 

Dinagepoor 

1,766,373 

• 

10,117 

Jessore 

1,197,561 

• 

10,486 

Moorshedabad 

1,874,588 

• 

97,032 

Mymunsingh 

757,550 

• 

21,900 

Nuddea 

1,191,133 

• 

11,951 

Pumeah 

1,035,789 

• 

37,476 

Raujshahy 

1,469,814 


20,480 

Rajmahal 

57,107 

• 

3,713 

Rungpoor 

1,062,115 

• 

16,877 

Cooch Bahar . 

62,722 

• 


SUhet .... 

291,504 

• 

7,005 

Tiperah 

1,134,888 

• 

15,550 

24 Pergunnahs 

1,249,003 

• 

94,675 

Total Bengal Province 

19.338,574 


467,195 

Bahar Province. 




Bahar district 

1,748,006 

• 

318,675 

Boglipoor 

385,916 


44,569 

Dhurrumpoor 

244,756 

• 

4,005 

Sarun . . . . 

1,410,560 

• 

92,865 

Shahabad 

1,128,515 

• 

48,947 

Tirhoot . . . . 

1,234,680 

♦ 

40,037 

Total Bahar 

. 6,152,435 


549,103 

Orissa Province. 




Hidjellee district 

291,448 

. 

983 

Midnapoor . 

1,491,240 

• 

10,405 


1,782,688 


11,389 

Total Jumma 

. 274173,698 


1,027,687 


xa 





68 THE PROVINCE [REVEKtJE. 

Total land revenue for 1813-14 27,266,031 

Ditto 1814-15 . . . 27,273,898 

More in 1814-16 7,667 

Gross receipts of land revenue and sayer in 1814-15. 

Land revenue 26,696,707 

Surplus collections 1815-16 114,295 

Collections from the military bazars 7j462 

Account balances, 1813-14 1,314,1^23 

Ditto of preceding years 26,651 

Abkarry collections 1,027,687 

Sayer ditto, exclusive of abkarry 352,699 

Interest on arrears of land revenue and tuccavy advances . 156,339 

Batta fees, and other contingencies 116,872 


Sicca rupees . 28,712,026 


Charges in 1814-15. 

Ordinary charges, including embankment disbursements . 1,430,010 

Pensions and madrissa charges 461,703 

Compensation for sayer 78,662 

Loss by remittances and other contingencies . . . 34,818 


Sicca rupees . 2,004,683 
1814-15 net receipts, deducting charges . 26,707,343 

Benares Province. 

1813-14 Jumma or land revenue 4,079,124 

Gross receipts of the Benares province, 1813-14 . . . 4,662,707 

UPPER PROVINCES. 

The upper provinces subordinate to the Bengal Presidency consist of territory 
ceded to the British government by the Nabob of Oude, and since formed into 
the districts of Moradabad, Bareily, Etawah, Caunpoor, Furrudcabad, Allaha- 
bad, and Goracpoor; of the Bundelcund country ceded by the Peabwa, 
of the conquered territory between the Ganges and Jumna rivets, or ritaated on 
the right bank of the latter, ceded by Dowlet Row Sindia, and now conatitating 
the districts of Saharunpoor (northern and southern divisions), Alighur, vwd 
Agra , exclusive of the city of Delhi, and a contiguous tract of country appro- 
priated to the support of the Mog^ royal family. 



KKVZirUE.] 


OP BENGAL. 


69 


Aflahabad district 

2,801,915 

Ban^y 

2,357,996 

Cannpoor 

2,716,080 

Etawah . 

3,062,068 

Furruckabad . 

1,050,946 

Carried up 

. 11,988,005 


Brought up 11,988,005 

Goracpoor district 1,776,377 

Moradabad . 2,601,921 

Shahjehanpoor 1,146,166 

Total Lucknow rupees 17,511,469 


Revenue of conquered provinces, exclusive of Cuttack, 1813-14. 

district . . 1,425.238 Brought up 7,167,364 

Alighur . . . 3,152,309 Bundelcund . 2,885,430 

Sahanmpoor . . 2,579,817 

• Total Lucknow rupees 10,042,794 

Carried up . 7,157,364 


Delhi. — Produce of the lands assigned for the support of the 

emperor of Delhi in 1814, 1,256,505 

Cuttack. — ^The total amount of the revenue of the Cuttack district, named 

Mogulbundee, is 1,363,668 rupees; but there are other very considerable 
sources of revenue. 

The aggregate jumma of the several districts in the ceded and conquered pro- 
vinces during the whole period of the settlements which expired in 1815, 
amounted to nine croses and thirty lacks of rupees. The whole of that sum, 
with the exception of 21 lacks, had been collected prior to the 30th of 
Septmnber, 1814, leaving a deficiency of about 21 per cent, on the total demand 
for the period of the settlement in question. 

Sicca Rupees. 

It appears from a report of the Board of Revenue, that the jumma, 
or land-tax assessment, of the estates advertised for sale on 
account of arrears of revenue in 1809, amounted to . . 8,723,050 

10,015,039 

That the total jumma of the lan<^ actually sold amounted in 

1809 to 83,485 

^ 16,926 

And that the purchase money of the estates disposed of in the latter year, 

mounted to 74,140 rupees, being at the rate of 43 years purchase, reckoning 
the proprietor’s profit at ten per cent. The statements exlubited on this 

certainly presented a number of extHundinary and impminiit fiacte. 
^ land-tax to government of flKwe than ten of nqpeea. 



70 THE PROVINCE [eevenub. 

were advertised for sale in 1810, when the total balance due fircnn de&nltiii^ 
proprietors, amounted to no more than 2,467,325, and the. quantity actually 
disposed of, to only 16,926 of jumma, or land tax. 

The difference of the value of land in the different provinces, and even in 
the different districts of the same province under the Bengal Presidency, pre- 
sented likewise most remarkable and unexpected results. In Bengal the sales 
of 1810, averaged 23 years purchase, whereas in Bahar they averaged 67, and 
in Orissa 53 years purchase. In Bengal land sold for 245 years purchase, in the 
district of Rungpoor ; for 93 in Chittagong ; 46 in Burdwan ; 1 1 in Tiper^ ; 
8 in Dacca ; 4 in Nuddea ; and only one in Moorshedabad. In the province of 
Bahar land sold for 331 years purchase, in the district of Sarun; 185 in Tirhoot, 
and only 21 in Shahabad. In Dinagepoor, the portion of land actually sold Was 
so minute, that the land-tax on it did not exceed one anna (Hi.)* 
sold or rather given away for nothing. 

If this vast difference be owing entirely, or in great part, to the inequality of 
the assessment, it tends to prove that the data on which the permanent settle- 
ment was formed, viz. the average of former years* collections, without reference 
to there sources of particular districts, were most erroneous ; and this evidence 
of the error committed, strongly impresses the necessity of greater caution in 
future, and more accurate investigation before the conclusion of similar 
arrangements. 

Rupees. 

Land-tax assessment of the estates advertised for sale for the 
recovery of arrears of revenue in the provinces of Bengal, 


Bahar, and Orissa, in 1811 ...... 10,746,505 

In 1812 2,358,612 

Less . 8,387,893 

Land-tax assessment (jumma) of the estates actually sold in 1811 30,931 

Ditto in 1812 90,898 

More . 59,967 


The purchase money of the estates actually sdld in 1812, amounted to 
408,395 rupees, being at the rate of nearly 45 years purchase of the zemindars 
supposed profit, (malikhanah), and assuming, according to former computations, 
that the purchaser expect an income or interest of ten p^ cent, on ^ir prin- 
cipal, this averse would indicate, that the medium of the net uuxnne 
proprietors is in the proportion of 45 to 100 of the jumma, or luid-tax, paid to 
government. 



REVENUE.] OF BENGAL. 

71 

The total amount of pensions and charitable allowances, payable from the 
treasuries of the collectors, in the year 1814, according to the book of establish- 

ment for that year was as follows : 


Bengal districts, per annum .... 

. 242,444 nipees. 

Bahar ditto 

216,781 

Orissa ditto, including Cuttack 

20,130 

Benares ditto 

164,194 

Upper Provinces 

. 1,255,216 


Rupees 1,898,767 

This amount, however, includes political stipends, payable by the collectors, 
amounting to 662,735 rupees per annum, and also some pensions of a miscel- 
laneous nature, to individuals in the service of government. 

Khas Lands. — ^The ofhcial accounts of 1813, state the jumma, or land 
assessment of estates held khas, or let in farm, in the provinces of Bengal, 
Bahar, and Orissa (exclusive of Calcutta) as follows : 

Sicca Rupees. 

Jumma of the khas estates, chiefly the property of government . 155,648 

Ditto of the farmed estates 956,065 

The latter, however, includes 363,876, the assessment of the estates of minors, 
and other disqualified landholders, under the custody of the court of wards. 
Both statements also include, besides the estates of proprietors who have pre- 
ferred receiving a fixed amount of malikhana, or allowance out of their estates, 
to the contingency of profit or loss arising from an engagement for the land 
revenue, the khas lands in the Moorshedabad, and other districts, which are the 
immediate property of government, and rated in the records of the Board of 
Revraue at near tluree lacks of rupees per annum. 

An Account of the Annual Revenues and Charges of Bengal for the year 1816-17. 


Revenue. 

Mint duties 435,187 

Post office collections . . . . ' 500,120 

Stamp duties 1,214,823 

Judicial fines, fees, and licenses for the sale of spirituous liquors, kc. 7 13,552 

Customs in Bahar and Orissa 4,955,626 

Land and sayer revenues of ditto 35,545,337 

Benares revalues, customs and judicial fees, kc 6,333,055 

: Ceded provinces in Oude, 1801, revalues, customs, kc. . . . 23,288,085 


Carried orer . 72,085,785 



72 THE PROVINCE [revekub. 

Brought forwtrd 72,986,765 
Conquered provinces, 1803-4 revenues, customs, &c. 17,585,786 

Sale oi salt 17,131,682 

Sale of opium 9,416,539 

Marine receipts for pilotage, &c 395,402 

Military — Nagpoor subsidy 379,913 


Total current rupees 117,895,107 


£11,789,511 
Deduct charges 8,025,980 

Net revenue £3,763,531 


Charges. 

Mint charges 217,240 

Post office charges 450,329 

Charges of the civil establishment 5,299,131 

Stamp office charges 477,312 


Total civil charges 6,444,012 

Judicial charges ; viz. Supreme Court of Judicature and law charges 

incidental to its establishment 636,613 

Charges of the Sudder and Zillah courts and police establishment 
in Bengal, Bahar, and Orissa 5,933,177 


Total judicial charges 6,569,790 


Charges for collecting the customs of Bengal, Bahar, and Orissa 
Charges on the revenues of Bengal, Bahar, and Orissa, including 

pends to the Nabob and his family, &c 

Benares charges : collecting the revenues and customs, judicial, 

charges 

Oude: charges collecting ditto 
Conquered provinces : cWges collecting ditto 
Salt advances and chaiges 
Opium ditto 
Military charges . 

Building and fortifications 
Marine charges 


512,860 


sti- 

&c. 


4,963,003 

1,746,916 

3,674,468 

7,947,221 

4,761,455 

1,185,490 

40,484,699 

696,534 

1,275,451 


Cttmt rupees 80,259,798 





73 


EEVEKUE.] OF BENGAL. 

Eeg^ter, and odier debts of the Bengal presidency in 

1816-17 ; bearing interest £26,188,895 

Arrears of debts of ditto ; not bearing interest . . . 3,796,295 

Total Bengal debts 1816-17 £29,980,190 

Detail of Debit bearing Interest. 

Loans, Ac. at 6 per cent. , . 208,899,977 Sicca Rupees. 

Ditto from the Nabob of Oude ditto 10,382,093 

Deposits at 6 per cent. . . 57,135 

The Bhow Begum’s stipend fund 5,684,554 

Promissory and treasury notes at 

6 per cent. . 699,477 

225,723.236 

Add 16 percent. 36,115,718 

261,838,954 or £26,183,895 

AbMract of the Revenues, Charges, and Debt of India, from 1793 to 1806. 



Revenue. 

Charges. 

Amount of Debt. 

1793-4 

£ 8,276,770 

£ 6,066,923 

£ 7,971,668 

1798-9 

8,652,032 

8,417,812 

12,811,863 

1802-3 

13,464,537 

11,043,108 

19,523,737 

1805-6 

15,217,516 

15,561,380 

28,538,804 


A General Abstract Ttew of the actual Revenues and Charges of India for three 

years, viz. 

Revenues. 

1814-15 1815-16 1816-17 

Bengal . . . £11,089,823 £11,243,273 £11,789,511 

Madras . . 5,322,164 5,104,798 5,339,448 

Bombay . . . 819,204 818,815 860,404 

Bencoolen . 11,772 10,755 12,581 

Prince of Wales Island 54,316 53,868 54,861 

Total £17,297,279 £17,231,509 £18,056,805 

Charges. 

1814-15 1815 16 1816-17 

Bengal . . . £7.373,005 £7,854,681 £8,025,980 

Madias . . 5,134,246 5,265,802 5,103,194 

Bombay . . . 1,675,200 1,937,430 1,902,4^ 

60,540 72,792 66,547 

PriaoeofWakslslimd 117,711 119^684 109*662 

£14^,702 115,260*389 £15^06,7# 



-^4 THE PROVINCE [rievenoe. 

The above statement is extracted from the accounts laid before parliament in 
1819 ; the following abstract is from a statement compiled in Beng^, and comes 
dowh to a later date, viz. Indian revenues for 1817-18. Sicca rupees 166,871,060 

Ditto charges ditto .... 162,700,967 

Surplus 4,170,100 


In the beginning of 1819, the gross addition to the territorial resources of the 
Indian governments, from acquisitions made during and subsequent to the Pii^- 
darry war, was estimated as follows : — 

Sicca Rupees^' 


Acquisitions from Nagpoor ...... 2,247,200 

Ditto Holkar 1,000,000 

Ditto Saugur 500.000 

Ditto Ajmeer 400,000 

Ditto Tributes 1,500,000 


5,647,200 

Gross estimate as likely to accrue from the Poona dominions 8,7 1 1 ,763 

Total addition 14,368,963 


Account of the Territorial Debts owing at the Three Presidencies, viz. 



Bengal. 

Madras. 

Bombay. 



31 Jan. 1818. 

31 Oct. 1817. 

31 Jan. 1818. Total. 

Debts at 6 per cent. . 

£20,208,352 

£2,358,183 

£432,188 

£29,068,723 

Ditto at 8 per cent. . 

13,444 

17,600 

— 

31,044 

Ditto at 9 per cent. . 

— 

— 

80,031 

80,831 

Total debts bearing interest £20,281 ,796 

£2,375,783 

£51^,019 

£29,170,698 

Debts not bearing interest 

3,938,125 

821,344 

254,070 

5,013,539 

Total debts in India 

£30,219,921 

£3,197,127 

n67,089 

£34,184,137 


In 1793 the territorial revenue of the Bengal province, which had before fluc- 
tuated, was permanently and irrevocably fixed, during the administration of Lord 
Cornwallis, at a certain valuation of the property moderately assessed ; but this 
permanent settlement has not yet been introduced into the territories obtained 
by cession from the Nabob of Oude or by conquest from the Mtdiarattas. The 
mighty mass of papers, which the agitation of this question introduced ai&<mg 
the Company’s records, proves the ability, labour, and anxiety, with whidi it was 
discussed. In the ceded provinces the public reveatw has aiway^s been iatiidhe* 



»£rENCE.] OF BENGAL. J5 

toriljr collected, if compared with its collection only a few years ago in the lower 
districts, even under all the advantages arising from a permanent settiement. 
For a considerable period of time, subsequent to the conclusion of that setde^ 
ment, the ultimate arrears stood in a much higher ratio to the jumma, than they 
did in the ceded provinces a few years after their acquisition, nor was it until 
the year 1800, that they were reduced within a moderate compass. Hence a 
new argument arises against a premature settlement in perpetuity of the Upper 
provinces, which under their present constitution are sufficiently prosperous, the 
cultivation extending, and the population increasing and becoming daily more 
contented and tractable, all of which has taken place under a system of tempo- 
rary leases, and in spite of adverse and precarious seasons. 

The Mahommedans from the beginning of their power employed the Persian 
language in the affairs of government, and notwithstanding its clumsy and cum- 
bersome aritlunetic, in the collection also of the revenue. This practice aided 
them in maintaining their authority, and enabled them, insteadof blindly depend- 
ing on native functionaries, to look into the conduct and details of public 
business, as well as to keep intelligible registers of the income and expenditure, 
of the state. The native Hindoos, finding that a knowledge of the kmguage of 
government was necessary to every concern of revenue or justice, made exertions 
to acquire it, and in process of time became teachers of it throughput the whole 
Mogul empire. At present, considering the very indifferent character of the 
native revenue officers, it is a just subject of regret that more European agency 
has not been devoted to the internal administration of the country. If the di- 
mensions of the different districts, and the miiltifarious duties of the collectors 
be duly considered, especially in Benares and the Upper provinces, it will appear 
manifest that these officers can only inspect much the greater portion of businen 
through the medium of native servants, that is to say, through the falsest medium 
possible. On the other hand it is equally evident, that the most solid improve- 
ments may be effected, when due attention can be given to them by capable and 
efficient European functionaries. 

Amrnig the various pretexts adopted by the land owners of this province lor. 
reducing the revenue to a trifle, one of the most common and successful is, to 
write down a large portion of the estate as destroyed by rivers. This ftumishes 
a good plea not only for a deduction in the revenue, but keeps open a claim for 
the lant^ wMch afterwards might be recovered from the injury they had sustained, 
la many instances this has succeeded; as no additional revenue is taken when a 
new lands to a aenundary, a gradual diminution of the a^ptegateriiwenue 
mast be tl^rclbre always taking jdaoe. Hence also or^;mate vvAmi and pro- 
tiaeted disputes between contiguoin pro{»rietor8, withmin^auits in the onirts 

.lit'' r.. 



76 THE PROVINCE 

of law, which usually for many years prevent the cultivation of new formed 
lands, although remarkably productive when under tillage. Government is con* 
sequently in every point of view a sufferer by these irregularities in the courses 
and channels of rivers ; and all zemindars, as a general rule, complain of en* 
croachments on the part of their neighbours. Under these circumstances the 
most substantial advantages would be derived from regular surveys of each 
district respectively, undertaken by professional persons and executed in a sci* 
entific manner. They are obviously calculated to ascertain and fix the boundaries 
of estates, and to afford the requisite data for judging of various other points 
involved in the settlement of lands, whether permanent or temporary. Suiih 
surveys, when completed, would in their operation tend eventually to prevent 
the sanguinary affrays regarding the disputed boundaries, while they would 
greatly facilitate the partition of estates, the difficulties attendant on which have 
been long felt as a serious evil. 

In Bengal, the class of needy proprietors of land is very numerous ; but even 
the greatest landlords are not in a situation to allow that indulgence and 
accommodation to their tenants which might be expected on viewing the extent 
of their income. Responsible to government for a tax originally calculated at 
ten>elevenths of the expected rents of their estates, they have no probable sur- 
plus above their expenditure to compensate for their risk. Any accident, any 
calamity, may involve a zemindar in difficulties from which no economy or at- 
tention can retrieve him. Prior to 1790, half the revenues of Bengal were paid 
by six large zemindars, viz. Rajshahy, Burdwan, Dinagepoor, Nuddea, Bir- 
boom, and Calcutta. 

Free lands are distinguished according to their appropriations, for Brahmins, 
bards, encomiasts, ascetics, priests, and mendicants, or for a provision for 
several public officers. The greatest part of the present free lands in Bengal 
Proper, were originally granted in small portions of waste ground. The more 
extensive tracts of free land are managed in the same mode as estates assessed 
for revenue, and tiie subject will be adverted to in each district respectively. 

The sayer revenue of the nature of land rent, consists of ground rent for tlm 
sites of houses and gardens, revenue drawn from fruit trees, pastures and mathes* 
and rent of fisheries. Other articke of myer, cfdlected within the vdlage, have 
been abolished ; such for example as market tolls, and personal taxM. Qnmd 
rents were never generally levied from mdtivators engaged in husbandry. No 
hranch of administration requires more prudence and ciEcumspection, or a more 
accurate knowledge of the temper and character of the peo)^ of Indi^ tluui the 
impoution of new taxes: and it is a prmci]de hi|^ imporiatit to be kqpit in 

view, that when the state of the public resouioes calk for im toenato of 



CUSTOMS.] OF BENGAL. 77 

It is decidedly preferable to seek that increase in the renewal of old> than in the 
establishment of new taxes. The civil and domestic usages of the natives are 
so mudb interwoven with their religious rites, and they are so particularly alive 
to every innovation or departure from established custom, that in fixing a tax 
on articles of general consumption, it is not to be considered whether it be more 
or less oppressive than a tax directly collected from the individual, but 
whether it be so felt by him. By an impost on articles of consumption, the 
individual is compelled by his necessities or inclinations to the use of it, thus 
gradually and almost imperceptibly contributing to the necessities of the state, 
while a personal demand on him for the payment of a sum much less than the 
aggregate of what he indirectly contributes, may be considered by him an 
extortion, which he is warranted in evading if he can. Owing also to the 
abuses inseparable from all transactions carried on by native officers with 
small salaries, placed beyond the inspection and controul of the Company’s 
European servants, the community, when a duty is laid on, have in general to 
pay twice as^much as ever finds its way into the public treasury. 

A poll tax, called jaziyeh, was imposed by the Khalif Omar, on all persons 
not of the Mahommedan faith. The Musselmaun conquerors of Hindostan 
imposed it on the Hindoos as infidels, but it was abolished by the Emperor 
Acber. At a subsequent period Aurengzebe attempted to revive it, but 
without success. 

Customs. — Gross and net receipts of the government customs 
and town duties, including the ceded and conquered provinces 
and Benares, as well as the lower districts under the Bengal 


Presidency. For 1812 5,776,931 

For 1813 6,111,185 


Increase . 334,224 

Charges for 1812 784,868 

Ditto for 1813 821,423 

Increase . 36,555 

Btatanmnt of the collection of the government customs for 1815-16. 

Lower Prmmces. Rupees. Upper Prwinces Rupees. 

Calcutta . . 941,077 Cawnpoor . . 370,788 

Patim . . . 404,764 Fumickabud 183,069 

... 200,679 Allahabad . . 266,636 


OuriedoTer . 1,546,520 


Carried over . ^,493 



ra 

THE PROVINCE 

[customs 

Lmver Provinces. 

Rupees. 

Uppar Provinces. 

Rsqiees. 

Brought over 

1,546,520 

Brought 

over . 820,493 

Chittagong 

14,251 

Bareily 

. 176,657 

Moorshedabad 

680,767 

Agra 

. 764,522 

Hooghly 

376,271 

Meerut 

. 241,283 

Cuttack 

21,027 

Mirzapoor 

. 163,577 



Benares 

. 100,222 



Ghazipoor 

• . 196,390 



Total . 6,091,888 

The following is a memorandum of the net collection 

of the town duties ii 


1815-16. 



Rupees. 


Rupees. 


Rupees. 

Calcutta 

109,080 

Furruckabad 

21,136 

Benares 

65,677 

Moorshedabad 37,393 

Allahabad . 

10,482 

Etawah 

2,935 

Dacca 

7,117 

Bareily 

19,590 

Goruckpoor 

5,942 

Patna 

22,647 

Agra . . 

17,423 

Moradabad 

4,231 

Chittagong 

182 

Meerut . . 

6,231 

Alighur 

6,272 

Cawnpoor 

. 9,818 

Mirzapoor . 

61,363 

Bundelcund 

3,777 





Total . 

410,296 


Besides the above, town duties are levied at the following places. 


Midnapoor, 

Nattore, 

Pumeah, 

Chupra, 

Burdwan, 

Dinagepoor, 

Silhet, 

Arra, 

Hooghly, 

Comillah, 

Boglipoor, 

Guy«» 

Kishenagur, 

Jessore, 

Nuseerabad, 

Rungpoor, 

Muzufferpoor, 

Ghazipoor. 


Net collections on acount of the several tolls specified below, for 1815-16. 

Tolley’s Nullah , Rupees 66,288 

Balliaghaut Canal 

Tumlook Canal 

Matabanga and other rivers in the Nuddea district . . . 84,819 

The net amount collected on account of stamp duties m 18I6-I6, 

was, in the Lower Provinces 750,698 

Ihtto m the Upper provinces . . . . . . . 196^947 


Total . 941,646 



coiTom.] OP BENGAL. 79 

N«t ncdpts in th6 salt department, after deducting advance and charges ; 

In 1813<14 Rupees 9,637,709 

In 1814.16 . 9,907,100 

10,250,614 

10,651,236 

after deducting a payment of eight lacks of rupees to the French government. 
The annual (Quantity of salt disposed of at the public sales during the above 
period was from 42 to 45 lacks of maunds. 

In addition to the duties levied by the justices of peace for the town of 
Calcutta, the general collection on account of the abkarry mahal, or excise, in 


the Upper and Lower Provinces, for 1815-16, was as follows : 

Rupees. 

On spirits manufactured at the Presidency distilleries . 436,380 

On the sale of spirits beyond the precincts of ditto . 1,613,040 

On rum made according to the European process . . 11,490 

On puchwy 67,012 

On taree 168,705 

On drugs, exclusive of opium .... . 203,632 

On the retail sale of opium 19,730 

Duty advanced on abkarry licences in lieu of security . 4,284 

Abkarry fines and forfeitures 7,637 

Gross collections 2,531,910 

Deduct charges and commission 232,268 

Net collections . 2,299,642 


In addition to the sources of revenue above mentioned, a tax on Hindoo 
pilgrims is levied by the British government in continuance of former usage, at 
the following places, viz. 

Gaya, in the province of Bahar. 

Jttggemauth, in the province of Orissa. 

Alhdiabad, at the confiux of the Ganges and Jumna. 

(Pt^lic documents^ manuscript and printed; Cokbrooke, Harrington^ Major 
Scott, ImtenafU Irvine, F. Buchanan, Ernst, S^'C. ^c. S^c.) 



80 


THE PROVINCE 


[oOVKEltlCEKT. 


CHAPTER VI. 

NATURE OF THE GOVERNMENT, COURTS OF LAW, STATIONS OF MAGISTRATES, 
LAW PROCEEDINGS, DACOITT OR GANG ROBBERY, PREVAILING CRIMES AND 
OFFENCES, POLICE SYSTEM, CHILD MURDER, PERJURY, LANDHOLDERS, 
LITIGATION, RELATIVE SITUATION OF THE NATIVES AS REGARDS THE 
BRITISH GOVERNMENT, CIVIL SERVANTS, MILITARY ESTABLISHMENT NATIVE 
AND EUROPEAN. * 

The civil and military government of the territories under the Bragal Presi- 
dency is vested in a Governor-General and three counsellors. Vacancies in the 
council are supplied by the Court of Directors, from the civil servants of not 
less than 12 years standing. For the administration of justice throughout the 
provinces subject to the presidency, there are in the civil and criminal depart- 
ments one supreme court, stationed at Calcutta. 

Six courts of appeal and circuit, attached to six different divisions, viz. 
Calcutta, Moorshedabad, Dacca, Patna, Benares, and Bareily. 

Forty-six inferior courts, or rather magistrates, stationed in so many different 
districts and cities, viz. 


Agra 

Chittagong 

Jungle Mahals 

Ramghur 

Allahabad 

Cuttack 

Meerut 

Rungpoor 

Alighur 

Dacca 

Midnapoor 

Sarun 

Backergunge Dinagepoor 

Mirzapoor 

Sbahabad 

Bahar 

Etaweh 

Moorshedabad 

Saharunpoor 

Bareily 

Fumickabad 

Moradabad 

Shahjehanpoor 

Benares 

Goruepoor 

Mymunsingh 

Silhet 

Birboom 

Hooghly 

Nuddea 

Tiperah 

Bundelcund 

Jessore 

Pumeah 

Tirhoot 

Burdwan 

Caunpoor 

Juanpoor 

Rajshahy 

24 Pergunnahs 


A ^ 

The city courts are Benares, Dacca, Moorshedabad and Patna. 

The courts of circuit consist of three judges with an amistant, t(^;ether with 
native dSicers both Mahommedan and Hindoo. The judffes make th^ ciroiuts 
at stated periods, and hold also regular and frequent jail deUverimi. Tbef try 
criminal offences according to the Mahommedan law ; but when the sentence is 
capital, or imprisonment is awarded beyond a deffned pefiod, it does take ef* 
feet until ii^neceiveB coi^rmation from the supeiiot criminal coBHt steti en e d in 
cutta, named the Nizamut Adawlet. The pvmctpid bushMss of thisneiirt i| Id 



hA-W FB0CEED1NG&.] OF BENGAL. 81 

triiUs ; but it is iu no case permitted to aggravate the severity of the sen- 
tence. 

In the provincial districts, the officer who, in his criminal capacity, has the ap- 
pellation of magistrate, is also the civil judge of the district or city in which he 
resides. He tries all suits of a civil nature, provided the cause of action have 
originated, the property concerned be situated, or the defendant be resident, 
within his jurisdiction. To try suits of a small limited amount, the judge may 
appoint native commissioners, from whose decisions an appeal lies to the judge ; 
with a few exceptions the decisions of the judge are appealable, to the provin- 
cial courts of appeal, within the jurisdiction of which he resides. Each distinct 
judge has a register, with one or more assistants, from among the junior civil 
servants, and each court is provided with natives duly qualified to expound the 
Hindoo and Mahommedan law. In criminal matters, the magistrates of districts 
are vested with powers of apprehending and examining all offenders. On slight 
offences they may pass and execute sentence ; in cases of greater atrocity it is 
their business to secure the supposed delinquents for trial before the court of 
circuit, and this is effected either by committing or holding to bail. Each 
or district, is subdivided into portions about 20 miles square ; and in each of 
these, a darogah, or head police officer, is established, with armed followers, 
who is empowered to apprehend on a written charge, and to take security in 
case of a bailable offence for appearance before the magistrate. The average size 
of a district under the Bengal presidency, may be taken at 6000 square miles ; 
but in particular instances the dimensions vary extremely : Burdwan contains 
only 2400, and Boglipoor 8200 square miles. 

The ultimate court of appeal, in civil matters, sits in the city of Calcutta, and 
is styled the Sudder Dewanny Adawlet. To this court all causes respecting per- 
sonal property beyond 5000 rupees value, arc appealable : with regard to real 
property, it is ascertained by certain rules differing according to the nature and 
tenure of the property. From this court an appeal lies to the king in council, if 
tile value of the property concerned amounts to £5000 sterling. 

Under the Mahommedan government suitors pleaded their own causes, and the 
practice cimtinued until 1793; when regular native advocates were appointed. 
These pleaders are chosen out of the Mahommedan college at Calcutta, and Hin- 
doo college at Benares ; and the rate of fees is fixed by public regulation. This 
institution insures suitors against negligence or misconduct on the part, either <ff 
i;tiie judge, or of his native assistant ; the advocates being often as conversant in 
business of the court as either of these officers. As an ultimate security Ibr 
phe purity of justice provisions have beejn made against tiie conuption cl tiM>sc 
administer it. The receiving of a sum of money or otii^ valuable gtit, mr 



THE PROVINCE 


82 


[law phoceedings. 


presejnt, or under colour thereof, by a British subject in the service of the Com* 
pany, is deemed to be taken by extortion, and is a misdemeanor at law. 

Written pleadings in the native languages have been introduced, for the pur- 
pose of bringing litigation to a point, and enforcing in legal proceedings as much 
precision as the habits of the people will admit. Before this modification, the 
charge and defence consisted of confused oral complaints, loudly urged on one 
side, and as loudly reiterated on the other. In receiving evidence great indul- 
gence is granted to the scruples of caste, and the prejudices s^nst the public ajl)- 
pearance of females so prevalent in eastern countries. 

Select cases, civil and criminal, are annually published, which reports, by dif- 
fusing a knowledge of the legal principles established in the courts of the Suddet 
Dewanny and Sudder Nizanut Adawlets, are productive of essential benefit in 
the general administration of justice, and tend to prevent litigation. Indeed, it 
is impossible in this, or any other country, to maintain tribunals for the investiga- 
tion of all the endless disputes and differences which arise between individuals, 
in all the complicated concerns of private life. It is only by the establishment 
fixed and definitive principles of adjudication, and by afibrding the community 
some convenient medium for ascertaining these principles, and of applying them 
to their own affairs, that the mass of litigation, which threatens to render the ad- 
ministration of justice a task exceeding the powers of those on whom it devolves, 
can be kept within any reasonable bounds. This is eminently the case in the 
British isles, where the number of judges, considered with reference to the wealth 
and population, is extremely limited ; but where individuals seldom experience 
any difficulty in obtaining the legal information necessary to prevent their expo- 
sing themselves to the embarrassment and expense attendant on the prosecution 
of suits at law. At present the principal objects to be accomplished in Bengal, 
are the means of defining the right of Ae peasantry, and of adjusting, with fiwi- 
lity, such differences as arise between landlord and tenant. 

The Mahommedan law continues ostensibly the ground work of the criminal 
jurisprudence of the country ; but although the name and many of the external 
forms of that code be retmned, its execution is so corrected in essentials, that it 
may more properly be regarded as the administration of British criminal justice. 
At present, the system of criminal law, as promulgated in the provinces subordi- 
nate to the Bengal Presidency, is, in reality, a system of jurisprudence founded 
on the natural principles of justice ; which form, or ought to form, die base 
every criminal code. In civil matters, the Hindoos and Mahommedaos su^ta&* 
daily enjoy their respective usages. The prejudices of both are treated uritii bfc» 
dulgence, ^ the respect wMch Asiatic manners enjoins to womch ^ Whit* 
scrupulously enforced. 



OF BENGAL. 


83 


DACOITY.] 

In the crimmal department, no offence has occupied so much of the time and 
attention of the government, and strenuous exertions of its servants, as dacoity, 
or gang robbery ; “which, for an astonishing period of time, baffled the united ef- 
forts of every department of the service, but at length, by unremitting persever- 
ance and vigilance, if not wholly eradicated, has been greatly diminished. Treat- 
ing of this subject, generally, it may be observed, that gang robbery, the scourge 
under which Bengal suffered from the first acquisition of the province, until it 
reached its acme in 1807, had in 1814 been nearly suppressed. Robberies, in 
the ordinary sense of the expression, are still committed ; but dacoity, consi- 
dered as a crime distinct from all others by its peculiar malignity, and by invol- 
ving the perpetrators in other crimes of a most atrocious and sanguinaiy charac- 
ter, has been nearly extinguished. This great object was not accomplished by 
any precipitate or arbitrary measures, or by any complicated machinery — ^but by 
the selection of able and zealous magistrates, by limiting the authority of the na- 
tive oflScers within the narrowest bounds compatible with the efficiency of their 
offices, and by occasionally strengthening the already existing European and na- 
tive establishments. The Sunderbunds have always been regarded as peculiarly 
adapted for the reception and concealment of river pirates, yet even in this laby- 
rinth of wood, water, and rank vegetation, great progress has been made in the 
extirpation of gang robbery. 

In the ceded and conquered provinces, although less progress has apparently 
been made in the suppression of crimes than in the old territories, yet manifest 
traces are perceptible of the influence of a regular system of civil polity on the 
great mass of the people. On the first acquisition of these provinces, one of the 
greatest evils was the private war which the proprietors of estates and indivi- 
duals carried on against each other. Vindictive assassination, for real or imagi- 
nary injuries, was also a crime of frequent occurrence ; and both these enormi- 
ties had their origin in the same cause ; viz. the weakness of the preceding go- 
vernments, and the want of regular tribunals to take cognizance of wrongs com- 
mitted by individuals on their fellow subjects. Considerable progress has been 
made towards the suppression of both these crimes, but murders perpetrated by 
the class of people named thugs, still continue in spite of the increased exertions 
of the police. In the Upper Provinces, highway robbery and gang robbery are 
seldom known to prevail together ; the former usually commencing when an ef- 
fectual check has been given to the latter. 

The prevention of incursions from the independent states, lying on an open 
and extended frontier, has always been a task of peculiar difficulty — and to this 
species of annoyance the district of Rungpoor is still greatly exposed ; as is 

M 2 



THE PROVINCE 


84 


[pOliCE. 


also that of Purneah to incursions of banditti from the Morung. On the side of 
Agm such offences have become less frequent, and a check has been given to 
them along the frontier of the present Nabob of Oude, who has cheerfully se- 
conded the efforts of the British government towards the suppression of these 
marauders. 

With respect to the more ordinary offences of robbery, house breaking and 
theft, they appear still to exist to a lamentable degree ; yet on the whole are less 
prevalent than formerly. In consequence of the introduction of the chokeydatry 
sj’^stem (municipal and private watchmen), singularly good order has been esta- 
blished in the city of Dacca, and nearly corresponding effects produced by tiie 
same means in the cities of Moorshedabad and Patna. Considerable progrei^s 
has also been made in establishing similar arrangements at the stations of the 
magistrates in all the Bengal districts ; but it has been too much the practice to 
impose duties upon public officers in the judicial department, far exceeding the 
utmost exertion of their natural, or of any human faculties. As the police im- 
proves, it is probable a greater proportion of the crimes perpetrated are brought 
under the cognizance of the judicial authorities, than while it was in a more in- 
efficient state ; much may also be frequently done by a magistrate, with very lit- 
tle to shew for it : and notwithstanding his efforts, the suppression of public crimes 
may for a length of time, baffle every exertion. 

Although it must be admitted, that great progress has been made in the esta- 
blishment of a solid and efficient system of police, the commission of public 
crimes, however, still exists in a degree, which requires the utmost efforts of the 
public officers to suppress, and in their suppression, the credit of the British go- 
vernment is implicated. The progress already made in the reform of the police, 
affords the most substantial ground for hope, that the commission of crimes of 
enormity may be confined within as narrow limits as in any other country of the 
same extent and population ; nor can too much solicitude be shewn in securing 
the persons and property of the natives, now wholly dependent on us for protec- 
tion, against their own evil propensities. 

Constituted as the government now is, the zemindars could not with justice 
be made responsible for the value of property pliinH<>rPiJ ©n their estates, unless 
they were authorized and required to entertain establishments for the seizure of 
public offenders ; an arrangement which would in effect transfer the disrgs of 
the police to the zemindars, and i^;ain open a door to all the abuses cotnmitted 
by them in former times, when they were entrusted with the police cff thshr re- 
spective estotes. At present it scarc^y ever happeiw tiiat the zcmiiidars re^ 
the execution of a decree of the civil court, or Bssemhle their people affeiwfrde 
for the purpose of fighting and dispossessing the petm in wh^ finwiir the de- 



CHILD MURDER.] OF BENGAL. 85 

mUm has been awarded. By this class, however, the large portion of lands, al‘ 
lotted during the Mogul government for the maintenance of village watchmen, 
have been long ago resumed, and have wholly disappeared from the public re- 
cords. It is consequently to be apprehended, that if waste lands were again set 
apait for that purpose, a similar absorption would take place, as soon as they had 
attained a certain stage of cultivation. 

There is no crime more frequent in Bengal and Hindostan, generally, than the 
murdering of children for the sake of the gold and silver ornaments, with which, 
in spite of every exhortation on the part of the British government and its func- 
tionaries, they persevere in adorning them. These horrid crimes are usually 
perpetrated by friends, neighbours, and relations, unable to resist the tempting 
opportunity ; and the parents would almost appear voluntarily to dress out their 
child for a victim. The frequent occurrence of the crime at different periods, 
attracted the attention of government, and the courts of circuit were consulted 
as to the possibility of suggesting any preventive expedient, that would not ex- 
cite dissatisfaction among the natives by such interference with their domestic 
usages ; but nothing could be devised, except increased vigilance in detecting, 
and rigorous enforcement and publicity of the punishment. 

In 1813, great progress had been made, and a vast expense incurred, in put- 
ting the jails of the ceded and conquered provinces into that condition which is 
essential to the health and reasonable comfort of the prisoners. The following 
statement will shew the number of convicts and other description of prisoners* 
in confinement on the 31st of December, 1814, in the several district and city 
jails of the lower provinces. 


Calcutta division. 


Moorshedabad division. 


Burdwan 

7G1 

Boglipoor 

307 

Jungle Mahals 

371 

Pumeah 

591 

Midnapoor . 

706 

Dinagepoor . 

1,039 

Cuttack 

885 

Rungpoor 

666 

Jessore 

573 

Rajshahy 

717 

Nuddea 

1,119 

Birbhoom 

391 

Hooghly 

448 

City of Moorshedabad 

451 

Chandemagore 

157 

i.ii 

24 Pergunnahs 

246 

Total 

4,102 

Calcutta Suburbs . 

503 



AUypoor jail 

905 




Total 6,974 



THE PROVINCE 


[DAcom. 


86 


Patxa Division. 


Dacca Division. 


' • Ramghur 

. 478 

Mymunsingh . 

. 523 

Bahar 

. 523 

Silhet 

232 

Tirhoot 

. 1,012 

Tiperah . 

842 

Sarun 

. 532 

Chittagong 

254 

Shahabad 

. 392 

Backergunge 

407 

City of Patna 

. 623 

Dacca Jelalpoor 

428 


Total 3,460 

City of Dacca . 

. 349j 



Total 3,035 i 


Grand Total 16,571 


It had been often remarked, that the public atrocities which formerly prevailed 
could never have been suffered to continue, had the supreme government pos- 
sessed an accurate knowledge of the extent of the evil. To remedy this defect, 
and ensure speedy intelligence, superintendants of the police for the upper and 
lower provinces were appointed in 1812. These officers visit each district in 
rotation and report of the state of its inhabitants ; so that the Governor General 
in Council cannot remain long uninformed of the prevalence of public crimes in 
any part of the country, and with that knowledge, the remedy best adapted for 
the evil can of course be with promptitude applied. 

As dacoits, or gang robbers, occupy so prominent a part in the criminal juris- 
prudence of Bengal, a few more observations towards the developement of their 
character, may be usefully employed. Fifty years ago the rivers of Bengal were 
nearly impassable to unarmed boats, on account of the immense bands of pirates 
who roamed unchecked through every part of the province ; at present, except 
occasionally in some of the large rivers near the sea, the inland navigation is 
wholly free from every perilous obstniction. Among the dacoits in Bengal many 
instances occur of whole families practising robbery from generation to genera- 
tion, and individuals among them boast that* their progenitors were hanged or 
died in perj^etual imprisonment. Their leaders succeed each other like officers 
of a regular establishment, and being all predestinarians, they are indifferent as 
to the result of their hazardous career. Nor do they attach oblo<|uy to the 
of dacoit : in that character they are something ; as labourers or cultivators 
nothing. Besides this, they to the last entertain hopes of escaping punishment, 
either by flying for concealment to the creeks, woods, jungles, or low ifilmdi 
overgrown with rank weeds, or when captured, by tht ex p ec tation that, the terror 
their name inspires will prevent evidence from appearing agahnt When 

they are at last brought to the fetal tree, ffie dacoits who sufier oapihd pimidi* 



CMi«8.] OF BENGAL. 87 

ment meet their fate with the greatest sang froid, and the exhibition is coH' 
sidered by the lookers on as a sort of gratis entertainment. The penitence and 
contrition shewn by criminals in England when the sentence is on the point of 
execntion, and which makes such a serious and salutary impression on the spec- 
tators, is never observed in this country, where in fact the felons are much more 
afraid of transportation than of death. 

In Bengal robbers are not shunned and hated as in Europe. On the contrary, 
they have homes, often land and cattle, and are not only associated with, but 
are frequently men of influence in their villages, although their profession be 
known. This can only be ascribed to a general absence of the moral principle, 
which applies to Mahommedans as well as Hindoos, the lower classes of the 
former having evidently adopted many of the worst parts of Hindoo idolatry. 
The dacoits of both castes, are not only unrestrained by terrors of conscience, but 
affect to sanctify their execrable deeds by offerings and invocations to the goddess 
Cali ; and that human blood is now seldom shed on these occasions, is to be 
attributed to the introduction of the British system of police, which, with all its 
defects, is perfection compared with that which preceded it. The great mass of 
the Bengalese are certainly not constitutionally brutal or inexorable; on the con- 
trary, they are naturally mild and placable ; yet it must be admitted that the 
criminal records of the province will furnish such instances of cruelty and fero- 
city in dacoits, as perhaps the history of no country in Europe can parallel. 

To the universal prevalence of perjury may also be attributed the long con- 
tinuance and existing frequency of gang robbery ; and to such a pitch of shame- 
less audacity has this crime long attained, that the judge is often obliged to 
investigate the character of the witness with more anxiety than that of 
criminal. In 1800 , a zemindarry dewan, and by caste a Brahmin, after having 
circumstantially sworn to the nature, number, and authors of the wounds inflicted 
on two of his cutcherry (ofiice) servants, alleged to have been murdered in an 
attempt to dispossess him of the cutcherry, scarcely blushed when the two men 
were produced alive and unhurt in court, and merely pleaded in extenuation, 
that if he had not sworn as instructed he would have lost his place. The little 
obligation attached by the natives to an oath, appears in a great degree to pro 
oeed from the nature of their superstition, the degraded attributes of their deities, 
as well as the total absence of moml instruction from their system of education, 
and its n^ssarian tendency. Hence originates the general exclamadon of 
^.o^minals when Convicted of murder, that it was their destiny, and they se^ona 
never acknowledge any other motive. It is probable, that, in time, the 
pi^plary punishments inflicted wiU deaden ^ alaciity widi which crl^ 
mve Mthertn be«i committed, and the steady and just adminmtraUon of the laws 



88 THE PROVINCE [mahommedan eaw. 

go a. certain way towards imbuing the inhabitants with a moral principle, or 
something resembling it. At present they have neither, at least in the true 
Cliristian sense of the word, but sufficient time for the effectual operation of the 
British system has not yet elapsed, so as to occasion any solid improvement of 
chaincter. 

It has long been a general complaint, that the Mahommedan law is not ade- 
quately comprehensive for the punishment of crimes, there being no express law 
for the punishment of crimes against the state, forgery, perjury, receiving of stollen 
goods, and accomplices, except in cases of murder. For the most part, as usjpd 
in the courts of justice, it consists of a few sentences extracted from the korsin, 
and from the Huddees, or the verbal opinions of Mahommed and some of the 
Imaums, his immediate successors, which have been collected and recorded ; but 
on the application of which commentators differ materially. To prevent any 
detriment from tliis discordance of interpretation, the British government has 
promulgated a regulation, enacting, that the determination of only two of the 
commentators, Yusef and Mahommed, shall be adhered to as a general rule; but 
the code, notwithstanding this amendment, continues very defective. The fol- 
lowing are the principal innovations made by the British system on the Mahom- 
medan criminal law ; viz. the abolition of mutilation and all barbarous punishments, 
(such as impaling, &c.); the depriving the heirs of the murdered persons of the 
dangerous power of pardoning the murderers; and the making the guilt or inno- 
cence of the persons charged with murder depend rather on the evident intention 
of the prisoner, than on the nature of the weapon. 

None but the public officers, and those who are candidates for office, can be said 
to possess a general knowledge of the regulations. Each class know someUiing of 
such regulations as concern them respectively, but no instance has occurred of a 
native who possessed a full, distinct, and comprehensive view of the British regula- 
tions, any more than of the civil and political state of the country. All are like- 
wise equally ignorant of the koran and shastras, except a few Hindoo pundits, and 
Mahommedan law officers ; but under the present constitution of the country tiie 
most profound knowledge of both would but little promote the administration of 
executive justice. The natives have certainly great personal confidence in the 
Company’s servants, which, with the acknowledged purity of the system, imd 
the difficulty of attaining improper ends by unworthy means, must, in prooeas of 
time, meliorate their moral character, and teach them to exdtange frintiess prac- 
tices of low cunning and intrigue, for habits of honest industry and exorihm. 

Much might be said respecting the characters of the Bci^pidose aemmdl^ a 
most importmit class of natives, but it would be irery dhikudt to fe&ler 
subject intelligible to the European reader, for whose use tins Is 



xxktifDAii.] OF BENGAL 89 

like Bid great noass of Bie peoploi a Bengaleie i^nnkiidir oonkAen 
oaljf Bm» pignut lunir, is improvid^t of the fhture, and most of Bimn are mere 
pii^ppets in Bie hands oi the unprincipled and rapacious managers of Bimr lemtes. 

are consequently soon involved in difficultim, from which they are unalde 
to extricate themselves, and their estates are sold, but their ruin they impute to 
the ahictness and severity of government in the exaction of the revenue. It was 
no doubt the intention of the government to confer an important benefit on this 
class of sulgects, by abolishing the custom of imprisoning landholders for arrears 
of revenue ; but they assert it has been found by melancholy experience, that the 
systrnn of sales and attachments, substituted in its stead, has in the course of a 
very few years reduced most of the great zemindars in Bengal to distress and 
beggary, and effected a greater mutation of landed property in the province, 
than perhaps ever happened in any age or country as the mere consequence of 
internal regulations. Blind and insensible as the natives are to consequences, 
they will hardly ever give themselves the trouble of guarding agunst a distant 
evil, or undertake any thing for the sake of a remote advantage, more than the 
mere stimulus of money being necessary to rouse them. To this apathy and 
supineness in their dispositions, joined to habits of dissipation, extravagaime, and 
disunion, is to be ascribed the ruin of many zemindars ; but in other cases this 
^ect has resulted, from their estates being over assessed, and the difficulty they 
experienced in collecting the rents due by the under tenants and cultivators. 

In this province there are many female zemindars, generally subservient to, 
and under the management of the family Brahmin, who controub thdr con* 
sciences. This person has his own private interests to attend to, and, without 
appearing, exerts an influence over the public business. The ostensible managing 
a^t submits to the controul of a concealed authority, which he must conciliate ; 

; and the interests of the state and the zemindar equally bend to it. A Brahmin in 
I: Bengal not only obtmns a lease of land on better terms, but enjoys exemptions 
I from various impositions and extortions, to which the less sacred classes arc 
exposed. 

I Throughout the whole of Bengal there is very little distinction to be observed 
I hetween the houses of the meanest peassmt and those of the zemindar, which 
» prbbaMy, in part, owing to the rule of inheritance, wMdi prevails both wftih 
e Mahommedans and Hindoo, and in families is an everiasting ' murce of 
f, enmity, and dispute. Property of evmry sort, bemg uhivem% liable 
eqittlity of partition among the heirs, must, if persevmed in soon reduce all 
^Ihe same level, and im progress to ffie lowest degree be accelcarated with an 
momentum. Another consequtmce ffitis commuiuty of property 



go THE PROVINCE C#cbi.ic t»rwc«f. 

The great increase of suits has been the subject of much yet 

it may be traced to a cause highly honourable to the Biiti^ government, 
vis. to the increased value of every species of property, but more especially of 
landed property, and to the confidence felt by tlm natives of that security. 
This confidence leads them to prosecute for the recovery of rights, real or 
imaginary, which in other times, and under other drcumsttoces, they would 
have abandoned as unworthy of attention ; which sentiment has been greatly 
strengthened by the strict adherence on the part of government to the tcn^ of 
the decennial settlement of the land revenue, afterwards rendered perpe^al. 
In 1802, some landholders were still apprehensive of having the assessmenf on 
their lands increased, but time has eradicated this error, and the impression is 
universal that property is not liable to confiscation, or gross violation by the 
supreme, or any authority. It was formerly the custom to bury in the ground 
treasure and valuable goods, and to conceal the acquisition of wealth ; the latter 
is still done, but generally fi-om dread of dacoits, or gang robbers, for they well 
know that it can be only under the sanction of a law, that new impositions 
of any kind can take place. Formerly in these provinces the cultivators of the 
soil when oppressed beyond endurance, were accustomed to assemble in crowds 
with ploughs and other implements, and demand justice with violent and out- 
rageous clamour; at present they proceed by regular process, and it is to be 
apprehended are becoming too prone to litigate about trifles. Coerced as they 
are by the strong arm of British power, individuals have now no other mode of 
encroaching on their respective rights, except by harrassing each other through 
the forms of law in the civil and criminal courts, and of this vindictive weapon 
they are both by nature and inclination much disposed to make a liberal use. 

Religious buildings and public edifices of great size are now seldom con- 
structed in Bengal What wealth remains with the natives is more widely 
diffused than formerly, and the fortunes accumulated by Europeans are in- 
variably remitted to Europe. This latter class now occupy the stations of those 
native officers, who in former times, either from motives of charity or ostentatioii, 
raised those buildings of utility, which are now only to be traced out by their 
ruins ; and in fact the light soil, alluvial situatiem, and exubmant vegetarion of 
Bengal, are hostile to the pernumence of any erectioim howevm' well ©Mistrufitid 
originidly. With a particular class of the natives it is a very genewd cmwpllhlt, 
that they cannot now pirocure a livelihood in the British provimjes. they 
that under former govemments, the number of troops entertaiimd, and th^ 
ouft descriptions of servants required for state and for the revenue ct^Qecttoiis» 
afforded means of employment which are now lost; the troti^ and fidlbef* 
under the British government being ciieamsci3>ed to the tmallMi petHdlde aedt* 



OF BlKOAIi. 

On tibis ncooimt, ai^ probably aUo tbe e:|!UtUty of ranks in tlie distribtitkp of 
juaUoe, some of (be principal inhabitants, especially the Mahommedans, <»»• 
»ot be reconciled to any foreign government, and, reflecting with regret on ^ 
loss of tihetr former privileges, view with disgust the impartial system of British 
jurisprudence, which has wholly neutralized their importance in society. In 
the course of time, it is to be expected, that this sensation will subside, and 
either give place to a conviction of the advantages resulting from the exchange, 
or be wholly forgotten by people nearly inseirsible to either the past or future. 
One thii^ is certain, that owing to the long duration of domestic quiet, they 
have already forgotten their former condition of turbulence and anarchy, when 
scarce a year passed over without their being disturbed by the rumour, or 
terrified with the atrocities of actual warfare. 

It is extremely difficult to say whether the great bulk of the natives be 
decidedly attached to the British government or not, their common speech to 
European functionaries being a mere rant of praise and flattery ; and it may be 
presumed that those inhabitants with whom the British associate, are not de* 
ficient in extollmg the happy effects of the British domination, and doubtless 
if they look to the neighbouring states, and draw a comparison, the praise may 
not be thought very extravagant. Generally speaking, it is probable that the 
first class of Hindoo inhabitants are dissatisfied, chiefly from motives of 
ambition, the middling satisfied, and die lower well pleased with the British 
government, which has so essentially meliorated their condition. On the other 
hand the higher ranks of Mahbmmedans, whose government we have subverted, 
in addition to their religious prejudices, have many political reasons to detest our 
predmninance. The men of opulence now in Bengal m'e the Hindoo mer* 
chants, bankers, and banyans of Calcutta; with a few at the principal provincial 
starions. The greatest men formerly were the Mahommedan rulers, whom the 
British have superseded, and the Hindoo zemindars. These two classes are 
now reduced to poverty, and the lower classes look up to the official senmnts 
and domestics of the English gentlemen. No native has any motive to dis* 
'tbiguish himself greatly in the aimy, as he cannot rise higher than a soubahdar, 
a rank inferior to an ensign. 

It has always formed part of the system of British policy to endeavour to raise 
: up a cfauM of respectable landed proprietors, on which account great encoun^< 
/mmt has always been given to the permanence in fiamilies of bmded property, 
bfid ft is to be feared without success, principally owing to the inviimible folly 
of fee narive fendhoNter, and fee nariire tM law (ff inheritance, 
peiods out fedir estates mto fee minutmt firacrimis, At pteamit, it mutt 
Ifeied* feat feere it no iatennediate chtss between fee soverei^ and fee comnum 



m THE PROVINCE {wyvtiimtttfr, 

pea[)le; the distance between the two is consequoitly in&iite. Notwi^tand- 
nig'ihe long duration of the Mahommedan sway, it bad very tittle eflfoot on the 
mass of the people, and our government must have still less, because we do 
not, like the Mahonunedans, mix and coalesce with tbem ; they consequently 
appear as remote from adopting English customs, as the English are from 
adopting their’s. 

Respecting the nature of the British government, and of its external r^Ub> 
lions, the natives remain superlatively ignorant. In Calcutta a degredi of 
curiosity may sometimes be observed, and a desire to converse on state affia^ ; 
but on these occasions the best informed natives always betray an extime 
gnorance. The most learned have no knowledge of the law of nations, nor 
do they suppose the measures of the supreme power to be founded in equity or 
moderation ; the idea of a supreme executive government prescribing laws 
and limits to its own authority, not presenting a very intelligible idea to a 
native. On this account many of tliem still consider the regulations of govern- 
ment as only temporary, and liable to be altered and rescinded by the interest 
or caprice of the power that enacted them. 

Although the bulk of the natives cannot be described as decidedly attached 
to the British government, which they certainly do not understand, that 
government is nevertheless very strong and secure from any serious internal 
commotion. No government ever stood more independent of public opinion. 
To the inhabitants, the political state of the country is a complete incom- 
prehensible mystery ; yet it is probable that since our effectual establishment 
in 1705, no native^ ever dreamed of subverting the government. In this point 
of view the mass of natives are most ignorant and helpless, without concert w 
combination, and no oppression of the ruling power would produce any resist- 
ance that might not be quelled by a company of sepop. The power of the 
British government in Bengal is completely despotic, and Che imbmission of its 
subjects perfect and tmqualified. This is in fact' so complete, as to prechide 
the necessity of coercion, or intimidation of any kind ; all appearance, c<m- 
sequently, of military int^erenoe may be kept wholly out of si^t, and H vdH 
only be when European laws, religion and literature, come to be dissemiiuited, 
that it will be nec^sary to draw the reim tighter, to prote that vre ptweei* 
power irredstible to ccunmaid obedience. The army is powerild, and 
certainty be depended <m, so long as they are r^gulaiiy The atinya, 
like the rest of the natives are mitirely tminstructed aa to the form of goviem- 
p<^cy of their rulers, or justice of their wart, and m this igaoranoa and 
i^thy coBiiatB ow strength 

, It U Q truth perfectiy obvMiia, that the pecuHar Intmnsta ef the 



ssuvANTs.] OF BENGAL. 93 

flMQt reecemmead the happiness of thdr native subjects. On the acquisition of 
thrae temtories, the primary object certainly was, to discover what could be 
obtained from them, not how they might most benefited. In process of 
tiipe, however, it became necessary to devise how they might be benefited, in 
order fibat the same amount 6f resources might continue to be drawn from them. 
Persona who remember the state of this province in 1769, and 1789, the 
tibirtieth of the revolution, are inclined to think that it exhibited more appear* 
anoe of opulence at the former than at the latter period, an opinion confirmed 
by the records of the province for the 12 years subsequent to 1769; the decline 
continuing long after the efiects of the famine had ceased to operate. But 
vrithout resorting to local mismanagement, the nature of the connexion which 
binds Bengal to Britain, will sufficiently account for the tendency of its internal 
condition to deteriorate. All the offices of trust or emolument, civil and military, 
and the highest lines of commerce, are in the hands of strangers, who after a 
temporary residence depart with the capital they have accumulated; while 
under native rulers even the extortions of rapacity, and the drains of tribute, 
again entered circulation, and promoted in some form the territorial industry. 
Under its present constitution the remittance, or rather tribute to Britain, 
carries off every year a large share of the produce, for which nothing is 
returned. 

The body of servants who fill the commercial, political, financial, and judicial 
offices in Bengal, are supplied by annual recruits of young officers under the 
appellation of writers, who generally leave England for India about the age of 
1 8-— when they have completed three years residence in the country they are 
eligible to an office of £500 per annum emolument, upwards ; after six years to 
£1500 per annum, upwards; after nine to £3000, upwards ; and after twelve years 
to £4000 per annum, or upwards. The directors of the Company generally appoint 
annually about 30 writers for the civil service at the three presidencies. In 181 
the number of civil servants in Bengal was 391 ; under the Madras presidency 
206, and under that of Bombay 74 ; in all 671. The pay, allowances, and emolu* 
mmits of the civil power in Bengal, including European uncovenanted assistants, 
amounted in 1811, to £1,045,400. The diplomatic residents or ambassadmns, 
inostly taken from the civil service, are stationed at Delhi, Hyderabad, Lucknow, 
Travaacore. Mysore, Nagpoor, Poona, jmd with Dowlet Row Sindia. In 1818, 
rim tptd number of nivil servants on the Bengal establishment was 459, and cl 
ihedicaidlO. 

The native. <ff Sepoy troops under the three presidencies, in 1818, induffing 
; ri» nen*commissioned officers, who are also natives, amounted to 182,838 ne^pdara, 
fakd 84,741 inegiilaia, beaidM 5,875 iavalids and peasbaers; grand total 213,1^. 



94 THE PROVINCE [popcxatiow. 

The European officers attached to this force under the Bengal presidency were 
2,0^4, who rise by seniority In the spring of 18 1 6 , reckoning the augmentation, 
and including all the provincial and local corps, the Bengal only amounted to 
80,000 fighting men. 

It has become usual for the government at home to send to Indian certain 
number of regiments from the army of His Majesty, which are for the time 
placed at the disposal of the Company, and co-operate with the army immedi- 
ately subject to that corporation. About 22,000 King’s troops are now usu|djy 
stationed in India. The commander in chief of both King's and Company’s forces 
is usually the same person, nominated both by the King and by the Company 
to the command of their respective armies, acting by virtue of a commissipn 
from each. In 1811, the total number of King’s troops in India was 21,488; the 
expense £1,154,695 per annum ; and the Company’s Bengal army of all descrip- 
tions of regulars was 58,690 men. 

During the revolutionary war the annual appointment of cadets for the three 
presidencies averaged 120 for the military, and 10 for the marine service. In 
1811, the number of officers in the Company’s service on the Bengal establish- 
ment was 1,571 ; the pay and allowances amounted to £872,088 per annum. The 
number of resident Europeans out of the service in the provinces undm* the 
Bengal presidency, Calcutta included, in 1810, were computed at 2,000 persons. 
( Public documentit manuscript and printed, Sir Henry Strachey, Burrish Crisp, JR. 
Grant, Ernst, Welland, I. D. Paterson, Keating, C. Grant, Mill, E. Celebrooke, 
Lowther, 8gc. S^c. 4’t. 


CHAPTER VII. 

COMPOSITION OF THE POPULATION, EDUCATION AND LEABNINO, ROUSES, INNS, 
PLANTATIONS, FOOD, DBINKZNG, FOWLS, DOOS, BBARKINT BULLS, MALE AND 
FEMALE DRESS, MUSIC, VARIOUS TRADES, SLATERT, RELIGION, SECn AND 
CASTES, SUMMARY OF I^E MORAL CHARACTER OF THE BENGALESE. 

Beyond Bengal the natives of the northern mountains prove bf tibmr fea- 
tures a Tartar <mgin : they people the northern boundary of B^igal. ' On Ihe 
eastern hiUs and m the adjacmit plains, the peculmr feabires of the iwhab^ ^ 
shew wi^ equal oertamty a distinct origm ; and the elevated tract whudi H^cmgal 
includes on west, is peo|ded froma stodi obvkmsly distinct, nr rather by 



ecucakon.] of BENGAL. 95 

«everal races of mountaineers, the probable aborigines of the country. The 
latter are most evidently distinguished by their religion, character, language and 
mannma, as well as by their features, from the Hindoo natives. Under various 
denominations they people the vast mountainous tract which occupies the centre 
of India, and some of their tribes have not yet emerged from the savage state. 

In tiie mixed population of the middle districts, the Hindoos may be easily 
distinguished from the Mahommedans. Among the latter may be discriminated 
the Mogul, the Afghan, and their immediate descendants, from the naturalized 
Musselmaun. Among the Hindoos may be recognized the peculiar features of a 
Bengalese, contrasted with those of the Hindostany. The native Bengalese are ge- 
nerally stigmatized as cowardly and pusillanimous ; but it should not be forgotten 
that at an early period of our military history, they almost entirely filled several 
of our battalions, and and distinguished themselves as brave and active soldiers. 
It must however be acknowledged that throughout Hindostan, the Bengalese 
name has never been held in repute ; and that the descendants of foreigners, 
settled in Bengal, are fond of retracing their origin to the countries of their an- 
cestors. 

In this province the first rudiments of education are usually given in small day 
schools, under the tuition of teachers, who are poorly rewarded and little 
respected, and who are quite different from the Gooroos (family priests) who 
instruct in religion. Children usually go to school at the age of five, and are 
instructed to read and write at the same time. They begin with tracing letters 
on the floor with a pencil of steatite, commencing with the consonants, and after- 
wards joining the vowels so as to form syllables. In five or six months they are 
thus able to read and "wnrite. They then begin to write cyphers on palmyra 
leaves, with a reed and ink, and at the same time learn numeration, and the sub- 
division of weights and measures, and of time belonging to astronomy, or rather 
astrology; the whole occupying 18 months. After this progress they begin to 
write on paper, and to learn to keep accounts, and at the same time to multiply, 
divide, and subtract, with the rule of practice, in which the usual Indian arith- 
metic consists. 

In rius scheme of instruction, accounts and arithmetic are divided into two 
distinct departments; one for agricultural and the other for commercial affairs. 
Wbm both are learned, the former is usually taught first, but not many of the 
natives acquire that knowledge, or are able to tell how many begahs, or fractions, 
h'feotttr^led parallelogram contains; for the Hindoo geometry, as far as is known 
fa cotemon practice, proceeds no further. Practical surveyors have no mode of 
ssomttdning the extent of irregular figures, but by reducing them to rectmi^^ 
ptttaadograms, in vrhich they ale giiided meridy hy the eye or eMiiii«|ieii| 



96 the province CtiTBRATO**, 

and even in measurmg parallelograms they are destitate of any iaatniment, tlutt 
can ascejtein whether or not all the angles be equal. 

In Bengal, parents are generally satisfied with instructing their childly ui 
mercantile accounts, and in keeping a very full day or waste bode, in wfaidi 
every transaction is carefully recorded, and to which is added a kind of ledger ; 
but their books do not admit of a regular balance like what is called the Italian 
method. It is only arithmetic, commercial and s^cultural, that is taught at 
school ; the application to mensuration and to the keeping of books, either of a 
merchant or landholder, are acquired in some oflSce or shop, where the youth com- 
mences as an assistant, and learns the style and manner of correspondmice. The 
use of the sharp iron style, for writing on bark and leaves, although the original 
manner of Hindoo writing, has been entirely abandoned, and a reed pen, and a 
bamboo inkstand, introduced by the Mahommedans, are universally employed, 
even in writing on the palmyra leaf, which substance is also still used for works of 
value, being more durable than the paper fabricated in the province. Besides 
the paper, the natives pay for writing, rather less than one rupee for every 32,000 
letters, at which rate the Mahabharat cost 60 rupees ; the Ramayuna 24 ; the 
Sree Bh^vat 1 8 rupees ; and other books in proportion to their contents. It is an 
excellence of the Bengtdese language that every letter has a uniform undeviating 
sound, its pronunciation is consequently remarkably easy. Every fifth consonant 
has a nasal sound, and every second consonant is an aspirate to that which pre- 
cedes it. Neither is its idiomatic construction involved or perplexed with gen- 
ders and irregular verbs, so that there are probably few languages, either ancient 
or modem, of such easy acquisition. The Bengalese books are mostly single 
leaved, with a fiat board at &e top, and another at the bottom, which are tied 
with cords and wrapped in a cloth. 

It has long been remarked, that science and literature are in a progressive 
state of decay among the natives of India, the number of learned men being not 
only diminished, but the circle of learning, even among those who devote them- 
selves to it, greatly contracted. The abstract sciences are abandtmed, pdite 
literature neglected, and no branch of learning coltivate4, but what is imnnecited 
with the peculiar religious sects and doctrines, or with the asbrolc^ <d the people. 
The immediate consequence of this state of dtiugs is fihe disuse, and even actmd 
loss of many v^uable books ; and it has been feared by many, thht utdoil 
vernmentintmfered with a fostming hand, the revival of letters among tlmaa^hma 
would become hopeless, from a want of books, and of persons qualified to e:qilain 
them. 

The i^tompal cause of the present neglected stale of Uteiitore to totfia, to 
to be tmM. to the warn of that encooiagemesto, which waa fenniM^ 



OF BENGAL. 


LWERATUEI.] 


97 


it by princes, chieftains, and opulent individuals under the native governments. 
Such encouragements must always operate as a strong incentive to study, and to 
literary exertions, more especially in India, where the learned professions have 
little if any further support. The justness of these observations might be 
illustrated, by a detailed consideration of the former and present state of science 
and literature, at the principal seats of Hindoo learning, viz. Benares, Tirhoot, 
and Nuddea; and the favours conferred, not only by kings and princes, but also 
by zemindars, on persons who distinguished themselves by a successful cultiva- 
tion of letters at those places. It would equally exhibit the present neglected 
state of learning at those once celebrated seminaries, and shew that the cultiva- 
tion of letters is now confined to the few surviving persons who had been patro- 
nized by the native princes, and others, during the former governments, or to 
such of the immediate descendants of those persons as had imbibed a love of 
science from their parents. In 1809, there still existed at the advanced age of 
108 years, Jagatnath Tercapanchana, an eminent pundit, who resided at Tirv'eny, 
30 miles from Calcutta; where, surrounded by four generations of his descendants, 
in number near 100, he continued to give daily lectures to his pupils on the 
principles of law and philosophy. 

It is not, however, the national character that is affected by the present neg- 
lected state of literature. The ignorance of the natives not only excludes them 
from the enjoyment of all those comforts and benefits, which the serious cultiva- 
tion of letters is calculated to afford, but, operating as it does throughout the 
whole mass of the population, tends materially to obstruct the measures adopted 
for their better government. 

Influenced by the above train of reasoning, the Bengal government in 1811, 
during the administration of Lord Minto, adopted certain measures for the 
encouragement of erudition and science among the natives, by a system of 
liberal salaries, and donations to the different colleges and seminaries ; but it is 
greatly to be doubted whether, under existing circumstances, it be practicable to 
reimbue the natives with a taste for their own peculiar style of learning, or, if 
practicable, desirable. With the prospect before them of a long and intimate 
connection with the European powers, it would probably prove a much more 
advantageous measure, to direct their views towards European literature and 
languages, as tending both to the improvement of their morals, and leading ulti- 
mately gradually to the tranquil adoption of a superior religion. With this 
object the Hindoo and Mahommedan languages might be suffered by impercep- 
tible steps to descend gently into the grave, and take rank among the dead with 
the Greek and Latin. 

The genuine Bengalese towns are not arranged into streets, but into divisions 

VOL. I. 0 



gs the province [building. 

of east, west, north, south, and centre. In one part the Hindoos reside, in 
another the Mahonunedans, and in another the native Portugueze. The Hindoo 
portion is farther subdivided into the quarters of the Brahmins, scribes, weavers, 
oil makers, washermen, barbers, cultivators, potters, &c. ; but this distribution is 
not always strictly observed. The style of house peculiar to Bengal consists of a hut 
with a pent roof constructed of two sloping sides, which meet in a ridge forming 
the segment of a circle, so that it has the resemblance of a boat overturned. This 
kind of hut is called by the natives banggala, a name which has been altered |>y 
Europeans to bungalow, and applied by them to all their buildings in the cotts^e 
style, although many of them are excellent brick houses, adorned with the fornte 
of Grecian architecture. Among the genuine Bengalese, the poor man has < ine 
hut for himself and cattle ; richer men increase the number without altering thi^ 
plan of the building. When the materials are at hand, the walls of the hut 
are made of mud, and the floor is always raised a foot or two above the level of 
the plain, but not always so high as to be above the water during the rainy 
season. To remedy this inconvenience, a platform of bamboos is constructed at 
one end of the hut, and upon this the family sit and sleep, but to reach the door 
they must wade through the water and mud. When the soil is too loose for 
making walls, the sides of the hut are formed of hurdles, which are usually made 
of straw, grass, or reeds, confined between sticks or split bamboos tied together. 
The frame of the house usually consists entirely of bamboos, and it is only in the 
houses of the very wealthy that wooden posts or beams are used, neither polished 
or painted, and seldom fastened with nails. The door in general is the only 
aperture in the hut, crevices excepted, and is commonly shut by a hurdle, which 
is tied to the upper part of the door, and fells down like a valve. Wooden folding 
doors are only used by the great, and there are few houses that have openings 
like windows to admit air or light. If the house be intended for a shop, one side 
of the roof is extended four or five feet beyond the wall, is supported by a row 
of bamboos, and forms a gallery or veranda, which serves for a shop. In this 
province it is not the custom with the natives to build one house with a number 
of different apartments sufficient for the purposes of the family, on the contrary, 
except among the great, a separate house or hut is generally for each particular 
purpose, and these huts collectively are usually surrounded by a fence. The 
dwellings of the poorer classes being placed on the bare earth are extrem^y 
damp and unhealthy in a climate subject to such excessive moisture, and one of 
the greatest practical improvements of their condition would be, the introduction 
of huts or houses raised on posts, like those of India beyond the Ganges, which 
are infinitely drier, healthier, and freer from vermin than those of Bengal. 

The houses of the rich are of brick and flat roofed. In some instaacei Btey 



OF BENGAL 


INNS.] 


99 


consist of three buildings, two stories high ; one in front, one on each side, and a 
high wall before, in the centre of which is a door. The windows are mere air 
holes. In the first story of the house the idol is set up ; the upper rooms are 
occupied by the family. The two sides below are formed into verandas, and 
when important religious ceremonies are performing, an awning is thrown over 
the outer court, into which common spectators are admitted ; the Brahmins and 
upper classes occupying the verandas, while the females look through the 
crevices from above. Their sitting and sleeping rooms contain neither pictures, 
looking glasses, book cases, tables, chairs, nor indeed scarcely any thing except 
a loose mat, some vessels of brass, a hookah, and the dishes used for pawn. 

Throughout the province, except in the large towns, there is no inn, nor place 
of accommodation for the mere traveller, yet in almost every small town he may 
procure an empty house or hut where he may have shelter. The route of a person 
travelling in this manner must of course be directed from one town to another, 
and also in many directions, for, notwithstanding the immense population, these 
are often situated at a great distance, the Bengalese delighting in a country life. 
Making roads, digging tanks, and planting trees, among the Hindoos, are reli- 
gious duties, and almost every rich man performs one or other, or often the 
whole ; but as the inducement is to obtain celestial favour, public utility is on 
these occasions little consulted, and the works frequently turn out nuisances; 
The plantation usually consists of trees totally useless, or of sour resinous mangoes, 
and soon becomes jungle, the harbour of wild beasts which devour travellers : 
the tank declines to a dirty puddle, which is soon choked up with weeds, 
generating diseases, and the road is wholly useless to passengers, as it does not 
lead from one market place to another, but commonly from the house of the 
founder to some temple which he chuses to frequent, or to some tanlf or river, 
where he performs his ablutions. 

Many intelligent persons have been of opinion that vegetable food highly 
seasoned with capsicum, and water to drink, is the diet best adapted for a warm 
climate, but the justice of this notion there is much reason to question. The 
natives of Bengal, who subsist exactly in this manner, have extremdy weak 
constitutions, incapable of resisting the slightest change of air or water. It is 
more probable, that those who enjoy a diet which includes animal food and 
strong liquors in moderate quantities, are best able to support the influence of 
unhealthy climates, and the sudden alterations of the atmosphere. Mahommed 
also had encomiums for his prohibition of strong liquors, upon the supposi- 
tion that excessive inebriety would throw the natives of warm into 

un^vemable paroxysms of fury. The fact, however, is emctly the reverse, as 
ifothlng can be quieter than a drunken Bengally. On these occasimss he either 

02 



THE PROVINCE 


100 


[food. 


retires with his wife or mistress to some private place, where both parties drink 
until satiated, or he swallows so much liquor at once, as to deprive himself both 
of reason and voluntary motion, and falls down prone on the earth a stupid block. 
It is seldom or never that, like the Centaurs and Lapithse, he engs^s in that 
boisterous conviviality which generates feuds, broils, and quarrels. 

The extracts of poppy and hemp are by native moralists considered more inno- 
cent than spiritous liquors, yet they are much more apt than distilled spirits to 
lead to the most beastly private intoxication. A Brahmin who intoxicates hi|tt- 
self with these drugs is considered highly blameable, but it does not involve t|ie 
loss of caste. Many of the lowest tribes use them whenever they can, but it is 
only the very lowest that will drink spirits openly. All women chew tobacco, 
but it is only the females of unclean tribes and prostitutes that smoke. No mah 
loses caste by smoking tobacco, and all practise it, except a few pundits, who 
content themselves with snuffing, which is considered more dignified than 
smoking. Men seldom chew tobacco. 

In general a Hindoo man of rank passes a considerable part of his time in 
cooking, but the ceremonies which this operation involves being very troublesome, 
many of the natives kindle a fire only once a day, generally in the evening, when 
they make their principal meal. In the morning and at noon they eat some food 
that does not require cooking, such as pal'ched rice, or rice parboiled and after- 
wards beaten flat and dried. Those who can aflbrd the expense, mix it with 
molasses, and form cakes or balls, and some mix it with milk, sour or curdled, or 
with tamarinds. The poor either eat it without any addition, or moisten it with 
a little water, and if such luxuries be attainable, season it with a little salt or 
some acid fruit. The preparations of milk are various, consisting of boiled butter 
(ghee); curdled sour milk; butter milk; inspissated milk; and curds. The 
natives use only boiled milk ; the taste as it comes from, the cow being considered 
unpalatable. Neither is the butter ever used without having being boiled, which 
process converts it into an oil that keeps much better than butter. Even in the 
climate of Bengal it undergoes little change for a month, and may be used after 
having been kept a year. The Bengal sweetmeats please neither the eye 
nor palate of Europeans, but the rich natives use large quantities, mostly fried 
in oil or butter. 

Notwithstanding the low price of the necessaries of life, the common labourers 
find it extremely difficult to subsist on their scanty earnings, which in smne 
places are not more than from a penny to two-pence a day, and are obliged to 
have recourse to many expedients, and also possess some advantages. Their 
fuel, herbs, and fruit, cost them nothing, being picked up casually ; they require 
almost no clothes, and lie on the ground. The wife spins sufficient cotton to 



DOCS.] OF BENGAL. 101 

make a web for herself and husband, the children go naked. The man, if a 
Mahommedan, rears a few fowls ; if a Hindoo, he has usually some fruit trees, 
the produce of which he sells and purchases a little salt, oil, and other luxuries. 
Vast multitudes, however, from day to day, never procure any food, except boiled 
rice, green pepper pods, and boiled herbs ; the stai^e above which is a little oil 
with their herbs. Poverty here excites no pity beyond a man’s own caste. He 
belongs to a degraded class, is accursed by the gods, and is suffering for the sins 
of a former birth. 

Owing to the number of Mahommedans and native Portugueze, fowls are 
abundant ; but by the Hindoos of Bengal, they are reckoned impure. Every 
Mussulmaun family has some, which are sheltered in their huts, and sometimes 
receive a little grain ; and there are few families so poor but they can occasion- 
ally offer a fowl to a saint, and eat the meat. Both Hindoos and Mahommedans 
keep ducks, and .pigeons are plenty and cheap. Geese . are chiefly kept as pets, 
and can seldom be procured by purchase. In many parts, turkies have not even 
been heard of, but wherever the native Portugueze have settled in considerable 
numbers, they abound, as in the Chittagong district. 

Dogs, the humble ally of man, are little honoured in India, and no employ- 
ment can be more disgraceful, than the taking care of this faithful brute ; yet the 
breed in Bengal is numerous, and every village swarms with half starved curs 
which eat every sort of carcass and filth, and are not reckoned the property of any 
body. The natives seldom enter into any familiarity with them, nor arc the chil- 
dren ever seen either caressing or tormenting them as in Europe. They are, in 
fact, merely tolerated ; one or two, according to the wealth of a family, being 
permitted to eat the scraps, in return for which they sleep in the yard, and bark 
when a stranger approaches. The bitches are few in number, and generally 
more starved than the dogs, being weaker, and the natives observing a strict 
neutrality in their quarrels. These creatures are so prolific, that the number of 
dogs always exceeds that of the houses which give them shelter ; and a large 
proportion have no resource but to roam about in misery like jackalls. But 
under all their hardships they retain the affectionate nature of their kind : the 
least feeding attaches them, and when the pangs of hunger are deadened, the 
slightest notice delights them, and they soon discover who is the chief person in 
a party, although he neither caresses nor feeds them. Cats are not numerous, and 
are like dogs just tolerated, and live in a half-domestic, half-wild state. 

In many parts of B^gal, an absurd custom prevails, which frequently occa- 
sions much damage to the farmers ; when a rich man dies and the ceremony in 
commemoration of ancestors has been, performed, a young bull is consecrated 
with much solemnity to Siva, and married to four young cows ; after which he 



THE movmcE 


m 


[bvlli. 


is marked and turned loose. He may then go where he pleases, and it is not 
lawful to beat him, even if be be eating a valuable crop, or enters a shop and 
there devours the grain exposed to sale. The sufferers shout and make a noise 
to drive him away, but he soon despises this vociferation, and eats heartily until 
he is satisfied. These consecrated bulls become, in consequence of these free 
quarters, very fat, and are fine animals to look at, but very destructive. The 
wives are given away to Brahmins, and he seldom sees them again. The two 
last Rajahs of Dinagepoor, among other expedients which they devised with 
great success to ruin themselves, consecrated in this manner about 2000 cows i 
and as no person presumed to molest the sacred animals, the vicinity soon be*-^ 
came desolate, and the magistrate was at last compelled to sell them all except ! 
100, which were left with the widow to soothe her misfortunes. It is said, that \ 
before the Mahommedan conquest, the Hindoos never castrated the bull ; but 
this appears improbable, and certainly little cultivation could be performed by 
perfect males. 

The Bengaiese are in general, a lively, handsome, race of men ; there is also a 
softness in their features, corresponding to the general mildness, or perhaps, pu- 
sillanimity of their character ; and were it not for the uncharitable operation of 
r:aste, they would, comparatively, be a friendly and inoffensive race. They have 
a thorough contempt for all other nations and castes (which seems reciprocal), 
whom they consider impure and degraded, originally Hindoos, but, in conse- 
quence of their sins and enormities, fallen from that high estate. The contrast 
between the rough bluntness of an European, and the smooth easy polish of a 
Bengalese, is very striking ; the latter are naturally polite, and frequently exhibit 
a great suppleness of manner that surprizes a stranger. This observation, how- 
ever, is only applicable so far as regards their conduct towards their superiors, 
for to inferiors, of whatever nation, they are usually insolent and contumelious. 
Their youths are lively, inquisitive, and of quick perception ; and the common 
people, noisy and loquacious. These are of a dark brown colour, middling sta- 
ture, thin, but well made ; of an oval countenance, many with aquiline noses, 
and all with black eyes and hair. 

The dress of the Hindoo men of rank has become nearly the same with that 
of the Mahommedans. At home, however, the Hindoo men, and on all occa- 
sions their women, retain almost entirely their native dress, which is happily 
suited to the climate, and requires neither buttons, strings, nor pins. This con- 
sists of various pieces of cloto wiapped round them, without having be^ sown 
together in any form, and only kept fixed by havir^ the ends thrust under the 
folds. The needle appears to have been totally unknown to the genuine Hindoos, 
m is there any distinct Hindoo word for sewing, except that used for 



OF BENGAL. 


DRESS.] 


103 


die shuttle in the act of weaving. The head is kept bare, both out of doors and 
at home ; nor do they ever wear stockings. The rich men wear shoes dovm at 
the heel covered with gold and silver thread, and turning up at the toe like the 
curl of a pig’s tail. The poorer Bengalese have only a shred of cloth round their 
loins to cover their nakedness. The females are remarkably fond of trinkets, 
which they fix in their nose, hair, on their forehead, ears, arms, wrists and ancles. 
Rings, of silver and gold, are universally worn ; and few are so very poor as not 
to have a silver ring of some sort. The married Hindoo women use red lead as 
an ornament, but instead of painting their cheeks like the European ladies, they 
rub it on their foreheads. They also tinge their fingers and nails, and paint round 
the soles of their feet with red. The destructive female deities consume a 
great deal, as an offering of this pigment is supposed to be particularly agree- 
able to them. The Bengal tooth powder is usually composed of myrobalans, of 
two other fruits called majaphol and tai, of green vitriol, and of iron filings. It 
is reckoned by the natives a strengthener of the gums ; and when applied in a 
certain manner with betel and some other substances, it renders the teeth ex- 
tremely black, which is considered ornamental. The making of female ornaments 
gives employment to a great many artists, among whom are the persons who 
make rings of shell lac, which the Mahonunedan women wear round their arms. 
They are of various colours, and are, in fact, a hard sealing-wax. The Hindoo 
females use bracelets of shells, which are cut vrith a semi-circular saw, and po- 
lished by rubbing on a sand stone. In compliment, a woman is commended 
when she is described as walking like a duck or an elephant. The teeth are beau- 
tifid when like the seeds of the pomegranate (black and red) ; the nose, when 
like the beak of a parrot ; the hands and feet like the water lily ; the hair when 
black as a cloud ; the chin when resembling a mangoe ; and the lips when like 
the fruit of talacucha. 

But many and severe are the hardships imposed on Hindoo widows of pure 
caste. They are stript of numerous ornaments which they enjoyed while chil- 
dren and wives, and are not allowed to wear a red border on their dress. They 
are compelled to sleep on the ground exposed to insects and vermin, and to act 
as menial servants to the vain beauties who are decked out in the ornaments of 
which they have been deprived. Women of a high spirit often prefer the fune- 
ral pile, while many others submit with patience, especially in the families of 
landholders, Vhere they have young sons incapable of managing their affairs; 
others, to escape these harsh regulations, seek refuge in a brothel. A pure Hin- 
doo, of Bengal, however, is on no account permitted to keep a concubine ; and it 
is chiefly in the north eastern parts, where the female manners are relaxed, that 
Hindoo fimulies keep many female servants. In the south, where the manners 



104 the province [music. 

of Bengal are more strictly observed, most of the women servants are old, and 
are chiefly employed in Mahommedan families. 

To the ear of a European, the native music sounds harsh and disagreeable, and 
to professed musicians, is altogether insufferable. The performers, however, are 
numerous, and the variety of noises they are able to produce, considerable. The 
highest description of musicians consist of bands of instrumental music, which 
accompany the voices of girls who sing and dance. The latter is quite as bad as 
their music ; the motions being slow, lifeless, and without grace. The greatest 
art is to jingle time with some chains, or large hollow rings (goongooroos), which\ 
are tied round their ancles. During the Mussulmaun mohurrim, some persons | 
are employed to sing the praises of Fatima, the daughter of Mahommed ; and of \ 
her unfortunate sons Hassan and Hossein. But it is principally at marriages, 
during religious processions, and such great solemnities, that the full din of music 
is heard, proceeding from eight different sorts of drums, gongs, kinds of haut- 
boys, the horns of buffaloes, and brass trumpets, performed by the lowest dregs 
of the people. From these formidable implements of sound, each man extorts 
as much noise as he can, paying little or no attention to what his comrades are 
about. Sometimes men amuse themselves singing hymns or love songs, accom- 
panied by small drums ; but it is considered as very disgraceful for a modest 
woman to sing or play on any musical instrument. While rowing, the native 
boatmen endeavour to lessen their fatigue, by singing the adventures of Krishna 
and Radha ; and it is among them that the only real melody is to be found, some 
of them greatly resembling the common Scotch and Irish airs. 

In Bengal the common washermen are almost all Hindoos of a very low tribe, 
and have no capital. The common people occasionally go to a tank, or to the 
river side, and wash the clothes in which they are dressed, for they seldom have 
any changes. Almost all the taylors are Mahommedans, the needle having 
apparently been totally unknown to the Hindoos. A great proportion of the 
barbers are Hindoos, are a pure tribe, and shave without soap. In the country 
they attend at all markets, when they shave the beards, and cut the nmls of 
those who employ them. Farmers and labourers shave only once a month, and 
generally pay the barber in grain. Rich men often keep barbers who shave 
them, pick their ears, cut their nails, crack their joints, and knead their bodies, 
to which operation the natives are much attached. Ten days after a woman has 
been delivered, the nails both of her and her child are cut by the barber. No 
native woman, except a prostitute, will allow her hmr to be cut, such care of 
her person being deemed incompatible with modesty. 

The persons who prepare tobacco for smoking are an important set of ardsh^ 
but do not require a large capital. In composing their commodity they tiyke 



OF BENGAL, 105 

from 20 to 30 pcniii4s of tobacco, dry it in the sun, and beat it in amortar, alter 
whtdi they dry it again, and beat it up with three-fourtlu of its wneight of 
treacle, when it forms a sort of cake or ball, which will keep ten or twelve 
days, and is sold in retail. Rich people and Europeans use many other in- 
gredients. The Bengal paper is mostly fabricated by Mahommedans, who 
probaldy mtroduced the art, as before their arrival the natives in their writings 
i^pear to have used only the leaves, or bark of trees. The material for making the 
paper is the paut in its rough state, which after being for some days macerated 
in Ume and water, is beaten until it becomes a pulp, which is afterwards 
washed and soaked, and then wrought into paper. The workman’s mould is a 
frame of bamboos split fine. After the paper is allowed to dry, it is taken 
Mlieet by sheet and immersed in a decoction of rice starch, and having been 
dried is placed on a smooth plank, and rubbed with a smooth stone, which is 
to serve instead of hot-pressing. The metallic fabrications are generally clumsy 
and conducted with characteristic apathy. A Bengal blacksmith cannot work 
by himself; he must have a man to blow the bellows, and he usually has an 
assistant to work with a large hammer. The bellows are placed vertically, and 
on the back board of each is a button, which the workman takes between his 
toes, and lying quietly down on his back, moves the boards backwards and 
forwards with his feet. Of the medical profession tibere are in Bengal three sects 
of native physicians ; the Yimani (lonians), among the Mahommedans ; the 
Sakadwipi Brahmins in Bahar ; and the Vaidhyas in Bengal. 

Domestic slavery is very generally prevalent in Bengal, among both Hindoos 
and Mahommedans. More trusty than hired servants, slaves are almost ex- 
clusively employed in the interior of the house, for attendance on the members 
of the frunily, and in all the most confidential services. Every opulent person, 
every one raised above the condition of the simplest mediocrity, is provided 
with household slaves, and from this class chiefly are taken the concubines of 
Mahommedans and Hindoos ; in regard to whom it is to be remembered, that 
concubinage is not among people of these religions an immoral state, but a 
idatum, which both law and custom recognize without reprehension ; and its 
prevalence is omy liable to the same objections as polygamy, with which it has 
a near and almost necessary connection. In the lower provinces under the 
Bengal Presidency, the employment of slaves in the labours of husbandry is 
almost unknown. In the uppe) provinces, beginning from Western Bahar and 
Benares, the petty landlords, who are themselves cultivators, are aided in their 
hnabandry by slaves, whom they very <M>mmonly employ as herds "and 
Landlords of a higher class have, in a few mstances, tbe preten* 
liipns of mastery over a part of frimr tenants long settle on frieir estates, and 



106 THE PROVINCE [slavert. 

reputed to be descended from persons who were the acknowledged slaTes 
their, ancestors. Their claims to the services of these hereditary serfs, who are 
scarcely to be distinguished from the rest of the peasantry, are nearly obsidete, 
and scarcely attended with any practical consequences ; but those employed in 
husbandry by the inferior Classes of landholders are decidedly slaves. The 
employment of slaves in handicraft work is more rare, but not entirely 
unknown. 

It would be difficult to form a computation of the number of slaves througl^ 
out the country, or of the proportion borne to the free population, tnd any 
steps towards the preparation of an accurate estimate would involve inquirie^ 
which cannot fail of exciting great alarm and agitation. In a general point ol\ 
view it may be stated, that slaves are neither so few as to be of no con-\ 
sideration, or so numerous as to constitute a notable proportion of the population. 
The number, which is certainly not relatively great, has been kept up, 1st, by 
propagation among themselves, or with free persons ; 2dly, by the sale of free 
children into slavery within the country ; 3dly, by importation from abroad by 
sea or by land. 

Neither the disposition of the people, nor their accustomed mode of treating 
their slaves, tends to impede the rearing of children by any discouragement of 
marriages; the instances of concubines and prostitutes of course excepted. 
In other cases a sense of propriety leads very usually to provide a match foi the 
household slave, whose offspring, following the condition of the mother, is 
considered to be attached to the family by a stronger tie than the simple 
relation of a slave to his master. In fact, the slave is usually rather a favourite 
and confidential servant, than an abject drudge, and held superior to the 
hireling, both in his master’s estimation and in his own. Neither is it necessary 
to suppose the number of children born and reared to be small, because 
foreign importation and home sale take place. Opulent persons, in wh<Hte 
families more slaves happen to be bom, than they are desirous of retaining, do 
not sell but emancipate : and persons of reduced circumstances are not willing 
to dispose of their slaves by sale, which is a discreditable act, but give them 
their freedom, although the price be of importance to them in their actual state 
of indigence. The manumission of slaves being deemed an act of piety and 
expiation, it frequently takes place from religious motives, and slaves are cat* 
pressly redeemed by purchase. By these processes the number of slavoi c«m* 
tinually diminishing, a demand constantly exists for the purclmse of them. 

This is chiefly supplied by the sale of children by their parents in seaapni el 
famine, or in circumstances of peculiar calamity ; but the prices in both CMWe 
are low, and no brisk traffic in slaves has ever been experimiced. Hmjbtge 



OF BENGAL. 


tLAVEET.] 


107 


dearth or femine, parents have been known to sell tlieir children for prices so 
very inconsiderable, and so little more than nominal, that they may in frequent 
aastuices have credit for a better motive than that of momentarily relieving their 
own necessities ; namely, the saving of their children's lives, by interesting in 
their preservation persons able to provide that nourishment, of which they are 
themselves destitute. The same feeling is often the motive for selling children 
under circumstances of peculiar distress ; nor is there any reason to believe 
that they are ever sold through mere avarice, or want of natural affection; 
indeed, the known character of the people in all their domestic relations must 
exempt them from the suspicion of such conduct. The pressure of want alone, 
therefore, stimulates the sale ; and so long as no established fund, or regulated 
system for the relief of the indigent exists, it does not seem practicable to 
prevent the disposal of children by their parents, which is permitted by their 
own laws. 

There are two classes of purchasers, however, by whom larger prices are 
given. The one comprehends various religious orders, the members of which 
purchase children to initiate them into their own class ; but being restricted in 
their selection to the higher castes of Hindoos, they do not readily find persons 
willing to part with their children. They ai’e in consequence obliged to bribe 
the cupidity of parents, by a large pecuniary consideration, which their opu- 
lence, derived from the union of the commercial with the religious profession, 
enables them to hold out. The greatness of the reward has been supposed, in 
some instances, to lead to kidnapping, but this cannot occur frequently, as the 
purchaser requires always to have the parentage of the child clearly established. 
The other description of purchasers alluded to consists of the owners of sets of 
dancing women, who buy female children, and instruct them for public exhibi- 
tion, and as -they generally become courtezans, prohibitory laws might be 
enacted. Yet it would perhaps be going too far, to presume in all cases the 
intention of prostitution, and to interdict all instruction in the art of dancing, 
which forms a regular part of their religious festivals and celebrations. 

The remaining source for the supply of slaves, until prohibited by law, was 
the importation by sea and land. By the first mentioned channel a few African 
slaves, never amounting to 100, were brought to Calcutta in the Arab ships. 
The importation by land was principally from the Ncpaulese dominions, where 
dbe oppressive administration of the Gorkhas drove the wretched inhabitants 
to the sad resource of selling their children, or themselves, into slavery, when 
all other expedients of meeting the insatiable exactions of their rulers were 
exhausted. At present the existence of Slavery, as sanctioned by the Hindoo 
jancl hfahommedan law, is tolerated and maintained by the courts of judicature 

r a , ■ 



THE PROVINCE 


108 . 


[aEUOxoXk 


under the British government in India; nor does it appear that any I^^atotive 
enactoent on the subject is called for. Although the native laws have not 
provided against the barbarity of an inhuman master, the British local regute- 
tions have, by expressly annulling the exemption from kisas, or retaliation for 
murder, in 1798, since which period slaves have not been considered out of the 
protection of the law, either in the case of murder or of barbarous usage. 

Among the native population of the eastern districts of Bengal, the Mahom* 
medans are almost equsJly numerous with the Hindoos, and in some particula|r 
parts, such as Ghoraghaut, a majority of the cultivators appear to have embrace^ 
the Mahommedan faith. In the central districts the Mahommedans do noh 
constitute a fourth part of the population, and to the westward the disproportion \ 
is still greater. As an average of the whole the Mahommedans may be com'* ^ 
puted at one seventh of the population. Of the four great castes, the aggregate 
of the Brahmin, Khetri, and Vaisya, may amount at the most to only a fifth part 
of the whole population ; but except families which have evidently migrated into 
Bengal, there are none in that country who pretend to be Khetries, or Vaisyas, 
so that the origpinal Bengalese may be considered as divided into Brahmins and 
Sudras. With respect to religious doctrines, it may be asserted for general 
purposes that there are five sects in Bengal, viz. 

1st, Saiva, who consider Siva, or Mahadeva as the principal god, but always 
worship this deity in conjunction with a female power. 

2d. The Sacti, who worship chiefly the female portion of the deity. 

3d. The Saur, who worship the sun. 

4th. The Ganpatya, who worship Ganesa. 

5th. The Vaishnavas, who worship Vishnu, which sect has branched into 
two ; the one worshippers of Rama, the other of Krishna. 

The members of these sects, although they consider one particular deity as 
the principal object of worship, and as the chief of gods, do not fancy that Bie 
other gods have no existence; on the contrary, they occasionally address 
prayers to each of them ; all may therefore be considered polytheists, and the 
whole are idolaters. Three of the sects abovementioned coroprehmid but a 
very small number of individuals ; the most numerous are those who worship 
the Sacti among the Brahmins, and those among the Sudras who worship 
Vishnu, under the form of Krishna. These last have a strong propensity to 
worship any god that comes in their way, especially the Sacti; nor is it sur^ 
prising that ^ devotees of Vishnu should occasionsdly wander* when eve® tibi 
Mahommedans forget their prophet, and in their distress, if they <»n procnre no 
relief by prayers to their saint, try what can be done by a saofifioo to Crdi. H® 
Sacti are all destructive female spirits, and considered by the BlhhittiiiS i* 



CAiTBiJ OP BENGAL 109 

nuNcly different personifications of the vrife of Sira ; but by the ignorant tiiey 
are worshipped as the inflictors of various evils, which they are desirous to 
escape, and are called Gram Devatas, or village gods. 

Among the Hindoos of Bengal well informed persons of a higher rank be- 
Imve in a future existence, and that it is a state of rewards and punishments ; 
but most of the lower tribes, and the more ignorant Brahmins, do not generally 
b^eve this opinion, although they commonly have heard of the doctrine. 
Hieir worship consequently seems merely performed for temporary purposes, 
and with a view to the rewards and punishments of this life. The lower classes 
have very little respect for oaths, and the higher believe that it is sinful to 
take any oath. The superiority of the Brahmins is in Bengal, as throughout 
the whole of Hindostan, undisputed. The peculiar tribes of this caste are said, 
to have sprung from five families of Brahmins from Kanoje, introduced by 
Adisur Raja, a physician, the founder of a dynasty which governed the province 
for some time before the Mahommedan conquest. The first in rank are the 
Coolin Brahmins, who have great privileges, and are allowed to marry many 
wives. The difierence of religious tenets produces much less controversy 
among the Brahmins of Bengal, than among those of the south, and except to 
their spiritual instructor, they do not divulge to what sect they adhere; whereas 
in the Camatics, each party glories in its sect, and takes every opportunity of 
extolling it above every other. Certain religious offices in some measure 
deprive a Brahmin of caste. Those who degrade themselves by acting as 
spiritual instructors to any of the impure tribes are called Vomos, and from 
such no tradesman of the nine pure estates will condescend to accept water. 
Brahmins of the five Bengal tribes, unlike those of the south of India, not only 
act as priests in temples where bloody sacrifices are performed, but actually 
make the offering, and eat the meat. 

In this province the highest Sudras are the Vaidyas, or medical tribe. The 
Kayasthas (pronounced Kaists, hence the word caste) follow next, and were 
once of more importance, when the Brahmins interfered less with the revenue 
and cmnmerce of the country. Next to the Kayasthas are nine tribes of trades- 
men, who although greatly inferior to these scribes, are considered pure Budras, 
as h Brahmin will condescend to drink water offered by them, nor is he de- 
graded by giving them instruction. The nine trades are — 

Druggists, Cultivators betel leaf. Blacksmiths, 

Workers in shell. Weavers, Potters, 

Coppersmiths, Makers of garlands. Barbers. 

By rome strange caprice, not only the bankers, but also the goldsmiths are 



110 THE PROVINCE [caste®, 

excluded from the pure castes of artificers, while barbers, pot makers, copper- 
smith^, and blacksmiths, obtain that much envied dignity. 

When Raja Bollal Sen arranged the castes in Bengal, it does not appear that 
he promulgated any code of written regulations, at least no book of this 
description is now extant. Each caste, however, has persons called ghotoks, 
who keep registers of marriages and can ascertain genealogies. In Bengal, 
commerce and agriculture are universally permitted to all classes, and under the 
general designation of servants to the other three tribes, the Sudras are allowed 
to prosecute any manufacture. In this tribe are included not only the tru4 
Sudras, but also several castes, whose origin is ascribed to the promiscuous 
intercourse of the four classes. In practice little attention is paid to the limitation' 
of castes, daily observation shewing Brahmins exercising the martial profession ^ 
of a Khetri, and even the menial one of a Sudra. It may however be received 
as a general maxim, that the occupation appointed for each tribe is entitled 
merely to a preference, every profession, with a few exceptions, being open to 
every description of persons. 

In this province, and throughout Hindostan generally, every caste in order to 
preserve purity, form themselves into clubs or lodges, consisting of individuals 
of that caste residing within a small distance, and in Bengal termed collectively 
dol, which govern themselves by particular rules and customs, or by laws. At 
the head of each dol is a chief, whose office among the higher ranks is heredi- 
tary, and whose duty it is to punish all transgressions either by excommunication 
or by fine ; but his decisions must be guided by the sentiments of the principal 
persons composing the society. In large towns there are commonly two or three 
chiefs of dols, whose adherents in general quarrel and annoy each other as 
much as circumstances permit. Each caste, when it is numerous in any place, 
has besides one or more distinct dols, or societies for enforcing the observation 
of its rules. Each kind of Bralimin, and each subdivision of Sudras, has its own, 
and most of these are parcelled out into diverging branches, which dispute about 
purity and precedence. In the various tribes the chiefs of castes are called by 
difi'ercnt names, but the most common is Paraifianiks. The crimes usually pu- 
nished by these combinations are the eating of forbidden things, or the eating in 
company with forbidden persons, aSd cohabiting with those who are impure or 
forbidden. 

Many tribes of Hindoos, and even some Brahmins, have no objections to 
the use of animal food, and at their entertainments it is generally introduced. 
By some, animal food is daily eaten ; and the institutes of their religion require 
that flesh should be tasted even by Brahmins at solemn sacrifices, forbidding the 
use of it unless joined with the performance of such a sacrifice. Leyden 



MORALS.] OF BENGAL. Ill 

WRS inclined to tMnlc, that anthropophagy was practised by a class of mendicants 
named Agora Punth, in Bengal and other parts of India. In the terrible famine 
of 1770 , many Hindoos unable to withstand the cravings of hunger ate food 
from impure hands and lost caste. These and their descendants now form a 
tribe, called Saryuriya, because in every revolution of sixty years, a famine or 
some other great calamity is supposed to occur in the year Saryuriya, as hap- 
pened in the instance abovementioned. 

To give an account of the ‘ceremonies of each, or of any one of the Bengal 
castes, would be impracticable within any reasonable limits, and if pr^ticable 
would only prove in how preposterously frivolous manner time may be wasted. 
In the observance of these ceremonies, however, every Hindoo seems to place 
his chief gratification, and glories in an established reputation for their strict 
performance. Except the bodies of children, the dead of all castes are burned, 
but the funeral pile being expensive, many of the poor cannot afford to be re- 
duced to ashes. As a substitute a torch or wisp of straw is put into the mouth 
of the corpse, and afterwards, if near a large river, it is thrown into tlie water, or 
if at a distance, buried ; but the first is always preferred and fills the Bengal 
r'vers with disgusting objects. The Bengalese Hindoos have generally a great 
terror of the dead, and will seldom venture to inhabit a hut or house where a 
person has died. This seems connected with their custom of exposing their 
sick to perish on the banks of rivers, which tends to aggravate the last pangs of 
nature, and sometimes not only accelerates death, but exhausts that strength 
which might possibly have enabled nature to overcome the disease. The prac- 
tice also furnishes an opportunity of practising other horrid crimes, and it 
has been probably to guard against the possibility of such events, that the 
Hindoo legislators have imposed such severe hardships on widows. By a 
recent regulation of the government, before any sutti (the burning of a widow) 
can take place, notice must be given to the police; they are also prohibited 
from lying down within the pile, although after it is set on fire, they are at 
liberty to enter. 

In the moral scale the Bengalese Hindoos must be allowed to rank very low, 
being destitute in a wonderful degree of the qualities which contribute to dignify 
the human race, and in Europe form the standard by which men are estimated. 
In Europe a reputation for truth, honesty and good faith, is always sought after, 
and those who have them not are still solicitous to maintain appearance of them, 
wiule those known to be devoid of them sink into contempt. It is not so in Ben- 
gal, where these qualities are so generally unknowui, that men do not found their 
pretensions on them, and are quite indifferent to tlve reputation of possessmg 
Bwan, nor does their.absence, however plain and notorious, lower any individusd 
; o{union of his countrymen. WiUi tlie natives wsmt of veracity is so habi- 



THE PROVINCE 


112 


[memjkU, 


tual, that if any person has truth to ddeud, he will without the lightest neoesiu^ 
resori'to fals^oc^ for its support. In matters of interest, lying seems so natural, 
that it gives no provocation, being considered merely as a common mode of pro* 
ceeding, and the practices of cheating, pilfering, tricking and imposing, are so 
general, that the natives regard them as unavoidable evils from whidt they must 
protect themselves the best way they can. In Bengal a man of real veracity 
and integrity is a wonderful phenomenon ; one, conscientious in his whole con- 
duct, may safely be pronounced an unknown character. Distrust is consequently 
awake in all transactions ; bargains and agreements are made with mutual appre- 
hensions of a breach of faith; conditions and securities are multiplied, anf 
failure in their performance excites little or no surprise. Frauds, deceptions^ 
evasions, and procrastinations, incessantly occur in every line and profession, and 
forgeries are resorted to without scruple. Menial servants who have been lor^ 
in place, and have evinced a real attachment to dreir masters, are nevertheless in 
the daily habitual practice of pilfering from them. 

The administration of justice wherever it has been committed to the natives, 
whether Hindoos or Mahommedans, has almost invariably become a traffic in 
venality, the best cause being obliged to pay for success, and the worst having 
an opportunity of purchasing it. Peijury is so frequent, that it is no uncomnum 
event, to hear two sets of witnesses swearing directly contrary to each other, and 
to find on minute investigation, that neither were at all acquainted with the 
matter in question. Being destitute of courage, but formed for business, artful, 
frugal, and persevering, they seek the accomplishment of their ends by low 
cunning, intrigue, servility and obsequiousness. To superiora they are Ml of 
reverence, and wonderfully patient of slights, neglects and injuries, fiom a quarter 
where there is any thing either to hope or fear. In general the natives have not 
sufficient resolution to revenge their quarrels by open combat ; but robberies, 
thefts, burglaries, river piracies, and all sorts of depredations where darkness, 
secrecy, or surprise can give advantage, have always been exceedingly common. 
Many of these robbers, on a principle of fatalism, believe themselves destined to 
the commission of the crimes which they perpetrate, and are conseyaanBy pre- 
pared to resign life, when the appr^ted period shall come, with astoniairtng indif- 
ference; considering the law that condemns them, not as the instrummitofiiutioe, 
but as the power of the stronger party. Neither do the Hindoos appemr to have 
derived any benefit from toe government and intermixture of the Malmminedatis, 
who appear to have superadded some of their ovra evd qualities to toose already 
in existence ; but toe lower classes of both sects are now so modi assimilated, 
that a description of their vices may be considered as applying to tftoia dollto*' 
tivdy. 

Altoough some of tiidr customs have ap apparent afproxxontaoii, htoitotiledoe. 



OF BENGAL. 113 

ia ftfeiiiial Miise, cannot be caid to fbm any part of the Bengalese character. 
Certain modes of distributing victuals to mendicants are prescribed by the Hin- 
doo rdigion ; and also to certain castes, an abstinence bom animal food ; but this 
ostmtatimi of charity is frequently nothing more than tiie pampering of idle and 
atordy ^ests ; and although a Hindoo would shrink with horror from the idea 
of embrumg his hands in the blood of a cow, yet he does not hesitate to drive 
one in his cart, where it is so beajten, galled, and excoriated, that death might be 
inflicted as a mercy to the miserable and sacred animal. Among the lower classes 
where the passions' have a free range, discord, hatred, abuse, injuries and litiga- 
tion, the effect of deliberate malice, prevail to a surprising degree ; and we are 
informed from the highest authority, that to lie, steal, ravish, or murder, are not 
deemed crimes of sufficient atrocity to entitle the perpetrator to expulsion from 
society. After stating these heavy charges against the private character of the 
Bengalese, we must add, that as subjects they are quiet, patient, industrious, 
and governed with a facility almost incredible ; and that one European may sleep 
secure, amidst a million of Bengalese, without a lock on his door, or a weapon of 
ckmce in his vicinity. We mention this as a notorious matter of fact, experienced 
by every European of character, who has ever resided among the genuine Ben- 
galese, remote from the contamination of Calcutta, and of European society. 

(F. Buehmian» Colebrwke, C. Grant, Ward, Lord Minto, Harrington, Lord T^n~ 
mouth, ^'c.) 


CHAPTER VIII. 

HISTORY OF BENGAL. 

Of the existence of Bengal as a separate kingdom, with the limits «iMfi gnf d to 
it at presMit, there is no other evidence than its distinct language and peculiar 
written character. At the time of the war of the Mahabharat, it formed part of 
the empire of Mt^dha, or Bahar, from which, however, it was dismember^ be- 
^|»e the Mahommedan invasion. Traditions, still current in Bengal, maVe BoUd 
lieii, the immediate suecessor of Adisur, a person of the Vaidya, or medical tribe, 
' ^ ponied tiie government of Bengal, but stiff subject to the monaxt^ 

<^t. He is said to have tended partly at Gour» but diiefiy at B ikf ampo o y, eij^t 
|^^so^''east flwa Ihttca. 



114 THBPEOTOTCB 



24» Bangga, or the territory east from the Kortoya towards the Brahmapu- 
tra. The capital of Bengal, both before and afterwai^s, having long been near 
Dacca in the province of Bangga, the name is said to have been communicated 
to the whole. 

3d, Bagri, or the Delta, called also Dwipa, or the island ; bounded on the 
one side by the Padma, or great branch of the Ganges ; on another by the sm; 
and on the third by the Hooghly river, or Bhagirathi. 

4th, Rarhi, bounded by the Hooghly and Padma on the north and east, and 
by adjacent kingdoms on the west and south. 

6th, Maithila, bounded by the Mahananda and Gour cm the east ; theHoog^y 
or Bhagirathi on the south ; and by adjacent countries on the nmthand west. 

The extent of these provinces towards the west, ^t, and north, it is now dif« 
ficttlt to ascertain, but it certainly M short of the present limits of the proTince, 
especially towards the east and norUi. 

BoUal Sen was succeeded by Lakhyaman Sen, who, according to tradition, 
had a son named Madhava Sen, who had a son named Su den, usually conaidm^ 
ed by the Hindoos as the last of their ktaga; but according to the Ayeen Ac* 
berry, Lakhyaman Sen was the last. A. D. 1208, during the reign of Cuttnb ud 
Deen on the Delhi throne, Mahospied Bukhtyar Khilijee was di^paMlied with 
an anny by that sovereign to invade Bengal, and marched with mmh rapidity, 
that he surprised and captured die capital. On the qiproach of the|lMiomii»» 
dans, Baja l^yaman, who redded at Hitddea, made iik«ae«|m in 
fled to Juggentauth; where, according to M a ho n tW i e dani eathedtieif he 
aati^tkm of dying: but thetraditioni of tbaeoaitiry 8i«te» tbit 
of tlia of ffliii 

oocaalcn, ^ a power hdy men, are tuppoaed tp pc i i e n^ filSii 

My. ItBpoacildethat dwB^eidy ictMte ldii«a«li<a|^ 



ovmmu^. m 

pfor, iieSE Btow y/^aimlkiem itill imsMes a fttiiily posMsi^ cot&ddiif^^a^ 
pretend to be fale desooidants. Weaiso M toat SbcnMSfgoiig, in toe^vi. 
etoity ef Biknanpoor, continued to be a place of refoge to the Oour tnalcoi^euts, 
abd urea not finally aabjugeted until long after the overthrow of Raja Lakhyaman. 

*tbe idagdom* be^g in this dastardly manner abandoned by its someign, fin 
an easy piey to the Mahommedan general, who, having destroyed Nodd^, {»o- 
ceeded to Goar, where he established his capital and reared his mosques <m the 
ruins et Hindoo temples. According to Mahommedan authorities, the conquest 
this large province only occupied the short term of one year; but it would 
appear that after the capture of ^ur, the Mtdiommedans were unable to extern 
toeir dominion over the whole Hindoo Kingdom of Bengal, not only towards the 
north and east, but even towards the west ; nor did they obtain possession of 
the whole, constituted as it is at present, until a late period of the Mogul go- 
vernment. 

From this period, Bengal was ruled by governors delegated by the Delhi sove- 
reigns, until A. D. 1340, when Fakher ud Deen, having assassinated his master, 
revolted, and erected an independent monarchy in Bengal. After a short v Rign 
he was defeated, and put to death, and was succeeded by 
A.D. 

1348. Ilyas Khauje. 

1868. Seconder Shah, killed, in an engsgement with his son, 

1867. Gyas ud Deen. He eradicated the eyes of his brothers. 

1873; Sultan Assulateen. 

1888. Shums ud Deen, defeated and killed in battle by 
1385. Baja Cansa, who ascended the throne, and was succeeded by his son, 
1892. Chietmull Jellal ud Deen, who became a convert to the I^omme^ 
religion. 

14M10. Ahmed Khan, who sent an embassy to Shah Rokh, toe son of Timow. 
1426. Nasair Shah, succeeded by his son, 

1467. Barbek Shah. This prume introduced mercenary guards, and forces 
composed of xmgro and Abyssinian slaves. 
iM74. Tttseph Shah, atm of last monardi, succeeded by his unde, 

Futtdi Slmh, who was murdered by his eunudis and Abyssiniaa stem ; 
l emit one of toe eunuch and assumed toe name of 

IfiiAh Zadeh ; but after a reign of eight months he was and 

I' vacant torone tidcmi possession of by 

|4#1I Feroae Shtto Hebtoy, an Abyssmian itoive, succeected his acm, 

1^, Mahmodd Ibis prince was-muideied by bis viiin, an AbfwiidH, 
ll'u^aseeiidM toe toinnn unto to^ 



116 THE PROVINCE CaiiTo»y. 

1495. Muziffer Shab, wbo proved a cruel tyraut and was slain in battle. 

1499. Seid Hossein Shah. This prince expelled the Abyssinian troops, who 
retired to the Deccan and Gujerat, wh^ they afterwards became conspicuous 
under the appellation of Siddhees. He afterwards invaded Camroop and As* 
sam, but was repulsed with disgrace ; upon the whole, however, he may be 
considered as the most powerful and tolerant of all the Bengal kings. He 
was succeeded by his son, 

1520. Nusserit Shah, who was assassinated by his eunuchs, and his sonFennp 
Shah placed on the throne ; but after a reign of three months he was also 
sassinated by his uncle, 

1533. Mahmood Shah, subsequently expelled by Shere Shah, the Afghan, 
with him, in 1538, ended the series of independent Mahommedan monarchs oi^ 
Bengal. Some Portugueze ships had entered the Ganges so early as 1517, and 
in 1536, a squadron of nine ships was sent to the assistance of Mahmood 
Shah ; but these succours arrived too late, and Bengal once more became an 
appendage to the throne of Delhi. The nature of the government of the inde- 
pendent kings is little known ; but they appear to have enjoyed little security : 
for their persons, and were in general furious bigots, greatly under the influ- 
ence of Mussulmaun saints. Shere Shah and bis successors, occupied Bengal 
until 1576, when it was conquered by the generals of the Emperor Acber ; and, 
in 1580, formed in a Soubah, by Raja Tooder Mull. 

The governors of Bengal under the Mogul dynasty, were 

1676. Khan Jehan. 

1579. Muzuffer Khan. 

1580. Raja Tooder Mull. 

1582. Khan Azim. 

1584. Shabbaz Khan. 

1589. Raja Maunsingh. 

1606. Cttttub ud Deen Kokultash. 

1607. Jehangire Cooly. 

1608. Sheikh Islam Khan. 

1613. Cossim Khan. 

1618. Ibrahim Khan. 

1622. Shah Jehan. 

1625. Khanezad Khan. 

1626. Mokurrem Khan. 

1627. FedaiKhan. 

1628. Cojnim Khan Jobung^ 




OF BENGAL* 

1082. Aashn Khan. Boring the gevemment of this viceroy A.B. 1684/ the Ebh> 
obtained permission to trade with their ships to Bengal, in consequence 
of a firmaun from the emperor Shah Jehan, but were restricted to the port of 
Pipley, where they established their ^tory. 

16^. Sultan Shujah, the second son of Shah Jehan and brother of Aurengzebe. 
In 1642, Mr. Bay, the agent who had so successfully established the settle* 
ment at Madras, proceeded on a voyage of experiment to Balasore; from 
whence he sent the first regular dispatch received by the Court of Birectors 
firom Bengal, recommending a factory at Balasore. In 1666, owing to the ex- 
tortion and oppression which the Company experienced, their frmtories were 
withdrawn from Bengal. 

1660. Meer Jumla. 

1664. Shaista Khan. During the government of this viceroy, the French and 
Banes established themselves in Bengal. He expelled the Mughs of Aracan 
from the island of Sundeep, and his administration was, in other respects, able 
and prosperous, although described by the East' India Company’s agents of 
that period in the blackest colours. 

1677. Fedai Khan. 

1678. Sultan Mahommed Azim, the third son of Aurengzebe. 

1680. Shaista Khan was re-appointed. This year Mr. Job Chamock was re- 
stored to the situation of Chief at Cossimbazar ; and in 1681, Bengal was ctm- 
stitttted a distinct agency from that of Fort St. George, or Madras. On the 
20th of Becember, 1686, in consequence of a rupture with the Foujdar, or 
native military commander at Hooghly, the agent and council returned from 
Hooghly to Chattanuttee, or Calcutta, considering the latter as the safer sta- 
tion. 

1689. Ibrahim Khan. In 1693, Mr. Job Chamock died, and was succeeded by 
Mr. Eyre ; the seat of the Company's trade continuing at Chattanuttee. In 
1693, Sir John Goldesborough was sent out as general superintendent and 
commissary of all the Company’s possessions ; but he died in Bengal in 1694, 
having confirmed Mr. Eyre as chief. In 1696, during the rebellion of Soobha 
Singh, the Butch at Clunsura, the French at Chandemagore, and the English 
at Chattanuttee, requested permission to put their factories in a state of dej 
fence, and the viceroy having in general terms assented, they proceeded with 
great dil^pence to raise walls, bastionsj and tegular fortifications ; the first suf- 
itoed to Ibtrignma by the Moguls within their dominions. 

1697. Aaka Bihann, the grandson of Aurengzebe. In 1700, this prince, in con* 
•littition of a vMuable present, permitted the agmrta of the East India Com- 
fa»x to toe towns with the lands adyacent to their forrified iMtocyi 



118 THE PROVINCE £hww»t, 

viz. Chattanuttee» Govq^poor, and Calcutta. Mr. Eyre the cMe^ jn conse* 
quen^e of instructions from home, having strengthened the woi^ of the Ihtt, 
it was denominated Fort William, in compliment to the kii^r. 

1704. Moorshed Cooly or Jaffier Khan. This nabob, in 1704, tranrferred the 
seat of government i^m Dacca to Moorshedabad, as being mcnc central. The 
annual stirplus revenue, during his administration, amounted to from 130 to 
150 lacks of rupees, (£1,500,000), and was regularly transmitted to l^lhi 
every February, accompanied by valuable presents. In 1706, the whole stock 
of the united East India Company had been removed to Calcutta, where the 
garrison consisted of 129 scddiers, of whom 66 wmre Europeans, exclusive of 
the gunner and his crew. 

1725. Shujah ud Deen, son-in-law of the last governor. He was succeeded by 
lus son, 

1732. Serferaz Khan, who was dethroned, and killed in battle by 
1740. Ali Verdi Khan. It does not appear that this nabob ever remitted any 
part of tlie revenue to Delhi. After the invasion of Hindustan, by Ahmed 
Shah Abdalli in 1746, and the death of the Emperor Mahommed Shah in the 
following year, the Mogul empire may be considered as wholly at an end, 
beyond the immediate vicinity of the city of Delhi. 

1756. Seraje ud Dowlah, grandson to the late nabob, in April this year took 
undisputed possession of the thr^ provinces, but it dora not appear that he 
ever applied for, or received investiture from Ddhi. On the 20th of June he 
captui^ Calcutta, and shut the prisoners, 146, in a room 20 feet square, 
where they all perished, except 23. On the 1st of January, 1757, Oafeutta 
was retaken by Admiral Watson and Colonel Clive; on the 20th of June the 
nabob was defeated at Plassey, and the. beginning of next July amsanited by 
order of the son of his successor, in the 20tb year of his age, and month 
of his reign. For the subsequent native prinoes of Bengal see the mttda 
Moorshedabad, as from this era may be dated the commmuieinmtt of iSm Blltidi 
government in Bengal, although the dewanny, or anthori^ to cdleet the 
rev^ue, was not obtained from the Delhi sovereign until 1765. 

On taking a retrospect of the precedit^ century, it appears that fr^mi ttie 
establishment of Aurengxebe on the material throne, until the invaaion of Nadir 
Shah, a period of e^hty years, BengsJ ei^ed pn^bmid peace tmd 

experienced only a few transient ccunmoticow intmuiEy. Under the goventtaent 
of the two last legitimate viceroys, Jaffimr Khan and Shu^ Khan, who mded is 
iuooiiiiion nearly forty years, fete state of fee country wais eanmehtly 
and fee ttmM Wlittte ffe, aUhoujfe fee annual ttUmto lemitted fe 0(fei m 



ttmoiiY.J OF BENGAL. 119 

ttiiiii^y a croie (10 millions) of rupees, the zemindhffs. their land tax 
direetly into the royal treasury, without the intmention of local ccdlectoia on 
tlm pyk of goY»nment. Even after the usurpation of Ali Verdi Khan, the 
■entindars were so opulent, as at one time to make him a donation of a crore of 
mpees, and at another, of fifty lacks towards defraying the extra expenses 
h^rred in repelling the incursions of the Maharattas. Bengal had then few ex- 
ternal political relations to maintain, end was never exposed to invasion at any 
time except fipom the west. The military establishment was consequently incon* 
siderable, and the gmneral arrangement of the civil administration remarkable for 
economy, simplicity, and dispatch. 

In the first period of British administration from 1757 to 1765, the provinces, 
with the exception of a few districts ceded to the Company, were continued 
under the government of the nabobs, to whom the administration of civil and 
criminal justice, the collection of the revenue, and the general powers of intemsd 
superitttendance and regulation were delegated ; the British reserving the direc- 
tion of foreign policy, a controuling military power, a considerable tribute, and 
commercial advantages more considerable than had ever been conceded by the 
grants of emperors, or the prior usages of the country. In 1765, the dewanay 
was obtained by Lord Clive from the Emperor Shah Allum, under the condition 
of paying him 26 lacks of rupees annually, besides securing him a considerable 
tract of territory in Upper Hindostan; both of which he subsequently forfeited 
in 1771, by putting himself voluntarily into the power of the Maharattas. This 
important and valuable acquisition, observes a native historian, (Seid Gholaum 
Hossein,) was settled without hesitation or argument, as easily as the purchase of 
an ass or any other animal, without envoys or reference, either to die of 
England, or to the Company. 

Lord Clive returned to England in 1767, and was sucoeeded in the govern- 
ment by Mr. Verelst, and on his departure, 24th December, 1769, by Mr. 
CMer. The crops 1768 and 1769 proved scanty, and throughout the month 
of October, 1769, scarcely a drop of rain fell. The almost total Mlure of a third 
cr(^ ^r the deficimicy of two preceding ones, filled the miserable inhabitants 
irith consternation and dismay. Some reliance was still placed on the crops of 
lednaor grain, mmally reaped between February and April, but the r^ceshii^ 
fimwcas diat commonly fttU in what are called the dry months, between Jamaiy 
and May, also Sailed, no rain descending until late in the latter month. The heat 
la ccnjs^imn^ became msupportable, and every sent of herb was in 4 great 
degiee d^ied to a powder. The result was universal despondence, end 
w«8 fiMnded apprehmiii<m of impmdhng destmerien, for the same eaiM^ es* 
tended to Upper HiiidoetaD» and no adjacent country wai capable cffttoliddng 
Itoadeqfaitoii^pfy. 



190 THE PROVINCE [histout. 

Tbe British administrati(»i and the native officen took the alameit an eaily 
period, and adopted such precautionary measmes as were within Uteir power. 
In September 1769, the British and all their dependants wore absolutely pro- 
hibited from trading in grain,-and strict injunctions were, with doubtful policy, 
promulgated against the hoarding of grain, or dealing in it clandestinely, and as 
a measure of necessity 60,000 maunds were stored for the subsistence of the 
army. For these exertions the natives were principally indebted to Mr. Becher, 
of the civil service, who yet on his return to England found himself traduced u 
the author of the famine ; and the purchase of a stock of rice for the army nmy 
have assisted to suggest the notion of a monopoly. [ 

In the northern districts of Bengal the famine raged so early as Novembei^ 
1769, and before the end of April had spread universal desolation. Rice rose 
gradually to four, and at length to ten times its usual cost, and even at these 
prices was to a vast multitude unattainable. Thousands crawled forth to the 
fields, and endeavoured by knawing the bark and chewing the bitter and astrin- 
gent leaves of trees to prolong their miserable existence. In the country, the 
highways and fields were strewed with, and, in the tovms, the streets and pas- 
sages choked with the dying and the dead. Vast numbers flocked to Moorshe- 
dabad the capital, and supplies for that quarter were eagerly sought. Sub- 
scriptions were liberally made, and the Company, the nabob, the ministers, 
and European and native individuals largely contributed to the feeding of the 
poor. In Moorshedabad alone 7,000 were daily fed for several months, and the 
same practice was adopted in other places; but the good effect of these charitable 
endeavours was scarcely perceptible amidst the general mortality. In, and 
around the capital, it became necessary to keep a set of peirsons constantly occu- 
pied in removing the dead, who were placed on raffs by hundreds and floaU^ down 
the river. At length the persons employed in this sad vo<^on fell victiins to 
the noxious effluvia, and for a time dogs, vultures, and jackalls were the <«ily 
scavengers. The air became offensive, and resounded with firantic cries of aU 
ages and sexes in the agonies of death. In many places entire fimiilie*, in otiien, 
whole villages became extinct, forbidden and abhorrent food was resorted; to • 
the child fed on its dead parent; the mother on her child. A glomny calm at 
length succeeded, and it was found that death had ended tiiie miseries of so great 
a portion of the cultivators, that when the new crop reached maturity in maay 
{MTts no proprietors remained to claim it. The number cut off .dmhig period 
of horror has been variously estimated, but prolmbly exceeded t w*! 

ij^tough the desolation was of such uncontroulable magnitude, as to be 

the power of man either to preventer inflict, yet in Emriaiid it eras 
limbed to the very penons who endeavoured to alleviate its ravages, pad 
ctimrs who were riot in the county when It Nof ^ lhi MiA 



aisv&Kt.] OF BBHOAL. 121 

of eirtiibUdiiiig a monopoly of grain, prevent a general belief in die 
westmi world, that tbe inhuman expedient had been resorted to by the seiyants 
the Bast India Ccnnpany. Iliis calumny originated at the French settlement 
(^Olnmderaagore, and from thence was transmitted to Paris, London and Europe 
generally, where it has been registered as truth in the page of history, has been 
made the subject of religious lamentation, has been immortalized in verse, and 
such is &e power of perverse credulity, is still considered as an indelible stain 
on the British character, yet is wholly a phantom, and never had the slightest 
foundation in fact. 

In 1772, Mr. Hastii^pi was appointed Governor, and the next year by the 
interference of the British legislature a new constitution was given to the govern- 
ment of Bengal, -end a majority of the members that were to administer it sent 
from England ; the others being selected from the existing council. About the 
same period, 1772, English supervisors were sent into the districts to superintend 
the collection of the revenue, by which measure the British government stood 
forward as dewan, an office hitherto executed by native functionaries residing at 
Moorshedabad, the old seat of government and of the public exchequer. These 
native ministers, with the officers they employed in the provinces, were now laid 
aside ; and the Company by the aid of their own servants, undertook the collec- 
tion of the revenue. Along with their former controuling power, the governor 
and cotmcil joined the actual cognizance and executive management, which until 
then had remained vested in the native ministers. The ostensible seat of go- 
vernment, and of the exchequer, was removed to Calcutta ; the provinces sub- 
divided into collectorships, and a European civil servant stationed in each district 
as a revenue collector. 

This alteration transferred to the English the civil administration of justice, 
and every interposing medium between them and their Indian subjects beii^; 
displaced, they came to transact business immediately with each other. The 
direct authority of the British now pervaded the interior, and the native or 
country government was abrogated both in form and foot, with the«xception of the 
nabob’s remaining function, that of chief criminal magistrate. The public func- 
itiostariesthen(l772)commenced their operations, and apparently withavery strcn^ 
dbsiiu to alleviate the sufferings of the people, but, owing to the novelty of tlm 
committed many errors, both in finance and in the adnunistration of justice, 
Ifhidh rathear tmided to aggravate them. On this occasion sufficient attmition 
1^ not paid to the essential distinction between the landholder havh% an hate- 
tine s^, wd the revenue servant, whose object was of coune ptar- 
wdfihe of the district under Ida but lie temporary 

pelimtion of the greatost poa^^ 



122 THE PROVINCB [hmtoiit, 

Mh- Hastings continued in the govenunent until 1785, yrfaaia he returned to 
Europe, and was succeeded by Sir John Macpherscm. From the period of dm 
revolution in 1757, the British in Bengal entered into no external offeninve 
alliances, pursuing the system recommended by Lord Clive, whidi was, to tmski 
schemes of conquest and political intrigues, to improve the domestic condititm of 
the provinces, and to procure respect by moderation and good fidth. A deviatimi 
from this principle began in 1774, having for object the pecuniary advantage of 
the Company, and in 1778 a much wider deviation took place, by thecanryingm 
of offensive war, with a view to the acquisition of territory in the west of Indi 
By these measures an enormous debt was incurred, and the public resourc^ 
greatly exhausted; to which evils succeeded the attack of Hyder Ah 'on tl^ 
Carnatic, and a defensive war against him and his allies the French, the sup- 
porting of which fell wholly on Bengal. In this emergency the legislature 
interfered, and regulations were enacted to correct the evils then prevalent in our 
Indian possessions, and also to invigorate the authority of the home administra- 
tion of India affairs. 

Lord Cornwallis reached Bengal in September, 1786, and during his govern- 
ment the last period took place of the British territorial administration of Bengal, 
the land revenue having Wn permanently fixed, and the same enjoyment of 
rights secured to all the inferior occupants of the soil. Very essential reforms were 
also made in the administration of justice. Up to this date the high station of 
supreme c riminal judge remained vested in the nabob, .represented by some 
Mahommedan delegate, who filled the inferior courts by sale with his own 
mean retainers, who, to reimburse themselves, exercised every extortimi imd 
oppression. 

Under this destructive system the country groaned, and with its existence 
the British government was justly reproached. But reluctwt to tou(di the last 
remaining prerogative of the im^b, it long temporized, until the evil became 
insupportable, when an arrangement took place, by the conditions whidi 
the nabob appointed the Governor General in Councii his delegide in the office 
of supreme criminal judge. Lord Cornwallis, and the members iff that bodyiMhen 
took upon themselves the duties of the office, removed the dhkf ciimhml doikrt 
from Moorshedabad to Calcutta, invested the coUeetors of duniicts widi 
teiial powers, and established courts of circuit for the principal divisioos iffie 
country. This great department was in fact wholly renovated, and filled 
men of principle and ability, having adequate salariet, ind snh^etd # 
strongest responsibilities. Even Europeans were placed undn the cognsrimee 
these provincUl laws, and the aut^rity of the odDeetof sabse«|iiHl^ 
stricted to the mere reodpt and disbursement of tiie fvmmt 



OF BENGAL. 123 

of jofitiee bemg transierred to a distinct class of ma^^istrates. Henceforwai:d tiie 
law becaisA l3ie arbiter in all matters of property, between the government ai^ 
its subjects. For tire administration of justice, the Hindoo and Mahconmedan 
codes were in general made the standard for the respective sectaries ctf these 
religions; modified in some instances where they were barbarous cruel, 
^ improved in others having a relation to political economy; but continuing 
in force, so far as regards religious tenets, marriage, caste, inheritance, 
some other points. During this important period the arrangements of the 
Ccmipany s army were new modelled, and its constitution greatly improved. 

The government of Lord Cornwallis lasted until August, 1793, when he vm 
succeeded by Lord Teignmouth, who prosecuted the beneficial measures of his 
pr^ecessor, which were subsequently completed by the Marquis Wellesley. 
This nobleman reached India the 26th of April, 1798, and left Madras for 
England the 20th of August, 1805. 

The Marquis Cornwallis arrived at Calcutta On his second mission in July, 
1806, and died at Ghazipoo;, near Benares, the 6th of next October. He was 
succeeded by Sir George H. Barlow, who held the reins of government until the 
arrival of Lord Minto, July, 1807. Lord Minto returned to Europe in 1813, 
and was. succeeded as Governor General by Lord Moira, now Marquis of 
Hastings, who reached India in October of that year, and who still continues to 
fill that important station.— (Stewart, C. Grant, F. Buchanan, Bruce, Edinburgh 
Review, Gholaum Hossein, Sgc, S^c.') 

THE SUNDERBUNDS. 

(Sandari vana, a forest of SkHmdry Trees.) 

We shall now proceed to give a separate description of the different geogn^hio 
cal and statistical divisions of this province, beginning from the south, with the 
woody tract of country extending for 180 miles along the bay of Bengal, and 
general]^ distinguished by the name of the Sunderbunds. 

This dreary region is composed of a labyrinth of rivers and creeks, all of 
which are salt, except those which communicate immediately with the principal 
of tite Ganges ; those numerous natural canals being so disposed, as to form 
4 comj^te inland navigation. In tracing the sea coast of this Ddta, there are 
4lgfcd opmnngs found, eadi of which appears to be a principal moulh of the 
Ganges. As a strong prwumptive proof of the wandering of that river, ftom 
^ ^ of the Delta to the other* it may be obsmed, that there is no appear* 
m of wgin earth between the 'Kpemh lulls on the east and the diatnct of 
Btnderan on the west^ nor b^ l>aoeliaad Bavdei^ on the north. In aU the 



124 THE PROVINCB [iVKonfiriroi. 

sections of the numerous creeks and riven of the Delta, nothing appatn hut siad 
and black mould in regular strata, until the clay is reached that forms the foiver 
part of their beds ; nor is there any substance so coarse as gravel, dither in the 
Delta, or nearer the sea than 400 miles (by the course of the Ganges), at Ouda* 
nulla, where a rocky point, part of the base of the neighbouring hiUs, projects 
into the river. 

The navigation through the Sunderbunds is effected chiedy by means of the 
tides ; there being two distinct passages, the one named the southern, or Sundef* 
bund passage, and the other the Balliaghaut passage. The firat is the furtheii^ 
about, and leads through the widest and deepest rivers, and opens into the 
Hooghly or Calcutta river, about 65 miles below the town. The Balliaghaut 
passage opens into a shallow lake on the east side of Calcutta. The navigation' 
by these passages extends more than 200 miles through a thick forest, divided 
into numWless islands by a multitude of channels, so various in point of width, 
that a vessel has at one time her masts entangled among branches of trees 
from each side, and at another, sails on a broad expanded river, beautifully 
skirted with woods. The water is every where salt, and the whole forest aban- 
doned to wUd beasts, except here and there a solitary Fakeer. In passing 
through this jungle, the gloomy silence is sometimes relieved by the cooing of 
the dove, the call of the deer and peacock, the cackling of the hen, the crowing 
of the cock, the shrieking of parroquets, and the leaping and springing of m(m- 
kies from branch to branch. On each side, alligators, of an enormous siase, are 
seen asleep or ba.sking in the sun ; so entirely motionless, and so completely re- 
sembling a log of wood, that an inexperienced eye is invariably deceived, and 
takes them for what they resemble, until roused by a shot, when they scramble 
into the water with great activity. During the dry season, the lower shores of 
these rivers are visited by the salt makers mid wood cutters, who then exmeise 
their dreadful trade, at the constant hazard of their lives ; for tigers of the mtwt 
enormous size, not only appear on the maigin, but frequently swim off to, and 
destroy the people in the boats that lie at anchor in the rivers. These passtges 
are open throughout the year; and during the season when the stream of tto 
Ganges is low, the whole trade of Bengal (the western districts excepted) passM 
either by channel creek, or by Balliaghaut ; but chiefly by the former. 

Many natives are annually carried off and eaten by tigers, whfoacuttmg wood, 
and making salt m the u^emess; yet several Mahommedan devotees, Vi^ 
pretend to possess charms against their malice, dwell in miserable huts by the 
river side, and are greatly revered by the passers by, vriio ptensit offsttegi of 
food and cowries, to propitiate their good wilL In.the course of rime, theseseittH 
are riiemselves almost mvariablysi»t«foedo^^ but Om tengm riteg nmrite. rim 



tJKDERBVNDs.] OF BENGAL. 125 

mote they are respected. Besides the huts in which these Fakeers reside> many 
ik^tons of sheds are erected in different parts by the woodcutters, under which 
they raise a small mound of earth, like a grave, and repeat prayers before it, 
when about to commence their operations. But many of these woodcutters are 
Hindoos, who have assigned to various gods and goddesses particular portions 
of the Sunderbunds, in like manner as the Mahommedans have to their respec- 
tive peers, or saints. These Hindoo labourers raise elevations of earth three or 
fbiur inches high, and about three feet square ; upon which they place balls of 
earth, and having painted them red, perform worship before them, offering rice, 
flowers, fruits, and the water of the Ganges. The head boatman then fasts and 
goes to sleep ; during which last operation, a god or goddess inibrms him in a 
dream, where wood may be cut without dread of tigers. 

It is not practicable to bring into culture the salt marshy lands, for the most 
part overflowed by tke tide ; nor is it desirable, while so much good land, in more 
healthy situations, remains imperfectly occupied. The existence of this forest 
also, on the margiiv of the bay, has always been considered important in a politi- 
cal view, as it presents a strong natural barrier against maritime invasion, along 
the whole southern frontier of Bengal. Great quantities of excellent salt^po 
here manufactured, and esteemed of peculiar sanctity, as being extracted fl:t>m 
the mud of the Ganges. The forests also furnish the capital with an inexhaust- 
ible supply of wood for fuel, boat building, and other purposes. 

It has always been understood as a matter of notoriety, that this vast tract of 
waste land is without an owner, except a comparatively small portion on the 
skirts of the forest, belonging to the zemindars ; all the remainder being unques- 
tionably at the disposal of the government. In other parts of the provinces of 
Bengal and Bahar, very large portions of waste land, being the acLiowIedged 
property of the zemindars, and within the limits for which a permanent settle- 
ment has been concluded, are not liable to any assessment when cleared ; having 
heea given up to the zemindars by that arrangement, as the principal source of 
future improvement, by which their estates might be rendered capable of yield- 
ing a more adequate income after discharging the revenue to government. The 
■chief exceptions to this statement are, 1st, the district of Chittagong, where the 
waste lands, or at least the chief part of them, were excepted from the Decen- 
nial settlement, by circumstances peculiar to that division of Bengal ; and se- 
ctmdly, the newly acquired western provinces, and the district of Cuttack, 
where there are large tracts of land not the property of any individual, which 
UMiy in thaae become productive to the revenue of the state. It is possible that 
liitup inquiry may dUwover some scattered ■portions of land not included in the 
settiementi but there is no reason to suppose, that any large source 



126 the province [scKSERBuirsis. 

of present or future revenue of this nature, can be detected in the old provinces, 
by the utmost diligence of research, in any other instances besides the two above 
noticed,' and the southern part of the Delta of the Ganges, called the Sunder- 
bunds, or Soondry forests. 

The well known feet, that this wilderness and labyrinth of rivers is the pro- 
perty of no landholder, but of the sovereign, was the basis on which a plan was 
formerly undertaken for bringing into cultivation the lands situated in the north- 
ern quarter, and recently for clearing the island of Sagor on the south westena 
extremity. The very limited success that attended the first plan, (Mr. Henckdl’s 
in 1783,) the circumstances which led to its relinquishment, the partial success 
which has followed the subsequent unsanctioned prosecution of it by the local 
revenue officers, and the failure of the first measures for clearing Sagor island, 
require to be adverted to, that experienced sources of disappointment may 
be avoided, and requisite corrections introduced where practicable. 

The failure of the first plan may be attributed to the difficulties and embarrass- 
ments arising from tlie claims of the zemindars to the lands granted to new set- 
lers ; the latter naturally desiring to have their grants as near as possible to the 
inhabited and cultivated tracts, which, of course, is the very situation to which 
the adjacent zemindars are likely to have claims of ownership, real, or pretend- 
ed. The same result must s^n be expected, if these pretensions be not finally 
set at rest, and the boundaries of actual cultivation, occupancy, and assessment, 
anterior to the Decennial revenue settlement, be definitively marked off in the 
chart. In support of their claims to the remote portions, the zemindars may 
adduce the exactions occasionally levied from the woodcutters and wax gather- 
ers, passing in their way to and from the Sunderbunds, as establishing their 
right to the soil of the forests to which the woodcutters and others repaired, and 
construing these exactions into the price of the trees, or a consideration for liberty 
to cut the trees, or to gather any other spontaneous production of these woods. 

After the boundaries shall have been conclusively settled by commissioners ap- 
pointed for the purpose, the remainder of the tract, constituting the Sunderbunds, 
may, without scruple or reserve, be declared the exclusive property of govmn- 
ment, and. let to tenants exempt from land-tax for seven years; for it is only ligr 
very great encouragement, that persons can be induced to undertake the labe- 
rious, unhealthy, and dangerous occupation of clearing the forest. It may be 
remarked also, that in this case, there is no sacrifice.made by goyeniBmat ; the 
lands ^ing as they stand completely unproductive to the revmiue, have been so 
from time immemorial, and are likely to continue so for unlo ri a sfdldt ill 
entoprize and exertion be excited by the prospect extraordinary advaati^^. 
ith a view to foe prosecution of these improvements, a survey was njf 



•AAOfi'isz^&iro*] or BBN6AL. V£J 

tiiift tnct in 1812 and 1813, by Captain Morrison of the Bengal Engineers, 
winch fined riie northern boundary at the Jaboona creek, nearly on a line in an 
easterly directimi with Hooghly, and exhibits the country from thence to 
BuddertuUaYT, on the southern bank of the Bedu, in a complete state of cultiva- 
lion; and the result of this survey tended to impress a belief, that considerable 
tracts of land had been brought into cultivation, although c(mcealed fit>m 
government, especially in the Talook, originally granted to Mahommed Abid, 
and Mahommed Summee, where it would appear that 25,000 begahs had be^ 
rendered productive. To prevent a repetition of similar fraudulent abstractions 
of lands Mon^g to the state, a commissioner was appointed in 1814, with 
authority to ftraminp. the validity of all claims whatever, and also to assess the 
western portion of those lands. In 1790, the expense incurred by government 
in attempting to improve the Sunderbunds, amounted to 53,132 rupees, while 
the receipts were only 6,332 rupees, leaving a loss of 47,780 rupees. 

Various derivations have been assigned to the name by which this tract is 
designated. By some it has been traced from Soondery, a species of tree ; and 
also from the words soonder, beautiful, and bon, a forest ; by others the name 
is asserted to be Chunderbund, because it is still comprehended in the ancient 
zemindary of the Chunderdeep. In 1784, the Sunderbunds, Cooch Bahar, and 
Rangamatty, were estimated by Major Rennell to contain 37,649 square miles, 
then conjectured to be all nearly waste, but subsequent investigation has 
considerably curtailed the extent of these supposed wildernesses. — (Cokbrooht^ 
RmteUt Wai^, Rocke, J. Grant, ^c.) 


SAGOR ISLAND (or Ga$tgatagara). 

(The confluence of the Ganges unth the Ocean.) 

An belonging to the province of Bengal, situated on the east side of 
the Hooghly river, about lat, 21'* 40' N. Authorities vary as to the limits 
within which Sagor island, properly so called, is comprehended, some con~ 
it as including a very extensive tract, while others confine it to the 
sontih western extremity of the Sunderbunds, the whole of which is intersected 
by meeks dividing it into separate islets. According to a survey made by 
lieut. Blane, in 1812, by a series of triimglcs. the island of Sagor extends from 
the northern entrance of Channel creek to the sea, comprizing the whole of the 
i^tmited to the westward of Channel creek. An official map of the iriand, 
drawn in 1811, makes it 20 miles in length, by 6 in gmieral breadth. This 
•tetitei is not found so destructive to the crews of rinps, as those forthmr ^ ^ 
mad it is proved by experience* that ^ finther down the river* the 



THE PROVINCE 


128 


[SAGOE IfLAKS. 


less sickness prevails, Sagor being the healthiest andiorage*^on the coast. On 
account Qf the vast expansion of the river, ships have here the advantage of 
lying at a great distance from the shore, enjoy a refreshing circulation of sea 
air, and escape the deleterious exhalations from the mud banks and putnd 
vegetation at Culpee and Diamond harbour. Although the shores are bmrdered 
with trees and thick underwood, the interior in many considerable spots is said 
to be only covered with long grass, which in the dry season may be easily 
removed by fire. 

Sagor island is a celebrated place of pilgrimage among the Hindoos, on 
account of its great sanctity, which arises from its situation at the Junction of 
the holiest branch of the Ganges with the ocean. Many sacrifices are here 
annually performed, and are of two descriptions — of aged persons of both sexes, 
which are voluntary; and of children, which of course are involuntary; and 
the periods fixed for their celebration, are the full moon in November and 
January. The custom of sacrificing children seems confined to the people of 
the eastern districts, who, when apprehensive of not having progeny, promise, 
that, in the event of their having five children, they will devote the fifth in its 
infancy to the Ganges. *In a particular instance which occurred, where the 
parents were apprehensive, that before a fifth child was bom, they might be 
prevented by some new regulation of the British police, they threw their son, 
a boy 12 years of age, into the water, and he having reached the shore by swim- 
ming, was again seized by his own parents, and committed to destruction. 

Although Sagor is held to be peculiarly sacred, from its being considered the 
termination of the Ganges, yet it is not the only, place where rites of this nature 
are practised. The same immolations take place at Allahabad, at Baunsbariah 
in the district of Hooghly, and at Chogdah in that of Nuddea. It is report^, 
however, that the sacrifice at the last mentioned places is become a mere 
ceremony, dnd that although the children be thrown into the Ganges, in con- 
formity to the vow of their parents, they are generally, if not uniformly, 
preserved. 

It does not appear that these sacrifices are sanctioned by any tenet in the 
Hindoo Code ; but according to Hindoo notions, the vow itself has the force of a 
religious dogma, and is considered equally binding as a writien law. In No- 
vember, 1801, thirty-nine persons were destroyed; but in January next, tiie 
Calcutta police sent a party of officers to prevent the repetition of such bar- 
barities, which was effected without disturbance or opposition. Witii respect 
to the self-devotion of the aged and infirm, the practice prevails so univerMAy, 
-and is considered by the Hindoos, under certain circumstances, so instm- 
mmital to their happiiwss in a future state of exktence, that no refulalW ceadd 



OF BENGAL. 


SAGOR ISLAND.] 


129 


eradicate a custom of such antiquity, and sanctioned by express tenets in their 
sacred books. In 1801, only a few Gh>ssains (Hindoo devotees) resided on this 
dreary island, who levied contributions from the pilgrims and shop keepers 
resorting to Sagor, deriving their title thereto from a sage named Capila, who 
is supposed to have lived 2,000 years before Christ. These pilgrims bathe 
where the Ganges and the ocean unite, perform obsequies for their deceased 
ancestors, and visit the temple of Capila, who is here worshipped as a god. 
When Mr. Ward visited the temple, he found in the court a mendicant devotee, 
of the description who constantly keep an arm raised above their heads ; and 
also another religious mendicant, by whom he was informed, that at the close 
of the prior festival, five or six mendicants had taken up their abode within the 
same precincts, but that some of them had been carried off by tigers. The 
lower class of pilgrims pile up bricks by the river side, and make an offering 
of the heap to Capila, as though it were a temple, while others, having made a 
hole in the earth, let the water into it, and then present it to the same deity, 
as if it were a tank. The Padma Puran contains a story respecting a king who 
was married to Sulachana, the daughter of a king who lived near Sagor, and 
the ruins of tanks and works of masonry prove that it was once inhabited. 

In 1812, a European named Beaumont, then engaged in a manufactory of 
buff leather, for the appointments of the Bengal army, received a grant of 300 
begahs of land on this island, for the purpose of carrying on his operations. In 
furtherance of this undertaking he instructed several natives in the use of the 
rifle, to guard his workmen, each of whom was supplied with a rest lance to 
defend himself. In company with these riflemen, Mr. Beaumont went over the 
greater part of the island, and from the examination, was of opinion that it had 
once been in a high state of cultivation, which however appears very impro- 
bable. At that period 1,000 men were employed clearing land on account of 
government, but their progress was so slow, that as they advanced, the jungle 
grew up behind them, and furnished fresh occupation. Mr. Beaumont offered 
to come under engagements wholly to clear the island within ten years, if a 
lease of it were granted to him ; but this proposal being in direct contradiction 
to the system of not permitting Europeans to hold lands in India, on any 
account whatever, could not be acceded to. 

Another European (Mr. William Jones) while exploring the island, discovered 
two complete bastions of brick and mud, the ruins of an old fortress, and he 
also offered to clear the island at his own expense, if a lease of a certain duration 
was grsmted to him. This offer was also declined ; but the attention of govern- 
ment being thus attracted to Sagor, it was - ordered to be surveyed and 
measured, when it was* found to contain 429,806 begahs of dry land. It was 

VOL. I. s 



THE PROVINCE 


ISO 


[SAOOR ISLAND. 


then advertised to be leased to natives for seven years free of all assessment, 
after ^diich the grantees were to receive written documents from government, 
for wliatever portions of land they had brought into actual cultivation, subject to 
a fixed rate in perpetuity, of eight annas per begah of 80 square cubits ; the 
lands not brought under culture within that period to revert to government. 
Proposals for more than the whole quantity of land the island contained were 
soon received from native speculators, Europeans being still excluded ; and the 
plan was in consequence extended to certain lands adjoining that island, encom> 
passed by Channel creek, comprising, by estimation, 100 square miles, appa- 
rently in the same state of wilderness as the original island. In the conditions, 
however, of both sets of leases, a very important omission was subsequently 
discovered, no security having been required by the Bengal government from 
the applicants, that they would complete their undertaking within a given 
period. This oversight had a manifest tendency not only to frustrate the whole 
plan, but to occasion serious loss to the more active of the lease-holders ; for as 
the island swarmed with tigers of the most enormous size, the only effectual 
method of extirpating them was by totally depriving them of shelter ; should 
any of the undertakers therefore be deficient, either in funds or activity, to 
clear their grounds, the remaining jungle, by serving as a cover to those animals, 
would prove such a source of alarm and annoyance to all in the vicinity, as 
would render the cleared lands of no value. 

In 1813, the Bengal government, adverting to the frequent losses of anchors 
and cables at this station, determined to establish mooring chains for the accom- 
modation of ships, and also a depot of anchors, cables, and marine stores, to 
obviate the expense and delay occasioned in the transport of these articles, 
during the south-west monsoon, when ships requiring them, often experienced 
serious disappointment by their non-arrival. They also resolved to fix a vessel 
as a floating store-house for these necessaries, during the south-west monsoon, 
when, owing to the violence of the surf at Sagor, it might be difficult to 
furnish a timely supply from the shore. In pursuance of this plan, four sets of 
mooring chains were laid down in 1813, a tank excavated for the procuring of 
fresh water, and a small tract of jungle adjacent cleared, at a heavy expense to 
the Company, with the view of rendering the anchorage more salubrious; but it 
is greatly to be apprehended that no native efforts will ever accomplish this de- 
sirable object, and it might perhaps be eligible for the Supreme Government, in 
this one instance, to relax the regulation (otherwise laudable and necessary), 
which prohibits Europeans from becoming landholders, and permit them to 
settle in this island. Should a measure of this kind be adopted, a maritiioe 
city would soon start up sufficient for all the purposes of external comrade, 



OF BENGAL. 


131 


edmonstone’s isle.] 

and thereby obviate the necessity of so many Europeans proceeding up the 
river to Calcutta, and from thence penetrating to the interior. If the ships 
could also at once receive their cargoes, and be dispatched from Sagor, the 
voyage would be greatly expedited, and the expense of port charges and in- 
surance materially lessened. 

Since the above remarks were written, the plan then recommended has ac- 
tually taken place, government having leased the whole island to an association, 
composed of Europeans as well as natives, who have subscribed the sum of 
250,000 rupees, subdivided into shares of 1,000 rupees each. The terms are, 
that it shall be free of rent for the first thirty years, and pay only four annas per 
begah (about 1j. 9</. per acre) ever after. The undertaking had in consequence 
commenced with the characteristic vigour of Europeans, and prior to the 1st of 
April, 1819, under the able management of Dr. Dunlop, one fifth of the island 
had been already cleared, and a broad passage effected through the remainder. 
In the course of these operations frequent vestiges of old buildings occurred, and 
the tigers perceiving that their rival, man, was going to resume his sway, were 
gradually withdrawing themselves to more secluded situations . — ( Public MS. 
documents. Police Reports MS. Ward, Johnson, J. P. Larkins, S^'C. S^c. S^'c.) 

Edmonstone’s Isle. — ^An island of alluvial formation, which in 1813 had not 
as yet raised its head above the water, and in 1818, had got only one stage 
beyond a sand bank. It lies in and about lat. 21° 35' N. long. 88® 20' E. and 
occupies the position laid down in the charts, as that of Sagor shoal, or a 
shoal on the eastern end of the upper part of Sagor sand, where, in 1818, it 
formed a distinct, and manifestly increasing island, under the shelter of the 
main land of Sagor, which separates the two openings of this branch of the 
Ganges. In January of the year above mentioned, it was about two miles long 
from east to west, and about half a mile in breadth from north to south. The 
western extremity is thrown up in small hillocks, some of which are consider- 
ably above the level of the sea, and the centre is so much above high water 
mark, as to be beyond the lash of the ocean, unless under very extraordinary 
circumstances. The width of the channel, when last examined, was between 
4 and 5 miles, but many shoals were beginning to emerge, and the greater part 
of the intervening space was too shallow even for vessels of small burthen ; so 
that in the course of a few years it will probably be filled up, and join the two 
islands. 

At present the margin of the island is strewed over with trunks of trees, 
branches, leaves, roots, seeds, &c. washed from the opposite coasts, and brought 
down by the river ; indeed the quantity of wood is so great, that boats proceed 
to it for the purpose of collecting fuel. On the uncovered spots, the seeds are 

s2 



THE PROVINCE 


m 


[district or 


spontaneously sowing themselves, and some of the branches taking root, the 
vegetation being greatly promoted by the manure deposited by sea birds, and 
by the exuviae of numberless small crabs. The central portion of the island in 
1818, already exhibited a verdant appearance, and at a distance appeared to 
be covered with a thick and vivid grass, among which a number of small 
shrubs and trees were springing up. The principal plants are the ipomea pes 
caprae, and the salsola, especially the first, which is very plentiful, and causes 
the green appearance of the centre of the isle. This creeper strikes a strong and 
deep root into the sand, after which it runs along the surface for many yards, 
and being covered with fresh drifts of sand, it shoots up its winding branches 
in every direction, crossing and recrossing, until it forms a compact and intricate 
net work, binding the soil and entangling every fresh accession. This addition 
to the Bengal Province was first brought into notice by the marine survey of 
Sagor, in 1816. As yet it is only visited by Wood cutters and fishermen, who, 
prior to 1818, had erected two huts thereon, dedicated to Siva, but no perma- 
nent habitation had then been established . — (Afiscellaneous printed documents. 


THE DISTRICT OF BACKERGUNGE. 

This district was formed in the year 1800, from the southern quarter of the 
then too extensive district of Dacca Jelalpoor ; and in 1801, the courts of justice 
and the residence of the judge and magistrate were removed from the town of 
Backergunge to Burrishol, which was made the capital of the district. A con- 
siderable proportion of this division named Boklah, or Ismaelpoor, extends 
chiefly along the western bank of the Puddah, or great Ganges, nearly to its 
mouth at the island of Rabnabad, which forms the south eastern angle of the 
Bengal Delta. About A. D. 1584, this territory was overwhelmed, and laid 
waste by an inundation, which was succeeded by the ravages of the Mughs, 
aided by the Portugueze then settled in Chittagong, from the combined effect 
of which it has not recovered to this day, and there still exist the ruins of three 
old mud forts built for defence against the incursions of the Mughs. In 1801 it 
was estimated to contain 4,564 square miles. 

The lands of Backerg^unge, notwithstanding their low level and proximity to 
the sea, are very capable of cultivation, being annually, during the periodi(»l 
rains, overflowed by the fresh water of, and fertilized by the slimy mould depo- 
sited by the Ganges. In consequence of this redundant moUtuce, and a hot 
sun. It produces annuaUy two abundant crops of rice, and fucniahea a con- 
siderable proportion of that description of grain which ia conaumed in. and 

durinVih ™”i j * t* **** purpose, the dry season crop produced 
during the cold weather answers best. Front the contiguity of thMiviaiw to 



BACKEROUITGE.] OF BENGAL. 133 

the Sundeibunds, bemg almost a component part, the innumerable rivers by 
which it is intersected, and the quantity of jungle still covering its surface, it not 
only abounds with alligators and tigers of the most enormous size, but has been 
firom the femotest periods greatly infested by dacoits, or river pirates. These da- 
coities, or gang robberies, are often attended with torture and murder, to compel 
the disclosure of concealed treasure, and always on the subsequent trial with 
perjury and subornation of perjury, practised for the most atrocious purposes. 

A strong establishment of boats and sepoys has always been kept up in this 
district ; but their efforts, and those of the magistrates, were for above thirty 
years wholly unavailing to suppress, or even to diminish the number of depreda- 
tors, every remedy attempted appearing to aggravate the calamity. A long perse- 
verance, however, at last succeeded, and in 1814 the judges of circuit reported, 
that the Backergunge district was in a state of security from violent depredation, 
which a few years back would have been considered a vain hope, and that 
offences of other descriptions did not prevail to any great extent. Here, as in 
other quarters of Bengal, the obstacles to the suppression of crime do not 
originate from any open resistance to the magisterial authority, but from the 
incredible difficulty of discriminating the innocent from the guilty. 

In 1801 the officiating magistrate was of opinion, that although the cultivation 
and population had improved, the commerce and interchange of traffic had 
declined, and by the partitioning operations of the law of inheritance, the landed 
estates had been so divided and subdivided, that no possessor of a large estate 
remained. In the above year the total population was estimated at 926,723 inha- 
bitants, in the proportion of five Hindoos to three Mahommedans, many of whom 
reside in boats the whole' year. In the southern quarter there still exist several 
original Portugueze colonies, of probably two centuries duration, which exhibit 
a melancholy example to what an extreme degree it is possible for Europeans to 
degenerate. They are a meagre, puny, imbecile race, blacker than the natives, 
who hold them in the utmost contempt, and designate them by the appellation of 
Caula Ferenghies, or black Europeans . — (Public MS. Documents, J. Gtunt, 
Crisp, ^‘C. <§*c. 

Backergunge. — This place stands 120 miles east from Calcutta, and was the 
head station of the district until 1801, when the courts of justice were removed 
to Burrishol, since which event it has much declined in trade and consequence. 
Lat. 22" 42' N. long. 89» 20' E. 

Burrishol. — This town is a recent creation, and may date its existence from 
the transfer of the courts of justice in 1801. It stands on the point of an oblong 
island, formed by the broad branches of the great Ganges, 72 tnileB south firom 
Pacca, and has in its vicinity an immense expanse of water, with a wonderfiil 
fficility of inland navigatiem. Lat. 22” 46' N. 90” 17' £. 



134 the province t»«TB*CT or 

SuTALURV.— A small town in the Backergunge district, 108 miles east from 
Calcutta. Lat. 22'* 38' N. long. 90* 10' E. 

Gurnudy. — A considerable town, situated on the west bank of the great 
branch of the Ganges, named the Puddah. Lat. 22° 59' N. long. 90* 11' E. 

Rabnabad Isle (Ravana abad). — A low muddy island in the district of 
Backergunge, formed by the sediment deposited by the Rabnabad river, one of 
the branches of the Ganges, and separated from the main land by a very narrow 
strait. At neep tides it is scarcely above water, and at spring tides it is nearly ! 
submerged. It is notwithstanding covered with jungle, and abounds with deer, , 
tigers, and alligators. In length it may be estimated at 15 miles by five the 
average breadth. 

Dlckinshahabazpoor. — ^This large island is situated at the junction of the 
great river Megna, formed by the united waters of the Ganges and Brahma* 
putra, from the sediment of which it has originated. In length it may be esti- 
mated at 30 miles by 13 the average breadth. It is very low land, and at spring 
tides during the rains is almost wholly submerged. In the channels between 
Duckinshahabazpoor and the neighbouring islands, the bore, caused by the 
sudden influx of the tide, prevails with great violence, and renders the navigation 
extremely dangerous. Salt of an excellent quality is manufactured here oi> 
government account, at an establishment subordinate to the Bulwa and Chit- 
tagong agency. 


DISTRICT OF JESSORE (Jasar, the Bridge). 


This district is situated in the southern quarter of Bengal, between the 22d 
and 24th degrees of north latitude. To the north it is bounded by the Great 
Ganges ; to the south by the sea ; on the west it has Nuddea and Hooghly ; and 
on the east Dacca Jelalpoor and Backergunge. 


The southern portion of this district is in the Sunderbunds, and composed of 
salt marshy islands, formed by the alluvion and successive changes of the 
cliannels of the Ganges, and covered with wood. Some parts lie so low that 
un s, or embankments, are necessary to protect them from inundation, the 
expense for repairing which in 1815 amounted to 18,000 rupees. The land w, 

fertile, and were it adequately peopled and cultivated, 
might be made to produce inexhaustible supplies of rice, for which the soil and 

ttKt 1 pn’portion of the loutheiii 

tinlg. Z l IT I / ‘I* >•«« “»• 

egree, to infest the numberless branches of the Ganges 



jEssoftE.] OF BENGAL. 135 

by which it is intersected. As may be inferred from the above description, the 
bridges are few, and the roads bad ; the best being that from Calcutta to Dacca, 
which is kept in repair by the government convicts. Permanent edifices are 
very few, and mostly of Hindoo origin ; neither are there any fortresses either of 
brick or mud. 

Since the Decennial settlement, cultivation has certainly been considerably 
extended and improved, probably to one-sixteenth of the original quantity, and 
many unauthorized encroachments have been made by the adjacent zemindars 
on the company’s property in the Sunderbunds. The uncultivated and fallow 
land, excluding the Sunderbunds, was estimated in 1 802, to bear the proportion 
of one-eighth to the cultivated, and the jungle or waste land permanently uncul- 
tivated at one-sixteenth of the whole. The most valuable articles of produce 
are salt, indigo, tobacco, ganjah, mulberry, pawn, betel nut, and long pepper. 
Of these, salt is monopolized as a source of revenue by the government ; and 
mulberry trees only raised with a view to the silk investment : but the indigo 
cultivation is greatly on the increase. 

In 1802, the zemindar’s profit in Jessore was estimated at 20 percent, on the 
land-tax ; but many estates are so divided and subdivided into such minute por- 
tions, as to, occasion much litigation on the part of the proprietors, and infinite 
trouble to the revenue officers. In the same year, the sum received for the pro- 
duce of the rent free lands, was estimated at only 7 per cent, on the land-tax 
of the whole ; and on comparison, the government lands subject to the land-tax 
were found generally in a better state of cultivation, than those exempt from that 
burthen. When lands are exposed to sale, on account of revenue deficiencies, 
the most frequent purchasers are the wealthy native inhabitants of Calcutta. 
In 1814, the land-tax paid to Government amounted to 1,197,561 rupees, and the 
abkarry to 10,486 rupees. 

In 1801, by the directions of the Marquis Wellesley, then Governor-General, the 
board of revenue in Bengal circulated various questions to the judges and collec- 
tors of the different districts, on statistical subjects. The result of their replies 
tended to establish the fact, that the district of Jessore contains 1,200,000 inha- 
bitants, in the proportion of nine Mahommedans to seven Hindoos. In 1813, 
gang robbery or dacoity, formerly so prevalent in this territory, had become 
nearly extinct ; only three instances having been reported in the course of the 
whole year. 

The zemindary of Jessore was originally in the revenue books named Yusef- 
poor, and was conferred early in the 18th century, by Jaffier Khan, or Kishenram, 
a Khaist from Orissa. The principal towns are Jessore, or Moorley, Culna, and 
Mahmudpoor. — (J. Grant, W. Parker, J, Shahspear, Ssc. fy:.) 



ISQ THE PROVINCE [district of 

Mawmitcshi (Muhmudshahi). — A zemindary in the Jessore district, which 
was formerly entirely surrounded by that of Rajshahy. In 1784, it contained 
844 square miles, and had been held by the Brahmin family of Deo from the 
time of the SoubahdarJaffier Khan. Like the rest of the southern parts of Ben*> 
gal, it is intersected by innumerable branches of the Ganges, and well situated 
for inland commerce. In some parts the mulberry is cultivated, but rice and es- 
culents are its staple productions. — (J. Grant„^'c.) 

Nuldingah (Naladanga). — A town in the Jessore district, 74 miles N.E. by ( 
N. from Calcutta, lat. 23° 2o N. long. 89° 7' E. \ 

Moohlev (Murali ). — A town in the Jessore district of which it is the capital, 
02 miles N. E. from Calcutta, lat. 23° 7' N. long. 89* 15' E. It is named also ' 
Jessore, and is the residence of the judge and collector 

CuLNA (Khalam). — A town in the Jessore district, 70 miles E. N. E, from 
Calcutta, lat. 22“ 50' long. 89° 32' E. This was formerly the head station of the 
Roymungul salt agency. 

Boosxah. — A town and zemindary in the Jessore district, 50 miles W. by 
S. from Dacca, lat. 23*31' N. long. 89* 39' E. 

Mahmudpoor. — A town in the Jessore district, 75 miles N. E. from Calcutta, 
lat. 23° 24' N. long. 89° 34' E. 

Miuzanagub. — A town in the Jessore district, 53 miles N.E. from Calcutta, 
lat. 22“ 66' N. long. 89° 13' E. 

Rvnabad (Ghainabad). — This small village is situated on the west side of the 
Boirub (Bhairava) river, 80 miles E. by N. from Calcutta, lat. 22* 42' N. long. 
89* 44' E. For many years after the British obtained possession of Bengal, ru- 
mours were current, that extensive ruins of magnificent cities existed among 
the jungles of the Sunderbunds, and particularly in the vicinity of Rynabad ; 
but after repeated investigations, none have been discovered, nor is it probable, 
that any very ancient ruins should be found in a territory, which is itself of re- 
cent formation and destitute of fresh water. 

THE DISTRICT OF HOOGHLY. 

This district is situated between the 22d and 23d degrees of north latitude, 
and is of recent creation, being composed of sections from the different districts 
adjacent, and is the least extensive within the division of the lower provinces. 
To the north it is bounded by the districts of Burdwan and Kishenagur ; on the 
south it has the sea ; on the east Jessore and the Sunderbunds ; and on the wesL 
Midnapoor. The whole of this territory consists of low fiat land, very fertile, 
but much covered with jungle on the sea coast, where it is remaricably unhealthy. 
Like the other southern divisions, it has an excellent inland navigation, being 



OF BENGAL. 


HdOOHlt.] 


137 


wtMaected Is every direction by rivers and their branches, which were formerly 
rendered ahnost impassable by the numbers of dacoits or river pirates. On 
the banks of the rivers near to the sea, salt of an excellent quality is inanu* 
ftctured on govenunent account, which, in the opinion of the natives, possesses 
peculiar sanctity, as being extracted from the mud of the most sacred branch 
of the Ganges. The cultivation and population of this division are certainly im- 
proving, and some reli^ous and substantial buildings have been constructed on 
the banks of the river ; but, notwithstanding its proximity to Calcutta, which 
presents a constant market for its surplus produce, it is surprising how lai^ a 
proportion still remains in a state of nature, the asylum of tigers, alligators, 
and a great variety of insects, vermin, and reptiles. 

In this district, within the jurisdiction of the magistrate, there are no semina- 
ries for education of any repute. In 1801, there were 30 students instructed 
in the Persian and Arabic, at Seetapoor, at an institution maintained by the pro- 
duce of lands under a grant confirmed by Governor Hastings. The principles 
of Hindoo law are taught by pundits in about 150 private schools, in each of 
which the students muster from 5 to 20. The scholars here, unlike similar esta- 
blishments in Europe, are maintained by such preceptors as can afford it, and 
the rest by contributions from the more wealthy inhabitants. Almost every vil- 
lage has its resident instructor, by whom reading, writing, and accounts are 
taught ; and the inhabitants of this tract, generally, in consequence of their ccm- 
tiguity to the Presidency, are better acquainted with the existing laws of the 
country, than the individuals of most other districts. In 1801, the total number 
was estimated at one million, in the proportion of three Hindoos to one Mahom- 
medan. In 1814, the town of Chandercona contained 18,145 ; and that of Keer- 
pay 10,525 inhabitants. 

In 1813, although the crime of gang robbery, attended with torture, had ex- 
perienced some diminution, still the number of robberies coming under that de- 
nomination, unattended vrith aggravating circumstances, was greater than in any 
district within the Calcutta division of circuit. Of 777 persons siq[»posed to 
have been concerned in the perpetration of this crime, during the course that 
year, only 78 were apprehended and brought to trial ; and cff ffie computed 
value of property plundered, amounting to 13,795 rupees, only 130 rupees worth 
were recovered by the police officers. Gang robberies, committed by Choars, 
wme then very prevsdent in the south-west quarter of Ho<^^y, bordering on 
M^bapoor, fitmn whcmce these miscreants bad been in a greid measure expelled 
uotd (^persed, by the exertions of the mi^trate. niese-gangs Choars ge- 
nei^y conristed of fitom 30 to 00 men, but without any mrgponxttrioit ot lepto 
of decided pre emin«M?e . Upon the wh<^ in 1814, dmtdlstii^ 

■ TOL, I, ' T' 



138 THE PROVINCE [oimicTor 

to its size and vicinity to the seat of government, was considered comparatively 
much bei^ind as to improvement in the state of its internal police.— ('/. Sh<^ 
peare. Brook, W. B. 4'c. ^c. ^.) 

Hooohlv River.— This river communicates its name to the district just 
described, which it intersects, and is itself formed by the junction of the 
Cossimbazar and Jellinghy, the two westernmost branches of the Ganges, after 
which it flows past Calcutta, and is the only branch of the Ganges that is navi' 
gated by large vessels, although the entrance is dangerous, and the channel up 
to the town of extremely difficult passage. When it is joined by the Roop' 
narrain ri ver, a very expanded sheet of water is formed, but it has many shoals ; 
and as it directly faces the approach from the sea, while the Hooghly turns to 
the right, it occasions the loss of many vessels, which are carried up the 
Roopnarrain by the force of the tide. The eddy, caused by the bend of the 
Hooghly, has at this place formed a most dangerous sand, named the James 
and Mary, around which the channel is never the same for a week together, 
requiring frequent surveys. 

The bore, or sudden influx of the tide, commences at Hooghly point, where 
the river first contracts its width, and is perceptible above Hooghly town. So 
quick is its motion that it hardly employs four hours in travelling from one to 
the other, although the distance is nearly 70 miles. It does not run on the Cal- 
cutta side, but along the opposite bank, from whence it crosses at Chitpoor, 
about four miles above Fort William, and proceeds with great violence past 
Bamagore, Duckinsore, &c. On its approach, boats must immediately quit 
the shore, and seek for safety in deep water in the middle of the river, which is 
little affected. At Calcutta it sometimes occasions an instantaneous rise of 
five feet. 

Only that part of the Ganges which lies in the most direct line from Gan* 
goutri to Sagor island, is considered holy by the Hindoos, and named the 
Ganga, or Bhagirathi. The Hooghly river therefore of European geographers 
is considered the true Ganges.— f Rennell, Lord Vakntia, Col. Cokbrooke, %c. 4’c.J 

Hooghlt. This ancient town is situated on the west side of the Hooghly 
river, 26 miles above Calcutta. Lat. 22® 64' N. long. 88® 28' E. During the 
Mogul government this was a town ^f great consequence, being the bunder, or 
port of the western arm of the Gamges, where the duties on merchandize were 
collected. The French, Dutch, Portugueze, and Danes, had each a fwJtory here, 
and subsequently were each permitted to possess a town; all comprehended 
within the extent of ten miles along the river. Hooghly is now compafliatively 
of bttle note ; but is still large, prosperous, and well mhabited. By Abul Fazed 
in 1582, it is described as follows. “ There are two enposium a ffluSe distant 



HOOOHIT.] OF BENGAL. 139 

fitom each other, one called Satgong, the other Hooghly with its dependencies; 
both of which are in the possession of Europeans.” It is remarkable that the 
of Hooghly is not mentioned in Faria de Souza’s History of Bengal, where 
it is named Golin. 

The Dutch, in 1625, and the English, in 1640, were permitted to build 
factories at this place, but their trade was greatly restricted, and subjected to 
continual exactions. In 1632, the first serious quarrel that occurred between 
the Moguls and Europeans happened at Hooghly, which then belonged to the 
Portuguese. The Moguls invested it with a strong army, and the siege con- 
tinued three months and a half, during which time the Portuguese made many 
offers of submission, and agreed to pay a tribute ; but all terms were rejected 
by the besiegers, who, having sprung a mine, carried the place by assault. The 
slaughter of the Portuguese was very great ; many in attempting to escape to 
their boats were drowned, a few reached their ships in safety, but these also 
were immediately attacked. The captain of the largest ship, on board of which 
were embarked 2000 men, women, and children, with all their wealth, rather 
than yield to the Mahommedans, blew up his ship, and many others imitated 
this example Out of 64 large vessels, 57 grabs, and 200 sloops, which were 
anchored opposite to the town, only one grab and two sloops got away ; and 
these owed their safety to the bridge of boats, constructed by the Moguls below 
Hooghly, at Seerpoor, having been broken by catching the flames from the con- 
flagration of the fleet. 

In 1686, the English were involved in hostilities by the imprudence of three 
of their soldiers, who quarrelling in the bazar with some of the Nabob’s 
peons, were wounded. The garrison of the English factory were called out, 
an action ensued, in which the Nabob’s troops were defeated ; 60 of them 
luting a considerable number wounded, and a battery of 1 1 guns spiked 

and destroyed. At the same time the town of Hooghly was cannonaded by the 
fleet under Captain Nicholson, and 500 houses burned.. This was the first 
action fought by the English in Bengal, but the result was a disgraceful peace ; 
the Mogul government then subsisting in full vigour. An arrangement was 
afterward made with the foujdar, or military superintendant of the district; 
but tlM> agent and council, considering that Hooghly waa an open town, retired 
<m the 20th of December to Chuttanuttee, or Calcutta. ('Bruce, Stemrt, 

KjaxaeoT.-— 'Dus town is the seat of a commercial residency, and stands in 
hL 29^ 40' N. long. 87*’ 44' E. 50 miles W. N. W. firom Calcutta. In 1814/ it 
fimnd after investigation to contain 10>525 inhalntants. 

T'2 



tHE PROVINCE [m«TMCT or 

Hidjellee (Hyala). — This town stands on tbe west side of the Hooghly, 
65 miles S. S. W. from Calcutta, and is actually with the small district attached 
to it, situated in the province of Orissa, but it has been so long, and ao inti- 
mately connected with the Bengal province, that it may now be considered aa 
an integral portion. Lat. 21® 50' N. long. 88® 10' E. 

The land about Hidjellee is of two descriptions; the first, fresh or arable, is i 
preserved from the inundation of the tides by mnbankments running parallel to, 
and at some distance from the rivers and numerous inlets which intersect the 
whole territory, and the repairs of which, in 1815, cost 27,000 rupees. The 
second, or salt land, is that portion exposed to the overflowing of the tides, 
usually called the churs, or banks, where mounds of earth, strongly impr<^> 
nated with saline particles, named kalaries, or working places, are formed, 
each of these heaps is estimated, on a medium, to yield 233 maunds (80 pounds 
each) of salt, requiring the labour of seven manufacturers, who, by an easy 
process of filtration and boiling, are enabled to complete their operations from 
November to June, before the setting in of the periodical r ains . 

During the Mogul government Hidjellee was the capital of a foujdarry, or 
military station, comprehending 1,098 square miles, extending along the margin 
of the Hooghly river, where it unites with the Bay of Bengal. It was first dis- 
membered from the Soubah of Orissa, and annexed to Bengal, in the reign of 
Shah Jehan. The fresh water lands are very productive, and yield excellent 
crops, when properly cultivated ; and with a view to the improvement of the 
inland navigation, two canals have been cut within the last ten years, but the 
result has not proved so successful as was anticipated, the tolls not defraying 
the current expenses, and on the whole they have proved a losing concern to 
government, at whose expense they were constructed. In 1814, the diatrict 
attached to this place yielded s land revenue of 291,448 rupees, ezdoiiTe nf an 
immense sum annually realized by the salt manufactured. 

In 1687, during a rupture with Aurengzebe, the East India Company’s ibrees 
took and fortified Hidjellee, and destroyed above 40 sail of that emperot^s ves- 
sels. They afterwards repulsed the repeated attacks made by the Nalxd> of 
Bengal, although the garrison was in a very sickly state.— f/. Grant, JUS, 
nmts, Bruce, ^c.) 

CuLPEE.— This town stands on the east bank of the river Hoo^y, ^ 
miles m a straight line below Calcutta. Lat. 22* O' N. long. SS* a«' E. T|« 
^ores here are a bed of mud, and the banks of the river covered with Heel mil 
f Opposite to the anchorage of the ships, which lie ahm M t milhi 

om e 8 ore, is a creek, and at ibi entrance the town <rf Cnf^pee ll 



iiMH»ai.T.] OF BENGAL. l4l 

The crews ni the ships lying here suffer dreadfully frtun its extreme unhealtiii* 
ness, numbers daily Ming sacrifices to the pestilential exhalations fix>m the 
rotten jungle and mud. — ( Jahtmn, 

KEnoEEEE (Kyati ). — A village and bazar in tiie province of Bengal, situated 
at tlie mouth of l^e Hooghly river, which here expands to a breadth of nearly 
nine miles across. Lat. 2V 55' N. long. 88° 16' £. This is a much healthier 
station than Diamond harbour, and ships of war, unless compelled by strong 
reasons, should never go higher up the river. A naval officer on the part of the 
Company is established here, who makes daily reports to the govemmei\t of 
the ships that arrive and sail. During the rainy season, ships sometimes lie here 
for along time, on account of the freshes of the river. On shore the country is a 
low, swampy, salt morass, and particularly pernicious to European constitutions. 
Many tropical fruits and other refreshments may be procured here. 

Diakono Harbour. — A harbour in the river Hooghly, about 34 miles below 
Calcutta in a straight line, but much more by the windings of the river. This place 
and anchorage are singularly unhealthy, especially in the months of July, August, 
and September, daring and after the periodical rains. This is partly owing to 
the proximity of low swampy shores, where a number of sluggish currents open 
into the stream of the Hooghly, floating down a quantity of vegetable and 
animal substances, which 'emit the most offensive vapours. To these natural 
evils, are superadded many artificial ones, all contributmg to the destruction 
of the seamen. The great precautions, taken from the best motives, to prevent 
their procuring wholesome spirits, drives them to the use of the most deleterious 
species of Bengal arrack, which no vigilance on the part of their officers could 
prevent. Their food consists of half ripe, half rotten fruit, stale eggs, and over- 
driven beef, and their drink on shore most execrable water, generally procured 
from a filthy puddle. Add to this the society of loathsome prostitutes, excessive 
labour in the sun, want of manly recreation during their leisure hours, and the 
absence of the requisite medical assistance, and the combined effect will account 
fbr the mortality of the ships’ crews, while lying at Diamond Harbour. In 1814, 
Hie Bengal government set about seriously to endeavour to remedy these evils j 
but if practicable, it would be preferable to abandon this place of skulls, and 
resoart scdely to Sagor island. 

AtDiam^ Harbour the Company’s ships usually unload their outward, and 
receive on board the greater part of their homeward cargoes, from whence they 
{maceed to Sager roada, whm the remainder is shipped. The government ground 
hm tEHariiata of about 800 begahs, enclosed by an embankment raised to prevent 
immdatioii* and oontainiiig the Company’s warehouses for ships’ stores, rig- 
Hie i^ioyiiaoM and refiresh^ta, such as they are, are purchased at 



THE PROVINCE 


142 


[THK JUKOLB MAHA.U. 


the neighbouring villages. The adjacent country is in a lugh state of cultivation, 
and yields plentiful crops, although strongly impregnated vrith salt, occasioned 
by the inundation which occurs towards the autumnal equinox . — (John 

^'C. ^'C.) 

Fulta (Phalata, fertility ). — ^This large village stands on the east bank of the 
river Hooghly, 20 miles S. S. W. in a straight direction, but much more by the 
winding of the river. Lat. 22® 19' N. long. 88® 20' E. The anchorage hew 
is safe, ships being protected from the swell of the sea. The bottom is a stim 
clay, in which the anchors hold so fast, that it is difficult to weigh them. 1 

Tumlook. — ^This town isi included in the Hooghly district, and stands about \ 
36 miles S. W. from Calcutta. Lat. 22® 17' N. long. 88® 2'E. The lands in 
the neighbourhood lie extremely low, and are protected from inundation by 
embankments, which are supported at a great expense, (in 1815, 30,000 rupees,) 
but are, notwithstanding occasionally broken by the freshes, and the adjacent 
country submerged. Tumlook is the head quarters of an agency for the manu> 
facture of salt on account of government, connected with that of Hidjellee. The 
article is prepared by filtration from the inud of the Hooghly river, and is 
esteemed of peculiar value by the Hindoos, as being extracted on the banks of 
the holiest branch of the Ganges. 

Major Wilford is of opinion, that there were in remote times kings of 
Tamralipta or Tumlook, one of whom, A. D. 1001, sent an embassy to China. 
He also thinks that by the inhabitants of that empire he was styled Tammonielieou. 
— ( Sir H, Stretchy, Wilford, ^c.) 

Satgong (Satgrama, the seven villages ). — ^This was formerly a town of note, 
but is now an inconsiderable village, situated on a small creek ofMhe river 
Hooghly, about four miles to the N. W. of the town of Hooghly in Bengal. In 
1566, and probably later, it was a large trading city, in which the European 
merchants had their factories for procuring the productions of Bengal, and 
at that period of time the Satgong river was capable of floating small vessdb. — 
(Rennelly^c.) 

CuAKDEECoKA. — Tlus Is a Considerable town in the Hot^hly district, aboot 
65 miles west by north from Calcutta. Lat 22® 45' N. long. 87* 44' E. In 
1814, the population of this place when investigated by Blr. Bayley amounted to 
18,145 militants. 


DISTRICT OF THE JUNGLE MAHALS. 

This district, like the preceding, consists of dissections fipom tiib cont^amts 
old jurisdictii^, but the limits of the whole are in this quarter so qKticmdy 
defined, that it is impossible to ffiscrinunate them. 11m head quiurterii of the 



OF BENGAL. 


TIE 24 EEEOVHHABS.] 


143 


puUic ftmctionaiies are at Bancoorah, near Chatna. Lat 23* 20' long. 87* lO' E. 
The name of tlm district implies a waste territory, and backward stage of 
ciirilization, yet it appears from report of the circuit judge in 1815, that no 
instance of gang robbery or arson had occurred during the six previous months. 
Teak frees have been planted at the expense of government, both at Bauleah, 
and in the Jungle Mahals, where in 1813, some plants brought from the botanical 
garden had attained the height of 25 feet. 


DISTRICT OF THE TWENTY-FOUR PERGUNNAHS. 

This district is situated chiefly to the south of Calcutta, on the east side of the 
river Hooghly. In extent it comprehends about 882 square miles, and was first 
formed into a landholder’s jurisdiction in December, 1757, and constituted the 
zemindary of the Company, and jaghire of Lord Clive. In 1765, a ten years’ 
prolongation of the jaghire to Lord Clive was obtained, after which it reverted to 
the East India Company. Since that period, from the quantity of waste land 
brou^t into cultivation, and the number of ghauts, ( landing places), religious 
temples, and other substantial buildings constructed, it may be inferred, that this 
territory has progressively improved in cultivation, population, and commerce. 
In 1801, there were within its boundaries 190 seminaries, in which Hindoo law, 
grammar, and metaphysics, were taught. These institutions were maintained 
from the produce of certain charity lands, and by the voluntary contributions of 
opulent Hindoos ; the annual expense was estimated at 19,500 rupees. At that 
period there was but one madrissa, or college, for instruction in the Mahom- 
medan law. This district contains no brick or mud forts, but such as are 
extremely old, or in ruins, and although so close to the presidency, is greatly 
infested by gang robbers and river pirates. In 1813 the police was considered 
as in an evident state of improvement ; but under many disadvante^es, owing to 
its local situation, and to its surrounding the actual capital of India, which will . 
always create great difficulties in the maintenance of an efficient police from its 
proving a focus of attraction to the dissolute and dishonest. 

In the twenty-four peigunnahs, the zemindar's profit is supposed to be con- 
siderably more than ten per cent, on their land tax, some, in particular, not 
pajdng one rupee per thousand of the rents they receive from their estates. 
Bfany of the existing landholders are, or have been, the dewans of European 
gentlemen. Indigo is the most valuable commodity raised, but experience 
proves it to be an article of very precarious profit ; the planters being obliged to 
advance cash for the weed to the cultivators, bdbre a grain of the seed is put into 
^ gioiutd, and the latter being frequently influenced by the zemindars to pervmt 
^ purposes, and abscond. It is a foct, however, that the 



the PROVINCE [DimiCTOf 

pea^try in the neighbourhood of an indigo fectory, ap^^ear alwaya ia better 
pli^htj 8Bd more iiidcp6nd6nt of the zemiiidsrs, thsn dsewhere* The bikdi 
paying land tax are usually found better cultivated than the rent free lands. 
The produce of the jununa or land tax, in 1814, amounted to 1,249,003 rupees, 
and the abkarry to 94,676 rupees. 

In the twenty-four pergunnahs and contiguous districts, the Hindoo inhabitants 
are reckoned in proportion of three to one Mahommedan, and the number of 
inhabitants of all descriptions, taken in the actual enumeration of the farms, majf 
be estimated at 1,625,000. If to these be added the inhabitants of Calcutta,! 
computed by the police magistrates at 600,000, the total population of the^ 
twenty-four pergunnahs, and the adjacent districts within twenty miles, will \ 
amount to 2,225,000 persons. — (J, Grants Police Rq>orts, F. FUzro^, fy:.) 

Budgebudge (Bhujabhuj ). — This small town stands on the east side of the 
Hooghly river, ten miles below Calcutta in a straight line ; but almost double the 
number following the windings of the river. Lat. 22* 29' N. long. 88® 20' E. 

During the government of Seraje ud Dowlah, the last independent nabob of 
Bengal, this place had a separate fortress, which was on the 29th of December, 
1756, besieged in form, and a breach effected, by the forces under Admiral 
Watson and Colonel Clive, who intended a general assftult before day-break. 
During the night, however, it was most informally stormed by a sailor ofW 
name of Strahan, who, happening to get drunk, wandered up to the breach and 
fired a pistol at some of the garrison, who, supposing he must be followed by the' 
whole army, fled out by the oppoute side, and left him in possession of the 
place . — (Ivest ^c.) 

THE DISTRICT OF NUDDEA (Navadwipa, the New Island). 

This district is situated immediately to the north of Calcutta, between the 
22d and 24th degrees of north latitude. On the north it is bounded by Rajshahy ; 
on the south by the 24 Pergunnahs and Jessore ; to the east it has Jessore ; and 
to the west is separated from Burdwan by the Hooghly river. 

In the ancient records of the province this district is nsuned Oukerah, but more 
recently received that of Kishenagur, from the zemindar who hdd it. In 
the beginning of the 18th century, it was bestowed on Ri^^ram, a Brahmin, the 
ancestor of the present lamily. The district is large, and wonderfully frrtite in 
the dearer productions of an Indian soil ; but this being ramaikably Ught, the 
land is only capable of undergoing tillage for ftnee successive years, after winch 
it must be left fallow for an equal period. The most valimbb airidlw d pioiaee 
are mulberry trees, hemp, flax, tobacco, sugar, oush (a plant from nidi 
dye is procured), and peeput In 1802, it was sii^po^ frmt frw milfriliefr. fl 



itvBBU.} OF BENGAL 14S 

t]ie diftrict subsequent to the first year of tibe Decennial settlement, afterwards 
rendered permanent, had increased one eighth, and that the proportion of the 
uncultivated land to the cultivated as it then stood was as follows : 

Jungle 105,000 begahs 

Ground lying fallow . . . 1,959,500 

For cultivation .... 1,959,500 

In this district there are seven descriptions of rent free land, the aggregate of 
which may be computed at 900,000 begahs, but the revenue lands are generally 
observed to be the best cultivated. The possessors of these rent free lands 
seldom give leases, on which account the tenants are liable to be much imposed 
on and dispossessed, should their farms improve and crops prove redundant. 
While, on the other hand, government renters, being protected in the possession 
of their land, take more pains with it, and prefer it, although encumbered with a 
land tax. Occasionally, when rent free land is managed by the proprietor, very 
good cultivation is been. In general proprietors of estates receive much more 
than ten per cent, on their land tax. With regard to water carriage this district 
is singularly happy, possessing an easy and quick transportation by the river 
Hooghly, the Jellinghy, and the Issamutty, yet the revenue yielded bears no 
comparison to that realized in the adjacent district of Burdwan, which does not 
enjoy so important an advantage. In 1814, the produce of the jumma, or land 
tax, amounted to 1,191,133 rupees, and of the abkarry to 11,951 rupees. There 
are here many embankments to prevent the devastation of the rivers ; but the 
soil b so sandy and light, that it is very ill adapted for the formation of embank- 
ments capable of resbting any great lateral pressure. There are at present no 
mud or brick forts. 

In 1802, the collector, in reply to the queries circulated by the Board of 
Revenue, stated, that in the district of Nuddea there were then 5,749 hamlets 
and villages, supposed to contain 127,405 houses, which at six persons to a house 
would give 764,430 inhabitants, of whom he supposed 286,661 were Mahom- 
medans; but from the returns of other districts, since made with increased 
accuracy, it is probable, that the above sum total is much under the real number. 
With respect to the police of the district, it appears to have greatly improved 
subsequent to the year 1807, when gang robbery in Bengal had attained its acme, 
fbr the superintendant of police in 1814 reported, that during the preceding 
six months not one gang robbery had occurred, although eight murdms, or 
rnsnslanghtAw i, lud been committed in consequence of cattle tresparaes, and 
dtsputea about boundaries. In 1764, by Major Rennell’s mensuratimi, tbb 
diiftriot contained 3,115 square miles, but it has probably since received some 
ac0eati<Mi of territory, as one of the rmisons stated, in 1814, for the difficulty of 

V9U 1* V 



146 THE PROVINCE [district of kuddea. 

establishing an. efficient police was, the great extent under the superintendence 
of the magistrate. The chief towns are Nuddea, Santipoor, Kishenagur, and 
Chogdah. — (J. Grant, Sir Alexander Seton, Sgc. ^c.) 

Nuddea. — ^This town stands at the confluence of the Jellinghy and Cossim- 
bazar branches of the Ganges, where their junction forms the Hooghly, 60 miles 
north from Calcutta, lat. 23® 25' N. long. 88° 24' E. 

This was the capital of a Hindoo principality, anterior to the Mahommedanj 
conquest, and was taken and entirely destroyed, A. D. 1204, by Mahommed^ 
Bukhtyar Khilijee, the first Mahommedan invader of Bengal. In more modem 
times it was the seat of a Brahminical seminary of learning, which apparently 
must have declined to a very obscure condition, as in 1801, the judge and magis- 
trate, while replying to the Marquis Wellesley s queries, declares, that he knows 
not of any seminaries in the district, in which either the Mahommedan or Hin- 
doo law is taught. We learn, however, from the government records, that prior 
to 1811, a certain sum was disbursed for the support of the Hindoo college at 
Nuddea, but wholly inefficient for the attainment of the end proposed, the pre- 
servation and revival of Hindoo literature. During that year, under Lord Min- 
to’s administration, more vigorous measures were carried into execution, to re- 
organize and augment the existing college ; on which occasion, two chief pundits 
were allowed with salaries of 100 rupees per month, and ten inferior ones at 60 
rupees per month each. Prizes also to the best native scholars were allowed, to 
the first class of 800 rupees ; second, 400 rupees ; third 200 rupees ; and fourth 
100 rupees ; besides an honorary dress to each of the most proficient, consisting 
of a cloth of little value : the whole expenditure, including the library, sta- 
tionery, prizes and dresses, not to exceed a total expenditure of 12,876 rupees. — 
( Lord Minto, Abul Fazel, J, Grant, S^c.) 

Kishevagur. — This town stands at the south-east of the Jellinghy branch of 
the Ganges, 62 miles N. by E. from Calcutta, in the district of Nuddea, to which 
it occasionally communicates its name, lat. 23° 26' N. long. 88° 35' E. 

Santipoor. — A town on the east side of the Hooghly river, where the Com- 
pany have a commercial factory j^d resident, 43 miles N. from Calcutta, lat. 
23° 13' N. long. 88° 33' E. 

Chogdah. — ^This place stands on the east bank of the Hooghly river, about 34 
miles north from Calcutta, and was formerly noted for voluntary drownings by 
the Hindoos ; which, however, has latterly become a mere ceremony of immOT- 
sion, without any fatal result, lat. 23* 3' N. long. 88° 38' E. 

Plassey (Falasij. — ^This town, celebrated for the battle, or rather route, 
^hich decided the fate of Bengal, and ultimately of Hindostan, is situated in the 
district of Nuddea, about 30 nules south from Moorshedabad, 28° 46' N. long. 



DISTRICT OF MIDNAPOOE.] OF BENGAL. l47 

68° 15' E. On this occasion the British forces under Colonel Clive consisted of 
900 Europeans, 100 topasses, and 2000 sepoys, with eight six pounders, and two 
howitzers. The Nabob’s army, if such a rabble deserve the name, was estimated 
at 60,000 foot, and 60 pieces of cannon, besides about 40 French soldiers, fugitives 
from Chandemagore. and the only component part which he could depend on. 

SiBKiBAS ( Sivanivasa ), — ^This town is situated in lat. 23°25'N. long. 88°49'E. 
about 64 miles N. N. E. from Calcutta. During the rainy season, there is a short 
passage for boats past this place bound to Calcutta, from the south eastern quar- 
ter of Bengal, which becomes quite dry when the waters drain off towards the 
winter season. 

Aghadeep. — ^At this place there is a celebrated image of Krishna, much re- 
verenced by the Hindoos, who assemble in prodigious numbers during a particu- 
lar festival, and perform worship to it. At present the image is supposed to 
bring the owner in about 25,000 rupees per annum. Some time ago the late 
Raja Nobkishen seized it for a debt due to him; the lawful owner, however, 
regained it by a suit at law, but not before a counterfeit one had been made ex- 
actly resembling it . — ( Ward, Sgc.) 

THE DISTRICT OF MIDNAPOOR (Mednipur.) 

A district in the province of Orissa, but so long attached to Bengal, that it 
may be considered a component portion of the province. To the north it is 
bounded by the districts of Ramghur and Burdwan ; to the south by various 
tributary zemindaries ; to the east it has Burdwan, Hooghly, and the sea ; and 
to the west, tributary zemindaries and part of Ramghur. In 1784, in all its di- 
mensions it contained 6102 square miles ; but since the annexations from Burd- 
wan and Hooghly, the total area is probably equal to 7300 square miles. 

In 1801 , the collector was of opinion, that the cultivation of Midnapoor had not 
improved or extended since the first year of the Decennial settlement, afterwards 
rendered perpetual, which he attributed principally to a severe dearth in 1799, 
which carried off a considerable number of the inhabitants. At that period no 
considerable agricultural improvements had taken place in any part of the coun- 
try, while large tracts of land in the pergunnahs of Jellasore and Midnapoor, 
chiefly near the jungle, which many recollected to have been in high cultiva- 
tion, were unoccupied, and had relapsed to a state of nature. The officer above 
mentioned was also of opinion, that two thirds of the district consisted of jungle, 
the greater part inaccessible and unfit for cultivation, which appears inconsistent 
with the immense population, (one million and a half) assigned to the territory, 
both by himself and the magistrate. The clearing of these jungles can only be 
^^^^^bctedi by the inhabitants of them, as the people of riie open country are averse 

wa 



THE PROVINCE 


i4a 


[disteict or 


to settle there, and very few of the jungle zemindars huTe the means vt improv* 
ing their estates. 

Some parts of these jungles are occupied by a poor miserable proscribed nee 
of men called Sontals, despised on account of their low caste by the inhabitanta 
of the plain country, who would on no account allow any one of them to fix him- 
self in their villages. The peasantry in the vicinity, by way of distinction, cafi 
themselves good creditable people, while they scarcely admit the soutals within 
the pale of humanity ; yet the latter are a mild, sober, industrious people, ana 
remarkable for sincerity and good faith. The zemindars give them no leases], 
yet on the whole treat them well ; for such is their timidity that they fly on the 
least oppression, and are no more heard of. Notwithstanding they hold their 
lands on such easy terms, and scarcely ever have their verbal tenures violated, 
they are said to be naked, half-staived, and apparently in the lowest stage of 
human misery ; a result we should not have expected from the character above 
assigned them. Their villages are generally situated between the cultivated 
plains and the thick jungles, in order that they may protect the crops of their 
more fortunate neighbours from deer and wild swine. In some instances they 
have been known to till their lands with considerable success, and raise good 
crops of rice and collie ; but all that their vigilance can preserve from the ravagcis 
of wild beasts, is extorted from them by the rapacity of the money lenders. 
To these miscreants, the sontals, who have but a slender knowledge of the value of 
money, pay interest at the rate of 100 per cent for their food, and nearly 160 per 
centum for their seed ; so that when their crops are ready, little or nothing re- 
mains for themselves. 


The cultivation here is almost entirely increased by the increase of population, 
and is very little promoted by plans for the improvement of agriculture, or by 
revenue regulations. W aste and jungle land, if in a low situation and fit for rice, 
may be brought into cultivation in one season, and the poorest man can under- 
take It. The class of men labourers who work for hire is not very numerous, 
most of the land being tilled by the peasantry who pay the rent. The most va- 

nl^ sugar; but tile 

the ^ consist of more than a few hundred begaht : 

im JoilZtT. at one-fifth of that subject to the land-tax, which 

or I’and assessment t ** cultivated. In 1814, tiie nit jttmma, 

cise 10.405 rupees. ° ^ 1,491,240 rupees, and the abbiry or ex- 

what they wereT^l^^^^°7 dediaed in qumtity ficoa 

y ®’^®<^‘“i7ago.whentheEuropean.prin«pdly^ 



OF BENGAL. 


lfI])irAK>0&.] 


149 


■ore and Piptey. The inland commerce appears stationary, and there are no ex* 
tensive commercial enterprizes carrying on, except by Europeans, the Company 
having much reduced their investment. Some sanaes are made in the district, 
and more are imported from the contiguous countries to the south and east ; plain 
gauzes, adapted for the use of the country, are also woven. The European plan' 
ters have introduced the cultivation of indigo, but the quantity exported has 
never been great. There are hardly any instances of the zemindars or others, 
of the very few who possess wealth, lending it out to individuals on interest, or 
vesting it in the Company’s funds. They prefer hiding it as their ancestors did 
before them. Merchants, and persons having commercial transactions with Cal- 
cutta, frequently have government paper to a considerable extent. 

In this district there are several forts of mud and stone, but they are now in a 
state of decay. They were built many years ago, and intended for the defence 
of the inhabitants against the Maharattas, for which purpose they were effectual. 
One of them named Bataw, situated in the jungle pergunnah of Baugree, lately 
contained 20 pieces of unserviceable artillery, which were removed by the magis* 
trate. The western parts of Midnapoor were formerly much exposed to the de- 
predations of Maharatta robbers, which obliged the zemindars to mmntain lai^ 
bodies of armed men for their protection. Besides these, few natives keep arms 
of any description, which, perhaps, on account of the prevalence of gang rob- 
bery, they should be encouraged to do. With respect to religious buildings, 
there are none of any consequence. The natives are sometimes, from motives of 
piety, induced to dig a tank, but there are few new works of this kind. The re- 
mains of the old ones attest the superior opulence of former times, or perhaps 
rather show that property was then more unequally divided, than at present. 
The private houses of the zemindars, and other men of note, consist either of 
forts in ruins, or of wretched huts ; nor does it appear that they ever were bet- 
ter off in this respect. It may seem surprising that the opulent and respectable 
natives are so seldom tempted to imitate the commodious buildings erected by 
Europeans, and that they have acquired no taste for gardening ; but to the cli- 
mate, and the uniformity and simplicity of their manners, must be attributed 
their pmeverance in constructing for their own accommodation, nothing but the 
slightest and most miserable huts. 

Like the rest of the Bengalese, the people here do not work with the view of 
improv ing their circumstances, but merely of subsisting their families. They 
scarcely ever *bin lr of procuring themselves better food or better accommoda- 
^n; and are not stimulated to any efforts of industry, by the security they 
^joy, hut solely by the calls of hunger. They have no laxnries, unkss 
t^^kaow may he called one! they are always in deht^ and horrow at aammoita 



THE PROVINCE 


150 


[SISTBICT Of 


interest, and when by any accident they earn a rupee or two, they remain idle 
until it is spent. 

Within the Midnapoor jurisdiction celibacy is extremely uncommon; an 
unmarried Hindoo man of 26, or an unmarried girl of 16, being very rare oe» 
currences. The great bulk of the people live a sober, regular, domestic life, 
and seldom leave their houses, not being called on for the performance of 
military service, or public labour. Very few marriages are unproductive ; bujt 
the v/^omen, becoming at an early age debilitated and decrepid, do not probably 
bear so many children as in Europe; total barrenness is however extremely 
rare. Polygamy, prostitution, religious austerity, and the circumstance ot\ 
young widows seldom marrying a second time, are the chief obstacles, though 
of no great magnitude, to the increase of the inhabitants. Among the adjuvat- 
ing causes of increase may be reckoned the extreme facility of rearing children. 
In this territory no infants perish of cold, of diseases proceeding from dirt and 
bad accommodation, nor, except during famines, which are so rare as scarcely 
to deserve mention, of unhealthy food. The small-pox sometimes carries off 
multitudes of children ; innoculation, although it has been known for ages, being 
little practised. As soon as a child is weaned it lives on rice like its parents, 
requires no care whatever, goes naked for two or three years, and seldom ex- 
periences any sickness. A great majority of the inhabitants of this district have 
preserved their original simplicity, and the characteristic features of the 
Hindoos. They are less quarrelsome and give less trouble than the natives of 
the neighbouring districts. Being little in the habit of engaging in law suits, 
they thereby escape the contagion of the courts of justice. 

In Midnapoor there are not any schools where the Hindoo and Mahom- 
medan laws are taught, but in every village there are schools for teaching the 
Bengalese language and accounts to children in poor circumstances. The 
teachers, although persons well qualified for what they undertake, are persons 
no ways respectable, their rank of life being low, and their emolument scanty. 
The children sit in the open air or under a shed, and learn to read, write, and 
cast accounts, for one or two annas {2d. to Ad.) per month. A person charged 
with several thefts being sent for by the judge and asked his occupation, said it 
was teaching of children, and on inquiry it appeared he was eminei^t in bis 
line. On his conviction, it seemed to excite no surprise among the nativ«i» 
that a person of his profession should turn out a thief. In opulent Hindoo 
families teachers are retained as servants. Persian and Arabic are taught fiw 
the most part by the Moolavies, who in general have a few scholars in thdr 
houses, whom they support as well as instruct. Thus Persian and Arabk 
students, though of respectable fiunilies, are considered as living on chafityv wsi 



OF BENGAL. 


151 


mipkawor.] 

they are total strangers to expense or dissipation. There was formerly a 
Mahommedan college at the town of Midnapoor, and even yet the establishment 
exists, but no law is taught. There are scarcely any Moguls ; but one-seventh 
of the whole inhabitants are supposed to be Mahommedans. 

Throughout this district there exists now a universal impression, (and it ap- 
plies to much the greater proportion of thf* British territories,) that property is 
not liable to confiscation, or gross violation by supreme authority ; which no- 
thing but a very long experience of the admirably impartial distribution of 
justice in Bengal could ever influence a native to credit. It was forjnerly the 
custom to bury in the earth treasure and vahiable goods, and to conceal the 
acquisition of wealth. This is still done; but generally from the dread of 
gang robbers ; never from any apprehension that the officers of government-will 
lay violent hands on private property. 

The principal places in Midnapoor are the town of that name, Jellasore and 
Pipley ; but the district contains no town of magnitude. It was acquired in 
1761, by cession from Cossim Ali, the reigning Nabob of Bengal; and in 
1770 was afflicted by one of the greatest famines recorded in history, which 
swept away nearly half of the people. Since that period, except in 1799, when 
a partial famine occurred, the number of inhabitants has been gradually in- 
cret^ing, and in 1801 was estimated at 1,500,000. In 1814, measures were 
adopted by the magistrate for the apprehension and dispersion of bands of 
choars, residing in the north-western quarter of the district, and of checking 
their horrid barbarities, the details of which will be found under the article 
Baugree. In the last six months of 1815, nine dacoities, or gang robberies, 
occurred within the limits of Midnapoor, but unattended with wounding ; and 
the police was considered efficient, with the exception of the pergunnah above 
mentioned . — (Sir Henry Strachey, J. H. Ernst, J. Grant, S^c. 8sc.) 

Midnapoor. — ^The capital of the preceding district, situated in lat. 22* 25 N. 
long. 87* 25' E. 70 miles W. by S. from Calcutta. This place, being a frontier 
station, had formerly a fort, but it has recently been converted into a criminal 
prison. The civil jail and hospital are thatched buildings at a distance from 
the old fort. By the exertions of successive magistrates, the roads adjacent to 
this town have been brought into an excellent condition, being constructed of 
gravel and hard materials, and planted with avenues of trees. Considerable 
advances had also been made in forming a road from hence to Bissenpoor, 
which, when completed, will not only shorten the distance to travellers and 
merchants no less than thirty-three miles, but by penetrating the wild and 
jangly jwxgmmali of Baugree, expose to view the haunts of and oto 

'^^“‘ditti. aadgmtly fecilitate their apprehension. (Wintk, Sir R. Strach^» 



152 THE PROVINCE [dhieict or midnapoob. 

Jeliasore ( Jaktmra).—Vm town stands on the east side of the Subun- 
reeka (suvama areka, with golden sands) river, which before the acquisition of 
Cuttack formed the southern boundary of the Bengal Presidency, towards the 
Nagpoor Maharattas, in the Orissa Province. Lat. 21* 60 N. long. 87* 25 £• 
86 miles S. W. from Calcutta. 

PiPLEY (Pippali ). — town in the Midnapoor district, 28 miles E. N. E. firom 
Balasore. Lat. 21* 42' N. long. 87* 20' E. About the middle of the 17th 
century this was a great resort of European trade, from whence the Dutch 
shipped annually 2,000 tons of salt. The first permission obtained by the 
English from the Mogul emperors to trade with Bengal was restricted to this 
place, now almost unknown. Since that period the floods having washed away 
a great part of the town and formed a dangerous bar in the river, the merchants 
removed to Balasore. 

Baugree (Bagkari). — ^A wild and jungly pergunnah in the Midnapoor dis- 
trict, situated towards the north-east quarter. Although within 60 miles of 
Calcutta, up to A. D. 1816, owing to peculiar local obstacles, the authority of 
government had never been firmly established in this tract, nor had the peace- 
ably disposed inhabitants ever enjoyed that protection, which had been so 
efiectually extended to all other parts of the old provinces. In Baugree the 
leaders of the choars continued to act as if they had been independent of any 
government, and endeavoured to maintain their predominance by the most 
atrocious acts of rapine, and frequently the murder of individuals in reveng;e for 
having given evidence as^nst them. Besides perpetrating rapine and murder 
in the prosecution of their ordinary vocation, these choars were generally ex- 
tremely ready to become the instruments of private malice among the inhabi- 
tants, when the malignity of their hatred stimulated them to assassination, 
which they were too cowardly to perform with their own hands. Every at- 
tempt to establish an eflSicient police having failed, it became necessary to con- 
centrate the powers usually vested in different local authorities in one functionary, 
under the immediate direction of the governor-general, which was accordingly 
done, and Mr. Oakley deputed to execute the arduous commission. 

The first measure adopted by this gentleman was to ascertain the principal 
ringleaders of the banditti, in order that they might be specifically excluded 
from the general amnesty, to be offered to the great majority of the choars. 
The next was to deprive them of their accustomed supplies of food, to en- 
courage a spirit of active co-operation among the inhabitants, ami generally to 
diminish the terror which the cruelty of the choars had impressed on the 
neighbouring villagers and cultivators. The success of these measures was 
becoming daily more conspicuous, when it was unfortunatdiy arrested by the 



OF BENGAL. 


DISTRICT or DCEDVAM.] 


153 


insurrection of the Pykes in the adjacent pergunnah of Bhanjeboom. The effect 
of this commotion, however, was only temporary, for by the middle of 1816, the 
gangs of plunderers had been dispersed, and crimes of enormity nearly 8up> 
pressed, while the current revenue due to government was completely realized, 
in February, 1816, the choar banditti consisted of Id leaders and about 200 
accomi^ices. In the course of a few months all the chiefs, except two, were 
apprehended, or fell in resisting the attempts to apprehend them ; their frequent 
and pertinacious resistance being partly ascribable to their long habits of ferocity, 
and partly to their expectation of capital punishment if taken alive . — (Pttblk 
MS. Documents, Oakley, ^'c.) 


THE DISTRICT OF BURDWAN ( Vardhaman, productive). 

This district is situated between the 22d and 24th degrees of north latitude. 
On the north it is bounded by Birboom and Rajshahy ; on the south by Mid- 
napoor and Hooghly ; and on the west by Midnapoor and Ramghur. In 1784, 
this district contained 5,174 square miles', according to Major Rennell’s men- 
suration, but it has since undergone several modifications, which have greatly 
reduced its extent. Along with the other ceded lands it became subject to the 
British government in 1760, and has since thriven so prosperously, that in pro- 
portion to its dimensions, it may be reckoned the most productive territory in 
India. It is environed by the jungles of Midnapoor, of Pachete, and Birboom, 
and appears like a garden surrounded by a vnldemess. The most valuable arti- 
cles of produce are sugar, indigo, pawn, cotton, tobacco, and mulberry trees, all 
of which have progressively increased in quantity; and in 1801 it was calculated, 
that tile general cultivation had extended one eighth, subsequent to the com- 
mencemmit of the decennial settlement of the land revenue, afterwards rendered 
perpetual; the uncultivated being to the cultivated in the proportion of one to eight. 
The revenue lands are of a better quality, and under superior tillage compared 
with those called rent-free, or exempted from the land tax ; but the latter appear 
to be a very considerable proportion of the whole, being estimated at one-fourth. 
Many of the principal zemindars reside in Calcutta, and have their affairs 
managed by an agent. There are also a considerable number of merchants who 
deal in tobacco, salt, grain, and cloth, and commerce has been greatly facilitated 
hy the openii^ of three grand roads to Hooghly, Culna, and Cutwa; Burdwan, 
altiimugh 80 q;>ulent, not having the advantage of an inland navigation. Most of 
the principal bankers of Calcutta have fectors established for the conducting oi 
tiMir inoney transactiona ; but the indigo works are entirely managed by 
Bnr^^eaiis. 

^ origiital asemindary or estate, known by the name of the Btirdwan aeann* 

Jt' ^ 



THE PROVINCE 


154 


[district or 


dary, was roughly estimated at 73 miles long by 45 broad, comprehending about 
3,280 square miles, nearly the whole of which was in a high state of cultivation, 
and well stocked with inhabitants. At some date subsequent to 1722, it was 
bestowed on Keerut Chund of the khetri or military tribe, the first progmiitor of 
the present family, and in 1790, the existing Raja paid a yearly rent to govern- 
ment of £400,000. In 1784, the revenue of the whole district was 4,358,026 
rupees, and in 1814 amounted to 4,323,663 ; but we are not informed if the fiscal 
limits continued the same, although we know that the judicial, betwixt these 
dates, underwent great alteration. At present there are no brick or mud forts in 
this district ; but the remains of several are visible, originally constructed for 
protection against the predatory incursions of the Maharatta horse, during the 
native governments. There are few villages in Burdwan in which there is not a 
school where children are taught to read and write, but there are no regular 
schools for instruction in the Mahommedan or Hindoo law. The most learned 
professors of the latter are procured from the adjacent district of Nuddea, from 
whence and from Benares the other stations are chiefly supplied. The Mahom- 
medans bear a considerable proportion to the mass of the inhabitants, and 
receive their education in the common branches from the village schoolmasters. 

The chief persons of rank in this district are the Rajas of Burdwan and 
Bessunpoor. The former has no property of any magnitude, except his zemin- 
dary, now greatly curtailed, and scarcely yielding five per cent, profit on the 
land tax; the latter has nothing left but his title, the greater portion of his 
estate having been sold for arrears of revenue, and the rest continuing under 
attachment from the same cause. In 1802 it was supposed the zemindar’s 
profit, generally, did not amount to ten per cent, on the amount of land tax 
paid to the sovereign, but circumstances of this nature are always carefully con- 
cealed from the collectors of the revenue, unless the loss be decidedly great, and 
then only made known with the view to an abatement in the sum levied. At 
present, firom poverty, and other causes, the Rajas of Burdwan and Bissunpoor 
maintain few followers, and when they appear abroad for the purposes of state 
or ceremony, they hire a temporary retinue ; but before the introduction of the 
permanent system, the number of persons called zemindary pikes, employed for 
police and other purposes, was above 21,000. Besides the above two, there are 
no other considerable zemindars ; the peasantry are peculiarly opulent. 

In 1814, Mr. Bayley, then judge and magistrate of Burdwan, endeavomred to 
ascertain with an approach to accuracy, the exact number of inhabitant wifibin 
his jurisdiction. In prosecution of this undertaking, the proprietors of 
vflh^ were furnished through the police officers of each division with a ftitisn 
m the Bengalese language, in which to insert the total number of dw^^ffing: IkatWi 
in each village, and the proportion occupied lespectivdiy bf Blnd4^ tod 



OF BENGAL. 


155 


S0BDVAK.] 

lioiiiiiiedaiis. These papers were accordingly circulated, and after being so 
prepared were attested by the proprietor or his i^nt, and also by some of the 
most respectable inhabitants of the village, nor did there on this occasion appear 
the least rductance on the part of these individuals to communicate the informa- 
tion thus required. The result of these statements when collected and examined, 
tmded to establish the following facts ; that in 1814, the district of Burdwan 
contained 262,634 dwelling houses, of which 218,153 were occupied by 
Hindoos, and 43,781 by Mahommedans; and allowing 5i persons to each 
house, that the total population of Burdwan amounted to 1,444,487 souls. In 
1814, the area of Burdwan district as it then stood, comprehended 2,400 
English square miles, giving an average of 600 persons to the square mile. 

The total population of England gives an average of nearly 200 inhabitants 
to the square mile, but if some particular counties are selected the proportion 
will be found to approximate to that of Burdwan. The county of Lancaster, for 
instance, contains about 1800 square miles, and the population in 1811, 
amounted to 856,000 inhabitants, or 476 to the square mile. 

The following statement contains an abstract classification of the whole 
number of Hindoo inhabitants in 26 villages of Burdwan, arranged under the 
heads of their respective castes or professions. The villages from the investiga- 
tion of which this abstract was composed, were selected as containing more 
than the usual proportion of Hindoo inhabitants, and the table exhibits almost 
all the classes and professions, into which the Hindoo population is generally 
subdivided, in the western parts of Bengal. On inspection it will be observed 
that the proportion of females to males is generally larger in the higher classes, 
while in the lower the males are the most numerous. 


CASTES. 

Male*, 

above 

Females, 

above 

Males, 

below 

Females, 

below 

Total. 

Brahmins .... 

l6 yean. 

. 2,356 

IS yean. 

2,738 

16 yean. 
1,266 

12 yean. 

947 

7,307 

Khetries .... 

10 

10 

5 

2 

27 

Rajpoots .... 

. 121 

151 

53 

47 

372 

Vaidyas (physician caste) 

42 

42 

26 

14 

‘124 

Khayastas (scribes) pronounced kaysts 701 

839 

421 

288 

2,249 

Gand bamas (druggists) 

. 500 

581 

260 

191 

1,532 

Cansaries (braziers) 

58 

65 

31 

22 

176 

Saocaries (shell ornament makers) 

16 

16 

12 

6 

50 

Agmis (fitters) . 

. 981 

1,113 

538 

359 

2,991 

|lii«eaim (florists) 

36- 

40 

16 

18 

104 

(baribera) . 

. 821 

843 

131 

116 

710 

(pottan) . , 

. m 

m 

71 

68 

464 


8 



156 THE PROVINCE [district or bveoit an. 


CASTES. 

Males, 

above 

Females, 

above 

Males, 

below 

Females, 

below 

Total. 

16 yeait. 

IS years. 

l6 years. 

IS years. 


Maim (confectioners) . 

162 

199 

•78 

50 

489 

Tantis (weavers) .... 

271 

265 

142 

77 

766 

Carmacars (blacksmiths) 

253 

339 

145 

97 

839 

Barrooees (pawnsellers) 

4 

5 

5 

2 

16 

Tambulis (venders of betel leaf) 

161 

193 

83 

74 

511 

Sat-gopis (cultivators) . 

1,463 

1,630 

854 

547 

4,494 

Gwalas (herdsmen) 

632 

680 

333 

221 

1,875 

Bayestomes and mohants (religious 
mendicants or priests) 

3 

7 

1 

3 

14 

Bhauts (bards, or encomiasts) 

63 

80 

41 

28 

212 

Panchias (a class of beggars) . 

4 

6 

3 

1 

14 

Daibages (astrologers) . 

74 

86 

46 

18 

224 

Kaiburtas (cultivators) . 

9C 

100 

43 

31 

264 

Sonarbanias (bankers, or money- 
changers) 

120 

137 

62 

38 

367 

Suvarnacars (goldsmiths) 

132 

143 

62 

53 

390 

Telliyas (oilmen) . . . ' . 

427 

512 

224 

136 

1,299 

Calus (oilmen) .... 

276 

322 

145 

134 

877 

Jellias (fishermen) .... 

98 

99 

57 

34 

288 

Chutars (carpenters) 

135 

147 

64 

43 

389 

Dhobahs (washermen) . 

77 

86 

41 

24 

228 

Jugis (weavers) .... 

36 

36 

15 

12 

99 

i^Bayaties (mat-makers) . 

32 

31 

21 

15 

99 

Saratis (carters) 

22 

27 

12 

14 

75 

Chunarias (lime-bumers) 

17 

16 

7 

1 

41 

Lohars 1 Porters, labourers, cul- 

16 

20 

3 

4 

43 

Bawuris tivators, boatmen, 

262 

306 

248 

175 

991 

Cotals sweepers, watch- 

435 

476 

216 

142 

1,269 

Haris men, palanqueen 

203 

215 

118 

77 

613 

Bagdis bearers, fishermen. 

1,205 

1,384 

858 

641 

4,088 

Duleas &c. &c. &c. 

90 

113 

60 

36 

289 

Malls (snake catchers) . 

6 

6 

7 

3 

22 

Chandals (as Cotal) 

53 

53 

18 

22 

145 

Domes (basket-makers) . 

285 

321 

254 

174 

1,034 

Swis (distillers) . . . , 

286 

305 

m 

63 

765 

Mttchis (curriers) . . . . 

168 

166 

97 

104 

m 

Total . 

ia»922 

14.786 

7,m 





DISTaidT OF BIRBOOM.] OF BENGAL. 157 

That this district continues in a progressive state of improvement is evident 
from the number of new villages erected, and the increasing number of brick 
building, both for religious and domestic purposes, nor is there any other portion 
of territory in Hindostan that can compare with it for productive agricultural 
value in proportion to its size. In this respect Burdwan may claim the first 
rank ; the second may be assigned to the province of Tanjore in the southern 
Carnatic. — ( W. B. Bayley, J. Grant, J. Parker, Colebrooke, Lord CornwaUis, 8^c.) 

Burdwan. — This town stands about 60 miles N.N.W. from Calcutta, and 
originally communicated its name to the district; lat. 23“ 15' N. long. 87® 57' E. 
In 1814, when its circumstances were investigated by Mr. Bayley, 7,651 houses 
were found inhabited by Hindoos, and 2,154 by Mahommedans; total 9,805; 
which, at the rate of 5i persons to each dwelling, gives a population of 53,927 
inhabitants. (W. B,. Bayley, 8gc.) 

Bissunpoor (Vishnupura). — ^This ancient town is situated 77 miles N. W^. 
from Calcutta, in lat. 23“ 4' N. long. 87“ 25' E. Formerly there was a large 
zemindary attached to it, which in 1784, according to Major Rennell, con- 
tained 1,256 square miles, yielding a revenue of 386,707 current rupees to the 
government, besides the zemindar’s profit, but to the latter little now remains 
except the name, nearly all having been sold or attached for unliquidated arrears. 
Notwithstanding its present low estate, it claims great antiquity, for it appears 
by an era peculiar to itself, that it must have been in the possession of the pre- 
sent proprietor's family through a course of 1,099 years ; during which time they 
were nearly independent, paying only a small tribute to the sovereign until' 1715, 
during the administration of Jaffier Khan, when the territory was completely 
reduced to subjection. The zemindars are of a Rajpoot family, and possess a 
list of 56 Rajas who governed the country in regular succession. — ( J. GrSt, 
Davis, ^c.) 

CuTWA (Kangtoya)~T\i\& town stands 75 miles N.N.W. from Calcutta in 
lat. 23® 37' N. long. 88“ 10' E. and is noted for a smart action that was fought 
here, in 1763, with the troops of Cossim Ali. It is also famous throughout these 
provinces for the manufecture of brass vessels. The composition termed dosta 
seems to be a kind of pewter or alloy conUuning a great deal of zinc. 

CUX.NA (KkiUana).—^\as place is situated on the west side of the Hooghly 
river, about 47 miles N. by W. from Calcutta, 23® 13' long. 88“ 21 E. 

OxtRAH. — A. town in the Burdwan district, 105 miles N. W. from Calcutta, 
lat.28“38'J!f. long. 87®16'E. 

THE DISTRICT OF BIRBOOM (Tirahhumi, tke land of heroes). 

Hds district is situated in the north western extremity of the Bengal province, 
and 4mttt the 24th degree <d north Uititade. To the nodh it is bmuMtod-hy the 



158 , the province [oistsictov 

district of Boglipoor, to the south by Burdwan and Pachete; to the east it has 
Rajshahy, and to the west Boglipoor and Pachete. By Abul Fazel in 1582 , it 
is named Sircar Madarun. In 1784, the superficial extent comprehended 3,858 
square miles, a considerable portion of which is hilly, jungly, and but thinly in* 
habited. In 1801, the collector estimated the proportion of uncultivated land 
to the cultivated at one begah in eight, but this appears by far too small a pro» 
portion, if the hilly and jungly surface be considered, and the backward state 
of agriculture. Coal is found in this district, but not of a good quality. The iron 
ore, procured here by the natives, is very rich in the metal, and is not found in 
veins, but dug from the earth where it remains in strata mixed with clay. The 
zemindars carried on the smelting processes after a native method, and opposed 
all European interlopers, until 1814, when an iron foundery for the smelting of 
Birboom and Rajshahy iron was established by Mr. Andrew Duncan, at the con* 
fluence of the Moa and Hooghly rivers, under the patronage of the Bengal 
government. The result, however, of the calculations regarding the rates at 
which iron could be furnished from Europe and from the foundery, was not fa- 
vourable to the latter, although ably arranged, and frugally conducted, and the 
ore remarkably rich ; government in consequence, after incurring considerable 
expense, determined to abandon the project. 

The most valuable articles produced in Birboom are rice and sugar, and cultiva- 
tion has on the whole perceptibly increased since the decennial settlement of the 
land revenue, afterwards rendered permanent, and it is certain that the zemindar’k 
profit exceeds the minimum then computed, of 10 per cent, on the jumma, or 
a land tax paid to government ; but notwithstanding this, the ancient and once 
opulent zemindary of Birboom is gone to decay, and the representative of th e 
old family is reduced to poverty, which has extinguished a ready market for 
many articles of traffic formerly in demand. To this decline may also be attri- 
buted the ruinous state of buildings and of religious edifices. At present 4hm» 
are no brick or mud forts within the limits of the district, but the ruins of many 
are still visible throughout the country. The rent-free and revmiue lands were 
considered by the collector in 1801 as equally well cultivated. The puK^uuen 
of estates at public sales were then mosUy persons who had been. in the service 
of the Raja of Birboom and other zemindars ; but recently have been mocfi^ 
merchants and the monied men of Calcutta. The cultivaticm and populaticii of 
Birboom may on the whole be considered as gradually increasing, but the wnnit 
of an iffiand navigation proves a great impediment to the extension commerce ; 
tWs district having fewer navigable streams than any other portion of the 
vince. On tMs account the roads and bridges are more attended to ; the hitistw 
^coMtru^^ palmyra trees, andbothinthe vicinity of Soory, tile cwM 
kept m order ^ the government convicts. The number of kon fo^ ki 



OF BENGAL. 


BXEBOOM.] 


159 


boonit and the adjacent district of Boglipoor, together Mriththe supply of Moor- 
ahedahad and the adjacent towns, renders the demand for fuel more considera- 
ble than usual in Bengal ; but the extent of forest throughout the. province is 
immense, and in Birboom there are very large forests lying dose to the forges 
which occasion the greatest consumption. 

When first acquired by the British, Birboom was the largest Mahommedan zc- 
mindary in the province, and was originally conferred on Assud UUah, the father 
of Budder ul 2^maun of the Afghan or Patan tribe, who was allowed to settle 
here about the time of Shere Shah, for the political purpose of guarding the fron- 
tiers of the west against the incursions of the barbarous Hindoos of Jeharcund. 

A warlike Mahommedan militia were entertained as a standing army, with suit- 
able territorial allotments under a principal landholder of the same faith. In 
some respects it corresponded with the ancient military fiefs of Europe, certain 
lands being exempted from rent, and appropriated solely to the maintenance of 
troops. This privilege was resumed by Cossim Ali in 1763, and under existing 
circumstances, is become still more unnecessary. Some portions of this district 
bordering on the hills arc covered with jungle, which afforded an asylum to da- 
coits; but in 1814 a settlement was concluded with the ghautwalls (petty hill 
chiefs) which promised to secure the assistance of this class towards the sup- 
pression of robberies, and also for the discharge of other duties confided to them. 

In 1814, it was reported by the police superintendant, that gang robbery or 
dacoity had experienced a small decrease, nor were such as had been recently 
perpetrated attended with any aggravating circumstances. Highway robberies, 
however, had become more frequent, and had chiefly been committed in the vi- 
cinity of Deoghur or Baidyanath, on Hindoo pilgrims and travellers journeying 
through the jungles to that sanctuary, where there is a temple of Siva, of such 
repute, that it is calculated from the Bahar district alone 6000 persons repair to 
it annually. The wild and woody nature of this part of Birboom, and the con- 
stant passing and repassing of pilgrims to Baidyanath, hold forth superior temp- 
tation to robbers ; and it is probable that many robberies attended with murder 
are perpetrated on the persons of these devotees, the knowledge of which never 
leaches the officers of police. In 1814, various measures were carried into exe- 
cution with a view to the security of these pilgrims, not only through Birboom, 
but likewise through the districts of Ramghur and BogUpoor. The head quar- 
ters the judicial establishment are at Soory, which is the residence of 'the 
ma^trate, and where the jail has been constructed of such combustible mate- 
rials, as to endanger the lives of the prisoners. Such, however, is the intense 
heat ti tins dunate, that it does not appear advisable to confine the convicts in a 
jail ofbrick and mortar, the warmth of which would at certain seasons be utterly 



160 the province [district of 

insupportable. In 1801, the total population of the district was estimated at 
700,000, in the proportion of 30 Hindoos to one Mahommedan, In 1814, one 
of the cases of murder tried here was committed by a villager, who deliberately 
beat out the brains of an old fakeer, excusing himself on the ground that the men 
was a sorcerer who occasioned considerable uneasiness in tlie neighbourhood. — 
(J. Grant, Police Reports, Colebrooke, D. Campbell, Cowell, &c. kc. kc.) 

SooBv. — The present capital of the Birboom district, stands in lat. 23® 64* 
long. 87® 32' E. about 50 miles S.W. from Moorshedabad. 

SuKBooi.. — ^This place is situated about 53 miles S. W. by S. from Moorshe- 
dabad, and was formerly a place of some commercial importance. Lat. 23® 39* N. 
long. 87° 42' E. 

Nagoue. — ^T his place is mentioned so early as A. D« 1244, as a Mahommedan 
fortress, and the capital of Birboom. It stands about 63 miles W. S. W. from 
Moorshedabad, and ha? a hot well at Becassore, a short distance to the south. 
Lat. 23°56'N. long. 87°20'E. 

Baidvanath ( or Deoghur). — A celebrat ;d place of Hindoo pilgrimage, which 
is said to have been built by Raja Praun Mull, of Ghiddore ; lat. 24" 32' N. long. 
86° 40' E. 110 miles W. by N. from Moorshedabad. The temple here is famous 
for a lingam it contains, respecting which a strange story is told in the 
Puranas, which also make mention of a river ; but at present there is no stream 
whatever, although there are several sacred pools. Pilgrims resorting to this 
place, usual y bring with them water from th? other sacred fanes they have 
already visited, and pour it ov'er the lingam, round which they walk a certain 
number of times, wMle others lie down and continue fasting until they have a 
favourable dream. Prayers of various sorts are addressed to the deity of the 
place. Some pray to be kings in the next transmigration, or for such worldly 
enjoyments as they prefer : others pray for happiness in the heaven of the deity 
they address ; while some, tked and harassed by the miseries of successive 
births, pray to be released from existence altogether. — (Ward, ^c. %c,) 

Lacaracoonda ( Laker ikhanda). — A small town in the Birboom district, 116 
miles N. E. from Calcutta, lat. 23° 18' N. long. 87° 15' E. 

Saeiiaut (Sri hat, an affluent mart). — A small town in the Birboom districtf 
8^^Tniles W. i^m Moorshedabad. Lat. 24“ 14' N. long. 86“ 51' E, 

Serampooe ( Sriramapura.) — ^A town in the Birboom district, 107 miles W. 
from Moorshedabad. Lat. 24“ 6' N. long. 86“ 24' E. 

THE DISTRICT OF MOORSHEDABAD. 

The Moorshedabad district comprises R portion of territory in the imipedfrcte 
vicinity of that city, and is described by the superintendaat nS police »i 1814 » 



MOORSBEDABAD.] OF BENGAL. l6l 

as larger than that of Hoogly, and equal in extent to Burdwan, which Mr. Bay. 
ley states to contain 2400 square miles. The jurisdiction of the magistrate then 
comprehended 18 tannahs, or police stations, and 4 chokeys; and the court of 
the magistrate was held at Calcapoor, seven miles distant from the city. This 
district, like several other of the Bengal judicial subdivisions, has undergone 
such frequent modifications, that it is diffictdt to assign it any precise limits. The 
JelUnghy river, by which it is intersected, is one of the most westerly branches of 
the Ganges, from the main stream of which it separates at the town of Jellinghy, 
and after an uncommonly winding course joins the Bhagirathi, or Cossimbazar 
river, at Nuddea ; their united streams forming the Hooghly, or Calcutta river. 
Although a stream runs in the Jellinghy the whole year, it is some years unnavi- 
gable during two or three of the driest months. 

According to the Reports of the Government functionaries in 1801, the culti- 
vation of the lands had considerably increased, subsequent to the first year of 
the decennial settlement ; since which era a great extent of jungle had been 
brought under tillage ; the cultivated land being computed at four-fifths of the 
whole. The most valuable products are silk and indigo ; but the works erected 
by Europeans for the manufacture of the latter, are viewed by the zimindars 
with great jealousy, (although manifestly tending to increase the produce of their 
lands,) on account of the protection which the factories afibrd to the under tenants 
against the exactions of their landlords. At that date there was said to be only 
one school in the district for instruction in the Mahommedan law, the expense 
of which was defrayed by the heirs of Mahoihmed Zakir; while there were 
20 schools for instruction in the Hindoo laws and customs. The jumma, or land 
revenue, of this district in 1814 amounted to 1,874,588 rupees, and the abkarry 
to 97,000 rupees. 

In 1801, the population of this district, including the city, was estimated at 
1,020,572 persons, in the proportion of two Hindoos to one Mahommedan ; but it 
is to be apprehended, that owing to the mortality that has prevailed within the 
precincts of this city, the number of inhabitants has rather been on the decline. 
The neighbourhood of Moorshedabad is the chief seat of the manufacture of 
wove silk : taffeta, both plain and flowered, and many other sorts, for inland 
commerce and exportation, are made more abundantly than at any other place 
where silk is woven. The appearance of the surrounding district exhibits a pro- 
gressive improvement in cultivation, but no traces of increased commerce, nor 
improvement in buildings for religious or domestic purposes, individuals occasion- 
ally build a temple or dig a tank for public use ; but similar midowments of 
former days are going to decay, and among the natives iu> degree of opulence 
ever tempts, them to improvements in their domestic habits or comforts. 

' ' T 



THE PROVINCE [district oj 

Gang robbery, or dacoity, is the most prevalent crime in this part of Bengal, 
but offences of less serious magnitude are also extremely common, owing to a 
crowded population, and various local circumstances. In 1813, the city police 
was reckoned inferior to that of any other of the Bengal cities, and heinous 
crimes prevailed within its limits to a lamentable extent ; the great dimensions 
and importance of the district rendering it impossible for one magistrate to con- 
duct the business both of the city and district. Another obstacle to improve- 
ment arose from the aversion felt by the native police oflScers to interfere, where 
the alleged dependants of the nabob were implicated. The straggling and ruin- 
ous state of the city, interspersed with large patches of jungle, and separated by 
the Bhagirathi river, operated also as impediments to the efficient execution of 
the police regulations. On consideration of these circumstances, the Bengal go- 
vernment judged it expedient to appoint an assistant magistrate, to reside within 
the precincts of the city, for its peculiar superintendance. 

Very few of the lower orders in this district keep any other weapons in their 
houses than long thick Bamboo bludgeons ; but particular classes keep spears 
for the declared purpose of destroying wild hogs ; and some of the head villagers 
and village watchmen have swords. Sometimes the latter use a long tapering 
solid bamboo, pointed at one end and hardened in the fire ; but they seldom use 
swords, and almost never fire-arms. The middle and higher classes keep swords 
and daggers as appendages of dress. Until about the year 1793, the district was, 
by the natives, considered as rather salubrious ; but now a sad reverse has taken 
place, and whether owing to a redundant population, or some more inscrutable 
cause, almost every year this part of the province is visited by a severe epidemic. 
— ( J. Shakespear, Hayes, 5th Report, Colebrooke, F, Buchanan, S^c, 8$c,) 

CITY OF MOORSHEDABAD. 

This city stands on the most sacred branch of the Ganges, named the Bhagi- 
rathi or Cossimbazar river, about 120. miles above Calcutta, lat. 24* 1 1' N. long. 
88° 15' E. It was originally named Mucksoosabad ; but in 1704, when Moor- 
shed Cooly Khan transferred the seat of government to this place, he changed its 
name to Moorshedabad. The town extends eight miles along boUi sides of the 
river, and was never fortified except by an occasional rampart in 1742, during 
the Maharatta invasion. The buildings are in general bad, and the palace of 
the nabobs so insignificant as to be passed without observation. The streets 

are narrow and inconvenient, and almost impassable for European wheel caT” 
riages. 

The original plan of the chowk, or market place, appears to have been weU 
contrived, but the inhabitants having been permitted to encroach on the public 



OF BENGAL 


KOORSHBDABAC.] 


163 


road, the purposes for which it was originally intended have been defeated. 
From the market place, there runs a long narrow winding street, composed of 
mean houses and huts, which is again intersected by others still more narrow 
and miserable. The sewers of these streets, originally intended to carry off the 
surplus water, have long been completely destroyed, and it consequently hap- 
pens, that after a heavy fall of rain they are nearly impassable, and remain so 
during the greater part of the rainy season, emitting a putrid effluvia. Another 
cause of this city’s unhealthiness, is a total want of a free circulation of air, 
owing to the confused form of the town, also to the thick, impenetrable, and 
yearly increasing jungle, which is intermixed with the dwelling houses, and 
which threatens to absorb the whole. If it be not intended that this city, like 
many other eastern capitals, shall die a natural death, the jungle ought to be 
extirpated, the streets widened, and the ponds of stagnant mud be filled up ; 
but to effect these objects the prompt assistance of government must be ob- 
tained, as the mere labour of the convicts will prove inadequate to the task. 

Moorshedabad is a place of great inland traffic, and the river is seen con- 
stantly covered with boats, which are examined at the custom house established 
here. From October to May the Bhagirathi is almost dry, when much of the 
traffic is conducted at Bogwangola, a port on the Great Ganges, about nine 
miles from Moorshedabad. In 1813, a canal was dug between the Bhagirathi 
and Great Ganges rivers, which independent of the commercial benefits thence 
derived, tended to ameliorate the unhealthiness of the town and adjacent 
villages, by maintaining a permanent stream of wholesome water, and by at- 
tracting a current of fresh air towards the city to clear away the noxious exha- 
lations from its atmo.sphere. Notwithstanding these exertions, in 1814 disease 
was peculiarly virulent, and involved the European portion of the society, which 
suffered severely, and the general mortality was described by the magistrate as 
hardly credible, although he admitted that the operation of the new cut had to 
a certain degree improved the salubrity of the town. The origin of this evil had 
been ascribed to the stagnation of the waters of the Bhagirathi, during a great 
portion of the year ; but the circumstances which combine to render Moorshe- 
dabad unhealthy are various, and difficult to remedy, and the population 
ccmtinues for obvious reasons to decline. In consequence of this, the houses 
formerly occupied by numbers of the lower classes of inhabitants have been 
suffered to go to ruin, from which results an increase of stagnant water, vege- 
table putrefoction, and other symptoms, which in India always mark the decay 
®f populous towns. 

The Mooty Jeel, or pearl lake, in this neighbourhood, is one of the windings 

y 2 



104 the province [oxstrict ot 

of a forriier channel of the Cossimbazar river. During the reign of AUverdi 
Khan, a palace was erected in it, and ornamented with piUata of black marble 
brought from the ruins of Gour, the ancient capital of Bengal. A very heavy 
expense is annually incurred by government on account of the Boolabeg Pooshta, 
or projecting embankment into the river, on the stability of which a principal 
portion of the town depends for security against an overwhelming inundation. 
In 1814, the third judge of the court of circuit reported to government, that the 
immediate police jurisdiction contained 15 tannahs, comprehending 277 mo* 
hullahs or subordinate stations, and 887 watchmen; the whole requiring an 
expense of 3,000 rupees per month. This amount he computed could not be 
furnished by fewer thaii 30,000 houses, taxed monthly nearly two annas each, 
which, at the rate of five individuals per house, would give 150,000 inhabitants; 
but from a comparison with other parts of Bengal, 5J persons may with sriety 
be allowed, which would increase the number to 165,000 souls. In 1812, the 
estimated value of property stolen in Moorshedabad was 41,090 rupees, and 
during 1813 it amounted to 38,020 rupees, of which in the year last men- 
tioned only 428 rupees worth were recovered by the exertions of the police 
establishment. 

Moorshedabad became the capital of Bengal in 1704, when the seat of govern- 
ment was removed from Dacca by the nabob Jaffier Khan, (or Moorshed Cooly 
Khan) and it continued to be the metropolis until the conquest of Bengal by the 
British in 1757, when it was virtually, although not nominally, superseded by 
Calcutta, Until 1771, it continued the head station of the collector general and 
of the board of revenue, being more central than Calcutta, but in that year they 
were both transferred to the latter place. 

The nabob Jaffier Khan, who first made this city his capital, was bom of a 
Brahmin, bought while an infant, and educated in Persia in the Mahommedan 
faith. He was appointed soubahdar of Bengal by Aurengzebe, and on his 
death, with the assistance of Juggeth Seth, the banker, he purchased the con- 
tinuance of his office ; besides which he discomfited two other soubahdars sent 
by the court of Delhi to expel him, although he remitted the annual tribute with 
great regularity. He died A. D. 1725, and was succeeded by his son in law, 
Shujah ud Dowlah, who reigned until 1739, and on his decease his son, 

Serferauz Khan, ascended the throne; but was dethroned and killed, after a 

short reign of one year and two months, by 
Aliverdi Khan, who, after an active and eventful reign, died in 1756, and was 

succeeded by his grandson, 

Scraje ud Dowlah, Two months after his accession, this prince attacked smd 



M00E8HESABAD.] OF BENGAL. 165 

took Calcutta ; but in the succeeding year was defeated at Piassey by Colonel 
Clive, and soon after assassinated, in 1757, by Mecr Meeraun, ie son of his 
successor, 

Meet Jaffier Khan, who, on account of his incapacity, was dethroned by the 
British in 1760, and 

Meer Cossim Ali Khan raised to the throne. In 1763, this nabob was expelled 
by the British, and his predecessor, Meer Jaffier Khan reinstated. After 
reigning one year, in 1764, he was succeeded by his oldest existing son, 
Nudjamud Dowlah, who, in 1766, died of the small pox, and was succeeded by 
his brother. 

Seif ud Dowlah, who died in 1769, in which year a famine and epidemical dis- 
temper-raged with great violence. 

Mubaric ud Dowlah, whose allowances were at first 24 lacks of rupees per 
annum, but subsequently, in 1772, reduced to 16 lacks. This prince died in 
1796, and was succeeded by his son, 

Nazim ul Muluck, who died on the 28th of April, 1810, and was succeeded by 
his eldest son, 

Seid Zin ud Deen Ali Khan, then 17 years of age. 

Besides being the residence of the native prince, Moorshedabad is the head 
quarters of a court circuit, having the following subordinate districts, viz. 1 . Bog- 
lipoor; 2. Pumeah; 3. Dinagepoor; 4. Rungpoor; 6. Raujeshy; 6. Birboom; 
and 7. the city and district of Moorshedabad. — fScott, Lord Valmtia^ Lock, 
Public MS. Documents, J. Shakespear, Rennell, Stewart, Leicester, Sgc. 8^c.) 

Bernagiiur (Vimagara). — A small town in the Moorshedabad district, five 
miles north from the city. Lat. 24® 16' N. long. 88® 13' E. 

Boowangola (Bkagavan Gala ). — A large inland town in the province of 
Bengal, district of Moorshedabad, eight miles N. E. from the city of Moorshe- 
dabad. Lat. 24® 21' N. long. 88® 29' E. This is a very busy emporium for the 
inland navigation, having sufficient water at all seasons, and from hence the 
capital of the district is chiefly supplied with grain. The town, which is entirely 
built of bamboos, mats, and thatch, has been removed more than once, on 
account of the encroachments of the Ganges, and exhibits more the appearance 
of a temporary fair or encampment, than of a solid commercial mart carrying 
on a most extensive inland traffic. — (Colonel Colebrooke, 

JuNOEYPOOR (Jangalpura ). — A town in the Moorshedabad district, 17 miles 
north by west from the city. Lat. 24® 28' N. long. 88® 13' E. This is the 
greatest silk station in the possession of the East India Company ; the others 
^ing Cossimbazar, Malda, Bauleah, Comercolly, Radanagore, and Rungpoor. 
The first attempt made to establish a silk manufactory was at Budgebudge, below 



2S0 PROVINCE [disteictof 

Calcutta, apd did not succeed. The buildings here were erected in 1773, and in 
1803, about 3,000 persons were employed. They use the Italian method of 
spinning, which was introduced so early as 1762, by some natives of Italy sent 
over for that purpose by the Company. The worms are bred by women and 
children, and the cocoons purchased on government account. 

The mulberry tree is the oriental. It is dwarfish and the leaves but indifferent, 
to which is attributed a degeneracy in the breeds that have been introduced 
from foreign countries. The Chinese mulberry was tried, but it did not succeed 
from the dryness of the soil. The quantity produced is capable of being aug- 
mented to any amount. In 1802, the investment stood the Company in 6^ 
rupees per pound. There are many other places where the natives rear the silk 
worm, and have adopted the Italian method of spinning, but the Company do 
not purchase this silk. The employment is said to have no deleterious effect, 
and is certainly very advantageous, as very young children are capable of assist- 
ing . — (Lord Valent ia, 8^'C.) 

CossiMBAZAR. — Tliis town stands about a mile south from Moorshedabad, 
of which capital it may be reckoned the port. Lat. 24° 10' N. long. 88° 15' E. 

This is one of the largest inland trading towns in Bengal, and during the rainy 
season has a variety and extent of water carriage, probably not excelled in the 
world. The Cossimbazar island is perfectly flat, and one bed of sand, but the 
annual overflow of the river leaves a deposit of mud which gives richness to this 
otherwise barren territory. Besides the tiger and the boar, this insular space 
abounds with the inferior species of game. The hare, deer, partridges, quail, 
and a species of the ortolan, with a great diversity of birds, far superior in 
splendour of plumage to those of Europe, are found along this sacred branch of 
the Ganges, and the aquatic birds of colder climates, such as geese, ducks, 
divers, and snipes, are also abundant. The town of Cossimbazar has long been 
famous for its silk manufactures, and is noted for its stockings, which nre all wire 
knitted, and esteemed the best in Bengal. The price is from 20 to 36 rupees 
per score of pairs. The quantity of silk consumed here annually by the natives 
in carpets, satins, and other stuffs, is very great ; and a large quantity is besides 
exported to Europe and to almost every quarter of India. 

The Cossimbazar river is named the Bhagirathi, and is the holiest branch 
of the Ganges, the others, in Hindoo estimation, not possessing the same sanctity. 
In the ancient Hindoo systems, the west of the Bhagirathi was named the Utter- 
rari and Dackshin-rari ; and the east of the same river named Bhagne. — 
(Colebrooke, Lord Vakntia, Tenmnt, Sgc,) 

Berhampoor (Barhanpoor ). — ^This town stsmds on the east bank of the 
Bhaglratlu, or Cossimbazar river, about 6 miles south from Moonhedabad. 



CHITTAGONG.] OF BENGAL. 167 

Lat. 24^ 4' N. long. 89” 14' E. Here a brigade of European and native troops 
are stationed in conunodious cantonments, which consist of a fine range of 
buildings on one side of a large open town, around which are the houses of 
different European gentlemen . — ( Lord Valentia, ^c.) 

Sooty. — This town is situated in lat. 24" 26' N. long. 88* 2' E. about 30 miles 
N. N. W. from the city of Moorshedabad. In 1767, when Seraje ud Dowlah 
apprehended an attack from the English, believing that their ships of war 
could proceed up the eastern branch of the Ganges, to the northern point of the 
Cossimbazar island, and from thence down the Bhagirathi to Moorshedabad, 
he commanded inunense piles to be driven into the river at Sooty, by which it 
has been rendered unnavigable for any construction of vessel larger than boats, 
and even for these during a part only of the year. In 1763, an action was 
fought here between the British troops and those of Meer Cossim, in which 
the latter were defeated. — (Stewart, Seid Gholaum Hossein, ^c.) 

THE DISTRICT OF CHITTAGONG (CkaturgramaJ. 

This district is situated at the south eastern extremity of the Bengal province, 
between the 21st and 23d degrees of north latitude. To the north it is 
bounded by the Tiperah district ; on the south by Aracan ; to the east it has 
the Birman empire ; and on the west the sea. In length it may be estimated 
at 120 miles, by 25 the average breadth. In 1784, this district was estimated 
to contain about 2,987 square miles, of unproductive hilly, and plain arable 
lands in the proportion of two to one, and was originally subdivided into four 
moderately large, and 140 very small pergunnahs, partitioned among 1,400 
landholders. This distribution originated in consequence of the whole dis* 
trict having formerly been assigned for the militia, or garrison troops, con- 
stantly maintained here for protection against the incursions of the Mughs or 
Aracaners. These, in process of time, became distinct zemindaries, when the 
military establishment ceased to be necessary. The islands of Hattia, Sun- 
deep, and Bameeny, although separated from Chittagong by large arms of the 
•ea, frequently impassable during stormy weather, are subordinate to the 
jurisdiction of its magistrate. 

The Chittagong river has been surveyed, but has not been found sufficiently 
deep for ships of any considerable size : and although there are a great many 
openings on the coast between that and the great Aracan river ; yet after a 
tolerably strict survey, it has been found that their mouths are all choaked up 
vith sand banks, so as only to admit ships of very small burthen over the bar. 
One opening, about 40 miles to the south of Chittagoim^ leads into a comino- 
diqns bdliind the island of Kutubdea, which both Mr. Plaisted and Mr. 



163 the province [diitrict or 

Ritchie, marine surveyors to the Company, have described, and from whose 
reports it would appear, that there is water enough for a ship of any size. But 
the mouth of this opening is so surrounded with sand banks and shoals for a 
considerable way out to sea, and the whole of this upper part of the Bay of 
Bengal is so full of unascertained dangers, that it is probable this harbour 
would never become of any practicable utility for ships of large burthen. 

In 1814 it was ascertained, that the southern portion of Chittagong towards 
the Nauf, was not so mountainous or impervious a territory, as had been 
reported. Between the different ranges of hills there are many plains and 
rallies susceptible of great improvement, of which description are the plains of 
Chuckareah, Ramoo, and Gurganeah, the last being estimated at 10 miles each 
way, with the river Bhaug Cali winding through it. Until recently, the cul- 
tivators of this portion of Chittagong were all Bengalese Hindoos, but after the 
conquest of Aracan by the Birmans, an immense emigration of Mughs took 
place into the British territories, some few of whom adqpted agricultural pur- 
suits, but the majority became petty traders in wood, gurjun, oil, cotton cloths, 
cotton, bamboo mats and similar commodities, while others settled as me- 
chanics, canoe builders, cutters of wood for ship planks, and crooked timber. 
In this tract the soil is so fertile, that very little labour ensures redundant crops, 
and the cultivation might be greatly augmented if the state of the country were 
less agitated. In 1814, the Mugh population within 12 miles of Ramoo was 
estimated by an officer on the spot at 100,000, which however appears too 
great an accumulation, but it was ascertained by actual enumeration, that 
Coxe’s bazar contained 800 Mugh huts, all inhabited by that race, who were 
very submissive to their expatriated chiefs and priests residing among them. 

Remote from the sea coast, the interior of Chittagong has a hilly sur&ce, 
at present much covered with jungle, but which there is reason to suppose 
adapted for the cultivation of coffee, pepper, and the valuable spices of the 
east, and owing to its mountainous and maritime nature, the district, generally, 
is exposed to several disadvantages incidental to its situation. The proprietors 
whose estates lie along the shores of the sea are compelled to guard them 
from the invasions of that element, while those of the interior, being subject to 
inundation from the mountain torrents which rush down the biUs, are obliged to 
observe similar precautions, and in reality the industry and exertUms die 
inhabitants to preserve their lands is deservii^ of commendatimi. At the time 
of the decennial revenue settlement, the waste lands, or at least die chidT part of 
em, were excluded from that arrangement by circumstances peculiar to die 
distewt. The question whether they are entirely at the disposal of government, 
r ong as soon as cleared to the Qhosaul fiuudy. und« a fMretended gnat, ai 



CHiTTAooNo.] OF BENGAL. 169 

stiQ depending in the courts of justice ; but at all events, whatever be the result 
that investigation, the lands when cleared become liable for the public 
revenue^ Landed property in Chittagong is for the most part distributed into 
very small portions, among numerous proprietors which occasions everlasting 
disputes respecting boundaries. In 1801, the jumma of lands paying revenue 
to government was 539,467 rupees, and the average produce of the' rent-free 
lands was estimated at 445,420 rupees ; but the estates subject to the land-tax 
were considered in a better state of cultivation than those exempted from that 
burthen. The zemindar’s profit was computed at from 16 to 20 percent, on 
the amount of his jurama, or revenue assessment, and the district generally was 
in a progressive state of improvement, numerous settlers having arrived, both 
from the Dacca province, and the Birman territories. Exclusive of the Mugh 
settlers, the total number of inhabitants was then estimated at 1,200,000, in the 
proportion of 3 Mahommedans to 2 Hindoos ; neither sect had any schools or 
seminaries for instruction in their respective tenets : and it is remarkable that, 
although so long possessed by the adherents of Buddha, in modem times 
scarcely one native Buddhist of hereditary growth is to be found. 

This district possesses the advantage of having an accessible sea port, its capital, 
Islamabad, being extremely well situated for external commerce, as well as for 
the construction of ships of large dimensions, and of these a considerable number 
are built annually, both of imported timber, and of that indigenous to the 
country. The exports consist chiefly of timber, planks, canvass, coarse cloths, 
stockings, cotton, and umbrellas ; and on the sea coast the government have a 
large establishment for the manufacture of salt. A considerable profit accrues 
to government from the elephants caught in the forests here, which are of an 
excellent quality, and particularly suited for the camp and chace. The best 
are received from the contractor under certain conditions, and agp'eeably to a 
fixed standard of height and other qualities ; the remainder he sells on his own 
account, are dispersed all over Hindostan. This maritime tract is much 
resorted to by the European inhabitants of Bengal, on account of the beneficial 
effects experienced from the sea air, and the salt water bathing. About 20 
miles to the north of Islamabad there is a remarkable hot well, named Seeta- 
coond, the gaseous exhalations on the swthce of which may be inflamed by the 
application of fire ; and like all other unusual natural phenomena is held sacred 
by the Hindoos. The river Nauf, which forms the extreme southern boundary 
of the Bengal Presidency in this quarter, is above 70 miles to the south of 
Islamabad, die seat of the provincial government, and residence of the British 
It is not navigable, as it becomes very shallow a ^ mdea above 
TesJoskauf, a vUlage situated at its junction with the sea. Tim baidts of But 
■ i* ^ ' z ■ 



THE PROVINCE 


170 


[district or 


river continue for the most part covered with, jungle, interspersed with scanty 
spots of cultivation, and a few wretched villages, where dwell the^ poorer classes 
of herdsmen, and families of roving hunters who catch, tame, and occasionally 
eat wild elephants, the original inhabitants of these forests. The incessant alarm 
and destruction caused by its frontier situation, and the vicinity of the Mughs 
and Birmans, have retained these classes in a half savage state ; but they, as well 
as the hill people named Choomeas, would acquire settled and industrious habits, 
f they were protected from external violence, and allowed to possess undis- 
turbed any moderate portion of the soil. 

Chittagong, it is probable, originally belonged to the extensive, independent, 
and barbarous kingdom of Tiperah ; but being a frontier province where Uie two 
religions of Brahma and Buddha came in contact, it was sometimes governed by 
sectaries of the one doctrine, and sometimes by those of the other. There is rea- 
son to believe it was taken froip both, about the beginning of the 16th century, 
by the Afghan kings of Bengal, and afterwards, during the wars between the 
Moguls and Afghans, reverted to the Buddhists of Aracan : it was first visited 
by the Portugueze so early as 1618, who were influenced by the then Raja of 
Aracan to settle in great numbers, and from thence, in conjunction with the 
Mughs or Aracaners, infested and desolated the south eastern quarter of Ben- 
gal, which, distant as the period is, has not yet recovered its inhabitants or 
cultivation. 

In 1638, during the reign of the emperor Shah Jehan, Makat Ray, one of the 
Mugh chiefs, who held Chittagong subordinate to the Aracan Raja, having in- 
curred his displeasure, and apprehending an attack, sought the Mogul sovereign’s 
protection. This is the earliest account of the superiority of this territory hav- 
ing been acquired by the Mogul, nor was it taken possession of until 1666 ; yet 
long before this date, in 1582, it was regularly enumerated by Abul Fazel, as a 
component part of the Mogul dominions. In 1666, Shaista Khaii, the Soubahdar 
of Bengal, having equipped a powerful fleet at Dacca, dispatched it down the 
Megna river under the command of Omeid Khan, who, having previously con- 
quered the island of Sundeep, proceeded against this country, and laid siege to 
the capital. Although strongly fortified, and containing, according to the Mogul 
historians, 1223 cannon of ditferent calibres, it made but a feeble resistance ; and 
on its surrender, a new name (Islamabad) being imposed, it was with die district 
permanently annexed to the Mogul empire. 

At a very early period this province attracted the notice of the En^iah East 
India Company, who, in 1686, proposed to remove their fiactory from Hooghl|y to 
Chittagong, and there establish by force a respectable fortified residmiCe. 
the 17tli of December, 1689, during a rupture with the empm^ Aurei^|aebe» 



CHITTAGONG.] OF BENGAL. 171 

an English fleet appeared off Chittagong, with the intention of effecting its con- 
quest ; but owing to indecision, nothing was done, nor would the result have- 
answered the Company’s expectations, had the original purpose been accom- 
plisbed. In A. D. 1760, it was finally ceded to the East India Company, by the 
nabob Jaffier Ali Khan. 

In 1796, his Birman Majesty, learning that three of his rebellious subjects 
and their adherents, or robbers, as he called them, had taken refuge in Chittagong, 
without any previous communication, marched a body of 5000 troops into the 
province in pursuit of them ; but their progress was soon arrested by a detach- 
ment from the Bengal army, and after a protracted negociation, they were in- 
duced amicably to withdraw within their own boundaries. From this period 
commenced an incessant migration of Mughs from Aracan into this district, 
which was also selected as an asylum by all the adjacent insurgent chiefs from 
the Birman dominions, especially a leader named King-berring, whose adherents 
were estimated at' 3000 men. In April, 1814, a party of 600 Birman troops 
pursued this chief into Chittagong, arid among other exploits murdered two un- 
offending Mughs, engaged in the occupations of husbandry. They afterwards 
proceeded to Gurguneah, where, in less than twenty-four hours, they erected a 
double stockade, above 120 yards square, filled in the interior with crows feet 
and sharpened stakes. Within the second stockade they dug a trench, bordered 
by a parapet 1^ feet thick, and nearly high enough for protection against mus- 
quetry. One additional day’s work would have rendered the stockade a most 
formidable military position; but on the approach of 125 of the Company’s 
troops under Captain Fogo, they lost heart and retreated. 

The situation of these fugitive Mughs, thus persecuted, was in many respects 
very deplorable. They had fled from Aracan, to escape the unrelenting and un- 
distinguishing fury of the Birmans, into the hills and jungles of Chittagong^ 
where they erected temporary huts and endeavoured to prolong their miserable 
existence. Here tliey were assailed by the rebel King-berring (who died in 
1815) and compelled to join his party or fly. Those who fled were urged by the 
pangs of hunger to seize the victuals of the British cultivators, and were in con- 
sequence attacked by the troops posted there for the protection of the latter. 
With a view towards the amelioration of their condition, the British government 
endeavoured to settle them on the lands of a hill chief in the back parts of Chit- 
tagong, but great ditficulties attended the arrangement, and its success is un- 
known. These refugee Mughs, from a national hatred to the Birmans, still con- 
tinued clandestinely to join Ae insurgents, and tliereby justified the Avagovem- 
ihent in asseiting, that the British functionaries had organized a den of reb^s for 
tbe snblest^tioa of the Birman territories ; yet it was wholly beyond the power 
' ^ ^ xZ 



1^2 THE PROVINCE [district or 

of the former to eradicate the insurgents, so long as they remained secluded in 
the remote and insalubrious hills and jungles, seven days journey from the sea 
shore ; where, after repeated defeats they were always sure to find an asylum. 
Compared with these Mughs, the Bengalese natives of this district are small, 
weak-bodied men ; the Aracaners being strong, muscular, and inured to hard- 
ships and active pursuit?. The Bengalese also being unarmed and naturally 
averse to war, made no resistance to the Mugh marauders, who were, however, 
easily put to flight by a few regular sepoys under native officers. 

In 1813, 21 persons were murdered, and 32 wounded, and the computed value 
of the property plundered 5,229 rupees. The gangs concerned in the commission 
of these atrocities amounted in some instances to between 4 and 500 men, and 
most of the crimes occurred in the parts of the district adjacent to the hills and 
wilds where the intrusive Mughs had fixed tlieir haunts. These hills extend in a 
line from north to south, along nearly the whole length of the district, are co- 
vered with impervious jungles, and their passes unknown to the inliabitants of the 
plain, who cannot reside in them on account of their insalubrity. They suit, 
however, the constitutions of the Mughs, who from their infancy have been ac- 
customed to the same sort of vitiated atmosphere in Aracan. The Company’s 
troops, when the season permitted, have occasionally penetrated to one or two 
days journey within tfie hills, where they attacked and drove the insurgente 
from their stockades, which they destroyed, and compelled the garrisons to seek 
deeper recesses in the jungles. The aggressions of these Mughs are sometimes 
perpetrated by bodies of men, armed with spears and large daws (a crooked 
cutting instrument) three feet in length. After plundering a house, they fly to 
the jungles, where all traces of them are lost, and pursuit impracticable. In 
addition to this body of insurgent Mughs, who have posted themselves in the 
eastern hills another party, consisting of 4,000 hill people and Mugh.s, in De- 
cember 1813 took up their abode in a range of hills, called the Kanchuma hills, 
and being forced by starvation committed some outrages on the inhabitants ol‘ 
the plains, but these disturbances were easily suppressed by parties of sepoys 
dispatched by the magistrate. Adverting to the wild and unhealthy nature of 
the country in which these disorderly tribes have settled, it may be deserving 
of consideration, whether it would not be preferable to attempt an arrangement 
similar to that effected by Mr. Cleveland with the rebellious hill chiefs of 
lipoor, rather than continue a permanent hostility, without a prospect of Any 
durable advantage short of the utter extermination of these savages.— 

Stemrt, Public MS. Documents, Pechel, Fogo, Ker, Morgan, 

p Residence of the Faith).— Ihk place stands on the west sido 

0 e 1 tagong river, about eight miles above its junction with the sea, and* 



cHitTAooNGO OP BENGAL I 73 

traveling distance of dl7 miles east from Calcutta. Lat. 22** 22' N. long. 01° 42' £. 

In the neighbourhood a sort of canvass is made from cotton, and vessels of consi- 
derable burthen are built, both from imported timber and of that which is the 
growth of the district. By Abul Fazel in 1582, it is described as follows ; 

“ Chitti^ong is a large city, situated among trees on the banks of the sea. Ii 
is a great emporium, being the resort of Christians and other merchants . — ( Abul 
Fazel, Rennell, Colebrooke, 6^'c,) 

Seetacoond (Sitacuiid, the Pool of Seeta). — A remarkable hot well, with a 
village adjacent, situated about 17 miles north from Islamabad. Lat. 22* 37' N. 
long. 91® 36' E. 

Meercaserai. — A small town in the Chittagong district, 35 miles N. by W. 
from Islamabad. Lat. 22* 48' N. long. 91° 30' E. 

Kookies (Cuds or Lunctas ). — ^The Kookies are a wild race of people, who 
live among the mountains to the north east of the Chittagong district, at a greater 
distance from the inhabitants of the plain, than another tribfe named the Choo- 
meas ; they are consequently but little known to Europeans, and are seldom seen 
except when they visit the markets on the borders of the jungles, in the Run- 
ganeah and Aurungabad divisions, to purchase salt, dried fish and tobacco. ' 

The Kookies are a stout muscular people, but not tall, and have the peculiar 
features of all the natives of the eastern quarter of Asia, namely, the flat nose, 
small eye, and broad round face. They are all hunters and warriors, and sepa- 
rated into a number of distinct tribes, all independent of each other. They are 
armed with bows and arrows, clubs, spears, and daws. They choose for the 
sites of their villages the steepest and most inaccessible hills, and each vill^e 
generally contains from 500 to 2,000 inhabitants. Like other savages the Koo- 
kies are engaged in perpetual warfare, and prefer ambuscades and surprises to 
regular open flglrting. When upon a secret expedition, they fasten their ham- 
mocks among the branches of the loftiest trees, so as not to be perceived from 
below. Among these tribes salt i.s in high estimation, and a little is always sent 
with a message to certify its importance. Next to personal valour, the accom- 
plishmmit most valued in a warrior is a superior dexterity in stealing. 

T his miserable race are of a most vindictive disposition, and blood must 
always be shed for blood on the principle of retaliation. As they have no pre- 
judice of caste, no animal killed in the chase is rejected; an elephant is conse- 
quently considered an immense prize, from the quantity of food he affords. 
Every fivn years they migrate from one situation to another, but seldom to a 
grentf^ than 12 hours journey. Their domestic animals are gayals, 

goats, iM3g8,'dogs, fowls, but the first is the most valued ; yet they m^e no 
itte whatever of the milk, the gayals being entirely reared for their flesh aad 



1^4 THE PROVINCE [disteict Of 

skins. The Rookies have an idea of a future state, where they are rewarded or 
punished according to their merits in this world. They conceive that nothing 
is more pleasing to the deity, or more certainly insures their future happiness, 
than destroying a great number of their enemies. They are a great terror to 
the inhabitants of the Chittagong district, and are a particular annoyance to the 
wood-cutters. — ( Macrae, S^c.) 

Ramoo. — This town is situated on a plain, near the southern extremity of the 
Chittagong district, about 60 miles south from Islamabad the capital. 

Ramoo being a fertile and populous plain, and the medium of all intercourse 
carried on in the country contiguous to the Nauf river, if any ground could be 
found not flooded by the rains, it would be a most eligible position for a frontier 
itation towards Aracan ; but, unfortunately, from the hills to the sea, no spot of 
ground more than 50 yards square beyond the level of the inundation is to be 
found. The situation is also known from experience to be singularly unhealthy ; 
yet it suits the temperament of the Mughs, who have settled in great numbers 
in the vicinity. — ( Morgan, d^r. j 

Coxe’s Bazar. — ^This town is situated at the mouth of the Nauf river, about 
nine miles south of Ramoo, and near the southern extremity of the Chitta- 
gong district, This is a very high, clear, and open situation, being the ter- 
mination of what are called the white clifl's. It has a long and open beach to 
the sea on the south ; on the west, bounded by the sea ; and on the north by 
the Ramoo plain, and is on the direct road by the sea to Teaknauf. No jungle 
approaches the station within half a mile, and excellent water flows from springs 
in the cliffs. There is here a high and clear spot of ground sufliicient to canton 
five companies of sepoys ; and in 1816, a custom-house towards the Aracan 
frontier was established here. In 1814, the Mugh population alone occupied 800 
huts. — ( Morgan, S^r. 

Mascal Isle. — This island is situated between the 21st and 22d degrees of 
north latitu e, and is separated from the main land of the Chittagong district by 
a very narrow strait. In length it may be estimated at 15 miles, by 10 the 
average breadth. It is thinly peopled and indifferently cultivated, but it yields 
two of the most epicurean luxuries,, oysters of an excellent flavour, and sea 
turtle. 

Kltctdea Isle. This island is separated from the main land of Chittagbi^ 
by a narrow strait, no where exceeding two miles in breadth. In length it may 
be estimated at 13 miles, by 4 the average breadth ; and like its neighbour Mas- 
cal abounds with excellent oysters, which are transported to Dacca and Oalcdtbi 
for the gratification of European appetites ; the natives having an aytmmm to 
every species of testaceous fish. 



OF BENGAL. 


CHmAOOKO.] 


175 


S UNDEEP Isle (Smadwipa, the Isle of the Afoonj.-— This island lies at the 
moutii of the great Megna, formed by the united waters of the mighty Ganges 
and Brahmaputra rivers, and consists of alluvial deposits of long continuance. 

In length it may be estimated at 16 miles, by 8 the average breadth. It is at- 
tached to the Chittagong district, and subordinate to its ms^strate, but during 
the south west monsoon is frequently cut oflF for a considerable time from all 
comi^nication with the continent. There is here a government establishment 
for the manufecture of salt under the direction of the Bulwa and Chittagong 
agency. 

Towards the conclusion of . the 16th century, a number of Portugueze settled 
on the coasts of Chittagong and Aracan, many of whom had entered into the 
service of the native princes, and obtained commands and grants of land. These 
adventurers were extirpated or expelled from Aracan about A. D. 1607 ; the few 
who escaped taking refuge among the islands, where they continued the practice 
of ' piracy. Futteh Khan, the Mogul governor of Sundeep, having attempted to 
suppress them, was himself defeated and killed, and his whole fleet captured. 
On this event the pirates selected for their chief a common sailor, named Sebas- 
tian Gonzales, and, in 1609, gained possession of Sundeep, after murdering the 
garrison. 

Sebastian, after this success, established an independent principality; his 
force, amounting to 1000 Portugueze, 2000 native troops, 200 cavalry, and 80 
vessels of different sizes, well supplied with cannon ; and with this equipment 
he soon subdued the adjacent island of Shahabazpoor, which, with several 
smaller ones he added to his dominions. With a little common prudence and 
moderation his power might have attained a great height, and been permanent ; 
but he soon disgusted his own subjects by the brutal tyranny of his conduct, 
and rendered the Moguls and Aracaners hostile by the perfidy of his policy. 
After many vicissitudes he was abandoned by the greater part of his followers ; 
and in 1616 was defeated by the Raja of Aracan, who conquered Sundeep 
and the other islands, from whence, under the name of Mughs, the Aracaners 
infested and devastated the lower districts of Bengal, carrying off the inhabit- 
ants into riavery. 

Bnndeep continued in the possession of these barbarians until A. D. 1666, when 
Slute Khan, the Mogul governor of Bengal, having fitted out a strong fleet at 
Dait^ dispatched it down the Megna to attack Sundeep, where t!ie Mughs had 
erected blockaded fortifications, which they defended with great resolution fer a 
oo^di^le time, but were at length all taken or destroyed. Since that period 
it renurined attaefee^ to the Mogul of Bengal, and deveflved along with the pro* 
id EaM India Cmpmf.^Stewarit Cti^, j 



176 the province [divtiiict of 

Hattia Isle. — ^T his island, like the preceding, is fonned by the sediinMitfr<Hn 
the great Megna, and in length may be estimated at 14 miles, by 10 the average 
breadth. By alluvions on the western side, it is now nearly joined to the conti- 
guous island of Dukkin Shahabazpoor. The island of Hattia is subordinate to the 
jurisdiction of the Chittagong magistracy, from which district, however, it is cut 
oft’ by two considerable arms of the sea, so as to render the communication difficult 
even in moderate weather ; but during the south-west monsoon, a cessatiob of 
ail intercourse with the Chittagong side takes place, for two or three weeks at 
a time. The surface of this island lies extremely low, and at spring tides, during 
the height of the rains, it is nearly submerged. It is, notwithstanding, very pro- 
ductive in grain, and yields besides salt of an excellent quality, which is manu- 
factured here on government account, and brings a high price at the periodical 
sales in Calcutta. 

Bameevv (Vamam). — ^This island is also a deposit from the waters of the 
great Ganges and Brahmaputra, where they unite with the ocean in the bay of 
Bengal, under the name of Megna, and, like the adjacent islands, is very little 
elevated above the surface of the water. In length it may be estimated at 12 
miles, by 5 the average breadth. The tide runs in the channels near Bameeny 
with such frightful strength and rapidity, as to render the passage to and from 
the island extremely dangerous. There is here a government establishment for 
the manufacture of salt, subordinate to the Bulwa and Chittagong agency. 

Choomeas. — A savage people inhabiting the first range of hills to the north 
and east of the province of Chittagong, and tributary to the British government' 
Their villages are called chooms, but they seldom remain longer than two years 
on one spot : beyond them are the Kookies, with whom the Choomeas traffic ; 
but the Kookies never allow them to enter their villages, the interchange being 
carried on at particular stations. — ( Macrae, 

THE DISTRICT OF TIPERAH (Tripura), 

This large district is situated principally between the 22d and 24th degrees of 
north latitude. On the north it is bounded by Siihet and Dacca Jelalpoor *, on 
the south by Chittagong and the sea ; to the east it is separated by hiUk and 
deep forests from the Birman dominions ; and on the west it h as the great river 
Megna and the district of Dacca Jelalpoor. By Abul Fazel, in 1682, it is 
described as follows : — “ Bordering upon Bhatty, is a very extensive country, 
subject to the chief of Tiperah; him they style Yeyah Manick. Whoever it 
possessed of the rajaship bears the title of Manick, and all the noWity are 
ailed Narrain. Their military force consists of 1 000 elephants and 200,000 in- 
fantry ; but they have few or no cavalry.'* 



OF BENGAL. 


TIPEItAH.] 


177 


The Tiperah district, also named Rooshenabad, is the chief eastern boundary 
of Bengal, and is of very large dimensions. In 1784, it was estimated to contain 
6618 square miles, but various lands have since been added to it ; and its eastern 
limits are not yet accurately defined. Towards this quarter the country is ex- 
tremely wild and overgrown with jungle, abounding with elephants ; but that 
part of it adjacent to the Megna is rich, fertile, and commercial. The inhabitants 
of the mountainous and woody tract on the eastern frontier ai*e named Kookies, 
and live in a state of the most savage barbarity. The manick, or zemindar of 
Tiperah, is an independent sovereign, of an extensive territory beyond the hills, 
but usually resides in the town of Comillah, which is the head quarters of the 
judge and magistrate. Maharaja Rajedhur Manick, the existing chief in 1801, 
was much addicted to inebriety, and through imbecility and mismanagement so 
involved his circumstances, that the zemindary is much reduced. Taking the 
district generally, both the population and cultivation have greatly increased 
since the decennial settlement. In many cases the cultivators, from caprice or 
necessity, quit old estates liable for revenue, to till waste lands, which they re- 
ceive at a low assessment ; but to the utter ruin of the old landholders, who are 
frequently seen begging from their former dependants. In 1801, the unculti- 
vated land was estimated by the collector to bear the proportion of one-eighth 
to the cultivated, which is probably much too small ; and the zemindar’s profit 
was suppposed to exceed ten per cent, on the lahd-tax. The same officer calcu- 
lated, that the produce of rent-free lands bore a ratio of one-sixth to the jumma 
of lands paying revenue to government ; the last being comparatively in the 
best state of cultivation. There are no large towns in this district, but many of 
a moderate size; of which description are Comillah, the capital, Luckipoor, 
Daoudcaundy, and Chandpoor. 

That portion of the Tiperah district adjacent to the course of the Megna fi'om 
Daoudcaundy to Luckipoor, is famous for the production of excellent betel nut, 
which is held in high estimation by the Birmans and Aracanefs, who arrive an- 
nually in fleets of boats, and buy it all up, paying mostly in ready money. This 
traffic is so regularly established, that they contract for the produce of the betel 
nut plantations for the ensuing year. The coarse cotton goods of this country 
are known all over the world by the names of baftaes, and cossaes, and are an 
excdlent, durable, and substantial fabric. They form every year a considerable 
part erf the Company's investment. These goods are also largely exported by 
private merdiants. The most valuable arricles of agricultural produce are cotr 
ton, rice, and betel nut ; and the cultivation of the whole is increasing, espedaBy 

die first, which may greatly be ascribed to the exertions of the European mer- 

VOl^l, A A 



I *73 * THE PROVINCE [district or 

chants settled in the district. In 1814, the amount of the jumma, or land assess- 
ment to the revenue, was 1,134,888 rupees. Along the sea coast salt is manu- 
factured on government account. In Tiperah there are not any regular schools 
or seminaries, where the Hindoo and Mahommedan laws and religion are taught ; 
and the lower classes of women have the reputation of being much addicted to 
suicide. 

Among the forests of Tiperah the gayal is found in a wild state, and the 
number of elephants annually caught is very considerable; but they are 
reckoned inferior to those of Chittagong and Pegu. The height of this animal 
has in general been greatly exaggerated. In India the height of females is com- 
monly from seven to eight feet, and that of males from eight to ten feet, mea- 
sured at the shoulder as horses are. The largest ever known with certainty, 
belonged to Asoph ud Dowlah, the Nabob of Oude, and was taken in 1796; 
the perpendicular height at the shoulder was ten feet six inches. One belong- 
ing to the Nabob of Dacca, Nusrit Jung, in 1798, and of a great age, measured 
10 feet high. The height required by the British government in Bengal for the 
elephants purchased for their service is nine feet. 

This district appears to have been the seat of an independent Hindoo princi- 
pality, for many centuries after the Mahommedans had by conquest obtained 
possession of the rest of Bengal ; but its limits, probably, did not then, as now. 
approach the banks of the Brahmaputra and Megna. By Mahommedan his- 
torians it is termed the country of Jagenagur. In A. D. 1279, it was invaded 
by Toghril, the Patan governor of Bengal, who plundered the inhabitants, and 
brought away 100 elephants. In 1343, it was again invaded by Ilyas, the 
second independent Bengal sovereign, who also carried off many valuable 
elephants, but effected no permanent acquisition. 

For a series of .succeeding years this state continued to maintain its inde- 
pendence, which is surprising when its vicinity to Dacca, so long the capital of 
Bengal, is considered, nor was it brought under the sway of the Moguls, until 
the fabric of their domination was tottering to its base. In 1733, a nephew 
of the Tiperah Raja’s fled to Dacca, and requested assistance against his uncle, 
which was granted, under the command of Meer Hubbeeb Oolla. This officer 
crossed the Brahmaputra, and being conducted by the nephew, they reached 
the capital before the Raja had time to prepare for an effectual resistance ; he 
was in consequence obliged to fly for refuge to the forests and mountains. On 
this event the nephew was put in possession of the government, on coudiUon of 
paying a large annual tribute, and the whole extensive tract of country, so 
long unsubdued, feU an easy prey to a handful of undisciplined trodps. After 



OF BENGAL; 


TIPBRAB.] 


179 


the completion of the conquest, the ancient name, accor^ng to a Mahommedan 
custom, was changed to that of Roushenabad, and a body of soldiers was left 
to support the young Raja on his precarious throne. 

On the acquisition of the dewanny in 1765, it devolved to the British govern- 
ment along with the rest of the province, and in 1801 was estimated by the 
public functionaries then in charge, to contain about 760,000 inhabitants, in the 
proportion of four Hindoos to three Mahommedans ; but from subsequent inves- 
tigation, there is every reason to suppose that the aggregate above specified 
scarcely amounts to one half of the real number. For many years this continued 
one of the most disturbed territories in the province ; but latterly the police 
arrangements have been so much perfected, that in the last six months of the 
year 1813, not one instance of dacoity or gang robbery had occurred, and so 
rare were offences of a heinous nature, that on the 31st December, 1813, only 
four persons were in confinement for examination . — ( Stewart, J. Grant, Crisp, J. 
Elliott, Rylexf, ^c.) 

CoMiLLA. — ^This town is the modem capital of the Tiperah district, and is 
situated about 51 miles S. E. from Dacca. Lat. 23^ 28' N. long. 91® 2' E. The 
roads in this vicinity have been greatly improved, or rather created, by the 
judicious application of the labour performed by the government convicts. 

Noornagur ( Nurnagara, the City of Light). — A small town jn the Tiperah 
district, 50 miles E. by N. from Dacca. Lat. 23° 45' N. long. 91° 5' E. 

Luckipoor (Lukshmipur ). — This town stands a few miles inland from the 
banks of the great Megna, with which it communicates by a small river, about 
60 miles S. by E. from the city of Dacca. Lat. 22° 56' N. long. 90° 43' E. 
Baftaes, and other coarse cotton goods of an excellent and substantial fabric, are 
manufactured in this neighbourhood, which is also very fertile and productive, 
being on the whole one of the cheapest places in the Company’s dominions. 
Near Luckipoor, the river Megna expands to a breadth exceeding ten miles, and 
during the rainy season, when the shoaly islands are submerged, appears more 
like an inland sea of fresh water in motion than a river. In 1763, it rose six 
feet above its usual level, and occasioned an inundation that swept away the 
houses, cattle, and inhabitants of a whole subdivision, 

Chandpoor (Chandrapura ). — This town is situated on the east side of the 
Megna, 33 nules S. S. E. from Dacca, lat. 23*’ 17' N. long. 90* 41' E. It has long 
^*®cn celebrated for the excellence of its oranges, which are of a particular sort, 
the skin being very tluck, and adhering to the internal pulp only by a few fibres. 

Paoudcaundy. — T his town is situated near the junction of the Goomty 
^th the M^gna, 25 miles S. E. from the city of Dacca, lat. 23* 30' N. 
long. 90® gjy During the rainy season, there is a passage from Dacca to 

A a2 



J3() THE PROVINCE [disteict of 

Comillah past this place, by the river Goomty, which in the dry season becomes 
too shallow to admit boats of even the smallest burthen. 

Kv-siSiAL (Candala). — town, or rather village, in the Tiperah district, 74 
miles S. W. by S. from Dacca, lat. 23® 12' N. long. 91* 18' E. The adjacent 
country is almost one entire forest, abounding with all sorts of wild animals, 
particularly elephants of an excellent quality, although reckoned inferior to 
those of Chittagong and the countries further south. 

CoLiNDA.— This town is situated in a flat and swampy portion of the Tiperah 
district, 73 miles S. E. from Dacca, lat. 22® 58' N. long. 91® 6' E. In the sur- 
rounding country baftaes, cossaes, and other coarse cotton goods of an excellent 
quality are manufactured, remarkable for the weight of the raw material they 
contain. 

JooGDEA (Yugadeva ). — This town is situated in the southern extremity of the 
Tiperah district, 76 miles S. E. from the city of Dacca. Lat. 22” 50' N. 
long. 91® 12' E. In the circumjacent country coarse baftaes of an excellent 
fabric are manufactured ; and the Company have, in the vicinity, an establish- 
ment for the manufacture of salt, but the article procured is not held in the 
same estimation by the natives as that made near the mouths of the sacred 
Ganges. 

THE DISTRICT OF DACCA JELALPOOR. 

Since the separation of the Backergunge jurisdiction in A. D. 1800, this dis- 
trict may be described as being situated principally between the 23d and 24th 
degrees of north latitude. To the north it is bounded by Mymunsingh ; on the 
south by Tiperah and Backergunge ; to the east it has Tiperah ; and on the 
west Rajshahy and Jessore. Prior to the new arrangement in 1800, this 
district was the largest and one of the most valuable in Bengal, stretching as &r 
south as the sea, and reaching north to the Garrow mountains. It then com- 
prised 15,397 British square miles, subdivided into a number of zemindaries, 
and was reckoned the granary of rice for Bengal, a distinction it still retains. 
During the rainy season, the greatest part of this district exhibits the appear- 
ance of an immense lake, in which villages raised on artificial embankn^ts 
seem scattered like islands, and being intersected by two of the largest rivers in 
- the world (the Brahmaputra and Ganges), is subject annually to conridnable 
changes in the boundaries of estates ; large portions, owing to tlto impetaosity 
the torrents, being transferred from one side of the river to the other, occaauHung 
infinite trouble to the revenue officers, and loss to the govenune&t. tliese 
annual inmdations, however, have a beneficial ^fect in fisrtilmng the land in 
the vicimtyj notwithstanding whidi circumstance, there is scaie^m dtttrict 



TiP£RAH.] OF BENGAL. 181 

in Bengal, where more jungle and unoccupied land are to be found. The whole 
of the latter is claimed as the property of individuals ; who, although they de- 
rive from it no profit, and are themselves too indolent to render it productive, 
will not suffer others to bring it into a state of cultivation without exacting a 
disproportionate recompense for the permission. 

It must nevertheless be allowed that Dacca Jelalpoor has been in a pro- 
gressive state of improvement since the famine of 1787, when extensive tracts of 
excellent land, particularly Bowal, Cossimpoor, and Taliabad, were utterly 
depopulated, and still continue so, overgrown with jungle, and so infested with 
wild elephants, that the peasantry find it almost impracticable to prosecute 
cultivation, their labours are so rapidly destroyed. In other quarters, tracts of 
country, formerly covered with brushwood and rank vegetation, are now cleared 
of jungle, and exhibit villages and cultivated fields dispersed over the surface. 
The ancient mosques and Hindoo temples are mostly deserted and in ruins ; but 
those of modem date are kept in tolerable repair. Several modem temples and 
obelisks have also risen, and probably many improved domestic buildings, which, 
from the concealed and secluded situations always selected by the natives, do not 
so often attract the notice of the traveller. In the vicinity of the capital, and espe- 
cially to the south, are the remains of many fortresses and redoubts, built to oppose 
the depredations of the Mughs, and to prevent their ascending the river ; but 
they are all now in a ruinous condition, and their cannon honeycombed and 
unserviceable. Throughout this division there are many Hindoo schools, in 
which the rudiments of the Bengal language are taught, with the principles, or 
rather forms, of their religion and law. 

The landed estates in this district consist mostly of small talooks, so divided 
and subdivided into minute portions, as to become almost evanescent. The 
business of the judicial department is consequently multifarious and intricate, 
and the European officers are compelled to have recourse for explications to the 
natives attached to their respective courts. The latter find it their interest to 
render the intricacy more perplexed, and as they, here as elsewhere, are alone 
masters of the detail, they are thereby enabled to aggravate the confusion. In 
1802, the existing collector stated the following proportions of the cultivated to 
the uncultivated Ismds, but the latter appear in most cases to have been under- 
rated by the revenue officers of that period. The rent-free lands were considered 
to be in the best state of cultivation. 


Southward, ^th uncultivated to -fths cultivated. 

Northward, fths 

ditto 

iths 

ditto. 

Eastward, ith 

ditto 

iths 

ditto.. 

Westward, |tha 

ditto 

|ths 

ditto. 



. TH® province [distbict of 

The most valuable agricultural productions are rice, betel nut, cotton, hemp, 
and sugar. In 1814, the jumma, or land tax assessment, amounted to 1,289,145 
rupees, and the abkariy to 29,212 rupees. 

Plain muslins, distinguished by different names according to the fineness and 
closeness of the texture) as well as flowered, striped, or chequered muslins, are 
fabricated chiefly in this district, where a species of cotton named the banga 
grows, necessary, although not of a very superior quality, to form the stripes of 
the finest muslins, for which the city of Dacca has been so long celebrated. The 
northern parts of Benares furnish both plain and flowered muslins, which are not 
ill adapted for common uses, though incapable of sustaining any competition with 
the beautiful and inimitable fabrics of Dacca. Dimities of various kinds and 
patterns, and cloths resembling diaper and damask linen, are also made in this 
district. The export of the above staple articles has much decreased ; and the 
art of manufacturing some of the finest species of muslins is in danger of being 
lost, the orders for them being so few, that many of the families, who possess by 
hereditary instruction the art of fabricating them, have desisted, on account of 
the difficulty they afterwards experience in disposing of them. This decline 
may partly be accounted for, from the utter stagnation of demand in the upper 
provinces since the downfal of the imperial government, prior to which these 
delicate and beautiful fabrics were in such estimation, not only at the court of 
Delhi, but among all classes of the high nobility of India, as to render it difficult 
to supply the demand. Among more recent causes also, may be adduced the 
French revolution, the degree of perfection to which this particular manufacture 
has lately been brought in Great Britain, the great diminution of the Company's 
investment, and the advance in the price of cotton. The principal towns in this 
division are Dacca, Narraingunge, Soonergong, and Rajanagur. In 1801, the 
total population was computed to be 938,712 inhabitants, one half Hindoo and 
the other Mahommedan. A portion of this population are slaves, and the custom 
of disposing of persons already in a state of slavery is common throughout the 
district. On these occasions regular deeds of sale are executed, some of which 
are registered in the court of justice, and when an estate to which slaves are 
attached is sold privately, the slaves are commonly sold at the same tiihe, 
although a separate deed of sale is always executed. 

During the Mahommedan government, the Dacca province was ruled by 
a foujdar, or commandant, the last of whom, prior to the British conquest, was 
Shahamut Jung Nowazish Mahommed Khan, nephew and son in law to Aliv^rdi 
Khan. He was at once dewan of the whole soubah of Bengal, and nabob naasun 
of Dacca, with all the provinces to the eastward. It was in search of thrbreasuies 
by his deputy, Raj BuUub, and supposed to have been ccmcealed by bit 
i^bna Das, when he took refiige in Calcutta, that Senye nd 



TiPEEAH.] OF BENGAL. 183 

in an evil hour commenced the war, which for him ended so fatally. Dur ing the 
two years soubahdary of the nabob Jaffier Khan, after the expulsion of Cossim 
AU Khan, Mahommed Reza Khan acted as naib at Dacca. 

After the British conquest, this large division of Bengal was partitioned into 
different districts, under the jurisdiction of distinct judicial and fiscal officers, 
and having a peculiar court of circuit and appeal for the superintendance of the 
whole. At present the most prevalent crimes of enormity in this district are 
murder, robbery, theft, perjury, armed affrays, the encroaeWent of zemindars, 
and the collusion of informers by profession, who conceal the principals, and 
derive a maintenance from the contributions they levy on the gangs, with which 
they are privately connected. The inherent timidity of the native facilitates the 
plunder, while his want of moral principle leads him to view the deed rather as 
an adroit exploit, than an heinous crime against society. In recent times, how- 
ever, the Bengal government by steady and persevering exertions has greatly 
reduced the number, as well as the atrocity of the crimes committed, so that in 
1813, it was reported by the superintendant of police, that no dacoity or gang 
robbery whatever had occurred during the last quarter of that year. This 
improvement continued so progressive, that in 1815 the third judge of the court 
of circuit reported, that he considered the perpetration of dacoity or gang 
robbery to have been finally suppressed. On a general view of the Dacca 
division, crimes of great enormity had in a manner ceased to be perpetrated, and 
(with the exception of burglary) other crimes were less frequent, the conse- 
quence of a more vigilant conlroui exercised by the police departments, and a 
due enforcement of the penal regulations. In the criminal calendars generally 
more Mahommedans than Hindoos are to be found; but in civil suits the latte 
form the majority. — (J. Grant, Colebrookc, J. D. Paterson, Crisp, Massie, Rees, 
Shakespear, ^r. <§‘c. ) 

Dacca (Dhaca ), — This large town is situated beyond the principal stream of 
the Ganges, but a great branch named the Booree Gunga, or old Ganges, above a 
mile wide, runs past it. Indeed few situations are bet ter. calculated for inland 
commerce than this city, as its river communicates with all the other interior 
navigations by a direct course. Its site is about 100 miles above the mouth ol 
the Ganges, and 180 by road from Calcutta; but the journey by water, on 
account of the circuitous route and twistings of the. river, occupies from one to 
two weeks, and the space gone over probably exceeds 400 miles. Lat. 23* 42 N . 
long. Wf IT E. 

Dacca succeeded to Soonergong as the provincial capital of the eastern quarter 
of Bengal, and is the third city (if not the second) of the province, in point of 
extent and pt^ulation. The country around it lying low, and being always 



the province [disteict of 

covered with verdure during the dry months, it is not subject to such violent 
heats as Benares. Patna, and other places in Bahar. The unhealthy season is from 
20th of August to the 10th of October; during which period the riyers are sub- 
siding, and the inundation draining off the land; but upon the whole it is one of 
the healthiest and most pleasant stations in Bengal. It manufactures^, and 
exports many varieties of the finest muslins, in the delicacy and beauty of which 
fabric it surpasses the whole world. A considerable proportion of the cotton is 
raised in the adjacent country, but a great deal is also received by the course of 
the Ganges from Patna and Upper Hindustan. 

That Dacca is a city comparatively modem, is proved by its not being men- 
tioned by Abul Fazel, at least under that name, in the Ayeen Acberry. In 
A. D. 1608, the seat of government was removed from Rajemal to the city of 
Dacca, by the then governor general of Bengal, Islam Khan, who, in compliment 
to the reigning emperor, changed its name to Jehangire Nuggur. Here he built 
a palace and brick fort, some remains of which are still to be seen. This transfer 
of the seat of government was probably occasioned by the ravages then perpe- 
trating in the south eastern quarter by the Mughs of Aracan, and the Portugueze 
pirates under Sebastian Gonzales. In 1657, Meer Jumla, the great commander 
under Aurengzebe, pursued the unfortunate Sultan Shujah to this place, and 
again constituted it the metropolis, the seat of government having been for some 
years previous transferred to Rajemal. 

It is related that during the second viceroyship of Shaista Khan, rice was so 
cheap at Dacca, that 640 pounds weight might be had in the market for one 
rupee. To commemorate this event, as he was leaving Dacca, in 1689, he 
ordered the western gate to be built up, and an inscription placed thereon, 
forbidding any future governor to open it until he had reduced the price to as 
cheap a rate, and in consequence of this injunction it remained shut until the 
reign of Serferauz Khan in 1739. But this city has had more than one period 
of prosperity and decay. It appears to have attained its greatest splendour 
during the reign of Aurengzebe, and judging from the magnificence of its ruins, 
such as bridges, brick causeways, mosques, caravanserai, gates, palaces, and 
gardens, now overgrown with jungle, it must have vied in extent and riches with 
the greatest cities, Gour alone excepted. Its earliest permanmit dedine appeals 
fo have commenced with the troubles and distractions which followed the 
mvasion of the Mogul empire by Nadir Shah, and that it did not experimice Ae 
ate of Gour may be attributed partly to its salubrity, and partly to the pectdiar 
commercial advantages of its situation. 

m 1774, c«ii«il., ,i«o l«on% to cmtw <* to 



OF BENGAL. 


PACCA JSLALPOOE*.] 


1B5 


again exhibited a show of opulence, being resorted to by zemindars and prm- 
dpcd inhabitants of the division, many of whom lived in a style of considerable 
grandeur. From this elevation it fell off on the abolition of the council, and the 
appointment of judges and collectors to the diffe’^ent districts, which rendered a 
residence in this city no longer convenient or necessary, and induced them, very 
beneficially for the country at large, to live on their estates. Since that period 
the city has gained nothing of its former magnificence in respect to domestic 
buildings, or style of living among the upper classes of natives ; but the mercan- 
tile, middling, and industrious classes, have by no means decreased, and the 
limits of the inhabited portion of the city have considerably expanded, which 
must be ascribed to its healthiness, the superiority of its commercial position, 
and the excellence of its police, 

■ During the Mogul sway, the naval establishment maintained at Dacca con- 
sisted of 768 armed cruizers, stationed principally in this division of the province, 
to guard the southern coast against the ravages of the Aracaners, and occa- 
sionally to augment the splendour of religious and other ceremonies. In this 
watery quarter tiic veneration of the Hindoos for the tutelary deities of their 
rivers is extreme, and their ceremonies in honour of them exhibit a degree of 
cheerfulness and animation unknown elsewhere. The delight they seem to re- 
ceive from their aquatic rituals has influenced the more solemn Mussulmauns in 
many respects to imitate them ; the latter assigning the superintendance of the 
floods to Khaujeh Khizzer, supposed to be the prophet Elias. For the support 
of this fleet the land revenue of several districts was assigned, amounting to 
30,000 rupees per month, being the expense of the boats and their crews, of whom 
nearly 1,000 were country born Portiigueze. Towards the end oi the 17th cen- 
tury, Dacca was the residence of Azim Ushaun, Aurengzebes grandson, who 
commenced and nearly finished a magnificent and extensive palace now in ruins. 
About this era also, was probably fabricated one of those enormous and useless 
guns, not uncommon in the Deccan and other parts of India, and which was still 
to be seen so late as 1790. It was made of hammered iron, and consisted of an 
immense tube of 14 bars with rings driven over them, and beaten down to a 
smooth surface, so that its appearance was very good although its proportions 
were &ulty. From its size this gun must have weighed 64,814 pounds, or about 
the w^t of eleven 32 pounders. The weight of an iron shot for the gun must 
have exce^ed 400 pounds, but the experiment of discharging it was probably 

never tried' 

The present town of Dacca stands on a great deal of ground, and including 
the suburbs, extends six miles along the banks of the river but its breadth b 
not in proportion, like other native towns, it is a mixture of brick and thatch 

YOI»i I. » » 



186 . THE PROVINCE • [disteict of 

houses, with very narrow and crooked streets. The latter description of houses 
being of very combustible materials are generally burned down once, if not 
twice per annum, and are viewed while burning, by their owners, with an apathy 
truly Asiatic. Into large earthem pots, sunk in the floor, they throw the few 
valuables they possess, and mats, thatch and bamboos being plenty, the expen- 
diture of a few rupees restores their edifice to all its original splendour. These 
fires generally originate with the owners of the house building materials ; and 
when a fleet of boats loaded with them arrives, a conflagration may be expected 
to ensure a ready sale. Dacca continues a very populous city, although it suf- 
fered greatly, apparently remote as it is, by the French revolution, its beautiful 
fabrics having been held in great estimation at the old French court. In 1801, 
although its commerce from a variety of circumstances had greatly stagnated, 
the total population was estimated by the magistrate to exceed 200,000, in the 
proportion of 145 Mahommedans to 130 Hindoos. Besides the genuine natives 
there are many respectable Greek, Armenian, and Portugueze merchants settled 
here, who carry on a considerable traffic, and assist in diversifying the society. 
The Nabob of Dacca, Seid Ali Khan Nusrit Jung, has long been celebrated for 
the suavity of his manners and his steady attachment to the British government, 
which have been recognized in various public documents by the Marquis 
Cornwallis, Lord Teignmouth, the Marquis Wellesley, Sir George Barlow, Lord 
Minto, and the Marquis of Hastings. In 1807 an allowance of 3,000 rupees was 
granted to the nabob for the repair of a building devoted to religious purposes, 
not only on account of the uniform propriety of his conduct, and the respectabi- 
lity of his character, but also as a public indication of the disposition of the 
British government to support the freedom of religious worship among all 
classes of their subjects. 

The people of Calcutta who speak the Gour dialect of the Bengalese, although 
confounded by the natives of Western Hindustan with the Bengalese, take in 
their turn the trouble to ridicule the inhabitants of Dacca, who are the proper 
Bengalese ; and Calcutta being now the capital, the men of rank at Dacca are 
becoming ashamed of their provincial accent, and endeavour to imitate the 
Baboos (opulent Hindoo merchants) of the modem metropolis. The inhabitants 
of this city have always been noted as a quiet orderly race, remarkably attached 
both to the public functionaries placed over them, and to the British nation 
generally. The magistrate has consequently so few crimes of magnitude to 
report, that in the month of February, 1814, tiiere were no commitments for 
trial before the court of circuit for the Dacca division. The districts ' com- 
prising the eastern quarter of Bengal, and subordinate to the Dacca court of 
appeal and circuit, are, 1, Mymunsingh; 2, Silhet; 3, Tiperah; 4, Chittogong; 
5. Backerarunffc: 6. Dacca Jelalooor: and 7. the dty of Dacca. 



DACCA JE1.AI.P00E.3 OF BENGAL. 187 

Travelling distance fiom Delhi 1107 miles. — (R^ell, Stewart, J. Grant, Crisp, 
MeMUe, Public MS. documents, F. Buchanan, (§*c. Ssc.) 

Narraingunge (Narayana Ganj ). — ^This town stands on the west side of 
a branch of the Brahmaputra named the Situl Luckia, about 8 miles S. £. from 
Dacca* and is one of the most considerable inland trading towns in the province 
of Bengal. Lat. 23* 37' N. long. 90° 35' E. 

The inhabitants of Narraingunge exceed 16,000 in number, and carry on a 
great trade in salt, grain, tobacco, and lime ; and the town exhibits a scene of 
commercial bustle and activity seldom seen in a community entirely composed 
of Hindoos. A majority of the principal merchants are not natives of the 
town, nor of the surrounding country, but accidental settlers from distant dis- 
tricts, who do not bring their families along with them. During the height 
of the rains, the adjacent country is almost wholly covered with water ; but 
when within bounds, the Luckia is one of the most beautiful rivers in Ben- 
gal, and presents an extraordinary scene of animated industry. On the mar- 
gins of the rivers in the vicinity of Narraingunge, are the remains of many 
fortifications, erected to repel the invasions of the Mughs of Aracan, but 
which do not to a scientific eye appear well calculated for the purpose intended. 
On the opposite side, on the Situl, or silver, Luckia, is a place of Mahommedan 
pilgrimage, named Cuddumresool, where is shewn a footmark of the prophet, 
much reverenced by the pious of that faith, who resort to it in great numbers 
from Dacca and the adjacent villages. 

PucoLOE. — A town in the Dacca Jelalpoor district, 34 miles N. N. W. from 
Dacca, lat. 24° 8' N. long. 89° 55' E. 

Attvah. — A small town in the .Jelalpoor district, 44 miles N. W. by N. from 
Dacca, lat. 24® 10' N. long. 89® 48' E. 

Hajigunge. — A. small town in the district of Dacca Jelalpoor,29milesW.S.W 
from Dacca, lat. 23° 31' N. long. 89° 53' E. 

SooNERGONO (Suvama Grama, the Golden Village). — ^This is reputed to have 
been once a large city, the provincial capital of the eastern division of Bengal, 
before Dacca was in existence, but it is now dwindled down to a village, situated 
on one of the branches of the Brahmaputra, about 13 miles S. E. from Dacca, 
lat. 23® 39' N. long. 90® 43' E. By Abul Fazel in 1582, it is celebrated for the 
manuihcture of a beautiful cloth named cassas (cossaes), and the fabrics it still 
produces justify to the present generation its ancient renown. 

A. D, 1279, the Emperor Balin, when in pursuit of Toghril, the rebel gover- 
*>or erf Bengal, arrived at this place, where he was complimented by Dhing Raj, 
churf of the surrounding country. Fakher ud Deen, the first independent 

B B 2 



THE PROVINCE [Dwraic^ of 

Mussulmaun monarch of Bengal, fixed his residence at Soonergong A. D.. 1340. 
From this period we hear nothing of it until 1809, when this quarter of Bengal 
was visited by Dr. Francis Buchanan, with the view of inquiring into its present 
condition and ancient history. On arriving at the town named Soonergong in 
Major Rennell's map, he was informed that Suvarnagrama or Soonergong, the 
former capital of Bengal, had been swept entirely away by the Brahmaputra, 
w hich river had in this quarter greatly deviated from its course. — (RcnneU, F. 
Buchanan, Stewart, S^'c.) 

FRixGyn.\zAR. — ^This small town stands on the west side- of the Dullasery 
river, formed of a branch of the Ganges and one of the Brahmaputra, about 13 
miles S. W. of Dacca. Lat. 23“ 33' N. long. 90“ 23' E. 

When Shaista Khan, the Mogul viceroy in 1666, invaded Chittagong, then pos- 
sessed by the Mughs, he was joined by many of the native Portugueae, who fled 
to the Mogul army for protection. A considerable number of them he settled 
here, and from this circumstance the name of the place originated ; but none of 
their descendants now remain. During the height of the rains, the vast expanse 
of water Ivere appears like an inland sea, and the depth is very great. — ( Stewart, 

R.\jANAGun. — This small town stands on the east side of the Puddah, or 
great branch of the Ganges, 23 miles S. by W. from Dacca. Lat. 23® 22' N. long. 
93“ 14' E. 

Bowal. — ^The country surrounding this miserable village was utterly depo- 
pulated during the famine of 1787, and in consequence became so overgrown 
with jungle, that it ever since has swarmed with game, among which may be 
enumerated, elephants, tigers, leopards, bears, buffaloes, wild boars, deer of 
many varieties, foxes, hares, jackals, tiger cats ; and of the feathered tribes, flo- 
ricans, peacocks, the domestic fowl in a wild state, different sorts of partridges, 
snipes, quail, wild ducks, teal, and wild pigeons. Wild elephants are here so 
numerous, that the peasantry, however willing, have found it almost impossible 
to commence cultivation, so immediately are their labours destroyed by the in- 
cursions of these animals. If under proper tillage and manageinent. Bowel 
would be one of the most considerable zemindaries in the Dacca J^poor dis- 
trict. The florican or curmoor (the otis houbara of Linnteus) exceeds all tho 
Indian wild fowl in delicacy of flavour ; its varied plumage, lofty cairis^e, and 
toft of black feathers falling gracefully from its head, make it one of the tnost 
elegant. It is of the bustard species, but much smaller than the En glish otis. 

Ecdala.— The town and fortress of Ecdala are frequently mentioned ih ihet 
histories of Bengal, and are supposed by Major Rennell to have stood ill 
lat. 24“ 4' N. long. 90“ 46' E. about 19 miles N. N. B-from Dacca, but not a ves- 



ifTHUUMKCHi*] OF BENGAL. 

tige of either now lemains, and from the lowness of the surrounding country^ 
during the rains, they must have been completely insulated. 

In A. B. 1353, Ilyas Khan, the second independent monarch of Bengal, is said 
to have taken post here when his dominions were invaded by the Emperor Fe> 
rose, who advanced to this place and invested the fortress. The garrison, how- 
ever, made so protracted a resistance, that the rains commenced and inundated 
the country, which compelled the emperor to raise the siege and retreat to 
Delhi. Sultan Seid Hossein Shah, the ruler of Bengal from 1499 to 1520, made 
this town his chief place of residence. — (Stewart, ^c.) 

THE DISTRICT OF MYMUNSINGH (Myman Singh). 

This district is situated principally between the 24th and 25th degrees of 
north latitude. To the north it is bounded by the Garrow mountains and the 
district of Rungpoor ; on the south by Dacca Jelalpcor ; to the east it has Silhet 
and Tiperah ; and on the west Rajshahy and Dinagepoor. 

Mymunsingh is of more recent formation than the adjacent police divisions ; 
on which account it underwent no separate mensuration in 1784, but in 1801, it 
was supposed by Mr. Crisp to contain 6700 square miles. It is intersected 
throughout by the great river Brahmaputra, and the innumerable streams which 
flow into it ; and the surface of the country being low and flat, it is, during the 
height of the rains, nearly submerged by the rising of the waters. The soil is 
nevertheless very fertile, and produces large quantities of coarse rice and mus- 
tard seed, which are the staple commodities. The cultivation, inland commerce, 
and general condition of the district, have greatly improved since the decennial 
settlement of the land revenue, afterwards rendered perpetual; yet in 1801, it 
w» computed by the collector that one-fourth of the whole remained iu a state 
of na^re. In 1790, the country near Bygonbarry, the capital, which is now 
tluckly inhabited, was a complete waste, the haunt of wild beasts and river 
pirates, who infested the Brahmaputra for a circuit of 100 miles. In 1801, the 
collector reported that the proportion of the produce of the rent-free lands was 
on an equality with the amount received from the lands paying revenue, and the 
zemindar's profit was very variable; some realizing almost nothing after payment 
of their land-tax, while others cleared 100 per cent, on that amount. Raja Raj 
Singh of Susung in this district, besides his estates within the British do- 
minions, possesses a small independent territory beyond the hills. In I3l4, 
the amount of the jumma; or land assessment, was 757,550 nipees, and the 
•hlcaiRry 21,900 rupees. The principal towns are Bygonbarry and Serajc- 
gunge. ' , 

In: district them are no regular seminaries for teaching the Mahommedmi 



190 ' the PBOVINCE [PI8TR1CT o» 

law ; but there are two or three schools in each pergunnah for instnictioB in 
Hindoo learning, where the scholars are taught gratuitously, it being deemed 
disgraceful to receive money for instruction. In 1801, the total population was 
estimated by Mr. Crisp at 1,360,000, in the proportion of 6 Hindoos to 3 
Mahommedans. The district of Mymunsingh, although not so populous as the 
adjoining one of Raujeshy, is more extensive ; and, although it has been parti* 
tinned into distinct police stations, and much jungle extirpated, still great exer* 
tions are requisite on the part of the magistrate and subordinate officers to keep 
the district in a state of tranquillity, and protect the inhabitants from the depre» 
dations and cruelties of gang robbers. In 1813, the number of gang robberies 
reported to have been committed, amounted to 63 ; and the gangs concerned in 
the perpetration of these atrocities were described as being of the most fonni- 
dable character, consisting generally of from 40 to 70 men, armed with match- 
locks, spears, and other weapons of offence. A great , improvement, however, 
took place shortly afterwards, and in no part of the country were heinous offences 
more rapidly suppressed, or a more systematic and vigorous system of police 
introduced, than in the district of Mymunsingh, after Mr. Ewer assumed charge 
of the magistracy. — ( B. Crisp, Le Gros, J. Shakespear, Public MS. docwrihstt, 
Sfc. 8 sc. 8 sc.) 

Byoon BARRY (Vaicantha bari ). — ^This town is of modem creation, having 
been selected for the residence of the judge and magistrate of Mymunsingh, 
When that district was formed into a separate jurisdiction, about 1788. U 
stands on the west side of the Brahmaputra, about 75 miles N. by E. from the 
city of Dacca, lat. 24® 46 N. long. 90® E. 

Srrajegunoe. — T his great commercial mart stands on the Jhinayi river, near 
its junction with the Konayi, in pergunnah Borobazee and district of Mymun- 
singh. It appears to have arisen since Major Rennell's survey in 1784, and is 
found in no map, yet it is probably, Calcutta excepted, the chief place of trade 
in Bengal. — ( F. Buchanan, 8 ^ 0 .) 

Bokinagur. — A small town in the Mymunsingh district, 71 miles N. by £. 
from Dacca, lat. 24“ 43' N. long. 90® 40* E. 

Jungle BARRY (Tangalbari ). — A small town in the Mymunsingh dUtrict» 
60 miles N. E. from Dacca, lat. 24® 27' N. long. 90® 42' E. 

Bajetpoor. — ^A town in the Mymunsingh district, 48 miles N. B. from Dacca, 
lat. 24® 14' N. long. 91® E. 

SusuNO. — ^The Susung and Sherpoor duties on the cotton brought for 
the Garrows, are farmed out annually by Government to the highest bidder. Ia 
1816, they were taken at 4625 rupees, having increased since the diatnrbaaoea 

among the Garrows on the Rungpoor frontier.— ('5 'miwi, 



8ILBET.] OF BENGAL. 191 

Cauomariit.— A smadl town in the Mymunsingh district, 38 miles N. N. W. 
from Dacca, lat. 24* 16' N. long. 89" 48' E. 

MooDAPOoa. — A town in the Mymunsingh district, 68 miles N. by W, from 
Dacca, lat. 24* 36' N. long. 90" 5' E. 

THE DISTRICT OF SILHET (Srihata, a rich Market). 

This district is situated at the eastern extremity of Bengal, and principally 
between the 24th and 25th degrees of north latitude. To the north and east it 
is bounded by a lofty ridge of mountains, inhabited by many wild tribes ; on the 
south by Tiperah and Mymunsingh ; and on the west it has Mymunsingh. In 
1784, it contained 2861 square miles, yet the revenue was only 239,924 rupees. 
By Abul Fazel, in 1582, this district is described as follows: — “ Sircar Silbet, 
containing eight mahals, revenue 6,681,621 dams. This sircar furnishes 1100 
cavalry, 190 elephants, and 42,000 infantry. Sircar Silhet is very mountainous. 

It furnishes many eunuch slaves for the seraglio.’" 

This is the most easterly of the British possessions in Hindostan, being within 
360 miles of the province of Yunan in China. Although so near to this rich 
empire, no intercourse whatever subsists between them, nor has the intervening 
country ever been explored, or even penetrated; beyond a few miles from the 
frontier. The boundary mountains are a continuation of those which extend 
front Aracan and Chittagong to an unknown latitude north, and rise with singular 
abruptness from the plains below. Of the country beyond these we are almost 
entirely ignorant, having only native sources of information to rely on, at all times 
very defective,- and in this case particularly so, as the informants belong to dif- 
ferent savage tribes, but little removed above the brute creation. According to 
the best of these, there is reason to conjecture that the intermediate country be- 
tween Silhet and China is a mountainous uncouth region, covered with jungle, 
destitute of navigable rivers, without towns or villages, and wholly trackless ex- 
cept to the savagfe aborigines. These difficulties, however, are by no means 
iiiBiirmounUd)le, and it is to be hoped that the Bengal government will not much 
longer incur the reproach of leaving so contiguous a country unexplored. Pro- 
bably a small military expedition would be best adapted to effect this purpose- 
Under the Mogul government, Silhet was formed into a foujdarry, or mi- 
Ufrury station, more on account of its remote and secluded situation beyond 
rile Brahmaputra and Soormah, than from any reasonable apprehensions of foreign 
invasion, protected as it is by inaccessible hills, or impenetrable jungles.. Its 
•Otual difrieaBions since the dismemberment of several pergunnahs are computed 
•1^861 miles, divided into 146 small pergunnahs, held by the same number of 
smfbdafli. Nearto the town of Silhet, the country presents a novel appearance 



192 THE PROVINCE [oisTWCTor 

to an eye long habituated to the flat surface of the lower districts of Bengal. 
It is composed of a number of conical .shaped hills, with broad bases, rising 
irregularly at short distances from each other, and covered with trees and ver- 
dure to the very summit; while to the north and east lofty mountains rise 
abruptly like a wall, to the height of several thousand feet, and appear as if 
they had at some remote period withstood the surge of the ocean. 

During the rains the greater proportion of the land is laid under water by the 

overflowing of the Soormah and other rivers by which it is intersected, and 

the passage from Dacca is performed for nearly the whole way over rice and 

pasture fields, which in the cold season are perfectly dry. Over this tract 

when the floods are at their height, there is from 8 to 10 feet of water; the 

elevated sites of the villages appear like islands; the masts of the ve.ssels 

are entangled among the branches of trees, while their progress is impeded by 

the matted thickness and adhesion of the paddy stalks. When the inundation 

drains off, the land is left in an excellent condition for rice cultivation ; this 

0 

species of food is in consequence so plenty, that in 1801, rice, in the husk, sold 
for 15 rupees per 100 maunds (801bs. each), and coarser grains were still 
cheaper. In addition to this supply every stream and puddle swarms with fish, 
which are caught with scarcely any trouble, with a hand-net, or even a piece 
of mat. Wages are consequently, as may be inferred, extremely low, being 
from half a rupee to li rupees per month; but the labourers being naturally 
averse to exertion, and never working but when stimulated by the pangs or 
apprehension of hunger, the soil is on the whole very indifierently cultivated. 

As has been stated above, the produce of this district, owing to the lowness 
of the grounds, and the swampy surface of a great .proportion of the country, is 
principally rice ; the more costly articles are cotton and sugar ; the first raised 
on the hills, and the last on the more elevated spots of the different pergunnahs. 
Prior to 1801, the cotton cultivation had been much impeded by the pre- 
datory Kookies, a savage race of mountaineers who inhabit the recesses of the 
Tiperah and Cachar hills ; and the Silhet hills being a continuation of the same 
range, they can suddenly issue forth, cut off those they meet with in small 
parties, and then retreat to their fastnesses among the hills. In 1800, no less 
than 18 persons were murdered by thea^ marauders, which so intimidated the 
natives that the cotton cultivation was for the time abandoned, except on the 
more central hills within the district, but since that period the measures pur- 
sued by government to prevent a repetition of similar atrocities have removed 
all apprehension on this score, and the cultivation has been resumes!, 
culture of the sugar-cane does little more than supply the necessities of ,t|io 
district, which is on the whole not w^ adapted for ^e r^urinf of thot plfdlt* 



iUKSV.J OF BENGAL. igS 

Anumg the chief productions and staj^e commodities for exportation must be 
lechoned oranges and lime. The first are procured firom extensive mrange 
plantations* or rather forests* and the quantity annually exported is very great ; 
Calcutta* and many other remote parts of the province, being supplied from 
hence. The quality is inferior to the delicious orange of Chandpoor in the 
Dacca district ; but may vie with any other, and the price on the spot is fre- 
quently not more than one rupee per thousand. Something peculiar in soil or 
dimate would appear to be required to fit a place for producing good oranges. 
In the whole extent of the British territories in Hindostan there are only three 
places where good oranges are produced ; viz. the district of Silhet, Chandpoor, 
and Bautghur, at the foot of the eastern Ghauts or passes leading up to Ban- 
galore firom Madras. Chunam, or lime, is found in inexhaustible quantities 
among the boundary hills, and accessible during the rains, from whence it is 
transported by the inland navigation to the most distant parts of Bengal ; but it 
is greatly inferior to the beautiful shell-chunam of Madras. A commerce in 
chunam, wax, ivory, and other articles, is carried on with the Cosseahs and 
other mountaineers oh the eastern frontiers of Bengal. This was formerly a 
monopoly; but in 1799, a general freedom of trade in all those commodities 
was proclaimed, subject to particular police regulations to prevent frauds and 
quarrels. The other productions of Silhet are, aguru, or fragrant aloe wood, 
wild silk, and a cloth manufactured from it named muggadooties. Great num 
bers of elephants are annually caught on government account, but they are 
reckoned inferior both in size and quality to those nearer the sea coast, and of 
a more southern latitude. In 1814, coal was discovered to be abundant at 
Laour, near the frontier of Silhet, but the coal procured having been picked 
up on* and near the surfoce, proved inferior to the English pit coal, ap- 
proaching in its nature to the canal coal, which may be considered as a 
spurious coal of a slaty kind. The strata was found in the broken bank of the 
river for a considerable extent, and at distances of several miles. Formerly 
large boats were, built here for the royal Mogul fleet stationed at Dacca, and 
square-rigged vessels have since been occasionally constructed of timber, the 
growth of the country. The chief towns are Silhet and Azmerigdnge; the 
prind]^ rivers the Soormah and Megna. 

In many pei^^nnahs bordering on the hills, where the torrents rise suddenly 
and adjacent country, embankments would be of great benefit* 

hfidf would the expense be great if the proprietors would conti*bute generally* 
but the bcBectors, after repeated trials found it impossible to unite them in a 
uddlfo piottiiaod to 1m of mutttd advant^ In fins distil, for tgri* 
parpoaes* tanka a« aupeifluoua* the land being amply ani^lied with 

m*; ' 



194 the province [©liratct of 

moisture, 'and more apprehension entertained of an excessive fell, tiiio of ft 
deficiency of rain. 

In 1801, the existing circumstances of Silhet tended to prove that the dia- 
trict had not experienced any very important amelioration, subsequent to the 
decennial settlement, neither had it wholly stagnated. Many of the estates 
which fall annually into arrears, and are exposed to public sale, are usually in a 
declining and unproductive condition, originating principally from the mis- 
conduct and bad management of the proprietors; the improper and iU^;al 
alienations of portions of their estates formerly made ; and the irreconcilable 
feuds and dissentions which agitate the numerous co-proprietors of estates, 
however small and insignificant. On this last class of landholders, confine- 
ment works no sort of beneficial operation, as they are much more incline to 
remain where they are, in jail, than to come out of it, and to such a state 
of subdivision have estates attained, that there is scarcely a convict who is not 
also a land proprietor. The population of Silhet not being sufficient for tiie 
cultivation of the whole, the peasantry are in the habit of cultivating the lands 
of several estates at one time, and in such quantities as circumstances permit, 
they are not therefore considered as exclusively attached to any zemindar. The 
consequence is, at the conclusion of the harvest they frequently shift from one to 
another, and the portion of land abandoned remains untilled, unless the proprietor 
can manage to procure in time other tenants. VThile jungle and other waste 
lands have been clearing, arable and cultivated fields are frequently observed 
relapsing to a state of nature, which is probably owing to a deficiency of 
population, and to the subdivision of property almost to evanescence. On the 
whole, however, cultivation may be described as having increased rather tlmn 
diminished since the commencement of the decennial settlement. The pea- 
santry are of themselves more disposed to engage in the culture of jungle 
lands, especially such as are covered with reeds, which during the dry 
season, when parched, may with little trouble be cleared, merely by the ap- 
plication of fire, and at the sarnie time emiched by the ashes. In 1801, the 
collector estimated the waste and uncultivated lands at two-thirds of the 
whole district ; but under the latter designation he piobaMy also mcluded Ihe 
lands lying fallow. 

An establishment named the Putwanry, exists m Silhet -for the pmiawe qf 
pointing out to individuals, the lands they have bought at the paMIe 
without which it would be extremely difficult for purchasers to ffiseowfar a^ 
discriminate such property, the lands being scattered in small feagmenj^ 
throughout different villages. To this establishment also the revenue crilkwfe 
are obliged to have reconrse, to ascertain wdud landsare the Jsit 



siiHiT.] OF BENGAL. I 95 

tilie twite, the adjacent zemindars being always alert in appropriating such 
Itmdt, unincumbered with the payment of any land-tax to the public treasury. 
In 1801, it was estimated that the produce of the rent-free lands was about 
one-fourth to the whole land-tax paid by the district ; and the lands exempted 
were then considered in the best state of cultivation. At that date the revenues 
of the whole district were collected in cowries, which was also the general 
medium of all pecuniary transactions, and a considerable expense was then 
incurred by government in effecting their conversion into bullion ; but betw'een 
that period and 1814, the circulation of these marine productions had been so 
gradually decreasing, that in 1813 the whole of the current revenue was realized 
in specie. 

In Silhet there are no regular schools or seminaries for teaching either the 
Hindoo or Mahommedan law, but in different places there are private schools 
where boys are taught to read and write. Although the Mahommedans here 
bear so great a proportion to the whole population, the mosques have been 
long going to ruin, while several small paltry Hindoo temples have been 
erected, and some of the merchants have changed their thatched dwellings for 
others of brick and mortar. In 1801, Mr. Ahmuty computed the inhabitants 
of Silhet at 188,245 men, 164,381 females, and 140,319 children, makin g a 
total of 492,945 persons, in the proportion of two Mahommedans to three 
Hindoos ; and Mr. Roberts, the magistrate, was of opinion that his jurisdiction, 
although one of the smallest in Bengal, contained no less than 27,000 Talook- 
dars. The number of houses was estimated by the collector at 103,637; and 
the boats belonging to the district at 23,000. During the Mogul government* 
and even at a less distant period, children used to be purchased here, and 
resold at Dacca and other places. Along the frontier of Silhet, towards the 
CoBSeah mountains, \here are several brick redoubts, with bastions at each end 
for the gmuds and ammunirien, and also, one at Bonasyl; the whole were 
built to repel the incursions of that uncivilized tribe which has long infested 
the low countries in their vicinity. A guard from the sebundy, or provincial 
battalion, is n^larly stationed in each of the forts at Myaram, Bamgong, 
dumtislah, Kontakhal, and Punduah, and to them is intrusted the preserra- 
ti<» oi tranquillity on the frontier, where they are cantoned, and where they 
lue periodically relieved by troops firom head quarters. Whenever the official 
avocaticiis oi die magistrate permit, he is directed by bis instructions to visit 
these fints, to ascertain their condition, and collect information regarding the 
atiite of the Ircmtier in general. 

in 1798, the low country of Bungong, on the north-west aide of ffie 
Bettmeh river, waa occupied by the Cdaaeah mountaineen, who acareriy ever 

cca 



196 the province [disteict o» 

paid the revenue due to government, the recovery pf which vrut foundi impiM* 
ticable, as the individuals on appearance of coercion, fled to tl«ir native moun- 
tains, which are inaccessible to a military force. On a repetition of this practice, 
the Marquis Cornwallis, then Governor-General, directed the Cosseahs to be ex- 
pelled, and the estates to be resumed and brought to public sale. After some 
trouble they were driven from the low lands, and confined to the hills, in the 
vicinity of which several masonry redoubts were erected and garrisoned with se- 
poys. From these measures much benefit resulted, and the pergunnah, then nearly 
in a state of nature, was settled and cultivated, and the amicable intercourse 
which afterwards took place had a tendency to civilize the habits of the wild 
people. Many murders, however, continue to be perpetrated on the borders of 
Silhet, by persons of this tribe, one of whose chiefs, in 1814, was named 
Jeett Singh. During that year a Cosseali council was conven€jd, and the 
subject of their consideration was a dam, which had been opened by the 
peasantry within the British territories, in revenge for which they determined 
to carry fire and sword into the pergunnah of Prerua. This resolution they 
carried into prompt execution, imder the immediate command of their chiefs, 
and in prosecution of it, destroyed two large villages, and killed four unof- 
fending cultivators of the soil. 

These atrocities were soon repressed, and the invaders driven to dens in the 
jungles; but their vicinity still continues a source of trouble and anxiety to 
every public functionaiy in charge of this district. By a gentleman who 
appears to know them well (Mr. Hayes) they are described as honest, feir in 
their dealings, of strict veracity, but outrageously vindictive ; in the three first 
mentioned qualitities, exhibiting a most striking contrast to their more 
civilized neighbours on the low grounds. Occasionally they sufifer arbitrary 
punishments and extortions from the inferior officers of government, who levy 
imposts of their own enactment on the articles of the traffic carried on between 
the inhabitants of Silhet and the Cosseahs, with whose chiefs they have hem 
also accused of carrying on a clandestine correspondence. 

During the Mogul government, as has already been mentioned, this district 
furnished a considerable number of slaves, and the practice of inveii^iii^ away 
its free natives, for the purpose of selling them at Dacca, Patna, Calcutta, and 
Moorshedabad, still continues, although from the vigilance of the Britiril 
authorities the attempt is rarely successfliU An authorized traffic in llilfs 
has existed here from time immemorial, and one of the magiatiailes estSmalad 
them at one-sixth of the whole population, progressively increasing by di«n|»lic 
propagation. The transfer of slaves takes place boi with and agabwl llffi 
consent of the slaves themselves, hut in the latter |l««dica»i«nl» ^ 

i K 



OF BENGAL. 


KAISIIAHT.] 


197 


iniMest ai^ moat indulgent conduct can secure to the purchaser any benefit 
firom his acquisition. Occasionally the poorer classes of free inhabitants sell 
themselves vrhen in extreme distress, and a few, principally slaves, are 
inveigled away by bazeegurs and wandering fakeers. Women also of the poorer 
idasses, both here and in the Backergunge district, when left widows, occa- 
sionally sell their children to procure food ; some have been hereditary slaves 
fi>r many generations, and are sold along with the estate on which they reside, 
while others are imported from Cachar, Gentiah, and other adjacent territories 
beyond the British jurisdiction . — ( John Ahmuty, Hayes, French, Sage, Colebroeke, 
F. Buchanan, J. Grant, Renncll, ^'c. ^'c. 

SiLiiET. — ^The travelling distance from Calcutta to this town is computed by 
Major Rennell at 325 miles ; but the direct distance does not exceed 260. It 
stands in lat. 24® 55' N. and long. 91® 40' E. and is a place of considerable 
size and commerce. 

Laour. — A town in the district of Silhet, 1 12 miles N. N. E. from the city 
of Dacca. Lat. 25® 10' N. long. 91° 12' E. A considerable trade is here car- 
ried on with the hill Garrows in salt and other articles. 

Azmerigunge (Ajamhida ganj), — ^This is a town of considerable inland 
traffic, and has besides a boat-building establishment. It is situated about 75 
miles N. E. from Dacca, lat. 24° 33' N. long. 91° 5' E. 

Toroff (Taraf),—A town in the Silhet district, 77 miles N. E. from Dacca, 
lat. 24° 20' N. long. 91° 18' E. 


THE DISTRICT OF RAJSHAHT (Rajshahi). 

This large district occupies the centre of the Bengal province, and is situ^ 
ated between the 24th and 25th degrees of north latitude. To the north it is 
bounded by Dinagepoor and Mymunsingh ; on the south by Birboom and 
Kishenagur; to the east it has Dacca, Jelalpoor, and Mymunsingh; and on 
the west Boglipoor and Birboom. This was the most extensive and unwieldy 
asemindary in Beugai, and in 1784, comprehended, according to Major 
Rmiiieirs mensuration, 12,999 square miles, yielding a revenue of 24 lacks of 
rupees. It is intersected in its whole length by the Ganges, or lesser branches, 
„ wthi many navigable rivers and fertilizing streams, and so watery is its nature, 
timi from the beginning of July to the end of November it is nearly submerged, 
in times of remote Hindoo antiquity, the particular portion, thus subject to 
pfohmged inundation, was named the region of Varendra. The northern por- 
ithm of ihe district, as it is now constituted, presente neither elevation, forest, 
Ml, or water-course, by the assumption of which a definite boundary might 



198 THE PROVINCE [sumcTor 

be fixed. In the vicinity of Hurrial the fiice of the surrounding country is 
extremely wild, woody, and otherwise fitted for the harbouring of dacoits. 
For the protection of the jeels, or shallow lakes, a swift guard-boat of 16 oars 
is retained, commanded by a jemadar, who is especially enjoined to super- 
intend the Chillam Jeel, the largest watery expanse of this description in Bengal. 

In 1725, this zemindary was conferred on Ram Jevon, a Brahmin, the 
founder of the present family, but since that period it has suffered much 
dissection, and little space comparatively now remains with his descendcmts. 
On the whole, however, the district has considerably improved since the date 
of the decennial settlement, afterwards rendered perpetual, much additional 
land having been reclaimed from waste, and the population also having visibly 
increased. From the very low surface of the district, it is ill adapted for the 
erection of solid edifices of brick or stone, and accordingly few are seen, and 
those are mostly insignificant Hindoo temples, or the more transitory dwellings 
of Europeans. The district contains no fort, except one belonging to the 
Nabob of Moorshedabad at Godagaree, which was built in former times as a 
place of refuge for the nabob’s household, and is now in a most ruinous coni* 
dition. The chief towns are Nattore (^the residence of the ms^strate), Bauieah, 
and Hurrial, and the district comprehends besides many populous, manu&c- 
turing, and commercial villages. Until the separation in modern times of several 
important pergunnahs, it produced four-fifths of all the silk, raw or manu- 
factured, used in or exported from Hindostan. In 1801, the collector was of 
opinion that three-fourths of the zemindars realized more than ten per cent, on 
the amount of their land-tax, and that the produce of the rent-free lands might 
be about three lacks of rupees per annum. In 1814, the jumma, oiC Ittn^ 
assessment was 1,469,814, and the abkarry 20,480. Prior to the separation of the 
pergunnahs above alluded to, the number of inhabitants was computed to be 
Males, 1,107,683; Females, 890,080; total, 1,997,763: 
but in 1801, they were estimated in round numbers at 1,600,000, in the 
proportion of two Hindoos to one Mahommedan. Within the limits of Raj- 
shahy there are 27 distinct tannahs, besides subordinate police stations ; and 
although not so extensive, it is more populous than the adjacent distxiet of 
Mymunsingh. In consequence of an unusual deficiency of the periodical pbsta, 
so early as the months of July and August, 1814, serious apprehensioai hi a 
scarcity were entertained by the inhabitants of the northma porthm of ^ 
zillah, and the grain merchants monopolized all they could purchase, until fi^y 
at last raised the price far beyond the utmost means of the poorer claaaei. 
When December arrived, a scanty harvest was got in, but the nttivot 



OF BENGAL. 


bajibabt.3 




driven to such extremities for food, that male and female in&nts were exposed 
to sale at tlm low prices of one, two, and three rupees, to save them from starva* 
tion, while many robberies were committed with the view of procuring imme- 
diate subsistence and satisfying the cravings of nature. — (Wynch, C. Gram,jun. 
A. GariaeTt J- Grant, J. Shakespear, Colebrooke, Sgc.) 

Nattoee '(Nathaver). — ^This place is situated 43 miles N. E. from Moorshe- 
dabsd, and is the capital of Rajshahy district, being the head quarters of the 
judge and magistrate, and site of the jail, which is always the most prominent 
edifice ia a Bengal district. Lat. 24° 25' N. long. 88° 55' E. Appearances 
&vour the supposition that the Ganges once had its bed in the tract now 
occupied by lakes and morasses between Nattore and Jafiiergunge. During the 
inundation there is a straight navigation for 100 miles from Dacca to this place 
across the jeels, or shallow lakes, leaving the villages, erected on artificial 
mounds, and the clumps of trees projecting out of the water, to the right and 
left, while the current is so gentle as scarcely to exceed half a mile per hour. — 
(RermeU, Sgc.) 

SEEapooE (Sirapura ). — A small town in the Rajshahy district, 74 miles N. E. 
from Moorshedabad. Lat. 24® 38' N. long 89° 20' E. 

Bauleah. — ^This is a town of some commercial importance, and stands on the 
north side of the Puddah or main branch of the Ganges, 21 miles N. E. from 
Moorshedabad. Lat. 24® 23' N. long. 88® 44' E. In 1815, a subsidiary police 
was established in this populous town, supported by the voluntary contributions 
of the inhabitants. In 1814, a plantation of teak trees which had been effected 
here had a thriving appearance. 

HUeeial ( Arayalaya, the abode of Vishnu ). — ^This is also a commercial mart, 
where the East India Company has long had an established factory for the pur- 
cltasing of ulk and cotton goods. Lat. 24® 19' N. long. 89® 17' E. 

Bettooeiau (Bhitoria). — ^This was a subdivision of the great zemindary of 
Ri^dudiy. A. D. 1386, Raja Cansa, the Hindoo zemindar of this district, 
rebelled i^;ainst Shums ud Deen, the Mahommedan sovereign of Bengal, who 
was defeated and slain. On this event Raja Cansa ascended the vacant throne, 
iriiidhi, after a reign of seven years, he transmitted to his son Cheetmul, who, 
Blahommedan, reigned under the name of Sultan Jellal ud Deen. 

Buxipooe. — A small town in the Rajshahy district, 51 miles S. E. -from 
Mbocahedabad, Lat. 26* 15' N. loi^. 88° 5& E. 

CoxEECoi.i;.T (KtmarkhaU).-^^)^ town stands a few miles south from the 
nplB altcfoa of the great branch of the Ganges, named tbe Puddah, about 64 
8,. £. Moorshedabad. Lat 23® 52' N. hmg. 86* 11' E. Eaat 



200 TH® province [DisTtiOT Of 

Cu8t£e (Kushti).—T\iM is the port of ComercoUy, and is idtunM clOso to 
the Ganges, 52 miles E. S. E. from Moorshedabad. Lat. 23« 4' N. long. 89* S' E. 
During the rainy season there is a passage past this town for boabi to the 
Hooghly river. 

Sheebgonge (Sivaganj ). — large and flourishing viUi^ in tilie Rajshahy 
district, eligibly situated on the banks of the Caratoya river. This is a place of 
considerable commerce, and in point of size and population only inferior to 
Nattore and Bauleah. — (Wptch, 8^c.) 

PuBKA (Pavana ). — A town in the Rajshahy district, 63 miles E. from the 
city of Moorshedabad. Lat. 24' N. long. 89* 12' E. 

Rajamahal. — ^T his town and adjacent territory belong to the province 
Bengal, although now annexed to the division of Boglipoor, which ranks as a 
Bahar district, and under which head further particulars will be found. In 
old documents it is also named Acber Nuggur from its capital, and in the 
revenue records Cankjole, as being the chief military division. It is situated on 
the south western bank of the Ganges, and was formerly the seat of an important 
military government on the confines of Bengal towards Bahar, commanding scone 
of the mountainous passes into both countries, particularly the femous pass of 
TuUiagurry. the possession of which was deemed of much consequence in the 
time of the hostile independence of the two Soubahs. 

11)0 city of Rajamahsd stands on the S. W. side of the Ganges, about 70 miles 
N . N. W. from Moorshedabad. Lat. 26* 2' N. long. 87* 43' E. During the reign of 
the Emperor Acber, A. D. 1601, Raja Mauu Singh, on his. return from the con- 
quest of the Afghans of Orissa, fixed upon the town of Agmahal for the capital of 
Bengal, the name of which he changed to Rajamahal ; but by the Mahommedans 
it is occasionally distinguished by the name of Acbernuggur. The Raja in pro- 
secution of his plan erected a palace, and surrounded the town with a nunpart 
of brick and other fortifications. In 1608, the seat of government was removed 
from hence to Dacca by Islam Khan, but in 1639 was brought back by Bidtan 
Shujah, the unfortunate brother of Aurengzebe, during whose goveriummt it 
attained great importance, being the established capital of the Bengal and Bfduur 
provinces, for which it is admirably situated. This prince for 1^ temponury 
residence erected a splendid building, called the Sunggedfdan, Of Slonc 
Hall, which is now in a miserable state of ruin. A great deal df fiMa Iniihling 
has been pulled down for its materials, especially the atones, whidh tone beed 
employed to construct the palaces of the nabobs of Moorshedabad, and nradi 
has been removed to make room for modem hovds. 

Since the era above mentioned, Ruamahal has p eces tarily gmad Saebi* 

nation, which ha. probably been aiedemted by the mi^val of 
cwm. <* to Bo^pw. It luwror. m • lof* 



RUKOPOOft.] OF BENGAL. 201 

Tublush and disperaed state of the houses, render its appearance very dis- 
mal. It still contains 12 market places, scattered over an immense extent, 
and the resident population duty be computed at 30,000, besides travellers by 
land and water, who are always numerous ; and the supplying of whom widi 
necessaries forms the principal support of the town. Within its limits is the 
tomb of Meerun, the son of Jaffier Ali, the predecessor and also the successor of 
Ckissim Ali. Meerun (by whose orders Seraje ud Dowlah was assassinated) 
was killed by lightning, and buried here in a tomb of small size, but neatly 
kept, many flowers being planted near it. — (F. Buchanan, Stewart, Lord 
Vakntia, Sfc.) 

SiCLYOULi (SancriguU, the Narrow Pass). — ^This celebrated pass is situated in 
in the province of Bengal, about eight miles N. by W. from Rajamahal, and marks 
the boundaries of the Bengal and Bahar provinces. This pass during the Hindoo 
and Mahommedan governments was the commanding entrance from Bahar into 
the kingdom of Bengal, and was fortified with a strong wall, which does not 
appear, however, to have been of any real service, as in 1742, a Maharatta 
army of cavalry penetrated into Bengal to the S.W. of this pass, through the hills 
above Colgong. 

OuPANULLA (Udayala Nala). — A small town in the Bengal portion of the 
Boglipoor district, 62 miles N. W. by N. from Moorshedabad. Lat. 24® 56' N. 
long. 87” 62' £. There is not any substance so coarse as gravel, either in the 
Delta of the Ganges, or nearer the sea than Oudanulla, which is 400 miles distant 
by the windings of the river. At this place a rocky point, part of the base of thCL 
neighbouring hills, projects into the river. Besides an elegant bridge erected 
here by the unfortunate Sultan Shujah, this place is noted for the extensive 
lines constructed here by Cossim Ali, and forced by the troops under Major 
Adams in 1764. These lines in fact could only be of use during the rainy 
season, as between the right flank and the hills, there is an extensive tract of 
rice ground. The lines are now a complete ruin, and very few traces remain 
of the approaches made by the assailants, when they were stormed by Major 
Adams, and during the rainy season, at which period they were thought 
strongest. But in reality they were of no strength at any time, and only served 
to m a ke the garrison imagine themselves secure from attack, when the &ct was 
exactly the reverse, — (F. Buchanan, Bcnnell, Hodges, 8^c.) 

DISTRICT OF RUNGPOOR (Bmg&pura). 

This district occupies the north eastmn Extremity Bengal, and is piincij^dly 
i^lvslid between the 25th and 26th.di^rrees of north latitude. To the north it 
haaJlootnB) on the lenBi it has ttie distnet of Mymunungh and the Gaiwwa 



202 THE PROVINCE [oistbxct of 

mountain's j to the east Assam and theGarrows; and on the west Dinagepoor. 
Its extreme length from the confines of Assam to the borders of Morung is 185 
British miles, and its greatest breadth, which is from the limits of Rajshahy to 
the frontier of Bootan, 116 miles. The shape of this district is so exceedingly 
irregular as to bid defiance to description ; but the main feature of its eccen- 
tricity is the deep sweep which the Cooch Bahar territory takes between it» 
north western and its south eastern extremes, which can scarcely be exceeded 
in perplexity. The course of the Caratoya was, at the suggestion of Mr. Parr, 
made the general line of boundary between Rungpvor and Dinagepoor, and 
probably the channel which the river then followed was as good a common 
boundary as could have been fixed upon ; but by this arrangement the limits of 
the two jurisdictions were hu* frbm being clearly defined, for the Caratoya is 
liable to change, according to the channel the main rush of the Teesta (which, 
notwithstanding its name, is never at rest) enters. In the present instance its 
course has varied very considerably since it was selected for the common 
boundary, and the frontier villages have consequently become intermixed. The 
head stations of the two districts have also been badly chosen, both with 
reference to their respective jurbdictions, and distance from each other. To 
the southward from Seebgunge, where the line of the Rungpoor boundary quits 
the Caratoya, to the site of the Currybarry tanna, the irregularity of division is 
extreme, which cannot fail to operate very materially to the prejudice of the 
general police of Rungpoor, as well as of the circumjacent districts. Besides 
these, Rungpoor labours under other peculiar local disadvantages, in the vast 
extent of its frontier, exposed to no less than five independent states (Nepaul, 
Bootan, Cooch Bahar, Assam, and the Garrows) from which it is separated, not 
by large rivers, lofty mountains, or any other natural landmarks, but by boun- 
daries, for the most part, merely imaginary ; and, as might be expected from 
such ill defined limits, the possession of the frontier tracts is every where 
contested. 

According to Di. Francis Buchanan, this district contains 7,400 square miles, 
distributed in the following proportions : 

Square miles. 


Land occupied by rivers, tanks, and water courses . . . 901 

Clay land, inundated during the wet season .... 87 

Ditto, good free soil, ditto 1,633 

Light sandy soil, ditto 720 

Clay lands exempt irom inundation and fit for the plough . 128 


3,419 



IVKOPOOE.] 


OF BENGAL. 


903 


Brought forward 3,419 

Red free soil exempt from inundation and fit for the plough 400 

Ash-coloured good soil ditto 2,590 

Ash-coloured light sandy soil ditto 573 

HUls .... 418 

Total 7,400 

Since the survey by Major Rennell, the rivers of this district have undergone 
such changee. that there is great difficulty in tracing them. Their banks are 
in general low, and the inundation so far from raising the ground by a deposition 
of sediment, seems gradually to be sinking the rivers deeper and deeper below 
the level of the plains. The names of the principal rivers and streams, are the 
following, viz. — 

The Brahmaputra, Dhorla, Sorbomangala, 

Teesta, Gudadhor, Jamuni, 

Mahananda, Rutnayi, Korla, 

Caratoya, Nagor, Nilkumar, 

Manas, Ghoramana, Grurango. 

Chonkosb, 

In Rungpoor there are several jeels, and in the north eastern division five 
miles north from Jughigopa, a beautiful cluster of lakes, where in the wet 
season they are overwhelmed by the Brahmaputra. The heats of the spring are 
not so scorching and parching as towards the western quarter of the Bengal 
province, the hot winds being rarely experienced for more than eight or ten 
days to tiie west, and in the east are scarcely known. The soil differs con- 
siderably from that of Dinagepoor, to which it is generally inferior. Towards 
the east there is much free red soil, called rangamatty, which produces stately 
forests, much encumbered with enormous climbing plants, and by an under- 
growth of reeds. Tanks are rare, the district not containing one of any nu^ni- 
tudc. To the east of the rivers Brahmaputra and Chonkosh, the country is 
hilly, the ranges of hills seldom exceeding eight miles in length by two in 
breadth, nor (excluding the Gaixow mountains) more than 1,200 feet in height. 
These ranges form no continued chain, being everywhere surrounded by low 
level lands, and during the rainy season nearly insulated. Shells in large quan- 
tities axe burned into lime, both for the purposes of the indigo manufactures., 
and for chewing with betel. 

Bamboos are so abundant that 100 are sold for a rupee, and at Goalparah, 
althov^h so remote from the sea coast, (250 miles,) the cocoa nut palms not only 
their fruit, but yield it in abundance. Wheat is a conuderable crop, but, 

s 9 2 « 



204 the province [DMTRICT oi 

except at the capital, and in some of the principal fitmilies, the people not 
having the art of converting it into flour, boil it like rice. Barley is little 
cultivated, and maize almost unknown. The quantity of cotton cultivated is 
insignificant, although there be much waste land fit for it, nor is the sugar cane 
raised in any considerable quantity. The grand staple of the district is tobacco ; 
and the betel leaf required for internal consumption is enormous. The poppy 
was tormerly cultivated on government account, and theillicit cultivation, through 
the connivance ol the native officers, still continues. Indigo is cultivated, but on 
account of the great moisture of the district, it is difficult to preserve the seed in 
good vegetating condition, but the whole cultivation is of no consequence tc the 
general prosperity. Three species of profitable insects are reared by the far- 
mers ; the mulberry and ricinus silk worms, and the lac insect. All the imple- 
ments necessary for a farm of one plough may here be purchased for 7s. ; the 
cost of a sugar mill is 12^. Ad. and the total cost of working it about three 
guineas. Elephants are numerous throughout the two eastern divisions, and 
wherever there are extensive forests and thickets, the rhinoceros is not uncom- 
mon, and is quite harmless, injuring neither persons nor crops. The other 
remarkable animals are apes, monkies, black bears, and most enormous tigers. 

The great farmers in Rungpoor are mostly Brahmins, Kayastas, and Mahom- 
medans of some rank, and the leases may be said to be in perpetuity, or perhaps 
rather, that the occupants of the soil are the real proprietors, bound to pay a 
certain tax to government through the zemindar, and in most parts the rent is 
paid in monthly instalments fixed by the regulations. The landlords as yet 
appear to have no confidence in the promises of government, and consider the 
perpetual settlement as of no value, for they cannot believe it possible that the 
supreme authority should know of their receiving lai^ sums of money, without 
immediately demanding a share. The manners of this class are generally very 
indifferent. Few, especially of the older fiimilies, ever visit each other, but live 
surrounded by dependants and flatterers, especially mendicant vagrants, who 
entertain them with marvellous stories. A great proportion of these miscreants 
is composed of men who pretend to have devoted their lives to religion, poverty 
and abstinence. Some families pretend to be of divine origin, others are de- 
scended from princes who have governed the country ; but a great proportion of 
those who possess the most valuable lands are new men, who have purchased 
their estates at auction, among which number are the descendants of Canta Ba- 
boo, Mr, Hastings’s dewan. The estates of the Boruya contain 470 square miles, 
yet pay only 3,000 rupees per annum to government. 

AU ranks in this district spin cotton thread, but a considerable part of the raw 
oMmW U impottad 6om tlw wnt of ladi, by the way of Bogtwngol* end 



OF BENGAL. 


ftVNOPOOB.] 


205 


Moorshedabad. The Company purchase most of the best sugar, the remainder 
is consumed on the spot. The natives have commenced the manufactory of in- 
digo, after the European fashion, and in 1809 had 16 factories. The grain goes 
mostly to Serajegunge and Narraingunge, to which places paper is also sent. 
The opium is a contraband trade. The lac comes from Assam, and the wax 
mostly from the Nepaulese territories and Assam. A considerable quantity of 
salt after being miserably adulterated is exported to Assam, Bootan, and the 
Garrow country. The raw silk is mostly exported by the Company. English 
woollens are imported, chietly for the Bootan market, but the demand is very 
inconsiderable. A little is also sent to Assam. The common currency is the 
kuldar rupee of Calcutta, and cowries, there being very little gold and no copper. 
In the eastern divisions napkins worth about 3^/. and portions of salt, are also 
used for the purposes of change. There are here many old roads, attributed to 
Nilambar Raja, now become ruinous, and destitute of bridges, which, even of 
brick, cannot in this climate be expected to last more than twenty years. In 
1809, the total exports of all descriptions were estimated at 36 J lacks of rupees, 
and the total imports at 14i lacks. 

The area of the district, which comprises an extent of 7,400 square miles, is 
subdivided into 25 police jurisdictions, comprehending an establishment of 399 
Burkendauzes, and 25 Pykes. Of these, 22 tannas, or police stations, are es- 
ablished over 4,200 square miles of country west of the Chonkosh and Brah- 
maputra, and the remaining three in the tract lying east of these rivers. This 
improvident subdivision appears to have arisen from the original arrangement 
having been regulated by the extent of certain pergunnahs, and particular pro- 
perties, rather than by a reference to the general features of the country, or 
peculiarities of situation. A reference to the account below, will shew how 
much the several police jurisdictions vary in extent and population. 

Square miles. Estimated population. 


Mahagunge 

64 

50,000 

Dhap 

344 

. 272,000 

Phoorunbarry 

180 

6,600 

Bamy 

172 

92,000 

Patgong 

82 

45,000 

Fakeergunge 

184 

73,000 

Beenacoonry 

1^7 

83,000 

Boda .... 

362 

. 231,000 

Bimla 

195 

94,000 

Burwaimy , 

228 

. 142,000 

Koonwtu^nge 

148 . 

64,000 



206 . the province [dhtbict of 


Mulung 

153 

82,000 

Bogdooas 

126 

74,000 

Beergunge 

152 

72,000 

Sadoolapoor 

163 

. 147,000 

Dewangunge 

100 

43,000 

Bhowannygunge 

355 

. 157,000 

Chilmary 

198 

75,000 

Wuleepoor . 

287 

. 169,000 

Burrabarry . 

218- . 

. 134,000 

Nakasury 

250 

. 140,000 

Dhubry 

1,135 

83,000 

Rangamatty 

1,780 

93,000 

Currybarry 

869 

unknown. 


la many instances, a darogah of police with his myrmidons on scanty allow- 
ance, prove the scourge of the division over which'he presides. A darogah here 
is only allowed 25 rupees per month, out of which he is to provide himself and 
family with food and raiment, suitable to the apparent respectability of his office, 
and pay the expense of a dozen journeys during the month into the interior of 
his jurisdiction. His establishment is only ten men, to preserve the peace of 
400 square miles of country, and of these the west country Burkendauzes 
appear to have no other object in view, than to get rich as fast as they can by 
lending money at usurious interest, a pernicious practice to which they are all 
greatly addicted. The very barbarous state of the divisions east of the Chon- 
kosh and Brahmaputra, the thinness of the population, and the great vraste of a 
highly fertile soil, overrun with wilds and forests, and abandoned to the fM* 
naturae, are evils liighly to be regretted, nor does any more likely method of im- 
proving the condition of the country occur, than the establishing of a European 
officer at Goalparah, with a civil and criminal jurisdiction over these tracts, to 
whom the superintendance of the Garrow trade might also be delegated. The 
same functionary might conduct any trade or imposts that the government 
might think expedient to establish on the frontiers of Assam, while he would at 
the same time coerce the extortions of the native military detatchment stationed 
at Jughigopa. The other frontiere bordering on Morung and Bootan are infested 
by colonies of s wandering class of people named Keechuks or Geedarmari, 
who are robbers by birth and 4vho seldom rob without adding the crime of 
murder. In 1813, the magistrate succeeded in effecting the capture of a num- 
ber of Keechuks in Nizamtara, a small fort across the Mahananda, which eiploit 
frightened from the Bootan border a large band of these mercilest ruffians* 



auNOPOOR.} OF BENGAL. 207 

The total population of the Rungpoor district was by Dr. Francis Buchanan, 
after a laborious investigation, estimated as follows : — 


Number of Mahommedans 

• • • 

. 1,536,000 

Ditto of Hindoos 

* • • 

. 1,194,350 

Ditto of Asuricks or infidels 

• 

4,650 



Total 2,735,000 

And in the following proportions, viz. 

Persons who do not work 343,000 


Artificers 

. 326,000 


Cultivators 

. 2,066,000 



Total 2,735,000 


including the whole district the estimate will give 370 to the square mile ; but 
if it be divided into two portions, separated by the Chonkosh and Brahmaputra 
rivers, the eastern division will contain at the rate of nearly 60 persons to the square 
mile, while the western in the same extent will contain 570. The grand check 
to population in this district is disease, the natives being exceedingly unhealthy, 
and the children feeble, so that a large proportion of the infants die, even of 
those not in a state of indigence ; and although for thirty years, food has never 
been so scarce as to approach to a famine, a large proportion of excellent land 
still remains unoccupied. The forest of Par but Joyaur contains 360 square 
miles, yet this extensive tract is occupied by only 500 persons, and only 500 
rupees of revenue is annually received from the proprietor. Among the domes- 
tics there are both male and female slaves, especially towards Assam, and every- 
where along the northern frontier. The people of Assam sell many slaves, and 
those nf Cooch Bahar are not unwilling to carry on the same trade. Rungpoor 
being a portion of Camroop (the Hindoo region of sensual love), public prostitu- 
tion is extremely common in the district, where about 1,200 houses are occupied 
by females of that profession, who have assumed the organization of a regular 
society, with a* priesthood adapted to their manner of life. In 295 houses, there 
were found to be 460 females, between the ages of 12 and 25 years, 218 advanced 
in life who acted as servants and superintendants ; and the community also con- 
tained 39 old men, 35 youths, and 14 boys, all bom of the sisterhood. These 
prostitutes, although mostly bom of Mahommedan parents, affect Hindoo man- 
ners, on whidi account they abstain from all impure food, and before the age of 
puberty undergo the ceremony of marriage with a plantain tree. 

In 1809, Dr. Francis Buchanan estimated the Mahommedans in the proportion 
of ten to nine Hindoos, and the ftdth of the former appeared to be daily gaining 
owuig to the aumber of converts expelled from thw origis^ castes- 



THE PROVINCE 


208 


[district Of 


The two religions are on the most fnendly terms, and mutually apply to the 
deities or saints of the other, when they imagine that appUcationr to their own 
will prove ineffectual. The great majority of the inhabitants do not appear to 
be intruders, but descendants from the original inhabitants. The whole number 
of Brahmins, at the period above mentioned, was about 6000 families, or one* 
forty-third of the whole Hindoo population. The number of people in Rungpoor, 
upon whom no sort of impression has been made by the Brahmins is very incon- 
siderable, and are included under the general term of Asuric, strictly signifying 
persons who have no god ; that is to say, who worship God in a manner different 
from the Hindoos and Mahommedans. The most prevalent sect among the 
Brahmins is that of the Sacta, the followers of which rejecting the Purans, 
adopt as their chief guides the books called Tantras, which it is supposed 
were composed by the god Siva, for the instruction of his wife Parvati. 

Under the Mogul government, Rungpoor v/as a military frontier station towards 
the Morung and Cooch Bahar, and was partially wrested from the raja of the 
latter district, during the reign of Shah Jehan, when it was formed into a circar ; 
but it was completely conquered by the generals of Aurengzebe, in 1660-1, when 
it received the name of Fakerkoondy. It devolved to the British government 
along with the rest of the province in 1765, since which its condition has been 
gradually improving. In 1801, the annual revenues of Rungpoor includingCooch 
Bahar, amounted to 1,066,135 rupees; and in 1814 were 1,062,115 rupees, ex- 
clusive of Cooch Bahar, which was 62,722 rupees. The lands paying revenue 
to government were, in 1801, considered by the collector as better cultivated than 
those that were rent free. In this district there are the ruins of several ancient 
cities of great extent, such as Komotapoor, and the city of Prithee Raj. in the 
division of Sanyasigotta. At present the principal towns are Rungpoor, Mun- 
gulhaut, Chilmary, and Goalparah. 

The prevalence of gang robbery in 1813, in the police division of Boda, was 
attributed by the superintendant of police, to the activity of a body of Keechuks 
(wanderers, natives of Bootan), who had been sent from Nuddea to Rungpoor, 
to be marched over the frontier to their own coimtry. These banditti were fiwt 
apprehended in the Sunderbunds, where they were found possessed of a large 
quantity of property, and of many implements of a suspicious descriptwn. 
1 he total number, comprehending men. women, and children, amounted to be 
tween 2 and 300 persons, without any visible mode of obtaining an honest live- 
lihood ; and as they had been for many months wandenng through the British 
provinces, it was deemed eligible, with a view to the security of the ooinaw>t»ity, 
to have them conducted to their own reputed country. They were sent into 
Bootan, from whence they were supposed to have mede mctuhioiii into BW 


\ 

\ 



suvopooB.] OF BENGAL. 209 

poor, where, having committed depredations, they retreated with their plunder 
heyond the frontier ; hut in 1813, as already related, the magistrate succeeded 
in capturing a number of them. In 1814, this functionary expressed his opinion 
that the murders committed on the other frontier by the Gkurrows, were solely 
occasioned by their desire to obtain human skulls ; but the acquisition of these 
ornaments did not appear to be the only motive, as he also stated that these 
enormities had commenced after the sale of the pergunnah of Cuirybarry 
in 1809, subsequent to which the ejected proprietor had resided among the 
Garrow mountains. ('i*. Bmhamn, Sisson, J. Grant, J. Shakespear, Tur- 
Her, ^'C.) 

Teesta River (Tishta, standing still ). — ^The source of this river has never 
been explored, but according to Nepaulese reports, it rises in Tibet, whence, 
after opening a passage through the great Himalaya ridge, forming the boundary 
of the Chinese empire, it enters the mountainous country to the south, and be- 
fore last war separated the dominions of the Gorkas, from those of the Deb Raja 
of Bootan. While proceeding from the hills, the Teesta falls down the precipices 
of a mountain, about 50 miles north of Jelpigory, and enters the Rungpoor dis- 
trict near its northern extremity, where it is bounded by the country of Sikkim, 
and has a channel 800 yards wide, containing at all seasons a great deal of water, 
with a quick stream broken by stones and rapids. South from the cataract, 
single logs of wood can be floated to within ten miles of the Bengal frontier, to 
which distance canoes can ascend. In the dry season, boats of 150 maunds can 
ascend to Paharpoor, near the frontiers of Sikkim ; but during the rains, boats of 
1000 maunds. This river, during its course through the British territories, re- 
ceives the accession of many streams, and is subjected to frequent changes of 
name and channel, until it at last joins the Pudda, or great branch of the Ganges 
near Nabol^nge ; after performing a course, including windings, of about 400 
miles.-— (’JF. Buchanan, ^'c.J 

Kobotot A Cor CarattpJ.^By the Nepaulese, this river is said to rise among 
tbe lower hills of Sikkim, at a place named Brahmacoond. After it enters the 
fi'ingtd provin ce, it forms part of the boundary between the districts of Rung- 
poor wi d Dinagepoor, losing and recovering its name several times, until it is at 
last swallowed up by the Teesta, which, although the smaller river, absorbs the 
of the other, and communicates its own. In the rainy season it is navi- 
boats of 400 maunds to Bhojonpoor, and considerable quantities of 
tiiBlMMr axe floated down its stream. — (F. Buchanan, fy:.) 

BtAiTAS Riveb.— Thia small river is only remarkable as being the boundary 
of flae Brirish territories on flie nortli eastern extremity of Bengal, where it se- 
ptoitss them ftom toe independent possesstons toe Ba|n of B^nee. In the 



210 THE PROVINCE [distbict o» 

dry season it is navigable for boats of 50 or 60 maunds, as far as BijneC; 'where 
the raja resides, but there is very little commerce carried on by its channel. 
It falls into the Brahmaputra at Jughigopa, opposite to Goalpara. — (F. Bu- 
chanan, ^'C.) 

Rukgpoob. — ^Although this town is usually considered as the capital of the 
district, yet the magistrate does not reside within its bounds ; nor are the court- j 
house, jail, or other public buildings within its precincts ; but it contains the col- 
lectors’ office and the Company’s factory. The town of Rungpoor may be con- 
sidered as composed of four sepai'ate villages, much scattered and separated from 
each other, even by fields ; it being only near the police office, that there is any 
appearance of a town. In 1809, the dwelling-houses were said to be 3000 , the 
number of distinct roofs or buildings 10,000; and the population from 15 to 
20,000 persons. Within the whole space there are 42 brick buildings, 10 ware- 
houses or shops, 7 small Hindoo chapels, 3 public temples, 2- monuments of Ma- 
hommedan saints, and 6 mosques. This place is 260 travelling miles from Cal- 
cutta ; the road indifferent, and intersected by an amazing number of rivers and 
water courses, which must be crossed in boats ; yet, in a palanquin, the journey 
is with ease gone over in four days. Lat. 25® 43' N. long. 89® 22' E. 

The public offices are situated at Dhap, where the Europeans reside ; their 
houses extending along an excellent road, bordered on each side by a row of 
trees, presenting a very pleasing appearance in a country in other respects desti- 
tute of ornament. The number of houses are about 300. — ( F. Buchanan, ^c.) 

Guzootta (Gajacata, the Elephant Fort ). — A small town in the Rungpoor dis- 
trict, 10 miles north from the capital, lat. 25® 50' N. long. 89® 15' E. 

Jalalgunge. — A small town in the Rungpoor district, 135 miles W, N. W. 
from Dacca, lat. 25® 30' N. long. 89® 28' E. 

Patgong (Patragrama). — A town in the Rungpoor district, 38 miles N.N W. 
from the town of Rungpoor, lat. 26® 18' N. long. 88" 55' E. 

S ANY Asi GOTTA ( Satiny asicutci). — A division of the Rungpoor district, situated 
at the north western extremity, in the centre of which is a territory belon^ng to 
the Deb Raja of Bootan. 

Jelpesii.— Situated in latitude 26® 28' N. long. 88“ 45' E. 60 miles N. N* W. 
from Rungpoor. At tliis place there is a noted Hindoo temple, erected by the 
Rajas of Cooch Bahar in honour of the god Siva, from whom the Cooch BahAr 
and Bykantpoor Rajas are fabulously said to be lineally descended.— {"SliMMii, ^.) 

Jelpigory. — A small town formerly fortified in the Rui^^poor district, 65 
miles N. N. W. from Rungpoor, lat. 26® 30' N. long. 88® 25' E. 

Mango LHAUT (Mangahhata,aFlmrUhmgMarket),---‘K^m!Mm3cA»tm^ 
town mriie Rungpoor district, 20 mfies from the cafHtel, lit. Sfi® 



KUKOPOOH.] OF BENGAL, 211 

89^ 20' E. This place is situated on the south side of the river Durlah, which 
separatus Rungpoor from Cooch Bahar. The houses are uncommonly good, the 
streets spacious, and the whole town has a very superior appearance when com- 
pared with those of the vicinity. On the river are numerous boats of great bvir- 
then. Coarse cotton goods are the staple commodity, and this town furnishes a 
considerable part of the return cargo, which is carried by the Bootan caravan 
annually from Rungpoor. — (Turner, (^c.j 

Komotapoor. — A. town, or rather the ruins of one, in the district of Rung- 
poor, situated on the west bank of the Durlah river, which from the vastness of 
the masses, and the extent of surface they cover, must have been built by some 
prince who could comi^and the labour of an extensive or populous tract of coun- 
try. They were explored and are described by Dr. Francis Buchanan in his 
manuscript report to the Bengal government. — ( F. Buchanan, Sgc.) 

Chilmarry (Chalamari). — This town stands on the banks of the great Brah- 
maputra river, about 130 miles N. by W. from Dacca, lat. 25° 25' N. long. 
88° 42' E. It is a place of considerable resort, and contains about 400 houses ; 
but it is principally remarkable from its vicinity to Varuni Chur, a sand bank in 
the river, where Hindoo pilgrims in great numbers assemble at a certain festival, 
and as is customary on these occasions, much commercial business is transacted. 
In ordinary years about 00,000 are said to meet, but the numbers increase to 
100,000 when the festival happens on a Wednesday, when people come even from 
Benares and Juggemauth. — ( F. Biichanah, ^c.J 

Rangamatty ( Rangamati, coloured clai/ ). — A subdivision of the Rungpoor 
district, of which it occupies the north eastern extremity. During the Mogul 
government, this tract was comprehended within tlie jurisdiction of Rungpoor, 
in which it still continues. It stretches on both sides of the Brahmaputra east- 
erly to the confines of Assam, throughout a wild and little cultivated region, in 
1784, estimated to contain 2629 square miles, many parts of which were, and 
still are, capable of being rendered extremely productive ; but at present they 
yield little to the sovereign, except a few elephants, and these of a bad quality, 
annually caught in the interior and boundary forests. Rangamatty is intersected 
hy the Brahmaputra, and contains the territorial subdivisions of Mechpara, How- 
eraghaut, Bijnee (within the British territories), and the great forest of Parbut 
Joyaur. — (J. Gtmt, ^c.) 

Ramgahatty. — Situated in latitude 26° 9' N. long. 90° E. 52 miles N. E. fircan 
the town of Rungpoor. Fifty years ago, this place is said to have contained 
1500 honaeat several of which were inhabited by Mogul chiefs, and others by 
Phrtdgwrae. At present, its condition is very miserable, exhibiting only 260 
hdtlt tad of public buildings the vestiges of a fort and mosque. From 

£ £. 2 



212 , THE PROVINCE [disteict ot 

the town to the forest of Parbut Joyaur, some traces of habitations may be ob> 
served, with many fruit trees scattered through the forest. The police office for 
this division is at Goalpara. — (F. Buchanan^ Sgc.) 

Goalpara (Govalpara ), — ^This town stands on the south side of the Brahma- 
putra, about 23 miles from the frontiers of Assam, and 170 N. by £. from the 
city of Dacca. Lat. 26* 8' N. long. 90** 38' £. Goalpara contains some good 
thatch houses and a street of shops ; which, in this remote and barbarous region, 
excite great admiration among the rude tribes in its vicinity. The number of 
houses that may be considered as belonging to the town, amount to about 400 ; 
most of them miserable huts, and except a few, regularly surrounded by the 
floods for above two months in the year, so that the only passage from house to 
house is in boats ; and inside, the floors are covered from 1 to 3 feet deep with 
water. In other respects also, this place exhibits a squalid scene of vice and 
misery. Goalpara is, notwithstanding, a town of considerable resort, and the 
principal mart of the intercourse with the Assamese, who bring here coarse 
cloths, stick lac, tar, wax, and occasionally gold, for barter. Salt is the article 
they usually take in return, but it is delivered to them much adulterated. 
Neither is this traffic so considerable as might have been expected, owing to the 
disorderly state of the Assam country, and savage manners of the chiefs, who 
frequently settle unadjusted accounts by the assassination of their creditors. 
Goalpara has been repeatedly transferred from one European trader to another, 
and at last sold to a Kengiya merchant. In 1809, the estate was under the ma- 
nagement of the collector, the owner being a minor; and yielded about 2500 
rupees per annum. 

There are a few families of native Portugueze scattered over the Rungpoor 
district, but at Goalpara there are as many as twenty. Here they are termed 
Choldar, which seems to be a corruption of soldier. None of them can either 
read or write : only two or three know a few words of Portugueze, and they have 
entirely adopted the dress of the natives. The only European customs they re- 
tain are, that the women courtesy, and tibe men shew by the motion of the hand 
as they pass, that they would take off their hat if they had one. Notwith- 
standing the want of this distinguished covering, the men retain some portkm 
of European activity, and are much feared by the natives, who employ as 
messengers in making a demand, such as the payment of a debt, to a comjdkmce 
with which they think a little fear may contribute. The femflfls gain « sub- 
sistence chiefly by sewing and distilliug spirituous liquors, of which UMt a*tM« 
the men consume as much as they can afford, and retail the remaindiT. Con- 
cemmg the Christian religion, they appear to know little or nothinf, j^ve 
they any priest. Sometimes they go to Bowal, near Bacca, in order to 



EVKorooR.] OF BENGAL. 213 

R priTOt to marry them ; but in general this is too expensive, and they content, 
themselves vrith the public acknowledgment of their marrii^es. 

In 1810, Mr. Robert Kyd, a master builder of Calcutta, was deputed by the 
government to the Goalpara forests, for the purpose of collecting specimens of 
the timber reported to be produced in these woods, which being situated in the 
vicinity of the Brahmaputra, the timber could be floated down to Calcutta at 
all seasons of the year. Mr. Kyd accordingly proceeded to that quarter of the 
province, and cut down various logo, which, however, did not reach the presi- 
dency until December 1811, when they were lodged in the mast yard of Messrs. 
Kyd and Co. who were instructed to record their opinion of their quality and 
properties. In 1813, it was found that several of the specimens had already 
decayed, probably owing to their having been felled at an improper season, and 
to their not having undergone the process of having the sap trimmed off; and 
with respect to the others, no satisfactory decision has as yet been come to. The 
durability of timber is known greatly to depend upon its being felled when full 
grown, and also after being first sapped, simultaneously with the fall of the leaf; 
but from the want of time and convenient opportunity, the specimens above al- 
luded to had not the advantage of a regular process, having been mostly selected 
and felled from the size and appearance of the trees as they stood in the forest ; 
and even after a new wood has been introduced into general use, it requires a 
aeries of years and experiments tc establish its character for durability. — (F. 
Buchanan, PuhUc MS. documents, S^c.) 

JuGioHOPA. — ^This place stands on the north side of the Brahmaputra, nearly 
opposite to Goalpara, at the extremity of the British dominions in the north- 
eastern quarter of Bengal. Lat. 26* 12' N. long. 90° 35' E. The town contains 
only 150 huts and a few shops, but greatly surpasses any other collection of 
habitations, there being no place in the vicinity that deserves the name of 
town, or even village. Bamboos and timber are procured in great plenty from 
toe neighbouring forests. Near the village of Tokor there is a remarkable hill, 
consisting of a vast mass of granite, much rent, from the crevices of which 
flne trees spring up. At the beautiful lakes named Toborong, north of 
Jugighopa, there is a considerable fishery, where about 1,400 maunds (SOlbs. 
each) of fish are annually procured and dried for sale, of which the Bijfiee 
Rlya takes half as his due. To restrain the neighbouring wild and more than 
•eml-batbarous tribes, a small military detachment under an European officer 
is nsoally stationed here. — ( F. Buchanan, 

HEAtPAEa (Machpara),—A segment of the Rungpoot district, extendmg 
rile sonth side of the Brahmaputra river, about the 26th degree of north 
laritnde. The Mecb tribe, whom the tract derives its name, appears to 



214 the province [principality Of 

have been once more numerous than they are at present, and to have under* 
gone great changes, at' least in this territory they We wholly disappeared, and 
are supposed to have assumed the more elevated title of Rajbungsies. A few 
families of Mech, who, according to Brahminical ideas, continue to wallow in 
the mire of impurity, frequent the borders of the Rungpoor district, towards the 
frontier of Bootan and Nepaul, but the tribe forms a chief part of the popula>| 
tion in all the tract of country between Cooch Bahar and the mountains a 
especially near Dellamcotta and Luckidwar. In 1809, Mechpara still contained^ 
about 300 Garrow families ; this tribe having been greatly encroached on by \ 
the inhabitants of tke plains, and pushed off among the mountains. The coir \ 
pensation to be granted to the proprietor of the pergunnah for the abolition of 
the sayer, or variable imposts, in 1812, was 677 rupees, on a jumma, or assess- 
ment of 2,651 rupees, leaving a future annual land-tax, payable to government by 
the zemindar, of only 1,974 rupees. — (F. Buchanan, Public MS. documents, 8gc.) 

THE PRINCIPALITY OF COOCH BAHAR (Cuch Vihar). 

This western division of the ancient kingdom of Camroop, comprehended 
the whole northern tracts Vrom the Chonkosh river to the Mahananda, and 
from Goraghaut to the mountains of Bootan, extending in length about 90 
miles from N. W. to S. E., and 60 miles from N. E. to S. W. The modem 
territory of Cooch Bahar forms the boundary of a large portion of the Rungpoor 
district, and is partitioned into sections and divisions in a very confused manner 
The following are the names of the principal : 

Chucklali Futtehpoor; the pergunnalis of Pangga, Bishgiri, Patgong and 
Tapa, Bashoti, Kankiya, Harjyerhat; Chucklah Parbobhag, Boda, and Bat- 
trishazary or Bykantpoor. That portion of the possessions of the Raja of 
Cooch Bahar, situated beyond the limits of the province of Bengal, is com* 
monly known by the name of Tannah Bahar. The northern eartremity of Ais 
territory was settled on Siva Singh, of a family from which Ae Rajas were 
obliged to choose their prime ministers. This portion, as producing an income 
of 32,000 mpecs per annum, was called Battrishazaiy, but Ae general name 
given to the whole principality was Bahar, and to distinguish it from the large 
province of which Patna is the capital, the term Cooch has been added, although 
particularly disagreeable to its princes, who having in modem times set up for 
Rajbungsies, wish to sink all remembrance of the Cooch tribe. The nature of 
the country is entirely the same with that of Ae adjacent parts td Ae British 
dominions, and the management of the Raias esAtes beyond Ai frontier, 
entirely resembles that pursued in Ae estates which betong to Ai ti s 
zemindar of Bengal. The commerce between Ae tiro t^toriM m At. « 



coocB BAHAB.] OF BENGAL. 215 

good footing, there being no restraint whatever; but opium is cultivated to so 
large an extent that it evidently is intended for contraband purposes. The 
southern portion of Cooch Bahar lying along the river Durlah, is a highly 
improved and fertile country ; but to the north of the town of Bahar, the country 
has a most miserable appearance, the land being low and marshy, interspersed 
with thick jungle and many nullahs. The vegetation is coarse, and the ground 
everywhere almost choaked up with rank grass, reeds, and ferns. In 1784, the 
total territorial area was calculated at 1,302 square miles. 

Bykantpoor to Battrishazary, although a part has been alienated to Bootan, 
is still a very fine estate, and contains two whole police divisions of Fakeer- 
gunge and Sanyasigotta, and has been added to Bengal since the acquisition of 
the Dewanny in 1765. The proprietors assert that they are descended from the 
god Siva, on which account the members of the family assume the title of 
Deb, and return no salute made to them by whatever rank. The Cooch tribe 
still compose by far the greater portion of the original inhabitants of Camroop, 
and one class of that tribe, the Pani cooch, which has not adopted the Brah* 
minical religion, still preserv'es a language which is totally different from the 
Bengalese. By the latter they are often confounded with the Garrows. The 
early priestnood of the Cooch tribe were named Kolitas, who maintained great 
influence over their rude flocks, until the introduction of the Brahmins, who 
were adopted as sacred instructors by the principal chiefs, since which period 
the Kolitas have mostly adopted the Hindoo religion, and rank as pure Sudras ; 
yet both they and their chiefs occasionally revert to their old tenets, and 
return to the guidance of the unconverted members of the ancient priesthood. 
The converted Kolitas adhere to Krishna, and have of late been very successful, 
especially in Assam, where they have not only converted the sovereigns of the 
country, but also many ignorant tribes of Rabkas, Garrows, and Mech. The 
lower classes in the north are so extremely indigent, that some years e^o it 
was their custom to dispose of their children for slaves without scruple, and 
Although this traffic has been suppressed, and provisions are cheap compared 
with other districts, yet the poverty and wretchedness of a great proportion of 
the population are extreme. 

When the Mahommedans conquered this division they appear to have 
^^udeied the office of zemindar hereditary. Some of the estates continue to 
he managed by the Raja, some by branches of the family, while others con- 
tinue to be held by the descendants of different officers, on condition Of the 
of certain duties. In the whole of Cooch Bahar the maximum of 
root jfiind by the settlement is much higher than what the proprietors exact 
Mr tenants, which arises partly fiom their desire of keeping a kw 



THE PROVINCE 


216' 


[pBIKCIPAXilTT or 


rental, lest a new assessment should be made, whUe they trust for their 
profit to private contributions. The high rate of the maximum strengthent 
their hands, as they can at any time compel a tenant to quit his farm, or pay 
the maximum, no leases being granted except to new settlers, and these only 
give the tenant a right of perpetual possession according to the regulated 
assessment. Formerly the Raja’s family resided at Bykantpoor, where there 
was little cultivation, scattered among the woods, while all the more southerly 
part of the district was overgrown with reeds and bushes, encouraged as a 
defence against the Mahommedans. On the decay of the Mogul power, 
Dharma Pal left Bykantpoor and settled at Jelpigory, and began to clear the 
woods of the south, which are now cultivated, while the spots among the 
woods which were formerly cultivated are now neglected, and returning to a 
state of nature. The rents are very low, probably owing to the vicinity of the 
Bootan and Nepaulese territories, where there is much waste land, and a large 
proportion of the tenants are constantly changing from the one to the other. 
Among the rude tribes the hoe cultivation, which is a marked distinction, still 
subsists, and with this implement it is supposed a man and his wife can cul* 
tivate as much land, ^ as a man with a plough and two oxen, ibeing about 
five acres. 

The reigning prince, named Hmindra, is said to be the 17th in succession of 
the present family, but the early history of the country is much involved in 
fable. In 1582, Abul Fazel describes the chief of Gooch as a powerful sove> 
reign, having Camroop and Assam under his subjection, and able to bring into 
the field 1000 horse and 100,000 foot. According to the testimony of Mahom^ 
medan historians, during the reign of Acber, about A. D. 1595, Lukshmen 
Narrain, the Raja of Gooch Bahar was the sovereign of a territory bounded 
on the east by the river Brahmaputra, on the south by Goraghaut, on the west 
by Tirhoot, and on the north by the mountains of Tibet and Assam. His anny 
they exaggerated to the number of 100,000 infantry, 4000 cavalry, 700 ele- 
phants, and 1000 war boats. Notwithstanding this enormous mditary force, 
he voluntarily became a vassal to the Emperor Acber, which offending his 
subjects and chief men, they rebelled against him, and compelled him to 
request assistance from the Mogul Governor of Bengal, which was readily 
^nted, as it afforded an opportunity of exploring this i^on, with a viwt to 
its future subjugation. This happened in 1661, when it was otmqnmed by 
Meet Jumla, who, in compliment to his sovereign, changed the iff ha 
capit^ to Alumgeemuggur, which it did not long retain. Mahommedan 
toticUm twiag On in its pnfectioii, he deetnjwd the ffindoo ten^ 
btoke m pwce. , eeletaMed iiu(e ef (ViehoB). nd ammtmH «e eo» 



COOCH BAHAR.] OF BENGAL. 217 

of the Raja, who was on bad terms with his father. In every other respect he 
administered strict justice to his new subjects, and severely punished plunderers 
and other offenders. Having completed the conquest, and settled the tribute 
of Cooch Bahar (which then comprehended a large tract of country) at ten lacks 
of rupees annually, he proceeded to attempt the conquest of Assam, where he 
foiled. During these wars the Cooch princes are supposed to have erected 
the line of fortification along the southern frontier, which still remains ; but, like 
all similar structures, it proved an ineffectual protection. 

Along with the rest of Bengal this district devolved to the East India Com* 
pany in 1765, but was little noticed until 1772, when the Cooch Raja applied 
to the collector of Rungpoor for assistance against the Bootanners, who had 
reduced him to the last extremity, and offered, through his minister Nazir 
Deo, to pay an annual tribute of half his revenue, and to render his country 
again subordinate to Bengal. In deliberating on this offer, the peace and 
security of the adjacent British territories were more to be considered, than any 
pecuniary advantage to be derived from the new acquisition, as prior to this 
period the Rungpoor district had been much exposed to incursions from Bootan. 
It became therefore a matter of direct interest to embrace any opportunity that 
offered of expelling these marauders, and confining them within the limits of 
their own mountains. Under this impression the proposals of Nazir Deo were 
agreed to, and Captain John Jones was ordered to proceed with 4 companies 
of sepoys and 2 pieces of cannon, which expedition he conducted with much 
skill, defeating Dorpo Deb a rebel and emissary of Bootan, and capturing the 
town of Bahar by assault, thereby greatly intimidating the Bootanners, who 
fled on all sides to the hills, where Captain Jones followed them in 1773, and took 
the fortress of Dellamcotta ; on which event the Bootan Raja, alarmed for his 
own safety, applied to the.Teshoo Lama of Tibet, and obtained a peace through 
his me^ation. In arranging the conditions great favour was shewn to the 
Bootanners, probably with the view of gaming their friendship, and obtaining 
commercial advanmges, which were never realized. 

In 1787, great confusion and rebellion agitated this petty state, which led the 
B ung ^l government to institute an inquiry into the causes of these commotions, 
and also relative to the existing condition of the territory. A commissioner was 
in ooniequence deputed in 1789, to take upon himself the mtclusive superin* 
tendittce of the Raja’s estates, to collect the revenues, pay the annual tribute, 
and after defiraying the current expenditure, retain the surplus for the Rajas 
bmeflt* The latter, then a minor, was at the same time informed, t^t the 
Britiah goveniment. in assuming the temporary management of h» aifoua. did 
net imeiid either to increase his tribute, or to ^ ^ ^ righto and pri- 

♦01. » t 



THE PROVINCE 


m 


tPRINCXPAUTT or 


vileges guaranteed by the treaty of 1772, the objects of their interference being 
to preserve himself and country from the artifices and peculations of ignorant 
and designing men. On due consideration of the wretched condition of the 
country, the incapacity of the Ranny mother, and the universal corruption of her 
dependants, the interposition of the superior government became absolutely 
necessary to restore good order, standing as the Raja did in the relation of a 
feudatory ; and as a limited interference would have rendered the deputation of 
no avail, it was determined to vest the commissioner with full powers, and he 
was also particularly instructed to attend to the education of the young Raja, 
with the view of qualifying him for the management of his own afiairs. Under 
this arrangement the Cooch Bahar territories continued until 1801, when the 
Riga having attained his majority, the office of commissioner was abolished, and 
the transaction of revenue matters committed to the collector of Rungpoor. 
During the above period of time strict tranquillity prevailed, the revenues were 
collected with regularity, and the property of the state so effectually preserved 
from the rapacity of its own servants, that after defraying the public expenses 
on the most liberal scale, a large sum was accumulated, and, for the benefit of the 
Raja, invested at interest in the Bengal funds. 

A very different picture was exhibited when the commissioner was withdrawn. 
During the Raja’s minority, the government had entertained hopes, that by study 
and application to business he would have qualified himself for executing the 
duties of so important a charge ; but these expectations were disappointed, for 
to a natural or acquired imbecility, the Raja added a most violent and out- 
rageous temper, where he could not be resisted, nor did he ever allow the 
miseries his subjects suffered to interfere with or disturb the low and chijllish 
pleasures to which he was addicted. Had the mischief been confined to the 
Raja’s own territories, a cold and unfeeling policy might perhaps have suggested, 
that it was not incumbent on the British government to interpose in the affairs 
of a state which had been recognized to a certain degree as independent. The 
effects, however, of the above evils were felt within the limits of the Britiah 
districts, banditti and other disturbers of the public peace frequently committing 
robbery and other outrages, and then seeking a secure asylum for tlmmsdves .and 
plunder, within the boundaries of Cooch Bahar. Besides this, so fer firma any 
surplus revenue being realized, it was with the utmost difficulty the diffisrent 
instalments of the tribute due to Bengal could be liquidated; and while he Riga 
had scarcely the means of subsistence, his revenue and public c^Bcers were 
amassing fortunes by embezzlement and extortion. ' 

The Bengal government was fuUy sensible of the evils which w^ filce to arfe% 
»om leaving the administration of affiurs exclusively to the Raje; but TO tverae, 



coocB BAHAE.] OF BENGAL. 219 

on the principles of good finth» to nssume the internal management of Gooch 
Bahar without the acquiescooMse of the Raja. Under these circumstances an 
officer was deputed for the purpose of communicating with the Raja, and of 
endeavouring to obtain his consent to the introduction of the Bengal revenue and 
judicial reg^ations, with such modifications as local circumstances and the ranh 
of the Raja might suggest ; but all his efforts to procure the Raja’s consent to 
the change were without avail, and he was in consequence withdrawn. Another 
was deputed in 1 805, with the like bad success, the Raja manifesting the utmost 
repugnance to the proposed arrangements, while his miserable subjects upbraided 
the Brirish government as partners in his oppressions. All interference, however, 
further than remonstrance, was abstained from, until 1813, when the anarchy of 
this state had attained such a height, that it was no longer possible to go on. As 
experience had proved, that all prospect of reforming the administration of the 
Raja through the medium of the collector of Rungpoor was entirely hopeless, it 
became indispensably necessary to recreate the office of commissioner, nearly on 
the footing of 1 805. The Governor-General also addressed the Raja, remonstrating 
strongly with him on the neglect of his public duties, and of his insulting and 
contumacious conduct towards the officers appointed to negociate with him. In 
addition to these acts of insubordination, the Raja had the folly to withhold pay- 
ment of the customary tribute, and not only to misappropriate the allowance 
fixed for the family of Nazir Deo, but also to usurp the lands allotted for their 
residence, and for that of Dewan Deo. In these commotions one of the latter’s 
dependants was murdered, when the Raja, instead of facilitating the apprehension 
of the perpetrators, opposed every obstacle to the prosecution of the inquiry. 

Whatever doubts may exist, regarding the rights mutually understood by the 
contracting parties, to have been conveyed to the British government by the 
words of the third article of the treaty of 1772, as far as relates to the Raja’s 
independence within the limits of internal jurisdiction, the general tenour of that 
treaty placed Gooch Bahar in a state of absolute dependence on the British 
power, and the reservation of the moiety of the revenues for the Raja was sub- 
jected to the condition of his continuing firm in his alle^ance to the East India 
Company. The Raja’s general conduct having been utterly inconsistent with 
the duties of subjection and allegiance, he might be considered as having violated 
ei^;agements, and consequently forfeited his rights of territorial sovereignty 
ffisregarding the conditions under which they were recognized. But as it 
would have been too severe to carry the puniriiment to extremity, it was 
determined to limit the interference in the interior administration merely to the 
dagree whidt nt^t be necessary to preclude the recurrence of any acts of gross 
dntrage or t^^jwessioA. In furtherance of this object, he was ordered to dismiss 

V r a 



220 the province [district of 

his Dewan and Moonshee, the appointment in future of the first mentioned 
officer being subjected to the approval of the Oovemor-General. To the proposal 
for the introduction of a system of criminal jurisprudence to be administered in 
his name through the agency of the commissioner, the Raja gave a conditional 
assent, and the requests he made in consequence were deemed free from 
objection. The amount of tribute paid to the Bengal government in 1814 was 
02,722 rupees.-^i^. Buchanan, Public MS. Documents, Turner, J. Grant, Stewart, 
Pkrard, 8gc. Sgc.) 

Bevhar (Vihar ). — The modem residence of the Cooch Baliar Rajas. 
Lat. 26® 18' N. long. 89° 22' E. 32 miles N. from Rungpoor. 

THE DISTRICT OF DINAGEPOOR (DinaJpurJ. 

The district of Dinagepoor is situated principally between the 25th and 26tb 
degrees of north latitude. On the north it is bounded by Rungpoor and Puraeah; 
on the south by Rajshahy and Mymunsingh ; to the east it has Rungpoor and 
Mymunsingh; and to the west Purneah and Boglipoor. Its greatest length 
from the southern extremity to the northern is 105 miles, and its greatest breadth 
82 miles ; having a triangular form with the acute angle to the north. This 
district was formerly named Circar Pinjerah ; and, according to Major Rennell’s 
measurement in 1784, contained 3,519 square miles; but the present district is 
much more extensive, and when surveyed in 1808, by Dr. Francis Buchanan, 
contained about 5,374 square miles, distributed nearly in the following pro- 
portions, viz. — 


Rivers, tanks, marshes, and water courses, &c. 

. 35a 

Inundated in the rainy season 

. 381 

Red clay 

. 38 

Light coloured clay 

. 2,441 

Free soil ...... 

, . a,iei 


Total 5,374 


The western boundary is well defined, being separated from the division of 
Purneah by the rivers Nagar and Mahananda, to the junctitm of the latter widi 
the Punabhoba ; but its boundary on the south towards Rajshahy is complicated 
and uncertain. On the east Dinagepoor is separated from Rungpoor by a river 
usurily called the Caratty or Korotoya; but to the north its limits are less 
distinctly marked, although tolerably straight. During the govemmentt 
Dinagepoor, along with Edracpoor, constituted the territorial jurisdictitm of 
Aurangabad, and was originally a firontier towards the independent plrincipility 
of Cooch Bahar, on which account it was UtOe known end l^htly enesaed. 



OF BENGAL. 


DIHAOEPOOB.] 


m 


Din^iepoor is everywhere intersected by rivers, which during the rainy season 
admit of lai^ boats to every division, and of -small ones to most villages; but 
owing to the changes that have taken place since Major Rennell’s survey, their 
actual channels are but ill represented in his maps. The names of the principal 
rivers are ; — 

The Mahananda The Tanggon The Teesta 
Punabhoba Janiuna Gabura, and 

Atreyi Korotoya Dhepa. 

There are no lakes, properly so called, although during the rainy season some 
of the rivers swell out so as to resemble very large ones. The deserted channels 
of considerable rivers also contain large quantities of stagnant -water, always in 
the rainy season, and sometimes even during the parching heats of spring, and 
have a resemblance to lakes ; added to which there are many permanent marshes, 
ana a multitude of unnecessary tanks choked up with noxious plants and rank 
vegetation. 

The rainy season usually begins about the 12th of June, is accompanied with 
much thunder and ends nearly about the 14th of October. The rain most com- 
monly comes from the east ; but towards the end of the wet monsoon, there are 
frequently light southerly winds, which increase tlie heat, and the nights become 
very suffocating. In favourable seasons there ought to be one or two days of 
heavy min, between the middle of October and middle of December, and if 
these fiul, the crop of rice is scanty. From the 12th of March to the 12th of 
May, there are usually strong winds from the west, attended by thunder, rain, 
and frequently hail of an enormous size, resembling round lumps of ice. The 
westerly winds usually blow cool, pleasant, and dry, with a clear sky from the 
middle of February to the middle of March, which is undoubtedly the finest 
lime of the year. During November, December, January, and February, the 
cold is at times troublesome, and the Europeans have fire in their chambers, and 
wear woollen garments. But the natives, who are not so well provided, lament 
and shiver all night, and in the morning continue helpless and benumbed, both 
in body and mind, until reinvigorated by the rays of the sun. 

The soil of this district is considerably diversified, and the face of the country 
of a -wavii^g appearance, being divided into small vallies, each two or three miles 
broad. T^eee vallies are watered by small rivers, which in the rainy season 
swell into large lakes 50 or 60 miles in length, and two or three in breadth, over- 
flowing all the low lands, which are dry in the cold season. These vallies, at the 
distance of 50 or 60 miles firom the Ganges, are scarcely higher than the surface 
of its waters ; when, therefore, the river is swollen by periodical rains, the 
of tha viUies tie not mdy prevented from running off, hut are so muck 



222 THE PROVINCE [district or 

increased, as to be navigable for vessels of considerable burthen. The soil of 
the elevated portions of land is in general a stiff clay ; in some places black and 
porous, in others white and tenacious. The soil of some of the vallies resem- 
bles that of the elevated parts, and that of the others is rich and loamy, with a 
substratum of the same kind of clay which forms the higher grounds. These, 
low lands are for the most part covered with long grass of different sorts, and! 
afford pasture to a great many buffaloes, and large herds of other cattle ; the\ 
northern parts of the district are more level than the southern ones, have a loamy \ 
soil and are well cultivated. Although there is no elevation in the whole district 
that approaches to a mountain, yet the face of the country is not so level as in 
many other divisions of the Bengal province. Some portions rise to a consider- 
able height, especially a long ridge extending north from the town of Din^;epoor 
to Contanagur, and also a considerable elevation north east of Nullagola; both 
of which are probably 100 feet above the level of the inundated country. 

The higher lands in the south of the district are inhabited by Mahommedans, 
and the lower by Hindoos. On the higher lands very little besides rice is pro 
duced, and except in very small spots, which are well manured, only one crop m 
the year. The loamy vallies which do not lie so low as to be endanifered by the 
inundation, produce not only rice, but also a good crop of mustard or pulse, in 
the cold season. All the coarse kinds of rice, and all the winter rice diat is to 
be exported, is cleaned by boiling. A quantity is put into a pot with some cold 
water and boiled for an hour, after which it is dried and beaten; and the facility 
with which this is done, and the little waste in cleaning, more than compensate 
for the expense of fuel ; but it is not lawful for a Brahmin to use this kind of 
rice. The inhabitants of Dinagepoor are in general extremely indigent, and 
their farming implements are therefore proportionally simple and miserable. 
The plough is of a wretched description, and has neither coulter to cut the soil, 
nor mould-board to turn it over ; only one person attends it, holding the handle 
in one hand, and occasionally pulling the U^s of the oxen with the other. A 
pair of these sacred and unhappy creatures may be purchased for six or eight 
rupees, a plough for U. Zd. sterling, and a yoke for 7d. In the dry smuKm it hi 
often necessary to water the fields, which is done with a sort of trough 12 or 16‘ 
feet long. The natives have no spade, and the hoc is so constructed as to admit 
of their sitting while at work. Rice is the staple commodity of the country, of 
which four kinds, including several varieties, are principally cultivated. 

The next article of importance is indigo, for which many parts of die division 
Me improper, as it will not grow in the white clay lands, is sparingly firoduced 
in the black and red clays, and as most of the soft and loamy parts Ite so low 
as to be subject to sudden inundations, which would destroy the crop* In I80h» 



OF BENGAL. 


PIKAOXPOOm.] 


^3 


the extent of lend under the indigo weed was about 15,000 Calcutta begahs, 
allowing 700 for eadi set of works, of which there were twenty-one. The value 
of the plant produced at 21 rupees per begah was about 37,500 rupees; Either 
too much or too little sun, and either too much or too little rain, will entirely 
ruin the crop. Sugar is also raised but not in large quantities. A begah or \ of 
an acre of good land is reckoned to produce 13,891 lbs. of cane, or 1,159 lbs. of 
pot extract,* and of cake extract 962 lbs. Many sorts of fibrous plants for 
cordage and sackcloth are sown in April, May, and June ; the phaseolus mungo, 
and mustard seed, are also raised. Hemp is principally cultivated on account of 
its buds, which are used by the natives for the purposes of intoxication. Flax, 
although abundantly cultivated in the central parts of Bengal, for its use in 
making oil, is but little cultivated in Dinagepoor, where the natives make no use » 
of it for the purposes of thread. The kind of wheat raised in this quarter of 
the province is bad, and the flower produced of so dark a colour, that it is little 
saleable to Europeans. Several sorts of pulse are sown at the commencement 
of the cold season, such as kesari (lathyrus sativa), the mashuri (ervum lens), 
and the boot (cicer arietinum). Tobacco is cultivated to a considerable extent 
in low and loamy lands. 

The breed of oxen here is extremely degenerate, and not only many of the 
Mahommedans, but even many low tribes of Hindoos, use the cow in the plough, 
which according to the strict usi^s of Brahminical nations ought to be punished 
with death. Notwithstanding the prevailing numbers of the followers of the 
Arabian prophet in this district, tame swine are more numerous than sheep, and 
me eaten by the lower classes of Hindoos. The breed of horses, or rather 
ponira, is of the most wretched description, but their cost is moderate, being only 
from As. 6d. to I U. Qd. each. Slaves are very few, and were mostly purchased 
during Bie great famine of 1769, and the scarcity of 1787, to keep them from 
starving; but they turned out so idle and careless, that their labour was found 
much more expensive than that of hired labourers. The elephant and rhinoceros 
can scarcely be said to be known, and tigers are comparatively not numerous ; 
but large flocks of wild buffaloes and hogs infest the fields, and prove extremely 
destructive tp flie former. Six weeks after the rainy season commences every 
rice fidd, *bWgh quite dry and hard in the spring, abounds with small fishes. 
Whose appearance is so sudden, that the natives assert they have fallen from the 
clouds along with the Tain. 

The bamboo is the most common and useful woody plant, and it is with this 
tubstanee tb** the Dinagepoor mats, so celebrated all over Bengal for the supe- 
riority trf the material, are fobricated. In most other parts they are made of 
The and cleaning of cotton is performed by the women, and the 



224 THE PROVINCE [district of 

% 

preparation of cotton thread occupies the leisure hours of all the females of the 
higher ranks (even Brahminies) and of the greater part of the farmers’ wives ; 
but the raw material is mostly imported. The women free the cotton from the 
seed with the common handmill, then beat it with the bow, and afterwards spin 
it with a small miserable wheel turned with the hand. Sackcloth is also a con> 
siderable manufacture, much worn by the lower classes, and also used for ricej 
and sugar bags. Most of the Bengal salt comes from Narraingunge, and the 
Coromandel salt from Calcutta ; both greatly adulterated. Although some na* 
tive houses trade in this country to a great extent, the East India Company 
must still be considered as the chief merchants, and much eagerness is evinced 
by the natives to deal with their agents. Many small merchants, with capitals 
of from 2000 to 25,000 rupees, reside in this district, and export rice, sugar, 
molasses, extract of sugar cane, oil, tobacco ; and import salt, cocoa nuts, the 
metals and spices. Another class of small merchants, who mostly profess to have 
dedicated themselves entirely to religion, and who are called Gosains, purchase 
large quantities of silk and cotton cloths, and import chintzes, carpets, and 
Patna blankets. The following are the names of the principal towns : — 

Houses. Houses. 


Dinagepoor, containing about 

6000 

Bhusi 

260 

Malda 

3000 

Chintamon 

200 

Gour 

3000 

Ayigar 

200 

Raygunge 

1000 

Ghuggudanga 

190 

Ghoraghaut . 

600 

Soukol 

160 

Sibgunge 

300 




From a consideration of the agriculture of this district, it appeared to Dr. 
Francis Buchanan that 480,000 ploughs were required, and one man is the usual 
allowance to each plough. The men employed, therefore, in actual agriculture 
cannot be less than 480,000, which multiplied by five, would give 2,400,000, to 
which may be added one fourth of the number for all the other classes of society, 
making 3,000,000 of persons for the total population, or about 668 persons to 
the square mile. An estimate formed from the quantity of produce would give 
a still greater number. With all this enormous population, there is much waste 
land, and a general complaint of the scarcity of workmen. There are scarcely 
any emigrations, and early marriages universal, yet the inhabitants are a weakly 
puny race, and far from having numerous families. The grand check hiae to 
excess of population is disease, more from the want of a ttiaaulating diet and 

comfortable dwellings and clothing, than from any settled malignito die 
climate. 

In most parts of the district, the leases granted to are e(|iiiTideBt to a 



DIKAOEPOOB.] OF BENGAL. 225 

perpetuity; but this does not appear practically either to have bettered the 
condition of the peasant> as compared with other districts, or to have improved the 
cultivation of the soil ; and, what is remarkable, notwithstanding their right of 
perpetuity, they are constantly migrating from one estate to another. The greater 
part of the landlords are new men, who have recently purchased their estates, and 
who vrere formerly either merchants, manufacturers, agents of landholders, or 
native officers of government. The old zemindars are either sunk in miserable 
superstition, the prey of religious mendicants, or are totally abandoned to sottish 
and stupifying dissipation. The evils resulting from the endless subdivisions of 
estates are also severely felt here. In 1801, the collector was of opinion, that the 
cultivation of the district since the decennial settlement had greatly increased, 
and that the rent-free tracts were the best cultivated. The zemindar’s profit he 
estimated at 20 per cent, on the amount of the jumma or land assessment to 
the revenue, which in 1814 was 1,706,373 rupees, and the abkarry or excise on 
spirituous liquors, 10,117 rupees. Contrary to what is seen in most parts of 
Hindostan, the Mahommedans are here the prevalent sect, being estimated by 
Dr. Francis Buchanan at 7 to 3 Hindoos ; who, he is inclined to think, were at one 
time almost entirely extirpated ; most of the existing ones being the offspring of 
dew comers. In 1808, the following was nearly the respective proportions : 


Mahommedans 2,100,000 

Hindoos 900,000 

3,000,000 

Of the Hindoo population, 440,000 are of Bengalese origin, viz. 

Pure tribes 70,000 

Impure tribes 370,000 

Total 440,000 

Vetf low castes (bdow unpure) 150,000 

Abominable . - - 210,000 

Total 360,000 


Up to 1808, Christianity had made but very little progress in this district, 
nor are there any native Portugueze. 

Eter since the cession of this district along with the rest of the province m 
nes, it has been greatly infested by dacoits or gang robbers, partly owing to 
^te numefous rivers by which it is intersected, and partly to the dastardly spirit 
nhieh tile have long been noted. In 1814, however, a consider- 

•hfehtt^mmeut tiKik place, in consequence of the pains taken by 



THE PROVINCE 


^6 


[distbict of 


to ensure the co-operation of the landholders, and to impress the inhabitants with 
a sense of their ability to resist the atrocious acts of these depredators. In the 
first half year, the whole of the offenders in five cases of gang robbery were 
brought to justice ; and it appeared in several instances, that the robbers had 
been resisted and even seized in the fact by the villagers ; on which occaaitm 
they were liberally and publicly rewarded. Two instances of gang robbery, at- 
tended with murder and torture, occurred in 1814, but these were perpetrated 
by large gangs composed of Keechuks, Nepaulese, and inhabitants of Bootan. 
Some reform, in another respect, appears wanting ; as, according to Mr. Sisson, 
the main road trom Dinagepoor to Moorshedabad, which at one time was thickly 
set with villages, has been entirely deserted by the inhabitants, through fear of 
the sepoys passing to and from that city. In 1814, a night watch was also 
established in the different villages of the district, planned and introduced by 
"Mr. Sisson, composed of the villagers, who took it by turns, which operated 
with considerable effect in reducing the number of gang robberies and buig- 
laries. But, notwithstanding these advantages, it was found experimentally to 
be a great hardship on the labouring classes, especially in small villages, where 
the turn of watching occurred too often; besides which, subsequent to the 
seizure of any criminal, they were called on for evidence, and compelled to quit 
their homes and occupations without recompense ; which annoyances occurred 
exactly in proportion to their activity and vigilance as watchmen. During the 
years 1813 and 1814, the periodical rains failed, and with them the rice crops, 
creating a scarcity nearly amounting to a famine, and thereby compelling the 
poorer classes to commit burglaries for the purpose of obtaining a small pittance 
of food. — (F. Buchanan, Carey, Oswald, C. Smith, J. Shakespear, 

Dixagepoor. — ^The capital of the preceding district, situated in lat. 26*37' N. 
long. 88* 43' £. 102 miles N. N. E. from Moorshedabad. This town consists of 
four portions ; viz. Dinagepoor Proper, Rajgunge, Kangchon Ghaut, and Pahar^ 
poor. The houses, or rather dwellings, for many contain ten huts, are estimated 
at about 6000, and the total population of all descriptions, about 30.000. The 
roads are kept in excellent repair by the convicts, and the town, externally, has 
a clean and neat appearance ; but it is badly supplied witk water, nor does it 
contain any public building of the slightest consideration^ The rajah's house 
was of great size, but has gone to ruin since the decay of the family ; it was 
built in wd exhibits a strange mixture of European, Moorish, and Tfindf** 
styles, all m the worst taste, nor is much better displayed in the arofaltectlaie of 

^ European portion of the inhabitaiits.-<F. |l^v 

Bv©Ei.n.-~A town ^ although mmmm 



DXNAOEPOOR.] OF BENGAL. 227 

district of Dinagepoor, yet was fomeriy under the jurisddction of that of Pur- 
neah. Lat. 25* 32' N. loner. 88* 10' £. 95 miles N. from Moorshedabad. 

Raygumge. — ^This is the most considerable mart in the district of Dinagepoor, 
although it has arisen since 1780. The streets are narrow^ dirty, and confused, 
but it is a place of great bustle, and crowded with boatmen and drivers of oxen, 
of which last the inhabitants allege 5000 loaded arrive daily. In 1808, it c<m> 
tained 300 dwellings and about 700 huts . — ( F. Buchanan, S^c.) 

CoNTANAGUR (Cahtanogara). — ^This was formerly a town of some note, as is 
indicated by the remains of mounds and ramparts still to be seen, but it is at 
present only remarkable as containing one of the finest Hindoo temples extant 
in Bengal, where most of these edifices are of a very inferior construction. Lat. 
25® 44' N. long. 88® 43' E. 1 12 miles N. by E. from Moorshedabad. 

Bhowannipoor. — A town, or rather market place, in the district of Dinage- 
poor. situated in the division of Ranny Sonkol. At the festival of Nekmurdun 
(a Mahommedan saint), a great meeting is held here, from about the 7th to the 
17th of April. A military guard and civil officers attend to preserve peace; for 
the multitude is great, and consists mostly of rogues, thieves, prostitutes, mu- 
sicians, jugglers, showmen, and religious mendicants ; to whom may be added 
idlers, pilgrims, and traders from Bootan, Nepaul, Pumeah, Benares, Patim, 
Moorshedabad, Rungpoor, and various other places. About 3000 ponies, partly 
from Bootan, and partly from the west country, and from one to 2000 carriage 
oxen, are usually sold at this fair, where there is also exposed for sale almost 
every kind of commodity, especially those of a more valuable description, such 
as broad cloth, silks, fine muslins, shawls, hardware, trinkets, spices, musk, 
Tibet cow tails, and gold dust. It is said that the business done amounts to 
between three and four lacks of rupees, and that about 100.000 persons attend. 
— (F. Buchanan, 8^c.) 

Guoraghaut. — K town and zemindary in the district of Dinagepoor, 90 
miles N. E. of Moorshedabad, lat. 25® 13' N. long. 89® 10' E. This small ter- 
ritory is also named idraepoor, and anciently formed part of the division of 
Aurungabad. In 1784, it contained 632 square miles, and was held by a 
of the khayst caste of Hindoos. In 1582, Abul Fazel describes it as 
produmng raw silk, gunnies (sackcloth), and plenty of Tanyan horses. This 
zemindary, with many others in the eastern quarter of Bengal, at a very early 
period of the conquest, was bestowed on ffiefiterent Afghan chiefs, who colonised 
in tbe m and received accessions of their countrymen from abroad. B ein g 
natlotui .wmverters of the Hindoos in their nmghbourhood, and not very acm- 
fKdfme 4 ii to the means, a very considerable proportion of the u^lntanta 
^ lemote eomer to tins day pndiMi die Bfshommedaa rdigioB* aad 

/oa2 



228 ' THE PROVINCE [district o» 

dignify themselves with the Arabian title of Sheikh. In process of time the 
Ghoraghaut zemindary was seized on by the Kakeshelan tribe of Moguls ; but 
for many years past it has reverted to its prior owners, the Hindoos. From 
the traces of ruins still visible, the town of Ghoraghaut appears at one period 
to have covered a great space, but it is now almost restored to the state in 
which it probably existed before the Mussulmaun conquest, being sunk in 
woods and jungles, with tigers prowling about the streets. It is still, however, 
a native town of some note, and contains about 500 families, who carry on a 
good deal of trade. The most remarkable monument is the tomb of Ismail 
Ghazi Khan, (a holy man, and good officer, who first subdued this tract ojf 
country), which is much feared and respected both by Hindoos and Mahom- 
medans, and, although nearly ruinous, has still a small canopy hung over it. 
All the other public buildings and mosques have long gone to ruin. — C F. Bu~ 
chanau, J. Grant, Stewart, Sgc,) 

Malda (Malada). — This is the second town in the Dinagepoor district, and 
independent of Nawabgunge, which may be considered as a suburb occupied by 
boatmen, contains about 3000 houses, of which seven-eighths are built with 
brick and stones from the ruins of Gour. The town is miserably huddled 
together along the side of the Mahananda, and during the rainy season is 
nearly insulated, owing to which the streets are remarkably narrow, seldom 
exceeding six feet in breadth. The improvements made in Europe in thwarts 
of dying and weaving, have greatly injured the trade of this place, where 
many of the largest houses have become ruinous, among which number are the 
French and Dutch factories ; and the whole country for 12 miles to the north 
of the town is a desert, although possessing an excellent soil. This place stands 
on a river which communicates with the Ganges, from which the towri is not ffir 
distant, and has long been famous for its manufactures of silk and cotton. The 
Malda mangoes have also a high reputation, and may be considered as one of 
the finest fruits in the world, but few of these actually grow at Malda, all 
the plantations of the most valuable kind being on the opposite side of the 
Mahananda, in the PumeaJi district. In some parts of the Dinagepoor district 
the produce is of little value, for a large portion of the mangoes, when allowed 
to ripen on the tree, contain an insect (curculio) that renders them useless. The 
natives usually attribute an abundance of the insect to the soil or climate ; but 
it is probably the quality of the fruit, it being remarked that some trees alTmys 
escape in the worst districts ; but on this subject great uncertainty preraihk 
(F. Buchanan, 

Gour fGaurj.— The ruins of Gour (the name of the andent ea^^itd df 
Bengal, and at one period of the province,) are sitiu^ m the diirtricl of 



DiNACEPOOR.] OF BENGAL. QQQ 

poor, a few miles to the south of the town of Malda, and are now mostly 
overwhelmed with reeds, and the trees of old fruit gardens become wild, and 
intermixed with palms. By Abul Fazel, in 1582, it is described as follows : 
** Jennetabad is a very ancient city, and was once the capital of Bengal. 
Formerly it was called Lucknowty (Lakshmanavati), and sometimes Gour. 
The present name, Jennetabad, was given it by the late Emperor Humayoon. 
Here is a fine fort, to the east of which is a fine lake, called Chutteah Putteah. 
in which are many islands.” 

The ruins of this town extend along the banks of the old Ganges, and pro- 
bably occupy a space of 20 square miles, which, as Indian cities are usually 
built, would not contain any very enormous population. Several villages now 
stand on its site, and eight market places, sufficiently contiguous to form a 
town, have been estimated to contain 3000 houses, many of which are of brick, 
procured from the debris of the ancient city. Some progress has also been 
made in bringing the surface under cultivation, but the undertaking is much 
impeded by the great number of dirty tanks, swarming with alligators, mus- 
quetoes, and all sorts of vermin, and choked up with pestilential vapours. The 
soil is of extraordinary fertility, and well suited for the mangoe and mulberry. 
The principal ruins are a mosque built of a black stone, called by former 
visitors marble; but Dr. Francis Buchanan considered it to be the black horn 
blende, or indurated potstone, as he could not discover one piece of marble, 
either of the calcareous or of the harder kind. The bricks, which are of a most 
solid composition, have been sold and carried away to Malda, and the neigh- 
bouring towns on the Mahananda ; and even Moorshedabad has been supplied 
with bricks firom this mass. The situation of Gour is nearly central to the 
populous part of Bengal and Bahar, and not far from the junction of the prin- 
eijMd rivers which form the excellent inland navigation. Lying to the east of 
the Ganges, it was secured against any sudden invasion from the only quarter 
whence hostile operations might be apprehended. No part of the site of 
ancient Gour is nearer to the present bank of the Ganges than four miles and 
a half, and some parts which were originally washed by that river, are now 
twelve miles from it. A small stream that runs past it communicates with 
its west side, and is navigable during the rainy season. On the east side, and 
in some places within two miles, it has the Malianuddy river, which is always 
navigable, and communicates with the Ganges. 

*Fke namft of Gour is apparently derived from Gur, which both in the ancient 
and modem languages of India, signifies raw sugar ; and from the Sanscrit term 
for manufiictur^ sugar (sarcara) are derived the Persian, Greek, Latin, and 
modmn European names of the cane and its produce. Gaura, or as it is comr 



230 THE PROVINCE [oistbict of 

monly called Bengalese, is the language spoken in the country of which the 
ancient city of Go»’r was the capital, and still prevails in all the districts of 
Bengal, excepting some tracts on the frontier; but it is spoken in the greatest 
purity throughout the eastern or Dacca division of the province. Although 
Gaura be the name of Bengal, yet the Brahmins who bear that appellation are 
not inhabitants of Bengal, but of Upper Hindostan. They reside chiefly in the 
province of Delhi, while the Brahmins of Bengal are avowed colonists from 
Kanoje. 

When Mahommed Bukhtyar Khillijee conquered Bengal in A. D. 1204, Gour 
was then a place of vast extent, and being selected by the commander for his 
chief station, soon attained a still greater magnitude. The last Hindoo sove* 
reign, named Raja Lakshmanyah, held his court at Nuddea, until expelled by 
the followers of the new religion. On the establishment of a Mahommedan 
dynasty, independent of Delhi, the seat of government was transferred to 
Purruah, on which event Gour appears to have suffered indiscriminate dilapida* 
tion. In 1535, the Emperor Humayoon, when in pursuit of Shere Khan, the 
Patau, (by whom he was afterwards expelled) took Gour, then described as the 
capital of Bengal. Ferishta says, that the seat of government was afterwards 
removed to Taunda, or Tangra, a few miles higher up^ since which period, 
although the city does not appear ever to have sustained any signal calamity, it 
progressively declined to its present state of desolation. — C F. Buchanan; Cok 
brooke, Rennell, Col. Colebrookc, Stewart, S^'c. S^c.) 

Pi'RRUAii ('or Peruya). — A town, or rather ruins of one, in the district of 
Dinagepoor, 12 miles north from the ancient ruins of Gour, lat. 25* 8' N. 
long. 88® 14' E. In A. D. 1353, this was a royal residence, the capital of Ilyas, 
the second independent sovereign of Bengal, at which time it was besieged and 
taken by the Emperor Feroze. During the reign of Raja Causa, a Hindoo 
monarch of Bengal, who died in 1392, the city was much extended, and the 
Brahminical religion flourished ; — but Purruah was in its turn deserted, for on 
his son's becoming a convert to the Mahommedan fmth, he removed the seat of 
government back again to Gour. — ( Stewart, Renmll, 8^, > 

Tandah (or Tarrah ). — ^A town in the Dinagepoor district, adjacent to the 
ancient ruins of Gour, lat. 24® 49 N. long. 88® 15' E. In A. D. 1564, SolinHin 
Shah, one of the Bengal sovereigns of the Shere Shah dynasty, made thilT 
place his capital, esteeming its situation more healthy than frist of Gour* In 
1660, Sultan Shujah was defeated near Tandah, by Meer Jumla, the geneild ef 
his brother Aurengzebe. There is Uttie remaining of this place except ^ 
ranqart, and owing to the surrounding swamps, it has never been eOttsidcied 
healthy by Europeans.-f&aewrf, RemeU, ^.) 



PVBHXAB.] OF BENGAL. 

Appolb. — ^A town in tiie Dinagepoor district, 80 miles, N. N. E. from 
Moonhedabad, lat. 25** S' N. long. 88« 59' E. 

BuxrouNOE (Bakshigatff). — A town in the Dinagepoor district, 84 milpir 
N. N. E. from Moorshedabad, lat. 25° 15' N. long. 88° 56' E. 

CoNCHON (Canchana, goldett ). — town in the Dinagepoor district, 63 miles 
N. by E. from Moorshedabad, lat. 25° 1' N. long. 88° 42' £. 

SsEBouKOE (Sivaganj ). — A town in the Dinappoor district, 84 miles N. N. E. 
from Moorshedabad, lat. 25° 3' N. long. 89° 12' E. 

TBE DISTRICT OF PURNEAH (Purimfa.) 

The territory which forms the jurisdiction of the judge and magistrate of 
Pumeah, is situated principally in the north-eastern quarter of Bengal, but 
it comprehends also a portion of the Mogul province of Bahar. On the north it 
is bounded by the Morung hills and woods ; on the south by Boglipoor and 
Rajshahy; to the east it has Dinagepoor, and to the west Boglipoor and 
Tirhoot. Its greatest length is 155 miles, and its greatest breadth about 98; 
(he total superficial contents 6340 square miles, distributed, according to Dr. 


prancis Buchanan, nearly in the following proportions. 
Rivers, tanks, marshes, and water courses 

viz. 

• « 

495 

Clay .... ... 

Liable to be 

1,090 

Good free soil ... 

flooded. 

1,605 

Light sandy soil .... 

. Ill 

Clay lands 


296 

Ash-coloured free soil . 


2,110 

Lig^t sandy soil 


633 


Total square miles 6,340 

Hie form of the dbtrict is tolerably compact, but at the south-east comer 
it stretches out into a narrow wing, where it is intermixed with Rajshahy 
and Boglipoor. Previous to the late war, the whole northern frontier also, 
which confined on the territories of the Nepaulese, was very ill defined, and 
occasioned many disputes between the two powers. The subdivisions into 
ptdioe departments are likewise intermixed, and of very unequal sizes. In 
1784, the square contents of Pumeah were only estimated at 5,119 miles ; but 
•■•cethen, besides a section from the Bahar province, it has been enlaiged by 
^ inomrporation of a large portion of the Momng. In the nordiern comer 
of the district, towards the Mahananda, are a few small hillocks of eairii, aibl 
ibuy^uuri, near the baidu of the Ganges, there is a conicaL pe^ of aboot 
Ifrfr in devatkm; but genemUy speaking die #itria may be docribed as 



THE PROVINCE 


232 


[district or 


a flat country^ gradually sinking as it approaches the Ganges. The inundated 
land occupies nearly one half of the whole, and, where the soil is good, is 
tolerably well cultivated. In one small portion near Manihari, the naked cal- 
careous stone is exposed on the surface, and is the only rock in the district. 

Since Major Rennell composed his Bengal Atlas, great changes have taken 
place in the rivers of Pumeah, so that the maps are little applicable to their 
present state. Their nomenclature also among the natives is to the last degree 
perplexed and inaccurate, scarcely two persons giving the same name to a river, 
or to the mart upon its banks. The names of the principal are : — 

The Cosi, The Bhakra, The Punabhoba, 

Mahananda, Lohandara, Ichamati, and 

Conki or kankayi, Sudhano, Kalendi. 

Ratoya, 

The lakes and morasses, formed by the channels of old rivers which have lost 
all connexion with their stream, are as numerous as in Rungpoor, but much more 
shallow. The most remarkable marshes form a long chain passing with some 
interruptions from Gondwara to Malda, and seem to be a congeries of broken nar- 
row channels, winding among low lands, which have probably at one period been 
the channel of a great river. Near the largest streams the soil of the inundated 
lands undergoes rapid changes ; the same field one year is overwhelmed with 
sand, and next year covered with a rich and fertile mud ; but on the whole the 
lands watered by the Mahananda and its branches are by far the richest, while 
those watered by the Cosi, especially towards the north and east, are rather poor 
and sandy. The lands exempted from inundation are parUy clay, partly free 
soil, and partly sandy. In favourable seasons the high lands of a mixed good soil 
are very productive of all kinds of grain, especially cruciform plants resembling 
mustard, which are reared for oil, and are the staple commodity of the district. 

In every part of Pumeah the cold of winter is greater than either in Rungpoor 
or Dinagepoor, and when strong westerly winds blow during that season for two 
or three successive days, hoar frost is found in the mornings, which occasionally 
is so extreme as to injure some crops, especially the pulse. In spring the hot 
winds from the west are usually of longer duration than in Dinagepoor; but 
towards the Morung frontier they are little known. The prevailing winds are 
north in winter, and south in the rainy season. From March to June the winds 
incline to the west, and from August to December easterly winds predominate. 
The violent squalls of the spring come as often from the east and north east, as 
they do from the north west ; the rainy season is of shorter duration than jfhrriwr 
east, and earthquakes, but not violent ones, are conuEEKMi 



PUBNEAH.] OF BENGAL. 233 

This district having many advantages of soil and climate, has always been 
considered one of the most productive in the province. Rice and other grains 
for food are raised in large quantities, but plants reared for oil, although greatly 
inferior in aggregate value, are the great object of commerce, and the source from 
which the rents are mostly paid. In 1810, the European potatoe, owing to the 
exertions of Mr. Smith, a merchant of Nathpoor, had come into general use among 
the natives, who use them, however, principally as a seasoning. Of the plants 
used for dyeing indigo is the most important. Besides those belonging to British 
subjects, the Hindoos and native Portugueze in 1810 had seven factories, and 
about 350 acres were cultivated for the native manufacturers of the district. 
Cattle here are an important article of stock, and it is from hence that Bengal is 
supplied with a great proportion of the carriage bullocks ; but the fine cattle 
used in the Bengal artillery, are not bred in this district, although usually termed 
Purneah bullocks, being from further west. The Company’s cattle are allowed 
a certain quantity of grain per day, which they do not always receive, but when 
kept up and fed for slaughter actually surpass the best English beef. The herds 
of cattle and buffaloes are here so numerous, that all the resources of the country 
would be unequal to their support, were it not for the adjacent wilds of the 
Morung. The natives of Purneah are almost entirely supplied with butter by 
the buflFaloe, and a considerable quantity of ghee, or bufi'aloe’s butter clarified, is 
also exported. The rice was formerly mostly sent to Moorshedabad and its 
vicinity, but latterly, it has mostly gone to Patna, where also some fine wheat is 
sent, most of the latter, however, still goes to Moorshedabad, The indigo of 
European manufacture is sent to Calcutta for exportation. Betel nut and coco 
nuts are imported from the more southern districts, and iron and copper mostly 
from the nortliem hills. The cotton wool is all brought from the west of India, 
by the route of Mirzapoor, Caunpoor, and Patna. The northern part of the 
district, bordering on the Morung, is thinly inhabited, and covered with immense 
woods of saul and other timber, which during the rains are floated down the 
rivers to the building yards at Calcutta. The cloth made entirely of silk goes 
partly to the Company’s factories, and is partly exported by private merchants. 
The cloth made of cotton and silk mixed is mostly exported by religious mendi- 
CBiits (Gossains) to the west of India. The quantity of English broad cloth 
used is a mere trifle. The sugar comes from Dinagepoor, Tirhoot, and Patna. 
The district on the whole is very well provided with water carriage, and the 
natives possess a great variety of boats adapted to different purposes. Within 
the whole district there are reckoned to be 482 market places, but the following 
the principal towns, viz. 

VOL. I. 


H H 



334 

THE 

PROVINCE. 

[disteict of 


Houses. 


Houses. 

Pumeah, containing about 

6,000 

Caligunge 

. 700 

Nautpoor 

1,400 

Kootubgunge 

. 600 

Kusbah 

1,400 

Mahadebpoor 

600 

Dhamdaha 

1,300 

Kishengunge 

. 500 

Matauli 

1,000 

Svefeunere 

. 400 

Khantaghur . 

700 




In 1789, Mr. Suetonius Grant Heatly, then collector of Pumeah, computed 
the number of villages at 5,800, from which he inferred a population of 1,200,000 
souls. In 1801, Mr. W. E. Rees reported the number of villages to be 7,056, 
and the estimated total population 1,450,000. Dr. Francis Buchanan was of 
opinion, that during the forty years prior to A. D. 1810, the population of Pur- 
neah had nearly doubled, and his computation, the result of a much more labo- 
rious investigation than either of the previous ones, exhibits a total population of 
2,904,380 persons, in the proportion of 43 Mahommedans to 57 Hindoos. Of 
these last more than half consider themselves as still belonging to foreign nations, 
either from the west or south, although few of them have any tradition concern- 
ing the era of their migration, and others have not any knowledge of the country 
from whence they came. Comprehended in the above population are various 
classes of slaves; of which one class costs from£l. 15^. to £2. 5s . ; in another 
class a youth costs from £1, 8#. to £2. 5s. and a girl of eight years from Hr. to 
£1. 1 5s. They are allowed to marry and their children become slaves ; but the 
family are seldom sold separately. One class of slaves are by far the most com- 
fortable description of labouring people, and are seldom sold by their owners 
although they possess the power. In 1810, the houses of bad fame were 470. 
There were formerly a few mud forts on the Morung frontier, but these are now in 
ruins. At Jellalghur, ten miles from the town of Pumeah, there is a brick fort 
built by the Nabob Syef Khan, of about 300 feet square, having circular bastions 
at each angle, and a parapet wall pierced with loopholes for musquetry ; but the 
most remarkable antiquity is the line of fortification, extending through the north 
west course of the district for about 20 n^es, and named Majumi Khata. 

In 1801, the reports of the public functionaries in Pumeah concurred in stating, 
that the cultivation, commerce and population had considerably increased since 
the decennial settlement, afterwards rendered perpetual; but that very extensive 
tracts still renwuned unproductive. In 1810, the totol produce of the arable lands 
was estimated by Dr. Francis Buchanan at 21,000,000 rupees; the total exports 
of every description whatever, 5,543,000 mpees; and the total imports, 2,038*000 
mp^. In 1802, the number of rent-fi:ee tenures in the division that hafl benaa 



OF BENGAL. 


PURKEAH.] 


235 


registered, amounted to 16,546, which number was then thought by the collector 
to be only one-eighth of the whole existing within its limits. These free estates 
have been granted under a variety of pretexts, but the owner is not obliged to 
apply them to their original purposes, and may alienate them whenever he 
chuses. Contrary to what is the case in Dinagepoor, these rent-free, or rather 
tax-free, lands, although let at a lower rate per annum than those subject to the 
revenue assessment, are the best cultivated, and the zemindars in general derive 
a much greater profit than ten per cent, on the amount of their jumma, the total 
of which in 1814 was 1,035,789 rupees, and the abkarry or excise on spirituous 
liquors, 37,476 rupees. In this district, the nature of the farms is very much 
affected by the rank of the tenants. All the high and pure tribes, such as Brah- 
mins, Rajpoots, Kayasthas, Seids, Patans and Moguls, have a right to occupy 
whatever land they require for their gardens and houses free of rent, and the 
same indulgence, is granted to men of both religions who pretend that they are 
dedicated to worship, such as Bairaggies, Sannyassies, Vishnuvies and Fakeers. 

Although the Mahommedans are in proportion fewer than in Dinagepoor, they 
have more influence, much more of the land being in their possession, and the 
manners of the capital town being almost entirely Mahommedan, and the faith 
apparently gaining ground. Except artists, all the other Mahommedans call 
themselves Sheikh, as deriving their origin from Arabia, but a great majority 
are not to be distinguished from the neighbouring Hindoo peasantry. The prin- 
cipal Mahommedans keep tutors for their children, and many of the Hindoos 
have their children educated at Benares. In 1810, there were about twelve 
families of native Christians, who are called Portugueze, and who are chiefly 
employed as writers. A Protestant missionary then resided in the south east 
comer of the district, but no intelligence has been received regarding the num- 
ber of his converts. 

By Abul Fazel, in 1582, this district is described as follows: “ Circar Poore- 
neah, containing 9 mahals; revenue, 6,408,793 dams. This circar furnishes 100 
cavalry and 5000 infantry.” During the Mogul domination this was a frontier 
military province, under the rule of a foujdar, subordinate to the soubahdar, or 
viceroy, but exercising a high jurisdiction both civil and military. Syef Khan is 
the most famous of these provincial rulers, and governed until his death in the 
Bettgalyear 1159, under the successive vice-royalties of Jaffier, Shuja, and Ali- 
verdi Khan. ■ In 1139, he extended by conquest the limits of his province beyond 
the Cosa, and in A. D. 1738, added a considerable -portion of productive ter- 
ritory on the side of Morung. He was succeeded by Soulet Jung, on whose 
death the foujdary was usurped by Shouket Jung, or Khadim Hossein Khan, 
but this reb^on was easily quashed, and terminated in the death of the pre- 

H H 2 



^56 the province [pisteict or 

tender. Wllen Lord Clive acquired the dewanny in 1766, the foujdary of Pur- 
neah was occupied by Raja Suchit Ray, the 16th foujdar; the 17th was Raai ud 
Deen; the 18th, Mahommed All Khan, who was succeeded by an English ma- 
gistrate, Mr. Ducarel. 

Before and since the acquisition of this territory, the most prevalent crime 
within its limits has been that of gang robbery, frequently attended with murder; 
but in 1814 the superin tendant of police was decidedly of opinion, that these 
atrocities had experienced a considerable reduction. The number of offences of 
this description in 1812 amounted to 81; in 1813 to 35; and in the first six 
months of 1814 to only ten. Much good had resulted from the establishment of 
a chain of police stations along the frontier, the officers at which were instructed 
to pursue offenders into the adjacent province of Morung, belonging to the 
Gorkhas of Nepaul. The burglaries reported in 1813 amounted to 836, more 
than double the number perpetrated during the preceding year, and exceeding 
the number stated to have been perpetrated in any other district of the Bengal 
province. In 1815, the continued unhealthiness of the towns of Pumeah and 
Dinagepoor left little doubt that the necessity of removing the civil authorities 
to more salubrious stations would ultimately be considered unavoidable, and it 
appeared desirable that the measure should be effected before the construction 
of new jails, or the repairs of the public buildings commenced. All expenditure 
for these objects was in consequence suspended, and the government endea- 
voured to obtain the most accurate information of the causes of the insalubrity 
which prevailed to so dreadful an extent in these towns, with the view of form- 
ing a final decision on this highly important question. Prior to the above date^ 
the acting magistrate had recommended the removal of the head station to Jel- 
kdghur, which he described as elevated, open, and at a distance from jungle, 
while the walls of the old fortress might be turned to account in the construction 
of a safe and commodious jail.-— C F. Buchanan, J. Grant, Cokbrooke, ThmMU, 
Rees, 4*c. ^c.) 

Cost River (Kausiki ). — ^This river has its source in the Nepaul hills, not far 
from the city of Catmandoo, from whence it flows in a south easteriy direction 
to near Chattra on the lower range of hills, where it winds more to the south, and 
descends by several cataracts, or rather violent rapids, towards the Britiih 
district of Pumeah, which it enters 20 miles north from Nauthpoor, by a 
channel two miles wide ; but, except in the height of the rains, almost filled with 
sand banks and islands, the latter covered with tatnariMlfi^ and coame grass. In 
dm cold season, most of the space between the islands becomes dry san4 b»t 
^re are always streams accessible to boats of 4 or 500 maunds, but in spring 
b^re the rise begiim, boats of huge dimmiidmu camaot pass, owing Ip fiba wtat 



puEKEAH.] OF BENGAL. 237 

of sufficient water. Being also near to the mountains, the Cosi is very subject to 
sudden risings and fallings, and in summer the water even so low as Nauthpoor 
retiuns a considerable degree of coolness. One of its contributary streams, the 
Arun, is supposed to rise north of the great Himalaya ridge, and to penetrate be- 
tween its snowy peaks. After entering Bengal, the course of the main trunk of 
the Cosi is nearly due south, in which direction it flows until it joins the Ganges, 
having performed a journey of about 300 miles.— fF. Buchanan, &;c.) 

CoNKi. — ^This is the most considerable mountain stream between the Teesta 
and the Cosi, and is said to have its source close to mountains covered with 
perpetual snow, if it does not actually penetrate from Tibet. It enters Bengal 
in the district of Pumeah, where it joins the Mahananda, after which its name 
disappears. In the rainy season it can be ascended by small water boats to a 
considerable distance, and is found very useful for the floating down of timber. — 
(F. Buchanan, ^'c.J 

Puhneaii.— The capital of the preeeding district, situated in lat. 25“ 45' N. 
long. 88“ 23' E. 125 miles N. W, by N. from Moorshedabad. This town, which 
occupies a space of nine square miles, equal to more than the half of London, 
contains only 40,000 inhabitants, scattered over this great extent, and might 
rather be described as an assemblage of villages than a single town. Within 
these limits there were in 1810, one hundred dwelling houses and 70 shops 
built entirely or in part of brick, and 200 that were roofed with tiles ; besides 
which there were ten private places of worship for Mahommedans, and five for 
Hindoos. The most compact part of the town is the east of the Saongri river, 
and consists of one wide and tolerably straight street, decently built and tiled, 
and reaching about half a mile from east to west. On the opposite side of the 
Saongri is Maharajegunge, a large but poor suburb, which extends south to 
Rambaugh, an arid sandy plain, on which the houses of the Europeans have been 
built, and where the courts of justice and jail are situated, both very mean 
buildings, and the latter little calculated to obstruct the convicts should they 
wish to change their abode, which in general a great majority have no inclination 
to do. As frequently happens in India, this station has been for many years 
deteriorating in point of salubrity, without any perceptible cause for tlie altera- 
tion, and in 1816, had become so destructive to all classes, that the Bengal 
government considered a removal of the civil authorities to some other station 
unavoidable. — ( F, Buchanan, Sfic.) 

Alltoukoe (AHganj).—-k town in the Pumeah district, 40 miles N.N.E. 
from the town of Pumeah. Lat. 26* 16' N. long. 87® 38' E.. 

MaHaajEOUNOE (Maha JR<ya Gat ^). — A small town in the Pumeah district, 
30 mi]ea ll. £i from the town of Punwaih. Lat 26® 4' N. long, 87® 57' E., 



238 THE PROVINCE [district of purkeah. 

Haidubam'. — A town in the province of Bengal, district of Pumeah, 
situated on the east side of the Mahananda river, 66 miles N. E. from Pumeah. 
Lat. 26® 20' N. long. 87® 69' E. The pergunnah, or rather estate in which this 
place is situated, is one of the largest in Pumeah, containing about 600,000 acres, 
besides a portion of Dinagepoor. During the reign of Acber it was but a small 
territoiy, the greater part of which belonged to the Booteas of Sikkim, and being 
overspread with jungle was much frequented by thieves. In this condition it 
remainedj until Seid Khan, a stranger, obtained possession, and the Booteas, 
proving troublesome, were driven to the mountains, and a fortress erected at 
Haldubary ; but the family fixed their residence at Khagra, near to the chief 
fortress, which the Booteas had built. — ( F. Buchanan, ^’c.) 

Taujepoob. — ^A town in the Pumeah district, 36 miles E. by N. from the 
town of Pumeah. Lat. 26® 45' long. 88® 15' E. 

Nauthpoor. — ^This place during the floods is situated on the side of the 
Cosi river, but in the dry season very extensive banks intervene between it and 
the navigable stream, so that goods must be carried on carts to and from the boats 
at Dimiya ghaut, about five miles from Sahebgunge, where the principal mer- 
chants reside. The town of Nauthpoor is situated in lat. 26® 17' N. long. 87® 3' E. 
and consists of the following market places; viz. Nauthpoor, containing 480 
houses; Rampoor435; Rajgunge 300; and Hanumangunge 400: total 1,216 
houses. By the exertions of Mr. Smith, (a merchant who was settled here in 
1810,) the town was greatly improved, the streets widened and straightened, the 
communications cleared, and much jungle cut down. Mr. Smith also induced 
workmen in brick to come from Nepaul, where they are more skilled in building, 
as living almost entirely in brick houses, and several of the natives were per- 
suaded to erect brick dwellings. At Sahebgunge there is a good Hindoo temple, 
dedicated to Hanumaun, the gigantic monkey, who was prime minister to Rama, 
the great emperor of India, but it has not, however, obtained much celebrity. — 
C F. Buchanan, ^'c.J 

Gondwara. — A town in the Pumeah district, 20 S. by W. from the town of 
Pumeah. Lat. 25® 33' N. long. 87® 26' E. 



THE PROVINCE OF BAHAR. 


(VIHAB, A MONASTERY OF BUDDHISTS.) 


This large province is situated principally between the 22d and the 27th degrees 
of north latitude. Until the recent conquests of 1815, it was separated from the 
Nepaulese dominions by a range of hills and a woody low country ; on the south 
it has the ancient and barbarous Hindoo province of Gundwana ; to the east it is 
bounded by the province of Bengal ; and on the west by Allahabad, Oude, and 
Gundwana. The river Caramnassa was the old line of separation between 
the Bahar and Benares territories. The space comprehended within these limits 
is one of the most fertile, highly cultivated, and populous of Hindostan, in pro- 
portion to its extent of plain arable ground, which may be computed at 26,000 
square miles, divided naturally into two equal portions of territory north and 
soutli of the Ganges, which runs here an easterly course of 200 miles. 

One of these divisions extends northerly 70 miles, to the forests of Nepaul 
and Morung; is separated from Goracpoor in Oude, on the west, by the 
Gunduck, and a crooked line between that river and the Goggrah. This northern 
division is bounded on the east by Pumeah in Bengal, the whole area being one 
uninterrupted flat, which was subdivided by the Emperor Acber into four dis- 
tricts, viz. Tirhoot, Hajypoor, Sarun, with Chumparun or Bettiah, including four 
pergunnahs from Monghir. 

The central division of Bahar extends south of the Ganges 60 miles, to that 
range of hills called in Sanscrit Vindhya-chil, which separates the lower plains 
from the territory above the ghauts. It is divided on the west from Chunar in 
Allahabad by the river Caramnassa ; and from Bengal, on the east, by a branch 
of the southern hills, extending to the pass of Telliaghurry on the confines of 
Rajamahal. The district named Bahar, which is in the middle of this central 
tract, occupies about one half of the whole level area, the plains of Monghir one- 
sixth more, the rest being mountainous. Rhotas, the most south western 
district, lies chiefly between the rivers Sone and Caramnassa; the remaining 
district Shahabad extending along the south side of the Ganges. This central 
divhaon, on su^unt of the superiority of the soil and climate, particularly of 
opiumt ;;ticlds nearly two-thirds of the total annual produce. Exclusive of these 



240 THE PROVINCE 

two divisions, there is a straggling hilly country of 8,000 square miles, which 
produces but little. 

Still further to the south there is a third and elevated region, containing 
18,000 square miles, though proportionably of inconsiderable value. The high- 
land includes the modern subdivisions of Palamow, Ramghur, and Chuta 
Nagpoor; bounded on the west by the Soubah of Allahabad, by Gundwana 
and Orissa, and on the east by Bengal. This last division is geographically 
termed the.three Bellads or Cantons, and is also sometimes described, under the 
appellation of Kokcrah, but more commonly Nagpoor, from the diamond mines 
it contains, or is supposed to contain. The following were the superficial con- 
tents of the province in 1784 : — 

Square miles. 

The assessed lands of eight districts containing . . . 20,287 

The lands belonging to Palamow, Ramghur, and Chuta Nagpoor 18,553 
Portion of hilly country in Monghir, Rhotas, &c. . . . 7,133 


Total 51,973 

In the institutes of Acber, compiled by Abul Fazel, A. D. 1582, this province 
is described as follows : 

" The length of Bahar from Gurher to Rhotas is 120 coss, and the breadth 
from Tirhoot to the northern mountains includes 110 coss. It is bounded on the 
east by Bengal, has Allahabad and Oude to the west, and on the north and south 
are large mountains. The principal rivers of this soubah are the Ganges and 
the Sone. The river Gunduck comes from the north, and empties itself into the 
Ganges at Hajypoor. The summer months here are very hot, but the winter is 
temperate. The rains continue for six months. In the district of Monghir is 
raised a stone wall, extending from the Ganges to the mountains, and the wall is 
considered to be the boundary between Bengal and Bahar. This soubah con- 
tains seven districts; viz. Bahar, Monghir, Chumparan, Hajypoor, Sarun, Tirhoot, 
and Rhotas. These are subdivided into 199 pergunnahs ; the gross amount of 
the revenue is 5,547,985 sicca rupees. It furnishes 11,415 cavalry, 449,350 
infantry, and 100 boats.” 

The province of Bahar possesses great natural advantages, a temperate climate, 
high and fertile soil, well watered, productive of the drier grains, and all the 
luxuries required by the more active inhabitants of the north. Its geographical 
position, also, is central, having easy communications internally, and serving as 
a thoroughfare for the commerce of Bengal, and of foreign maritime counties, 
w;i^ the provinces of Upper Hindostan. These advantages brought Balhtf into 
a high state of prosperity before the Patan conquest, and- which has <K)ntiltued 



OF BAHAR. 241 

without interraption amidst all its political vicissitudes. lu Bahar Proper, and 
the districts contiguous to it, a parching wind from the westward prevails during 
a large portion of the hot season. It blows with great strength during the day, 
but is commonly succeeded at night by a cool breeze in an opposite direction. 
Sometimes it ceases for days or weeks, giving way to easterly gales. Beyond 
the limits of the Bahar district to the west, the parching winds are still more 
prevalent ; refreshing breezes, or cooling showers of rain and hail, more rare. 
During the cold season a blighting frost is sometimes experienced in the Bahar 
and Benares provinces. 

Agriculture, manufactures, and commerce, have always greatly flourished in 
this province. Opium may be considered as its peculiar produce, and the staple 
commodity of the country ; saltpetre is principally manufactured in the divisions 
of Hajypoor and Sarun. Cotton cloths for exportation are manufactured every- 
where, in addition to which, are the ordinary productions of grain, sugar, indigo, 
oil, betel leaf, and a variety of flower essences, especially of roses. Like the 
greater part of Upper Hindostan, Bahar was formerly supplied with salt from 
the lake of Sambher in Rajpootana, but its inhabitants now consume the 
Bengal salt, with a portion of that imported from the coast of Coromandel. 

The manufacture of saltpetre scarcely passes the eastern limits of Bahar. It is 
a practical remark that the production of nitre is greatest during the prevalence 
of the hot winds, which are perhaps essential to its formation. These parching 
winds from the west did not formerly extend beyond the eastern limits of Bahar, 
but by the change of seasons, which have been remarked within these 30 years, 
the hot winds have extended their influence to Bengal Proper. Perhaps the 
manufhcture of saltpetre might on that account be attempted with success in 
many districts of Bengal. The actual extent of the saltpetre manufacture would 
admit of a production to whatever amount war or commerce required. What is 
delivered into the Company’s warehouses does not usually cost more than two 
rupees per maund of 80 lbs ; the rest, after paying duty and charges of trans- 
portation, and affording profit to several intermediate dealers, sells in general at 
four and five rupees per maund, for intenral consumption, or for traffic with 
difibrent parts of India. Formerly the saltpetre to Europe was in a great 
measure ctmfined to the Company's investment ; but private persons are now 
aUpwed to -export it in large quantities under certain restrictions. 

Ihe opium produced in the provinces of Bahar and Benares is monopolized 
by government, and sold in Calcutta by public sale ; and for various reasons this 
mmiopoly seems less exceptionable than many others. At present the opium 
agent of Ps^a makes his purchases, from the districts of Patna, Bahar, Kam- 
fiHhi^bad, Sarun, and Tirhoot ; but Dr. Francis Buchanan is of opinion, 

Vdi.. I. 1 1 



242 THE PROVINCE 

that with some pains, the whole quantity might be procured from the district of 
Bahar alone, which would tend greatly to the suppression of the contraband 
trade in this narcotic. Many expenses are incurred in bringing it to market, one 
of the heaviest being the loss by drying, which is entirely done in the factory at 
Patna, to which station it is brought in pots, just as it is collected from the 
plant, and in drying loses from one-tenth to one-eighth of its weight. As it 
dries it is formed into lumps, which are wrapped up in coverings made of the 
flower leaves of the poppy, joined together by placing them, while fresh, on a 
hot earthen pot. Some women earn a subsistence by preparing these coverings, 
which are sent to the factory ready joined. In the evening, each capsule of the 
poppy as it attains the proper degree of maturity, has a slight incision made in 
its whole length ; and next morning what opium has exuded, is collected. After 
two or three days, another incision is made at some distance from the first, and 
according to the size of the capsule, it admits of being cut from three to five 
times ; but the crop season lasts six weeks, as the capsules advance at different 
periods. The extraction of the opium does no material injury to the seed, which 
is chiefly used for future seed, but a little also is used in native sweetmeats. 
Formerly, the opium sent to Calcutta was much deteriorated by the intermix- 
ture of foreign ingredients, and it was difficult to discover the adulteration. It 
has, however, been commonly supposed to be vitiated with an extract from the 
leaves and stalk of the poppy, and with gum of the mimosa. Although the soil 
and climate are so singularly adapted for the production of this intoxicating 
drug, yet the Board of Trade in 1815 declared, that the two agencies of Bahar 
and Benares had never been able to supply a greater quantity of opium, in the 
most favourable seasons, than was sufficient to supply the demand for foreign 
trade ; and that during unfavourable seasons (which frequently occur), the 
quantity had never been equal to meet that object. 

In the nature of landed property, there are several distinctions between Ben- 
gal and Benares, of which the following are the principal. In Bengal the ze- 
mindaries are (or rather were) very extensive ; and that of Burdwan alone is 
equal in produce to three fourths of that of Bahar, in which province the ze- 
mindaries are comparatively small. The power and influence of the principal 
zemindars in Bengal are proportionably great, and they are able to maintain a 
degree of independence, which the inferior zemindars of Bahar have lost. The 
latter, also, having been placed under a provincial administration from distance as 
well as comparative inferiority, have been precluded from that degree of mfor- 
mation which the zemindars of Bengal, from their vicinity to Calcutta and l»* 
cess to the officers of government, have been able to obtain. The hmdf of JBtehair 
liave, from time immemorial, been let to farm ; and no general setdementi since 
the acquisition of the dcwanny, bad beeh concluded botare^ govenmmnt and 



OF BAHAK. 


243 

the proprietors of the soil, until the final and perpetual assessment of 1792 . 
There are few instances of Jaghires in Bengal, probably not more than three or 
four; bjut they are frequent inBahar. The custom of dividing the. produce of 
the land, in certain proportions between the cultivator and government, was 
almost universal in Bahar ; but in Bengal this custom was very partial and li- 
mited. Upon the whole, the proprietors of the soil in Bahar were in a degraded 
state as compared with those of Bengal. In Bahar there are but three principal 
zemindaries ; viz. the Rajas of Tirhoot, Shahabad, and Tickary. 

Here, as in Bengal, by the too precipitate conclusion of the perpetual revenue 
settlement, and abolition of the Canongoe office, the tenant was apparently left 
at the mercy of the zemindar, but experience has shewn that he does not in 
practice suffer the hardships, to which in theory he would appear exposed ; the 
reciprocal wants of the parties driving them to something like an amicable com- 
promise. The landlord can no more do without the tenant, than the tenant can 
do without the landlord. The obligation of the latter to pay his land-tax, is 
peremp'tory ; his failure, ruin. Starv’ation is equally the lot of the cultivator, if 
he cannot get employment. Nature, however, in this climate, requires little ; 
and although frequent instances have occurred of zemindars having been ruined, 
none has been recorded of a cultivator being starved for want of employment. 
In reality, the tenants both of Bahar and Benares are certainly in a better con- 
dition than during the time of Cossim Ali. One half of the produce is still the 
usual share of the cultivators, and the demand for them is so great, that they can 
and do make better terms. A tenant who had one plough at the time of the per- 
petual settlement, will be found to have now two or three ploughs ; and since that 
date, the rate of hire for a ploughman has nearly doubled, while grain is, on an 
average, much cheaper. And although cloth and some other articles of necessary 
use are dearer, the cultivator, who was formerly almost naked, is now seen clothed. 

The principal rivers of Bahar are the Ganges, the Sone, the Gunduck, the 
Dummodah, the Caramnassa, and the Dewah; the two last being boundary 
rivers : besides these, there are innumerable smaller streams, the country gene- 
rally being extremely well supplied with moisture. The towns of the greatest 
magnitude are Patna, Chuprah, Daoudnagur, Gaya, Boglipoor, Monghir, Arrah, 
Chittra and Muzufferpoor. As we advance north through Bahar, the race of 
men evidently improves, compared with those of Bengal, as they are taller and 
much more robust ; but between the two provinces so intimate a connexion has 
always subsisted, that it is difficult to separate their histories and statistics : the 
reader is therefore, for further information on these subjects, and more particularly 
with respect to the population, referred to the description of the Bengal province. 
In the remote period of Hindoo history as conveyed down by their mytho* 

1 I 2 



THE PROVINCE 


244 

logical legends, Bahar appears to have been the seat of two independent sove- 
reignties ; that of Magadha, or south Bahar, and that of Mithila (Tirhoot), or 
north Bahar. Although Gaya, the birth-place of Buddha, the great prophet and 
legislator of eastern Asia, be within the limits of this province, and is still a 
revered place of pilgrimage for sectaries of that persuasion, yet among the resi- 
dent inhabitants no Buddhists are to be found, so completely has the race been 
either converted or eradicated ; for there is considerable reason to believe, that 
until the Mahommedan conquest, the Buddhist religion was professed by the 
chiefs of the country ; and the Jains assert, that they were predominant prior to 
the Buddhists. A specimen of the Lord s prayer in the Magadha, or language 
of south Bahar, when examined by the missionaries, was found to contain 24 of 
the words used in the Bengalese and Hindostany translations ; besides some 
words of pure Sanscrit. A considerable proportion (probably one fourth) of the 
whole population, at present, profess the Mahommedan faith ; the territory hav 
ing been early subdued by these invaders, and the large towns along the course 
of the Ganges having been for several ages their favourite places of residence. 
The tranquillity which this tract of country has enjoyed since its transl’er to the 
British, is probably unexampled in the history of India ; the roar of the cannon 
at Buxar in 1764, being the last hostile sound that has reached the ears of its in- 
habitants. The consequence is, that the cultivation of the soil, especially since 
the decennial settlement, afterwards rendered perpetual, has been progressively 
increasing, and the population of particular parts (for it is difficult to get the 
natives to transfer their labour to contiguous wastes) absolutely overflowing. 
On the other hand, religious buildings are visibly on the decline, the followers 
of the two rival persuasions having no longer, as formerly, the means of con- 
structing such edifices. The few, which, at present, piety, or superstition, or 
vanity, finds means to erect, are in general poor and insignificant ; an observa- 
tion which also applies to domestic buildings of every description. In 1814 and 
1815, the jumma, or demand on account of the land revenue, and abkany or 


excise, for the province of Bahar, was as follows : 

Jumma. 

Abkarry. 

District of Bahar, See. 

1,748,006 rupees. 

318,675 rupees. 

Boglipoor 

385,916 

44,569 

Dharrumpoor 

244,756 

4,005 

Sarun .... 

1,410,560 

92,865 

Shahabad 

1,128,515 

48,947 

Tirhoot 

1,234,680 

40,037 

Total 

6,152,435 

549,103 

(J. Grant, F. Buchanan, Colehrooke, 

&r E. Cokkro^, 

Ifird Teignmcmth, Ok 


Imm Hossein, ^c. ^c. 



OF BAHAR. 


245 


DISTRICT OF BOGLIPOOR (Bhagelpur.) 

This district is situated between the 24th and 26th degrees of north latitude, 
and occupies the south east comer of the Mogul province of Bahar, together 
with a small portion of that of Bengal. On the north it is bounded by the 
districts of Tirhoot and Purneah; on the south by Ramghur and Birboom; to 
the east it has Purneah and Moorshedabad ; and to the west Bahar and 
Ramghur. Its greatest length from the boundaries of Birboom on the Dwaraca, 
to that of Tirhoot on the Tilawe, is about 133 miles in a N. N. W. and S. S. E. 
direction, and its greatest breadth, crossing the above line at right angles, is 
about 80 miles. By tracing the boundaries on Major Rennell’s map. Dr, 
Francis Buchanan estimated its contents at about 8,225 square miles, dis- 


tributed nearly in the following proportions, viz. 

Land occupied by rivers, tanks, marshes and water-courses . 364 

Clay 797 

Good free soil 573 

Light sandy soil 229 

Clay land 2,222 

Free soil 2,181 

Sandy or gravelly light soil 146 

Level rocks, stones, and barren lands 429 

Hills 1,285 


Total square miles 8,225 

In 1784, this district (then denominated Monghir) contained in all its 
dimensions 8,270 square miles, of which only 2,817 were in the Boglipoor 
division o'n both sides of the Ganges, and the whole territorial outline still 
continues very unsatisfactory, except where final decisions of the courts of 
justice have determined the disputed limits of different zemindaries. The 
modem capital is situated towards one of its extremities, and the whole section 
which is beyond the capital towards the north, is separated from it by the 
Ganges, which is attended with much inconvenience, and some danger. By 
Abul Fazel, in 1582, it is described as follows: " Circar Mungheer, containing 
81 mahals, revenue 109,625,981 dams. This circar furnishes 2,150 cavalry, 
and 60,000 infiintry.” 

The hills of Boglipoor in few parts compose regular chains of considerable 
length, in most places there being passages, at very short intervals, through 
which a traveller might penetrate without any great ascent ; but in the most 
Idlly parts, these apertures have been allowed by the natives to be choked up 



THE PROVINCE 


246 


[district or 


with trees, to protect their strong holds in former times. In the great cluster 
near Rajaraahal, the hills, notwithstanding the ruggedness of the soil, are tole- 
rably well occupied. In other clusters the hills are entirely waste. Many parts 
of the western cluster would admit df cultivation, and some have been tilled by 
the mountaineers ; but the encouragement of the latter is very doubtful policy, 
and the inhabitants of the plain will on no account cultivate the hills, lest the 
purity of their birth should ,be suspected. The whole of these clusters, and 
even of the hills of Rajamahal, compose, in the opinion of the natives, a part of 
the Vindhyan mountains. Besides the hilly tracts there is a considerable 
extent of swelling ground divided into two portions, that exempted from the 
influence of the Ganges, and that liable to be affected by its floods. 

Above Monghir, the Ganges forms the boundary between Boglipoor and 
Tirhoot, for about 30 miles. The other principal rivers and streams are, 

The Bogmutty, The Ulayi, The Baghdar, The Baruya, 

Goggry, Nagini, Ghorghat, Mooteejerna, and the 

Kiyul, Augjana, Mohane, Dobee. 

Maura, Nacti, 

Exeept in the eastern corner, none of the rivers flowing from the south are 
navigable, and in the dry season it is chiefly near their sources that these rivers 
contain any visible stream. The pieces of stagnant water may be divided into 
jeels which contain water throughout the year, and chaongre which dry up in 
the cold season. Some of the jeels are evidently the old channels of large 
rivers, which at both ends have lost all communication w’ith the stream, but 
are so filled with water during the periodical rains, that even in spring they do 
not become dry. The principal jeels, however, are low lands, which collect a 
great quantity of water from floods and torrents, and never become dry. The 
most conspicuous of these is Domjala, south from Rajamahal, which in the 
rainy season is 7i miles long, by 3l broad, and in the dry season 4 miles by li. 
South winds are very uncommon in Boglipoor, east and west winds being the 
most prevalent for a great portion of the year. The former begin about the 
middle of June, and the latter about the middle of February, so that the east 
winds last double the time of those of the west, but they blow with less 
violence ; many remarkable deviation^' however, take place. The winters are 
less cold than in Pumeah, and Uie heats of spring, when the winds axe westerly, 
very severe, these winds being hot, and parchingly dry, and the hills are no 
where of a height sufficient to reduce the temperature of the atmosphere. 

In the Boglipoor district there is a great variety of surfiwe, but on the 
whole the portions of it fit for the plough appear rich, and capable of being 
tendered highly productive. A considerable extent is occupied by nfelPe rock, 



OF BAHAR. 


DOCLIPOOB.] 


247 


totally inci^able of cultivation, and a still greater space is covered with frag- 
ments of rock of various sizes. On the hills these masses are so large and 
numerous, that, could the plough be used on account of the declivity, the 
nature of the ground would render its agency impracticable. It has been 
estimated that in woods, thickets of bushes, and deserted villages, which have 
become totally wild, there are 1731 square miles of land sufficiently level for the 
plough, and that there are 1146 square miles of hills that are covered with 
woods. Including the ground covered with tamarisks, therefore, there are in 
all, for forests and thickets, almost 3100 square miles ; by far the greater part 
of which is kept, owing to various causes, in a very stunted condition. The 
teak tree has been planted near Boglipoor by some gentlemen ; but it has not 
thriven. In many parts of the southern centra, division iron ore has been 
found, but generally in such small masses, that it would not answer for 
European manufacture. The most noted hot spring is at Seetacoond, near the 
town of Monghir, and there is another at Bhurka, six miles south from 
Seetacoond, The finest hot spring is at Bheembund, about 17 miles south 
from Bhurka, in which on the 21st of March, 1810, the thermometer stood 
at 144" Fahrenheit ; but there are many others of various temperatures. 

Rice, although of less importance than in districts further east, is here by 
far the greatest culmiferous crop. The next in importance is wheat, and at 
Rajamahal and Monghir, abundance of fine flower may be procured; next 
comes barley and then maize, which is the grain best suited for the high lands 
w'here the soil is good. The proportion of land that gives two crops is smaller 
than in Pumeah, and the custom of mixing several things in one crop more 
prevalent. In most parts of the district, on account of the white ants, grain 
cannot be kept in pits ; but in the low inundated lands, where these destructive 
insects cannot harbour, pits are used in the dry season. The European 
potatoe has come into very general use at Monghir and Boglipoor, where they 
are cultivated and preserved throughout the year. Cotton is a considerable 
crop, but the quantity raised is not sufficient for the consumption of the 
disbict, much is consequently imported. In 1810, there were 32 indigo 
&ctories, all situated near the river, and having about 91,000 begahs under 
cultivation; the total annual produce was estimated £|,t 7,000 maunds. The 
farmer here allows from 20 to 30 bundles of the plant, as the average produce 
of a begah,^ Calcutta measure ; and the price given by the factories varies from 
12 to 20 bundles for the rupee. Day labourers receive about three seers of 
grtiitt per day, or money and grain equivalent. 

"Hie Y«at-firee lands in this district are very extonsivc, and abstract greatly 
tlw revenue, as it is usually the best soil, and situated in the most 



248 THE PROVINCE [district of 

jjopulous parts of the country. Another burthen has tended to reduce the 
revenue of this large territory to an insignificant sum, which is the assignment of 
lands to invalid soldiers, as part of their subsistence, and a reward for their 
services. It has however been found, after an enormous expenditure, that the 
expectation of rendering this a comfortable provision for the veteran was 
fallacious, and the plan has been most judiciously abandoned. For the future, 
the invalids will be rewarded with money, which is much better suited to their 
habits and infirmities, less expensive and more easily regulated. The whole 
land purchased by government, on account of the invalids, amounts to ‘ 234,000 
Calcutta begahs, which may be converted into three zemindaries. The existing 
zemindars, notwithstanding the indulgence that has been shewn them in the 
revenue assessment, have not the least confidence in the perpetual settlement, 
and have recourse to every stratagem to conceal their profit ; which, where any 
pains have been taken to cultivate the lands, are probably enormous. In 1814 , 
the jumma, or land assessment to the revenue, amounted to only 385,916 
rupees, and the abkarry, or tax on spirituous liquors, to 44,569 rupees. 

The drains on population in this district are not great, yet after so long a 
peace, and with so much unoccupied territory, the increase of inhabitants has 
not been so great as might have been expected. In 1810 , the total number of 
Mahommedans within the limits of the Jurisdiction were estimated by Dr. 
Francis Buchanan at 460 , 000 , and of Hindoos at 1 , 659 , 900 , making a total for 
the whole district of 2 , 019,900 souls. The Monghir and Suijegurry pergunnahs 
are ovei-stocked with inhabitants, yet the people cannot be persuaded to settle 
in the adjacent wastes of Mallepoor. The following are the principal towns, 
besides Rajamahal, which contains 25,000 inhabitants : 

Houses. Houses. Houses. 

Boglipoor . 5,000 Serasin . 600 Caligunge . 600 

Champagnagur 1,500 Surjegurry 500 Atapoor . 500 

Nathnagur . 900 Arjungunge 500 Colgong . 400 

Besides Monghir and Oudanulla there are the remains of a considerabte number 
of brick and mud fortresses, some of which, belonging to the Cumickpoor And 
Gliiddore families, were destroyed by 6aptain Brooke, who was sent to reduce 
their chiefs to subordination during &e government of Mr. Hastings. The best 
looking modem edifices are the indigo factories. Real slaves of the male sex 
are here called Nufur, and their women Laundi^. They may be sold in w^hat* 
ever manner the master chuses, but they are not oftoi brought to maHcet, and 
are all either of the Dhanak or Rawani castes. The slaves here are in geii!^ 
industrious, seldom run away, and are rarely beaten. Prostdtutes 
number, and mostly of the Mahommedan rdigion. The l^sneral ^lanclmr cf #e 



OF BAHAR. 


B 06 UP 00 R.] 


249 


inhabitants of this district is far superior to that of the south eastern natives of 
Bengal, and one magistrate in his report to government declares, that inoom- 
parison with the Backergunge people they may be termed saints. 

Boglipoor is a remarkable thoroughfare for travellers both by land and water, 
who expend a great deal of money in the purchase of necessaries, such as rice, 
pulse, salt, oil, seasoning, fire-wood, tobacco, and betel. Upon an average it 
may be estimated that one hundred boats stop daily at Rajamahal, besides those 
at Pointy, Colgong, Sultangunge, Siirjegurry, Boglipoor, and Monghir; while 
by land, multitudes of pilgrims, troops, and European travellers, are continually 
passing. The East India Company’s dealings, however, in this district are 
inconsiderable, consisting of a little silk, Boglipoor cloth, and saltpetre. 

The mountaineers within the Boglipoor jurisdiction are supposed to occupy a 
space of about 1,600 square miles, and are exempted from all taxes and the 
ordinary course of the law. An enormous establishment of nearly 2,500 men 
is retained to check this handful of barbarians, who are besides bribed by annual 
pensions to give up the committing violent outrages, such as robbery and murder. 
The Rajas, or chiefs, who receive pensions of ten rupees per month from govern- 
ment, and some of the Naibs, or deputies, are of the rank of Singhs; the 
remainder of the Naibs, and all the Majhis, who are pensioned at the rate of two 
rupees per month, are of the rank of Majhi. The land, which appears to be 
the property of the cultivators, is tilled for two years and then abandoned for • 
five or six. In the low lands that are ploughed, they raise the same articles as 
on the hills, with the addition of rape-seed and sesamum. They collect wild 
yama, and besides cows for milk and labour, they rear swine, goats, fowls, and 
pigeons for eating. Many still retain a superstitious worship of their own, but 
a great number of the wealthiest have fallen under the spiritual dominion of a 
low caste of Brahmins, who have instructed them to worship Durga, and say 
prayera before a beel tree. Both sexes are much addicted to intoxication, and 
the amount of the government pensions is generally spent in liquor at Boglipoor, 
the chiefs returning to the hills as bare of money as they came. The exports of 
these mountaineers consist of grain, indurated clay, timber, fire-wood, charcoal, 
wax, and cotton ; their imports are cloths, iron, copper, brass, and bell-metal 
wares, rice, fish, cattle, oil, spices, and salt. 

Faun the time of the Mahommedan invasion until the British obtained pos- 
seanm^ the greater part of this district appears to have been in a constant state 
of aOBTchy. Some of the original tribes seem never to have been subdued by 
the Hindoo followers of the Brahmins, and it is only lately that many of them 
have put themselves under the guidance of the sacred order. Even under the 
iVay ai Sultan Shuja, when the Mogul empire flourished in vigour, and when 

vot. r. K R 



THE PROVINCE 


250 


[district of 


that prince actually resided in the district, some portions of the plains were sub- 
ject to petty chiefs who contemned his authority, and incessantly agitated the 
country by their incursions and refractory habits. Mogul officers of rank com- 
monly resided at Rajamahal, Boglipoor, and Monghir, and the first still continues 
a favourite place of residence with the Mahommedans. Cossim Ali, after his quar- 
rel with the English, dwelt for some time at Monghir, and intended to secure his 
independence by a line of fortifications erected at OudanuUa. The forcing of 
these by Major Adams in 17G3, dissipated. this vision ; but the turbulence of the 
chiefs of the interior increased, and Captains Brooke and Browne were for seve- 
ral years employed in a miserable warfare with these tribes, but the forces em- 
ployed were never of such strength as to bring the matter to a conclusion. At 
length Captain Browne, of course with the assent of government, by enormous 
concessions induced the discontented to become quiet, and his concessions were 
confirmed by Mr. Cleveland, the civil functionary who succeeded him in autho- 
rity over the wilder parts of the district. The result was a ruinous .settlement 
and establishment, which still forms part of the Boglipoor economy, and which 
in the opinion of competent judges (Dr. F. Buchanan, and Mr. Sisson) has pro- 
duced but little ultimate benefit, those hills in which there is no establishment of 
the kind (Ghautwallas), having continued as tranquil as those in which that 
establishment Avas introduced. In 1814, the corporate establishment of the 
Boglipoor hills consisted of 13 Sirdars or chiefs, 30 Naibs or deputies, and 400 
Manjhees. The pension of a Sirdar is 10 rupees, of a Naib 3, and of a Manjhee 
2 rupees per month. Although the great extent and physical composition of this 
district necessarily tend to weaken the controul of the magistrate, yet in 1815 
few crimes of magnitude occurred, the most noted being a murder perpetrated 
among the hills on a woman by her husband, who confessed the crime, and 
attempted to justify it on the plea that she was a bad housewife, and neglected 
her domestic duties. The Boglipoor district, although not so populous a.s some 
others, is of such extent, that it is difficult for the magistrate to exercise an 
efficient controul, some of the tannalis or police stations being 100 miles distant 
from head quarters. Great benefit resulted to Monghir, and the police of its 
neighbourhood, in 1813, from the appointment of an assistant magistrate to reside 
in that quarter, offences having immediately diminished in number, but the 
general police of the jurisdiction in 1814 was far from having attained the state 
of efficiency to which it had been carried in some of the districts adjacent. — 
(F. Buchanan, Sisson, J. Shakespear, Tennant, lS$c.) 

Boglipoor.— The modem capital of the district, situated in lat. 25* 13* N. 
long. 86* 58' E. 110 miles N. W. from Moorshedabad. This town has a mem 
appearance although placed in a beautiful situation. The Europe^ boopiM and 



BooLipooE.] OF BAHAR. 251 

the Mahommedan mosques are ornamental, but the town consists of scattered 
bazars wretchedly built, and owing to the declivities inconveniently situated. 
The most compact portion is the market place, named Shujah Gunge, in which 
there are three or four streets closely built, and the total number of houses may 
be estimated at 5,000, which, allowing six persons to a house, would give a po- 
pulation of 30,000 souls. A majority of the inhabitants are Mahommedans, 
and a college of that religion still exists, but in a great state of decay. At this 
place there is a small church belonging to the Papists, and about fifty Christians 
of that persuasion. Half of these are the descendants of Portugueze, and the 
remainder native converts who retain their own dress and manners. In 1810, 
the priest was a native of Milan, sent by the Societas de Propaganda Fide, who 
had also charge of the Purneah flock of catholics. Near Goganullah, on'e stage 
from Boglipoor, is a monument resembling a pagoda, erected to the memory of 
Mr. Cleveland by the officers and zemindars of the Jungleterry of Boglipoor, as 
a mark of gratitude for his mild and conciliatory conduct. — ( F. Buchanan, S^c.) 

Bojgariah. — A town in the Boglipoor district, situated about 130 miles N. W. 
from Moorshedabad. Lat. 24® 53' N. long. 86® 52' E. 

Noony (Lavan'i, brackish). — A small town in the Boglipoor district, 74 miles 
W. N. W. from Moorshedabad. Lat. 24* 28' N. long. 87® 8' E. 

CuAMPAXAGt'R. — A Considerable town in the Boglipoor district, three miles 
vrestfrom the town of Boglipoor, lat. 25® 14' N. long. 56® 55' E. Champanagur 
and Lakshmigunge are populous and tolerably compact, and contain collectively 
about 1,500 houses, mostly occupied by weavers. At this place there is a mo- 
nument of a Mahommedan saint of some note and great size, for his monument 
is said to equal what were his length and stature, which on this authority must 
have been nine cubits. These great dimensions were probably allowed to the 
saint from his having been placed at Champanagur, among the Jains, whose gods 
are all of very great length. — ( F. Buchanan, S^'c.) 

CuRRUtfkPOOR (Kharakpur). — A town and large zemindary in the Boglipoor 
district, 18 miles south from Monghir, lat. 25® 8' N. long. 86® 35' E. Owing to 
the natural strength of the country, the Curruckpoor chiefs formerly possessed 
considerable power, and, when at variance with the government, used to retire 
to the narrow vallies among the hills, where they could not be followed by the 
Mogul horsemen. — ( F. Buchanan, j 

SoRAJEOHUR. — A town in the Boglipoor district, 68 miles E. S. E. from Patna, 
lat. 24* 14' N. long. 86® 15' E. 

GuinniiORE. — ^This place is principally remarkable for the ruins of an old 
Ctsfl^ said to have been built by Shere Shid^, the Patan, who expelled Hooma- 
yua ^tl»r of Acber, and became Emperor of Hindostan. What at pr^ent 

K x2 



252 the province [dwteict or 

remains consists of a wall rudely built of uncut stones from the adjacent moun- 
tains, and very ill arranged. At the middle and angles these walls are 23 feet 
thick at the bottom, and about 17 at the top, and seem originally to have been 
about thirty feet high, without a ditch, and solely adapted for the use of missile 
weapons. Lat. 24“ 62' N. long. 86® 10' E. 37 miles S. S. W. from Monghir.— • 
( F, Buchanan, 8^v.) 

Chackv (Chaki). — A town in Boglipoor district, 102 miles S.E. from Patna. 
Lat. 24® 33' N. long. 86° 25' E. 

CuRRucKDEAH (Coracdch ). — A town and zemindary in the Boglipoor dis- 
trict, 100 miles S, E. from Patna. Lat. 25® 8' N. long. 86® 13' E. 

Palgunoe. — A town (formerly fortified) in the Boglipoor district, 122 miles 
S. E. from Patna. Lat. 24° .5' N. long. 86® 15' E. 

Monghir (AJudga giri). — A celebrated town and fortress in the province of 
Bahar, situated on the .south side of the river Ganges. Lat. 25® 23' N. long. 86“ 
26' E. The fort of Monghir is large and surrounded by a wall and deep ditch, 
and has, probably owing to its physical advantages, been a place of note from 
the remotest antiquity. It is most beautifully situated on a bend of the Ganges, 
which in the rainy season forms here a prodigious expanse of fresh water. 
During the whole period of the Mogul government, Monghir continued to be a 
place of importance, and was the station of a series of officers of considerable 
rank. It was strengthened by Shah Shujah, brother to Aurengzebe, and almost 
a century afterwards repaired by Cossim Ali, when he intended to throw off his 
dependence on the English government, which had raised him to the throne. He 
added considerably to the fortifications, and endeavoured to discipline the na- 
tives for its defence, but in vain for it was taken after a siege of only nine days. 
While Monghir was a frontier town, it was a place of considerable importance, 
a station of one of the brigades, and a depot of ammunition ; but since the ex- 
pansion of the British dominions beyond Delhi, and the selection Of Allahabad 
for a depot, the fort of Monghir has been suffered to decay, and is now degraded 
to an invalid station, a lunatic asylum for the native military, and a depot for 
army clothing ; the neighbourhood being a noted resort of tailors. In case of 
exigence, the fortifications might still be repaired so as to exclude a native army ; 
but without a total change could not'ltc made to resist a regular attack, the 
works being of a great extent, and apparently never intended for defence by 
ordnance. 

The town of Monghir, as distinct from the fortress, consists of sixteen different 
markets, scattered over a space of about one mile imd a half long and one wide. 
The only two portions m this space that arc close built, or resemble a town, are 
without the eastern and southern gates of the fort ; at each of whfeh is a afreet 



OF BAHAR. 


BOG LI POOR.] 


t253 


sufliciently wide to admit carriages to pass, and closely built, with several brick 
houses. Between the river and the northern gate of the fort, is a suburb, which 
may be considered as the fort, but it is mostly built on the sand of the Ganges, 
which renders it necessary every year to remove many of the houses during the 
floods. The number of houses may be estimated at 5000, and six persons allowed 
to a house, giving a population of 30,000 souls. The place of worship in most re- 
pute among the Msdiommedans, is the monument of Peer Shah Hossein Lohauni, 
where both Hindoos and Mahommedans make frequent oflierings, especially on 
their marriages and other emergencies. The gardeners of Monghir are noted 
tljroughout Bengal for their expertness, and, as has already been mentioned, the 
tailors are not of less celebrity, much of the army clothing being made here, be- 
sides shoes, both of native and European fashions. Here also, and at Boglipoor, 
are some workmen who make European furniture, palanquins, and carriages, 
and when furnished with sound materials-, and well looked after, are really clever 
workmen. The blacksmiths occupy about 40 houses, and make goods after the 
European fashion, very coarse when compared with English articles, but still 
useful and cheap as will be seen by the following prices, viz. double barrelled guns 
32 rupees ; rifles, 30; single barrelled fowling pieces, 18; muskets, 8; match- 
locks, 4 ; pistols, 1 0 ; double ditto, 30 ; table knives and forks per dozen, 6 
rupees. The barrels of the fire-arms are made by twisting a rod round an iron 
spindle, and then hammering it together ; the bore is afterwards polished and 
enlarged by borers of different sizes. 

The hot spring named Sectacoond, is situated on a plain near the Ganges, 
about 4 or 5 miles from Monghir. A cistern of brick has been built to include 
the springs, and forms a pool of about 18 feet square. At different places many 
air bubbles rise from the bottom, issuing many at one time, with irregular inter- 
vals between the ascents ; and near to where these rise the water is alw'ays 
hottest. When visited by Dr. Fi-ancis Buchanan in April 1810, the thermometer, 
in the open air being 68°, rose to 130 when immersed ; on the 20tli of that month, 
from 84° to 122° ; yet on the 28th, a little after sunset, the thermometer only 
rose from 90“ to 92°. At another period, on the 21 st July, from 90“ to 132 ; and 
on flltc 2l8t of September, from 88 to 132“. The water is clear, and the heat 
generally prevents its being polluted by the natives and other animals. 

Travelling distance from Monghir to Calcutta by Birboom, 275 miles; by 
Mbonhedabad. 301 miles.— Buchanan, Rennell, 

” Mootvjebka (Mutijarna)—A cataract in the Boglipoor district, situated 
about eight miles inland from the Ganges. It consists of two falls, which taken 
tt^ther, measure 105 feet, perpendicular height. The water after Ming over 
vfwt masses of rocks is received in a basin below. At the bottom of the lower 



254 the province [district or 

fall is a cave, from within which the water may be seen forming an arch on the 
outside. — ( Hodges, S^c.) 

CoLGOxG (Kahalgang ). — A small town in the Boglipoor district, containing 
about 400 houses, situated in latitude 25° 14' N. long. 87° 15' E. 102 miles N.W. 
from Moorshedabad. Although the Ganges runs almost due north from Colgong 
to Patharghaut for about eight miles, and although it not only washes but sur- 
rounds the rocks of the Vindhyan mountains, this spot, which ought by the Hin- 
doos to be thought on both accounts peculiarly holy, is totally neglected ; and 
no assembly of that persuasion takes place here for the purpose of expiating 
their sins by ablution. On the contrary, all the pilgrims flock to the opposite 
side, where the river follows its usual course, and the country is a dead level. — 
(1\ Buchanan, &;c.) 

TELLiAGiiuanv. — A small town in the Boglipoor district, 23 miles N. W. 
from Rajainahal. Lat. 25° 15' N. long. 87* 37' E. The hills here descend to 
the river, and collectively form the boundary between the Mogul provinces of 
Bahar and Bengal. Sultan Shujab built here a fortress, which has been a con- 
siderable work, the two extremes being a mile from each other. The gates are 
of stones, but the houses within are entirely of brick. In 1810 an iron cannon of 
extreme rudeness still remained at the western gate. — ( F. Buchanan, ^r.) 

THE DISTRICT OF BAHAR. 

A large district of Bahar province, of which it occupies the central portion. 
On the north it is hounded by the Ganges ; on the south by the districts of 
Ramghur and Boglipoor ; to the east it has Boglipoor, and on the west Shahabad. 
Its greatest length is about 120 miles, and its greatest width 80 ; the superficial 
contents of the whole being about 5,358 square miles, of which about 403 belong 
to the city of Patna jurisdiction, leaving to Bahar 4,955 square miles. On the 
whole this zillah may be considered as tolerably compact, although the boundaries 
towards Ramghur are very ill defined. In 1784, according to Major Rennell, it 
contained 6,680 square miles, besides hilly territory dismembered from Pahunow 
and Ramghur ; but since that era much has been restored to the latter, and a 
small territory attached to the city of Pariia as above related. The coUector of 
Bahar, who tesides at Patna, has under his care not only the greater part of the 
lands that are under the magistrates of Patna and Bahar, but receives idso the 
revenues of the Ramghur district. By Abul Fazel, in 1582, it is descrihod as 
follows : “ Circar Bahar, containing 46 mahals, measurement 052,598 hsfahs, 
revenue 83,196,390, segurghal 2,270,147 dams. This circar furtiishes 241® 
cavalry, and 67,350 infimtry.” 

Agreat proportion of this district is level and highly cultivated land, but the^ 



BAHAiu] OF BAHAK. 255 

also many hills, most of which are extremely rugged, being, from a difference in 
their component parts, much more broken than others, and their sterility is ren- 
dered more conspicuous by their nakedness. A great many of these hills are 
scattered about with the utmost irregularity, and stand quite insulated among 
the soil of the plains. In the heart of the district are three remarkable clusters ; 
one on the west side of the Phalgu, named the Barabar Pahar ; one on the eastern 
side of Ae Phalgu, named the Rajagriha hills ; the third is a long narrow ridge 
adjacent to Sheikhpoorah, but the whole are of inconsiderable elevation, the 
highest probably not exceeding 7 00 feet. The hills towards the southern boundary 
are more considerable, and some of them probably twice the above height. From 
hence a continuation of hills and narrow vrallies, reaches with little or no inter- 
ruption to a great extent, possibly to Cape Comorin, and all these hills are con- 
sidered portions of the Vindhyan mountains, which bound the great Gangetic plain. 
The hills of this district no where approach the Ganges, and the interior of the 
country, reckoning from the Ganges, is in general flat, although not so low tis to 
be liable to inundation. The terra Terriani is here applied to the bank of the 
Ganges, whether high or low, and vast pains are employed by the inhabitants 
in collecting and conducting water. 

The Ganges is no where fordable within the limits of the Bahar division, at any 
season of the year, and its channel when clear of islands is generally a mile 
wide. Besides that noble stream, the chief rivers are the Sone, the Punpun, the 
Murahar, the Dardha, the Phalgu, the Saeri, and the Panchane, with their 
numerous branches. There is nothing in Bahar that can be called a lake, and 
the marshes are of small extent. During the rainy season, for tlie purposes of 
rice cultivation, the greater part of the country is converted into a marsh ; but 
in the dry season, even the low lands, parallel to the Ganges from Patna down- 
wards, become quite dry. On the banks of the Ganges towards the Sone, west 
winds usually prevail from the 13th of January to the 26th of March, from which 
period until the I2th of June, the east and west winds are nearly equal. From 
the last date until the end of July, the east wind prevails, and from then until 
the end of August, the west winds prevail. From that time to the end of 
October, the east winds return, and, finally, from that period until the 13th of 
January, the east and west winds are -nearly balanced ; many irregularities, how- 
ever take place in the periods and duration of these winds. The rainy season is 
generally of the same duration as in Boglipoor ; but when the fall has not been 
Ttny-copiOtts, from the 16th of September to the 15th of October, the rice crops 
there is a good deal of nun towards the end of October. Rains 
whid^ happen in January are injurious to most crops, especidly to wheat, 
alOiongh the fields of that grain require at that season to be artificially watered. 



256 the province [0I8TEICT or 

Two or three da 3 ’’s of cloudy weather with drizzling rain will, at that season, 
entirely buhi up a crop of wheat. 

Although the winters are not severe, fires are then extremely comfortable, and 
ail the natives who can procure one sleep by it, yet frosty nights are rare. The 
heats of spring are excessive, and much aggravated by the dust, there not being 
at that time a vestige of vegetation, and not only the west winds, but also those 
from the east are hot and parching. The heat of the Bahar district is on the 
whole much higher than that of Tirhoot. Even the difference between Patna 
and Hajypoor, two places situated opposite to each other, with only the Ganges 
intervening, is very observable ; and between Gaya and Muzufferpoor is much 
greater than might be inferred from the trifling difference of latitude ; yet by the 
natives Bahar is considered a healthy country, while Tirhoot, except its northern 
parts, is not considered such. Both Patna and Gaya are found to be hotter than 
most other parts of the district. The heat of the first seems owing to a great 
extent of naked sand on an island immediately fronting the town, and that of 
Gaya partly to the immense sands of the Phalgu, and partly to the reflection of 
the sun from the arid rocks by which it is surrounded. 

In this district there is much land of a poor soil, but the proportion absolutely 
unfit for the plough is smaller than in Boglipoor or Purneah. Close up to the 
hills is in general arable, the stony broken land even in their vicinity not being 
considerable, but most of the hills are utterly unfit for cultivation. Very few of 
the islands in the Ganges belong to Bahar, and its southern bank is in general 
high, so that the quantity of land which it has covered with sand is incon* 
siderable, and is mostly confined to the islands. On the other hand, near the 
large rivers of the interior, especially near the immense channels of the Sone and 
Phalgu, the strong dry west winds of spring have blown from the parched beds 
of the torrents large heaps of sand that form little hillocks, frequently changing 
place, and perfectly barren. The channel of the Sone is in some places of a 
tolerable soil, and in the dry season is cultivated without the smallest danger of 
interruption from its stream. There are no embankments in Bahar for excluding 
the floods of any considerable size, but many of a smaller and more beneficial 
description. Near the Ganges, a great deal of land gives two crops in the year; 
but in the interior not above one-eighth.*^- Rice is the moat important crop» and 
great pains are bestowed on its culdvation. The transplanted rice is all fine ; but 
the very finest, named Basmati, does not exceed one-fourth of the whole, and is 
an .article for which at Calcutta there is always a very great demand. Next* to 
rice is wheat of an excellent quality, and then comes barley. About 24,000 
begahs were in 1811 under cultivation for cotton, but the quantity produced 
was very inadequate to the demands of the country, which is moa^y au|^^ed 



BAHAR.] OF BAHAR. 25y 

from the west, and with an inferior article. The cultivation of tobacco is not 
great, and that of indigo of very little importance, and much objected to by 
the zemindars. In 1811 only seven factories remained, and these were not 
prosperous. The cattle of the cow kind are in every respect superior to those 
of Bengal. 

The rents here are heavy, usually amounting to one-half of the crop after 
deducting the expense of the harvest, and sometimes to nine-sixteenths ; but 
except in the cities of Patna and Gaya, or other large market places, the ashraf, 
or high ranks, pay no rent for the ground occupied by their houses, nor can any 
landlord refuse to allot land for the purpose to any ashraf who requires it. The 
natives of the British isles, however, not being dignified with the title of ashraf, 
find great difficulty in procuring land to build on, and must always pay an extra- 
ordinary rent, a circumstance (as Dr. F. Buchanan observes) by no means the 
unusual practice with successful invaders. These ashraf consist of high castes, 
both Mahommedan and Hindoo, such as Seids, Patans, Moguls, Brahmins, 
Klietris, Rajpoots, Kayastas, and Vaisyas. Although the rents of land are 
much higher than further east, where some pay next to nothing, tlie generality of 
the people are in much better circumstances. The extent of land exempted from 
assessment to the revenue is enormous, and in 1801 was estimated by the 
collector as half the amount of those paying a land-tax, yet the last were 
reported to be in the best state of cultivation. Many of these rent-free portions 
are still large, but, owing to the established rules of succession, are fast frittering 
away into petty portions. This minute subdivision of property has reduced a 
great majority of the zemindars to the condition of meye peasants, just a stage 
above beggary. The profit on the assessed lands is supposed greatly to exceed 
ten per cent, indeed probably exceeds the whole amount of the revenue, (which 
in 1814 was 1,748,000 rupees,) yet the assessed lands up to 1811 had not 
become very saleable property, many of the lots put up to auction by the 
collector having for want of purchasers fallen into the hands of government, 
which tends to prove, that the settlement made by Lord Cornwallis is not a 
security even for the revenue which he rendered perpetual. The tricks, 
chicanery, and roguery, by which this apparently unaccountable predicament 
has been effectuated, would require, to detail them, a volume of most enormous 
dimensions, and when narrated, would put to the blush, conjointly and severally, 
all dm pettifoggers in Europe. 

The vills^es in Bahar usually consist of mud-walled houses closely huddled 
together, so as to render a passage through them on an elephant, or in a palanquin, 
impracticable ; but the district being very populous, and the inhabitants of 
a more gregarious disposition than further to the south and east, it contmns a 

von, I. L L 



258 the province [district or 

remarkable, number of considerable towns, of which (excluding Patna), the 
following are the most noted. Gaya, the residence of the judge and magistrate* 
(5,400 houses. 



Houses. 


Houses. 

Daudnagur contains 

. 8,000 

Baikantpoor . 

. . 2,000 

Bar 

. 5,000 

Tilarah . . . 

. . 2,000 

Dinapoor .... 

. 3,230 

Phulwari . . 

. . 1,700 

Bahar (town) . . 

. 5,000 

Maner . . . 

. . 1,500 

Nawada .... 

. 2,500 

Sherpoor . . 

. . 1,000 

Islamgunge . . . 

. 3,000 

Buniyadgunge . 

. . 1,200 

Phatuha .... 

. 2,000 

Sheikhpoorah . 

. . 1,000 


The number of smaller towns, from 100 to 500 houses, is astonishingly great, 
and their population may always be sufficiently exactly found by allowing at 
least five to a house. In 1811, the population of the district of Bahar, exclusive 
of Patna and the small jurisdiction attached to it, was estimated by Dr. Francis 
Buchanan to contain — 

Mahommedans 724,159 

Hindoos 2,030,991 

Total 2,755,150 

Within its limits there were formerly 86 mud forts or castles, and 29 are still 
occupied. These were built when the Maharattas levied contributions every two 
or four years, and when the zemindars decided all their disputes with the sword. 
In 1811, there were about 2,000 persons from this district in the British military 
service, the poor gentry of both religions (the ashraf) being hardy men of high 
spirit, and excellently adapted for soldiers. In 1801, Mehedi Ali Khan, the grand- 
son of Gholaum Hossein Khan, the historian, resided in this district. Slaves of 
the description called Nufur and Laundi are very numerous, often liberated, 
seldom sold, and frequently, owing to the poverty of their owners, left to find 
a subsistence for themselves. In Gaya, and some other places, slaves are 
occasionally sold, and formerly fetched a rupee for each year of their age until 
they reached twenty, when they attained their highest ralue ; but in general the 
price has recently greatly risen. Considisring how many large towns there are in 
this district, the number of prostitutes is very small, and the petty town of Run^- 
poor, with the small tract immediately adjacent, contains more than the immeiae 
city of Patna, with the territory attached to it ; indeed the character df ^ 
Baharians generally is of a superior description, when compared with their 
hours to the east and south. The convicts here, as in most other distriCta, are 
employed on the roads, which is in fact domg little more than making a - 



BASAR.] OF BAHAR, 259 

Agreeable to those who keep carriages, and next to nothing for the public, if the 
natives be considered as forming any part of it. 

The six great places of pilgrimage in this district are the river Punpun, Gaya, 
Rajagriha, Baikuntha on the Pangchane, Lohadanda near Giriyak, and Chyaban 
Muni ; but the two last are little frequented. In the division of Nawada, the 
sect of Jain have two places of pilgrimage ; one a tank choked up with weeds, 
especially of the Nelumbium. The temple stands on a small square island in 
it, and contains two stones, on each of which there is an inscription, and the 
representation of two human feet ; but no tradition exists from what cause its 
reputation for sanctity originated. The Mahommedan population has been esti- 
mated at 724,000, and occasionally still makes converts from the pagans, espe- 
cially by the purchase of slaves, who are usually treated with great kindness, 
but for want of money this mode of conversion proceeds slowly. The Shiah 
sect form but an inconsiderable portion of the whole, probably not exceeding 
3000 families, mostly of rank. The number of Bralimins is immense, 80,000 
families, most of whom have entirely betaken themselves to agriculture and 
arms ; and there are also a considerable number of Hindoos belonging to the sect 
of Nanock, the Seik lawgiver. The Jains, here called Shrawuks, amount to 
about 350 families. On the annual festival named Dewali, the Goalas or cow- 
herds, tie the feet of a pig, and drive their cattle over the wretched animal until 
it is killed, after which they boil and eat it ; but at other times do not use pork. 
On this occasion every rich man sends his cattle to assist in the ceremony, and 
poor men paint their cattle’s horns to make them look handsome. 

When the British took possession of this district, by far the greater part was 
in a wild state, and the southern half, after being repeatedly plundered by the 
Maharattas, had fallen into a predatory anarchy. The Mahommedan chief of 
tite tribe of Mayi, and the Rajas of Tickary, were the principal leaders in these 
dissensions, but being coerced by the British power, tranquillity was restored, 
and a more adequate land-tax imposed. At present most parts of the district 
are overflowing with population, and the whole would have probably been so* 
had not the very great extent of rent-free land tended in some divisions to en- 
courage sloth and negligence. In 1813, according to the report of the superin- 
tendent of police, the crime of gang robbery had nearly disappeared ; only one 
instance having occurred in the course of that year, and unattended with any 
aggravating circumstances. Burglary was of frequent occurrence, and no hopes 
ef^ctnally suppressing this crime were entertained, until the re-establishment 
villtge watchmen was organized. — (F. Buchanan, J, Grant, Tufton,^'c. ^c.) 

River (Sana, golden). -—The rivers Sone and Nerbuddah have their 
sources k the table land of Omeicuntuc. in ke province of Qundwana. The 

I. X. 2 



THE PROVINCE 


260 


[district op 


Sone rises on the east side, and flows through Pindarah, where, being joined by 
numerous other streams from the N.E. side of this mountainous territory, it pro- 
ceeds in a northerly direction through Sohagepoor and Bogalecund, whence turn- 
ing more to the eastward, it pursues its course towards the Ganges. According 
to the Bengal atlas, their junction formerly took place at Maner, but a tongue of 
land projecting east has been formed from the Shahabad district, so that Maner 
is now three miles above the confluence of the two rivers. This immense torrent 
forms the boundary between the districts of Shahabad and Bahar, for about 55 
miles of a direct line, from its mouth upwards ; and it is in general almost equal 
in size to the channel of the Ganges. After heavy rains the channel is almost 
filled, but does not overflow, and has a rapidity that scarcely admits of naviga- 
tion against the stream ; but during the rainy season, boats of 5 or 600 muunds 
pass the whole extent of the above two districts, and small boats of 20 maunds 
can pass the whole year. The channel of the Sone in the province of Bahar, is 
noted for the beauty of its pebbles and the superiority of its fish over those of the 
sacred and holy stream. Near its origin this river is said to be designated by the 
natives, the Sonabudda, to distinguish it from the Nerbuddah, by which, con- 
jointly with the Ganges, the triangular portion of Hindostan is insulated. — ( F. 
Buchanan, Blunt, S^'C.) 

Fulgo Riveu (Phalgu ). — ^This river is formed above Gaya by the union of 
two immense torrents, named the Mohane and Nilajan. The first enters the 
Bahar district from Ramghur, 20 miles S. E. from Gaya ; the last about 1 1 miles 
south from the same place. When it reaches the high and rocky shore of Gaya, 
the channel of the river, where free of islands, is about 500 yards broad, and when 
filled by the periodical monsoon, it rushes past that city with tremendous noise 
and velocity. It is usually said that the holy part of it, which extends about half 
a mile, occasionally flows with milk, but the whole stream is noted for itssanctity. 
— ( F. Buchanan, i^c.) 

Patna ( Padmavati). — A large city in the province of Bahar, of which it is 
the modern capital. Lat. 25® 37' N. long. 85® 15' E. This place is situated on 
the south side of the Ganges, which is here five miles wide during the rainy sea- 
son, and the eastern limits scarcely discernible. About the extremity of the 
suburbs at Jaifier Khan's garden, the Ganges divides into two branches, which 
surround a very large island, divided into 'two unequal portions, and about nine 
miles in length. The river here taking a bend to the south, the branch which 
goes tp the east of this island is by far the largest, but boats of any size can at 
all seasons pass through the western channel between the island and Phataha. 
This magnificent stream does not here perceptibly increase, until the Dusahara, 
which happens on the 10th day of the moon in the month of Jaishta, whidi is 
in fact, about the commencement of the periodical rains. ' 



BAHAR.] OF BAHAR. 201 

It is difficult to settle the boundaries of Patna. To exclude all beyond the 
wdls would reduce it to a trifle, while the suburbs are built in a very straggling 
ill deflned manner. Including the suburbs and Jaffier Khan’s garden, it compre- 
hends an extent of nine miles along the banks of the Ganges. The width from 
the borders of the river is on an average two miles ; but some part of the chan- 
nel of the Ganges, and of the islands opposite to the city, must also be consi- 
dered as belonging to this jurisdiction, so that on the whole an extent of 20 
square miles may be allowed. Within the walls, Patna is rather more than one 
mile and a half from east to west, and three-fourths of a mile from north to 
south ; the whole exceedingly closely built. Many houses are built of brick, 
more of mud with tiled roofs, but few are thatched. There is one street tole- 
rably wide, that reaches from the eastern to the western gate ; but it is by no 
means straight, or regularly built ; every other passage is narrow, crooked, and 
irregular. In the heats of spring, the dust is beyond idea, and in the rains every 
place is covered with mud. East of the city is a very large suburb called Ma- 
rusgunge, which contains many storehouses well built, but of very combustible 
materials, the whole of which are burned to the ground once in five or six years ; 
frequently oftener. Above the town is a long narrow suburb, through which the 
European houses are scattered, chiefly along the banks of the river ; but notwith- 
standing that this city is one of the chief European settlements in India, the 
seat of a court of appeal and circuit, of a city judge and magistrate, of a col- 
lector, a commercial resident, opium agent, and provincial battalion, the num- 
ber of European houses and settlers is surprisingly few. 

Patna was formerly fortified after the Hindostany manner, with a wall and 
small ditch, but these are now in the last stage of decay, and the gates tottering 
to their base. Neither are the bridges in a much better condition, being mostly 
in a ruinous state ; the one over the west ditch was repaired by Mr. David 
Ctflvin, at his own expense. The gates at the east and west ends of Patna are 
of no use, as the ramparts are demolished, and from their ruinous and dangerous 
state, were, in 1801, a disgrace to the city. The inscription on the gate of the 
fort, dated in the Hijera 1042, attributes its erection to Feroze Jung Khan. 
The jail is a large building but neither handsome nor strong, and the house near 
to it, occupied as the city court, is a strange looking place ; that of the court 
of appeal is a handsome modem building, but small. Many years ago the 
Company erected here a depot to contain rice, consisting of a building in the 
shape of a bee-hive, with two winding stair-cases on the outside, which have 
been ascended on horse-back. By means of these stairs it was intended the 
grain should be poured in at the top, there being a small door at the bottom to 
t8he it out. The walls at the bottom, although 21 feet thick, have given way, 



262 the province [district of 

a circumstance of very little consequence, as, were it filled, (which it never 
was), it would not contain one day’s consumption for the .province. In the 
middle of the city the Catholics have a church, the best looking in the place, 
although the whole flock only consists of about 20 families of native Portugueze. 
Near to it is the common grave of the British who were treacherously murdered 
in 17C3, by Meer Cossim, before his final overthrow. This massacre was per- 
petrated by the German adventurer, Somro (Summers), whose widow still 
makes a figure in Upper Hindostan, and immediately after the city was captured 
by the British army under the command of Major Adams. The grave is covered 
with an uncouth pillar, partly of stone and partly of brick, without inscription. 
There are many mosques, but none large ; some of them are now let by their 
owners as warehouses, especially the handsomest, built entirely of stone, and 
although the proprietor has thus debased his mosque, he perseveres strenuously 
in daily calling the faithful to prayers. 

Such are the vicissitudes of Indian cities, that Patna may now take rank in 
size and population before the ancient capitals of Delhi and Agra. According 
to Dr. Francis Buchanan, in 1811, it was estimated to contain 52,000 houses, 
of which 7117 were reported to be built of brick; 11,639 of two stones with 
mud walls and tiled roofs ; 22,188 mud-walled huts covered with tiles ; and the 
remainder mud- walled huts covered with thatch. If the investigations of the 
native police officers are to be relied on, six persons may with safety be allowed 
to a house, which would give a total population of 312,000, besides which, 
there is a very considerable fluctuating population, consisting of sepoys, camp 
followers, boatmen, &c. &c. Of the number above mentioned 97,500 were sup- 
posed to be Mahommedans, and 214,500 Hindoos. The extent of territory 
composing the small district attached to the city of Patna comprehends 403 
square miles, and . in 1811, the aggregate of population of the city and district 
was estimated at 199,745 Mahommedans, and 409,525 Hindoos; totat 609,270. 
The Seiks, or followers of Nanok, have here a place of worship of great repute, 
and several families of Armenians have long had a fixed residence at Patna. 
There are no regular schools or seminaries in which the Hindoo or Mahom* 
medan law is taught, students in these branches of knowledge being instructed 
by private tutors, and it was remarked by^he magistrates in 1801, that no new 
religious buildings of any sect were constructing, while the old ones were 
going rapidly to decay, 

Patna merchants export to Nepaul broad cloth, muslins, silks, 8pii»s, and 
Manihari goods, and bring in return bees wax, gold dust, buU taUs^ moski 
woollen cloth named Tush, and some medicmal herbs ; Nepaul native merchaota 
also trade to an equal extent. The whole Nepaul trade, however, does^iwH 



BAHAR.] 


OF BAHAR. 


263 


come this way, especially the timber from the lower provinces. In 1811, there 
were 24 bankers at Patna, who discounted all bills payable either at that town, 
or at Calcutta, Benares, and Moorshedabad. Some of them had also agents 
at Lucknow and Dacca, one had an agent at Nepaul, and the house of Juggeth 
Seth had agents at Bombay and Madras, and at all large towns under the 
British protection; but prior to the above date they had withdrawn their 
factories from places subject to independent native powers. Besides money 
transactions, some of them trade in European woollen cloths, jewels, foreign 
spiceries, metals imported by sea, and the fine kinds of cloth, of cotton, silk, 
and lace. Cash can always be procured here for Calcutta bank notes, some- 
times without discount, and never more than one per cent. In 1811, gold had 
almost wholly disappeared, although it had been the common currency, and 
cowries were scarcely cuiTent ; the only small coinage were copper pieces, of 
which 56 passed for a rupee. A large quantity of saltpetre is annually 
dispatched from hence to Calcutta for internal consumption and exportation. 
Chintzes and dimities of various kinds are manufactured here, and also cloths 
resembling diaper, and damask linen. 

The Patna division of the court of circuit comprehends the following 
districts, viz. 1, Ramghur; 2, Bahar; 3, Tirhoot; 4, Sarun; 5, Shahabad; 6, 
the city of Patna. In 1812-13 the police of the latter was reported by the 
superintendant to be in a very inefficient state, the large islands in the vicinity 
covered with grass jungle, affording a secure asylum to robbers. The city of 
Patna is of a shape apparently well adapted for the exercise of an effectual 
controul, as it consists of only one long street running through its entire extent, 
with lanes branching to the right and left ; and as the majority of these open at 
one end into the same street, through which alone they are connected with each 
other, a proper watch maintained in the great street would prevent nocturnal 
depredations to any great extent, unless collusion took place on the part of the 
native police officers. 

Travelling distance from Patna to Calcutta by Moorshedabad, 400 miles ; by 
Birboom, 340; distance from Benares, by Buxar, 156; from Delhi, 661; from 
Agra, 544; and from Lucknow, 316 miles. — (F. Buchanan, J. D. Douglas^ 
8sc. 

BL11.SAH. — A. town in the Bahar district, 20 miles S. S. E. from Patna. 


Lat 36* 18' N. long. 85“ 20' E. 

Jehastabad. — ^A town in the Bahar district, 33 miles S. by W. from Patna. 
Lat 26» 13' N. long. 82“ 6' E. 

Bah 4 r.-— T his city was at some remote period the capital of frie province, to 
it communicated its name; but it has since been superseded, first by 
imd afiterwfurds by Gaya, not Imvihg the coinm<»ckd conveniences of the 



264 the province [uffTAicT or 

first, nor the reputed sanctity of the last. Lat. 25® 13' N, long. 86® 36' E. 
35 miles S. E. from Patna. The existing town is a large scattered place, 
surrounding the ditch of an ancient city now in a great degree deserted. The 
most compact part is a long narrow bazar or street, paved in a rough manner 
with bricks and stones, but in every respect of a miserable appearance. Back 
from this street are some respectable looking houses, surrounded by brick 
walls, but intermixed with hovels. There are some mosques that have been 
tolerable buildings, but are now in a ruinous condition. It was reduced to its 
present state first by the Maharattas, who sacked it in the time of Aliverdi 
Khan, and secondly by the great famine of 1770, since which it has never 
recovered. It still, however, contains about 5000 houses, and a factory 
dependent on the opium agent at Patna. The immediate vicinity is uncom- 
monly fine, being supplied with many canals. A large extent is also irrigated 
by machinery, and under a constant succession of luxuriant crops. — C F. Bu- 
chanan, ^'C.) 

Sheikpoor (Shaikhpura ). — A town in the Bahar district, 50 miles S. E. firom 
Patna, lat. 25® 8' N. long. 85® 54' E. 

CoosERAH (Cusara ). — A town in the Bahar district, 48 miles S. E. from 
Patna, lat. 25® 6' N. long. 85° 47' E. 

Nawadah. — A town in the Bahar district, 54 miles S. S. E. from Patna, 
lat. 24® 54' N. long. 85® 40' E. 

Gaya (Gaya ). — ^This is the modem capital of the Bahar district, and is 
situated in lat. 24® 49' N. long. 85® E. 55 miles south from Patna. It consists 
of two parts ; one the residence of the priests, which is Gaya Proper, the 
other the residence of tradesmen and others, which having been very much 
enlarged and ornamented by Mr. Law, is now called Sahebg^nge. The old town 
of Gaya stands on a rocky eminence, between a hill and the Pulgo river, 
Sahebgunge stands on a plain, on the bank of the Fulgo, south from a hill named 
Ram Sila. Formerly between the two towns there was an open sandy space 
called the Rumnah, or chase, but the court houses have occupied a part of this, 
and the remainder is taken up by the houses and gardens of the few Europeans 
at the station. The streets in the quartet called Sahebunge are wide, perfectly 
straight, and kept in good order, although not paved, with a double row of 
trees, leaving in the middle a good road for carriages, and a fi>ot-way on 
each side. 

The old town of Gaya is a strange looking place, but its buildings are much 
better than those of the quarter named Sahebgunge, the greater part of the 
houses being of brick and stone, and many of them two or three stories hi||^. 
The architecture is very singular, with comers, turrets, and gaUeiies, ]>ro)c»tihg 



BAHA*.] OF BAHAR. 2g5 

with evBry possible irregularity. The streets are narrow, dirty, crooked, 
uneven, and encumbered with large blocks of stone, or projecting angles of 
. ruck. The reflection of the sun’s rays from the rocks by which it is encom- 
passed, and from the parched sands of the Fulgo, render Gaya uncommonly 
hot, and in spring it is obscured by perpetual clouds of dust. The two stations 
constituting Gaya, during Mr. Law’s magistracy, were found to contain 6000 
houses, and it is probable that at least 400 have since been added. The whole 
are full of population, for besides the genuine inhabitants, there are always 
many strangers on the spot, and the pilgrims and their followers often amount 
to several thousands. 

Respecting this celebrated place of worship there are many Brahminical 
legends, of which the following has the merit of being the shortest. Gaya, an 
Asoor, giant and infidel, by severe penance obtained divine favour, and subjugated 
the three worlds, heaven, earth, and hell, to his power. The demigods bereft of 
their dignity, implored the assistance of Vishnu, who entered into a long contest 
with the Asoor, but could not overcome him. The monster, however, was so 
well pleased with Vishnu’s prowess, that he promised to give him whatever 
blessing he should ask, and the latter in consequence requested him to descend 
into the infernal regions. The giant consented, but begged he might be pressed 
down by the foot of Vishnu, which was accordingly done, and the scene of action 
has ever since been reckoned sacred for the space of several square miles. Such 
is one of the Brahminical traditions ; but the Buddhists ascribe the sanctity of 
Gaya, to its having been either the birth-place or residence of their great prophet 
and legislator. The British government has an agent at Gaya, who levies a tax 
on each pilgrim according to the magnitude of the ceremonies he means to per- 
form. . One class visiting only one place pay 2. V rupees ; another visiting two 
places 3§ rupees ; a third visiting 38 places pay rupees ; and the fourth class 
visiting 45 places, 14i rupees. The duty to government, however, is but a smal] 
part of the pilgrim’s expense, for he is fleeced by the priests, not only of all the 
money he brings with him, but of promissory notes for future payments, which 
are sent after him when he returns home; the Gayawals, or priests of Gaya, main- 
taining emissaries for this purpose in the remotest parts of India which they also 
occasionally visit on speculation. The most numerous votaries are Bengalese 
and Maharattas, and some of the great chiefs of the latter have been known to 
expend fifty thousand rupees. 

When a pilgrim arrives, his Gayawal, or religious father, conducts him 
to the |>iurogah or superintending officer, and explains to him the ceremo- 
nies which the pilgrim is desirous of perfbiming, after which an order spe- 
edyn^ ftie names of toe pilgrim and Gayawal, as also of toe ceremonies c(mtem- 
plated, is nsade out and signed by toe collector. The duly is paid when ^ 



THE PROVINCE 


266 


[DirmicT OF 


order is delivered, and varies according to the number and nature of the rites to 
be performed. There are numberless regulations among the Gayawals for the 
internal management of the establishment, but the particulars have^ never been 
communicated to the public, although a translation or abstract would certainly 
prove curious and interesting. Formerly it was customary for the priest to keep 
the thumbs of the votary tied until he consented to give a sum considered pro- 
portionate to his circumstances ; but the British government has declared that 
all contributions shall be voluntary, and the collector of the duty or the magis- 
trate will, on complaint, compel the priest to perform his duty, and to accept 
whatever the pilgrim chuses to give. Persons from a distance are still much 
abused, but the checks imposed have rendered violence less practicable, and the 
introduction of the British police system so much confirmed their security that 
the number of these wanderers has been gradually increasing, as will appear 
from the following statement of the number of pilgrims who received licenses to 
worship at Gaya, from the 1st May 1797 to the 30th April 1798 — 17670. 


1799 

21,659 

1806 

23,291 

1800 

. 14,560 

1807 

33,831 

1801 

22,732 

1808 

32,423 

1802 

18,964 

1809 

27,952 

1803 

. 23,334 

1810 

27,454 

1804 

14,190 

1811 

31,114 

1805 

22,318 




Amount of the collection of the tax on pilgrims 

Rupees. Charges. Net receipts. 

In 1812-13 276,890 43,450 rupees 233,439 


1813-14 226,291 41,472 rupees 184,819 

l^cca rupees. 

The gross collections of 1815-16 amounted to 229.805 

Deduct. 

Charges of collection, &c. . . . . 7,321 

Charitable allowances, &c 2,530 

Donation to the native hospital at Calcutta . 1 1,000 

Proprietory share of Raja Miteijeet Singh, the 

zemindar on whose lands Gaya stands . 26,078 

46,929 


Net receipts 182, 87d 

It is usually supposed that the number of pilgprims and their attendwrif in 
ordinary years is not less than 100,000, but in times of peace, when viiit^ by 



“®**J OF BAHAR. 267 

ai.yof thegwMJWMreU.ciieft.ii.,, d,e number probably eaceed, 200 oon -i,. 

^ ^ thOT wMde for three month,. The number of crime, that 

orwnrete m the Bato distnet, of which Gaya is the capital, may in a erit 

The wWth th^ person, possess generally consists of money, jewels and 
other mude, winch excite the cupidity of the unprincipled, whUe L defend 
lee, condition of the greater number of these stragglers, exhibits it to them « 
prey of ^y acquisition. Numerous affrays and breaches of the peace may also 
be exited where such a number of strengers from all parts of ffindosS. a^ 

a7drn"rk"™^"*‘"' o of -perstiltTi^ 

^ M at the sanctuary (the Gayawals), who are in general both ignorint and 

co^I^r’ Zr of any aelf denial or asceusm of 

conduct— f'.T Buchanan. Harnngtm, Wanl. Archibald Selon,Ssc ) 

Buddha Gays -The ruins of Buddha Gaya aw situated a few hundred 
ymd, west from the NUajan river, in a plain of great extent, and now Isto 
mosUy of irregular heaps of brick and stone, with some traces of bavin, be^n 
formerly regularly arranged ; but immense quantities of the materials have been 
lemoved, and foe remainder are almost shapeless. The number of images scat- 
tered m-ound this place for 15 or 20 miles is astonishing, yet they appL all to 

ent p^s. Buddha Gaya was probably at one time the eentre of a religion 
“ Ponterful king ; but the sect of Buddha in its vicinity may b^ 
“.«»®pletely extinct, yet a few persons come occasiondly from 
fetot Muntnes to y«.t its ancient monuments. The most remarkable modem 
eMce is a convent of Sannyasies.— (F. Buchanan, ^-c.) 

““‘k »f ‘kn titer Ganges 
^ut ten miles west of Patna, lat. 25' dT N. long. 85" 5' E. The milifan! 

b^ga here are uncommonly grand, especially the barracks for European mb 
.eng w hich IS a m^iftcent and elegant structure. The officers have more 
^^odahon than m any barracks in England, and the private soldier, of foe 
wpments are provided with large and weU aired apartments. Many of 
^ of foe staff and others have built neat and commodious habitations 
foe vi tmuty, and foe grounds round them are weU laid out, with good roads 
crnitomnents. mui in foe neighbourhood, «. that foe 
»“»P«M ia greafly .upenor to that of Patnm In ISU. in diffeLt batan 

mm2 



268 THE PROVINCE [disthict or 

scattered within the cantonments were said to be 3,236 houses, and the markets 
aflFord many more comforts for Europeans than can be found in the great city 
adjacent. The island formed by the Ganges opposite to the cantonments of 
Dinapoor appears to have been carried away, and that which was the nituated 
east from it in the middle of the river, now in a great measure adheres to the 
southern bank. In the rainy season a passage still continues open, but in the fair 
season its upper end becomes perfectly dry, and boats can no longer reach the 
Company’s cloth factor)', situated on what was formerly the bank of the river. 
This island in 1.811 was six miles long, and where widest, about one broad. In 
this vicinity, potatoes arc cultivated to a great extent, and are consumed both by 
Europeans and natives ; the latter, not as a substitute for grain, but as a season- 
ing. — (F. Buchanan, i^c.) 

Moxeau. — A town in the Bahar district, situated at the junction of the Sone 
with the Ganges, and containing commodious cavalry barracks. Lat. 25® 39' N. 
long. 84” 52' E. 21 miles west from Patna, 

Bau. — A town of considerable trade in the -Bahar district, and of great ex- 
tent, but of mean appearance. It stands on the south bank of the Ganges, in 
lat. 25° 28' N. long. 85° 46' E. and, including Mansurgunge, is estimated to con- 
tain 5000 houses. 

Arval. — A town in the Bahar district, situated on the south-east side of the 
Sone river, 40 miles S. W. from Patna, Lat. 25‘ 15' N. long. 84“ 44' E. 

Daudnagur. — A large town in the Bahar district, situated on the east side 
of the Sone rivei, 30 miles S. S. W. from Patna. Lat. 25“ 5' N. long. 84° 26' E. 
This is a large place, and, including Ahmedgunge, is said to contain 8000 houses. 
It contains a cloth factory dependent on the commercial resident at Patna, and 
also a factor from the opium agent in that city . — ( F. Buchanan, i^c.) 

Mahabalipoou.— A small town in the Bahar district, situated on the east 
side of the Sone river, 35 miles S. W. from Patna. Lat. 25° 20' N. long. 84° 60'E. 
According to tradition, this was once a seat of Maha Bali’s, round which a town 
was formed . — ( WUford, S^c.) 

Tickauv (Ti)iuri ). — Tliis place contains about 500 houses, and is of modem 
construction, having been built in indtation of Sahebgunge, the European ptation 
of Gaya. Lat. 24° 58' N. long. 84“ 50' E. 50 miles S. W. from Patna. Tickary 
is only remarkable as being the residence of Raja Mitrajet, one of the vej^ few 
remaining wealthy zemindars in the Company’s old provinces ; and vkat Is stifl 
more unusual, one of the very few possessing common sense. The soil of this 
estate is, in general, poor, and requires much artificial watering; but1in,I8U, 
his clear income was estimated at £40,000 per annum ; an immense fnm in this 
cheap country. The fort has a substantial earthen rampart, witii btttlom fit for 



TmuooT.] OF BAHAR. 269 

guns, and a good wet ditch. The Tickary rajahs are military Brahmin chiefs, of 
the Domkatar tribe; and, until within the last century, the family lived in ob- 
scurity. The present raja has always shewn great attachment to the British 
government . — ( F. Buchanan, i^c.) 

Gow.— A town in the Bahar district, 52 miles S. S. W. from Patna. Lat. 
25* r N. long. 84" 45' E. 

SiiEEUCOTTA (Shir Ghat, the Lion Pass).— A small town and pergunnah in 
the Bahar district, 80 miles S. by W. from Patna, Lat. 24* 32' N. long. 84° 55' E. 

THE DISTRICT OF TIRIIOOT (Trihuta.) 

This district occupies the north-we.stcm corner of the Bahar province, and is 
situated principally between the 27th and 28th degrees of north latitude. To 
the north it is bounded by the jungle territories of Saptari, belonging to Nepaul ; 
to the south by the great Ganges ; on the east is the Bengal district of Purneah ; 
and on the west the district of Sarun. In 1784, Tirhoot was estimated to con- 
tain in all its dimensions, 5033 square miles ; but since that period it has been 
variously modified. By Abul Fazel, in 1582, it is described as follows ; — “ dr- 
ear Tirhoot, containing 74 mahals, measurement 260,404 begahs. Revenue 
19,179,777 dams. This Circar furnishes 700 cavalry, and 80,000 infantry.” 

Although not hilly, the surface of Tirhoot is more elevated, the soil drier, and 
the climate in general healthier, than those more to the south, yet during the 
summer the heat is intense. For agricultural purposes, it is plentifully sup- 
plied with water from various small rivers, and where these are not in existence, 
tanks and reservoirs have been constructed. In a particular quarter, embank- 
ments of considerable strength and elevation are necessary to contain the 
waters of the great G unduck river, which occasionally overflows these dikes, 
and inundates vast tracts of country from Kamoul to Hajypoor, sweeping away 
whole villages, with all their cattle, inhabitants, and woods. This district 
throughout, is in general well cultivated ; but in the north and south, tracts of 
waste land are found, contiguous to old zemindaries, which having remained in a 
state of nature and without occupant for many years, leave the boundaries of 
these estates undefined, and give rise to much litigation and frequent affrays. 
The cultivation of the soil has, notwithstanding, greatly advanced, since the first 
year of the decennial settlement of the land revenue, and continues progressively 
tb increase ; much waste being annually reclaimed and brought under tillage, or 
converted into pasture. The most valuable exportable commodities produced 
are sugar, indigo, saltpetre, opium, tobacco, pawn, turmeric, ginger, and rice. 
T^ards the northern fix)ntier there are extensive forests, but no supply of tim- 
deserving of note can be procured for want of depth of vrater in the rivers 



270 the province [district ot 

Could this remedied, large quantities might be obtained. The principal 
rivers are the great Gunduck (a boundary one), the Bhagmati, and the Goggary. 

In 1802, the cultivated lands were supposed to bear the proportion of three 
to two uncultivated, but the last probably includes land under fallow; and the 
produce .of the rent-free lands, the proportion of 1 to 4 of those paying revenue* 
to government ' the cultivation of both appeared on an equality. In 1814, the 
jumma, or land assessment to the revenue, amounted to 1,234,680 rupees, and, 
the abkarry to 40,037 rupees. The saline composition named Khan, is manu- 
factured in considerable quantities, not far from the Ganges, about 8 miles east 
of Singhea. The saline earth from which this is made, is called Reher, and ef- 
floresces in several pergunnahs in the districts of Tirhoot and Saimn, and is 
scraped together and collected at the furnace. A little rice straw is then placed 
on the ground, and covered with saline earth to the thickness of about 4 inches. 
The straw is then burned, and the burned matter is covered with a foot of straw, 
and this straw is also burned, which process is repeated seven times ; after which, 
the heap is covered with some fire-wood, and burned. The burned saline 
matter is then dissolved in water and boiled. When the operation has suc- 
ceeded well, a whitish salt, in grains, is procured, which is given to cattle ; 
when it does not succeed, a black salt is procured in a mass, from which an ex- 
cellent purging salt may be extracted. 

At present there are no brick or mud forts, nor is any species of fortification 
to be seen, or any remarkable public building, if we except the jai^ which is al- 
ways the most conspicuous ornament of a Bengal district, and generally well 
populated. During Lord Minto’s administration in 1811, it was proposed in 
council to establish a Hindoo college at Bhowra, in Tirhoot, which had always 
been a hot-bed of superstition, upon the plan of the institution at Nuddea, in 
the Bengal province. The establishment was intended to consist of 2 pundits 
at 100 rupees per month each, and 10 pundits at 60 rupees per month ; the 
whole annual expenditure, including the library, stationary, and prizes, not 
exceed the sum of 12,472 rupees. The highest prize was fixed at 800 rupee* ; 
the second 400 ; the third 200 ; and the fourth 100 rupees ; and for the good 
scholars an honorary dress, consisting of a <^oth of little value. 

On account of its natural advantages in soil and climate, this district was ori- 
ginally selected by the British government as an eligible station for im|Mroving 
the breed of horses in their territories; the aboriginal race of Bengal being 
the most contemptible description, and scarcely larger than mastifih. A low 
and marshy soU seems uncongenial to the nature of this most noble animal, whlc^ 
there degenerates immediately, while it appears to thrive in arid tracts alnrtrit. 
destitute of water. Many horses, of the first quality, have been reared in 



TiRHooT.] OF BAHAR. 271 

Hajypoor division of this district, and horse dealers from Upper Hindostan at- 
tend the fairs to purchase them. A considerable number are also annually ob- 
tained at the Government stud, for mounting the King’s and Company’s cavalry, 
besides those reared by the zemindars and others, throughout the country. 

Tivabhucti, corrupted into Tirhoot, was, in the remote eras of Hindoo antiquity, 
a component part of Maithila, an ancient division of India, which comprehended 
a great proportion of three districts, (Tirhoot, Pumeah, and Sarun) at present 
^under the British government, and also part of the adjacent territory possessed 
by the Nepaulese. The limits of the whole were the Gunduck and Cosa rivers, 
and the Nepaul mountains ; and within these territories a distinct dialect was 
spoken, still named the Maithila or Trihutya. During the wars of the Ramayuna, 
its sovereign was named Janaca, whose daughter, the far-famed Seeta, espoused 
the great Rama, whose exploits are narrated in that mythological poem. 
Tirhoot appears to have continued an independent Hindoo principality until 
A. D. 1237, when it was invaded by Toghan Khan, the Mahommedan governor 
of Bengal, who extorted a large sum of money from the Raja, but did not 
retain possession of the territory. It was finally subdued about A. D. 1325, by 
the Emperor Allah ud Deen, who annexed it to the throne of Delhi. Along 
with the rest of the province it devolved to the British government in 1765, but 
was not permanently assessed for the revenue until 1794. In 1801, when the 
population returns were ordered by the Marquis Wellesley, the inhabitants 
within the jurisdiction of the magistrate of this district were estimated at 
2,000,000, in the proportion of 1 Mahommedan to 4 Hindoos. The principal 
towns are Hajypoor, Singhea, Durbunga, and Mowah. 

In 1814, the general controul exercised by the magistrate over the police 
stations was considered as efficient as the great extent of the district and 
immense population would admit. Crimes of enormity were not frequent, nor 
were burglary and the lesser offences of frequent recurrence, although from the 
recent institution and augmented vigilance of the village watchmen, a com- 
parative increase appeared in the official reports. — (J. Grant, Cokbrooke, F. 
Buchanan, Stewart, 4'c. 

Gunduck River (Gandaki, or Saigrami ). — ^The source of this river is 
Bupposed to lie near the enormous peak of Dhawala Giri, or the white mountain, 
supposed to be 27,000 feet above the level of the ocean, and situated about 
lat, 29* 30' N. long. 83* 45' E. Another conjecture fixes its origin in the table 
land eff Tibet, not for firom that of the Brahmaputra, which if correct, would give 
it a course of about 450 miles, including curvatures, until its junction with the 
Oat^jes, nearly opposite to Patna. The Gunduck in its early course is called 
the $aignmi, fixim the schistous stones, containing the remains or traces of 



272 THE PROVINCE [orsTRicx or 

ammonites, found in the bed of the river, and thence carried to all parts of 
India, where they are worshipped under the name of Salgrams. They are 
mostly round, and comihonly perforated in one or more places by worms ; the 
spiral retreats of antediluvian molluscas being taken by the superstitious Hindoo 
for visible traces of Vishnu. Common salgrams are about as large as a watch, 
and they are valued according to their size, shape, and internal construction. 
The price varies according to circumstances, some being valued so high as 
2000 rupees. In one of the Hindoo legends, the following narrative is found, 
explanatory of their original consecration. 

Vishnu, as the preserver, created nine planets to regulate the destinies of the 
human race. Sani (Saturn) commenced his reign by proposing to Brahma, that 
he (Brahma) should submit to his influence for 12 years. Brahma referred him 
to Vishnu ; but he was equally averse to the baleful influence of this planet, 
and therefore desired him to call next day. On Saturn’s departure, Vishnu 
meditated, how he could escape the misery of a twelve years subjugation to 
so inauspicious a luminary, and the result was, that he assumed the form of a 
mountain. Next day, Saturn was not able to find Vishnu, but soon discovered 
that he had become the mountain Gandaki, into which he immediately entered, 
having assumed the form of a worm, called bajra kita (the thunderbolt worm), 
and began to perforate the stones of fhe mountain, and in this manner he 
persevered in afflicting the animated mountain for the space of twelve years. 
At the end of this probation the deity resumed his own form, and directed that 
the stones of the mountain Gandaki should be in future worshipped. On being 
asked by Brahma how the genuine stones might be distinguished, he said they 
would have 21 marks, the same number as were on his body. Since the above 
era, the Salgrams of the Gunduck have been held in great estimation, and 
during the hot months, the Brahmins suspend a pan perforated with a hole, 
through which the water drops on the stone, and keeps it cool, and being 
caught below in another pan is, in the evening, drank with great satisfactioB by 
the devout of that faith. The Brahmins sell these stones, but trafficking in 
images is reckoned dishonourable. 

Besides salgrams, some few grains ot gold are occasionally separated from dm 
sand of the Gunduck, and also from the substance of the salgrams^ which on 
trial have been foimd not to be calcareou.s. In northern Hindostan the term 
Gunduck is a general appellation for a river ; and Major Rennell conjectures it 
to be the Condochates of Arrian. The stricter classes of Hindoos abstain Atom 
swimming in this river, it being forbidden in their sacred books.—fCbfekmfe, 
Ward, Kirkjpatrick', Rennell, Wiiford, i^,) V 

HAjrrooa. ^The town and district of Hajypoor are now compfdMsded 



TtRBoov.] OF BAHAR. 273 

withlti the jurisdiction of Tirfaoot, and axe situated principally about the 25th 
degree of north latitude. By Abul Fazel, in 1582, the Hajypoor division is 
described as containing *‘11 mahals; measurement 436,952 begahs; revenue 
27,331,030 dams.” 

The country adjacent to the town of Hajypoor is fertile, and well cultivated, 
and the whole district, when measured by Major Rennell in 1784, contained in 
all its dimensions 2782 square miles. The soil is peculiarly productive of 
saltpetre, and it is from hence, and the adjacent division of Sarun, that the 
greater part of that article intended for the Company’s investment is procured. 
The town of Hajypoor is situated on the north-east side of the Ganges, at its 
confluence with the Gunduck, nearly opposite to Patna. Lat. 25“ 41' N. 
long. 85" 21' E. In the month of November an annual horse fair is held in its 
vicinity, and the demand for horses reared in the British provinces appears to be 
annually increasing. In 1807, the whole number of horses exposed at the fidr 
amounted to nearly 6000, two of which from the Company’s stud sold for 4000 
rupees each. At the annual fair of 1816, the shew of cattle indicated a great 
improvement of the breed within the districts under the influence of the stud, 
and a large batch of zemindary colts and fillies were purchased by the officers 
of the stud on government account. — ( J. Grant, ^’c. ^c. ^c.J 

Bukrah. — A town in the Tirhoot district, 32 miles N. from Patna. 
Lat. 26" 4' N. long. 85“ 10' E. 

CoiLLE. — A town in the Tirhoot district, 48 miles N. by E. from Patna. 
Lat. 26<» 25' N. long. 85" 40' E. 

SiNGHEA. — ^This town is situated on the east side of the river Gunduck, 
about 17 miles north from the city of Patna. Lat. 25® 52' N. long. 85" 15' E. 

Near to Singhea is the site of an ancient city, where a remarkable pillar 
stands; and two days journey up the Gunduck river, near a place called 
Kesserah, is a remarkable edifice^ which appears to have been originally a 
cylinder placed on the frustrum of a cone, for the purpose of being seen at a 
distance. Both the cone and cylinder are of brick, and appear solid throughout. 
— (Burrow, 8^0.) 

Persaumah (Parasu Rama ). — ^A town in the Tirhoot district, 90 miles 
E. N. E. from Patna. Lat. 26" T N. long. 86" 38' E. 

Durbuxgah (Durhhanga). — k town in the Tirhoot district, 56 miles N. E. 
from Patna. Lat. 26® 9' N. long. 85" 56' E. 

Jenjapoor. — ^A town in the Tirhoot district, 80 miles Ni E. from Patna. 
Ut. 26" 14' N.'long. 86" 20' E. 

Naoorbusst ( Nagarabashi ). — A town in the Tirhoot district, 42 miles 
N, E. fi^m Patna, Lat. 25" 53' N. long. 85" 51' E. 

vot. I, N N 



-274 THE PROVINCE [disthict of 

Mowah. — A town in the Tirhoot district, 87 miles E. from Patna. 
Lat. 25'^ 34' N. long. 85* 60' E. 

Lokohar. — A small town in the Tirhoot district, 102 miles N. E. from 
Patna. Lat. 26* 30' N. long. 86* 32' E. 

THE DISTRICT OF SARUN (Sarana, an Asylum). 

This district belongs to the Bahar province, is situated about the 26th 
degree of north latitude, and now comprehends the district named Bettiah, or 
Chumparun. To the north it is bounded by Goracpoor and Muckwanpoor; on 
the south by the Ganges; to the east it has Tirhoot, and on the west the 
Dewah, or Goggrah river. In 1784, according to Major Rennell’s mensuration, 
Sarun and Bettiah contained 5,106 square miles, of which area the particular 
portion distinguished by the name of Sarun comprehended 2,560 square miles. 
So late as 1810, a small fraction of this district continued on the south side of 
the great Ganges, immediately above the Dinapoor cantonments; a geographical 
irregularity, which probably has since been rectified. By Abul Fazel in 1582, 
this district is described as follows: “ Circar Sarun, containing 17 mahals; 
measurement 229,052 begahs ; revenue 16,172,004 dams. This Circar furnishes 
1000 cavalry, and 50,000 infantry.” 

The Sarun division, for its dimensions, is one of the most prosperous in the 
British dominions, and has for a long period been in the highest sUite of 
cultivation. The land is plentifully supplied with moisture from two large 
rivers, the Ganges and the Gunduck, besides numerous smaller streams, and 
the soil under tillage yields abundantly all the richest productions of the east. 
It consequently contains scarcely any waste or jungle, so that the inhabitants 
are under the necessity of sending their cattle into other quarters to graze. 
Circar Chumparun, or Bettiah, has not been so fortunate, as it suffered severely 
during the great famine of 1770, when almost half the inhabitants are supposed 
to have perished. Besides this, the zemindars of Chumparun having for many 
years been deprived of their lands, which were leased to ignorant and rapacious 
farmers of the revenue, experienced such ojjpression, that the majority of the 
population which survived the famine, were obliged to abscond, leaving the 
country almost a desert. Since that melancholy epocha, the zemindars have 
been re-established by the decennial settlement, many of the ancient inhabitants 
have returned, and cultivation has been prosecuted. 

The-Bettiah division is situated at the northern extremity, and in 1784, when 
annexed to Chumparun, the aggregate area of both was 2646 square miles ; 
and it is remarkable, that it was never properly subjugated, until after the 
acquisition of the dewanny by the Company in 1766. The chief towns are 



OF BAHAR. 


SARUN.] 


275 


Bettiah, Boggah, and Maissy; and the principal river the Gunduck, on the 
banks of which, and indeed all over the pergunnah, large timber trees for ship 
building are procured, and firs for masts. The agricultural productions of the 
Sarun division are of a more valuable description, consisting of opium, tobacco, 
wheat, barley, flax, peas, linseed, and a small quantity of cotton. The breed 
of cattle are also excellent, and the bullocks equal to the government standard 
for the ordnance department, in which respect, and for the table, they are only 
rivalled by those of Gujerat. It is remarkable that the natives in the adjoining 
districts should never have attempted to improve their own breed of cattle to 
the same degree of excellence. The cultivation of the district generally, is 
admitted to have increased since the decennial settlement of the land revenue, 
and in 1801 was estimated by the collector at one-fourth of the whole, which is 
probably too great a proportion. The rent-free lands were then computed to 
be one-tenth of the whole, but those liable to revenue were in the best state of 
cultivation. In 1801, only two zemindarics of any magnitude were held by 
persons professing the Mahommedan faith, that religion not appearing to have 
ever attained a predominance in this quarter of the province. In 1814, the 
jumma, or land assessment to the revenue, amounted to 1,140,500 rupees, 
and the abkarry to the large sum of 92,825 rupees. 

There are few articles of trade manufactured in Sarun, and European mer- 
chants never found the cloths manufactured here to suit that distant market. 
The principal mercantile commodity is saltpetre, a great part of that used 
throughout Bengal, and exported to Europe, being the production of Sarun. 
Government have two factories ; one for the provision of cloth of a particular 
description, and the other for collecting saltpetre on the Company’s account. 
Good roads are much wanted, as the commercial transactions of the merchants 
who trade from the south and east to Benares, Oude, and Nepaul, would be 
greatly facilitated if highways w'ere made and kept in order, from Hajypoor to 
the Goggra river, from Chuprah to the frontiers of Nepaul, and frorp Maissy to 
Durouly. Almost every village had formerly a mud fort belonging to it, to_ 
which the inhabitants resorted when attacked by their neighbours. The 
remains of these are still visible, but in a most ruinous condition. There is not 
a bridge in the whole district ; neither is there any institution where the Hindoo 
or Mahommedan law is taught. In every large village there are schools where 
Hindoo children are instructed in reading, writing, and accounts, for which the 
parents pay a weekly stipend to the teacher. In 1801, when the Marquis 
Wellesley issued his statistical queries, the judge and collector each returned 
their estimates of the population, which agreed in the aggregate of 1,200,000 
for tlie total number of inhabitants. But a prodigious discrepancy appeared 

V K 2 



276 


THE PROVINCE 


f»»TElCT OP 


, • ..rtiv, estimates of the proportion which the MahontiDedaiu bm to 
m their resi one in 500, and 

land, that is navigable, the name implying a country of boats; but by the 
Nepaulese the term is applied to tlie part of their kingdom situated on. tlie great 
plain of Hindostan. The British portion of the Terriani is principally compre- 
hended m the Sarun district, and is a flat uninteresting tract, in some parts bare 
of trees, but generally covered with a rank vegetation. Rice is the principal 
produce, and herds of cattle are scattered over the country, which in the dry 
season abounds with game, but during the rains these are obliged to seek shelter 
on the higher, grounds. Such is the country to the edge of the forest, which 
borders the base of the mountains, from which the wild elephants issue at 
night, and commit depredations on the neighbouring rice fields. 

The Nepaulese Terriani is a belt of much greater extent, and in general about 
20 miles in breadth. In this space there are a few small hills scattered, and 
much poor high land overgrown with trees and bushes of little value, but there is 
also a very large proportion of rich land, and on the whole the soil is much better 
than in the adjacent parts of the British territories ; but being less cultivated 
abounds more with wild beasts, such as elephants and rhinoceroses. The breed 
of the former is of an inferior description, and in general has a toe of one of its 
feet much lengthened, which gives it an unseenaly appearance. In the ,wet 
season the elephants retire to the lower ranges of hills, but in the dry season 
they issue forth and prove very destructive to the crops. These incursions pre- 
vent the natives from being so attentive to the rice cultivation as they would 
otherwise be, so that although the surface of the Nepaulese Terriani is best 
adapted for that grain, the farmers rely chiefly on winter crops of wheat, barley, 
and mustard. Tigers are not so numerous as might have been expected ; black 
bears of a large size are very troublesome ; wild hogs, hog deer, hares, foxes, 
and jackals are to be found in abundance. 

In the waste lands of the Nepaul^ Terriani, the most common trees are the 
palas (erythina monosperma), and the simul (bombax heptaphyUum), but by 
far the greater proportion of these wastes is covered with long grass or reeds, 
which are burned once a year, in order to clear the country and improve the 
pasture. Owing to the moisture and coolness of the air, the fields at all seasons 
preserve some verdure ; but the grass seems to be of a very bad quality, as the 
cattle, although plentifolly supplied with it, are to the last degree inretdtod:'*-’ 
yet Iturge herds are sent into these wastes from the British districts adjaciHit. tbe 



Uliuii.] OF BAHAR. ^77 

wl>ol0 tract is intersected with numerous small streams, which not only answer 
the purposes of irrigation, but when swollen by the rains become navigable, and 
enable the £umer to send the produce of his fields to a distant market, as well 
as to float down the valuable timber that skirts the lower ranges of hills. 

Before the Nepaulese con(][uest in this quarter, the petty Rajas who governed 
its different portions were so much afraid of their neighbours, that tliey did not 
promote the cultivation of this low tract ; but on the contrary rather encouraged 
the extension of the woods, contenting themselves with its produce in timber, 
elephants, and pasture. Even then, however, many rich spots were occupied, 
and very productive, but they were so buried among the jungle as to escape 
observation. The Nepaulese, being more confident in their own strength, have 
cleared much of the country, although a great deal remains still to be done. Even 
now they export a great quantity of grain, and were property somewhat more 
secure, the territory is capable of yielding considerable resources. The tobacco 
produced is said to be uncommonly good, and the reddish cotton wool to be 
tiiriving. The climate is considerably cooler and moister than in the vicinity of 
Patna, and the hot winds, according to report, are almost a month later than at 
that city. About the 1st of April, however, the country becomes very unhealthy, 
good water for drinking scarce, and until the setting in of the cold season the 
people are very subject to fevers and disorders in the bowels, which by the 
natives of Nepaul are attributed to the ayul, or a poisonous air, which many of 
them imagine proceeds from the breath of large serpents, supposed to inhabit 
the forests of the northern mountains. The existence of such sei-pents in any 
considerable numbers, is worse than doubtful, and the unhealthiness of the 
climate may be accounted for from the quantity of vegetable putrefaction, 
stagnmit water, and similar causes. 

On the conclusion of hostilities in 1815, the Bengal government at first deter- 
mined to insist on the entire cession of the Nepaulese Terriani, or low lands; 
but the experience of a season s occupation of a considerable portion, proved . 
them of little profit as to revenue and of extremely difficult management, 
while the climate was so destructive as to render the continuance of troops, or 
civil officers for one half of the year, utterly impracticable. As a politic act of 
conciliation, the Terriani was in consequence restored to the Nepaulese at the 
conclusion of the campaign, in lieu of certain pensions to the chief Gorkha 
leaders, which had been before in contemplation. This was accordingly carried 
into execution, with the exception of that portion of the Terriani which skirted 
the Oude dominions, which was specially reserved, and along with a jungly per- 
gmmtih east of the Goggra, valuable to the nabob foom its situation, was ceded to 
that potentate in extinction of one of the two crores of rupees which had bedn 



273 THE PROVINCE [district of 

obtained from him during the war. — (F. Buchanan, Public MS. Documents, 
Kirkpatrick, ^r.J 

CiiupBAH. — The capital of the Sarun district, and stands on the north side 
of the Ganges, 32 miles W. N. W. from Patna. Lat. 25“ 46' N. long. 84“ 46' E. 
This is a town of little breadth, but extending along the Ganges for nearly a 
mile. In 1817, it contained 8,700 families, which at five persons to a family 
would give 43,500 inhabitants. 

In the vicinity of Chuprah the Kharwa tribe are numerous. They occasionally 
fish and carry the palanquin, but are mostly cultivators. They migrate from 
hence to Calcutta, Patna, and Benares, and at Calcutta are distinguished by the 
name of Patna bearers, while in their own country they are mostly labourers of 
the soil. Although domesticated here, their original country is said to be in 
the neighbourhood of an old fortress called Khayra, which is in the district of 
Chuta Nagpoor. According to Hindoo notions they are an impure tribe, 
although they have abandoned many customs to which they are addicted in 
their original country. 

On the 2d of May, 1757, Major Coote (afterwards Sir Eyre) reached this 
place in pursuit of a French corps under Mr. Law, being the earliest advance of 
the British forces in this quarter. He was not successful, but Mr. Law and his 
party were afterwards taken prisoners by General Camac, on the 15th of 
January, 1761, after a victory obtained over the Shahzada (the Mogul emperors 
son), who very soon surrendered himself without stipulation or condition. — 
C F. Buchanan, ^c.) 

Manjee. — A town m the Sarun district, situated at the confluence of the 
Ganges and Goggra, 44 miles N. W. from Patna. Lat. 25“ 49' N. long. 84* 35' E. 
There is a custom-house established here where boats ascending or descending 
these two rivers undergo an examination. Near to Manjee is a remarkable 
banyan or burr tree, of which the following are the dimensions. Diameter from 
363 to 375 feet; circumference of the shadow at noon 1,116 feet; circumference 
of the several stems, fifty or sixty in number, 921 feet. Formerly under this 
tree sat a naked fakeer, who had occupied that station .25 years ; but he did not 
continue there throughout the whole year ; for his vow obliged him to lie, durii^ 
the four cold months, up to the neck in the Ganges. 

Hoseepoor.— A town in the Sarun district, 82 miles N, W, from Patna. 
Lat. 26“ 25' N. long. 84“ 17' E. 

Sewax (or Alligunge ). — A town in the Sarun district, 66 miles N. W. from 
Patna. I^t. 26* 11' N, long. 84*25'E. In this vicinity an infiermr sort criT 

crockery is made in imitation of Staffordshire ware, from a tpeciet of Mack 

potter’s marie 



suAUABAD.] OF BAHAR. 279 

Manjaulv.— -A town in the Sarun distriot, 69 miles N. W. from Chuprak. 
Lat. 26* 17' N. long. 84' E. 

Hatcoul. — ^A town in the Sarun district, 80 miles N. from Patna. Lat. 
26* 42' N. long. 85* 28' E. 

Lowvah. — A town in the Sarun district, 19 miles S. E. from Bettiah. 
Lat. 26* 34' N. long. 84* 49' E. 

Carnoul (Gandanur ). — A toum in the Sarun district, 48 miles N. by W. from 
Patna. Lat. 26* 17' N. long. 86* 4' E. 

Maissy (Mahesi ). — A town in the Sarun district, 62 miles N. from Patna. 
Lat. 26® 21' N. long. 85“ 10' E. 

Bettiah (Bhattia, named also Chumparun ). — This town stands about 90 miles 
N. N.W. from Patna, and although at one time the chief town of a district, 
never attained any considerable magnitude. Lat. 26* 47' N. long. 84* 40' E. 

Boo o ah. — This town stands on the east side of the Gunduck river, about 120 
miles N .N.W. Lat. 27® 4' N . long. 84* 13' E. A great tract of country to the north 
of this place is still covered with primeval forests, from which excellent timber for 
ship-building is procured, and floated down the Ganges and Gunduck to Calcutta. 

SuGOULV. — ^This town stands on the south side of the Boori Gunduck river, 
which has its source in the neighbourhood of Somaisir, and is navigable during 
the greater part of the year for boats of considerable burthen, as high up as 
Sugouly. 


THE DISTRICT OF SHAHABAD. 

A large district in the province of Bahar, situated about the 25th degree of 
north latitude. To the north it is bounded by the course of the Ganges, on the 
south and east by that of the Sone, and on the west by Chunar in the province of 
Allahabad. In 1784, the original Circar of Shahabad contained only 1,869 
square miles ; but it has since been greatly augmented by incorporations from 
the adjacent territories. This district is extremely fertile, and in general popu- 
lous ; but towards the south west it still contains many tracts of waste land. In 
1801, the proportion which the uncultivated land bore to the cultivated was 
estimated by Ae collector as one to four, exclusive of the hills which form the 
southern boundary ; but the accuracy of most of the returns given in at that 
lime cannot be depended on, not being the result of actual investigation, but in 
most cases of mere conjecture. The district was then (in 1801) described by the 
public functionaries, as being in a progressive state of improvement, the cultivation 
having been extended very considerably subsequent to the decennial settlement 
of (he land revenue. The zemindar’s profit was then computed to amount to 40 
percent, on the land-tax, which in 1814 yidided 1,128,615 rupees; the alduurry 



280 the province [district ow 

or excise ''being 48,947 rupees. By the diligence of the revenue officers some 
lands have been discovered in Shahabad, not included in the revenue settlement 
above mentioned, but the extent is not great. In general the lands paying the 
land-tax are the best cultivated. 

The most valuable articles of agricultural produce are opium, tobacco, cotton, 
sugar, indigo, and hemp, and the cultivation of all (especially of sugar) was 
considered to be gradually increasing. The district contains no brick or mud 
private forts, nor are there any schools or seminaries within its limits where the 
Hindoo or Mahommedan laws are taught. In 1801, in consequence of instruc* 
tions from the Marquis Wellesley, then Governor-General, the board of revenue 
in Bengal circulated various queries on statistical subjects to the collectors of 
the different districts under that presidency. The Jesuit of their returns tended 
to establish the fact, that Shahabad contained two millions of inhabitants, in the 
proportion of one Mahommedan to twenty Hindoos ; and it is very much in 
favour of their general good conduct, that only one instance of gang robbery 
appeared on the calendar throughout the whole of 1813. — f J. Deane, Cokbrooke, 
J. Shakespear, ^c.) 

Arrah. — This is the principal town of the Shahabad district, and is both 
extensive and populous, but we have no accurate returns of the number of inha* 
bitants it contains. Lat. 25® 35' N. long. 84® 40' E. 35 miles west from Patna. 

Bux AR ( Bagsar ). — A. town in the Shahabad district, situated on the south 
east side of the Ganges, lat. 25® 35' N. long. 83® 57' E. 58 miles E. N. E. from 
Benares. The fort here, is of considerable size, and cuuimands the Ganges, 
but it is now dismantled, nor is there a single fortified place between Calcutta 
and Allahabad. Every boat passing up and down the Ganges is obliged to come 
to at this place, and produce a pass ; every traveller by land does the same, the 
police being very strict. 

A celebrated victory was gained here in October 1764, by the British forces 
under Major, afterwards Sir Hector Munro, over the united armies of Shuja ud 
Dowlah and Cossim Ali Khan. The British army consisted of 856 Europeans, 
and 6,215 Sepoys, of whom 87 Europeans and 712 Sepoys were killed and 
wounded ; the combined troops were computed at 40,000 men, 2,000 of whom 
are supposed to have been slain in the battle. The Bight of the allies was so 
rapid that that they did not stop at Buxar, but hastened to a nullah or small 
river beyond it, which being very full, many were drowned and slaughtered in 
attempting to pass. The plunder was very great as they left their tents standing; 
and their whole trmn of artillery, consisting of 133 pieces of various sizes, were 
taken. A native historian (Gholaum Hossein) describes the cainp of th® two 
chiefs while advancing, in the following terms : “ A bridge (rf boats being thrown 



SHAHABAO.] OF BAHAR. 

over tKe Ganges, the allied annies begun their march in numbers not to be reckoned; 
but from the ignorance of the generals, and want of discipline, murdering and 
plundering each other. It was not an army but rather a moving nation.” 

Travelling distance from Benares 70 miles ; from Calcutta by Moorshedabad 
485, by Birboom 408 miles.— ('Xorrf Valentia, Forster, RenneU, 

Dunoy. — A to^vn in the Shahabad district, 68 miles S. W. from Patna. Lat. 
25^ 10' N. long. 81® 10' E. 

Sa'Sseram (Sahasram). — A town in the Shahabad district, 34 miles south 
from Buxar. Lat. 24® 58' Jf. long. 83® 58' E. Shere Khan, the Afghan, who 
expelled the Emperor Humayoon (the father of Acber) from Hindostan, was 
buried here, in a magnificent mausoleum, built in the middle of a great reservoir 
of water. The monument rises from the centre of the tank, which is about a 
mile in circumference, and bounded on each side by masonry ; the descent to 
the water being by a flight of steps now in ruins. The dome and the rest of the 
building is of a fine grey stone, at present greatly discoloured by age and 
neglect . — ( Hodges, S^'c.) 

Mooneer (Manir), — A small town in the Shahabad district, 42 miles E. by S. 
from Benares. Lat. 25® 12' N. long. 83* 40' E. 

Riiotas ( Rahatas). — A town and pergunnah in the Shahabad district, the most 
westerly of the Bahar province, being bounded in that direction by the Caram- 
nassa river. In 1784, the Rhotas territorial subdivision contained 3,680 square 
miles, of which only 2,000 were plain arable ground, the rest being hilly and 
much covered with jungle. By Abul Fazel in 1582, it is described as follows: 
“Circar Rhotas, containing 18mahals; measurement 473,340 begahs, revenue 
40,819,493 dams. This Circar furnishes 4,550 cavalry, and 162,000 infantry.” 

The fortress of Rhotas is situated on the level top of an extensive mountain, 
about 81 miles travelling distance S. E. from Benares. Lat. 24® 38' N. 83* 50' E. 
A. D. 1542, Shere Shah, the Afghan, took this fortress, until then deemed im- 
pregnable, by a very shallow stratagem, from Raja Chintamun, the last of a long 
dynasty of Hindoo sovereigns, who had for many centuries ruled this part of 
Hindostan, Shere Shah made it a depot for his family and treasure ; but after 
his d«ith it must have again reverted to the Hindoos, as in 1575, it was captured 
from a Raja of that feith by the Emperor Acber. For many years subsequent 
to tihe conquest of Bahar by the British, an opinion was very prevalent among 
the nativea, treasure to a large amount had been concealed in this vicinity, 
under ground, by Cossim Ali, or his agents, when compelled to evacuate 
the j^ytnee in 1764. Positive native testimony being produced as to ^e 
spot, search in 1813 was made, by orders from Calcutta, at the village of 
Teli<i(jtlio nea r Rhotas ; but nothing was found except 50 brass utensils, belonging 
von. I. oo 



THE PROVINCE 


sm 


[OMTEICT Of 


to a wi4ow of the deceased proprietor of the premises where the search was 
made. This unexpected discovery being notified to the supreme government 
the widow was desired to account for the locality of these brazen vessds, which 
she did by declaring, that she had buried them three years before that date, 
during an irruption of some plunderers into the district of Mirzapoor, which 
assertion, the appearance of the metal, and some other circumstances which need 
not be detailed, tended to confirm. — (Stewart^ Public MS. Documents, J. ChrmU 
4'c. ^c .) ' 


THE DISTRICT OF RAMGHUR (Ramaghara). 

A hilly and mountainous district, the jurisdiction of which, since it has been 
new modelled and extended, occupies the whole southern quarter of the Bahar 
province. To the north it is bounded by the district of Bahar Proper ; on the 
south by Jushpoor; Gangpoor, and Singboom; to the east it has Boglipoor, 
and Burdwan, and on the west Billounja, Sirgoojah, and Jushpoor. Besides the 
territory specifically named Ramghur, it now comprehends Palamow, Pachete, 
and Chuta Nagpoor, and a great part may be considered as properly belonging 
to the ancient Hindoo province of Gundwana. 

In 1784, Chuta Nagpoor, Palamow, and Ramghur, according to Major Ren* 
nell's mensuration, contained 21,732 square miles, of which 16,732 were nearly 
waste. 

A great proportion of this division is from its situation rocky and unproductive, 
and can never be brought into a populous or cultivated condition, unless great 
encouragement be held out to clear the hitherto impenetrate woods and fiut> 
nesses; and such is the uncivilized state of the district generally, that the 
natives cannot be expected to comprehend the laws by which they are governed. 
Commercial transactions are very insignificant, and confined mostly to the mm« 
interchange and barter of commodities for domestic consumption. The hills 
abound with iron, which is collected and fused by die natives in their rude 
manner, and is the principal article of exportation, but the want of navigable 
rivers is a great obstruction to the extension of this traffic. Cultivation on the 
whole is improving, and barley has bqen introduced among the hill inhabitants 
since the British conquest. Within tie Ramghur jurisdiction there are tW® 
roads of importance. The first is the great military road, i^diich extends firom 
Assoonsur to Barroon, on the banks of the Sone, 246 miles, and is usually 
repaired at the expense of government ; the other is one firom Sheregotty, which 
joins the abovementioned great military road at Konnah Chitty. On the mlBtaiy 
road there were formerly from 30 to 40 bridges, but most of them Imye trteii 
swept away by the flo^. There are many old brick fiats in 



ftAMOHViu] OF BAHAR. ^83 

destractioii of 'which was recommended by the magistrate at an early period of 
the British domination, as they afforded protection to refractory zemindars, and 
hordes of irregular banditti. There are here few durable buildings, and none at 
aU for religious purposes. Neither are there any private schools or seminaries 
for teaching the Hindoo or Mahommedan law, education not extending beyond 
the accomplishments of reading and writing. 

In Ramghur, the mouhur tree grows spontaneously, and in great abundance 
among the rocky and otherwise barren parts of the mountains, and provides the 
natives with a convenient substitute for grain, as it will keep, when pulverized, 
for a whole season. By the natives, however, it is principally used for making 
an inhision like tea, which affords a nourishing and healthy beverage, but this 
process has been construed as coming within the regulations against illicit distib 
lation. The principal rivers are the Dummodah and Burrakur, and the principal 
towns, Chittra (containing the head quarters and the jail), Ramghur, and Muc- 
kundgunge. The district is thinly inhabited, and a very great majority of the 
inhabitants are Hindoos of the Brahminical persuasion, but accurate returns of 
these particulars have not yet been published. One estimate makes the inhabi> 
tants of Ramghur Proper amount to half a million, in the proportion of one Ma- 
hommedan to 30 Hindoos. The Rajah of Chuta Nagpoor, who formerly exer- 
cised an independent jurisdiction within the limits of his own tenitories, is the 
highest in rank ; but there are besides many zemindars of extensive possessions 
and considerable personal influence, the Ramghur division being probably one of 
the least regularly arranged within the British sovereignty. 

This district has long been distinguished for the numerous crimes and devas- 
tation which occasioned annually the loss of many good soldiers from the un- 
healthiness of the country. The inhabitants of the adjacent plains have an 
unconquerable aversion to the hills, owing to the pestilential distempers they 
are liable to, as well as to the extreme barbarity of the hill natives, and the 
abundance of beasts of prey, such as tigers, bears, wolves, and hyenas. 

Theft is conunon throi^hout Ramghur, but murder, more prevalent among a 
particular class, which are the slaves possessed by persons inhabiting the 
nKwntainous and inaccessible interior, and of savage and ferocious habits. When 
petty disputes occur, these slaves are compelled by their masters to perpetrate 
any enormity, and are more especially employed for the purposes of assassina- 
tion Any hesitation or repugnance on the part of the slave is attended with 
imincdiate death, which is equally his ftite should he fail in the attempt. On 
ilk hand, if he succeed, he is sought out by the officers of government 
tmd mmeuted as a murderer. The usiml p<^ce have hitherto been unable to 
the cowardly instif^tor, and if recourse be had to a military force, he re- 

o o 2 



384 THE PROVINCE [dut»ict of 

tires into the jungles. On the occurrence of such an event, the whole country 
is thrown into confusion and rebellion, during which, many unoffending pereons 
lose their lives ; and the troops, after many ineffectual efforts to execute the 
magistrate’s orders, return to their stations worn out with ffitigue, and their 
numbers thinned by the pestilential atmosphere of the jungles. Neither do the 
slaves attach the slightest idea of guilt to the murders they are thus delegated to 
commit ; on the contrary, when seized, they always confess, and appear to ex* 
pect applause for having done their duty. Murder is here also frequently com- 
mitted through the mere ignorance and superstition of the people, who often 
put individuals to death under a belief that they possess magical influence, and 
make a destructive use of their knowledge. 

As may be supposed from the above description, the police of Ramghur is far 
from having attained even the distant approach to perfection, which is to be 
found in some of the other districts subject to the British authority. In 1813, 
the number of gang robberies committed exceeded those of 1812, and some of 
thmn were attended with circumstances of great enormity. In the year last 
mentioned, several of the dacoit gangs were led by the former proprietors of two 
small estates, sold by auction about nine years before, for arrears of revenue. 
Highway robbery, by gangs of from five to twenty persons, is the most prevalent 
offence, and the apprehension of the delinquents, owing to the nature of the 
country, difficult. Pilgrims, to the different places of Hindoo worship, who 
usually have some ready cash about them, are the most frequent sufferers on 
these occasions. In 1814, the police of Ramghur had not undergone any very 
essential improvement, and some of the local arrangements were considered by 
the superintendent of the lower provinces to be defective. The residence of the 
magistrate was usually above the ghauts or passes into the mountains, and cir- 
cumstances fre<^uently rendered his visiting places also within the ghauts neces- 
sary. In this predicament it became difficult for him to exercise an effectual 
controul over the territory adjoining to Bahar Proper, which state of things would 
naturally suggest the expediency of transferring all such places to the latter 
district. But here obstacles presented themselves, the jurisdiction of Bahar 
being already so extensive, that the management of any addition of magnitude 
would be utterly beyond the natural powers of any single judge and magistrate. 
To obviate this objection as far as practicable, it was recommended that a joint 
magistrate should be stationed at Sherig^autty . — ( W. T. Smith, J. Shhket^tm', 
Lord Teigmmth, J, Grant, S$c.) 

Chittea.— This is the chief town of the Ramghur district and msidende of 
the judge and m^strate ; yet, on account of the thick and impenetrable jung^ 
by which it is surrounded, it has new been ocmstdered safe to work cobtdebi 



ftAUOHUE.] OF BAHAR. 285 

beyond the precinct^ of the town. It stands in lat.r24* 10' N. long. 84® 50' E. 
about 110 miles S. by W. from Calcutta. 

Koondah.— A town and pergunnah in the Ramghur district, 106 miles S.S.W. 
from Patna. Lat. 24® 20' N. long. 84® 38' E. 

Muckukogunge (Mucundaganj ). — A town in the Ramghur district, 114 
miles S. by E. from Patna. Lat. 23° 57' N. long. 85° 25' E. 

Parson AUTH (Parswanatha ). — Samet Sichara, called in Major Rennell’s map, 
Parsonauth ; is situated among the hills bordering Bahar and Bengal. Its holiness 
is held in great estimation by the Jainas, and it is said to be visited by pilgrims 
from the remotest parts of India. Parswa, or Parswannah, the 23d deified saint 
of the Jainas, and who perhaps was the real founder of the sect, was bom in the 
suburbs of Benares, and died at the age of 100 years, on mount Sammeya, or 
Samet. — ( Colebrooke, ^'c.) 

Ramghur. — ^T his town is situated on the banks of the Dummodah river, 
about 190 miles N. W. from Calcutta, and originally gave its name to the district, 
but it has since fallen to a secondary rank. Lat. 23® 38' N. long. 85° 43' E. 

Muckundgunge (Muainda g(wj ). — This town stands about 114 miles S. by 
E. from Patna, and has a lead mine situated about 10 miles further west. Lat. 
23® 57' N. long. 86® 25' E. 

Big II (Bhiga ). — A town in the Ramghur district, 90 miles south from Patna. 
Lat. 24® 14' N. long. 85° 12' E. 

Jaulda. — ^A town in the Ramghur district, 165 miles N. W. from Calcutta. 
Lat. 23®23'N. long. 85®56'E. 

Paeahow ( Palamo ). — ^This hilly and jungly territory belongs to the Bahar 
province, and now forms part of the jurisdiction subordinate to the judge and 
magistrate of Ramghur. It extends from the southern extremity of Ontaree to 
Burwa, a dependency of Chuta Nagpoor, a distance of 65 miles ; the whole 
extent of which formerly confined on the Maharatta pergunnahs of Sirgoojah 
and Jushpoor, and comprehends many ghauts or passes, of various degrees of 
strength and facility. But although the scarcity of grain and density of the 
woods might stop the ingress of a regular army, it has been experimentally 
proved, that they present no insurmountable obstacles to the predatory incur- 
sions of the Pindarries. There are no rivers of any magnitude, but many small 
streams and rivulets, and the soil is in many parts strongly impregnated with 
iron. The revenue imposed on the Raja of Palamow was origioally only 
12,182 rupees; yet in 1805, Raja Chooramun Ray, the zemindar, was 17,199 
rupeeii in arrears ; a situation owing to several causes, but chiefly to the inbe- 
^ty of his own character. 

the month of iJeccmber, 1800 , a very general insurrection broke out in the 



THE PROVINCE 


286 


[district 01 


zemindaly of Palamow, at the head of which was Booraun Singh, and a numbei 
of Cheroo leaders, who plundered and destroyed property belonging to the Raja 
and other land proprietors to a great amount ; and they, for their own protection, 
were obliged, to entertain a great many irregular foot soldiers. On the approach 
of Colonel Jones with a detachment, the insurgents fled into Sirgoojah, and being 
there supported, so infested the division, that in 1801, it became necessary to 
march two battalions into Sirgoojah, for the purposes of enforcing adequate repa* 
ration for these outrages. On this expedition Colonel Jones was accompanied 
by the Palamow Raja, which involved him in great expense ; and in conse- 
quence of this alleviating circumstance, a great proportion of the arrears were 
then forgiven to the Raja by the Bengal government. 

In 1814, arrears having again accumulated to the amount of 65,700 rupees, 
owing to the incapacity of the Raja Chooramun Ray, and the refractory conduct 
of the disalFected Jaghiredars, (a species of permanent tenants,) this unfortunate 
pergunnah was brought to the hammer, and purchased by government for 51,000 
rupees. The general regulations for the public dues and administration of 
justice, had before extended to this estate, in common with the other places 
dependent on the Bengal presidency ; but in consequence of the wild state of the 
country, consisting chiefly of hills and forests, and the rude manners of its inha* 
bitants, these regulations could not be said to have more than a nominal opera- 
tion in the interior. In fact, the realization of the revenue partook more of the 
nature of voluntary contributions, than of that active and punctual enforcement 
of the rights of government, which was practised in all the other old districts, 
and from which the landholders of Palamow had no peculiar claims to exemption-. 
B^des these reasons, being a frontier station, it became of importance to vest 
the possession of the pergunnah in a person possessed of sufficient firmness to 
coerce the Jaghiredars, without ojppressing them by illegal exactions or other 
severities. 

For the accomplishment of these purposes Raja Futteh Singh was selected, 
but he died in 1814, while the arrangement was under discussion, and at the re- 
.commendation of Captain Edward Roi^hsedge, then commanding the Ramgbur 
-^' Battalion, the rights of government were transferred to his son Raja Gunshann 
Singh. In effecting this measure government made a considerable pecimiary 
sacrifice ; but the object proposed to be carried into execution were impcKrtant ; 
u, besides rewarding a loyal and meritorious family, it provided for the intenuU 
management of the estate, for the realization of the revenue, and eventually ifor 
the general protection of a vulnerable frontier. It was atthesame tinieileenke^ 
of primary nioment. that the rights and immunities of the Jf^ ^ aie d a f t iffiould be 
maintain^ iaviohtte, for the furtherance of whidi object it was (»diflred ti^ frie 



mAMOHCR.] OF BAHAR. 287 

amoimt of land-tax payable by each Jaghiredar respectively, should be endorsed 
on the back of the document which transferred the district to Raja Gunshaun 
in order to prevent future litigation and to give stability to the arrangement. 
Nor did the prior zemindar, Raja Chooramun Ray, sustain any real injury by the 
sale of his estate, he had long been a mere cipher in its management ; and nearly 
an ideot in understanding, dissolute, extravagant, and thoughtless, a character 
which unfortunately applies with too much justice to almost all the jungle 
zemindars. He was so indolent as wholly to abandon his station and respon- 
sibility, and was always ready to give a carte-blanche to any person who would 
undertake to supply him with 5 or 6 rupees daily for his personal expenses. 
This miserable chief of a distracted territory had no lineal heirs, and the collateral 
pretender was utterly unfit for the vocation. 

The tenures of the Jaghiredars (a term borrowed by the Hindoos from the 
Mahommedans) in Palamow are rather of a singular description, and are said to 
be coeval with the establishment of the late zemindar’s family 22 years ago ; 
but there is no doubt that they were all originally removeable by the Rajas, who 
before the promulgation of the British code, exercised the power of life and death 
without curb or restraint, and the renewal of the sunnuds, or grants, at the suc- 
cession of each Raja, decides the discretional power to grant or withhold it. 
Like the rest of the Ramghur judicial division, Palamow is extremely thinly 
inhabited, and on account of the irregular and rocky nature of its surface, and 
the want of navigable rivers, will probably never atthin any very numerous 
population. At present it does not contain any collection of habitations larger 
than an ordinary village . — ( Public MS. Documents, Roughsedge, Broughton, Sgc.) 

Palamow. — This village, from which the zemindary derives its name, stands 
in lat. 23® fity N. long. 84® 8' E. 135 miles S. W. from Patna. 

Pachete (Packer ). — ^A zemindary in the province of Bahar, at present 
mostly incorporated with the district of Ramghur. This large landed estate is 
bounded by Chuta Nagpoor and Ramghur, and in 1784 contained about 2779 
square miles. It was once a frontier territory towards the western confines of 
Bengal, and still retains much of the sterility and barbarism of the neighbouring 
uncouth and mountainous region to the south. The unhealthiness of the climate 
has been proved by its destructive effects on the troops stationed at Jaulda. 
The j^ncipal towns are Pachcte, Chatna, and Jaulda, which with the zemindary, 
were formeiiy held by a Rajpoot family named Narrain. The town of Pachete 
stands in lat. 23® 36' N. long. 86" Q(f E. about 126 miles N. W. from Calcutta. 
Coal of a good quality has been found on this estate. — (J. Grant, %c. 

Chavka.— -A town in the Ramghur. district. miles N. W. from Calcutta, 
long. 87® E. 



288 THE PROVINCE [district oi 

Rogonautpoor. — A town in the Ramghur district, 130 miles N. W. from 
Calcutta. Lat. 23“ 32' N. long. 86® 44' E. 

Chut A Nagpoor (Little Nagpoor). — ^This large zemindary is situated at the 
southern extremity of the province, and is now incorporated with the judicial 
division of Ramghur. It is bordered on the southern, eastern, and western 
quarters by the ancient Hindoo province of Gundwana, and was neves completely 
subjugated by the Mahommedans, although the Rajas were reduced to the 
condition of tributaries by the Mogul viceroys of Bengal ; yet they were little 
interfered with so long as their contributions were punctually paid. This is an 
extensive hilly tract and much covered with wood, fostered with great care by 
the Rajas as a protection against invasion from without, and the nature of the 
country is such, as would render it very difficult and expensive either to penetrate 
or subdue, on account of the unhealthy jungles, so deleterious to troops not bom 
on the spot. Like other hilly districts, Chuta Nagpoor contains the sources of 
many streams, but they do not swell to any considerable size until they quit its 
limits and reach the low grounds. Beneath the surface iron ore is found in 
abundance ; but this useful metal can be imported from Europe on such moderate 
terms, that its collection and fusion here present no encouragement to the specu* 
lator. The impervious jungles here conceal many strange tribes, who, even at 
this late period of Hindoo predominance, have not become converts to the Brah- 
minicai doctrines, and are consequently classed by the priests among the 
abominable. The Khetauri, the Koeri, and the Dhanggar, are still the principal 
inhabitants of Chuta Nagpoor, where it is said that the latter, and probably also 
the former, do not speak the Hindi language. The Dhanggar are still impure, 
and probably unconverted or Mlechchas. The principal towns are Burwa and 
Maharajegunge. 

For many years subsequent to the British conquest, the Rajas of Chuta 
Nagpoor, of the Sahi family, assumed and exercised independent powers, the 
Bengal government having never investigated or determined the validity of their 
claims to such authority, they were consequently by the natives considered 
merely as tributaries, and of course entitled to independent jurisdiction within 
the limits of their own territories. Raja Deonauth Sahi would never allow that 
he was any further subordinate to the British govemmrat tiban as a tributary ; 
indeed his political relations do not appear to have ever been clearly defined. 
He appears neither to have been recognized asa sort of independent chief^ although, 
a tributary ; nor as a zemindar holding lands liable to revenue. If the firat^ 
provincial courts of justice had no right to question any of his acts, so long as he 
confined them to his own country ; if the second, he was amiable, lihe any c^r 
land-holder, to the tegular process of the law, and of eotmt liable to pumshinent 



HAMGHun.] OP BAHAR. 289 

for contumacy. Prior to 1807, no decree of the Ramghur court of justice, 
disagreeable to the Nagpoor Raja, or rather to his dewan Dialnauth, had any 
effect within his district, unless backed by a detachment, and with such assist- 
ance the influence was merely temporary, until the troops had returned to their 
cantonments. In that year Raja Govindnaut Sahi Deo consented to the intro- 
duction of a systematic police into his country, and to enter into the usual 
engagements to render it efficient ; but it became perfectly evident during the 
negotiation that he had no intention of ever carrying it into execution. The 
auUiority of the British magistrate, consequently, within his zemindary, con- 
tinued merely nominal, and was obeyed or not, as the Raja and his cabinet felt 
disposed. When called on to assist in the apprehension of criminals, the person 
bearing the summons was usually subjected to personal chastisement, as an 
intruder into a territory where the British jurisdiction was not recognized. 

The late and present Rajas of Chuta Nagpoor have adhered with singular 
perseverance to the resolution of holding no personal intercourse, or communi- 
cation with the magistrates of the district, or with any of the public functionaries, 
preserving towards them, and all other Europeans, the most rigid invisibility. 
This preposterous determination they justified by a pretended vow, which they 
say the Raja who conquered the country ordered to be exacted from all his 
successors ; but the consequence has been that the lives and properties of his 
semi-barbarous subjects and their descendants, have always been at the mercy 
of an unprincipled dewan, or prime minister, who M'ithout any personal interest 
in the prosperity of the district, considers it his duty to withhold every informa- 
tion that is likely to interfere with his own usurped authority. This was 
practically experienced in 1803, when Colonel Broughton first endeavoured to 
penetrate through Chuta Nagpoor into Sumbhulpoor. On this occasion he was 
furnished by the Marquis Wellesley with mandates, addressed to all the frontier 
zemindars, enjoining ^leir zealous co-operation ; but the Raja of Chuta Nt^oor 
was scarcely at the trouble to conceal his inclination to frustrate the expedition, 
and as a measure tending to effect this object, he made his dewan join the camp, 
with the view of preventing any well-disposed native from giving information, 
hnd to impede the advance of the detachment. The first native who joined and 
pointed out a practical road suddenly disappeared, and, notwithstanding a very 
active search, was never after heard of. 

In this manner the Raja, or rather his ministers, continuing to manifest the 
utmost contumacy, and a systematic resistance to the orders of government, ‘U 
amaft force was at last, in 1809, marched into his country under the command of 
Chaplain £. Roughsedge, on the approach of which, the Raja, with a perturbation 
habitual to such recluses, quitted his capital, Maharajigunge, and ^ into the 

$9 P p 



^0 . THE PROVINCE [outrict oi 

neighbouring jungles, where he endeavoured to persevere in his hereditary invi- 
sibility. Letters were dispatched to him by a private and confidential servant of 
his own, and also by two of his uncles ; but the infatuated chief resisted all 
persuasions for his return to Chuta Nagpoor, and withdrew fiirther into the 
interior of Singhboom, where he remained so inaccessible, that when a letter was 
sent to him by a private messenger, the bearer was detained twenty miles 
distance from his actual residence for six days, and afterwards sent back with a 
reply, which, as all his servants had the unlimited use of his seal and signature, 
never could be established as genuine, nor could it be ascertained that tlie letter 
sent to him ever reached his hands. The object to be obtained by the employ- 
ment of this detachment, was the establishment of the authority of government 
over an immense estate, the proprietor of which, taking advantage of the impe- 
netrable nature of his country, had long contemned the supreme power, both with 
respect to the payment of his revenue, and in all questions connected with the 
support of the police and the administration of justice. Both these objects were 
attained, and the country brought under proper subordination, but of course 
with a great diminution of the Raja's personal authority, and the total annihilation 
of his minister’s. For these severities, however, he was entirely indebted to the 
extreme folly of his measures, for prior to his misconduct, the Raja of Chuta 
Nagpoor probably possessed his zemindary on terms more advantageous than 
any other subject of the British government. In 1805 it was calculated, that 
from the tenants he realized 160,000 rupees per annum, while the land-tax he 
paid was only 13,000 rupees per annum. With this revenue he usually supported 
,an armed rabble of 2000 men, and in 1805 Colonel Broughton estimated that the 
population of the country, if well-disposed, might furnish him 20^000 more. 

This sub-division of Bahar is designated by the term Chuta (little) to distinguish 
it from the other Nagpoor possessed by ^e Bhoonslah Maharatta family, and 
the name (Nagpoor) indicates that in the opinion of ^le natives the territory 
contains diamonds. — ( lloughioige, Seaky^ Col. Broughton, l^'c. ^c.) 

Burwa. — T his town stands 240 miles W. N. W. from ihio city of Calcutta, 
and its vicinity, named Hazary Baughs, is usually the head quarters of the officer 
commanding the Ramghur provincial corps of sepoys. Lat. 23* 2(y N. k»g. 
84“ 46' E. 

In 1801 the territories of Hurry Ram Sahy, the Raja of Burwa, were ovonnm 
and conquered by the neighbouring Raja of Sirgoojdi, and iwrt being support 
by his immediate superior the Raja of Chuta Nagpoor, he was obl%ed to aubinit 
to the invader, whose troops kept possession several years, but retTMted M 
learning the. approach of a British detachment under Cdm^l Jones. CSHseeifiDg 
this a favourable opportunity, the Raja of Chuta Nagpoor deteraiined to idt^pt 



RAMGHUR.] OF BAHAR. 291 

its reconquest, but he stood not the least chance of success had not the British 
commander, and the magistrate of Ramghur, advised the Burwa chief to submit 
on the assurance of personsA safety. He was in consequence induced to trust 
himself in the hands of the Raja’s officers, who two days afterwards sent him 
under escort to Palcote, within a mile of which place he was taken out of his 
palanquin, and put to death in cold blood by the party guarding, who had been 
selected for this atrocious purpose. On this occasion no judicial inquiry wgs 
instituted, nor did it come to the knowledge of the Bengal government until 
1807, so imperfectly was this portion of their dominions subdued, or even 
explored. — ( Roughtedge, 

1>oessah.<-A town in Chuta Nagpoor, 213 miles W. N. W. from Calcutta. 
Lat. 23* ir N. long. 86* 16' E. 

Palcote (Palacata).—A small town in Chuta Nagpoor 220 miles W. by N. 
from Calcutta. Lat. 22® 58' N. long. 84* 40' E. 

Busseah. — A small town in Chuta Nagpoor, 210 miles, W. N. W. from 
Calcutta. Lat. 22* 58' N. long. 86* 11' E. 


99 $ 



THE PROVINCE OF ALLAHABAD. 


A LARGE province of Hindostan Proper, situated between the 24th and 26tb 
degrees of north latitude. To the north it is bounded by the provinces of Oude 
and Agra; to the south by the Hindoo province of Gundwana; on the east it 
has the provinces of Bahar and Gundw’ana ; and on the west Malwah and Agra. 
In length it may be estimated at 270 miles by 120, the average breadth. By 
Abul Fazel, in 1582, this province is described as follows; “ Soubah Allahabad 
is situated in the second climate. Its length, from Sunjowly Juanpoor to the 
southern provinces, is 160 coss, and the breadth from Chowsa Ferry to Gau- 
tumpoor includes 122 coss. To the cast it has Bahar, on the north Oude, 
Baundhoo (Gundwana) lies on the south, and Agra on the west. The principal 
rivers of this soubah are the Ganges and Jumna; besides which are the Aruna, 
the Geyn, the Seroo, the Biruah, and several smaller ones. This soubah 
contains ten districts; viz. 1, Allahabad; 2, Ghazipoor; 3, Benares; 4, Juan- 
poor; 5, Manicpoor; 6, Chunar; 7, Bahtgorah; 8, Callinger; 9, Korah; 10, 
Kurrah. These districts are subdivided into 177 pergunnahs; the revenue 
being 5,310,695 sicca rupees, and 1,200,000 betel nut leaves. It furnishes 
11,375 cavalry, 237,870 infantry, and 323 elephants.” 

During the reign of Aurengzebe, the arrangements of this province were new 
modelled; the division of Bhatta, or Baundhoo, which properly belongs to 
Gundwana, having been added to it. This territory was then considered as a 
new conquest, although long before partially subdued, and was subdivided into 
i>ix lesser jurisdictions ; 1, Bhatta; 2, Sohagepoor; 3, Choteesghur, or Ruttun- 
poor; 4, Sumbhulpour; 5, Gangpoor; and 6, Jushpoor, which were all formally 
annexed to Allahabad. With this addition of 25,000 square miles of a high 
mountainous unproductive country, Allahabad then comprehended 60,000 squm^ 
miles ; but as the last mentioned tract was never thoroughly reduced to sub- 
jection, or occupied, it is much better in a geographical point of view that it 
were restored to the pronnce of Gundwana, where in remote anti<iuity it com- 
posed part of the Gond state of Gurrah. In 1747, the existing subdivisions of 
this province were, I, Allahabad; 2, Kurrah; 3, Korah; 4,Tarhar; 5, Meoic- 
poor; 6, Benares; 7, Juanpoor; 8 , Ghazipoor; 9» Chunar; 10 , |li 



ALLAHABAD. 293 

Ahmedabad Gohrah ; 12, Bhatta. At present the principal modem geographical 
and political subdivisions are the following : — 

1. District of Allahabad, 5, The Rewah territory, 

2. Benares, 6. District of Bundelcund, 

3. District of Mirzapoor, 7. District of Caunpoor, 

4. District of Juanpoor, 8. Manicpoor territory. 

The surface of this province adjacent to the rivers Ganges and Jumna is flat 
and very productive ; but to the south-west, in the Bundelcund territory, the 
country ibrms an elevated table land, diversified with high hills, and abounding 
in strong holds. This portion of the province does not admit of such complete 
cultivation, but it contains within its limits the famous diamond mines of Pannah. 
Between these two divisions there is also a considerable difference of climate ; 
the former being extremely sultry, and subject to hot winds, from which the 
latter is exempted. The principal rivers in the north are the Ganges, Jumna, 
Goomty, and Caramnassa, besides many smaller streams, which supply an 
abundant moisture, and render several of the subdivisions, especially those of 
Benares and Allahabad, among the most fertile in Hindostan. In the hilly 
country to the south-west, the rivers are few, and smaller, the Kena and Goggra 
being the principal. The periodical rains and the water procured with consider- 
able labour from wells are consequently, in this quarter, chiefly relied on ; but 
upon the whole, Allahabad may be reckoned one of the most productive 
provinces of India. 

The exports from this country are diamonds, saltpetre, opium, sugar, indigo, 
cotton, cotton cloths, &c. ; the imports are various, salt from the maritime parts 
of Bengal being one of the principal articles in regular demand. Within the 
limits of the province are many large and celebrated towns, such as Benares, 
Allahabad, Callinjer, Chatterpoor, Juanpoor, Mirzapoor, Chunar, and Ghazi- 
poor. The total population is very considerable, and may be estimated to 
exceed seven millions in the proportion of one Mahoramedan to eight Hindoos. 
In the remote times of Hindoo antiquity, this province must have held a high 
rank, as it contains the Chief Prayaga (Allahabad) and Benares, two of the 
holiest places of Brahminical pilgrimage, and the latter occupying in Hindostan 
the station which three centuries back Rome did in Christendom. At present 
the whole of this extensive province is comprehended within the limits of the 
British jurisdiction, and governed with a few modifications by the Bengal code 
of regulations, with the exception of a small portion of the Bundelcund division, 
which it held by petty native chiefs under British protection. 

We learn from Abul Fazel, that the territory composing the modem province 
of Afiahidiad was invaded so early as A. D. 1020, by Sultan Mahmood of Ghizni, 



294 THE PROVINCE fRivEBs. 

who njade a few compulsory converts to the Msdiommedan faith. He returned 
again in 1023, but made no permanent establishment. It was afterwards wholly 
subdued by the Patan emperors of Delhi, and during the 16di century 
fiirmed the basis of an independent kingdom, the capital of which was 
Juanpoor. Along with the other Patan conquests it devolved to the Moguls, 
and was formed into a distinct soubah by the Emperor Acber, who new named 
the Hindoo Sanctuary (or Prayaga) Allahabad, an appellation it still retains. 
After the fall of the Mogul dynasty, the northern quarter was appropriated by\ 
the Nabobs of Oude ; but in 1764, Korah and Allahabad were ceded to Shah 
Allum, the then nominal and fugitive sovereign of Delhi, through the interference 
of Lord Clive, with Shuja ud Dowlah, the Nabob of Oude. In 1772, they 
reverted to the latter, when that ill advised monarch of his own accord returned 
to Delhi, and became an engine of mischief in the custody of the Maharattas. 

The Bengal government acquired the Benares districts by treaty with Asoph 
ud Dowlah, in 1775, and Allahabad and the adjacent territories in 1801, by 
cession from Saadet All, his successor on the throne of Oude. The south 
eastern districts were received from the Maharatta Peshwa in 1803, in exchange 
for an equivalent tract in the Carnatic above the ghauts and Gujerat. — (' Adu/ 
Fazel, J. Grant, 5th Rq)ort, Ironside, S^'c.) 

JuMXA River This river has its source on the south-west side 

of the great Himalaya range, near the lofty peak of Jumoutri, estimated at 
25,000 feet above the level of the sea. In April, 1817, when visited by Captain 
Hodgson, the snow at Jumoutri, which covered and concealed the stream of 
the Jumna, was 60 yards wide, and bounded on the right and left by mural 
precipices of granite. This mass of snow had fallen from the heights above, and 
when measured by a plumb line let down through one of the holes caused by the 
stream of a boiling spring, was found to be 40 feet thick. The mean latitude of 
these hot springs is 30” 68" N. from whence the Jumna flows south through the 
province of Gurwal, where at Kabee Ghaut it is joined by the Tonse, which, at 
the point of junction, is the largest of the two. In this part of its course, it runs 
nearly parallel with the Gai^^, and at the village of Guradwar, where they are 
only 40 miles distant, it has as broa^^a stream. 

The Jumna enters Hindostan Proper in the imperial province of Ddflii* 
and proceeds S. S. E. nearly in a line with the Ganges, at l^e distance cttt^ 
60 to 75 miles from each other, until they gradually jdn at AUababad« arhmi 
the Junma, although little inferior in magnitude has its name absorbed by the 
larger and more holy stream. Including the windings, the length of its comae 
may be estimated at 780 miles. Hus rivar is only a useful bait^ to the 
BritMi territoricB during die rainy season, urhen military opetatieni ere* frtan 



RivEits.] OF ALLAHABAD. ^5 

the general atate of the country, almost impracticable. It is fordable in seve- 
ral places above Agra before the 1st of October, and cannot be looked upon 
as a boundary of any strength above its junction with the Chumbul, ten miles 
below Etaweh, for mdre than a few weeks of the wet season. From Calpee to 
its junction with the Ganges there is no obstruction, and only one place between 
Calpee and Etaweh, where, in the dry season, the passage is rendered in some 
degree difficult by a bank of limestone, which it was the intention of the British 
government during the administration of the Marquis Wellesley to have removed ; 
but which does not appear to have been yet effected. Except in the spot al- 
luded to, the stream of the Jumna is both larger and deeper than that of the 
Ganges. 

Prior to the British acquisition of the Doab, the merchants from the westward 
were accustomed to convey their merchandize by land-carriage to Futtehghur, 
where the goods were embarked and conveyed down the Ganges to Allahabad. 
The merchants were induced to take this circuitous route, and to submit to.the 
inconvenience of land carriage, as well as to the vexatious duties then levied, 
from the just apprehensions of the depredations to which their boats were ex- 
posed in their passage down the Jumna, from the numerous bands of robbers 
which infested the shores of that river. 

In Hindoo mythology, Yamuna (Jumna) is the sister of Yama, the judge of 
the infernal regions, and also the daughter of the sun, so that her lineage is re- 
spectable. The name is common to many Indian rivers, and has been variously 
corrupted by Europeans into Emona, Jumna, and Jabuna . — (Captain Hodgwn, 
Sir John Malcolm, Sir H. Wdksley, Lieutenant Blane, ^'c. ^c.) 

Caramkassa River (Camia nasa, the destruction of pious works ). — ^A small 
winding river which separates the province of Bahar from that of Benares. On 
crossing this river on service from Baliar, the Bengal officers were formerly con- 
sidered as having quitted the Company's territories, and received an additional 
rate of pay, to defray the increased expenses to which they were subjected by 
their distance from the presidency. 

By an ancient text, the Hindoos were forbidden even to touch the waters of 
the Caramnassa, but the inhabitants on its banks claim an exemption, which is ad- 
mitted by the other Hindoos, although their aversion to the Caramnassa continues 
as stroug as ever. By the contact alone of its baneful waters, pilgrims suppose 
they lose the fruit and efficacy of their religious austerities and pilgrimages, and 
they always cross it with the utmost caution. Major Rennell thinks it is the 
Commenasei of Arian. — (WUford, Forster, ^c.) 

Kew River. — ^This stream has its source among the Vindhyan mountains 
26 miles jr. (irom tiw Nerbuddah, from whence it proceeds in a northerly direc 



296 THE PROVINCE [msmictoF 

tion inclining to the east, with an extremely meandering course, watering the 
large district of Bundelcund. After a course including the windings of about 
240 miles, it falls into the Jumna, which it resembles in having very high banks, 
broken by numerous ravines. Its channel abounds with pebbles of agate and 
jasper, which are not so much variegated by zones of different colours, or den- 
dritical figures, nor do they contain so much crystalized matter, as those of the 
Sone ; but the jaspers are more perfect, and are red, honey colour, and black ; | 
some of the latter admitting of a fine polish. Major Rennell thinks this river \ 
is the Cainas, or Cane, of Pliny ; in the modem maps it is named the Cane, and 
Keane . — f F. Muchuiumt 4’c. 8$c,) 

THE DISTRICT OF ALLAHABAD. 

This judicial subdivision of the province is mostly composed of territory 
immediately adjacent to the city of Allahabad, and is intersected by the great 
rivers Ganges and Jumna, but the geographical distribution is ill arranged, as 
some portions of it are 90 and 100 miles from the residence of the magistrate. 
The soil, where properly cultivated, is remarkably fertile, and yields large returns 
to the husbandman. Wheat is the principal crop, and the land most favourable 
for its production, a rich sandy loam, which is a very common soil in this vici • 
nity. They begin to plough with the commencement of the rains in June, and 
only a single stirring is given to the ground until they cease. The field is then 
ploughed 15 times before the reception of the seed, a proceeding which esta- 
blishes (if any doubt had been entertained) the inefficacy of the Hindostany plough. 
September and October are the months for sowing. During the dry season, the 
land must be artificially watered, which is a much more laborious task than the 
cultivation. Four bullocks and three labourers are with difficulty able to water 
an acre in nine days ; the average crop is reckoned 15 maunds per-begah, (seven 
quarters per acre). Barley, peas, oil crops, and a yellow dye, are often mixed 
with the wheat. The average rent of wheat land is about one pound sterling 
per acre. 

In this district the breed of sheep is small, even for India ; and the fleece con- 
sists of a coarse, black hair, altogether unsuitable for cloth, but which answen 
very well for the manufacture of shepherds’ rugs. The usual dress of the 
peasantry is merely a small piece of coarse cloth tied, roudd the middle, one 
blanket, and a sort of turban made cf a cotton clout; these three i^cles com- 
posing the sum total of their wardrobe. The internal commerce 1^ progres- 
sively increased since the cession in 1801, and the culture of many aiticli^» 
especially cotton, very greatly augmented, on account of the increiuied^ and inif 
creasing demand from Europe. 



AtzjiUABAD.] OF ALLAHABAD. ^ 

la every subdivision there is a small trade in cloths, grain, and other home 
productions. In the towns of Currah and Shahzadpoor a considerable quantity 
of cotton cloths and chintzes is manufactured for exportation; and inFuttehpoor 
and Allahabad, advances are made to a considerable amount for the species of 
cloths named baftaes and sullums. The transit commerce through the Allahabad 
district consists mostly of Sambher salt cotton, unwrought iron and shawl 
goods ; which, after supplying local consumption, are forwarded to the lower 
provinces. Prior to 1802, a considerable commerce was carried on at Phoolpoor 
in pergimnah Secundra, to the north of the Ganges, The commodities circulated 
were salt, cotton, iron, drugs of various kinds, copper, zinc, lead, broad cloth, 
and other articles from Bengal ; but the traders were then so much oppressed by 
the Nabob of Oude’s officers, that they retired with their capital to Mirzapoor, 
and other places of greater security. Shalizadpoor and Phoolpoor are still 
much resorted to by traders from the Nabob of Oude’s reserved dominions; and 
until 1794, while the cloths manufactured in the lower parts of the Doab were 
much in demand for the European market, many mercantile houses were enabled 
to invest 15 or 20,000 rupees monthly, in the commodity of cloth alone. Since 
that time the cloths termed sullums, baftaes, the Shahzadpoor chintzes, and the 
red kurwa, have been most in demand, and considerable sums have been annually 
advanced in the country by the European merchants of Calcutta. 

The revenue settlement originally formed here, in the fusly or financial year 


1216, underwent two subsequent revisions. 

In 1216 (1809-10) the terms were . . . 2,590,806 Rupees. 

1217 2,667,614 

1218 2,682,084 

1219 provisionally and in perpetuity . . 2,713,081 


Although this settlement exhibits on the face of the account a progressive in- 
crease, it greatly falls short of the jumma, or assessment to the revenue, which 
the district was expected to yield on its first acquisition. This has been attri- 
buted to mistaken zeal on the first introduction of the British government, by 
immediately carrying the assessment to the highest point which the land was 
thought capable of sustaining. The fatal results of this inconsiderate arrange- 
in the first instance, were, remissions and irrecoverable balances to a lai^ 
amoimt, and a sudden fall of the revenue at the formation of the second settle- 
ment in 1213 (1806-7) fusly. Added to these evils were numerous transfers of 
mtates by public and private sale, amounting in some pcrgunnahs to a total de- 
vdution of the principal and most valuable portion of the district, into the hands 
of the actual Tehsildani, or subordinate revenue ofificers. A great shock was in 
ctmaetpiettce sustained by the credit of government* from sndh persons havii^ 
voi.* 1. an 



298 THE PROVINCE [district op 

been permitted to pervert their official influence, and the old proprietors did not 
disguise their hopes of recovering their estates by the termination and subver- 
sion of the British predominance. 

On the formation of a subsequent settlement measures were taken by the 
commissioners, Sir Edward Colebrooke and Mr. Bean, for cancelling a great 
number of these illicit and fraudulent transfers, leaving the parties, should they 
consider themselves wronged by this proceeding, to establish their claims in u 
court of justice, but the relief thus afforded bore a small proportion to the extent 
of the grievance. In the Allahabad district, the russud, or progressively in- 
creasing assessment, originated probably in the efforts of the local revenue officers 
to carry the assessment to the highest practicable pitch, having in their view the 
perpetuity of the land-tax at the expiration of the lease. It would, however, 
have proved more conducive to the prosperity of the country, and ultimately to 
the improvement of the revenue, if the landholder had at the commencement 
enjoyed the full benefit of a moderate and equal assessment, under the tempo- 
rary settlements. 

In every district subordinate to the British authority throughout Hindustan, 
the state of its police is the most important feature of its history, and its jail the 
most imposing edifice. In the Allahabad jurisdiction 4C gang robberies were 
committed during the year 1811, but this offence does not generally prevail 
throughout the district, being of much more frequent occurrence in the police 
stations which are not situated within the Doab, but he immediately on the 
borders of the Oude reserved territories, or adjacent to the tlien independent and 
turbulent state of Rewah. The two pergunnahs in which gang robberies are 
most frequent are, Secundra situated on the north side of the Ganges, near the 
Nabob of Oude's dominions ; yet it was clearly ascertained that not one of the 
perpetrators lived in the Allahabad district, the atrocities having been perpe- 
trated by a banditti residing within the Oude boundaries ; the other pergunnah 
is Barah, situated south of the Ganges, and on the borders of the Rewah country, 
where the depredators found an asylum and depot for their booty. In seine 
instances these crimes were committed by ousted zemindars, whose estates had 
been sold, and who were actuated by.raalice against the purchasers. Although 
many applications were made to the Raja of Rewah for the apprehension of Uie 
criminals, no step to effect that object was ever taken, or probably intended, by 
the Raja. The pasees, or village watchmen, had long been suspected of not 
performing the functions of their office, with either honesty or vigilance, and in 
1812 were discovered to be the most numerous class of Uiieves in the district, 
la ^t year an affray of considerable magnitude took place respecting disputed 
li^madiRries, in which although tlie laud in dispute mnounted to oidy four jb^iaiu^* 



AiLAHABAD.] OF ALLAHABAD. 299 

(only one acre and a diird,) 900 men of different villages were engaged. On 
this occasion 130 persons were seized and sent to the magistrate for examination; 
but it may very much be doubted whether the seizure of so many persons is likely 
to restore good order, or whether so satisfactory a result can be expected, as 
shall compensate for the time the magistrate must devote to it, to the serious 
prejudice of his other duties. In 1815, the inhabitants generally evinced great 
hostility to the introduction of the Chokeydarry system, (an im])roved establish* 
ment of watchmen,) and no respectable inhabitants came forward to receive 
sunuuds. The class denominated Pragwals, who perform the religious ceremo* 
nie» at the junction of the great rivers, to the number of 4 or 5,000, shewed a 
determination to resist, threatened to cease to officiate, and withdraw '^together, 
wliich would have caused a loss to government of the pilgrim revenue. Many 
other conspiracies to arrest the progress of the arrangements took place, but by 
patience and firmness were ultimately dissipated or suppressed. — (Public MS. 
Documents, Sir llairi/ Wdlcsky, Tennant, Guthrie, Fortcscue, Lowther, 8^'c.) 

Allaiiabao. — A town in the province of Allahabad, of which it is the capital, 
situated at the confluence of the Ganges and Jumna. Lat. 25’ 27' N. long. 
81® 50' E. The fort is placed at the distance of a quarter of a mile on a tongue 
of land, one side being washed by the Jumna, and the other nearly approaching 
the Ganges. It is lofty and extensive, and completely commands the navigation 
of the two rivers. There are probably few buildings of equal size in* Europe. 
Next the two rivers it is defended by the old walls, with the addition of some 
cannon. The third side next the land is perfectly regular and very strong. It 
has three ravelins, two bastions, and a half bastion, and stands higher than any 
ground in front of it. The gateway is Grecian and elegant. The government 
house is spacious and cool, and has some large subterraneous rooms overhanging 
the river. In the same line, another building has been modernized and converted 
into barracks for the non-commissioned officers. In the angle is a square, where 
Shah Allum had his seraglio, while he resided here. Up to 1803, the sum 
expended on the fortifications amounted to 12 lacks of rupees, and they are now 
quite impregnable to the tactics of a native army. To an European army a 
regular siege would be necessary, it is consequently the grand military depot of 
the upper provinces. 

The situation of Allahabad being alike adapted for the purposes of internal 
commefte and defence, must have early pointed it out as an eligible spot for the 
fo und ation of a city, and most probably it is the site of the ancient Palibothra. 
In tnodmn times, from its geographical position, it appears well calculated to be 
the empomm of Oude, Bundelcund, and Bogalecund. It formerly ranked as » 

na2 



300 THE PROVINCE 

considerable mart for the cotton of the Deccan, and of countries to the south 
of the Jumna, but owing to the extortions practised on the merchant by the 
native revenue officers of the Oude government, the trade gradually resorted to 
Mirzapoor, and abandoned this port, although so eligibly situated. Nine-tenths 
of the present native buildings are of mud, raised on the foundations of more 
substantial brick edifices, which have long fallen to decay. In 1803 the inhabi- 
tants, exclusive of the garrison, were estimated at 20,000. The soil in the 
vicinity consists of brick dust, mortar, and broken pottery. The Ganges here is 
about a mile broad, and does not appear to be much augmented by the tribute of 
so large a river as the Jumna, although the latter is 1,400 yards across: 

Statement of the amount paid into the .Allahabad treasury on account of duties 
received at the custom house ; 

In 1812-13 220,000 rupees 

1813-14 227,000 

By the Brahmins Allahabad is called Bhat Prayag, or by way of distinction, 
as it is the largest and most holy, is simply designated by the name of Piays^. 
The other four Prayagas, or sacred confluences of rivers, are situated in the 
province of Serinj^ur, at the junction of the Alacananda with other streams, and 
are named Devaprayaga, Rudraprayaga, Carnaprayaga, and Nandaprayaga. 
This Prayaga owes its celebrity to the junction at this spot of the Ganges, Jumna, 
and Sereswati. There is no such river as the last now visible in the neighbour- 
hood. but the Hindoos assert that it joins the other two under ground, and that 
consequently by bathing here, the same religious merit is acquired, as if the 
penitent had bathed in the whole three separatdy. When a pilgrim arrives 
here, he first sits down on the brink of the river, and has his head and body 
shaved so that each hair may fall into the water, the sacred writings promising 
him one million of years residence in heaven, for every hair thus deposited. 
After shaving he bathes, and the same day, or the next, performs the obsequies 
of his deceased ancestors. The tax accruing to government for permission to 
bathe is only three rupees for each person; but a much greater expense is 
incurred in charity and gifts to the Bi^mins, vrho are seen sitting by the river 
side. Many persons renounce life at this holy confluence, by going in a boat, after 
the performance of certain solemnities; to the exact spot where tihe three ritWPS 
unite, where the devotee plunges into the stream, with three pots of water tied to 
Ml body. Occasionally also some lives are lost by the eagenuMS ^ the devotees 
rush in and bathe at the most sanctified spot, at a precise period of the ttoon* 
tvhen the expiarion possenes the highest efficacy. The BengMeaq . eattf^y 
perfom the pilgrimages of Gaya, Benares, and Allahabad during one ]0iinMy» 
and theriffiy acquire great merit in the estintaticii td* their coontryimm. 



▲LLABABAD.] OF ALLAHABAD. 301 

Abstract of receipts and disbursements for 1812-13, the number of pilgrims 
being 218,792. 

Rupees. 

Amount of collections 223,563 

Repaid to the aunt of Dowlet Row Sindia 175 


223,388 

Fine.- levied from persons attempting to bathe without licenses 1 ,085 

224,473 


Charges of establishment 3,407 

Net receipts 1812-13 221,066 


So great a congregation of people as met in 1812 at the melah, or fair, had not 
occurred for 28 years, on which account many precautions became necessary to 
preserve the lives of the pilgrims from the effects of their own inconsiderate 
ardour. This was done so successfully that not one instance of death happened 
by drowning, but the measures adopted on shore were not so effectual, as on 
the last day of the assemblage, when a great concourse of people were advancing 
towards the barrier, 13 fell among the multitude, and were trampled to death. 


In 1815-16, the gross collections were . . . 79,779 rupees 

Charges aud commission 6,726 


Net collections 73,053 

The great Emperor Acber was always partial to Allahabad, and was the 
founder of the modem city, intending it as a strong hold to overawe tlie sur- 
rounding countries, for which from local circumstances it was well adapted. In 
1766, it was taken by the British army under Sir Robert Fletcher. Following 
the course of the river, Allahabad is 820 miles from the sea, but the travelling 
distance from Calcutta is only 550 miles ; from Benares 53 ; from Lucknow 127 ; 
from Agra 296; and from Delhi 212 miles. — (Lord Yakutia, Public MS. Docu- 
Wa^*, Sir Henrif Wetksky, Ward, Tennant, ^'C. ^x.) 

Atniicuux. — A town in the Allahabad province, 22 miles N. W. from the 
fortress of Allahabad. Lat. 25” 34' N. long. 81” 31' E. 

EcbALLAH. — A town in the Allahabad province, 59 miles W. by N. from the 
fr^tress of Allahabad. Ut. 25° 34' N. long. 81° 1' E. 

Aba It. — Th is town stands exactly opposite to the fortress of Allahabad across 
^ lunma. Lat. 26° 24' N. 81° 60' E. 

town stands exactly opposite to the fortress of All aha b ad; across 
m Lat 26” 26' N. long. 81° 62' £. 



302 ,, THE PROVINCE [zemivdabt or 

Jelgumah. — town in the province of Allahabad, 20 miles S. by W. from 
the city of Allahabad. Lat. 25® 10' N. long. 81* 43' E. 

Fctteiipoor. — A large town in the province of Allahabad, 65 miles S. from 
Lucknow. Lat. 25* 56' N. long. 80* 45' E. 

Ci’RBAH (Khara). — ^This town is situated on the S. W. side of the Ganges, 
45 miles N. W. from Allahabad. Lat. 25*41' N. long. 81* 16' E. It extends 
a mile along the banks of the Ganges, on the summit of which there is an old 
fort in ruins. There is also here anew one with a stone gateway, but unfinished. 
There are many Hindoo temples, in the largest of which there is an image of 
Maliadeva, with a bull looking at him. In 1582, when Abul Fazel compiled his 
statistical description of Hindostan, a small district was attached to this town, 
which was described by him as follows “ Circar Currah, containing 12 mahals, 
measurement 447,556 begahs; revenue 22,682,048 dams ; seyurghal 1,498,862 
dams. This circar furnishes 390 infantry; and 8,700 cavalry.” 

Belinda. — A small town in the Allahabad province, 66 miles south from 
Lucknow. Lat. 25° 53' N. long. 80° 49' E. 

Huswaii. — A town in the province of Allahabad, 30 miles N. W. from Currah. 
Lat. 25* 53' N. long. 80* 52' E. 

Koraii (Cara). — A town in the province of Allahabad, to which a small 
district was formerly attached, situated in the Doab of the Ganges and Junuuu 
Lat. 26* 6' N. long. 80* 40' E. By Abul Fazel, in 1582, it is described as follows: 

Circar Korah, containing nine mahals, measurement 341,170 begahs; revenue 
17,397,567 dams ; Seyurghal 469,350 dams. This circar furnishes 500 cavalry, 
10 elephants, and 15,000 infiintry.” 

Bendikee. — k small town in the Allahabad province, 15 miles S. £, from the 
town of Korah. Lat. 26° 2' N. long. 80® 30' E. 

CuDJWA (Catchwa). — k town in the Allahabad province, 11 miles S. £. firmn 
Korah. Lat. 26* 4' N. long. 80° 26' E. 

Tarmar. — A small subdivision of the Allahabad province, which during the 
reign of Aurungzebe was formed of portions of land dismembered from the 
adjoining districts. It is situated di|e south of the city of Allahabad on the 
opposite side of the river. 

THE BENARES DISTRICT OR ZEMINDARY. 

This large portion of the Allahabad province is situated principally between 
the 24th and 26th degrees of north latitude. When ceded in 1775, by Aat^ 
ud Dowlah, it was subdivided into 62 pergunnahs, containiiig 12,000 s^«ttie 
miles, of which 10,000 are a rich cultivated fiat on both «des the Oib^iea* 
The cW^ modem subdivisions are, die city and district of Beminmt and dm 



bewarss.] of ALLAHABAD. 303 

dbti^tt of Juanpoor and Mirzapoor. In the institutes of Acber, A. D. 1582, 
Abnl Fazel describes the province as follows : “ Circar Benares, con tain ing eight 
mahals; measurement 136,663 begahs ; revenue 8,169,318 dams. This circar 
furnishes 830 cavalry, and 8,400 infantry. 

The climate of this province, which in winter is so severe as to render fires 
necessary, becomes so heated for three months after March, by the setting in of 
the hot winds, as to destroy all verdure, and would probably prove destructive 
to all European artificial grasses, were the cultivation introduced. Turnips, 
radishes, and a variety of greens and garden stuffs are raised by the natives ; but 
mostly for the consumption of Europeans. There is not much land employed 
in the raising of rice, the chief articles of produce being barley, wheat, and 
several species of the pea. A small quantity of flax is raised on the skirts of 
almost every field for the sake of the oil ; its use as an article of clothing not 
being here understood. Every field of barley contains a mixture of grain or pease ; 
and at the distance of six or ten feet, a beautiful yellow flowering shrub, used 
in dyeing, is planted. A considerable quantity of sugar is produced in this terri- 
tory, and manufactured by a very simple ])rocess. A stone mortar and wooden 
piston turned by two bullocks, the whole not worth twelve rupees, constitute 
(he most expensive part of the machinery, and the boiling pots are of the most 
common earthenware. Here, as in the West Indies, the sugar harvest is the 
joyous and busy season. The jumma, or land assessment to the revenue, in 1813 
was 4,079,124 rupees, and the gross receipts of the Benares province 4,562,707 
rupees. 

From Patna to Buxar, Ghazii>oor, Benares, and Mirzapoor, much cultivation 
and a rich country are seen, while the numerous clumps of mango trees give the 
district the appearance of a forest, and aftbrd an agreeable retreat to the cattle. 
Both sides of the river, a little above Mirzapoor, belong to the Nabob of Oude, 
and exhibit a marked contrast to the Benares districts, which probably in the 
8(xde of general prosperity are inferior to few in the British dominions, and are 
sriU gradually improving in population, cultivation, commerce, and buildings, both 
religious and domestic. The stone quarries at Clumar, Ghazipoor, and Mirza- 
poor, were formerly reserved for the eifclusive use of the government, and were 
either let in farm, or managed by an agent who disposed of the stones at stated 
prices, chiefly in tire city of Benares; but in 1799, with the view of encouraging 
the excavation of the quarries, government determined to lay the whole open to 
the public, subject to a moderate duty. In 1 815- 1C, the net collections on this 
account amounted to 37,086 rupees. 

Plain and flowered muslins, adapted to common uses, are manufactured in the 
ntMftileni, baftacs in the western, and sauaes in the eastern part of the province. 



504 THE PROVINCE [zemimdabt of benaess 

Tissues, brocades, and ornamented gauzes, are the general manu&cture.. A 
species of salt is manufoctured within the province, but much the greater pro- 
portion is imported from Bengal and Sambher in Ajmeer, and other places. A 
great quantity of excellent indigo is annually raised and exported from the 
Benares territories, which also furnish a proportion of the Company’s opium. 
The principal rivers are the Ganges, the Goomty, the Caramanassa and the Sone, 
the two last being boundary rivers ; and on the whole the country is tolerably 
well supplied with water. The principal towns are Benares, Mirzapoor, 
Juanpoor, Chunar, and Ghazipoor. In 1801, by the directions of Marquess 
Wellesley,, then Governor-General, the board of revenue circulated various 
questions to the collectors of the different districts on statistical subjects. 
The result of their replies tended to prove, that the Benares province contained 
3,000,000 (a number probably greatly within the mark) of inhabitants, and that 
the population of the towns was generally in proportion of ten Hindoos to one 
Mahommedan, while that of the country was 20 of the former to one of the 
latter. 

The code of regulations for Bengal has, with very little alteration, been extended 
to Benares ; but in consideration of the high respect paid by the Hindoos to the 
character of their Brahmins, they have received some special indulgencies in the 
mode of proceeding against them on criminal charges ; and it has been further 
provided in their favour, that in all cases, where by law a Brahmin would be 
adjudged to suffer death, the sentence shall be changed to transportation, or 
mit^ated at the discretion of government. At the same time some evil practices, 
of the Brahmins were abolished ; one of which was, the holding out the threat 
of obtaining spiritual vengeance on their adversaries by suicide, or by the 
exposure of the life, or actual sacrifice, of one of their own children, or near 
relations. It was then ordered that occurences of this nature should not be 
exempted from the cognizance of the magistrate, and the usual course of the 
criminal law. The consequence was, that the frequency of the crime so gradually 
diminished, that in 1801 only one instance had occurred in the populous district 
of Juanpoor within six months. On this occasion a Brahmin destroyed hima^, 
and his body was buried by a relatiooh^t the door of the zemindar of his village. 
The dispute originated respecting the proportion of Brahminy fees, to which his 
branch of the family deemed themselves entitled ; and the Imdy was buried at 
the zemindar 8 door because the latter had paid a marriage fee to the other party* 
Voluntary suicide, however, continued frequent, and the same mai^alrate 
reckoned that in the Juanpoor district alone four or five persons ^troyed dUmi* 
selves each solar month. Another tribe of Hindoos residing in the ^vinice, niined 
Rajeoomars, were accustomed to destroy tfaw femate ilifimis, in cwwequence 



ciTT ov BENARES.] OF ALLAHABAD. 305 

iitf the difficulty expenenced in procuring suitable matches. From this practice 
Aey were prevailed on to desist by the resident, Mr. Duncan, and the observance 
of it now subjects the offender to the ordinary punishment of murder. The 
usual proportion of deaths among the prisoners in the jails of the Benares 
division is about 5 in the 100 persons annually. The most prevalent diseases are 
dysentery and rheumatism, and the unhealthy periods are the months of Sep- 
tember and October. 

Munsuram, the father of Cheit Singh, possessed originally but half the village 
of Gungapoor, by additions to which, in the usual modes of Hindostan, he laid 
the foundation of the great zemindary of Benares. He died in 1740, and was 
succeeded by his son Bulwunt Singh, who in 30 years of his own management, 
increased his acquisitions to the present size of the province. Cheit Singh 
received the zemindary in 1770, was expelled during the government of Mr. 
Hastings in 1781, and died at Gualior on the 29th of March, 1810. The lands 
were transferred to a collateral branch of the family, the present representative 
of which is named Raja Oodit Narrain. — (Tamant, J. Grant, Welland, 8^. 
^c. 4’C.J 

THE CITY OF BENARES. 

The Sanscrit name of this ancient city is Varanaschi, from Vara and Nashi, 
two rivers, and its geographical position is in lat. 25® 30' N. long. 83® TE. 
The Ganges here forms a fine sweep of about four miles in length, and on the 
external side of the curve, which is the most elevated, stands the holy city of 
Benares. The margin is covered with houses to the water’s edge, and the 
opposite shore being level, the whole may be viewed at once. Ghauts, or landing 
places, built of large stones, are very frequent, and are 30 feet high before they 
reach to the streets ; the erection of them is frequent by Hindoos as acts 
of piety. 

The streets are so extremely narrow, that it is diflicult to penetrate them, 
even on horseback. The houses are built of stone, some six stories high, close 
to ea ch other, with terraces on the summit, and very small windows, to prevent 
glare end inspection from without. The opposite side of the streets in some 
places approach so near to each other as to be united by galleries. The number 
of stone a nd brick houses, from one to six stories high, is upwards of 12,000; 
the mud houses above 16,000 ; and, in 1803, the permanent inhabitants by 
emmi^tbn exceeded 682,000. This was exclusive of the attendants on three 
princes, several other foreigners, who may amount to 3000 ; and 
diwiq || lire fes tival* the concourse is beyond calculation. The Mahommedans are 
not euppoeed to ba more t ha ** <me in ten. In diis riity there aw said to be 8000 
wui, »n 



THE PROVINCE 


306 


[CITT O# 


houses occupied by Brahmins, who receive charitable contributions, although 
each has a property of his own. 

The mosque with its miners was built by Aurengzebe to mortify the Hindoos. 
Not only is it placed on the highest point of land, and most conspicuous from 
being close to the river ; but the foundations are laid on a sacred spot, where 
before stood a Hindoo temple, which was destroyed to make room for the 
Mussulmaun edifice. From the top of the minars there is an extensive view of 
the town and adjacent country, and of the numerous Hindoo temples scattered 
over the city, and the surroun^ng country. The houses of the English at Serole 
are handsome, although they look naked for want of trees ; but this is indis> 
pensable in India, on account of the multitudes of musquetoes their foliage 
harbours. The Raja of Benares resides at Ramnagur, on the opposite side of 
the river, about five miles from Benares. There are but few Europeans here : 
a judge, collector, and register, the members of the court of circuit, with a few 
other civil and medical servants, constitute the whole of the government esta- 
blishment; to which may be added a few private merchants and planters. Amidst 
such a crowd of natives, and in so sacred a town, it may be supposed that men- 
dicants are very numerous ; many of the natives, however, possess large fortunes, 
and are actively engaged in trade as merchants or bankers. Benares has long 
been the great mart for diamonds, and other gems, brought principally from the 
Bundelcund country. The land in and about Benares bemg high priced and 
much sought after, law suits respecting it are unceasing. 

Benares, or Casi, is held by the Hindoos to be sacred for ten miles around, and 
the famous lingam it contains, is said to be a petrifaction of Siva himself. The 
principal demigods have also set up images of the lingam, so that within the city 
there are not less than one million of images of the lingam. Another legend of 
equal authenticity is, that Benares was originally built of gold, but m consequence 
of the sins of the people became stone, and latterly, owing to the increasing 
wickedness, has degenerated into thatch and clay. The Brahmins assert that 
Benares is no part of the terrestrial globe, for that rests on the thousand headed 
serpent Ananta (eternity) ; whereas Benares b fixed on the point of Siva’s trident, 
as a proof of which they allege that noHrerthquake b ever felt within its hdy limits* 
and that in consequence of its peculiar position it escaped destruction duriiqi; a 
partial overwhelming of the woiid. Most persons stay but a short time at Benares, 
and then return to their bmilies, yet even so transient a vbit secures thq pi3^|;riin 
^trance into the heaven of Siva. Some vbit the sacred place rep^dedly, atid 
one devotee b mentioned, who had been sixteen times from Benarib to 
Raansseram in the straits of Ceylmi. There are r^;idar guides, or ©bmtonw* 
bho met plgrimB in the diffinrent villages throui^ whidli they hcve to pass, 



OF ALLAHABAD. 


BSHAEXS.] 


S07 


tnd conduct them collectively to Benares. A great many persons also reaer-t 
hither from all parts of Hindostan, in order to finish their days in so holy 8 satic- 
tuary; and the Hindoos admit that even the beef eating English who die at 
Benares may obtain absorption into Brihm. Some learned Hindoos relax so fer 
as to admit the possible salvation of Englishmen in two other cases ; viz. if they 
become firm believers in Gunga (the Ganges), or die at Juggemauth ; and they 
even name a European who went straight to heaven from Benares, but it. 
appeared that he had left money for the construction of a temple after his 
death. 

the country opposite to Benares is called Vyasa Casi, from the following 
legend. At a certain time the great saint Vyasa, the compiler of the Vedas, 
being angry with Siva, began to found a city which should eclipse Benares. 
The destroyer (Siva) being alarmed, sent his son Ganesa, the god of wisdom, to 
thwart by artifice this intention, and he in prosecution of the design became the 
saint’s disciple, and daily asked him what would be the fruit of living and dying 
in the new city. This query was repeated so often that at last the holy 
man lost his temper, and in a fit of rage exclaimed, that in the succeeding trans* 
migration they would be bom asses, and in consequence abandoned his design. 
At present some ruins of temples are to be seen, but on account of the above 
anathema and over caution, few persons chuse to reside on a spot so circum- 


stanced. 

This city has long been celebrated as the revered seat of Brahminical learning, 
and it is still reckoned so holy, that several foreign Hindoo Rajas keep vakeels, 
or delegates, residing here, who perform for their benefit the requisite sacrifices 
and oblations. In 1801, besides the public college for Hindoo literature, insti- 
tuted during the residency of Jonathan Duncan, Esq. there were in the city 
private teachers of the Hindoo and Mahommedan law ; and of the first, 300 were 
stated to be eminent, the aggregate number of their pupils 6000. From a 
•prevailiftg idea, that were they to receive any remuneration directly from their 
p u p i ls^ the religious merit of teaching the V edas would be lost, they would accept 
of nothing firdm their scholars, trusting to donations from pilgrims of-rank, and 
to legvdar salaries allowed them by different Hindoo princes, such as the Raja of 
Jeypoor and some Maharatta chiefs. 

In 1811 it was lound necessary to revise and new model the regulations of the 
Hindoo ocdlege, to adapt them to the prevailing habits and opinions of natj^. 
and tooonect the abuses, of which the following were the most remarkable. T 

samepi^uto continued toexistagamst the function of^^^ 

offioe,^«if«i as a service, and the most learned p^dits tod 

tito alth^ That part of the then ems g 



THE PROVINCE 


308 


[city Of 


plan, whicfi supposes the attendance of teachers and pupils in a public hall, was 
found altogether inconsistent with the tenets of the Hindoos, and in fact not only 
never took place, but tended to prevent the professors from givmg instructions 
at their own houses. And lastly, feuds had arisen and embezzlements taken 
place among the native members of the college. Various measures were then 
adopted by the Bengal government with the view of remedying these defects, and 
renovating the taste for Hindoo literature ; but under existing circumstances this 
appears to be a hopeless task, and a misdirection of the studies of the natives, 
which might be much more profitably applied to the English language and 
European literature and science. In 1801 there were 30 persons eminent as 
instructors in the Mahommedan law ; but they were mostly persons of inde- 
pendent property, or who held public employments and gave instruction gratis. 

Reading and writing are taught here at the same time : the boys are collected 
on a smooth flat of sand, and, with the finger or a small reed, form the letters in 
the sand, which they learn to pronounce at the same time. When the space 
before each scholar is filled up with writing, it is effaced and prepared for a new 
lesson. 

A considerable tract of country adjacent to Benares is subordinate to the 
jurisdiction of its magistrate, and in a progressive state of improvement. The 
cultivation has everywhere greatly extended, an observation which may be ap- 
plied to the province generally, as, except in pergunnah Chownsah, and in the 
hills to the south-east of Chunar, there is hardly a sufficient quantity of uncul- 
tivated land for the grazing of cattle. The most valuable articles of produce 
are sugar cane, opium, tobacco, betel leaf, and indigo. The zemindars clear pw^t 
on their lands in 1801 was reckoned very unequal ; some estates yielding under 
10 per cent, while others realized above thirty. At that period the rent-free 
lands throughout the Benares territories were estimated to bear the proportion 
of 1 to 7 of those assessed for revenue, there was no perceptible difference in the 
standard of their cultivation. The amount paid into the Benares treasury on 
account of duties collected at the custom house was, in 1813-14, sicca rupees 
191,306. 

The ancient name of Benares was Csisi, the splendid, which it still retaucHt ; 
but there are not any notices concerning it in the works of the ancimtt get^pM* 
phers, although they specify Mathura (Methora) and ClisolMura, which lay neitr 
the Jumna. It is probable that at the period of the Mahommedan tnvaaicii it 
was subject to the Hindoo empire of Kanoje. In A. D. 1017, Sultan Mahmcod, 
of Ghizni, took Benares and the town of Cassum, or Casuma, now Palpa, and 
wmt as as the country of Ouganam, or Unja, to the west of the CkMaimhainr 
river. The nextytor he overrun these countries again, and penetrated at ^ at 



BEKAEXs.] OF ALLAHABAD. 


309 


IQnuji, or Cach’cha Baja, or Cooch Bahar. From that ^te, ttm Hindoos in 
this part of India remained for a long time unmolested by the Mahommedans. 
aa it does not appear they made any permanent conquests in this territory be- 
fore the end of the 12th century, or about 1190, after which event it followed 
the fortunes of the Patan and Mogul dynasties, until with the rest of the district 
it devolved to the British in 1775. On the 14th of January, 1799, Mr. Cherry, 
the resident, and three other English gentlemen, were treacherously murdered 
by Vizier Ali, the deposed Nabob of Oude, and spurious son of the late Asoph 
ud Dowlah. Mr. Davis, the judge of the city, defended himself and family 
with a short spear, at the top of a narrow winding staircase, on the flat roof of 
the house, until assistance arrived. 

. This celebrated city has enjoyed the most undisturbed tranquillity ever since 
it came under the immediate government of the British nation in 1781, and has 
continued annually to increase in size, the buildings having expanded to the 
neighbouring villages, and to accumulate so immense a population that it pro- 
bably is at present the most populous city of Hindustan, its real number 
of inhabitants certainly exceeding 600,000. The latter are in general better 
informed than the majority of the people of Hindostan, and are fully sensible of 
the contrast between the British dominions, and the native powers, with respect 
to security of person and property, and the tale of every pilgrim and traveller 
that arrives, assists to refresh their memories. In 1815, considering the extent 
and great population of the city of Benares, the security afibrded by the police 
was unequalled in any part of the Company’s dominions. The Benares division 
of the court of circuit comprehends the following districts; viz. 1, Mirzapoor; 
2, Allahabad ; 3, Bundelcund; 4, Juanpoor; 5. Gorucpoor; 6. the city of 
Benares. 


The travelling distance from Benares to Calcutta is 460 miles, by Moor- 
shedabad 565 ; from Allahabad 83 ; Buxar70; Bareily345; Calpee239; and 
Kanoje 259 miles. — (Ward^ Lord Vahitia, Tennant, Lord Minto, lioutlcdge, 

GaaziFOOR. — A town and district in the province of Allahabad, zemindary of 
Beimzes, situated about the 26th degree of north latitude. On the nortlr this 
distriiilit tt bounded by the Ooggrah ; on the south by the Ganges ; on the east it 
hat the Gk^^prah, and on the west Juanpoor. It has long been celebrated for 
the et^U^e of its rose-water, and being also remarkably well supplied with 
nat&afil mmtture, may be noted as one of the most fertile subdivisions of India. 
In WS2, it is detcribed by Abul Fazel, as follows: " Circar Gazypoor, con- 
19 Btahals, measurement 2,880,770 begahs, revenue 13,431,300 dams. 



310 THE PROVINCE [oimicTor 

Beyuighal 131,825 dams. This Circar funiahes 810 cavalry, and 16,650 in* 
fantry.” 

The territory attached to the town of Ghazipoor, formerly composed a 
separate jurisdiction, but subsequent to the introduction of the Bengal code into 
the Benares province, the judicial establishment at Ghazipoor was withdrawn, 
and the country divided between the courts of Juanpoor, Mirzapoor, and the 
city of Benares. The chief towns are Ghazipoor, Azimpoor, and Dooryghaut. 
The town of Ghazipoor stands on the north side of the Ganges, about 41 miles 
N. E. from Benares. Lat. 25“ 35' N. long. 83® 33' E. The town is large and 
populous, and within the superintendance of the police station there are no less 
than 300 villages. In 1813-14, the amount paid into the Benares treasury on 
account of customs collected here was 140,988 rupees. At one end of the 
town is a palace (which belonged to the late Saadet Ali, the Nabob of Oude) 
overhanging the GUmges, which is here wide and the current slow, and there 
are also cantonments for three regiments of cavalry. The inhabitants of this 
town and vicinity have been noted from time immemorial for their turbulent 
and. refractory spirit, and have always required the strong hand of power to 
retain them in any degree of subordination to the laws . — (Public MS.Jhcu- 
merits, Locke, 8 ^c.) 

THE DISTRICT OF MIRZAPOOR. 

This district forms one of the judicial subdivisions of the Benares province ; 
but the limits of the magisterial authority have never been accurately defined, 
nor has it any separate collector, the revenue being paid into the Benarek 
treasury. In 1801, Mirzapoor was described by the then judge as possessing a 
flourishing commerce, and being generally in a progressive state of improve- 
ment. Besides what proceeded from natural causes, the country then received 
an annual access of population, by emi^;ration from the contiguous tenitoiies 
subject to petty native chiefe, which were always agitated by internal feuds and 
dissensions. The total number of inhabitants at that date was estimate at 
900,000 souls in the country, in the proportion of one Mahommedan to 20 
Hindoos ; in the towns of 1 to 10. ifte chief town is Mirzapoor; but the di|H 
trict contains many smaller of from 5 to 10,000 inhabitants. In 1801, thMO stfli 
existed many forts built of masonry, and also the remains of many mod duns. 
Bijeeghur was then in tolerable condition, Agowin in a state of decay, ai^ CSbt* 
toghur, Be^ypoor, and Seromjah in ruins. Thffire vrere no schools W SSlni*- 
nariesfor instruction in the Hindoo or Mahommedan law, no bi»%Ss cl’ Stty 
note, nor any public edifice of mapitude. ' : , 



lilEZAPOOfl.] OF ALLAHABAD 311 

Svbflequent to the conclusion of certain arrangements made with the native 
until the commencement of 1815, the tranquillity of the frontier villt^es 
of the Mirzapoor district remained undisturbed by predatory incursions from the 
Burdee country, which had at former periods been of hich frequent occurrence. 
The renewed of these outrages, the repairing of the fortifications of Bhoparee, 
and the course of conduct pursued by Surnam Singh, and the Burdee Raja, 
rendered it necessary to adopt prompt and effectual measures, for compelling 
the latter to act in conformity with the obligations of his engagement, by not 
only desisting from the completion of the fortifications, but by demolishing the 
works already erected, and withdrawing his protection from Surnam Singh and 
his adherents. Measures were accordingly adopted for the attainment of these 
objects, without which the tranquillity of the district could not be established 
on a permanent basis, and the Raja being fully sensible of the hopelessness of 
resistance, they were accomplished without any serious difficulty. In 1815, 
offences were extremely prevalent in the pergunnah of Bhuddaee containing 803 
villages, which was ascribed by the magistrate to the local and legal pecu> 
liarities of that tract, it being entirely under the controul of the Raja of Benares. 

— {Public MS. Documents, R. Ahmuty, ^c.) 

Mirzapoob. — ^This large and flourishing town stands on the south side of 
the Ganges, about 30 miles travelling distance W, S. W. from Benares. 
Lat. 25° 10' N. long. 83® 35' E. It is at present one of the greatest inland 
trading towns, has long been, and still continues, the mart for all the cotton of 
Agra and the Maharatta countries. The inhabitants are more remarkable for their 
active industry, than in any part of the Company’s dommions out of the three 
capitals, to which they have been greatly stimulated by the energy and enter- 
prize of the British indigo planters and merchants settled among them. A 
(umsiderable quantity of filature silk is imported to Mirzapoor from Bengal, and 
panes hence to frie Maharatta dominions and central parts of Hindostan. In 
the vicinity a very durable carpetting, and various fabrics of cotton, are manufac- 
tured. In 1813-14, the amount paid into the Mirzapoor treasury on account of 
CttStoma collected was 305,073 rupees. 

In 1801, the bankers and merchants of Mirzapoor having represented to the 
magistiate of the district, that they experienced much inconvenience from the 
scarcity land for the erection of new buildings, the population having 
increased l^yond the space allotted for their accommodation; sixty begahs 
(20 acres) of land, situated between the Duncangunge gate and the river 
OangCNT, w«re m consequence allotted by government to furnish space for such 
pniiKiiM as y^ deidrous of settling in that quarter. As applications however 
veta laaebed for 1,800 houses, anti the above extent could only cbntm 600* 



312 THE PROVINCE [district of 

« 

the preference was given to persons who undertook to construct houses of 
masonry, shops, warehouses, and good dwelling-houses, and for the accom- 
modation of the less opulent class 40 additional begahs were appropriated. 
The modem town consists of handsome European houses, native habitations, 
and clusters of Hindoo temples, crowding the banks of the Ganges, and, seen 
from the river, the whole makes a very lively and animated appearance. The 
soil of this town and the adjacent lands is so strongly impregnated with saline 
particles, as materially to injure buildings composed of brick and mortar. In 
1801, Mirzapoor, by the result of a calculation made from the number of 
houses, was found to contain 50,000 inhabitants ; at present the total popula- 
tion probably considerably exceeds 60,000, the town having since not only 
enjoyed a state of uninterrupted prosperity, but received a vast accession of 
trade by the opening of the commerce with Europe, and the increased demand 
for cotton. Although so remote from the sea, bales of this useful and valuable 
commodity are sent direct to Europe, being merely transhipped at Diamond 
harbour from the boat on which they are embarked at Mirzapoor, without 
being landed in transitu at Calcutta. In 1817, 30,000 maunds of cotton, and 
a great part of the town of Mirzapoor, were destroyed by an accidental con- 
flagration. Travelling distance from Calcutta, by Moorshedabad, 764 ; by 
Birboom, 649 miles. — ( Colebrooke, Tennant, Lord VaUntia, ^'c.) 

CtiuxARfor Chandalghur ), — ^The town of Chunar is situated on the south 
side of the Ganges, about 17 miles in a straight direction S. W. from Benares. 
Lat. 25® O' N. long. 82® 54' E. In ancient times it was a place of importance, 
and had a large district attached to it, which in 1582 was described by Abul 
Fazel as follows: “ Circar Chunar, containing 18 mahals; measurement 
106,270 begahs; revenue 6,810,664 dams, seyurghal 109,066 dams. This circar 
furnishes 600 cavalry, and 18,000 infantry.” In modem times Ghunar has lost 
both its cons e quence and territory, the fortifications having been allowed to 
go to decay, and the lands attached to the adjacent jurisdictions of Mimpoor 
and Benares. 

The fortress of Chunar is, or rather was, situated on a free-stone rock» several 
hundred feet high, which rises abiuptly from the plain, and advumes some 
distance into the river. It was fortified in the Hindostany fashion vdih walls 
and towers, one behind the other, and was formerly a place of ooosiderable 
strength. The prospect from its summit is one of the finest imaginable. The 
approach to the town from the north is marked by a chain of low hfilf , rimning 
parallel to the river on its right bank, which is covered with {dimtati*^ 
bungalows. The modem town is a stn^^ng (mUectioti of natiyh jM*^ 
l^rop<^ Inmgalows. The batteries completely command tlie narigtrion of 



JUA^MVPOR.] OF ALULHABAD. 315 

liie river* and allow no boat to go up or down without examination. At certain 
■easmia of the year Chunar is excessively hot and very unhealthy. 

In 1630, Chunar was the residence of Shere Khan, the Afghan, who 
expelled the Emperor Humayoon from Hindostan. In 1575, it was taken by 
the Moguls after a siege of six months. In 1563, this fortress, after repulsing 
a night attack of the British troops, was, some time afterwards, delivered up 
without a siege, and has ever since remained in the Company’s possession ; but 
since the Bntish frontier has been carried so much further to the north and west, 
it has been superseded as a military depot by Allahabad. Travelling distance 
from Calcutta by Moorshedabad 574 miles; by Birboom 469 miles . — (Lord 
VakntUit Tennant, Gholaum Hossein, Ferishta, ^'c.) 

Bidjeeghar ( Vijayaghar).—k fortress in the district of Mira^poor. tat. 
24® 37' N. long. 83“ 10' E. about 50 miles south from Benares. .. The fort is a 
circumvallation of a hill, measuring obliquely from the immediate base to the 
summit about two miles. Its strength consists in the height and steepness of 
the hill, and the unhealthy nature of the surrounding country. In former times 
three deep reservoirs, excavated on the top of the hill, supplied the garrison with 
water. It was taken by the British forces in 1781, during the revolt of Cheit 
Singh, and has ever since been neglected, and left to go to ruin. Travelling 
distance from Benares 56 miles . — ( Forster, Rennell, ^x.) 

THE DISTRICT OF JUANPOOR. 

This district is principally situated between the 25th and 26th degrees of 
north latitude. To the north it is bounded by the Goggra and the Nabob of 
Oude’s reserved territories ; on the south by the Ganges ; to the east it has the 
Goggra; and the Oude dominions on the west. By Abul Fazel, in 1582, it is 
desoribed as follows: “ Circar Juanpoor, containing 41 mahals; measurement 
870*266 begahs; revenue 66,394,127* dams; sey^rghal 4,717,654 dams. This 
cirosr frimishes 915 cavalry, and 36,000 infantry.” 

The hmd in Juanpoor is at present under good cultivation, and very pro- 
ductive* notwithstan^ng the predominance of a sandy soil, and the intensity of 
die heet doii&g the summer season. Very little, however, is allowed to remain 
waite* end water is always to be procured from underground by human labour, 
at an sea^s of the year. In the neighbouring pergunnalis belonging to 
Oiale* a atri^mg contrast is exhibited. The quantity of land under tilla^ visibly 
by the oppression of the government, while the mangoe clumps 
wMell require tittle care are increased in number, and rank Jungle more general. 
I^heie are no ftnoes throughout this district* except occasionally where a row of 
is ^ted along the sides of the road. The surftce is slightly undo- 
voiu 1 , IS 





314 THEPROVINCB [piiwcrof 

lated, and the view is interrupted by frequent dumps of mangoe treei, but there 
are no elevations amounting to hills or mountains. The district has certainly 
experienced a progressive improvement since its acquisition by the British 
government, but the buildings and villages remain as formerly, without con- 
venience, neatness, or cleanlinei$s, it being in most cases dijficult to distinguish 
the house of the zethindar from that of the most obscure peasant. This circum- 
stance is partly to be attributed to the natural indolence and indifference of the 
occupiers ; but more to the Hindoo rile of inheritance, which enjoins an equal 
division of property, until the estate ns subdivided down to the most minute 
fractions. Most commonly the income of a landholder here seldom exceeds 
500 rupees per annum, and they have long been noted as a peculiarly turbulent 
and refractory race of people. 

In 1801, the population was found to be increasing, although individuals then 
emigrated annually to procure service with the neighbouring independent native 
princes and zemindars, who always employ more servants in the execution of 
their business, than are required under the British jurisdiction. In that year 
the magistrate reported the number of inhabitants to be 3,07 1 ,000, in the pro- 
portion of eight Hindoos to one Mahommedan ; but the sum total appears so 
enormous that it probably referred to the population of the Benares territory 
generally. There were then no private schools or seminaries for teaching the 
Hindoo or Mahommedan law; such had existed, but the lands and funds 
destined for their maintenance had long been sequestered. There are still to be 
seen the remains- of many mud forts, but none of masonry, with the exception of 
that of Juanpoor, which is constructed of stone. The principal towns are 
Juanpoor, Azimghur, and Mow. 

From the extensive frontier which this district exposes towards the resmred 
territories of the Nabob of Oude, affording an easy escape to criminals, as well as 
from the habitual turbulence of th^ zemindars, w^ are mostly Rajpoots, speedy 
justice is particularly requisite to prevent the incessant broils and quarrdb, to 
which this class have naturally so strong a propensity. Indeed, in 1813, Mdh 
was the state of Juanpoor, that it reqiired the immediate interposition of 
government to give efficiency to the police system, accidental and premeditated 
affrays having been remarkably frequent and sanguinary, and instances having 
occurred where the police officers had been obliged to return to their stations III 
cmisequence of meeting withn resistance they could not oveicome. It has hden 
Bunnised, and pn^bly with truth, that the dilatmy {oocess of the hnr courts 
is one cause to which tiie frequent occurrence of tiiese vindictive cooffiCts/ie Ip 
beasoibed i legCIsv eppllcetico to the omgistrate haviagriMMn comadwed 
mptocy, ec «t ^ evcMe ae taly pieseatii^ so distsnt a pro sp ec ti ve oC ciqr 



jVAnrooE.] OF ALLAHABAD. 315 

4edbioD« that they prefer having recourse to the more speedy arbitration of the 
sword. — (lari Valentia, Welland, Locke, 

JoAKFOOR.— This town is situated on the banks of the river Goomty, so 
named from its meandering course, about 40 miles N. W. from Benares. Lat. 
26* 46* N . long. 82® 39 E. The fort' is built of solid stone work, and rises con’ 
siderably above the level of the country, in which on all sides are seen monu> 
ments and inosques in ruins, A suburb of clay-built huts leads to a large serai, 
formed of the same materials, through which there is a bridge of considerable 
extent divided into two parts, one of which consists of 10 arches, and is over the 
boundary of the river during the dry season. This bridge has stood 260 years, 
having been erected by Monahur Khan, the governor, during the reign of Acber, 
and still remains a monument of his magnificence, and of the superior skill 
of the architect. In the year 1773, a brigade of British troops under Sir Robert 
Barker, on their way from Oude, having embarked on the river Goomty at Sul- 
tanpoor in the height of the rainy season, sailed over this bridge, which was 
then submerged, yet it suffered no damage from the violence of the current. 
No native in modem times is capable of either planning or executii^ such a 
piece of architecture. 

Juanpoor is said to have been founded by Sultan Feroze of Delhi, who named 
it after his cousin Faker ud Deen Jowna, and was for some time the seat of an 
independent empire. In the beginning of the 15th century Khaja Jehan, vitier 
to Sultan Mahommed Shah of Delhi, during the minority of the latter s son, 
assumed the title qf Sultan Shirki, or king of the east, and taking possession of 
Bahar fixed his residence at this place. This dynasty became extinct about 1492, 
before which period it had been conquered by Sultan Beloli Lodi. It was finally 
acquired by the Mogul emperors during the reign of Acber, since which period 
it has experienced a gradual decline. The majority of the inhabitants are Mahom- 
medans; but in this place also reside the Hindoo caste of Rajcoomars, with 
whom the practice of female infanticide prevailed until it was abolished by 
the British government. Travelling distance from Benares 42 miles; from 
lAlduiOw 147 miles . — ( Lord Valentia, Hodges, Ferishta, Stewart, Rennell, 8^0.) 

Zaffxrabad. — k populous town in the Allahabad province, four miles north 
firooi the dity of Juanpoor, estimated to contain 20,000 inhabitants. 

Mahowl. — A town in the Allahabad province, 42 miles north from Juanpoor. 
Lat 28* 20^ N. long. 83* 38' E. 

AaiifOHUR. — ^This town is situated about 37 miles N. E. from Juanpoor. 
Lat 24® 6' N. long. 83“ 10' E. A considerable, quantity of cotton cloths are 
aahiifiietmed in this town and the adjacent country, and fimnerly also a 
4|itttit^y of opium; but this interfering with the Company’s monopoly of that 

safi 



316 THE PROVINCE [district of rertah. 

* 

drug, its production was prohibited. — ^Azimghur was ceded by the Nabob of 
Oude in 1801. 

Doortohaut (Durigkat ). — town in the Allahabad province, 37 miles 
S. by E; from Goracpoor. Lat. 26’ 16' N. long. 83* 32' E. 

Mow. — ^This town was ceded by the Nabob of Oude in 1801, and was then a 
town of considerable commerce. It stands on the west side of frie Looijew 
river, 63 miles N. E. from Benares. Lat. 25* 67' N. long. 83* 37' E. 

REWAH. 

' /This town and district composed a fourth part of the ancient circar of Cal- 
linjer, and with Sohagepoor was dismembered from Bhatta by Aurengzebe, and 
nominally annexed to Allahabad; but it does not appear according to the 
European sense of the phrase, that this space was ever effectually brought under 
subjection to the Mogul government, although tribute was occasionally exacted. 
The town of Rewah stands on the banks of the Bichanuddy river, which runs 
under the fort, in lat. 24* 34' N. long. 81“ 19' E. 69 miles S. by W. from the city 
of Allahabad. The Raja's house is in the fort, which is of stone and very large ; 
the suburbs arr *‘.vteu»ive, and the country contains several other walled towns, 
such as Mow, Rs^^p'bor, Muckondabad, and Douree. The chief rivers are the 
Tonsa, the Goggra, and the Buheer, and within this tract are found several 
cataracts, such as those of the Tonsa and Baheer rivers, and another near to Keuta, 
about 20 miles from Lowr, at the confluence of the Mohanna stream with a small 
rivulet, the perpendicular height of which is said to be 300 feet. 

The Rewah and Singhranab districts are situated between the 24th and 26Ui 
degrees of north Iktitude, and present a waving surface, diverRified with groves, 
tanks, and numerous rivulets. The soil is good, and water everywhere found 
a few feet under ground, irrigation is consequently much practi 2 ed, nor is there 
so much jungle as might have been expected in a region so long subject to the 
misgovemment of petty native chiefs. The villages and habitations appear neat 
and cleanly, and the state of agriculture creditable to the cultivators; but wheeleid 
carriages are rare. There are at present no temples of note within Uie district 
but the ruins of several are still extant, and several immense tanks are to be 
seen. Near Raypoor are the ruins of some ancient temples whkh appear to 
have been stately fabrics. 

The modem dominions of the Rewah Raja border for a considerable distaiice 
on the south eastern frontier of the most eastern portion of Bundelomd^ and 
join to that part the Allahabad district situated to the rig^t of Iwana* 
Ip 1810, these temtories were an asylum to aU makoiiteiits and oi|nM« both 



OF ALLAHABAD. 


BVHSX1.CVKD.] 


317 


ftom die Bridth ceded dietricts, and from those belonging to the Nabob ojf Oude. 
Hie Si&i^iraiiah district was then controuled by five native chiefs, whose posses* 
H(HM, comprehesidiiig from 80 to 100 villages each, were subdivided into seve- 
ral zemindaries ; but the Mow Raja was the most powerful, and the hereditary 
chief of the Singhranies. From aU these, however, the Raja of Rewah, when suffi* 
dendy powerfrd, was accustomed to levy tribute. In 1813, the Rewah territory 
had become a complete scene of anarchy and robbery, the raja being unable to 
repress the depredations of his feudatories, who treacherously hung upon the 
rear of die British forces marching through their country ; and on one occasion 
c ut off and destroyed a small escort. A detachment was in consequence sent 
to root out this banditti, which commenced by storming the mud fort of En* 
tourree, and putting the garrison to the sword. Surnaid Singh, the leader of the 
den of thieves, finding he could not escape, strewed a quantity of gunpowder on 
a doth, in which he rolled himself, and having set it on fire, thus terminated his 
existence. After this event, the detachment proceeded to execute the remainder 
ci the plan of the campaign, and many other petty forts of the same description 
were levelled with the ground, to the great joy of the peaceably disposed inha- 
bitants. The annual rent of the tract permanently annexed to the British 
territories in 1813, was 40,000 rupees, without including Choorhat or Raypoor. 
— f/. Grcmt, PubUc Printed Documents, Richardson, ^c. 8^c.) 

Dourxe. — K tovim in the Allahabad province, 42 miles S. S.E. from Jhansi. 
Lat. 24* 62' N. long, sr 41' E. 

CooRHUT (oT Choorhut ), — A town in the Allahabad province, 30 miles E.S.E. 
from Rewah. Lat. 24* 29' N. long. 81“ 47' E. It is governed by a chief named 
the Row of Choorhut. 

Mow -— Thi» town is situated about 76 miles S. W . from Benares, and is the 
seat of the chief of the Singhranee tribe. Ut. 24* 37' N. long. 81“ 66' E. 


THE DISTRICT OF BUNDELCUND (Bandelkhand). 

This large division of the Allahabad province is situated principally between 
the 24th and 26th degrees of north latitude, and is formed of the whole circar 
mentioned by Abul Fazel under the name of Ahmedabad Gohrah, with three* 
fourtha ci thM of CalUnjer, stretching north to the southern bank of the Jumna, 
over an extent of 11,000 square miles. The country is high and mountainous, 
and but imperfectly cultivated. The summits of the hills, although mostly 
rocky# are covered with small coppice wood, there being few timber trees of a 
large st i ff. About Adjyghur, the whole of the ghauts, mid almost every hill in 
thif pMl of Bundelcund, is a table land, and the country one of the strongest in 
^be eawjr bin being A natural fortress fiwn its great height and steep* 



318 TBEPBOTINCE [pimietor 

nett. The &ce of the country pretenti detached patcfaet jungle ; the toil it 
in many placet, but not generally, rich, and producet a number (d* trai tfeet, 
which appear to be of a battard Irind, being very ttunted in their growth. Evmt 
in 1814, the population of the dittrict was scanty, and the villages were generally 
situated at a great distance from each other. The Bundelcund dialect it spoken 
in the district, in a territory lying due west of Allahabad, and along the of 
the Jumna from Mow to Calpee. It is a derivative from the Sanscrit, and meelb 
the Malwa on the west, the Bruj on the north, and the Maharatta on the aout4i> 
The specimen of thfe Lord's prayer, examined by the missionaries, was found to 
contain 25 words found also in the BengEdese and Hindostany specimens. 

This district is chiefly comprehended betweeen the Betwah and the Cane 
rivers, but has no river of much consequence flowing through it. The south 
western frontier towards Gundwana, begins a few miles south of the village of 
Dowra. Lat. 24* N. long. 80“ 46' E. The famous diamond mines of Pannah, 
which in the reign of Acber were valued at eight lacks of rupees, are vrithin the 
boundaries of Bundelcund, but are not now so productive ; the other princijm! 
towns are Banda (the head quarters and residence of the magistrate), Callinjer, 
Teary, Jyhtpoor, Chatterpoor, Jhansi, Dulteen, and Bejaour. Under the native 
chiefs who ruled during the last and preceding centuries, the government of the 
country was denominated the Hindupati of Bundelcund ; the rajas being of the 
Bundela tribe of Rajpoots. The founder of this family was Raja Beer Singh, 
from whom the family of the Oorcha chief is descended. The greater part of 
his dominions was wrested from him by Raja Chuttersal, who was the last sole 
possessor of the Bundelcund province, then estimated to produce a land revenue 
of one crore (ten millions) of rupees annually. At that period its capital was 
Callinjer, but Uie residence of the raja was Pannah, situated above the ghauts, 
and celebrated for its diamond mines. 

During the government of Raja Chuttersal, Bundelcund was invaded by Ma- 
hommed Khan Bungish, the Patan chief of Furruckalmd, and the Peshwa Sewai 
Bajerow was invited from the Deccan to assist in repelling die invasion. When 
this was effected, the Raja adopted the Peshvra as his son, and divided his terri- 
tory between his two sons, Hird^ Sah and Juggeth Sah, and the Perilivro, his 
son by adoption. The two portions assign^ to Rirdee and Juggeth Sah, ccm- 
tinued to be held by their numerous descendants, or by the nominal a^Uierents 
and declining branches of that family, until along series of domaitic dissension 
and civil war in the Bundelcund province had prepared it for .sidi|u|atioa by & 
foreign power. 

Madhajee Sindia, during his last and successfid attmnpt in 1708, dh the ex- 
^ring Delhi soverriguty, was acccHupaiiied by ft strcuiv dfttftdhmeiiteiOedcanny 



9vyoB&co]n>.] OF ALLAHABAD. 319 

ttoopi) imdeT the command of Ali Bahauder, an illegitimate grandson of (he first 
Pe^WEt BajMToWf by a Mahommedan woman. The Peshwa's object in Tnarptiin g 
this body of troops, was to obtain possession of the northern districts of the 
Doab, of the Ganges, and Jumna, to be governed by Ali Bahauder as his repre> 
sentarive. In the army of Madhajee Sindia was also the late Raja Himmut 
Bahauder, a powerful commander of a large body of horse, and of a numerous 
party of Gosains or Nangas, a peculiar class of armed beggars and religious de- 
votees, and of whom Raja Himmut was not only the military leader, but also 
tlM» spiritual guide. This chief, falling under the suspicion of Sindia, took refuge 
under the ZureenPutka, or principal banner of the Maharatta empire, which 
had been entrusted by the Peshwa on this expedition to Ali Bahauder, and is 
always guarded by a select body of troops. In consequence of this measure a 
breach ensued between Sindia and Ali Bahauder, whose views on the Doab 
were wholly frustrated ; Sindia determining to establish his own independent 
authority in that country. 

Ali Bahauder, thus disappointed of aggrandizement in Upper Hindostan, pre- 
pa^ to return to Poona, but destitute of funds for the support of his army ; 
when in this distress, Raja Himmut Bahauder suggested to him the entire 
conquest of Bundelcund, of which country he was a native ; and an agreement 
was concluded between them, by the conditions of which a large portion of 
the province was, when conquered, to be consigned to the independent manage- 
ment of Raja Himmut Bahauder, and the revenue appropriated to the support 
of the troops which he engaged to maintain in the service of Ali Bahauder. 
The distracted and turbulent state of the province was such, that an invitation 
was soon received from one of the contending parties, and the invasion under- 
taken, A. D. 1789. In a short time the country was nearly wholly subdued, 
but it required several years before the Maharatta authority could be properly 
established in a region where every village was a fortress ; and in fact, accord- 
ing to European ideas, its reduction never was accomplished. 

At riiis p^iod an arrangement was made with the Peshwa, by which he was 
acknowle^ed the sovereign and paramount lord of all the conquests made by 
Ali Bahl^er in Bundelcund, who engaged to obey him and furnish a tribute, 
hut nek be y of these conditions were in reality ever fulfilled. In the mean time* 
H^a Btimmut 'Bahauder, afraid that the return of tranquillity would bring 
^hout IIm downfid of his own power, was continually exciting disaffection and 
AistuiiMiiKiel in afl the districts subject to the Maharattas^ in which efforts he 
^ Wfl| seomided by the restless and turbulent dispositions the native 
AB Bahauder died in 1802, during the blockade of Cal- 
imeii he was imeble. to take, hiving bam 14 yean employed in the re- 



320 * THE PROVINCE {diitbxct of 

duction of Bundelcund ; at the end of which his progress was no greater than 
it had been in the third year. Shumshere Bahander, his third son, was then in 
his 18th year,' and resident at Poona, and Raja Himmut Bahander, whose in*^ 
duence was now predominant, appointed a distant Mahonunedan relation, 
named Ghunee Bahauder, to act as regent during his absence. 

About this time the war of the British with Dowlet Row Sindia and the 
other Maharatta chiefs originated, consequent to the treaty of Bassein with the 
Peshwa ; and it appeared the intention of Holkar to use the influence of Shum- 
shere Bahauder as a means of invading the British possessions in the Benares 
province, through Bundelcund. Raja Himmut Bahauder also, foreseeing the 
annihilation of his own power by the success of the latter, determined tb en- 
deavour to effect the transfer of the province to the British, on securing an 
advantageous indemnity for himself. When aflPairs were in this state, a proposal 
was made on the part of the Peshwa, for a cession of a portion of territory in 
Bundelcund, in lieu of the districts in the Deccan, which had been ceded by the 
treaty of Bassein. This proposition having been accepted by the British govern- 
ment, a deed of cession to the East India Company of territory in Bundelcund 
of 32 lacks and 16,000 rupees, in place of the subsidy, and of four lacks for the 
expense of subduing it. By this arrangement, the Peshwa, whose authority 
over the conquests of Ali Bahauder had been merely nominal, and who had 
never derived any revenue from it, was enabled to liquidate the claims of the 
British government, for the payment of the subsidiary force which protected 
his hereditary possessions. 

The occupation of the province of Bundelcund during the war by the British 
troops, became necessary for the defence of the countries in the Doab, as well 
as of the town and district of Mirzapoor, and the city of Benares, which were 
ali exposed to invasion from this quarter : nor without it could the secure navi- 
gation of the Jumna be depended on, from the restless and turbulent characters 
of the Bundela chiefs. Subsequent to this period, while the British detachment 
was occupied with the siege and conquest of Calpee, a conciliatory n^iociation 
was opened with Shumshere Bahauder, to whom a territory of 4 lacks of rupees 
per annum was secured in the Peshwa’s remaining share of Bundricun4f of 
which he was afterwards appointed governor. With the Soubahdar Jhaasi, 
and the Rajas of Dulteen and Simtheer, conciliatory arrangements were also 
concluded, and a short time afterwards with the l^as of Chuckwee, 
poor and Bejaour ; and by the measures then adopted, every hereditary ch^ain, 
who possessed power or influence in Bundelcund, wsa either ctmofliiiied or 
subdued, and Ae country generally placed in due snti{fectiOii to 
authority, Rt^ Himmut Bahauder died in 1814, after wldtihi hu tmritoxies 



BunrDsi^viTD.] OF ALLAHABAD. 321 

KiPere resumed by the British government, his irregular troops disbanded, and 
his fiunily provided for. 

On the acquisition of this province in 1804, Bundelcund was formed into the 
jurisdiction of a magistrate, subordinate to the Benares court of circuit, but 
sin<» that period its geographical distribution has undergone various modifica- 
tions. At present, on the extensive boundaries of Bundelcund are situated the 
territories df Nana Govind Row of Calpee; of Siva Row Bhow, the soubahdar 
of Jhansi; of Bickermajeet Singh, the Raja of Aurebah and Tehree ; and also 
the territory of Raja Murdun Singh ; the district of Bellary and Jubbulpoor, be- 
longing to the Nagpore Raja; and the territories of the Raja of Rewah and 
other petty chiefs which intervene between the eastern boundaries of Bundel- 
cund; the dominions of the Nagpoor Raja, and that part of the Allahabad 
district situated to the south of the Jumna. 

With all the above chiefs, actual treaties of amity existed in 1807 on the part 
of the British government, except the Raja Bickermajeet of Aurebah and 
Tehree ; the Raja Murdun Singh of Gurrahkota, and the Raja of Rewah. The 
Bondela chiefs being thus relieved from all apprehension of violence and extor- 
tion, and confirmed in the possession of their legitimate rights, it was expected 
that their interests would be permanently concerned in maintaining a faithful 
adherence to the superior power, and that a habitual sense of fealty and obli- 
gation would induce them cheerfully to submit their disputes to its arbitra- 
tion and decision, which would otherwise furnish an interminable source of 
i^tation and warfare. It was not, however, intended to guarantee to the several 
chiefs their respective possessions against any other power than our own. The 
stipularions to which they bound themselves, were in return for the recognition 
of their rights, and for their security against any attempts on the part of the 
British government to disturb the enjoyment of them. It was then thought, 
that to guarantee the several chiefs against the effect of those mutual differences 
and 4ispttte8 to which they are, from their martial and uncivilized habits, pecu- 
Uariy addicted, would have involved the troops stationed in the province in a 
scMM of perpetual conflict, and laid the foundation of unceasing disorder. In 
this pvedimuenent, the only probable means of preventing or limiting these con- 
tesli, was to require them to submit their differences to the decision of the 
govmament, which, however, refused all guarantee of their respective 
potsatrions. This extreme and over anxious caution arose from the inconve- 
netda&ee experienced in consequence of defensive alliances with petty states, 
and a great solicitude to avoid the necessity of active interference in their affrirs, 
Itt lwwOT«r» when the plunderer, Meer Klmn, approached the frontier and 
re< |i i ii^ hytoated wha^ petty states were under British protection, he 



322 , THE PROVINCE [Dismicrof 

was told, that not only Raja Kishore Singh, and Raja Bukht Singh, hut all 
those persons who held their lands under a sunnud from the British govemmmit 
were considered to be under its protection, in which number were compre> 
hended the Raja of Ditteah, and the Subahdar of Jhansi. Ten years subsequent 
experience has evinced, that the form of government thus bestowed on the Bon* 
dela chiefs, although devoid of external symmetry, is quite sufficient to insure 
the revival of agriculture and commerce, and to renovate the prosperity of a 
region that had been desolated for half a century 
The exposed situation of Bundelcund, from its having so extensive a line of 
frontier, open on all sides except the east to attacks of banditti from the terri- 
tories of the neighbouring independent chiefs, must render the peace of the 
district, and security of the inhabitants, in some respects precarious even under . 
the operation of tlie best regulated police. The civil power, also, acted under 
obvious disadvantages in its endeavours towards the establishment of those 
arrangements which constitute an efficient police, in a district which has been 
so much the scene of military exploits' as Bundelcund. But, notwithstanding 
these untoward circumstances, on a comparative view of the offences committed 
in the respective districts of the Benares division in 1811 , fewer crimes of atro- 
city appear to have been perpetrated in Bundelcund, than in any of the others ; 
and it further appears, that crimes have not been prevalent in it, at any period 
of time since its annexation to the British dominions. The few instances that 
occur of incursions being made into Bundelcund by banditti residing beyond the 
western frontier, compared with what occurs in the neighbouring district of 
Agra, is not certainly owing to any superiority of the Bundelcund police, but 
to the influence and controul which the magistrate, in his capacity of political 
agent to the governor-general, exercises over the conduct of the independent 
chiefs, which has practically been found effectual in procuring their ready com- 
pliance with requisitions Wing reference to the peace of the district.* Ibe 
interposition of this influence also proves equally efficacious in obviating the 
embarrassments that might otherwise arise in the judicial and revenue depart- 
ments, in consequence of certain natives of high rank holding extensive landed 
possessions under an exemption from ihe ordinary jurisdiction of the courts, 
Footpad robbery and cozzauky, or robbery on horsebadk, are the only serious 
offences prevalent. The first usually happens towards the skirts of the diariict, 
near the ghauts or passes, and the latter is almost exclusively confided to the 
pergunnahof Koonch, where the cozzauks naake their appearmice, and 
return to the narrow slip of country bdong^g to Bowlet Row Bhnlia^ J^ 
vemng betwiMto the northern boundary of Bundeteiu^ 
erf Agm, which is the only part of the district liable to the ncttfaio&a el 
marauders. . ' ■ m 



8uvi>£x.cvirD.] OF ALLAHABAD. 3^ 

From the records of the magistrate’s oiSce, it does not appjear that the crime 
of j^g robbery was ever general in Bundelcund. Most of the Bondelas are 
possessed of but little personal property, and there is little fnftrr>hBnHiTA ©r 
floating capital stirring within its limits. Neither is it the custom, as in other 
districts, for the merchants and bankers to have their property sent by 
messengers, or foot carriers, a practice which offers the greatest temptation to 
the commission of gang robbery. This species of crime is also attended with 
extraordinary risk in Bundelcund, where the population is so scanty, that the 
personal character and circumstances of every individual are known, at and 
near the place of his residence, and the country is so open and bare of jungle, 
that it would be impossible for a gang of any magnitude to commit depreda- 
tions, and afterwards conceal themselves from the researches of the police. 
Banditti attempting to enter the district would probably be intercepted by the 
frontier chiefs under British protection, while endeavouring to penetrate the 
interior; but this remark does not apply to the boundaries contiguous to 
Sindia’s dominions, from whence small parties of Pindarries occasionally enter, 
and retreat with the utmost rapidity. 

Burglaries and thefts are not crimes of frequent occurrence in Bundelcund. 
This is partly owing to the same causes which tend to the suppression of gang 
robberies ; but is also ascribable to the dispositions and habits of the land- 
holders, which are altogether adverse to the practice, so common in all the 
other districts under the Bengal Presidency, of harbouring thieves and robbers, 
with a view to participate in their booty. Occasional instances may be 
discovered of zemindars conniving at criminal acts, but these are restricted 
to the lowest classes, the Bundelcund landed proprietors considering it highly 
disreputable to their characters, should a thief be found domiciliated on their 
farms or estates, and on this account they frequently expel from their villages 
persons of suspected character. The inhabitants also are industrious and 
obedient to the constituted authorities, and the proportion of Mahommedans, 
whom the most dissolute and disorderly members of society are usually 
found, bear but a small ratio to the whole number. Under the former native 
govetnments, the village watchmen were held responsible by the zemindars, 
and .Abe latter by the controuling power, for the recovery or reimbursement of 
stoleik property. In 1815, the magistrate had 47 police stations under his 
control^ some situated 70 and 80 miles from head quarters. 

The avenge jiunma, or Imid-assessment to the revenue, before the cession of 
diie |0^tbry» was 3,741,104 rupees; but little dependence could be placed on 
the accounts, and the imperfection of the public records was such as 

lendtt them wholly inadequate to g<dde the jud^mit of goveromeiit, eite 

T T 2 


3 .3 



324 THE PROVIKCE [distbicv or 

detemining on the sufficiency of the present rate, or in estimating the avaihffile 
resources of the province. 

Rupees. 

The jumma of Bundelcund in the financial year 1216 (1809-10) was 2,4^981 


Ditto 1217 ( 1810 - 11 ) 2,710,890 

Ditto 1218 ( 1811 - 12 ) 2,814,779 

Ditto 1219 ( 1812 - 13 ) 2,886,161 

Ditto 1220 ( 1813 - 14 ) 2,885,430 


C Public MS. Documents, Guthrie, J. Grant, Scott, Ironside, Remelt, ^c. Sgc.) 

ViNDHYA Mocxtaixs. — ^The Vindhyan chain of mountains, by which the 
great Gangetic plain is bounded on the south, commences in the province of 
Bahar, from whence it probably extends to Ramisseram in the straits of Ceylon, 
near to what is called Cape Comorin ny the Europeans. One ridge of hills 
begins at Rhotas and Sasseram on the banks of the Sone, passes behind Mirza- 
poor and Allahabad, and between Banda and Singpoor takes a large sweep to 
the south, then bends north to Gualior, and from thence behind Agra and Delhi, 
being the northern boundary of the Vindhyan mountains; but it nowhere 
attains to any great altitude. The portion of this ridge that passes through 
Bundelcund, has a very similar appearance to the part of the same range that 
passes through the Shahabad district in Bahar, only it is less sterile and ru^d, 
for the trees in ihost places ascend to the very summit of the hills, and it is 
only in particular parts, that the table land on the top is bounded by an abrupt 
precipice of rock, such as surrounds the whole eastern el&d of the ridge. On 
the summit of this range is a table land of great extent, from 500 to 1200 feet of 
perpendicular height above the level of the great Gangetic plain. From Rie side 
next the Ganges there project many small ridges of the same composition, which 
extend towards the Ganges and Jumna, as at Sasseram, Chunar, Miixapoor, 
Allahabad, and at Famos, where a ridge not only penetrates across the channel 
of the Jumna, as others in several places do, but rises into a small rocky hill on 
the east side, thus forming the oidy hill in the ancient kmgdom of Antaiheda, 
now called the Doab. — ( F. Buchanan^ ^x.) 

Banda.— This place is situated about 90 miles west of the feMSes of 
Allahabad, and as the residence of the public functionaries is now the modem 
capital of Bundelcund. Lat. 25® 30' N. long. 80* 20' E, The country imme- 
diately adjacent consists chi^y of small grained granite, soam idhach 
contms red felspar, white quartz, and black mica; while some is t»mi|»0M^ of 
white felspar and quartz, with black mica. Besides the panite, eon- 

tains also la^ masses of quartz and felspar, Tory irregtWy mimid* 
aggisi^atad mtb <me solid rock. Th> term of which a ifew jhIP* s®o 



Bu>r]>Ei:<ci7irD.] OF ALLAHABAD. 325 

ym mtiUage of no great tbe, is now become a large and popnloni place, its pros- 
perity having been greatly accelerated by the gunge, or mart, and other works 
erected by Mr. Richardson, while magistrate of the district.— BacAmam, 
(hahrkt ^.) 

Mauobah. — ^A large town in the province of Allahabad, but at present 
mostly in ruins, 28 miles S. W. from Banda. Lat. 25® 20' N. long. 79® 5' E. 
Around this town many temples, tombs and ruins are scattered, a 

former state of opulence and importance; and on the rocky height above the town 
are the remains of a fortress. Near to Mahobah there is a large tank formed by 
raising a vast dam of large granite stones, from hill to hill across a valley, where, 
during the rains, a body of water two miles in circumference accumulates. — 

( FUzclarence, &;c.) 

Pankaii (Patma ). — This town stands on a barren rocky plain above the 
ghauts. Lat. 24® 45' N. long. 80® 13' E. 37 miles S. E. from Chatterpoor, 

15 from Adjyghur. It is still an extensive place, and contains several large 
dwelling houses built of' stone, besides many handsome temples, in one 
of which is an idol, reported to have a diamond eye of immense value and 
brilliancy. There are also numerous large tanks, or lakes of water, abounding 
with geese, ducks, and other aquatic birds ; and on the margin of the largest are 
•till to be seen the ruins of a palace, in which Raja Chuttersal resided when 
sovereign of Bundelcund, defended by two small forts joined by a stone wall, 
which protected the palace on the flanks and rear, while the taxdc rendered all 
approach in front impracticable. 

In approaching Pannah from Banda, the table land above the.ascent is more 
levd and freer from rocks than that in the Shahabad district, but it exhibits no 
•tgns of cultivation, even within three miles of Pannah. The whole plain on the 
table land for several miles round Pannah in all directions, wherever it happens 
to be of a gravelly nature is said to produce diamonds. In most parts the soil is 
nay red, in others it has only a slight tinge of that colour, and is of a dark 
brown. Hiis soil is from 2 to 8 cubits deep, and, where diamonds are found, 
many «mall pebbles. The diamonds are found intermixed with these, 
but never adhering to any stone or pebble. The workmen lift up the gravelly 
earth, tibtow it into a shallow pit filled with water, and wash out the earth. 
They t he n spread the gravel thin on a smooth piece of board, and separate the 
ttseleff t pebbles with their hands, moving eight or ten pieces at a time, so that 
nO'dlatBimid ***** escape their notice. Many days are thus spent without success, 
bain very few di«n>f>nda in the course of the year repay the workman for his 
hfojw* 'Rm grater j«oportion of the diammids are not worth more than 500 

number m fonnd worth from 500 to lOOO rupees, 



326 THE PROVINCE [dwtrict or 

very few« exceeding the sum last mentioned. The Pannah Raja is said to 
possess one valued at 50,000 rupees, for which he cannot find a purchaser. The 
whole diamonds are collected at one house, where they are weighed and sold 
to the merchants residing at Pannah. The workmen are allowed about three- 
fourths of the value of those about the size of a pea, or still smaller ; two-thirds 
of the value of tliose about the size of a hazel nut ; and one-half of the value of 
those larger than a filbert ; but of these last few are discovered. Any man may 
dig who pleases, and it is said that on an average, about 1000 men are em- 
ployed in the search. The Raja has guards all round, and some watchmen 
attend the labourers, but no precaution to hinder smuggling is apparent. The 
workmen are mostly Rajpoots, and seemingly in great poverty. The men 
appointed to guard them are common Peons, whose virtue certainly within the 
British territories is not usually found impregnable, but probably the prompt 
punishment, and barbarous severity of such petty chiefs as the Pannah Raja, 
who possesses the power of life and death, terrifies them from frequent breaches 
of trust. The workmen on the spot assert, that the generation of diamonds is 
always going forward, and that they have just as much chance of success in 
searching earth that has been fourteen or fifteen years unexamined, as in digging 
what has never been disturbed. 

These diamond mines are supposed to have been the Panassa of Ptolomy. 
During the reign of Acber they were estimated at eight lacks of rupees annually, 
and they also formed a considerable source of public revenue, as well as of mer- 
cantile profit during the government of the native chiefs of Bundelcund, and of 
Ali Bahadur, its last Maharatta conqueror. During the reign of Raja Chutter- 
sal (about A.D. 1750), the duties levied at Pannah, and the profits accruing to 
government fronrthe diamond mines, were estimated at 4 l^ks of rupees 
annum ; their modem profits are supposed to be comparatively insignificant, and 
are wholly relinquished to the native chiefs by the British govemment.-- 
(F, Buchanan, Tvxmlow, MSS. ^c.) 

Kuckeuetlee. — A town in the province of Allahabad, 38 mules S. W. 
from Callinjer. Lat. 24® 30' N. long. 79® 37' E. 

Loh ARGoxG. — ^This place stands ab</&t 40 miles S. by W. from CaUtqjcff wd 
has for ten years past been a nDiilitary post of some importance, bdng mbeii^ 
to maintain tiie line of communication between Bundelcund and tlw> British 
forces stationed in the Nagpoor dominitms and at Hosseinabad. Tbs gqvwriimmht 
has in consequence incurred the expense of deepemr^ a tank and dhipg^: twn 
wells 40 feet in depth, the last 20 feet through a bed of s<did rock. 

Jeitpoor.— A town in the province of Allahabad, 22 atitea 
Chat«^poor, fjit 38® iV lon^ 72® S, 



BUKoxtcvKo.] OF ALLAHABAD. 3£7 

Kwtahkbe,— A town in the province of Allahabad, 9 miles N.N. W. from 
Chatterpoor. Lat. 25® 2' N. long. 79® 37' E. 

Mulhara C Midahara).—k town in the Allahabad province, 10 miles N. from 
Chatterpoor. Lat. 26® 4' N. long. 79® 45' E. 

PutLEHRA.—A town in the province of Allahabad, 21 miles N. W. from 
Chatterpoor. Lat. 25® 2' N. long. 79® 19' E. 

ATfARA.— A town in the Allahabad province, 16 miles N. from Callinier. 
Ut. 26® 20' N. long. 80® 35' E. 

Chatterpoor (Chattrapiira ). — ^This town is situated below the ghauts, about 
135 miles W. S. W. from the city of Allahabad. Lat. 24® 56' N. long. 79® 40' E. 
It was founded, while Bundelcund was ruled by its native chiefs, by Raja Chut- 
tersal, and wns occasionally his place of residence, which rendered it flourishing 
and an important commercial mart, being a sort of inland enterport for the trade 
carried on between Mirzapoor and the Deccan. From this city, and from the 
diamond mines of Pannah, almost the whole of the sayer duties -were levied, 
as there was then no other mercantile town of magnitude in Bundelcund ; these 
duties, in the town of Chatterpoor alone, are said to have amounted to four lacks 
of rupees per annum. Chatterpoor is extensive and well built, the houses being 
mostly of stone ; but compared with its former flourishing condition it is now 
desolate. When Bundelcund was ceded to the British, this town, with a g^at 
portion of the surrounding territory, was occupied by Kooar Loni Sah, one of 
the innumerable petty chiefs of that distracted province. Travelling distance 
from Agra 212 miles ; from Benares 237 ; from Nagpoor 302 ; from Oujeen 320 ; 
from Calcutta 698 ; and from Bombay 747 miles. — ( MSS, Iromkk, RenncU, S^c.) 

. Rajeohur (Rajaghar).~A town in the Allahabad province, 24 miles S, E. 
froBa Chatterpoor. Lat. 24® 45' N. long. 79® 69' E. 

Callit? JER. — ^This town and fortress are situated in the Bundelcund district, 
about 836 miles W. S. W. from the city of Allahabad. Lat. 25® 6' N. long. 80^ 
26' £. By Abul Fazel, in 1682, it is described as follows : “ Callinjer is a stone 
foit, situated on a lofty mountain. Here is an idol named Kalbihroop, 18 cubits 
in height. At the distance of 20 coss from the fort, husbandmen sometimes find 
small dkmoods, and in the neighbourhood is an iron mine.” At that period this 
pdat^ was of such importance as to have a considerable tract of country in the 
province attached to it, of which the following is the description from 
tihe saam authority. “Circar Callinjer, containing 11 mahals; measurement 
begahs, revenue 23,839,474 dams; seyurghal 614,580 dams. Tlus 
1210 cavalry, 12 elephants, and 18,000 infentry.” 

Ri^ of dallinjer dre mentioned by the Mahommedaa historians so early as 
A.D. 1008 ^ Init it was not conquered until 1208 , and thmi not permanemly 



528 THE PROVINCE [oimicv of 

retained. In 1545 it was stormed by the troops of Shore Khim, the Afjg(haii» 
who lost his life during the assault by the explosion of some ammunition. In 
1603 the town and district were ceded to the British by the Maharatta Peshwa, 
along with the rest of Bundelcund, in exchange for other lands nearer his own 
capital. The Maharattas had long claimed tribute from this territory, but derived 
no benefit from it, being in reality utterly unable to enforce their authority, or 
to coerce the inhabitants of a country so strong by nature, and so turbulently 
disposed. 

The fortress of Callinjer reseinbles in its situation, and exceeds that of Gualior 
in size and strength. It is built on a high rock of great extent, which forms one 
of the ranges of mountains extending from Rhotas or Sasseram to the confines of 
Ajmeer ; and the works are so extensive, that to garrison it sufficiently would 
require a body of 5000 men. After the invasion of Bundelcund by Ali Bah8.uder 
and Raja Himmut Bahauder, the siege of this place was attempted ; but at an 
early period, for want of a battering train, was converted into a blockade, which 
lasted for many years, and without ultimate success. The power and influence of 
the Kelladar of Callinjer were the chief obstacles to the success of Ali Bahauder, 
during the five last years of his life, and compelled him to encamp a considerable 
part of his army in the vicinity of that fortress. The same opposition with 
increased energy was continued after the cession of the country to the British, 
and Callinjer became an asylum for all the disaffected and banditti in the 
province. After many ineffectual attempts to obtain possession by an amicable 
arrangement with the kelladar, or governor, it was in 1812 besieged in form by a 
British detachment, which was repulsed with great slaughter in an attempt to 
carry this nearly impregnable fortress by storm. The garrison, however, although 
victorious, were so intimidated by the desperation of the assault, that they 
surrendered the place a few days afterwards on capitulation. 

Sevrah. — A town in the Allahabad province, 21 miles N. by W. fiom 
CaUinjer. Lat. 25" 21' N. long. 80* 2Qf E. 

Murfah.— -A town in the province of Allahabad, 14 miles £. N. £. ftwa 
Callinjer. Lat. 25" 12' N. long. 80" 4^ £. 

Bisramohaut.— A pass, or road, on^ the range of mountains near AdHyn^itr, 
and leading firom Callinjer to Pannah. It is a mile in lei^fffi, and of vwry diffic u l t 
ascent for art^ery or wheeled carriages. In the cmitre there is some table land 
and a well of go^ water, but on the top water cannot be procured, so tbit a 
detachment must either proceed two miles fiulherto a small rivulet, or to Pmaab, 
which is eleven miles firom the bottom of the itfc*) 

BucBoirx.-r-A town in the Alhdiabbd province, 27 miles W* bp 
Cattinjcr. l^it. 25* Sf N. long. 80 * 7 ' & 



BusJDEtcwKD.] OP ALLAHABAD. 329 

Awtohob.— T bw place is situated in lat. 26* N. long. 80"15'E. at nearly 
•i|iial> diatences from CaUinjer and Pannah. The fortress consists of a wall of 
loose 8ton», raised round the edge of a very high and steep hill. The table land 
within the fort is a mile in length by 7 or 800 yards the average breadth, covered 
witt stones and coarse grass, except in some places which have been cleared by 
the officers and men on duty. It is inaccessible except by the paths which have 
been made up to the different gates, which are defended by many walls and gates, 
one be}^ another, and all of difficult ascent. Within the fort are three large 
reservoirs of water cut in solid rock, and the ruins of three Hindoo temples. 
The name signifies the impregnable fortress. 

In 1809, it Mras besieged by a British army, and after a stout resistance, in 
which considerable loss was experienced by the assailants, was evacuated by 
the garrison. When the family of Lutchmau Dowah, the refractory zemindar of 
Adjyghur, was ordered to be removed, an old man. his father in law, was sent 
into the women’s apartments,' to prepare the females for their removal. He not 
returning alter some time had elapsed, the house was entered by the roof, when 
it was found he had cut the throats of all the women and children, eight in num- 
ber, and afterwards his own. The deed must have been perpetrated entirely 
with the consent and. assistance of the females, as the persons stationed at the 
door never heard the slightest cries while the catastrophe was performing. 
('TVemfow, IIM Regi^et* MSS. ^c. ) 

Kaoone. — ^A- large village, meanly built with mud and tiles, situated about 
*30 miles south of Osllinjer. Lat. 24* 37’ N. long. 80® 35* E. Near to Nagone is a 
fort consisting of two stone walls, one within the other, surrounded by a ruinous ' 
d|tch. Witffiin this fort the Raja or chief of Nagone resides with his family. 

SoBAUL. — A town in the Allahabad province, 37 miles S. S. £. from Callinjer. 
Lat. 24* Sff N. long. 80* 49' £. 

KnEKouKHA. — ^A town in the Allahabad province, 75 miles S. by W. from 
Gaiil^. Lat. 24* 2' N. long. 80’ 25' £. 

lUttriTBA.-- A town in the province of Allahabad, 86 miles S. S. £. from Chat- 
t/HfOOi* Lat. 1^* 52' £. long. 80° 20' £. 

|liiraa«-— A huge and meanly built town, surrounded by a mud wall, in the 
^ Allahabad, within the line of British protection, situated about 60 
Callinjer. Lat. 24® 1 7' N. long. 80* 50' £. This place belongs 
ta ah fodfopendeat chieftain, who resides in a small but strong fort close to the 
town,' and who possesses a tract of country extending from the territory of the 
Nagana chief to a village called Tacka,^ 12 miles from Bdlary, where the domi- 
ffions fli the Nagpoor Ri^a commence. The fort comnsts of two stone walls, one 

aoiii, W 



330 THE PROVINCE [dmtmct at 

within tlie other the outer one surrounded by a wet ditch filled with water, 00 
yards broad on the western side, but only 20 on the southern, and still narrower 
on the remaining sides. Round the ditch there is a kind of glacis, which would 
prevent the effectual breaching of the wall, unless by ^ battery on the edge of 
the ditch, and this applies to every point except the gateway on the north s ide, 
which in consequence is the weakest part. — (Twemlow, ^c.) 

Bellary. — From the eictent of ruins seen round this town, it probably was 
once of more importance than it has lately been, but it had suffered greatly from 
the repeated incursions of the Pindarics. In the neighbourhood are some fine 
Hindoo temples. A little to the south of this place the ancient province of 
Gundwana may be said to coijfimence. Lat. 23** 46' N. long. 80** 28* £. 30 miles 
north from Gurrah. 

Ahmuddaii (or Moddha ). — ^A large village in Bundelcund, 32 miles south 
from Banda, in which is a fort with high brick waUs, surrounded by a ditch, but 
not strong, the wall being exposed nearly to the bottom from an eminence near 
the village. — (Twmhw, ^x.) 

Jhansi. — ^T he capital of a petty state within the line of British protection, 
and under the superintendance of the magistrate of Bundelcund, situated about 
82 miles N. N. W. from Chatterpoor. Lat. 25** 32' N. long. 78** 34' E. In 1790, 
when visited by Dr. William Hunter, this was a considerable town ; but com- 
manded by a stone fort on a high hill, to the S. £. of which, at the distance of 
500 yards, is another hill nearly on a level with the fort. At that period ^ 
district dependent'on the fort, yielded a revenue of 4 lacks of rupees per annum, 
and the town was a considerable thoroughfare between the Deccan, Furruckabad, 
and the cities of the Doab, and contained a manufactory of bows, arrows, and 
spears ; the principal weapons of the Bondelah tribes. 

This petty state is but of recent formation, yet from a concurrence of fortu- 
nate circumstances has survived many others of greater antiquity. The territoi^ 
of Jhansi appears to have formed a part of the province of Bundelcund, which 
was made over to the Pesfiwa’s ancestor Bajerow, in consequence of the aid 
which the former afforded to the Raja^ainst ^e invasion of the Bungish Patan 
of Furruckabad. About A. D. 1743, the existing Peshwa took pomeasion of eae 
half of the lands of the Teary (or Tehree) Raja, and half of those belongi^ to 
Ditteah. Half of the last, and the whole of the first portion, coaaposed |he 
small soubahdary of Jhansi. In 1803, Siva Row Bhow, the aoubfdidar« in a 
statement which he transmitted to Lord Lake, and whtc^ fiirmed the hanis of the 
treaty then negotiated, distinctly acknowledged that he h^ his oouniiy 
the anthority of tite Pmihwa. 

In February |904, a treaty was aagnged by Inlil BlhligWat 



Av^nzLcwD.l OF ALLAHABAD. 331 

in BundelcttAd on the part of the British government, with Siva Row Bhow, by 
which he professed his entire submission to the British government, and to his 
Highness the Peshwa, to whom he engaged to pay the same tribute for which 
he had hitherto been liable, the British government demanding no tribute 
whatever. He engaged also to refer to the British government for .adjustment, 
any dispute that might' arise between him and any chief in obedience to the 
British government, and to assist in punishing the disaffected in any of the 
British possessions adjacent to his territories. On the other hand, the British 
government engaged to assist him in quelling any disturbances that might arise 
in his own country, the expense to be defrayed by the party calling for aid ; and 
on all occasions when his troops were acting in conjunction with those of his 
allies, he engaged to delegate the command of the* united forces to the British 
officer. In addition to these stipulations, he engaged never to retain in his service 
any British subject or European, without the acquiescence of the Governor 
General. In 1812, the Bhow of Jhansi applied at Calcutta to have the treaty 

1804 rendered hereditary ; but Lord Minto did not think himself authorized 
to interfere between the Peshwa, and a chief who appeared to be one of his 
feudatories. — ( Hunter, Treaties, Richardson, Sgc. Sgc.) 

Barwah . — X village in Bundelcund, 10 miles S. S. £. from Jhansi. Lat. 25*^ 
26' N. long. 78® 39 E. In 1790, the Hindoo soubahdar of tliis district was an 
uncommonly accomplished person, and had acquired a very considerable know- 
ledge of European sciences. At the advanced age of 60 he had formed the 
project studying the English language, in order to comprehend the Encyclo^ 
pecUa Britannica, of which he had acquired a copy. Such, however, is the 
iocoasistency of human nature, and the strength with which Hindoo prejudices 
adhere, that about five years afterwards, having been seized with some complaint 
which he considered incurable, he repaired to Benares and there drowned himself 
in the Ckmges. — ( Hunter, Sgc.) 

OocHAB.-— This ancient town is situated about 8 south from Jhansi. 

LaL 26* 26' N. long. 78* 38' E. In remote times this was a city of great note, 
die lUija of Ouncha being then the head of the Bondelah tribes, from whom 
^ R a ja s received the Teeka, or token of investiture. In 1790, his revenue 
sNui y ednce d to one lack of rupees and his consequence in proportion. — (Hunter, 

Xhaounjili, X town in the Allahabad province, 42 miles S. S. E. from Jhansi. 

LaASTH, long. 78® 52 E. 

town in the province of Allahabad, situated on the north side of 
tlldllelawih fiver, 80 mUesS.E. from Gualior. Ut. 26® 52' N. long . 14' B. 


« o2 



v132 • THE PROVINCE [diitiuct ot 

Parassex. — k town in the province of Allahabad, 13 miles S. S. W. hnum 
Calpee. Iht. 25® 59' N. long. 79® 22' E. 

Ekech. — An ancient town in tlie province of Allahabad, 13 miles S. by W 
fnim Kotrah. Lat. 25® 49' long. 79* 2' E. 

DrncAH (Dattya). — The capital of a small principality under British pro- 
tcrtion, situated 43 miles S. S. E. from Gnalior. Lat. 25* 43' N. long. 78® 26' £« 
This town is about a mile and a half long and nearly as much in breadth, and iu 
i 790 was populous and well built, the houses being mostly of stone, and covered 
with tiles. It is surrounded by a stone wall, and furnished with gates. The 
Raja has a palace without the town, on the south side on an eminence, from 
whence (here is a view of the country as far as Pechoor, Narwar, and Jhansi. 
(’lose to lhi> hill is an extensive lake. The inhabitants are a robust handsome 
ia< c of men, ha\e a great reputation as a warlike people, and make excellent 
soldiers. In 1790, the surrounding district yielded a revenue of nine or ten 
lacks of rupees annually, subject to the payment of a tribute to the Maharattas. 
During the reign of Aurengzebe, Ditteah was the capital of Dhoolput Roy, a 
Bondelah Raja of some celebrity. 

On the cession of Bundelcund by the Peshwa to the British in 1804. Raja 
Parakhyit of Ditteah joined the British standard, and a treaty was concluded 
with him, by which he was confirmed in possession of the territory, which fit)m 
ancient times had descended to him by inheritance. In consideration of this 
favour, he agreed to consider the Peshwa and the British as his perpetual aUies, 
and agreed, to refer to the latter for the adjustment of any disputes that mig^t 
arise with the neighbouring chiefs professing obedience to the British govern- 
ment: reciprocal assistance to be given in qudling any disturbances m the con- 
tiguous territories of the contracting parties. The modem territories of the 
Ditteah Raja do not properly border on Bundelcund, being bounded by thow of 
the Bhow of Jhansi, and the Raja of Tehree or Teary. This chief cchisideia 
himself, and is generally acknowledged to be, what is usually termed a Badbfaahy 
Raja, that is, holding his principality direiptly under the authority of the crown, 
and therefore not tributary to any state. Ambajee, when in the manafement 
the Narwar district and territory of Gohud, levied occasional contrilbutkmi frm 
the Raja of Ditteah ; but not under die denomination of fixed revenue or tiihe^'. 
The Vinchoor Cur, a great Maharatta dignitary, possessed many laiida ^ ttiia 
quarter, and had many disputes wtthrthe Ditteah Raja regarding die jpscgutmi^ 
of Oochar, whidi were referred to the arbitration of the British governing » hut 
the iomm having forfeited lus possessions by his adherence to Ihc I^wa 
Bajerow, there rmnwined no necesirityforany fuiiher investigarioRyisi^s^^ 



bi;no£i.cuni).] OF ALLAHABAD. 333 

Vincttoor Car’s possessions, east of the Sinde, were conferred on the Ditteah 
chief . — ( UmOer, Rkhardwn, Public MS, Documents, Scott, ^x. ^x.J 

Bikkve.— A town in the province of Allahabad, 45 miles S. S.E. from Gualior. 
Lat. 25* 46' N. long. 78* 30' E. 

Teheeb ('or Tearjf;.— The capital of a petty chief under British protection, 
whose territories are situated on the north western boundaries of Bundelcund, 
51 miles west from Chatterpoor. Lat. 24° 45' N. long. 78° 52' E. The Tehrec 
Raja appears to have been an independent chief, ever since the dissolution of the 
Mogul empire, never having been considered tributary to Sindia, or any other 
more powerful state, although, like all other small principalities, liable to have 
oontfibutions extorted by such marauders as possessed sufficient strength. 
About A.D. 1777, Raja Puchin Singh, the then reigning Raja of Tehree, in a fit 
of furious mental derangement, put the wife of the late Raja Sawunt Singh, 
.his predecessor, to death. On recovering from his fit of passion, being seized 
with remorse, he abdicated the throne, and became a wandering religious 
mendicant. His pilgrimage was traced as far as Chittercole, after which he m'&s 
never heard of. 

In 1809, great advantage was experienced from the attachment of Raja 
Bickermajeet Singh, when the detachment under Colonel Martindell proceeded 
from Chatterpoor to Seronge, for the purpose of co*operating with the force 
under the command of Colonel Close, against Ameer Khan. At that period the 
Raja earnestly solicited to be admitted among the number of British dependants, 
and to be permitted to execute engagements similar to those concluded with 
the^ Bondelah chiefs. At present the villages belonging to the Tehree state are 
so intennixed with others, the property of the adjacent chiefs, that it is impos- 
sible to describe them with accuracy; in 1812 his revenue was estimated at 
four lacjks rupees. — (' Richardson, ^x. ^x,) 

OooLQUEOE (Gulgafff). — A town in the Allahabad province, 20 miles S. W. 
foMd Chatterpoor. Lat. 24° 42' N. long. 79° 29' E. 

Bejawse.-— A town in the province of Allahabad, district of Bundelcund, 
24 S. by W. from Chatterpoor, the chief of which. Raja Ruttim Singh, is a 
d4!|ie»^hiiit on the British government. Lat. 24° 37' N. long. 79° 32' E. 

MAEtowit.— A town and fortress on the S. W. boundaries of Bundelcund, near 
tike hilhiwluch separate that district from Malwah, about 60 miles E. by N. 
front Seronge, Lat. 24° 17' N. long. 78° 37' E. The fortress of Maltown is 
ntuskted on, and commanding a ghaut or pass known by the name of Maltowm. 
'Rte route by the Maltown ghaut is the easiest, and the oiie jnost usually taken, 
frw Buu4elcund, both on account of the practicability of the road, and 

supplied with water. By this route Ameer Khan pene- 



334 THE PROVINCE [Distmwt or 

trated into Bundolcund, of which province tins place may be called the key on 
the western quarter. Between Maltown and Seronge, vUlagea are intmapersed, 
belonging to Dowlet Row Sindia and the Nana of Calpee. — (Jliclutrdtont ifsci) 

Hirapoob. — A town in the province of Allahabad, 47 mil^ S. by W. i^m 
Chatterpoor. Lat. 24* 20' N, long. 79’ 22' E. 

Bucksuah. — A town in the province of Allahabad, 53 miles S. by W. fipom 
Chatterpoor. Lat 24® 12' N. long. 79’ 27' E. 

Nugub. — A town in the province of Allahabad, 81 miles S. S. W. frmn Chat* 
terpoor. Lat. 23® 54' N. long. 79® 8' E. 

Guera KOTA.— The capital of a petty state in the province of Allahabad, 90 
miles S. S. W. from Chatterpoor. Lat. 23* 44' N. long. 79® 8' E. In 1812, the 
Nagpoor Raja attempted the subversion of this principality, then governed by 
Raja Murdun Singh, who earnestly solicited the protection of the British 
government, which being refused he had recourse to Sindia, and in return for 
the assistance received, ceded half his territory, including this place. During 
the Pindary agitations, the Raja managed to obtain possession again, through 
the disaffection of the garrison, and of tinning refractory, a British detachment 
was marked against it in October, 1818. On the 26th of that month the 
batteries were opened so effectually, that on the 30th the breach was reported 
practicable, and would have been stormed had not the garrison surrendered in 
the morning, and the Raja himself soon after. The besiegers sustained no loss 
except about 30 killed and wounded by an unfortunate explosion in the mortar 
battery. 

SiNGQLE* — A town in the province of Allahabad, 25 miles N.N.W. from 
Gurrah. Lat. 23* 29' N. long. 79® 51' E. 

THE DISTRICT OF CAUNPOOR. 

This district consists of territory ceded to the Britbh government by the Nabob 
of Oude, and mostly comprehended within the Doab of the Ganges and Jumiig, 
between the 26th and 27Ui Aegnen oljncrth latitude. On the north it is bmmded 
by the Etaweh district; on the south by the river Jumna; to the eud it has 
the Nabob Of Oude's reserved territories; and on the west die river Jumna* 
The Caunpoor division is a segment of the vast plain, which extmida Stam the 
Bay of Bei^ to the northern mountains, and its soil is mit only all ardhie* but 
with proper cultivadon is capable of being extremdiy productive. In tbn 
bourhood of the town and camp, agricttltore haa pn^ted by the stibwa^of an 
European market and high prioes. Indian coin, barfey, and whm^ «fd ^dre 
ind torolpi, mhbigsa, and European ve|ft«hl(hb dptkihf ^ 
aeaao^hk abiiiii|roci^ not mdy In dm ildm 



CAUNFOW.] OF AIXAHABAD. 335 

fiddi belonging to ntliTe fiirmen. Grapes, peaches, with a variety of firuit, 
hnve long been supplied by the Europeans. In their season sugar canes, and 
otbar crops, flourish in great iuxuiiance; cultivation is, however, frequently 
seen interrupted by the intervention of extensive wastes, which might be easilv 
rendered as productive as the re^t of the land. 

On tihe cession of this portion of the Doab in 1801, measures were adopted for 
flxing here a civil establishment, with a view to the administration of justice, 
and collection of the revenue, the latter of which was probably in the com- 
mencement assessed too high, as it appears from the statement below, that it has 
nbt, as in other districts, increased since the first settlement. 

Land revenue for the fusly year 1215 (1808-9) . 2,699,324 


Ditto, 1216 2,717,125 

Ditto, 1217 2,722,231 

Ditto, 1^18 2,726,686 

Ditto, 1219, provisionally in perpetuity . . . 2,730,428 

Settlement of the land revenu/t for the second period of five years. 

Fusly year 1220 (1813-14) 2,665,994 

Ditto, 1221 2,677,965 

Ditto, 1222 2,683,841 

Ditto, 1223 2,687,740 

Ditto, 1224 2,693,611 


No estimate approaching to accuracy has ever been made of the population 
of this district, but from the great extent of land under tillage, the number of 
inhabitants must be very great, and that they are not so prone to commit 
depredations as some of the more southern and eastern subjects, is proved by a 
l| ii^ stated by the police superintendant, that within the first six months of 1612, 
Sqt a instance of gang robbery had occurred within the limits of the Caun- 
poov Jurisdiction. This is the more surprising when it is considered, that the 
town of •Catmpoor is qne of the greatest thoroughfares for inland commerce, as 
vnll appearfiKmi the following statement of the large sum paid into the Caunpoor 
treasury, on account of duties received at the custom-house in 1812-13, amount- 
ing to 4S8,000 rupees, and in 1813-14 to 485,000 rupees. Besides Caunpoor, 
tha eMtli towns are Resoulabad, Jaujemow, and Acberpoor. The average 
Ituinbat of prisoners under confinement in the jail throughout the year 1813-14 
Was fjord VdlentiOf Guthrie^ lienncllf 

OAUirnoon,— This town stands on the west side of the Ganges, 45 miles 
B. W* iam Ludknow. Lat. 26' SCT N. long. 80“ 13' E. A brigade the 
mtf is usually qantoned here, it being considered one of the chief 



THE PROVINCE 


336 


[mCTIllCT Of 


military stations in the upper provinces. There are baitacks for 400 arttUery, 
two King’s regiments, one of cavalry, three of native cavalry, and 7OO0 native 
infantry. The officers of every description find their own lodgings, which oen- 
sist of very commodious and elegant bungalows, built without' any regularity, 
on a space extending about six miles along the Ganges. During the dry season 
the troops here suffer great annoyance from the dust, which they cannot pos* 
bibly avoid. From the middle of October to the middle of June, there is sekLern 
a shower of rain ; the ground consequently becomes parched to a cinder \ dl 
vegetation, except on watered fields, being destroyed. The tread of horses, 
bullocks, elephants, and camels, loosens each day a certain quantity of dust 
from the surface, which the winds that regularly blow in the afternoon raish 
intd the air in the form of a thick cloud, which nearly hides the sun, and 
envelopes the station in darkness. The history of the country affords many 
instances of battles lost and won, according to the direction of the dust, the 
wdndward position giving such a decided advantage. Wolves abound here, 
which frequently dash into some comer of the camp, and carry off children 
under five years of age, which happen to be straggling among the hqts. With 
the stream the passage has been made from hence to Calcutta in 9 days and a 
half. — (Tennant, Lord Val^Hia, Rennell, ^'c.) 

Jaujemow. — town' in the Allahabad province, 8 miles S. S. E. from 
Caunpoor. Lat. 26® 26' N. long. 8(y* 16' E. 

SuRAjEPOoa (Suryajfura ). — A small town in the province of Allahabad, 14 
miles £. from Korah. Lat. 26** 10' N. long. 80° 30' £. 

Makicpoor. — ^This kown, with the dbtrict attached to it, are in the provmce 
of Allahabad, but belong to the Nabob of Oude, being within the boundaries of 
his reserved dominions. In 1582, the town of Manicpoor was « place of some 
importance, and the capital of a provincial subdivision' described byiA.bul Easel 
as follows : ** Circar Manicpoor, containing 14 mahals, measurement 
begahs, revenue 33,916,527 dams, seyurghal 2,446,173 dams. This drear 
furnishes 2,040 cavalry, and 42,900 infantry.” 

The surface of this district is flat, the soil sandy but fertile, and toleraldy 
well supplied with moisture, a considera^ portion of it being endosed between 
the north-east bank of the Ganges and the Sye river ; but the superior edtiva* 
tion and prosperity of the contiguous provinces under the British govemment, 
render the difference of the two jurisdictions too remarkable to escape tile bhaet^ 
vation even of a native. The principal town is Manicpoor, whidt stan^ eei 
N. £. side of the Ganges, in lat. 25° 46' N. long. 80^ 20^ £. dwot 60 aailes 
S, S. E. firom Lucknow. Tlie other towns of note ire Medntgunge, Pertmffighnr* 
and Saloon. 



cAuwwoa.] OF ALLAHABAD. 3S7 

Dalmoi )'. — A town in the Manicpoor division, 54 miles south from Lucknow. 
Lat. 26" 5' N. long. 80^ 56' £. This was the birth-place of Baja Tickact Roy, 
ukd ornamented by him. On the banks of the Ganges here are several hand- 
some pagodas and ghauts, and there is also a fort of some extent. 

Saloon (Salamn .) — A town belonging to the Nabob of Oude, in the Manic- 
poor division, 19 miles N. from the town of Manicpoor. Lat. 26" 2' N 
long. 26' E. 

Mednigvnge. — A town belonging to the Nabob of Oude, in the Manicpoor 
division, 30 miles N. from the city of Allahabad. Lat. 25® 53' N. long. 81" 54' E. 



X « 



THE PROVINCE OF OUDE. 


(AtODHTA.) 


Tins is one of the smallest provinces of Hindostan Proper, and is situated prin- 
cipally between the 26th and 28th degrees of north latitude. To the north it is 
bounded by various petty districts tributary to Nepaul, from which it is separated 
by a range of hills and forests ; to the south by Allahabad ; on the east it has 
Bahar, and on the west Delhi and Agra. In length it may be estimated at 250 
miles, by 100 the average breadth. By Abul Fazel, in 1582, it is described as 
follows : “ The soubah of Oude is situated in the second climate. The length 
from circar Gorucpoor to Kanoje includes 135 coss, and the breadth, from the 
northern mountains of Siddehpoor to the soubah of Allahabad, comprises 115 
coss. To the east it has Bahar ; to the north lie mountains ; Manicpoor bounds 
it to the south, and Kanoje to the west. The large rivers are the Goggra, the 
Goomty, and the Sye. In this soubah are five circars divided into 138 pergun- 
nahs. The amount of the revenue is 5,043,454. It supplies 7660 cavalry, 
168,250 infantry, and 59 elephants; and is sub-divided into the following 
districts, viz. l,Oude; 2, Gorucpoor; 3, Baraitche; 4, Khyrabad; 5, Lucknow.” 

The whole surface of this province is level, and extremely well watered by 
large rivers, or by copious streams, which intersect the country, flowing nearly 
all in a south-east direction. When properly cultivated the land is extremely 
productive, yielding crops of wheat, barley, rice, and other grains, sugar cane, 
indigo, poppies for opium, and all the richest articles raised in India. The air 
and climate are suited to the spontaneous generation of nitre, from the brine of 
which an inferior culinary salt is procure^by evaporating the saltpetre brine to 
a certain degree, which, although at first much contaminated with bitter salt, may 
be easily refined to a purer state. Lapis Lazuli is also a production of this 
province, the colour procured from which sells in England at about ahm 
guineas per ounce. The modern sub-divisions of this province are the same a* 
the ancient. Of these Lucknow, Fyzabad, Khyrabad, Baraitche, with a eecthm 
of Manicpoor, compose the reserved dominions of the Nabob Vufier of Oude^ 
while the district of Gorucpoor belongs to his British shies. The prumtpal 



THS ?ROVINCB OF OUDE, 339 

itfWf W6 which hounds it to the west, the Goggra, and the Goomty •, 
towns MO Lucknow, Fyzabad, Oude, Khyrabad, Baraitche and Tanda. 
Tho Hindoo inhabitants of Oude, Benares, and the Ooab of the Agpra province, 
m i very superior race, both in their bodily strength and mental qualities, to 
those of Bengal and the districts south of Calcutta, although the latter have fully 
W much acuteness and more cunning. The Rajpoots, or military class of them, 
generally estogo^ Europeans in stature, have robust frames, and are possessed 
every valuable quality in a military point of view. From the long occupation 
of this province by the Mahommedans, a considerable proportion of the inha- 
bitants profsss that -religion, and from both persuasions a great number of the 
Company s best sepoys are procured. Their military habits were long kept on 
the alert, for until the assumption of the superintendance of Oude by the 
British government, the whole region was in a state of political anarchy. Every 
individual travelled either with the prospect of defending himself against robbers, 
or of exercising that vocation himself, for both of which events he was provided. 
Tba peasantry sowed and reaped with their swords and spears, ready for defence 
or plunder, as occasion offered, and the rents were collected by an irregular 
banditti, under the denomination of an army, which devastated the country it 
pretended to protect. 

Oude is much celebrated in Hindoo histories as the kingdom of Dasaratha, 
the father of the great Rama, who extended his empire to the island of Ceylon, 
which he conquered. At an early period after the first invasion it was subdued 
by the Mahommedans, and remained, with different vicissitudes, attached to the 
tbfone ef Oelhi, until the dissolution of that empire after the death of Aurengzebe, 
The first tneestor upon record of the present reigning family was Saadet Khan, 
t native of Rishapoor, in the province of Khorasan, who was appointed Soubahdar 
of Oude during the reign of Mahommed Shah. He was succeeded by his nephew, 
SefiiM Jung, who died A. D. 1756, when the throne was ascended by his son, 
Shttja ud Dowlah, who reigned until 1775. On his decease his son, Asoph ud 
Dowlah, was his successor and reigned until 1797, when he was succeeded for a 
sh<Wt time by a spurious son, named Vizier Ali, whose illegitimacy being 
diseoyeied, he was dethroned by Lord Teignmouth, and the government con- 
fided to the late Nabob’s brother, Saadet Ali, who was proclaimed Vizier of 
Hlildoston and Sovereign of Oude, the 21st of January, 1798. 

In 1790, the dominions of Oude occupied all the fiat country lying on both 
^dee of the Ganges, (with the exception of Rampoor), between that river and 
^ mountains; as also the principal portion the fertile tract 

betsremt Ganges and Jumna, named the Itoab, to within 40 mfies of Delhi. 
Sver iinee the pacification between Lord Clive and Shuja ud Dowlah, in 176$, 

X X 8 



340 


THE PROVINCE 


this territory had been protected from external enemies, its intenud peace 
preserved, and its dominions extended, by the assistance of a British subsidiary 
force, the expense of which was defrayed by the Nabobs of Oude. Subsequent 
to the breaking out of the French revolution, the exigence of the times com- 
pelled a large augmentation of this standing army, and the disbursements 
increased proportionally; but owing to the mismanagement of the Nabob’s 
financial concerns, an uncertainty attended its regular payment, although bis 
territories, under a proper administration, were not only equal to all the 
necessary expenditure, but capable (as the result’ verified) of realizing an 
enormous surplus. . By a fatality attending the British influence in Hindostan> 
it was frequently obliged, in consequence of remote treaties, to maintiun on the 
native thrones weak and profligate princes, who without that support would, ir 
the natural progression of events, have been supplanted by some more able com- 
petitors. Their dominions in the mean time suffered by their vices, and their 
subjects were abandoned to the rapacity of the unprincipled associates of their 
low pleasures, who by their cruelty and extortion depopulated the country, and 
drove the inhabitants to a state of desperation. These observations particularly 
apply to the Oude territories during the long reign of Asoph ud Dowlah ; and as 
an opportunity now occurred, the Bengal presidency deemed it a duty imposed 
on them to endeavour to procure a better system of government for the great 
mass of the natives, and at the same time remove the uncertainty which attended 
the payment of the subsidiary force. 

A treaty was in consequence concluded on the 10th of November, 1801, by 
the conditions of which the undermentioned portions of the Nabob of Oude’s terri- 
tories, yielding a gross revenue of 13,523,274 rupees, were ceded to the British 
government, in commutation of the subsidy, and of every other claim whatever. 


Statement of the Revenue. 

Districts. — Korah, Currah, and Etaweh . . . 

Reher, &c 

Furruckabad, &c 

Karraghur, &c 

Azimghur, Mow and Bunjun, and Azimghur 

Goruepoor, &c 

Batool 

Soubah of Allahabad, &c 

Bareily, Asophabad, and Kelpoory . 
Nawabgunge, Rehly, and others . , 
Mahowl, with the exception of Arwul 


. 5,548,677 

633,374 

450.001 

210.001 
696,621 

609,863 

40,00 0 * 549,864 

934,963 
. 4,318,467 

119,249 
168,878 


Total, Lutdenow aicc* ntpeea . 



OF OUDE. 


341 

la conitdMraticm of these cessions, (which in 1813 yielded 17,511,469 rupees,) 
^ British government undertook to defend the Nabob's remaining territories 
from all foreign and domestic enemies, and liberated him from all future claims 
of every description ; it being expressly stipulated, that no demand should after- 
wmtfs be made on his highness’s treasury for an increase of troops, hostile 
preparations, or on any account or pretence whatever. The Nabob agreed to 
Aiimnwia his supernumerary forces, retaining in his pay only four battalions of 
Nujeebs and Mewatties, 2000 cavalry, and 300 artillery. His excellency also 
engaged that he would establish in his reserved dominions such a system of 
administration (to be executed by his own officers), as should be conducive to the 
prosperity of his subjects, and calculated for the security of their lives and pro- 
perties. On the 22d of February, 1802, a final arrangement was completed, 
explanatory of the general principles which should regulate the connexion and 
intercourse of the two states, as resulting from the treaty, and to obviate and 
anticipate all future doubts. Upon this occasion the Nabob declared his intention 
of nominating his second son, Shums ud Dowlah, to the situation of minister for the 
ajSairs of government, in which appointment the Marquis Wellesley, then gover- 
nor-general, concuned. It was further stipulated, that until the formation of a 
commercial treaty, mutually beneficial, the navigation of the Ganges, and of all 
other rivers, the boundaries of the two states, should be free and uninterrupted ; 
it still remaining in the power of each government to levy such duties on 
goods imported as they considered proper, provided they did not exceed those 
collected by prior usage. 

When these arrangements were concluded Saadet Ali assumed the uncontrouled 
management of his reserved territories, and being a man of abilities greatly 
superior to the generality of native princes, and habitually disposed to business, 
lehrined the conducting of the afiairs of government under his own immediate 
direction. Having no external political relations with the other states of Hindostan, 
the history of his reign must be entirely restricted to a relation of domestic events, 
of which the following are the principal, according to chronological order. 

On the occasion of Sir John Shore’s (Lord Teignmouth) visit to Lucknow in 
1797, Ins lordship employed his utmost influence with the Nabob Asoph ud 
Dowlah to induce him to establish an improved system of administration within 
Ids dondtttona, and as an indispensable preliminary to that important measure, 
perauad^ the Nabob to banish from his councils his unworthy favorite Raja Jhow 
XoU, im account of his known hostility to the British government, his abuse of 
iflbe Nabob's misplaced attachment, combined with his utter incapacity to discharge 
iaaiimtimt duties of minister. He was in consequence compelled to quit 
tidte up his residence at Patna ; and it was hoped, from the levity 



342 the province 

of the vizier's character, he would soon cease to regret the lost of his &voi»ite, 
or to wish for his return. In 1802, this individual addressed the Marquis 
Wellesley from Patna, stating that his distress was extreme, as he had com- 
pletely exhausted the money and jewels he had brought with him from Luip)(|iOW| 
and not receiving any allowance either from the Nabob gr the Comj^y, Wis 
reduced, with his family consisting principally of females, to a condition littlf 
removed from absolute starvation. Under these circumstances the Governor- 
General, on his arrival at Patna in 1802, considering the affluence Jhow Loll 
had formerly enjoyed, the great number of persons, especially females, com- 
posing his family, and the exemplary correctness and regularity of his conduc| 
during his residence in the Company's territories, granted for his subsistence a 
pension of 2000 rupees per month, from the 5th of October, 1801. Thiil WM 
» received by the decayed favourite with the utmost gratitude, and being merely 
personal, was of course subject to resumption in the event of any misconduct, 

In 1807, an extraordinary intrigue was discovered, in which Saadet Ali’s 
second brother, commonly called Mirza Jungly, was concerned, which also 
terminated in his removal from Lucknow to Patna, In 1808, the celebrated 
eunuch, Almas All Khan died, on which event his wealth, which was consider- 
able, was claimed both by the Bhow Begum (the Nabob's mother^ l?y tlvft 
Nabob. The first grounded her pretensions on the circumstance of Almas AU 
Khan being her servant, while the latter asserted, that as all the property had 
been acquired in the service of the Oude sovereignty and from the resources of 
the country, the reigning prince was the legitimate heir of a person who could 
have no natural ones, and in this view of the subject he was supported by the 
supreme government. Besides this, many other petty and vexatious disputes 
arose between the two Begums and the Nabob, who always evinced a strong 
disinclination to employ the British troops in suppressing the disturluuic^ 
occasionally broke out in the Jaghires of the Bhow Begum, yfVlUgor JHuglllBli 
and other persons under the direct protection of the British gOYariMUCAt } ludfed 
he seemed to have no desire that they should bo suppreised by My y n f fuf - 
According to the construction of the subsisting treaties^ it did not ippOM tbit 
any other measures on the part of the British govenwntnt wore tdmiliiblt, 
beyond those of remonstrance, and the resident was directed to endeavoi^ to 
convince his excellency of ihe impolicy, as well as injustice, of ctwmteaaiHgn^ 
disturbances within the lands of his jaghiredars, and the danger to vrldcih 
general tranquillity of his country would' be exposed, not to 

hU reputation would sustain by his tolerating insurrecrion WttUn thd ^ 
his own dommions. 

Such, exclusive of some petty insurrectioiui of zemmdari, mm 



or ODDE. 343 

iiitttiial cftuMM (KTirritEtioii ; with his powerful allies of Bengal various collisions 
ofintefnat and tn^ority took place, for the British functionaries on his flrontiers, 
after several years experience, found, that all applications to the Nabob for the 
apprdiiension of offenders who had sought refuge within his territories, almost 
invarialdy tailed of success. Although on these occasions this potentate issued 
prompt orders to his officers, they were either mere matters of form, or so 
considered by the persons to whom they were addressed. Of these two con- 
clusions the latter appears the most probable, as it would greatly derogate from 
his excellency’s character to suppose him indifferent to the bringing of public 
offenders to justice, or that the orders issued by him on such occasions were not 
intended to be authoritative. Yet when the feeble and inefficient system of all 
native administration is considered, it might be reasonably doubted, whether he 
in reality possessed a degree of controul over his officers sufficient to enforce 
their obedience, especially as the granting of an asylum within their jurisdiction 
to offenders, constituted a regular source of their profits. On some occasions 
the Nabob evinced a favourable disposition, by permitting the British troops to 
act within his territories for the express purpose of seizing delinquents, but at 
other times he proved restive and withheld his consent without assigning any 
reason. The inconveniences resulting from this line of conduct, and the 
obstruction it occasioned to the due administration of justice within the British 
territories contiguous to those of Oude, were such, that one of the first stipula- 
tions entered into with his successor authorized the British magistrates to pursue 
and seize public offenders within the reserved dominions of Oude. The interior 
man^pment of Saadet Ali’s own territories was also extremely defective, and 
he was repeatedly urged by the Bengal government to adopt a line of conduct 
more creditable to himself, and more consistent with the obligations of existing 
bfeaties * but in vain, for although at one time he had given his consent to a 
reform, he afterwards retracted it, and as no hopes of success could be enter- 
tained from any further endeavours, short of actual compulsion, the further 
prosecution of the original arrangement was desisted from, and all attempts at 
a modification were put an end to by his unexpected death. 

This event happened on the llth of July, 1814, when he was suddenly taken 
ill, and expired before medical assistance could be procured, supposed from 
•|H)plexy, or the bursting of a blood vessel. On this emergency every necessary 
PtecatiHeii v^as taken by the resident, for securing the tranquil succession of 
’lit® h^pal Imir, before the fact of the vizier’s demise was publicly known, and the 
of the Nabob Ghazi ud Been Hyder Rafaat ud Dowlah took place 
the. smallest interruption or disturbance. On lus accession his excel- 
lency Axecaite^ and delivered to the resident an instrument, by which he bound 



344 THE PROVINCE 

himself to conform to the provisions of subsisting treaties be^een the state of 
Oude and the British government, and a corresponding documait,^ under the 
seal and signature of the Marquis of Hastings, was transmitted to the visueor. 
He also acceded to the adjustment of many questions long pending with the 
British government, and with apparent alacrity acquiesced in the measures 
adopted for the introduction of the reform recommended to his excellency by 
Lord Minto. Agreeably to the course followed on the succession of his father 
Saadet Ali, he assumed the title of Vizier (which had become hereditary in his 
family.) without reference to the Mogul at Delhi. 

In October, 1814, Ghazi ud Deen, the new Nabob (then about 40 years of 
age) proceeded to Caunpoor, where he had a conference with the Governor- 
General, to whom, as a proof of his attachment to the cause of his allies, then 
at war with the Nepaulese, he tendered a crore of rupees (10,000,000) by way 
of loan, which was thankhilly accepted. At a subsequent interview his excel- 
lency solicited the acceptance of the above sum as a free gift, but the receipt of 
it was declined, except as a subscription to the six per cent, loan then open, 
and his consent was afterwards obtained to an arrangement for the permanent 
assignment of the interest, to the payment of those pensions due from the Oude 
treasury (amounting to 651,000 rupees annually), under the guarantee of the 
British government, which at once extinguished an interminable source of 
debate and vexatious discussion between the vizier and resident, so frequently 
lamented, yet of such unavoidable recurrence. The war with the Nepaulese 
being protracted to a second campaign, and the immense preparation for the 
extirpation of the Pindaries having commenced, a hint was conveyed to the 
Nabob, that the proffer of a second crore from the hoards of his father, would 
on account of the pressing exigencies of the times, be extremely seasonable, and 
gratefully accepted. Ghazi ud Deen without the least hesitation paid the 
amount at Lucknow in bullion, from whence it was transported* to the different 
quarters of Hindostan, and he then exhibited the singular spectacle of a native 
prince, a creditor of the British government to an amount exceeding two milliom 
sterling, and regularly receiving the in^rests thereon. At a subsequent period, 
the transfer of the Terriani, or low country, acquired from the Nepaulese, an 
arrangement spontaneously suggested by the Nabob himself, togetb^sr with a 
remote and unproductive pergunnah attached to Gonicpoor, was made the 
means of redeeming one of the crm'es borrowed, but he still remans a mediter 
for die other. 

For more tlmn forty years the British government bad been endeavouring to 
pievaii on the sovereigns of Oude, to establish an improved system cff admmii- 
tiation, ospaclrily in revenue mattmi, wifhin thrir hereditary domuiiarii, 



OF OUDE 


345 


but uniformly without succession. The accession of Ghazi ud Deen held out 
another opportunity, and at the recommendation of the British government, 
tehsildars (native collectors), with a commission of ten per cent, on the net 
collections, were appointed, with the view of making a triennial settlement, to 
ascertain the resources of the Nabob’s dominions, and fix the principles on which 
a future and permanent settlement should be made. Nazims (native judicial 
officers) were also appointed for the distribution of justice. With these mea- 
sures, however, the Nabob being very soon dissatisfied, he superseded them, 
and promulgated regulations of his own, the result of which threatened an 
extraordinary defalcation of the instalments for the approaching year, and a 
recurrence to the system of farming as established in the time of his father. 
Under an Indian prince the department of akhbar (intelligence) is a system of 
espionage, which pervaded every district of this country, as well as the court 
and capital, during the life time of Saadet Ali, and furnished daily grounds for 
the imprisonment of some subject or servant, with a view to confiscation and 
forfeiture. The expense of it is nearly equal to an efficient police, and the 
channels of corruption and oppression which it opens, by encouraging false 
accusations, are destructive of the morals of the people, and of the safety of 
their property, as well as of the true interests of the sovereign. On the acces- 
sion of the present nabob, the akhbar establishment was abolished, but the 
system is so congenial to the habits and principles of native princes, and to the 
personal character of the present vizier, that he soon revived it. At the earnest 
solicitation of the British government, soon after the commencement of his 
reign, he appointed ostensible ministers for the transaction of the public business; 
but in process of time, after much wavering and inconsistency, the arrangement 
terminated first in their suspension, and afterwards in their dismissal. The 
inlierent fickleness of the Nabob’s disposition, his ready and implicit belief in 
the scandalous reports of his news writers, and of the intriguing persons around 
him, destroy the confidence and subvert the authority of his ministers, and 
preclude the beneficial exercise of any one of their functions ; so that if one set 
retire or be dismissed, a similar state of affairs within a short period of time 
will be produced with respect to their successors. 

As might be expected under circumstances so adverse to internal tranquillity, 
many revolts took place among contumacious or oppressed zemindars ; many 
gurries or native fortifications were taken and levelled, the whole requiring the 
inteiference and active agency of the British military, at a time when their 
services were urgently wanted elsewhere. The just and fair construction of the 
terms of subsisting treaties, as referring to the nature and extent of the Vizier's 
authority, did not appear to warrant any more effectual interposition on the part 
voi, I. Y ir 



346 THE PROVINCE 

% 

of the British government. In construing these, it is required by every princi- 
ple of justice, that the most liberal and comprehensive meaning should be given 
to such articles, as are in favour of the party whose weakness presents no 
security for him but the good faith on which he relied. .Much is also gained 
by escaping the chance of that extremity, which should force the British govern- 
ment to withdraw the Nabob’s authority to substitute its own within his terri- 
tories ; for such a necessity, although it might morally exist, could never be 
made out to the world, and the seizure of his possessions would be universally 
stigmatized as a premeditated usurpation, the offspring of a base and sordid 
cupidity. One emergency alone can be supposed capable oi driving the British 
goveminent to a conduct so repugnant to its wishes, which is, the discovery that 
the Nabob had secretly leagued'himself with their enemies, and with them was 
clandestinely practising its overthrow. An extreme case of this sort, however, 
could only occur in such a state of absolute desperation, that the Nabob thought 
the most unpromising conspiracy preferable to a continuation of submission. 
Under such a condition of affairs, although he has no troops, he might give much 
trouble ; for having a vast command of money, he might cause great mischief, 
by furnishing secret supplies, and might involve the British government in the 
trouble and expense of a war, leaving it infinitely difficult tO trace his having 
any concern m the machinations which led to it. 

The reservation by treaty of a right to interfere with advice or remonstrance, 
upon any mismanagement of the Nabob’s affairs within his reserved dominions, 
which might injuriously affect the British interests, implies, that in all other x«^- 
spects the administration of the Nabob is to be free ; the uninterrupted exercise 
of his own authority within the reserved territories having been assured^to. him, 
in order to qualify the very strong measure of appropriating as an exchange for 
subsidy, so large a portion of his territories. And so far the argument prevails 
in favour of the Nabob’s prerogatives ; but the people of Oude may with great 
justice inquire, by what right the British government, for its ovm convenience, 
binds itself by treaties to maintain on the throne a wicked or imbecile prince, 
who, if left to himself, would be speedily rejected, as has been the practice in 
Hindostan from the earliest periods of hktory. The reserved territories of Oude 
occupy about 21,000 British square miles, and contain a j^pulatton of, at the 
least, three millions of inhabitants ; but the Nabob of Oude is too dependent 
on the British government to be regarded as one of the political states of India. 
On account of the defective system, the revenue derived from tins extent of 
country is very inferior to what it might be made to produce under a more «n- 
Ug^teaed system of taxation ; but the income of the Oude sovetelgiis ia to be 
ei^ffiated rather negatively than positively, rather from the abaroce of toqpeodi- 



OF OUDE. 


347 

ture than, from the magnitude of their receipta : lor being relieved by the nature 
of their alliance with the British government from all external alarms, and 
having no funds or national debt, their expenses are merely fiscal and personal ; 
amd without diminishing the splendour of his court or the comfort of his style 
of living, the present Nabob might, with the slightest attention, annually lay 
aside (as was supposed to have been done by his father Saadet Ali) half a million 
sterling : but to what purpose ? — ( Public M S. Documents, Marquis of 
Hastings, Major BailUe, Guthrie, Pennell, ^'c. ^'c.J 

Goggra River (Gharghara). — This river has its source in the Himalaya 
mountains, but the exact spot has never been ascertained. The principal 
branch before it issues from the hills, is named the Cali, and now forms the 
eastern boundary of the British district of Kumaoon, which it separates from 
the Gorkha territory of Duti. At Swargadwara (the gate of heaven) it unites 
with the Sarjou (Sareyu) or Dcva river, after which it is named indifferently the 
Goggra, Sarjou, or JDeva. This forms one of the.longest contributary streams 
to the Ganges, which it joins in the province of Bahar. In the Hindoo mytho- 
logical poems, this river is always mentioned by the name of the Sareyu, which 
in modem times it has almost lost. By the ancient Hindoos, its banks were 
esteemed of peculiar sanctity, and were much frequented by Viswamitra and 
several other powerful and choleric Hindoo saints. Major Rennell thinks it is 
the Agoramis of Arrian. 

Goomtv River (Gomati, winding). — This river has its source among the 
Kumaoon hills, from whence it flows in a south easterly direction, nearly parallel 
with the Goggra, and after passing the cities of Lucknow and Juanpoor, falls 
into the Ganges below Benares. It is named the Goomty from its extremely 
winding course, which being a circumstance very common to rivers flowing 
through the Gangetic plain, there are many other rivers of a secondary class 
distinguished by the same appellation, particularly one which passes Comillah 
in the Tiperah district, and falls into the Megna at Daoudcaundy. 

LvckKow (Lahshmanavati ). — ^I'his large city stands -on the south side of the , 
Cjydomty, which is navigable for boats of a common size at all seasons of the year, 
and falls into the Ganges between Benares and Ghazipoor. Lat. 26® 61' N. long. 
80" 60' E. *rbe streets where the lower classes reside are sunk ten or twelve 
feet below the surface, and are so narrow that two carts cannot pass, being 
likewise filthy in the extreme. The different palaces of the Nabob, the great 
tnosques, and buryipg places, display considerable splendour, having gilt roofs 
and architecture loaded with ornaments. The Imaum Barry, ^ilt by Asoph 
ad Dowlah between 1780 and 1784, is' reckoned one of the most superb edifices 
in India, after those erected by the Delhi emperors. It has a centre arched 

*7 Y 2 



THE PROVINCE 


348 

room 167 feet long by 52 broad, with an octagon room at each end, and a raised 
set of rooms or open arches in the rear of the centre, the whole length, witli 
fountains and basins of water under each arch. In front is an arcaded verandah, 
forming a very fine oblong room, narrower than the centre room, with a pierced 
or open work and dwarf balustrade, near the spring of the ceiling. No wood 
is used in any part of the building, which is wholly composed of brick and 
mortar masonry. It was repaired in 1815 by the present Nabob, Ghazi ud 
Deen. 

Among the other curiosities in this neighbourhood is Constantia, the residence 
of the late General' Claude Martin, which is said to have cost him £150,000 
sterling. To the house is annexed a very noble garden and extensive mangoe 
clump ; but the country round is a barren sand and dead flat. On the general's 
decease, the furniture was sold, and the girandoles and mirrors now adorn the 
government house at Calcutta. In 1810, Saadet Ali, the reigning Nabob Vizier, 
addressed a letter to Lord Minto, expressing his desire to have an iron bridge 
erected across the river Goomty, in the neighbourhood of his palace, and re- 
questing the assistance of a professional person to survey the river and to carry 
it into execution. 

On the death of the Nabob Shuja ud Dowlah in 1775, his successor, Asoph 
ud Dowlah, removed the seat of government to this place from Fyzabad, the 
prior capital. The bankers and men of property accompanied the court ; and 
Lucknow, in a very few years, became one of the largest and richest towns of 
Hindostan, while its predecessor decayed with a proportionate rapidity. In 
1800, the population was roughly estimated at 300,000, but it probably has 
since diminished, on account of the waning splendour of the Nabob's court and 
consequent limited expenditure. Among other establishments the Nabob has a 
menagerie, in which variety or utility has not been so much attended to as the 
oddities of nature ; the rhinoceros being the only remarkable animal in the col- 
lection. Near to the stables a very large breed of Gujerat bullocks is kept j the 
introduction of which among the peasants generally, would be of infiniter ad- 
vantage to a country, where the draught cattle are so small and weak, as in the 
province of Oude. 

The body of the Nabob Asoph ud Dowlah lies interred in a religious sepul- 
chre lighted by a vast number of wax tapers, and having the grave strewed 
with flowers and gilt paper. On one side is a censer with various perfumes, 
on the other his sword and waistband, and opposite to his head lie his turban, 
and a copy of the Koran. The grave is covered with rich bread of bmley flrom 
Mecca, and verses from the Koran are chanted day and night. Lucknow is 
mentioned by Abul Fazel as a considerable town, and is suppmmd to stand On 



OF OUDE. 


349 

the site of the renowned forest of Noimisha, where, in ancient times, Soota and 
his 60,000 Moonees (Hindoo saints) performed austere penitence, heard the 
Puranas read, and listened to incredible stories. The travelling distance by the 
nearest road from Calcutta, is about G50 miles, and from hence to where the 
Ganges joins the ocean, all is one vast plain. Travelling distance from Delhi 
280; from Agra, 202; and from Benares, 1«9 miles.— fTtwirt///, Lord ValentUi, 
Rennell, 8^'c. Sgc. ^'c.) 

Noelguxge. — A town in the Oude territories, 15 miles W. S. W. from 
Lucknow. Lat. 26® 47' N. long. 80° 33' E. 

Barv ( Bari ). — A town in the Oude territories, 30 miles N. from Lucknow. 
Lat. 27® 15' N. long. 80® 60' E. 

Bvramguaut. — A town in the Oude territories, situated on the west side of 
the Goggra, 36 miles N. E, from Lucknow, Lat. 27® 6' N. long. 81® 21 E, 

Nawaubgunge. — A town in the Oude territories, 38 miles N. E. from Luck 
now. Lat. 27® 6' N. long. 81° 26' E. 

Mohaun ( Mahan). — A town in the Oude territories, 16 miles N. from Luck- 
now. Lat 27* 5' N. long. 80® 50' E. 

Embehottv. — A town in the Oude territories, 18 miles S. E. from Lucknow. 
Lat, 26® 18' N. long. 81® 3' E. 

Hvduohur. — A town in the Oude territories, 32 S. E. from Lucknow. Lat. 
26® 37' N. long. 81“ 17' E. 

Meahguxge (MiakganJ). — This town was built by the late eunuch, Ali 
Almas Khan, and was the capital of his district. Lat. 26° 49' N. long. 80® 32' 
E. 23 miles S, W. from Lucknow. 

Assewan. — ^T his place is about a mile from Meahgunge, and is more pleasantly 
situated, overlooking a small lake ; it has however been deserted for the latter 
place, and is almost in ruins. Lat. 26° 49' N. long. 86° 31' E. 

Benoehmow. — ^This town is situated on a small river, is surrounded by 
clumps of mangoe trees, and has the appearance of having formerly been 
much more considerable. Lat. 26® 54' N. long. 80® 7' E. 44 miles W. from 
Lucknow. 

SuLTAXOUNOE. — A town in the Oude territories, 45 miles W. N.W. from 
Lucknow. Lat. 26® 58' N. long. 80® 7' E. 

Ramounoe. — ^A town in the Oude territories, 27 miles S. W, from Lucknow. 
Lat. 26 ® 88' N. long. 80® 30' E. 

Ak am. — ^A town in the Oude territories, 34 miles S. W. from Lucknow. Lat 
26" 34 ' N. long. 80® 22' E. 

PooawAit (Purva). — A town in the Oude territories, 29 miles S. S. W. from 
Lucknpw. Lat. 26® 30' N. long. 80® 37' E. 



THE PROVINCE 


550 

Doondeakera (Dundyacara ). — town in the Oude temtories/48 miles S. 
by W. from Lucknow. Lat. 26° 12' N. long. 80° 36' E. 

Roy Bareilly. — town in the Oude territories, situated on the north 
side of the Sye river, 46 miles S. S. E. fron> Lucknow. Lat. 26® M' N. long. 
81° 6' E. 

Oude. — This town stands on the south side of the Goggra river, 79 miles E. 
from Lucknow. Lat. 26° 48 N. long. 82° 4' E. And by Abul Fazel, in 1682, 
is described as follows : “ Oude is one of the largest cities of Hindostan. In 
ancient times this city is said to ha'^e measured 148 coss (296 English miles) in 
length, and 36 coss (72 miles) in breadth. Upon sifting the earth which is round 
this city, small grains of gold are sometimes found in it. This town is esteemed 
one of the most sacred places of antiquity.” 

Pilgrims resort to this vicinity, where the remains of the ancient city of Oude, 
the capital of the Great Rama, are still to be seen ; but whatever may have 
been its former magnificence, it now exhibits nothing but a shapeless heap of 
ruins. The modern town extends a considerable way along the banks of the 
Goggra, adjoining Fyzabad, and is tolerably well populated ; but the interior is 
a mass of rubbish and jungle, among which are the reputed sites of temples 
deciicated to Rama, Seeta, Lakshman, and Hanumaun. The religious mendi- 
cants who perform the pilgrimage to Oude are chiefly of the Ramata sect, who 
walk round the temples and idols, bathe in the holy pools, and perform the cus- 
tomary ceremonies., 

Hyatnagub. — k town in the Oude territories, 50 miles E. from Lucknow, 
Lat. 26° 49' N. long. 81° 33' E. 

Fyzabad ( a beautiful residence ). — The capital of the Oude dominions during 
the reign of Shuja ud Dowlah, but abandoned for Lucknow in 1775 by his son 
and successor, Asoph ud Dowlah; situated on the south side of the Gc^^fra 
river, 78 miles E. from Lucknow. This city is still of considerable extent, and 
contains a numerous population, chiefly of the lower classes ; the great mem 
bankers, money changers, and merchants, having migrated with the court to 
Lucknow. The remains of a fortress, and of Shuja ud Dowlah’s palace are still 
to be seen. 

Latterly Fy 2 abad has been chiefly remarkable as the residence of the cele- 
brated Bhow Begum, the widow of Shuja ud Dowlah, and mother of Aso|^ ud 
Dowlah, but not as is generally supposed of the late Nabob Saadet All. "ntc 
original intention of this lady, announced to the Marquis Wellesley in the nwet 
solemn manner, was to transfer the whole of her property, rwd and persoH^f ^ 
the British government, and to constitute that power sole heir a^ e«?btttor at 
her death. The just right of the Be gum to transfer, and of the British gofcni* 



OF OUDE. 351 

ment to ac(jept her highnesses legacy, with reference to her personal property, 
could not be doubted, but the government immediately rejected a proposal so 
honourable and advantageous to itself, and recommended an arrangement by 
which, after suitably providing for ber own interment, and for her relations a;nd 
dependants, the remainder of her vast property should devolve to her grandson, 
Ghazi ud Been, the present Nabob of Oude. In 1813, an attempt was made to 
induce the Begum to place in the immediate charge of the British government a 
portion of her wealth adequate to the fulfilment of her contemplated bequests, 
but without success. 

The Bhow Begum departed this life on the 28th of December, 1815, after an 
illness of a few days, aged 84, and on the 19th of February, 1816, Mr. Strachey 
(then resident at Lucknow,) proceeded to Fyzabad to carry into effect the pro- 
visions of her will. The amount of her treasure (exaggerated by the natives to 
twenty crores and thirty-five lacks), according to the statements furnished by 
Dareb All Khan, who, in concert with Captain Robertson commanding the guard 
at Fyzabad, had examined the coffers, was 8,948,916 rupees (£1,038,074 sterling), 
exclusive of jewels, shawl goods, wearing apparel, cattle, &c. &c. &c. The last 
mentioned description of property, together with the jaghires of the late Begum, 
which even under her mismanagement yielded eight lacks of rupees per annum 
(£92,800), was made over to the Nabob of Oude, whose son repaired to Fyzabad 
to take charge of it. The aggregate amount of the pensions for which the British 
government had become responsible, required a capital of 5,011,470 rupees, to 
which sum three lacks, payable to Dareb Ali Khan, for the expense of the 
mausoleum, and one lack for donations to holy shrines, were to be added. Other 
items swelled the total capital received by the British government for the purpose 
of executing the provisions of the Begum’s will to 6,250,748 rupees. Out of 
this, three lacks were to be paid for the erection of a mausoleum, and one lack of 
ofierings at the holy shrines of Kerbela and Nujuflf. The remainder, therefore, 
left in the hands of the British government to cover the pensions, &c. (about 
350,000 rupees per annum,) to be paid to the Begum’s relations and dependants 
through Dareb Ali Khan, amounted to 5,850,748 rupees (£678,606). 

After all these deductions from the Begum’s property, the Nabob’s residue 
amounted to 2,697,168 rupees in money, besides jewels and other valuables of 
'aduchno estimate was made, and his excellency, as above-mentioned, succeeded 
to an estate of eight lacks of rupees per annum. Subsequently a fraudulent 
attempt was to pass off a surreptitious will, purporting to be that of the 
late Begum, but the forgery was detected, and measures taken to discover and 
punUb Bie euntrivers of it. — ( Public MS. DocumaUSt M<yor Baillie, 4* 4®-.) 

JvomKmmoA . — A town in the Oude lerritmies^ 53 miles S. £. from Lucknow. 
Ut. aff N. 1^, 81*63' E. 



THE PROVINCE 


352 

SiiAiizAnpooR. — A town in the Oude territories, 38 miles S. E. from Fyzabad. 
Lat. 2G° 24' N. long. 82* 27' E. 

Taunda. — ^T his town is situated on the south side of the Goggra river, 33 
miles S. E. from Fyzabad. Lat. 26® 33' N. long. 82® 32' E. Cloths of a quality 
similar to Bengal cossaes, and having the same name, are fabricated in the neigh- 
bourhood of Taunda. 

Acbeupoor ( Acbat'pura ). — A town in the Nabob of Oude's territories, 36 
miles S. E. from Fyzabad. Lat. 26® 26' N. long. 82® 25' E. 

Javes. — A town in the Oude territories, 58 miles S. E. from Lucknow. Lat. 
26® 15' N. long. 81° 28' E. 

Aumeatie. — A town in the Nabob of Oude’s territories, 37 miles N. E. from 
Manicpoor. Lat. 26° 8' N. long. 81° 46' E. 

Bauaitche ( Bharcch ). — A district in the province of Oude, extending along 
the north side of the Goggra river, and separated from the Nepaulese dominions 
by a lofty range of hills. A section of this division was ceded to the British 
government in 1 800, but the greater proportion still remains within the reserved 
territories of the Nabob Vizier. The northern parts towards the hills are covered 
w'ith primeval forests, never visited by the axe ; but towards the Goggra the 
country is open, fertile, and tolerably well cultivated. The Goggra and Rapty 
are the principal rivers ; the chief towns are Baraitche and Bulrampoor. By 
Abul Fazel, in 1582, it is described as follows : “ Circar Berayitch, containing 
11 mahals, measurement 1,823,435 begahs, revenue 24,120,525 dams, seyurghal 
466,482. This circar furnishes 1170 cavalry, and 14,300 infantry.” 

Baraitche. — Situated 64 miles N. E. from Lucknow, in lat. 27® 33' N. long. 
81° 30 E. By Abul Fazel, in 1582, (and we have nothing more recent) it is 
described as follow s : “ Baraitche is a large city delightfully situated on the river 
Sy. Sultan Massaood and Rejeb Sillar are both buried here, and held in great 
veneration.” 

Toolseepoor (Tulasipura ). — A town in the Oude territories, 50 miles N. by 
E. from Fyzabad. Lat. 27® 29' N. long. 82® 17' E. 

Gooxda. — A town in the Oude territories, 28 miles N. by E. from Fyzabad. 
Lat. 27® O' N. long. 81® 52' E. 

Bulrampoor. — A town in the Oude territories, 42 miles N. from Fyzabad. 
Lat. 27® 24' N. long. 82° 4' E. 

Mullahpoob. (Mulapur ). — ^A town in the Oude territories, 61 miles N. N. 
E. from Lucknow. Lat. 27® 41' N. long, 81® 11' E. 

Tahmoor. — A town in the Oude territories, 60 miles N. by E. from l^cloaow. 
Lat 27® 42' N. long. 81® 4' E. 

Nahavpara. — fk. town in tiie Oude territories, 78 mites N. E* fromLwdoaow. 

Lat. 27® 6(y N. tong. 81 ® 27' E. 



OF OUDE. 353 

BiiojiPocMt. A town in the Oude territories, 102 miles N. from the city of 
Lucknow. Lat. 28“ 20* N. long. 80* 53' E. 

BuntAPooft (Mhafatpur)k — A town in riie Oude territories, 100 mile&Tf. by 
B. Bum Lucknow. Lat. 28° 15' N. long. 81° 1' £. 

Semak AG OR. — A. town in the Oude territories, 41 miles north from Khyrabad. 
Lat.- 28° 4' N. long. 80* 40' E. 

Kutrauad . — A district in the north division of the Oude province, within 
the Nabob's territories, and situated principally between the 27 th and 28th 
degrees of north lat. By Abul Fazel, in -1682, it is described as follows : “ Circar 
Kh^bad, containing 22 mahals, measurement 1,987,700 begahs, revenue 
43,644,381 dams, seyurghal 1,713,342 dams. This circar furnishes 1160 cavalry 
and 27,800 infantry.” 

Khyrabad is a fertile district, and well supplied with water from many streams 
flowing south-west from the mountains, but the extent and rtature of the cultiva- 
tion is very inferior to the adjacent districts under the British government. The 
principal crops are barley, wheat, tobacco, and small peas. The soil is of a light 
>andy nature, easily pulverized, and during the dry season ascends with the wind 
m clouds of dust, yet in the cold season the crops are frequently injured by the 
irost. There are some fields of sugar cane, but this species of cultivation, which 
requires a steady mid just political government to ensure to the peasant the fruits 
of his labour, is but very ill conducted. The principal rivers are the Ganges, 
Goomty, and Goggra; the chief towns Khyrabad, Shahabad, and Narangabad. — 
(Temumt, Abul Fazel, 

Khvrabad. — T he capital and denominator of the above district, is situated in 
lat. 27*' 30' N. long. 80° 40' E. 45 miles N. by W. from Lucknow. 

SuNDEELA. — A town in the Oude territories, 31 miles N. Wi from Lucknow. 
Lat. 2r 4' N. long. 80° 27' E. 

Biswau (Tiswa ). — ^A town in the Oude territories, 43 miles N. from Luck- 
now. Lat. 27* 28' N. long. 80° 6' E. 

Maswev . — A town in the Oude territories, 35 N. by W. from Lucknow. 
Lat. 27° 18' N. long. 80° 26' E. 

Motcueruuttah (Matsyahata, the Juh market). — A town in the Oude terri- 
tories, 41 miles N. by W. from Lucknow. Lat. 27° 24' N. long. 80° 36' E. 

MAfiOMDT ( Mahomedi ). — A town in the Oude territories, 58 miles S. E. from 
Bueily. Lat. 27* 58' N. long.'80° 5' E. 

Naraxcabax) (Naringa Abad). — A town in the Oude territories, 72 milet 
N. W. from Khyrabad. Lat. 27° 46' N. long. 80* 18' E. 

Peyauxet. — ^A town in the Oude' territories, 68 miles N. N. W. from Luck 
now. Lat. 27° 38' N. long. 80° 10' E. 
vet.. 1, 


z t 



354 THE PROVINCF. [district of 

Shahabad.' — A town in the Oude territories, 30 miles N. W. from Furruck* 
abad. Ut. 27“ 40' N. long. 79* 50' E. 

Belgram ( Balagrama). — ^This town, though now reduced, is of some anti- 
quity, being described by Abul Fazel, in 1582, as very healthy and famous for 
producing men with melodious voices. It is still distinguished by a ruinous fort 
and moat. The decayed buildings appear to have been in the best style of 
Mogul architecture ; but the present inhabitants, few in number, dwell in small 
structures either of mud or timber. — ( Abul Fazel, Tennant, &;c.) 

Ml’layne. — A large village in the Oude territories, 50 miles N. W. from 
Lucknow. Lat. 27® 3' N. long. 80* 50' E. The inhabitants are numerous, but 
the place is mean and irregular, consisting almost entirely of small mud huts. 
The surrounding country is tolerably well cultivated. 

Sandy (Sandi). — A town belonging to the Nabob of Oude, in the district of 
Khyrabad, 65 miles N. W. from Lucknow. Lat. 27° 19' N. long. 79° 52' E. In 
recmit times the inhabitants of the pergunnah attached to Sandee have been 
distinguished for their turbulent and predatory habits, which have given infi- 
mte trouble to the contiguous British authorities. 

THE DISTRICT OF GORUCPOOR (Gorakhpur). 

This district is situated in the province of Oude, about the 27th degree of 
north latitude. To the north it is bounded by the hills and forests of Nepaul ; 
on the south by the course of the Goggra river ; to the east it has the district of 
Sarun ; and on the west the Nabob of Oude’s reserved territories. By Abul 
Fazel, in 1582, it is described as follows; “ Circar Gorucpoor, containing 24 
mahals; measurement 244,283 begahs; revenue 11,926,790 dams ; seyurghal 
51,235. This Circar furnishes 1,010 cavalry, and 22,000 infantry.” 

This territory is said to have been in a flourishing condition during the long 
reign of the Emperor Acber, and to have continued so under the Nabobs of Oude, 
until the defeat of Shuja ud Dowlah at Buxar, after which, owing to the efforts of 
the Rajas and zemindars to render themselves independent, much confusion en- 
sued, and a consequent suspension of cultivation. The first and second ranges of 
hills extend in a westerly direction froto the district, so that the hot winds are 
scarcely experienced in the northern parts. Easterly winds prevail generally 
throughout the whole of the year, and in the hot season the ni^ts and mornings 
arc cool and pleasant. The climate, however, is not generally fevourable to 
health, on account of the extent of jungle and stagnate water, over which the 
easterly wind must make its approach. Instances may be found of many other 
distriets subject to the British government, in which the cultivated ^nd bwurs 
but a small proportion to the uncultivated, but in none to so great a magnitude 



ooRucpooB.] OF OUDE. 355 

as in Gorucpoor. Indeed, in 1814, the superintendent of the police reported, 
that the whole tract north of the capital was waste and almost uninhabited, and 
that in consequence the existence of a police was merely nominal, some of the 
thannahs (stations) comprehending 1,500 square miles. These forests in ancient 
times have often been the refuge of governors, princes, and pretenders, who had 
raised unsuccessfully the standard of rebellion, and in modern times have been 
abandoned to the wild elephants and other unclaimed animals. The former, 
although of an inferior quality, are caught by the natives, but not in whole 
herds as is practised in Silhet and Tiperah. In general they are either seized 
singly in pits, or decoyed by the intervention of female elephants, in both of 
which processes many are killed and still more maimed. 

At some seasons of the year the second range of hills is visible from the town 
of Gorucpoor under an angle of forty degrees. The general height of this 
range above the plains of Gorucpoor is 4,000 feet, and that of the first range 
2,100 feet. At the base of this last is the Terriani, or low country, intersected 
by many streams, which issue from the hills, and afterwards fall into the Rapty, 
a river of secondary magnitude. The great forest which commences near the 
capital, extends through this low tract as far as the first range of hills. It varies 
considerably in breadth, and in some places is so open as to admit with ease the 
passage of elephants, while in others it is scarcely to be penetrated by a human 
creature. In this forest, and the jungle connected with it, game of all descrip- 
tion abounds. Among the quadrupeds, elephants, rhinoceroses, tigers, bears, 
and buffaloes, may be enumerated ; and among the winged, the beautiful and 
high-flavoured florican, (the otis houbara of Linnaeus). The Terriani fever, 
at all times dangerous, is more particularly so in the months of May and June, 
and Usually proceeds to its termination, good or bad, with great rapidity. By 
the natives it is ascribed to the water, but it probably results from a combination 
of noxious qualities in the air, water, and soil. 

It is said that prior to the battle of Buxar, Gorucpoor realized a revenue of 
28 lacks of rupees, and that at least two lacks more were raised by the Aumils 
for their own private emolument ; but this report does not appear to rest on any 
good authority. The district came into tlie possession of the British in 1,801, 
during the government of the Marquis Wellesley, when it was ceded by the 
Nabob of Oude in commutation of subsidy. 

The jumma, or land assessment to the revenue, in 1808-9 was 1,585,885 

Ditto, 1809 1,656,060 

Ditto, 1810 1,671,406 

Ditto, 1811 1,684,909 

Ditto, 1812 1,716,650 

DStto, 1618 1,775,377 


s a 2 



THE PROVINCE 


356 


[disteict of 


In 1815, during the war with Nepaul, with the view of increasing the popu*- 
lation, arrangements were made for settling in this district a class of pers<m8 
named Tharoos, and such other inhabitants of the hills as might seek an asylum 
within the British territories. Early in that year ono of the chief .Tharoos 
reported to the collector that about 3,000 of his tribe were assembled in a 
mangoe grove, at Cumareeah, a village situated in the Setassee jungles, belonging 
to the Ranny of Gudjepoor, and that more were expected. In deliberating 
on this measure it was thought, that the aggregation of the Tharoos into com* 
munities would be more agreeable to them, than being scattered in small num- 
bers among strangers, and that as their habits were understood to be industrious 
and pacific, no motive for their dispersion, or for wishing them to merge into the 
mass of the surrounding population appeared to exist. On the contrary, it was 
thought probable, that the preservation of their distinct and original habits, 
which enabled them to resist the pestiferous atmosphere of the jungles, might 
be turned to good account in some future hostile emergency. 

It was determined therefore to assign them tracts of waste land, of which there 
was abundance, some retaining traces of former cultivation ; but the Tharoos 
objected to such as were too near the hills, where they would be under continual 
apprehensions of an attack from the Gorkhas, their old masters. The spot at 
last selected was the pergunnah of Setassee Gudjepoor, which, although , of an 
excellent soil, was covered with jungle, and wholly uncultivated. This tract is 
situated between two rivers, the Rohem and the Powaya; the first flowing 
on the east side, and the latter on the western. The extent of land from east to 
west is three coss, and from north to south five coss, and situated due north of 
Gorucpoor, about half way to the hills ; and the agents of the Ranny of Gudje- 
poor declared their willingness to give up the above described tract nf waste 
land. In consequence of the delays attendant on every similar arrangement, 
great sickness and heavy rains, many of the Tharoos, who had been collected, 
dispersed ; but prior to the 19th of July, 1816, above 2,000 Tharoos had eieoted 
huts, and commenced cultivation in the Setassee jungles, money having been ad- 
vanced them by the government to procure seed and cattle, and a certain 
quantity of rice supplied for their immediate subsistence. After the conchimon 
of the Pindarry wars, a colony of a more questionable character was establudied, 
a celebrated leader of that banditti named Kurreem Khan, his nephew and 
adopted son, with some of their followers, having had lands assigned thesfn in 
Gorucpoor, equivalent to a revenue of 1,000 rupees per month. 

Under these circumstances and on account of its local contigoity to two inde- 
pendent states (Ottde and Nepaul) the Gorucpoor district appears too e^cteudve 
maiiKtenance of an efficient police. In 1814, most the deep«9ati wffi- 
hecifs perpetrated in Gornepoor, were escribed to t tribe of pewlei^b^ 



OF OUDE. 


oonuc?ooE.] 


357 


Murw^lis, or Geedier Mfiturst who are robbers by profession, resembling in every 
respect the Buddicks of the Agra province. These depredators have no fixed 
habitations, but mostly frequent the Oude dominions, as best adapted for their 
operations, fei 1815, public treasure to the amount of 20,000 rupees, was 
carried off by a large body of Dacoits, who effected their escape into the terri- 
tories of his excellency the Nabob Vizier. On this occasion 4 of the Burkin- 
dauzes escorting the treasure were killed, and 15 wounded. — ( J. Ahmuty, J. W. 
Grant, Pu^Gc Journals, Capt. Stontham, Blunt, 8^'c. 8^'c.) 

GqaucvooR. — ^Thistown stands on the east side of tixe Rapty, 146 miles N. W. 
from Patna. Lat. 26® 46' N. long. 83° 19' E. 

Bulluah.— a town ii^ the Gonicpoor district, 42 miles S. E. from the town 
of Gerucpoor. liat. 26° 46' N. long. 83° 53' E. 

Mutghur ( Mutighar ). — A town in the Gonicpoor, district 16 miles west from 
the town of Gonicpoor. Lat. 26° 45' N.. long. 83° 4' E. 

Buckrah. — A town in the Gorucpoor district, situated on the banks of the 
Buckrah Jeel, named also the Lakshmisar lake, the theme of an indecent and 
popular Hindostany song. Lat. 23 miles N. W. from Gorucpoor. Lat. 26° 4' N. 
long. 85® 10' E. 

Busts £ (Basti, a dwelling). — ^A town in the Gorucpoor district, 40 miles W. 
from the town of Gorucpoor. Lat. 26° 48' lon^82° 41' E. 

Banst ( Vansi ). — ^A tOMm in the Gorucpoor dismct, 40 miles N. E. from the 
town of Gorucpoor. Lat. 29° 9' N. long. 82° 52' E. 

Butool ( Butaul).—This small subdivision of the Oude province is within the 
limits of the British territories, although the village of Butool, from whence its 
name originates, belongs to the Nepaulese. In 1802, a considerable portion of 
the lands belonged to the Palpah Raja, and were tolerably well cultivated, prin- 
cipally by emigrants from the Oude territories ; but on the cession of Gorucpoor 
to the British, the cause of migration having ceased to operate, many returned 
to the south. At that period there were many merchants in the town of Butool 
from Benares and also from the northern countries of Nepaul, Bootan, and Tibet. 
These last brought for sale gold, brass, iron, copper, bees-wax, and other pro- 
ductions of the north ; and took in return cotton cloths, curwahs, broad cloth, 
and other commodities. The pass of Butool is most inconveniently situated for 
trade, yet became a considerable mart owing to the shutting of the other passes 
by the Gorkhas. In 1812, the value of Butool and Sheoraj was assumed at 
40,000 rupees per annum, for which the settlement had been made by Prithi Pal, 
the Ibrmer'Rflya of Palpa^ shortly after possession had been obtained of them 
frost Bie Nid>ob of Oude. 

"nie village of Butool, denominated Khas ButooL » situated at the baae of 



358 THE PROVINCE OF OU0E. 

the hills, on the west bank of the Tenavy. Lat. 37' N. long. 83* 31' E. 64 
miles N. from the town of Gorucpoor. It stands on the plain, and is the only 
place, so situated, that was left to the Gorkhas, west of the Gunduck, by the 
treaty of 1815. In reality, it is a very undesirable possession, as it stands in a 
recess of the mountains, and is so dreadfully unhealthy, that no one inhabits it 
during the rainy season. Besides this, it was clearly established by inquiry that 
the town of Butool had never belonged to the Nabob of Oude, of course the 
British who succeeded to the rights of that provmcc had no claim to its posses- 
sion. The Butool Raja formerly possessed extensive dominions among the hills, 
where he was known as Raja of Palpa, but of these he was stripped by the 
predominance of the Gorkhas.— (^/. Ahmutii, Routledge, ^'C, ^'c. 

SoopooR.— A town in the Gorucpoor district, 62 miles N. N. E. from the town 
of Gorucpoor. Lat. 27° 20' N. long. 84° 3' E. 

Lotu\.---A town in the Gorucpoor district, 35 miles north from the town of 
Gonicpodr. Lat. 27° 14' N, long. 83° 13' E. 

Sarrowlv. — A town in the Gorucpoor district, 51 miles N<W. from the town 
of Gontcpoor. Lat. 27° 18' N. long. 82° 47' E. 



THE PROVINCE OF AGRA. 


This large geographical subdivision of Hindostan Proper, is situated principally 
between the 25th and 28th degrees of north latitude. On the north it is bounded 
by the province of Delhi, on the south by that of Malwah ; to the east are the 
provinces of Oude and Allahabad, and on the west that of Ajmeer. In length 
it may be estimated at 250 miles by 180, the average breadth. In the institutes 
of Acber, compiled by Abul Fazel, A. D. 1582, this province is described as 
follows : 

The soubah of Agra is situated in the second climate. In length, from 
Ghatimpoor (Gautumpoor), which confines it on the side of Allahabad, to 
Pulwall, the boundary towards Delhi, it measures 175 coss; its breadth is 
from Kanoje to Chandree in Malwah. This soubah contains 13 districts, viz. 
1, Agra; 2, <^lpee; 3, Kanoje; 4, Cowl; 5, Gualior; 6, Irej; 7, Sauwan; 8, 
Narwar; 9, Mundlayer; 10, Alvar; 11, Tejareh; 12, Narnoul; 13, Sehar. 
These districts are subdivided into 203 pergunnahs. The amount of the revenud 
is 16,156,257 rupees. It furnishes 50,600 cavalry; 477,570 infantry; and 221 
elephants.” 

'hie principal modem geographical and political subdivisions are the following: 

1. Agra district. 5. Calpee, Gohud, and Gualior. 

2. Tlie Doab. 6. The Bhurtpoor territories. 

3. The district of Etaweh. 7. Alvar or Machery. 

4. The Furrackabad district. 8. The Alighur district. 

The sur&ce of tl>i« province to the north-east of the Jumna is in general flat 
and open, and rather bare of trees, but to the south of the Chumbul, and also 
towards the western frontier, it becomes more hilly and jungly. The climate 
Imr the greater part of the year is temperate, and during the winter months 
actually cold; but while the hot winds prevail, like other central regions of 
Hb l jdftofiin, the heat is intense, and the climate unhealthy, especially in the hilly 
<|ttaiter ; but fortunately their continuance is not of long duration. The chief 
rivers of the province are the Jumna, the Chumbul, and Ae Ganges, besides 
many snmller streams such as the Sinde and Koharry ; but upon the whole the 
C0U|[|lry is indifferently supplied with water ; and to the north of the Chumbul, 
and OB the weatera frontier, during the dry season, except in the immediate 



THE PROVINCE 


360 

vicinity of the large rivers which flow with a perpetual current, watwr for 
agricultural purposes is procured from wells. A great proportion of the cultiva- 
tion is consequently restricted to such crops, as do not, like nee, require a 
redundant supply of moisture. Various streams have their sources in the north 
western hills, and during the rains flow with a considerable volume, but even 
then they do not reach the Jumna, Chumbul, or any other large depot of water, 
being, during their progress, either absorbed by the thirsty soil, or abstracted 
by the husbandman for the purposes of agriculture. The soil is particularly 
adapted for the cultivation of indigo, cotton, and sugan which might be raised 
in any quantity, and the production of which is in fact annually increasing in 
the portions of the province under the immediate jurisdiction of the Britij^ 
government. In those subject to native chiefs, all processes of agriculture are 
still in a very backward state. The Agra province contains no remarkable or 
peculiar, mineral productions, and the animals are such as are usually found in 
other parts of Hindostan ; but the horses are reckoned much superior to any 
produced further east, with the exception of those bred in the Company’s stud 
in Tirhoot. While describing the local subdivisions into which the country is 
distributed, other particulars of this nature will be noticed. 

The principal article manufactured in this province is coarse cotton cloth, but 
the quantity exported is not great. The Bengal hnd Bahar provinces receive 
annually an importation of cotton, from the country south of the Chumbul, by 
the route of Calpee ; but a considerable portion of it is the growth of Malwah 
and the Maharattas territories to the south-east of Agra. The Doab, or terri- 
tory included between the Ganges and the Jumna, which may be termed the 
garden of the province, exports indigo, sugar, and cotton. The country to the 
north-west of Agra, under the Macherry Raja of Alvar, and other native chiefs, 
being scantily supplied with water, is of a very inferior qudity, and compara- 
tively unproductive. Upon the whole, the province is but thinly populated 
when compared with Bengal, Tanjore, and the more flourishing of the British 
provinces, and does not probably in ail its dimensions contain more than rix 
millions of inhabitants, of which the Doab districts under British jurisdiqtkm 
comprehend a considerable proportion. At present this province is portituKied 
nearly in the following manner : 

The north-western and western districts, to the north of the Chumbul, are 
possessed by the Rajas of Macherry and Bhurtpoor, and other native chiefs, in 
alliance with and under the protection, from external mvasion, of the B^frah 
government. These petty states form a boundary towards the dominions of the 
Ajmeer Rajpoots, and of the Malwah Maharattas. AU the province to the eai^ 
of the Jumna, with a district round the city of Agra, is possessed by the British 



OF AGRA. 


961 

govem&Mt, which has in that city instituted a regular dvil estabUshnnuit far 
tibe administration of justice, and collection of the revenue. The country to the 
south of the Chumbul, comprehending Gualior, Gohud, Narwar, &c. with 
exception of the town and district of Culpee, is either in the ponession of or 
tributary to Dowlet Row Sindia, who, by the arrangements of 1803, was shut 
out from Hindostan, north of the Chumbul. 

The chief towns in the Agra province besides its capital, are Alvar (or Aloor) 
the capital of the Macherry Raja ; Bhurtpoor the capital of the Jauts ; Deeg, 
another strong Jaut fortress; Mathura, Kanoje, Etaweh, Gualior, Gohud, Calpee, 
Ifarwar, and Furruckabad. The natives are in general a handsome robust race 
of men, and consist of a mixture of Hindoos and Mahommedans, few of the 
Seiks having yet come so fiir south. A considerable number of the cultivators to 
the west of the Jumna are Jauts, and the country of the Macherry Rajas con- 
tains many Mewaties, long noted for their thievish propensities. The Hindoo 
religion is stiH the predominant, although the country has been permanently 
subject since the 13th century to the Mahommedans. The language of the 
cmnmon intercourse is the Hindostany, but the Persian is used for public and 
offidal documents, and also in conversation among the higher classes of Ma- 
hommedans. The Bruj dialect is spoken round the city of Agra, and extends 
to the Vindhya mountains. In the words of the Lord's prayer in this language, 
28 correspond with those occurring in the Bengalese or Hindostany specimens, 
besides 2 or 3 Sanscrit words of frequent recurrence in the Bengalese. The 
andmit language of Kanoje, the capital of Upper Hindostan at the period of 
the first Mahommedan invasion, is thought by Mr. Colebrooke to form the basis 
of the modem Hindostany. 

In the remote ages of Hindoo antiquity, this province must have formed a 
very important division of Hindostan, as it contained Kanoje, Mathura, and 
Bindrabund, the seats of their most famous empires, and still among the most 
vmteroted places of pilgrimage. The city of Agra is also supposed to have been 
the birth place of the Avatar, or incarnation of Vishnu, under the nwne of Parasu 
Ratna^ whose conquests extended to, and included Ceylon. After the Mahom- 
medan invasion it followed the fate of Delhi, and during the reign of Acber, as 
containi^ tl^ metropolis, was the leading province of the empire. Subsequent 
to toh deatii of Aurengzebe in 1707, it was alternately possessed and ravaged by 
toe Jauts, Maharattas, and diifarent commanders deputed from DelM to restore 
tohsinqierial authority. One of the latter, Nudjiff Khan, governed the provinces 
toPtto 4^ tim Chumbul from 1777, until Us death, independent of all contronl 
<ke JkM soveieign.-<^**rf Scott, Cokbrooke, Mummuiu, WU- 

VMiit. tA 



362 * TH£ PROVINCE [distmct op 

Chumbul River. — ^This river has its source in the province of Malwah» 40 
miles S. W. from the city of Oujein, and 60 north of the Nerbuddah. Its course 
is afterwards for a considerable space nearly due north, until it passes the town of 
Kotah, after which it turns more to the east, and at last, after having been aug- 
mented by many streams, falls into the Jumna 25 miles below Etaweh. The 
length of its course, windings included, may be estimated at 600 miles. Hie 
breadth of its channel at the ford of Kyteree, near Dhoolpoor, is three quarters 
of a mile. Here the southern bank is bold and lofty, and in the rainy seaso n, 
when the channel is full, the prospect of such a body of water, bounded by hills 
of various snapes, presents a striking contrast to the vast plain between the 
Cranges and the Jumna. 

This river is often named the Sumbul, and is supposed by Major Rennel to be 
the Sambus of Arrian. It now forms the boundary which separates the British 
territories in Hindostan Proper, from those of Dowlet Row Sindia to the sooth. 
— f HttfUer, iSr John Malcolm, Rennell, ^c.J 

THE DISTRICT OF AGRA. 

The modem district of Agra adjoins the Delhi division, a short distance north 
of Kosee, and extends sdong the bank of the Jumna to its junction with the 
Chumbul. On the west it is boimded by the pergunnahs of Deeg. the Bhurtpoor 
territories, and the pergunnahs of Dholpoor, Barree and Rajakera. That portion 
situated between the Chumbul and the JumnU is a table land, elevated above the 
beds of both rivers about 60 feet, and composed of a light soil. In many part^ 
during the dry season, the tanks, streams, and rivulets, are without water, which 
for agricultural and domestic purposes must be procured from wells. Cultivation 
in this district, ^en compared with its condition in the Company’s old provinces, 
has made but little progress. The waste lands are very extensive, and a portion 
of them might, without injustice, be set asside for the maintenance of watchmen, 
or of any other public measure. This backward state of agriculture is, however, 
in agreat measure to be ascribed to its locality and the peculiar political relatiomi 
in which it is circumstanced ; the con^guity of independent statn, separated 
in many parts from the British territories by an imaginary boundary, and 
inhabited by tribes long noted for their predatory habits, sudb as the Mewaries 
and Buddicks, who after committing crimes in the limits of Agra and otlier 
British districts, find a secure asylum fi>r their persons and {juiidiHr In tto 
adjacent native states, or among the defiles and ravines which intetaect ,tW 
somhern portion of ^8 division. / 

The juswdiotion of Chata oMiaies 176 villages, and is betanled lidd li 
IMfitt, % dianlEfioiM. of the Nabob Ahmed Bakah Xlwn, and by nusPt|Ni^ 



aoea.] of AGRA. 363 

Tbe iidalutaiitg of this tract have always beoi, from time immemorial, most 
notorious robbers, and it is only within these few years that their roads could be 
passed with any degree of safety. This predatory disposition, in addition to the 
fiwilities afforded by its frontier position, and much jungle between the villages, 
requires a more than ordinary share of vigilance and vigour on the part of the 
magistrate, to retain the tract in tolerable subordination. Kosee is a place of 
consequence, wealth, and commercial importance. Nundgaow and Bursana are 
places of considerable resort, owing to the opinion which the Hindoos entertain 
of their sanctity ; but the inhabitants of the first, and of Muchhoe, have long had 
an evil reputation, and the latter being situated on the banks of the Jumna, its 
natives have fallen under the suspicion of exercising their ingenuity and activity, 
in transferring,the property of their neighbours in the Alighur division to their 
own respective dwellings. 

Sonk is a town of considerable size, and immediately on the frontier of the 
district; Hurbola is situated on the high road to Mathura. Between Secundra 
(near Agra) and Gaowghaut the country is barren, with much jungle, affording 
BO protection to travellers, but extremely well adapted for the concealment of 
thieves. Oil is immediately on the Bhurtpoor frontier, and much exposed. The 
neighbourhood of Jet, lying between Bindrabund and Choumaher, is famous for 
the bad character of its inhabitants, who too frequently avail themselves of the 
conveniences afforded by the neighbouring ravines and jungles. The Hindoo 
sanctuaries of Mathura and Bindrabund are two populous towns, where for 
security, and to promote an improved system of police, gates have been erected 
at the principal entrances, and at the heads of the streets and alleys. Prior to 
1812, an attempt was made to induce the zemindars to retain a number of 
watchmen in proportion to the ms^itude of theif different villages, but the 
burthen being found by experience greater than their resources could bear, the 
establishment was ultimately abandoned. In the section of the ^lice division 
contiguous to the lands of Raja Keemth Singh, a strong police b required, and 
4»i|^t to be maintained, to preserve tranquiUity; but in 1812, the only police 
officer entertained was a Bdahur, whose duty it was to report to the head of the 
police station the occurrences of his village, and even this Actionary complained , 
that hia ws^s were not paid with due punctuality. 

' The prevailing crime in the Agra district is that of robbery on the high way ; 
mA the connivance of the zemindars with the robbers, although difficult of direct 
firobl^ is an article of universal belief. The presumption is greatly strengtiiened 
istieo the condition of the country, prior to its coming under the Brititii govern* 
moiiti ia considered. At that period they opmdy iffielt»ed thieves and timed 
tiieur pbrnder ; and as the practice avowedly contiihies in the iaonediate nd^- 

3a 2 



364 THE PROVINCE [diweict of 

bourhood, the probability alittost amounts to a certainty, that the zemindaxa are 
acquainted arith the character and mode of life of every individual in their viUagm. 
The land revenue yielded by this district in 1804, did not exceed 8.fi00,000. 
although by Sindia's ministers it had been estimated at 13 lacks. It was thw 
held by Colonel Hessing, the commandant of Agra as jaidad. In 1813, the 
amount of the revenue yielded was 1,425,238 rupees. In that and the succeed* 
ing year this district experienced great distress from famine, many died of 
hunger, and others were glad to sell their women and children for a few rupees, 
and even for a single meal. In fact such was the distress, that in July, 1813, 
one half of the inhabitants were supposed to have migrated elsewhere in seardi 
of employment and food. When the rains of 1814 set in, advances were made 
to the cultivators, and many were induced to return ; but in censequtsuce of the 
great mortality among the cattle, many were obliged to have recourse to the hoe. 
Unfortunately the rains s^n proved partial and insufficient, the crops again 
failed, much misery was experienced by the peasantry, while the revenue 
balances rapidly accumulated. Notwithstanding this extreme distress, no 
violent affray occurred in the Agra district during 1816, at the beginning of 
which year there was no arrear of business on the judges file, suits having been 
disposed of within three months from the date of their institution. Adverting 
to the expanded nature of the frontier, and the limited existence of crime, the 
Agra district might then be considered as entitled to the first place in the scale 
of comparative efficiency within the Bareily division, a condition greatly ascribable 
to the exertions of Mr. Turner Ihe ms^trate. The average number of prisoners 
under confinement throughout the year 1813-14 was 853. — (R, Turmr, PuUic 
MS. Documents, Metcalfe, ^'c. l^'C.) 

Agra. — ^This city stands on the south west side of the Jumna, about 137 
travelling distance from Delhi. Lat. 27® IT N. long. 77® 53' E. By Abul 
Fazel, in 1582, it is described as follows : *' Agra is a lai^ city, the air of wfaidh 
is esteemed very healthy. The river Jumna runs through it for five coss. Tlie 
Emperor Acber founded here a most magnificent city. In former times Agnt 
was a village dependent on Biana and the district then attached to it. Citcar 
Agra contains 33mahals ; measurement 9,107,622 begahs ; revenue 191,719,265 
dams; seyurghal 14,566,818 dams. TWs circar furnishes 11,560 cavalry, and 
100,800 infantry.” 

The houses of Agra conmt of several stories, like those of Bemues, and the 
streets are so narrow as scarcely to admit a palanquin ; but mueffi the grestaiF 
part of this once flourishing city is now a heap of mins, and almost uninhabited. 
Six miles to the north of Agra is the maus<deum of Acber at Seeundin. 

Ihe summit of the minaret in front of it, a spectator i eye may lai^ oter 



OF AGRA. 


AOtA.] 


365 


drcdt of eomitryt not less than 30 miles in a direct line. The whole of this 
«|iaioe is flat* and filled with the mins of ancient grandeur ; at a distance, the 
rhm Jumna is seen, and the glittering towers of Agra. In the month of June, 
the rivmr Jumna at Agra is half a mile broad, and it is not fordable here at any 
season. The city rises from its banks extending in a vast semicircle, and the 
fortress, in which is included the imperial palace, is of great extent. In 1813, 
to promote objects of police, gates were erected^ at the different entrances, and 
at the heads of the streets and alleys. 

The fort of Agra, or Acberabad, is of a very lai^ size, and strongly built of 
a kind of red stone of the hardness and colour of jasper, brought from the 
quarries of Futtehpoor. It has a ditch of great depth and a double rampart: 
^ inner one being of an enormous height, with bastions at regular distances. 

The extensive ruins which surround Agra, added to the celebrity of its name, 
probably gave rise to the exaggerated idea entertained of its present magnitude 
and population ; the portion of the town, however, which is inhabited, is com- 
prehended within a very small compass. It does not appear that any enumera- 
tion of the inhabitants has ever been made, but if the amount of town duties 
on grain imported for their consumption, compared with Furruckabad and 
Bareily, may be taken as any criterion, the inference would be, that Agra is the 
least populous of the three. In 1813, these duties for Agra were 16,251 
rupees ; for Furruckabad, 22,000 mpees; and for Bareily, 22,101 mpees. Upon 
the whole, this city may be considered inferior in population to Bareily ; and 
the population of Mathura and Bindrabund in the Agra district are exceeded by 
those of Pillibeet and Sbahjehanpoor, in that of Bareily. The present number 
of inhabitants is probably within 60,000 ; but this population may eventually 
be expected to increase, from the facility Agra affords to the commerce of the 
west of Hindostan, which is already great, as will appear from the following 
statement of the amount paid into the treasury on account of duties received 
at the custom-house : 

In 1812-13 673,006 

1813-14 922,157 

In 1818, the increase of commerce in consequence of the tranquillization of 
was such, that the customs of Agra exceeded those of the preceding 
year by 130,000 rupees, and they have since continued progressively on the 
"imBieaae. 

This city was greatly enlarged and embellished by the Emperor Acber, who 
it his capital, and it had also the honour of being the birth-place of Abul 
Fe nd , his prime minister. In 1813, a pension of 50 rupees per month was 
glinled bj the Britu^ government to Mustapha Khan, a resident here, and the 



366 THE PROVINCE [district of 

reputed lineal descendant of that meritorious vizier. During the prevalence of 
the Gallo-Maharatta power in Hindostan, the pension to tMs k^idual had 
been reduced to the miserable pittance of 15 rupees per annum. 

The most remarkable edifice in modem Agra is the Tauje Mahal, erected by 
the Emperor Shah Jehan, for the celebrated Noor Jehan Begum. It is situat^ 
on the southern banks of the Jumna, about 3 miles from the fort of Agra, and is 
built entirely of white marble. It is enclosed within a space of 300 yards, ex- 
tending along the river, and is nearly 190 yards square. The dome rises from 
the centre, and is about 70 feet in diameter. The character of the British 
government in India being concerned in preventing injury or dilapidation to this 
celebrated building, in 1809 such repairs were ordered as time or accident might 
render necessary ; and a commjttee, consisting of the magistrate, collector, and 
commanding officer, appointeik to superintend them. Measures were also 
adopted for putting the funds assigned for the support of the building under a 
proper arrangement, and up to 1814, one lack of rupees had been expended in 
tlie repairs of the Tauje Mahal, and the Emperor Acber’s mausoleum at Se- 
cundra ; but in India, owing to the nature of the climate, the luxuriant vegeta- 
tion, and other causes, undertakings of this sort may be described as never 
ending, still beginning. The tomb of Kundehree Begum (another of Shah 
Jehan’s wives) has not been so fortunate, for while that of her rival has been 
repaired and adorned at a vast expense, the other is polluted by the presence of 
a court of justice, vrhich is held there. 

Agra, with the rest of the province, fell under the sway of Madhajee Sindia, 
and continued in the possession of the Maharattas until 1803, when it sur- 
rendered to the British army under Lord Lake. Among the artillery captured 
here was one enormous piece, named the great gun of Agra, of which the follow- 
ing are the dimensions : calibre of the gun 23 inches, metal at the muzzle 11-f 
inches ; length 14 feet 2 inches ; length of the bore 8 feet 8 inches ; length 
of the chamber 4 feet 4 inches ; diameter of ditto 10 inches ; weight of the gnn . 
96,600 pounds; weight of the ball of cast iron, 1500 pounds. Lord Lake . 
endeavoured to float it down as a trophy to Calcutta, with the view of having it 
afterwards sent to England, but it broke through the firame of the raft and aside 
into the sands of the river, where it prob&bly still remuns. It is not known b) 
whom it was fabricated. Agra was soon after its capture made the head quaitem 
of a civil establishment for the administration justice and collection of ^ 
revenue, subordinate to the Bareily court of circuit . A strong garrison ia niaan- 
tained in the fort and military cantesiments ; firom the vicinity of 
mderable inconvimience has bem experienced, by vagrants and see^diiig 

refuge there, beyond the jniiadietion of.^ magistmte or tegidair pdlioe^' The 



. OF AGRA. 


ACIU.] 


367 


efficiwdcy of tiie latter is also impeded by the local position of Agra in the vici- 
nity of independent native powers, being only 16 miles distant from the Raja of 
Bhurtpoor’s territories, and the same from the dominions of the Ranaof Gohud. 
The interior of the fortifications has recently been much improved both as to 
arrangement and cleanliness, and some of the bomb proofe and arcades cleared 
of the native huts by which they were encumbered, and rebuilt or repaired, 
the stone-masons of Agra being remarkably good workmen. The higher parts 
of the fort are from 50 to 60 feet above the level of the river, and as it is 
filled with buildings of brick, stone, and marble, the heat is excessive. — ( /?. 
Turner, Ker, A. Ross, Sir D. Ochterlony, Thorn, <§c. S^c. Sgc.) 

Jaiuow. — A. village in the province of Agra, 15 miles S. by W. from the city 
of Agra. Lat. 26° 59' N. long. 77° 52' £. This place is remarkable as having 
been the field of two decisive battles ; the first fought on the 8th of June, 1658, 
wherein Aurengzebe defeated his brother, Dara Shecoh ; and the second on the 
19th of June, 1707, between the son and grandson of Aurengzebe (Shah AUum 
and Azim Ushaun), in which the latter was defeated and slain. — ( Hunter, ^c.) 

Futtipoor. — ^This town stands about 19 miles W. S. W. from Agra. Lat. 
26® 6' N. long. 77° 34' E. It is enclosed by a stone wall of great extent, built 
by the Emperor Acber. The space within does not appear to have ever been 
filled up with buildings, and the part now inhabited is but an inconsiderable 
Tillage. The neighbouring hills are composed of greyish stone, and have sup- 
plied the materials with which the town is built. On the most elevated part of 
the* rock stands the tomb of Shah Selim Cheestee, by the efficacy of whose 
devotion the Empress of Acber, after remaining several years barren, became 
pregnant and bore a son ; who, in honour of the saint, was named Selim ; and 
on the throne of Hindustan, took the name of Jehangeer. — C Hun- 

ter, j 

Mathura. — ^This town is situated on the west bank of the Jumna, 30 miles 
N. N. W. from the city of Agra. Lat. 27° 31 N. long. 77“ 33' E. It acquired 
much celebrity in the tales of Hindoo mythology, as having been the scene of 
the birth and early adventures of their favourite deity, Krishna ; and on the 
Mahommedan invasion became one of the first objects of their attention, having 
and destroyed by Mahmood of Ghizni, so early as A. D. 1018. 
%i was subsequently rebuilt mid ornamented with several rich temples, the most 
omgnifioent of which was erected by Raja Beer Singh Deo, the Raja of Oorcha, 
and cost 36 lacks of rupees. This edifice was afterwards razed by Aurengzebe, 
*idio erected n mosque with the materials on the spot. In the fort are stdl to be 
pnen dm xemains if an astronomical observatory, built by Rrya Jeysingb, ut 
oil the banks of the Junuiiu 



368 THE PROVINCE [disteict of 

Mathura •continued subject to the Mog^l government until its dissoluUon* 
after which it experienced many misfortunes, especially in 1766, when Ahmed 
Shah Abdalli inflicted a general massacre on its inhabitants. Towards the eon* 
elusion of the 18th century, with the rest of the Agra province, it came into ^ 
possession of the Sindia Maharatta family, who conferred it on thdr com* 
mander-in-chief. General Perron. This officer made it his head quarters, strength- 
ened the defences, and established here his principal cannon foundery ; it was, 
however, taken without resistance by the British in 1803. On this occasion, tan 
extraordinary and striking contrast appeared in the conduct of Lord Lake, 
the leader of the army by which this place was taken, to that of Sultan Mah- 
mood. The English general not only protected the persons and respected the 
worship of the inhabitants, but ordered his own army while they lay within the 
precincts of the tow'n to abstain from tlie slaughtering of cattle, as their doing 
so would be deemed a sacrilege by the, Hindoos. Since that period it has con- 
tinued subject to the British government, and has been the head quarters of a 
military division for the protection of the upper pmvinces. 

Mathura, and Bindrabund in its vicinity, still continue the resort of Hindoo 
votaries, but they exhibit no remains of architectural magnificence similar to 
those still discovered in the temples of the Carnatic. There are a multitude of 
sacred monkies of a large sort fed here, and supported by a stipend bestowed 
by Madhajee Sindia. One of them was lame from an accidental hurt, and in 
consequence of this resemblance to his patron, who was lamed by a wound at 
the battle of Panniput, was treated with additional respect. In 1808, two 
young cavalry officers inadvertently shot at them, and were immediately at- 
tacked by the priests and devotees, and compelled to attempt to cross the 
Jumna on their elephant, in which endeavour they both perished. The fish in 
the Jumna which winds along the borders of Mathura, are equally j>rotected by 
the Hindoo faith, and are frequently seen to rise to the surfoce as if in expecta- 
tion of being fed . — (Sr John Malcolm, Scott, Captain Turner, Kyd, ^c.) 

Bixdeabond (Vrindavana ). — ^This is a large town situated on the west bank 
of the Jumna. 35 miles N. N. W. from the city of Agra. Lat. 27® 34' N. long. 
77® 34' E. The name, Vrindavana, ^gnifies a grove of tulsi trees, and the 
place is famous as having been the scene ‘of the youthful sports of Krishna, to 
whom many temples, still existing, were dedicated. Besides these, there are 
several sacred pools distinguished by the names of Radha, Syama, and Jeyacha, 
where the pilgrims by performing their ablutions wash away their sins. A 
flight of steps leading to the river is much revered as having been tiw pM> ' 
where Kri^ma fought with and defeated a s^ncyent of great dimohdoni i iiM A 
cadamba tree, as ti» spot where he used to ntiad play tipoh 



AOftA.3 OF AGRA. S69 

milks of hb bide ire said to be stUl perceptible on the tree, and of his flute 
iinong the branches. Near to Bindrabund there is a mountain named Goverd> 
hana, bent on one side owing to the following cause : During a great drought, 
when the people were worshipping Indra, the god of the heavens, Krishna, re- 
commended them to propitiate the deity of the mountain, wlpch they accord- 
inflly did. Krishna, then assuming the form of a god, sat on its top, from 
whence he stretched out his hand and devoured the food offered, but the weight 
of his body was such that the mountain bent under it ; in which shape it still 
continues. In the months of August and October, great multitudes of his vo- 
taries having illuminated the mountain, ascend to its summit, and there perform 
certain solemnities. Different parts of the woods are pointed out as the haunts ' 
of Krishna, Radha, and the milk 'maids ; and others as the residence of ancient 
Hindoo saints : but are now, as they probably were formerly, the dens of re- 
ligious mendicants, existing in filth and idleness. The ceremonies performed 
here by the pilgrims, resemble those practised at the other sacred resorts, and 
consist of bathing, walking round sacred buildings and spots, uttering prayers, 
charms, and invocations, and feasting religious ascetics and Brahmins. In A.D. 
1812, at the recommendation of the magistrate, and for the promotion of an 
improved system of police, gates were erected at the different entrances, and 
at the heads of the streets and alleys. The most respectable inhabitants and 
landed proprietors cheerfully acquiesced in the arrangements ; but considerable 
opposition was experienced on the part of the Chobees, and other sacred per- 
sons, who compose a large proportion of the population. — C Ward, Turner, ^c.) 

Baau. — ^T his small town stands in lat. 27° 5' N. long. 77° 50' £. six miles 
south firom the city of Agra, Uxe road to which is through a fertile country, in- 
terspersed with clumps of mangoe trees. 

Betaisor . — K town in the Agra province, 35 miles S. £. from Agra. Lat. 
26° 67' N. long. 78° 24' E. 

Doab (Two Waters), — ^This name should properly include all the territory 
between the Ganges and the Jumna ; but is usually restricted to the southern 
portion, for the most part comprehended in the Agra province, and during the 
Mogul goveriunent, subdivided into the districts of Furruckabad, Kanoje, Etaweh, 
Ko^, Currah, and Allahabad. There are several Doabs in Hindustan, the name 
■ desigBating any tract of country included between two rivers. 

Tte auriace of the Doab presents to the eye an extended level, with a fertile 
•oil^ and an abundance of tamarind and large mangoe trees, which give the 
coiuttry the appearaw ftg a forest. The millet raised, although a small eared 
irai% flmnshea a great quaatity,^of ^w» .ten^^^^^ long, whidi is of great use 
' iroE.'’' 1. , .in ' . 



370 THE PROVINCE [district of 

« 

as provender for cattle ; which are, however, much inferior in weight and nlze 
to those of the more southerly provinces Besides millet, sugar cane and barley 
are cultivated ; and in the neighbourhood of Kanoje, considerable quantities of 
tobacco, the only plant introduced by Europeans that is in general request all 
over Hindostan. But the staple commodity of the northern part of the Doab, 
is cotton ; and as on a due supply of this article, the most valuable fabrics of 
the lower provinces in a great measure depend, it becomes an object of import* 
ance to ascertain the mode in which the supply can be most regulariy obtained. 
A coarse cotton cloth, dyed red with cheap materials, is manufactured in the 
central parts of this province, and also another species named gezis and ge- 
zinas. The soil of the Doab is so naturally fitted for the production of indigo, 
that the plant is there found in a wild state, of a superior quality to that raised 
by cultivation. In 1802 and 3, immediately prior to the acquisition of this 
territory, the exports from it to the countries then subject to the Maharattas 
were rice, spices of every kind, betel nut, cocoa nuts, chowries, shields from 
Silhet, tobacco, opium, copper, lead, pewter, tin, broad cloth, silks of all kinds* 
both China and Bengal, elephants, a small quantity of silver, and a considerable 
number of gold mohurs. 

Prior to the British conquests in Upper Hindoston, the merchants trom the 
westward conveyed their goods by land-carriage to Futtehghur, and occa- 
sionally to Caunpoor, where they were embarked and carried down the Ganges 
to Allahabad. Traders were then induced to follow this circuitous route, and 
to submit to the inconvenience of land-carriage, as well as to the vexatious 
duties levied during their progress across the Doab, from the apprehension of 
the depredations to which the boats would be exposed from the numerous bands 
of robbers, which then infested the shores of the Jumna. 

While this tract of country remained subject to the Nabobs of Oude, salt was 
made in almost every village from Allahabad to Hurdwar, by professed manufac- 
turers, who disposed of it in small quantities to the inhabitants. They rarely 
kept any quantity in store, but sold it as it was manufactured to the dealen$ in 
the article. When the salt monopoly was established as a source of revmiue, 
10,000 maunds of this country salt ‘were then supposed to be deposited in 
various parts of the Doab and of Rohilcund. Salt of a similar quality was also 
made on the opposite bank of the Jumna; the total quantity then manu&ctured 
in the ceded provinces being estimated at only 40,000 maunds. This speoksi of 
salt was solely used by the lower classes, and given to catde ; little or none was 
exported, as it was also made in the Oude reserved territories, nor WRS any INril 
salt procured. Six different kinds of salt wei» then impoitnd iolo/ fdin 



AOftA.] 


OF AGRA. 


371 


proTtncdfl and into the reserved dominions of Oude ; 
was estimated in the following proportions, viz. — 

Saumur (or Sambher) 

Salumbah . 

Balumbah . . 

Boraree 

Mateila 

Lahoree 


the quantity of each kind 

100.000 maunds. 

200.000 

300.000 

100.000 
25,000 

5,000 


730,000 

Of this amount 400,000 maunds were imported into Rohilcund, and 300,000 
to the Doab, and of the first mentioned quantity 180,000 maunds were re- 
exported to the Nabob’s reserved dominions. Of the salt imported into the 
Doab, it may be estimated there were imported through that portion of the 
provinces of Delhi and Agra which then formed the 

Jaghire of General Perron 240,000 maimds. 

Saumur salt, imported principally by the route of Kotah 

and Gualior, to Etaweh and Rusoolpoor .... 45,000 

Ditto, imported into the Allahabad from Bundelcund . 15,000 

Total 300,000 

After deducting the quantity exported to the Oude dominions, 120,000 maunds 
would remain for the consumption of that portion of the Doab ceded to the 
CtMcpany, exclusive of the country salt above mentioned. 

The Saumur salt was extracted from the water of the lake of Sambher in 
Ajmeer or Rajpootana. 

The Salumbah was made at Noh in the Delhi province, then under the 
controttl of General Perron. 

The Balumbah salt was manufactured in the neighbourhood of Combere, within 
the territories of the Bhurtpoor Raja. 

The Boraree was mostly manufactured in the neighbourhood of Delhi ; the 
Mateila at Turrah ; and the Lahoree in the province of that name. 

Tlmse various kinds of salt were generally conveyed on bullocks, but occa- 
casionally on camels, mules, and asses, to Hatras and Bhurtpoor, by different 
routes. Before the government monopoly of this article was established in the 
eeded districts, Sambher salt sold at from three to three and three quarters 
wpees p« numnd, but immediately on this event rose to six and seven rupees. 

Xhiiin^ the concluding years of the Nabob of Oude's government, the Doab was 
for ioiBie tiine pnder the management of Alinas AU Khan, and was then tolerably 

3b2 



THE PROVINCE 


573 


[distkict dr 


well cultivated ; but the whole fhce of the country in the Low^ Doab, and the 
numerous to^s in ruins, attest the miserable misgovemment it was usually 
liable to. Remains of its former population and agriculture are seen everywhere 
among the extensive wastes and jungles, which now occupy so large a proportion 
of the surface. During the months of April and May, before the commencement 
of the rains, the atmosphere of the Doab is excessively sultry, and even in the 
winter season it is only the morning that is cool. In some respects the geogra> 
phical positions of the British judicial subdivisions in the Doab are much superior 
to those of the Rohilcund magistracies, as they reciprocally bound each other, 
and on the west and es^t, the Ganges and Jumna separate them from the tern> 
tories of the adjacent independent powers. In addition to these advantages it is 
to be observed, that the extensive commercial intercourse, both foreign and 
domestic, operates, powerfully in promoting the efficiency of the police, as it 
confers a certain degree of influence on the commercial classes, who are, of all 
others, the most interested in the maintenance of public order, and consequently 
in supporting the authority of the state. The industry of these classes, while it 
has the effect of contributing to the general prosperity, and ameliorating the 
condition of the people, renders them more disposed to subordination and respect 
for the laws, than a more idle and rapacious race of indigent cultivators and 
landholders. The crime of dacoity or gapg robbery most frequently occurs in 
this region during the first six months of the year, when the Ganges and the 
Jumna are fordable ; during the last six months it becomes less frequent. Indeed 
considering the almost total anarchy that prevailed in these districts before they 
came under the British domination, and that the Jauts, Goojurs, Rajpoots, 
Aheers, Lodhas, Patans, Mewaties, Meenas, Buddicks, Thugs, Cozauks, Chum- 
mas, and Kbaukrobes (who still form the great bulk of the population) had bemi 
from time immemorial addicted to open and secret plunder, it is not to be won- 
dered that criminal offences are not wholly eradicated. In 1811, the judge ci 
circuit reported tiiat there was reason to believe, there were not any professed 
gang robbers permanently resident in the southern portion of the Doab; and la 
the first six months of 1816, not an instance of dacoity had occurred in tiie districts 
of Caunpoor, Furruckabad, Etaweh, Agra, Alighur, and North Saiuuruiq^oor, 
and only one instance in Merut, while io^oradabad tm instaacea ec^iiixed, tad 
in Bureily nine. 

By the treaty of peace concluded with Dowlet Row Sindia on the ftllth 
December, 1803, he ceded to the British all his forts, territories, pui ri||^tl hi 
the Doab, between the Ganges and Jumna, and all territmries lying to the luxlk 
of tlm Rajas of Jymiagur and Joudpoor, and the Rana Golmd* Tim itmtlitn 
dtviswa of the Doab was ceded during the admutistratiim of the Hanpdl 



OF AG1U. 


KTAVIB.] 


373 


ledey in 1801, by the late Nabob of Oude, Saadet AU. It did not constitate 
any part tiie-or^nal possessions of his femily, having been added along with 
Rohilcand to the Oude dominions by the victories obtained by the British 
armies. — (TtnribnA, Sir Henry Wellesley, Sicinton, Guthrie, Blunt, Ker, Hau> 
kins, Sgc. Sjc.) 


THE DISTRICT OF ETAWEH. 

This district consists of territory in the Doab ceded to the British in 1801 by 
riie Nabob of Oude, and situated principally between the 26th and 27th degrees 
of north latitude. To the north it is bounded by the Furruckabad and Alighui 
districts ; on the south by that of Caunpoor ; to the east are the Vizier’s reserved 
territories, and on the west Agra and the Maharatta dominions south of the Chum> 
bul : being itself a large component part of what is properly termed the Doab, 
a large proportion of what is stated above under that head with respect to soil, 
productions, climate, and commerce, applies particularly to this judicial sub- 
division, and need not be here repeated. The principal towns are Minpooree, 
the modem capital ; Etaweh, the ancient one ; Kanoje, Belah, Sindouse, and 
Shekoabad. The high roads to most of the largest cities in the Doab, pass 
through this district, which is consequently greatly frequented by merchants 
and travellers. On its cession by the Nabob of Oude, a civil establishment was 
appointed for the administration of justice and collection of the revenue, subor- 
dinate to the Bareily court of circuit; but being comparatively a recent acqui- 
sition, we have no detailed reports of its statistical condition. The assessment 
ijS the land revenue, not having been wholly completed in 1809, a considerable 
difference will be observed between the first and last years of the following 
statement: 

Settlemmit for the fusly or financial year 1216 (1809-10) . 2,857,410 


Ditto, 1217 2,993,373 

Ditto, 1218 3,010,546 

Ditto, 1219 . • 3,004,692 

Ditto, 1220 3,062,068 


Although, like the remainder of this portion of the Doab, Etaweh be tolerably 
exompt firom the firequent perpetration of gang robberies, yet, until very recently, 
ccBtiiii portions of it could scarcely be described as acknowledging subordination 
to British laws and regulations, or to the decrees of the magistrate. In 1813, 
not only the pergunnah of Sindouse, but many others situated on the west side of 
the liter Jumna, on account of their dhmrdcrly condition, required the especial 
attention of govemmenf, and even the interference of a military force. Owing 
te the imtaie of this tract of country, it is in the power of 20 or 30 men with 



THE PROVINCE 


374 


rmsTRicT or 


matchlocks to stop the navigation of the Jumna with impunity, and fomerly, 
when pursued, they concealed themselves in the ravines with which the country 
is intersected. These predatory parties greatly injured the annual fair held at 
Buttersur, which, if properly protected, might have been rendered an extensive 
mart of all kinds of merchandize, as well as for horses and cattle. No instance 
of gang robbery occurred in Etaweh during the year 1811, but the bodies of 
eleven persons supposed to have been assassinated by Thugs were found in dif- 
ferent parts of the district. In 1814, no less than 1,080 persons were convicted, 
and punished by the magistrate ; while within the same space of time the Merut 
district had only 124. 

Agra and this portion of the Doab can only be secured from the depredations 
of foreign gangs by patroles stationed on the banks of the Chumbul, to check 
the lawless tribes on the opposite shore ; but before this expense be incurred, 
it is desirable, that the districts in this quarter of Hindostan be surveyed and new 
limited. The jail of Etaweh is reckoned the best situated, most commodious, 
and best executed jail in the north western provinces, and throughout the year 
1813-14 contained on an average 640 prisoners. — (Guthrie, Sir E, Cokhrooke, 
Ker, Blunt, ^c.) 

Rdoroo. — A town in tlie province of Agra, 28 miles W. from Etaweh. Lat. 
26“ 16' N. long. 79“ 20' E. 

Belau. — k town in the Agra province 21 miles S. S. W. from Kanoje. Lat. 
26“ 49' N. long. 79° 33' E. 

Resoulabad (Rasulabad, the Abode of the Prophet). — ^A town in the province 
of Agra, 30 miles S. S. W. from Kanoje. Lat. 26“ 4o' N. long. 79“ 40' E. 

Arail. — ^A town in the Agra province, 11 miles S. by £. from Kanoje. Lat. 
26“ 66' N. long. 79“ 56' E. 

Kaxoje (Canyambja). — ^A town of great antiquity and celebrity, situated to 
the west of the Ganges, about 65 miles W. N. W. from Lucknow. Lat 27® 4' N. 
long. 79® 47' E. In former times a district was attached to this city, which is 
described by Abul Fazel in 1582, as follows ; “ Circar Kanoje, containing ^ 
mahals ; measurement 2,776,673 begahs ; revenue 62,684,607 dams. This circar 
furnishes 3,765 cavalry, and 188,350 infantry.” 

The river Ganges is now about two milfos distant from the town, hut a canal 
has been cut, which makes a bend toward the place, and brings the sacitd 
stream close to the citadel. The soil of the vicinity is of a sandy nature* bat 
tolerably well cultivated, with abundance of mangoe clumps, and little juns^. 
When tile rains have been d^cient the crops fail, except where the hitsbusdiaeii 
water the fields from wells with much manual labour. ICanoje consists at preset 

but tme street ; but fiw an extent of ax miles, the mixture of small piisei^ 
brutii, and occasional yestig^ of a building, point out the site of the ancient 



ETAVKB.] ‘OF AUUA. 375 

capital of Hindostan. Here are the tombs of two Mahommedan saints, who 
lie in state under two mausoleums on an elevation covered with trees. From the 
terrace which surrounds them, there is a pleasant view of the plain, covered with 
ruined temples and tombs, and everywhere little images are seen scattered 
under the trees broken to pieces. No buildings of any importance now remain, 
and the brick walls, which do not appear of any great antiquity, are going rapidly 
to decay. Ancient coins of an irregular shape are frequently found among the 
ruins, inscribed with Sanscrit characters, and having in some instances the figure 
of a Hindoo deity pn one side. 

Kanoje, in the remote eras of Hindoo history, was a place of great renown, 
and the capital of a powerful empire which existed at the period of the Mahom> 
medan invasion. The name Kanyacubja (Kanoje) is derived from the Sanscrit, 
signifying kanya a damsel, and cubja a spinal curve ; and refers to a well known 
story narrated in the Hindoo mythological poems. The ancient language of 
Kanoje appears to form the ground work of the modem Hindostany, known also 
by the name of Hindi and Hindivi. Rajas of Kanoje are mentioned by Ferishta 
so early as 1008, and it was conquered, although not permanently retained, by 
Mahmood of Ghizni, in A. D. 1018. It is now fallen from its high estate, and 
at present the ruins of this once magnificent town, the quantity of jungle by 
which it is surrounded, and the deep ravines intersecting the country, are only 
noted as facilitating the commission of crimes, and afterwards furnishing a place 
of refuge to the perpetrators. Travelling distance from Agra 217 miles ; from 
Lucknow 75; from Delhi 214 ; and from Calcutta 719 miles. — (Cokbrookty Lord 
Vdentia, Bamaytma, Blunt, «§c. Sgc.) 

Mendygiiaut ( Mhendi-ghat ). — ^This town is situated on the west side of the 
Ckinges, about 5 miles south from Kanoje. Lat. 27® 2' N. long. 79® 57' E. 

Mikpooree. — A walled town of considerably size, the modem capital of the 
Etaweh district, situated about 62 miles east from the city of Agra. Lat. 27® 14' 
N. long. 78® 54' E. It stands on the banks of the Issa, in a fertile and produc- 
tive country, and has a considerable population. 

Firozabad (the victorious residence). — A town in the Agra province 24 miles 
E. from the city of Agra. Lat. 27® 9' N. long. 78® 16' E. 

Moorleydurserai ( Murali Dhara Serai). — ^A town in the province of Agra, 
43 mUes E, by S. from the city of Agra. Lat. 27® 2' N . long. 78® 34' E. 

Girout.— -A town in the Agra province, 49 miles £. from the city of Agra. 
Lat 27® it N. long. 78® 40' E. 

SasKOABAD (Sbacohabad, the abode of magn^pence).—T^ town takes its 
fiKBOR Data Shdko, tlie eldest Rnd ii^ m^rtenate kmi of tlw Emperor 
who, in the contest for empire with Auimigzebe, was defeated, 



376 THE PROVINCE. [diiteict ot 

» 

hunted dovm like a wild beast, and at last murdered, lat. 27” 6' N. long. 78” 
27' E. 37 miles E. from Agra. 

SuMAUN. — town in the province of Agra, 24 miles N. from Etaweh. Lat. 
27” 7' N. long. 78” 59' E. 

Etaweh; — ^This town gives its name to the district, but has long ceased to be 
the capital. It stands on the east bank of the Jumna, many parts of which during 
the dry season are almost 60 feet above the water. The town is built on the 
heights, and as it approaches the river is divided into a number of separate hills 
by deep ravines. The Jumna during the height of the rains is here a large riveri 
the islands and sand banks being then submerged. Lat. 26” 47' N. long. 78” 63' E. 
70 miles S, E. from Agra. 

SiNDOusE. — ^A fort and pergunnah in the province of Agra, district of Etaweh, 
bounded on the north by the Jumna river, and inhabited by a singularly turbulent 
race of people. The pergunnah of Sindouse is so much intersected by ravines 
as wholly to preclude cavalry from acting with effect, and to render it a danger- 
ous and difficult service even for infantry, which can only act in small parties, 
liable to be cut off by the superior knowledge of the country possessed by their 
opponents. The zemindary being almost wholly surrounded by the Maharatta 
territories south of the Chumbul, offenders have a facility of escape not common 
in other districts. 


THE DISTRICT OF FURRUCKABAD. 

This district is comprehended in the Doab of the Ganges and Jumna and pro- 
vince of Agra, and is situated between the 27th and 28th degrees of north 
latitude. To Uie north it is bounded by Bareily. and Alighur ; to the soutili by 
Etaweh and Caunpoor ; on the east it has Bareily ; and on the west Alighur. 
This district compared with the adjacent ones is of smtdl extent, and from its 
locsJity exempt from many disadvantages to which they are liable. Its jurisdic- 
tion comprises only 13 police stations, and being almost surrounded by the 
judicial subdivisions of Caunpoor, Etaweh, Alighur, and Bareily, it cannot be 
molested by foreign bmiditti, unless they first penetrate through some of these 
magistracies, and it is thus preserved fiom a contingency, which it is difficult to 
guard against in the neighbouring districts. The whole jurisdicticai of Fur- 
ruckabad is included within the Doab, except the police station of Kakutnow^ 
which is on the east side of the Ganges and adjoins the Oude territories. 

Under the Nabob of Oude's government the land revenue of Fumdriibadi had 
bem carried so high, that no increase could be expected beyond tlie aviii^ 
juminaxff the kst yeat that foircnmnieat, mSi rim tvro fettieau^ dboa the 
session yrecp cMeAy dkeeted to the eorreetioli of fridch «a^ 



VUftRUCKABAD.] OF AQRA. 377 

ri«ice and attentive local search might discover, in the apportionment of the 
assessmmit on particular estates. 

|n the financial year 1220 (A. D. 1813>14) a five-years* settlement of the land 
revenue was made in the following proportions, via. 

1220, jumma 1,026,636 

1221, ditto 1,048,640 

1222, ditto 1,061,914 

1223, ditto 1,062,693 

1224, ditto 1,063,075 

When the above settlement took place, the number of estates in the hands of 
farmers bore a much smaller proportion to those in the possession of proprietors, 
than was usual in the western provinces generally. Of 1440 estates which the 
district comprehended, only 267 were farmed, and in several of the latter cases 
no proprietor could be discovered, or was forthcoming. The total quantity of 
land, according to the revenue accounts, was then 1,896,861 begahs in cultiva- 
tion, 1,136,616 waste, and 446,609 fit for cultivation; the number of villages 
was 2880. Under these circumstances, the Furruckabad district appeared to be 
in a sufiUcient state of advancement to warrant the confirmation of the existing 
asisessment in perpetuity, which the commissioners of the upper provinces 
accordingl;y recommended ; but the vice president in council thought that more 
precise information was still required, to enable the government to form a mature 
judgment on so important a subject. By precise information was principally 
meant die proportion which the cultivated part of different estates bore to the 
uncultivated: exclusive of which, however, various other points appeared to 
require elucidation^ such as che gross produce which the cultivator should pay, 
whether in money or kind, to the zemindars ; a clear definition of the sources 
fh>m which the latter are entitled to draw a rent firom the peasantry; also an 
accurate and well ascertained boundary of the different zemindaries ; and finally, 
to ascertain the general interests of the government and the community, in the 
several gradations from the Sudder Malgoozar, to the actual cultivator of the soil. 
Arrai^menta for ascertaining these particulars being then in progress, it was 
demned expedient to postpone the promulgation of a measure in its nature 
irrevocable, and involving so materially, not only the financial interests of the 
government, but the welfere and prosperity of those living under its protection. 

Be^ie the acquisition of the Doab by the British, the small principality of 
Furmckabad was surrounded by the dominions of the Nabob of Oude, to whom 
the Petas chief of Furruckabad was tributary. In 1801, by an arrangement 
made with the former, the tribute payable by the latter was transferled to the 
Qmpmji and in 1302, the civil and military government of the country was 



THE PROVINCE 


378 


[district of 


assumed, making an allowance to tlie Nabob of Furmckabad of 180,000 rupees 
per annum. Prior to this period the state of the country was most wretched. 
For many years preceding that event, there had not existed even nominally any 
court for the cognizance of criminal acts, or the redress of civil wrongs ; and 
the Patans of Furmckabad, always noted for their ferocity, were habituated 
with impunity to the commission of the greatest atrocities. Muruers were so 
frequent that the inhabitants did not dare to venture out after sunset ; and the 
workmen then employed, at the British military cantonirents, always retired to 
their houses during day-light. Forcible burglaries took place in the middle of 
the town, andT murdets were often perpetrated in the streets, every man trusting 
to his own individual means of revenge and defence. Since that peiiod the 
bands of robbers have been extirpated, and owing to the increased security of 
property, the value of lands and houses has greatly risen. In 1812, the police 
was so efficient that there were not any erangs of dacoits known to be resident 
within the limits of Furmckabad, such robberies as happened, having been 
ascertained to have been committed by banditti who came from the opposite 
side of the Jumna. It would be easy to prove that the great mass of the 
inhabitants of every pact of India have reason to rejoice at coming under the 
British controul„ but the bles’^mgs to this small district in particular have been 
incalculable. The pnncipal towns are Furmckabad, Futtehghur, Alygunge, 
and Kadirgunge .' — ( Public MS. Documents, Guthrie, Lord Valentia, Sgc. S^c. Sgc.) 

. Furruckabad ( Farakhabad, a happy abode).~1\uc capital of the Furmckabad 
district,, and one of the principal dties of Upper Hindostan. It stands at a 
short distance from the west shore of the Ganges, in kt. 27“ 24' N. 79“ 27' £. 
and is only 4 miles distant from the Nabob of Oude’s reserved territories. The 
town is surrounded by a wall, which has been kept in tolerable order by the 
magistrates. Some of the streets are wide, and many of the houses and open 
spots are shaded with trees. By the police arrangements the city is divided 
into 7 wards, which are again partitioned into 194 mohullahs, many of which are 
narrow; the buildings are lofty, add constmcted of brick. They likewise appear 
at some period to have had gates, the gateways being still in existence, stan^g 
entire. There are also sundry courts ivith only one entrance, besides narrow 
lanes and passages, which if furnished with gates, and guarded by private 
watchmen,, might be made perfectly secure against robbers. Many years have 
not ekpsed, since ev«[y man posMssed of property was under the necessity of 
relying for its protection solely on lus own exertions ; the number of private 
watchmen therefore then entertained at Furmckabad must have been vary great* 
From an actual survey executed by the magistrate in 1811, it was aic«|rtieMd 
thM the town of Forruckibad contained 14,999 honses, of ^^dch numbef 19,^8 



OF AGRA. 


rtrilRVCKABAD.] 


379 


were ponstantly occupied, the remaining 1651 being shops occupied only during 
the day-time. Allowing 6 to a house, the total population would amount to 
66,740, which must be considerably increased by the temporary residence of 
travelers and foreign merchants, Furruckabad being cuusidered the chief com- 
mercial emporium of the conquered and ceded temtories, and the common 
resort of needy and dissolute characters from all parts or flindostan, not to men- 
tion the vicinity of the British cantonments at Futtehghur. The amount paid 
into the Furruckabad treasury on account of duties received at the custom- 
house, in 1812, was 252,183; and in 1813, rupees 194,000. On the conclusive 
cession of the district by the Nabob of Oude in 1802, a civil establishment for 
the administration of justice and collection of the revenue was fixed here, sub- 
ordinate to the Bareily court of appeal and circuit. One of the most brilliant 
achievements of the war of 1805, was the surprisal at this place, by Lord Lake, 
of Holcar’s army, which thinned the numbers, and entirely broke the spirit of 
his cavalry. Travelling distance from Lucknow, Hi miles ; from Benares, 
from Calcutta, by Bii^boom, 755 miles. — (Guthrie, Lord Vakntia, Rennell, Sgc.) 

Futtehohxjb. — ^This place is so close to Furruckabad, as in a manner to 
form but one town, being only distinguished as the head quarters of a brigade 
of troops, which are usually stationed in this part of Upper Hindustan. It stands 
on the west bank of the Ganges, in lat. 27° 2T N. long. 79° 30' £. and about 90 
miles N. W. from Lucknow. 

Kaixirounge (Cadarganj ). — A town in the province of Agra, 42 miles N. W. 
from Furruckabad. Lat. 27° 49' N. long. 78° 56' E. 

Khasounoe. — A town in the Agra province, 60 miles N. E. from the city of 
Agra. Lat. 27° 50' N. long. 78° 32' E. 

Nubeeounoe. — h. town in the province of Agra, 18 miles S. W. from Fur- 
rhckabad. Lat. 27° 14' N. long. 79° 15' E. 

Acbebboor.— -A town in the Agra province, 25 miles W. S. W. from Caun- 
poor. Lat. 26° 23' N. long. 79° 52' E. 

Kaipbe (Calp),—k large and populous town in the province of Agra, 
formeriy the capital of a small state, but now under the British government, 
aitiiated on the S. W. bank of the Jumna, about 40 miles S. W. from Caunpoor. 
Lat. 26° l(f N. long. 79° 41' E. In 1582, a ^strict viras attached to this place, 
which is described by Abul Fazel as follows ; " Circar Calpee, containing 16 
mahalaj measurement 300,029 begahs ; revenue 49,456,730 dams ; seyurghal 
1,078,292 dams. This circar furnishes 1540 cavalry, 30 elephants, and 34,000 
Infruatry.” 

lha modem town of Kalpee is a place of considerable trade, and the ehtrepot 
transportation of cotton from the south western ptovinoes into the Britirii 

8c 2 



380 THE PROVINCE [kaipbe. 

territories. In former times it stood on the plain at some distance from the 
river, but in consequence of the frequent incursions of the Maharattas, and other 
plunderers, the inhabitants removed to the present more secure situation on 
the banks of the river, amongst extensive ravines. There is here a small fort, 
which completely commands the navigation of the river, and is built on a high 
bank • but although the site be naturally strong, the artificial defences arc so ill 
arranged, that an enemy can approach undiscovered to within a few yards of 
the eastern face, where the wall is only 14 feet high, supported behind by 
a thick parapet of earth, so that the besiegers are secure from the fire of the 
garrison, unless the latter put themselves on an equality by standing on the 
parapet. 

The Mahommedans penetrated into this quarter about A. D. 1203, and iu this 
neighbourhood was fought, in 1765, the first action that took place between the 
British (then commanded by General Camac) and the Maharattas. The latter 
came to the assistance of Shuja ud Dowlah, but after a weak resistance were 
totally routed, and compelled to recross the J umna with the utmost precipitation. 
In 1804, among the dependants of the Peshwa's government was Nana Govind 
Row, of Kalpee, whose valuable district of Mahoba lies in the centre of Bundel* 
cund, and had not been conquered by Ali Bahauder. It was nevertheless seized 
by Raja Himmut Bahauder as part of his jaidad under the British, which 
induced the Kalpee chief to xmite his forces with Shumshere Bahauder in oppo- 
sition to the British. In consequence of this conduct, the fort and district of 
Kalpee, and some other lands on the northern frontier of Bundelcund, which 
had been held by this chief as a tributary of the Peshwa, were occupied by 
British troops ; but by a subsequent arrangement after Nana Govind Row had 
submitted to the views of government, all his territories, with the exception of 
Kalpee, and a few villages to the northward on the banks of the Jumna, were 
restored to him. 

By this treaty, concluded the 23d of October, 1806, Nana Govind Row 
agreed to cede in perpetuity the city and district of Kalpee, in the province of 
Agra, and several villages situated on the right bank of the Jumna, between 
Kalpee and Rajpoor. As an equivalent, the British government granted to the- 
Nana certain villages, with their land^ in the province of Bundelcund, in 
addition to what was left him of his old territory, the whole yielding a revenue 
of 145,000 rupees a year. The revenue of the country ceded to the British was 
76,000, and that transferred to the Nana amounted to about the same. It was 
agreed that over his whole country, he was to be considered as the independent 
and uncontrouled ruler, and exempt from every future claim ordmnand <m the 
part of the British government. As one-third of the diamond mines at Fsnnah 



JALOOAN.] OF AGRA. 381 

had from ancient times been committed by his Highness the Peshwa to the care 
of Nana Govmd Row, it was arranged that the Nana should not be molested in 
the possession of the said portion of the mines in question, and the British 
government accordingly renounced all claim thereto in his favour. In 1812, the 
Nana of Kalpee was considered, with respect to Sindia, as an independent 
prince, and although tributary to the Peshwa, the nature of the British alli- 
ance with that prince, gave it a title to guarantee the Nana’s possessions; 
but without imposing any obligation to that effect. 

Travelling distance from Lucknow 28 miles; from Agra 160; from Benares 
239; and from Calcutta 699 miles. — ( MSS. Ttvemlow, Treaties, 8^c. 8^c,) 

Jellalpoor. — A town in the provice of Agra, situated in the midst of ravines 
on the south side of the Betwa river, 19 miles south from Kalpee. Lat. 25° 54' N. 
long. 79° 45' E. The houses are chiefly of brick and adapted for defence, being 
pierced with loop holes for musquetry, from whence a heavy cross fire might be 
kept up. — (TwemUnc, S^'c.) 

Koonch. — ^This town is situated about 60 miles. E. by S, from Gualior, in 
lat. 26° 3' N. long. 79° 4' E. ; but, although subject to the British government, 
is entirely insulated from their possessions on one side, by an intervening space 
of foreign territory belonging to the Nana of Kalpee, and on the others, by lands 
belonging to Sindia, the Ditteah Raja, the Sumpter Rajas, and the Soubahdar 
of Jhansi. On this account the Koonch pergunnah is much infested by depre- 
dators from the adjacent petty states, the chiefs of which scarcely maintain 
even the semblance of a police. 

By the conditions of the treaty of peace concluded with Jeswunt Row Holcar 
in 1805- this small territory was assigned in jaghire to Bheemah Bhye, the 
daughter of that prince, to whom the surplus revenue was to be paid, but the 
administration of the government to be left with the British. In 1811, an 
attempt was made by some of the intriguers at Holcar’s court to raise money on 
its security, and also to transfer it to Ameer Khan, the celebrated freebooter, 
both of which transactions the British government refused to sanction, denying 
the rig^t of the said intriguers to sell or pledge what did not belong to them. 

( Wauch&pe, Public MS. Documents, ^c.) 

Lahab. — A town in the Agra province, 63 miles E. by S. from the city of 

Agra. Lat. 26° 12' N. long. 78° 63' E. 

JAtooAM (or JaUmn).—A large and populous town situated on a gently 
rising ground, 30 miles W. from Kalpee, in the Agra province. Lat. 26° 10' N. 
long. 70® 13' E. Before the British domination extended to this quarter, 
3alooan was a considerable mart foi inland traffic, especially of cotton, which 
was transported firom hence by land to tihe town td* Caunpoor on the Ganges, a 



382 THE PROVINCE (coti^iiAbi. 

distance of little more than 70 mile», and from thence carried to Mirzapoor by 
water. A great deal of cotton of an excellent quality is still cultivated in the 
neighbourhood, frequently intermixed with grain. The soil appears to be a 
marie mixed with clay. 

Sumpter. — The capital of a petty chief in the province of Agra, nnder 
British protection, situated 58 miles S. E. from Gualior. Lat. 26® ^ N. 
long. 78’ 50' E. 

Emroke. — A town in the Agra province, 63 miles S. E. from Gualior. 
Lat. 25® 50' N. long. 78° 66' E. 

Narwab- — A town within the Maharatta territories, in the 
province of Agra, south of the Chumbul river, situated on the east side of the 
Sinde river, 40 miles S. by W. from Gualior. Lat. 25° 40' N. long. 77° 61' E. 
When Abul Fazel wrote, Narwar had a district attached to it, described in the 
Ayeen Acberry as follows; “ Circar Narwar, containing 6 mahals; measure- 
ment 394,350 begahs ; revenue 4,233,322 dams ; seyurghal 95,994 dams. This 
circar furnishes 500 cavalry, and 20,000 infantry.” 

The face of the country in this quarter of the Agra province is hilly, and 
woody, but the soil when properly cultivated and watered is extremely pro- 
ductive. It is intersected by the Sinde, which is the chief river ; the principal 
towns are Narwar the capital, Collarass, and Shepoor. 

The town of Narwar makes some figure in history, having been conquered 
by the Mahommedans so early as A. D. 1251. It appears, however, to have 
subsequently regained its independence, as in 1509, we find it again ruled by 
an Hindoo prince, from whom it was taken by Sultan Secunder Lodi. At the 
peace concluded with the Maharatta states in 1803, the fort and district of 
Narwar were guaranteed by the British government to Raja Umbajee Row, and 
its revenues were then estimated so high as ten lacks of rupees per annum. The 
guarantee appears for some reason to have been afterwards withdrawn, as in 
1810, the place was surrendered to Dowlet Row Sindia, who had managed to 
corrupt the garrison; and in 1818, Madhoo Singh, the ex-Raja of Narwv, and 
Jeysingh of Ragooghur were both at the head sf predatory bands, which Sindia 
was utterly unable to coerce. ^ 

Mauona. — A town in the Agra province, sooth of the Chumbul, 34 miles 
S. W. from Gualior. Lat. 26® 64' N. long. 77® 27' E. 

Jhuhxx. — ^A town in the Agra province, south of the Chumbul, 76 miles 
W. by N. from Jhansi. Lat. 25® 33' N. long. 77® 24' E. 

Mohungub. — A town in the province of Agra, south of the Chumbul, 60 
miles W . S. W. from Jhansi. Lat, 25® S' N. dong. 77® 21' E. , 

Coi.i ARAss. — A town k the district of Narwar, 80 miles N, fromSerohfe. 



CVALIOB.] OF AGRA. 383 

Lat. 26** 14' N. long, 77° 26' E. This place is surrounded by an old stone wall 
of no strength, near to which is a large nullah, or water course, of hue water. 
The country to the north is jungly, t’^inly inhabited, much cut up by ravines, 
and, except in the immediate vicinity of the Sinde river, is duiing the dry season 
very ill supplied with water. — (3JSS. 8^c.) 

SiiEPOoar. — A town in the province of Agra, 35 miles S. W. from Narwar. 
Lat. 26° 26' N. long. 77° 10' E. To the south of this place the country is level 
and tolerably well cultivated, but to the north-west it is extremely rugged and 
covered with jungle. The town is nearly a collection of ruins. 

Guneishohur This place stands at the southern extremity 

of the Agra province, 75 miles N. by W. from Seronge. Lat. 25° 7' N. 
long. 77° 23' E. 

Pecuor. — ^A considerable town in the Maharatta territories, m the province 
of Agra, situated about 24 miles S. S. E. from Gualior. Lat. 25° 59' N. long. 
78° 16' E. 

Gualior (Gualiar ). — ^This strong fortress, the modem capital of Dowlet Row 
Stndia’s dominions, is situated in the province of Agra, about 70 miles direct 
distance south from the city of Agra. Lat. 26° 15' N. long. 78° 1 E. The hill 
on which it stands is in length one mile and six-tenths, but its greatest breadth 
does not exceed 300 yards. The height at the north end, where it is greatest, is 
342 feet, and the sides so steep as to be nearly perpendicular. A stone parapet 
extends all round, close to the brow of the hill, which is so precipitous, that 
it was judged perfectly secure from assault, until Major Popham took it by 
escalade m 1780. The storming party was led by Captain Bruce, brother to the 
traveller. The town, which is placed along the east side of the hill, is large, well 
inhabited, and contains many good houses of stone, which is furnished in abund- 
ance by the neighbouring hills, forming an amphitheatre round the town and 
fort, at the distance of from one to four miles. These mountains are principally 
composed of schistus, which apparently contains a large portion of iron ; their 
surface is rugged, and nearly destitute of vegetation. To the east runs the smsdl 
river Soonrica, which in the beginning of spring is almost dry. At the distance 
of 700 yards from the northern extremity, is a conical hill, having on the top a 
remarlmble building, consisting of two stom pillars joined by an arch. Within 
the summit of the fort are large natural excavations, which contain a never failing 
supply of excellent water. A considerable trade is carried on in cloth from Chan- 
din, jml in indigo. About 14 miles distant, on the road to Narwar, is an iron 
mine at the vills^ of Beereh. 

Gualior must have been at all times a military fort of great consequence, both 
frbmita central position in Hindostan, tod frie peculiarity of its formation, wWch 



384 THE PROVINCE [ouauo». 

was by the natives generally esteemed impregnable. During the time of the 
Mogul empire it was a state prison, where the obnoxious branches of the royal 
family were confined, and a large menagerie consisting of lions, tigers, and other 
wild beasts kept for their entertainment. When possessed by Madhajee Sindia, 
he appropriated it to the same use, and on account of its security made ita gnmd 
depot for ailillery, ammunition, and military stores. 

Rajas of Gualior are mentioned so early as A. D. 1008, and it was first taken 
by the Mahommedans, in 1197, after a long siege. The Hindoos appear after- 
wards to have regained possession, as it was again subdued, in 1235, by Altumsh, 
the Patan Sovereign of Delhi. In A. D. 1619, Gualior surrendered to the forces 
of Ibrahim Lodi, the Delhi Emperor, after having been 100 years occupied by 
the Hindoos ; and subsequent to this period it must have been acquired by the 
Emperor Humayoon, for in 1543 we find it was delivered up by his governor to 
Shere Khan, the Afghan. Thus it would seem, notwithstanding its reputation 
for impregnability, to have very frequently changed masters. In 1582, it was 
the capital town of a district described by Abul Fazel as follows ; “ Circar 
Gualior, containing 12 mahals; measurement 1,146,465 begahs; revenue 
29,683,749 dams. This circar furnishes 2490 cavalry, and 43,000 infantry.” 

After the dismemberment of the Mogul empire, Gualior came into the posses- 
sion of the Rana of Gohud, from whom it was taken by the Maharattas. In 
1780, it was taken by escalade by the troops under Mjajor Popham, as above 
related, but afterwards delivered up to the Rana of Gohud, who, failing in his 
engagements, was abandoned to the resentment of the Maharattas. Madhajee 
Sindia invested the fort, and after a fruitless siege of many months prevailed at 
last, in 1784, by corrupting part of the garrison. In 1803, Raja Ambajee Inglia 
engaged by treaty to deliver up the fortress of Gualior, then in his possession, 
in consideration of obtaining favourable terms pf the British government. When 
the period for its surrender arrived, the commandant, clandestinely instigated by 
Ambajee, refused to deliver it up. It was in consequence invested by a detach- 
ment under Colonel Harry White, batteries opened against the fort, and on the 
4th of February, a practical breach having been effected, the ganiscm made 
overtures to surrender, on condition of receiving a donation of 50,000 rupees. 
This proposal was rejected by Mr. Grseme Mercer, the commissioner, and by 
Colonel White ; but an arrangement having been subsequently effected, by which 
the garrison was to receive the value of certain articles of provisions in the fortress, 
the British troops were put in possession of all the gates on tibe night of the 4th, 
and on the 5th of February, 1804, the fort was evacuated. By tdie fin^ trMty 
■of 18Q5, whmi the Bmigai government abandcmed all territories to tibe smtidi ^ 
the Chumbul, Gualior came into the possesskm bTDowlet Row Sindk, whai, iff 



OF AGRA. 


OOHUD.] 


385 


to 1810, wai generally in motion with the greater part of his army, Oojein being 
merely his nominal capital. But shortly after the forced resumption of Gualior 
from the frmily of the deceased Ambajee, he pitched his camp a short distance to 
the SQUtli west of that fortress, and as his court has never been moved from the 
spot, except for occasional pilgrimages, a second city has arisen, on the site of 
his encampment, surpassing the old one in population and magnitude. Travelling 
distance from Delhi 197 miles, from Lucknow 211, from Benares 356, from 
Nagpoor 380, from Calcutta, by Birboom, 805 miles. — (Public MS. Docunmts^ 
Hunter, Maurice, Major William Hamilton, Rennell, Sgc.) 

Noorabad (the Place of Light). — A large village in the province of Agra, 
situated on the south bank of the Sank river, 13 miles N. by W. from Gualior. 
Lat. 26^ 25' N. long. IV 56' £. Adjoining to Noorabad is a large garden laid 
out by Aurengzebe wjthin which is a monument to the memory of Goona Begum, 
a princess celebrated for her personal and mental accomplishments. Many of her 
compositions in the Hindostany language are still sung and admired. The shrine 
bears this inscription in Persian, “ Alas ! alas ! Goona Begum.” The surface of 
the country in this neighbourhood is bare, being destitute of trees, and almost 
without cultivation ; near the road going south are several small forts, some of 
mud and some of stone, possessed by petty 'Chiefs, who formerly derived a pre> 
carious revenue from predatory enterprizes.-=-f Hunter, ^c.) 

Gohud. — The capital of a district in the province of Agra, 22 miles N. E. from 
Gualior. Lat. 26* 24' N. long. 78® 20' E. About the middle of last century 
Gohud was a small village, attached to the district of Gualior, and the Rana’s 
ancestors were zemindars of the village, and by caste Jauts of the Bamrowly 
tribe. Bheem Singh, the Rana, prior to the battle of Paniput, in 1761, acquired 
Gualior, but was afterwards obliged to yield it to the Maharattas. When this 
mtion lost the battle of Paniput, the Rana of Gohud attempted to shake off their 
yoke, but was subdued by Ragoonauth Row, in 1766, and oompelled to continue 
tributary. On a subsequent rupture, Gualior was taken by Madhajee Sindia, 
in 1784. 

On the 17th of January, 1804, a treaty was concluded by the British govem- 
BMUtt with the Rana of Ck>hud, Kirrut Singh Luckindra, by which he was to be 
eitahlidbed in the sdvereignty of Gohud, Gualior, and a considerable number of 
adfaqent districts, in consideration of which he was to secure and maintain a 
•ttbiddiary force of 3 battalions, and make over the city and fortress of Gualior to 
frie Britidi. From the inability of the Rana to setde the above countries and 
fr^ h|l es^^^pemmits, the whole treaty was declared null and void, and another 
aafotaatod on the 18th of December, 1805, by Gnsme Mercer, Esq. on the part 

by thecondititma of which frie Rajaagre^ to reUnquish 
8i» 



386 THE PROVINCE [suiiBvtooB. 

the countlry and fort of Gohud, and the other districts guaranteed to him by the 
former treaty, to be disposed of as might be judged expedient. 

From the consideration that the failure of the former treaty, on the part of the 
Rana, had arisen from inability and want of means, the British government deter* 
mined to make an adequate provision for him, and in consequence granted him 
the districts of Dholpoor, Baree, and Rajakera, in perpetual sovereignty No 
wigagements, however, were entered into for his support in these possessions, 
and he was consequently left entirely to his own resources ; the British govern* 
nvent, by a refinement in policy, declining all interference with him internally or 
externally, and disclaiming all responsibility for the assistance or protection of the 
territory it had bestowed on him, recommending him to adjust all his disputes in 
the manner most convenient to himself. Gualior and the Gohud districts have 
ever since been harrassed, possessed by, or tributary to, Dowlet Row Sindia. 

The territory of Gohud, although hilly, is fertile, and in 1790 was supposed to 
yield a revenue of 22 lacks per annum, out of which seven went to the expenses 
of collections. What modifications the limits of this principality subsequently 
received we are not informed; but in 1805, we find them described by Mr. Met- 
calfe, then assistant to the resident at Delhi, as extending along the Chumbul, and 
producing only 18 lacks of rupees per annum, of which nine were appropriated 
to the payment of subsidiary forces. The chief town is Gohud, but there are 
many other positions naturally strong, some of which are fortified, and capable of 
offering a considerable resistance. — fSd and 7th Regutert, Treatia, 
ealfe, ^'c.) 

Attair. — A town in the Agra province, situated to the south of the Chumbub 
45 miles S. E. from the city of Agra. Lat. 26° 44' N. long. 76* 29' E. 

Rajakera.— A town in the province of Agra, 31 miles S. E. from the city of 
Agra. Lat. 26" 47' N. long. 78° 6' E. 

Avtery ( Antari ). — ^A walled town of considerable size, within that portion of 
the Agpra province tributary to Dowlet Row Sindia, situated on the bai^ of the 
small river Dealoo, 12 mUes S. from Gualior. Lat. 26° 5' N. long. 78* 6' E. The 
neighbouring hills are of quartzoze stone. — (Hunter, i^c.) 

Bhind. — A town in the Agra provmce, south of the Chumbul, 46 miles N. S. 
fi;om Gualior. Lat 26* 27' N. long. 78* 40' E. In January, 1804, this was one 
of the towns guaranteed by treaty to the Rana of Gohud. 

Amain.— A town in the Agra province, south of ffie Chombtd, 41 miles £. 
from Gualior. Ut. 26° 20' N. long. 78* 40' E. 

Ch ATTEBOHUR.— A town to the Agra province, south of Rie Chniftbiil 20 
E. 1^ S. from Gualior. Lat. 26* 10' N. long. 78° 28' E. 

ScaaviAun.— A town within the Maharatta toiritmles, in ^ 
A|ra,66iniles8.8,W.ftomthecity <rfAgia, Lat 2 #W iT. lonR. A 



kamooi.t,3 of AORA. 387 

Muirsi.A'ru. — ^A town in the province of Agra, N. W. of the Chumbul river, 
•nd 78 miles S. W. of the city of Agra. Lat. 26® 20' N. long. 77" 7' E. In 
IS&a, when Abnl'Fazel wrote, this town was of considerable importance, and the 
eiqpitai of a district ; but it has been since much reduced, and is now within the 
territories tributary to the Maharattas. 

Bahporiau. — ^A subdivision of the Agra province, intersected by tiie river 
Chumbul, partly within the British territories and partly in those of Dowlet Row 
Sindia. 

Sni MUTTRA. — ^This is a town of considerable size, built on a naked rock of 
red stone, of which material all the houses are constructed ; but they are of a 
mean appearance, and the streets very narrow. Working-the red stone into slabs 
furnishes employment for the greater part of the inhabitants. Lat. 26" 41' N. 
long. 77" 20' E. — ( Broughton, ^c.) 

Muneah. —A town in the province of Agra, 26 miles S. from the city of Agra. 
Lat. 26" 49' N. long. 77" 47' E. 

Dholfoor (Dholapoor ). — This town stands about one mile north of the 
Chumbul river, on the banks of which is a fort of the same name, in the province 
of Agra, 34 miles S. by E. from the city of Agra. Lat. 26" 42' N. long. 77" 44' E. 
The river in February is here about three-fourths of a mile across, and must be 
forded at Kyteree, four miles higher up, as it is deep at the fort. Dholpoor is a 
town of considerable size, and the hilly country begins in its vicinity, approaching 
from the north. The pergunnahs of Dholpoor, Barree, and Rajakera, are rich and 
productive, and during the government of Ambajee are said to have yielded 5 
lacks; in 1805, while under the collector of Agra, the land revenue of these 
domsuns was 396,606 rupees. — (Metca\fe, ^x.) 

Barree (Bari ). — This is the second town of consequence in the Rana of 
Dhnlpoor's dominions, and is situated in lat. 26" 42' N., long. 77” 28' E. 42 miles 
S. S. W. from Agra. The streets are narrow, but many of the houses, wMch are 
built of red stone, *are two stories high, and have a greater appearance of comfort 
than is usual in Indian habitations. Barree has for many years been chiefly 
wdiabitfA by Patans, and contains several handsome Mahommedan tombs. Be- 
fmte the peace of 1805, the surrounding country was much exposed to depreda- 
itons, end was in consequence ill cultivated, but it has since considerably 
ia^roved.--<'J5r<>«g‘ii/<>», J 

Raeovet The Raja of Karouly’s dominions lie south west of 

Bholjpoor and Barree, south of Jyenagur, and north west of Ch>hud and tihe 
C^nUnhiii river. The town u situated on the Puidiporee, a small river with hdgh 
peatpendicular banks, which during die rainy seastm swdls to c torrent, and on 
the nther aide is almost surrounded by deep and estenaavenffinea. Tbaftctll 

a»9 



THE PROVINCE 


388 


[BHOaTMOI. 


in the centre of Uie town, and surrounded by a good stone wall with bastions. 
The Raja^is of the Rajpoot tribe of Jadoo, which fimnerly reigned at Biana. 
They have been gradually stripped of their best possessions by the MahaSrattas: 
the revenues of this -little state not exceeding one lack and a half of rupees per 
annum, Out of which the Peshwa claims a tribute of 25,000 rupees. The most 
productive part of its territory is a narrow valley, which extends 30 miles to the 
Bunnass riv^r, and is scarcely a mile in breadth. Raja ManickPal died in 1805, 
and was succeeded by a boy then 13 years of age. In December, 1817, the 
Karouly chief signed a treaty, and put himself under the protection of the 
British government, in consequence of which, and of the prior experience of his 
favourable disposition, he was exonerated from the tribute which he had been 
accustomed to pay to the Peshwa. The town of Karouly is situated about 75 
miles S. W. from the city of Agra. Lat. 26” 32' N. long. 76® 65' E. — (Brough- 
ton, Metcalfe, Sgc. 8 ^ 0 .) 

Khooshalgiiu.e (Khash-hal-ghar). — k mud fort with double walls, round 
bastions, and a ditch, in the province of Agra, north west of the Chumbul, 66 
miles S. E. from Jeypoor. Lat. 26* 32' N. long. 76° 27' E. 

Hindone. — This was formerly a large city, and still contains extensive build- 
ings, but owing to the depredations of the Maharattas, and other plunderers, is 
now but thinly inhabited. To the south there is much forest, and little cultiva- 
tion. Hindone stands in lat, 26® 47' N. long. 76° 54' E. 65 miles S. W. from 
Agra. — ( Hunter, 8 gc.) 

Bejichur. — ^This town stands on the south side of the river Kohmry, and 
within the Maharatta territories south of the Chumbul river, about 80 miles 
S. W. from the city of Agra. Lat. 26° 4' N. long. 77° 16' E. 

Bhubtpoor ( Bharatapura ). — The capital of an independent native state in 
the province of Agra, 31 miles W. by N. from the city of Agra. Lat. 27® 17' N. 
long. 77° 23' El The Bhurtpoor territory, including the small pergunnidi of 
Tanua, is superior in extent to that of Macherry Raja, extends from Oopaulghuf 
in 27* 39' N. to Biana, and forms the western boundary of the Agra dtstrid 
In 1818, the total area was rather less than 5000 square miles. Blmrtpoor« 
Deeg, Comblmre, Weyre, and Bianat* are its chief towns. Gopaulghur is u 
strong fart, and the town of Kumau is of great extent, wHh a large brick f<»t 
in the centre, in a very ruinous condition, and it is only the eastern part of 
town that is inhabited. Nuggur, Robass, Wheeguish,’ Roodawah, Nudldttreey 
Phurser, and others, are of little note. The country from Deeg to Bhurtpoor is 
so low, that during very heavy rains it may be said to be ctwaiptetely inuadide4* 
The Bhurtpoor '^ja is one of the junnoipal chieftains of the Jauts, whicli 
tribe of low Su^ ; who, presummg on their temporary importance, attmapt 

to aiw^ dm title of Khetri (themaitaiy^ ^ 



BHVfttvooB.] OF AGRA. 389 

Hie tribe of Jauts, for the first .time, attracted notice in Hindostan, about the 
year 1700, when having migrated from the banks of the Indus, in the lower part 
of the province of Mooltan, they were allowed to settle in the avocations of 
hi^nstry in several parts of the Doab of the Ganges and Jumna. Their subse- 
quent progress was uncommonly rapid, and during the civil wars, carried on by 
the successors of Aureugzebe, the Jauts found means to secure themselves a 
lai^ portion of country, in which they built forts, and accumulated great 
wealth.> The title of Raja is a Hindoo distinction, which some of them have 
assumed, but to which they have no more real right than their ancestors had to 
the contents of the imperial caravans, which they were in the habit of plunder- 
ing. During Aurengzebe’s last march towards the Deccan, Churamun, the Jaut, 
pillaged the baggage of the army, and with part of the spoil erected the fortress 
of Bhurtpoor. Sooraj Mull, one of his successors, new modelled the govern- 
ment, and was afterwards killed in battle with NudjiflF Khan, A.D. 1763. He 
was succeeded by his son, Jewar Singh, who was secretly murdered in 1768. 
At this period, the Jaut territones extended from Agra to within a few miles of 
Delhi on the north, and to near Etaweh on the south. They also possessed a 
tract* of land south of the Jumna ; and besides places of inferior strength, had 
three forts, which were then deemed impregnable. About 1780, Nudjiff Khan' 
subdued great part of the Jaut country, and left the Raja little besides Bhurt- 
poor, and a small district of about seven lacks of rupees per annum. 

On the death of Jewar Singh in 1768, his brother, Ruttun Singh, ascended 
the throne, and being also assassinated, was succeeded by his brother, Kairy 
Singh. On the death of this chief, Runjeet Singh assumed the sovereignty^ in 
the possession of which he still continues. When Madhajee Sindia first under- 
t<»>k the conquest of Upper Hindostan, he experienced essential assistance from 
Raja Runjeet Singh, who on this account was treated with great comparativo 
lenity by the Maharattas. 

In September, 1803,- a treaty of perpetual friendship was concluded by 
Geninral lake on the part of the British government, with the Bhurtpoor Raja, 
by the conditions of which the friends and enemies of the one state were to be 
considered in the same relation to die other ; and the Britieh government en- 
gaged never to interfere in the concerns of the Rdja’s country, or demand tribute 
fbm 1^ The'^Raja, oh the other hand, engaged, that if an enemy invaded the 
Ihitiah territories, he would assist them with his forces to compel his expulsion. 
lUt like manner the British government undertook to defend the Bhurtpoor prin- 
cdpjdity i^iainst all attacks from vrithouti and so sincere was the union on the 
|N^ m foitner, that districts yielding a revenue of 754,000 ntpees, were 
iBMi) otver to the latter in full sovereignty. 



390 the province Cbhubtvoo*. 

Notwithstanding so regular a tre^tjr, ratified in the most solemn manner, with 
all the customary formalities, and in the mmntenance of whidi both the Rajah 
honour and interest seemed concerned, in 1806 this pnnce most unarcountaMy 
espoused the declining cause of Jeswunt Row Holcar, recently discomfited by 
Lord Lake, and admitted him with the shattered remains of his army into ib» 
fortress of Bhurtpoor, before which Lord Lake arrived on the 3d of January, 
1805. 

Bhurtpoor is a town of great extent, and every where strongly fortified, being 
surrounded by a mud wall of great height and thickness, with a very wide and 
deep ditch. Tlie fort stands in its eastern extremity, and is of a square figure ; 
one side overlooking the country, the other three are within the town. It oc- 
cupies a situation that appears more elevated than the town ; its walls are also 
said to be higher, and its ditch of greater width and depth. The circumference 
of both town and fort is above eight miles, and their walls, in all that extent, are 
flanked with bastions at short distances, on which are mounted a very nu- 
merous artillery. The place also derives a considerable addition to its strength, 
from the quantity of water wuich its locality enables the garrison to command, 
and when filled, the ditch presents a most formidable obstacle. When Lord 
Lake's army approached Bhurtpoor, a large expanse of water on the north west 
side of the town suddenly disappeared, and it was subsequently discovered 
that the whole had been admitted into the ditch which surrounds the town 
and fort. 

Within these fortifications the whole forces of the Bhurtpoor Raja were con- 
centrated. The infantry of Jeswunt Row Holcar had taken up a position and 
entrmiched themselves under the wadis, and aU the inhabitants of the adjacent 
country, who were capable in any way of assisting in its defence, were thrown 
into the place. The assembly of such .a multitude created the most serious 
obstacle to the operations of the British army. Measures were speedily «• 
eotttedto retard its progress; and the effects of the artillery were almost im- 
mediately repaired, which probably constituted the most efficient source of Ihat 
resistance which was experienced during the siege. 

The town and fort were amply provided with all kinds of provisions and no- 
tary stores, Bhurtpoor having long been the mart of Hindostan for th«w aitif^s* 
and they had Been also accumulated by the Raja. The great extent of the j^bee 
and the smallness of the British army, confined the operations to <me pduid i 
tim besi^d had consequently an opportunity of procuring, supplies fium the 
neighbouring country, which would ^te been prediuded if the place could haee 
been completely invested. In the course of sii^ also, tiie British epgiaee r 
eIBcm, b^ever xealous in tiie performance of tiieif duty* were fiMind hi 



•HVirrooiuJ OF AGRA. 991 

•Irilitiet, knowledge, or experience, adequate to the magnitude of the exigence ; 
whidh dc^dency had doubtless considerable effect in impeding the progress of 
tile besieging army. And finally, due credit must be given to the bravery of its 
defmders, and to the military conduct of their leaders ; but there is reason to 
bdieve, that, with the exception of Holcar’s forces encamped under the walls, 
and which were attacked and totally routed with the loss of all their artillery, 
the garrison and inhabitants sustained but a trifling loss, compared with the 
enormous camag^e which destroyed the flower of the British soldiers, amounting 


to 3100 killed and wounded : viz. — 1st storm 

456 

2d ditto 

591 

3d ditto 

894 

4th ditto 

987 


2928 

Other casualties . . 172 


Total , . 3100 


Notwithstanding the obstinacy of the defence, and the slaughter of the be- 
siegers, the Raja perceiving that British perseverance must ultimately prevail, 
sent his son to Lord Lake’s camp with the keys of the fortress, and agreed to 
compel Holcar to quit Bhurtpoor. On the 17th of April, 1805, the siege being 
thus concluded, a second treaty was arranged, when the former professions of 
firiendship were renewed, but with stipulations calculated to ensure a stricter 
performance of them on the part of the Raja, who consented, that as a security, 
<me df his sons should constantly remain with the commanding ofScer of the 
British forces in Upper Hindostan, until such time as the government should 
be perfectly satisfied in regard to the Raja's fidelity ; upon the conviction of 
whudi they s^eed to restore him the fortress of Deeg. In consideration of the 
peace granted, the Raja bound himself to pay the British government 20 lacks 
of rupees, five to be paid immediately, and the remainder by instalments; and 
in cmisequence of the pacification, the country he before possessed was restored 
to him; l^t all that had been made over by the former treaty was resumed, on 
tcpoimt of his treachery during the campaign against Holkar. As by the 
aoecod article of the treaty, the British government became giarantee to the 
for the security of his country against external enemies, it was agreed, 
tw in a misunderstanding arose between him and any other chief, he 
first instance, submit the cause of dispute to the British govem- 
neHL tNrhidh would endeavour to settle it amicably { but if firom the otaitiinacy 
aCihA opposite iMtrty this was unsittainalrfe, the Raja anthorized to denumd 



THE PROVINCE 


392 


[deeo. 


aid from the British government, in the defence of whose dominions he engaged 
to assist against all invaders, and without whose concurrence to refuse the 
admisssion of any European into his service. 

Since the above era the Raja’s inclinations appear to have fluctuated con- 
siderably, "as in 1806 he appeared cordially attached to the British government, 
and really sensible of the important protection aflPorded him by the subsisting 
treaties, whereas in 1814 he had become much estranged, and refused to admit 
u native envoy sent to reside at his court, although his very existence depended 
on its forbearance. It appears to be his course of policy to thwart and irritate 
the British government to the utmost verge of its forbearance, and to concede 
immediately when he finds a crisis impending. By his alliance with the British 
he enjoys wealth, importance, and tranquillity, being protected against all 
external annoyance, exempt from exaction or tribute, and completely despotic 
within his own territories. While M. Perron governed in Upper Hindustan, he 
made the petty chiefs instantly obey his most dictatorial mandate, but they have 
been treated by the British w ith such delicacy and liberality that their dependent 
condition has wholly disappeared, and with a natural perversity of disposition 
they think it unable to enforce, what it hesitates to command. In 1805, Mr. 
Metcalfe estimated the revenues of the Bhurtpoor Raja at nine lacks of rupees 
per annum, but they are probably now much nearer double that sum, as in 1818, 
owing to the long peace his territories had enjoyed, they appeared like a garden, 
when compared with the adjacent and much ravaged province of Rajpootana. — 
(Lord Lake, Marquis Wellesley, Public MS. Documents, Lieut. White, Hunter, 
Franklin, ^'c. i\;c. ^'c.) 

Akogor. — A town in the province of Agra, 32 miles w'cst from Bhurtpoor. 
Lat. 27" 16' N. long. 76’ 52' E. 

Dekg. — A towm and fortress belonging to the Bhurtpoor Raja, in the Agra 
province, situated about 57 miles N. W. from the city of Agra. Lat. 27° 30' N. 
long. 77’ 12' E. In 1760 this place w'as possessed and strongly fortified by 
Sooraj Mull, the Raja of the Jauts, but in 1776, it was taken from that tribe by 
Nudjilf Khan, after a siege of twelve months. It again became subject to the 
Jaut Raja of Bhurtpoor. In 1805, Lord Lake attacked Holcar’s army which 
was encamped under the walls of Deeg, and defeated it with great slaughter. 
This battle proved fatal to Holcar’s regular infantry and artillery, and the action 
at Futtehghur broke the spirit of his cavalry. Deeg was subsequently surren- 
dered to the British army after a short and vigorous siege, and retained for some 
time as security for the good behaviour of the Bhurtpoor Raja, which being 
established, he was again put into possession. To preserve the town of Deeg 
from the violence of the torrents which pour from the hills during the rains, it is 



TEJARAH.] OF AGRA. 393 

necessary to keep in repair large embankments, which have been constructed to 
keep the water off the town. — ( Malcolm, Metcalfe, Franklin, fy-. ) 

Gosaulv. — A. large town watered by canals drawn from the Laswarce river. 
Lat. 27® 30' N. long. 76° 51' E. 37 miles N. \V. from Bhuftpoor. Six miles west 
of the town a new fort has been erected by the Macherry Raja. — ( Lieutenant 
White, S^c.) 

Laswarke. — A small village situated on a stream of tlie same name, 73 miles 
N. W. of Agra. Lat. 27“ 33' N. long. 76“' 48' E. On the 1st of November, 
1803, a desperate battle was fought between the British army under Lord Lake, 
and that of Dowlet Row Sindia, in which the first gained a complete \ictory 
with the loss of 824 killed and wounded. 

CoMBJiEu. — At this place is manufactured the salt distinguished in Upper 
Hindostan by the name of Balumba, where large quantities of it arc annually 
consumed. It is e.xtracted from the saline water of wells in the vicinity, and is 
usually of a small grain, and preserved in pits. The town belongs to the Bhurt- 
poor Raja, and is situated 10 miles west from his capital. Lat. 27“ 17' N. 
long. 77° 14' E. 

Biana ( Uyana). — A town in the province of Agra, situated on the Ban Gunga 
river, 50 miles W. S. W. from the city of Agra. Lat. 2G° 57' N. long. 77® 8 E. 
Biana preceded Agra as the capital of the province, it appearing from Abul Fazel 
that Sultan Seconder Lodi made Biana his metro})olis, and kept his conrt here, 
while Agra was only a dependent village. It was first coiupiered by the 
Mahommedans, A.D. 1197. The town is still considerable, and contains many 
large stone houses, and the whole ridge of the hill is covered with the remains of 
buildings, among which is a fort containing a high pillar, conspicuous at a 
great distance. In 1790, the town and district belonged to Runjeet Singh, 
the Raja of Bhurtpoor, and with him it probably still remains. — (Ahul Fazel, 
Hunter, S^c.) 

Weyre. — ^A town belonging to the Raja of Bhurtpoor, situated on the high 
road from Jeypoor to Agra, 50 miles west from the latter city. Lat. 27“ 2' N. 
long. 77® 2' E. This is a large town with a mud rampart round it, and a stone 
citadel within, on which some large guns are mounted. 

SuROUT. — A large village in the province of Agra, surrounded with a stone 
wall, which has within a square mud fort with a double wall and ditch. Lat. 
26® 61' N. long. 77® E. 

Tejarah. — ^W hen Abul Fazel wrote, this district was of considerable im- 
portance, but it has latterly been but little noticed, and has almost lost its place 
in the map. It is now included within the British line of protection, but is 
thinly inhabited, and contains no town of consequence. 

YOL. I. 3 b 



394 


THE PROVINCE 


[aLVAK OB 


ALVAR OR MACHERRY. 

This territory is situated in the north-western quarteiT of the Delhi protinoe» 
and principally between the 27th and 2bth degrees of north latitude. In the 
Mahommedan histories it is occasionally named Mewat, and the inhabitants 
Mewaties, although this appellation ought only to have been apfdied to the more 
thievish portion of them. By Abul Fazet. m 1582, it is described as foUovrs: 

“ Circar Aloor, containing 43 mahals, measurement 1,662,012 begahs; revenue 
30,832,234 dams. This circar furnishes 6j614 cavalry, and 42,020 infantry.” 
The Alvar district is a hilly and woody tract, lying on the south-west of Delhi, 
and to the north-west of Agra, confining the low country along the western side 
of the river Jumna. Although this tract is situated in the centre of Hindostan, 
and within 25 miles of Delhi, its inhabiUints have always been described at 
singularly savage and brutal, and robbers by profession, never to be subdued. 
In this last capacity, under the name of Mewaties, they were formerly taken into 
pay by the native chiefs, on account of their expertness in the arts of desolation, 
for the purpose of more effectually ravaging any country which happened to be 
the seat of war. 

In modem times a new potentate has arisen, named the Raja of Macherry, 
within whose sway Alvar and several adjacent districts, equal to about 3,000 
square miles, are now comprehended; but greatly intermingled with those 
belonging to the British government, and to the contiguous native chiefs. The 
chief towns in his dominions are Alvar, Macherry, Tejarah, Rajghur, and 
Alinuggur or Ghosawlee. Macherry gives its name to the country, and its chief 
is thence called the Macherry Raja, but Alvar is the real metropolis. Tejarah 
was formerly the capital of Mewat, and had like all old cities several pergunnahs 
annexed to it. It is now in ruins, but tfije fort, which is of some strength, is kept 
in repair to check the depredations of the Mewaties. 

Ghosawlee or Alinuggur is a large town, and its fields are irrigated by canals 
from the Laswaree river. Six miles west of the town a new fort has been 
erected by the Raja, named Govindghur. Among other places of less note, 
although of great strength, belonging to the Raja, are the forts of Ramghur, 
Lechminghur, Peepul, and Kheree; the forts, also, of Kishenghur, Berodeh, 
Melakeree, Buodsujekee, Tamah, Bansor, and Shahjehanpoor, are of consider- 
able strength. To these may be added the hill forts of Hajipoor, Hursuah, 
Nemranah, which, with the forts of Mudau, Raitee, and Bijwar, and the towns of 
Murdhewab, Acberpoor, Omraree, and the lar^ villages of Gheelot and Seraee 
form that part of the Macherry Raja’s country, named the Barrah Coterah. 

The forts of Jendowlee and Titarpoor are strong, respecting those of Per 



OF AGRA. 


VACREaRr.] 


395 


taubhur, Ajibghar, Baharghur, Hajpoor, and others which He to the west of 
Bajghur, little is known. Altogether the Macherry Raja is said to .possess 42 
forts, which number probably includes the common gurries, or native fortifica- 
tions. The town of Kunkaree, which is said to be extensive, is also among the 
hills situated to the west of Rajghur. 

The Laswaree river has its source in the Macherry country, about four miles 
west of Niranpoor, from whence it proceeds through Acberpoor ghaut by 
Mahoor and Bambolee to Laswaree. Near Malpoor an embankment has been 
constructed across the bed of the river, and the current is conducted by 
numerous water courses to the interior of the Rajas country. The former 
direction of the Laswaree stream was by Neano and Ketwaree through the 
Ploundah pass to Koh, where it was lost ; but it now seldom passes Deeg, and 
could never, except during uncommonly heavy rains, have reached Bhurtpoor. 
In November, 1806, the stream of the Laswaree was only one foot deep, and the 
Raja being desirous of monopolizing the whole, without allowing any to proceed 
to the Bhurtpoor country, a dispute ensued, which could only be settled by the 
interference of the British government. Considering how hilly a great proportion 
of the Macherry terrirories are, they are tolerably well cultivated, and their 
local situation and resources enable the Raja materially to assist or to impede 
the incursions of the Maharattas from the sc ith. 

Row Raja Pertaub Singh, the father of the Raja who reigned in 1805, was a 
subject of the Jeypoor Raja’s, and his manager at Macherry about the year 1780. 
He subsequently revolted from his master, and obtained a grant of lands in the 
Jeypoor country from Nuc^iff Khan, with the title of Row Raja. When NudjiiF 
Khan was engaged in a war with the Raja of Bhurtpoor, Pertaub S in gh 
wrested Alvar, the present capital, and other districts, from the Bhurtpoor state, 
and added them to his own. Some time afterwards he quarrelled with his 
patron Nudjiff Khan, and was deprived of all his possessions except the fortress 
of Luchmenghur, where he was bf'sieged by Nudjiff Khan, but saved by the 
approach of the rainy season ; and the latter being called elsewhere, Pertaub 
Singh remained i.i the government. Since that period he has maintained his 
authority by temporizing with the strongest party. In 1805, his revenues 
\were estimated at seven lacks of rupees, and it was then said he discouraged 
cultivation, that his country might present fewer temptations to invaders, and 
to augment its difficulties built many forts. 

In November, 1803, a treaty was concluded between General Lake on the 
part of the British government, and the Macherry Raja, by the conditions of 
which, the friends of the one party were to be considered as standing in the same 
rdation with the other. The British engaged not to interfere in the internal 

8 i2 



THE PROVINCE 


396 


[▲LVAB OB 


management of the Raja’s country, nor demand any tribute, and the Raja under* 
took to assist the British government with his whole force, when their possessions 
were attacked. By this treaty the British guarranteed the security of the Raja’s 
country against external enemies, on which account the Raja agreed, that if any 
misunderstanding should arise between him and any neighbouring chieftain, the 
cause of dispute should be submitted to the British government, which would 
endeavour to settle the matter amicably ; but if from the obstinacy of the opposite 
party amicable terms could not be obtained, the Raja was authorized to demand 
aid from the British government, the expense of which to be defrayed by the 
Raja. With these terms the Raja appears to have been very well satisfied, as 
throughout the hazardous and energetic campaign of 1804, he continued a firm 
adherent of his allies; for which in 1805, he was rewarded by a considerable 
addition of territory, mostly resumed from the Raja of Bhurtpoor on account 
of his treachery. 

The second range of mountains, commencing on the west of Padshapoor, to the 
Acberpoorghaut beyond Alvar, is inhabited by Mewaties. Tejarah is the capital 
of the Mewat country, which comprehends also the pergunnahs of Sonah, Jour, 
Tupookra, Kotelah, Hutteen, Firozepoor, Nugeenah, Poonahara, Kishenghur, 
Ismaelpoor, Bahadurpoor, Ramghur, Khoree, Paharee, Gopaulghur, Kaman, 
Alvar, Malakheere, and Gosawly, Supposing the Mewat country to contain 1 ,952 
square miles; 465 may be considered as belonging to the British* in 1807; to 
Ahmed Buksh Khan 263 ; to the Bhurtpoor Raja 304, and to the Raja of Ma- 
cherry 92 1 . On account of the turbulent disposition of its inhabitants, the influ- 
ence of any chief among them is feeble, and the authority of the Macherry Raja 
but little attended to. In 1807, the predatory incursions of the Mewaties into 
the British territories became so daring and frequent, that no person could stir 
out of the military cantonments at Rewary, without an escort ; and the high road 
from Delhi and Rewary was no longer practicable for the merchant or traveller, 
unless protected by a strong guard. A band of them (here named Cozauks) had 
the boldness to attack the town of Rewary, although within 3 miles of the mili- 
tary cantonments, where three battalions of infantry are usually stationed ; but 
the Mewaty plunderers being all horse, infantry, however active, cannot coerce 
their incursions with sufficient rapidity. ^ 

Owing to the physical nature of the Mewat country, jungly, hilly, and 
abounding with defiles and fastnesses, the extirpation of these thieves was likely 
to be a work of great difficulty, if at Ifll practicable. It became therefore ex- 
tremely desirable to endeavour to eradicate the evil by measures of a conciliatory 
nature ; for these people, although from time immemorial addicted to robbery 
and habits of plunder, are generally when trusted remarkably faithful. During 



OF AGRA. 


MACHEERT.] 


397 


the power of the Delhi throne and after its decline, the only measures adopted 
to curb the Mewaties, were the uttnost severity, harshness and cruelty. In 
order to distress them, they were prohibited from cultivating the vallies, where 
alone they could procure food, and their implements of husbandry were seized 
and destroyed. They were also, when apprehended, subjected to the most cruel 
punishments, and frequently experience i the dreadful doom of being immured 
alive between four walls, a practice which greatly prevailed during the period of 
the Gallo Maharatta power ; but with such little elFect, that while these districts 
were under the management of M. Perron, he maintained in them for five months 
of the year from 2 to 5 battalions of his troops, exclusive of sebandies, a species 
of local militia. This system of terror, as might have been expected, wholly 
failed, for, notwithstanding the impending tortures, the Mewaty outrages con- 
tinually increased, and the peaceful part of the community were kept in a state of 
unceasing alarm and anxiety. In 1807, a correspondence was opened with some 
of their chiefs by Mr. Seton, then resident at Delhi, and some measures of a 
mild and conciliatory nature adopted, which although they have not extinguished, 
have so greatly repressed their proneness to rapine, that we now, comparatively, 
hear very little of Mewaty depredations. 

In 1808, a di.spute arose between the Rajas of Bhurtpoor and Macherry, 
relative to an embankment maintained in the country of the latter, which pre- 
vented the flowing of the Laswaree river into the country of the former, and 
consequently impeded the cultivation of certain lands belonging to the Raja of 
Bhurtpoor, which depended on that source for irrigation. On this occasion the 
British government as the friend of both parties interfered, and required the 
Macherry Raja to ojwn the embankment, in conformity to his engagement con- 
cluded through the medium of Lord Lake in 1 805. 

In 1 81 1 , the Raja of Macherry was afflicted with a mental derangement, which 
after some time subsided; but was succeeded by a most unfortunate dispo- 
sition to persecute his Mahommedan subjects, manifested by the most wanton 
acts of violence and outrage. The British resident at Delhi, on hearing of these 
proceedings, adverting to the political relations subsisting between the Raja 
and the British government, thought it his duty to address several letters of 
expostulation on the subject to the Raja ; but these not having the desired effect. 
Lord Minto, then Governor General, was obliged to interfere. Confidential per- 
sons (natives) were in consequence dispatched to Alvar to ascertain the real con- 
dition of the Raja's mind, which was apprehended to be still not quite free from 
insanity, From their researches it appeared, that certain Mahommedan devoid 
had been mutilated by the Raja's order, and that several tombs and places of 
worship had been destroyed, which act this chief attempted to justify by recrimi* 



THE PROVINCE 


398 


[ALVAROS 


uating on the Mahommedans, that they had destroyed Hindoo images and 
temples. After mutilating these devotees, the Raja was seized with the desire, no 
less savage than curious, of sending their noses and ears to Ahmed Buksh Khan, 
the chief of Firozepoor, a most meritorious partisan of the British government, 
who, on receipt of the pot containing the fragments, very properly forwarded it 
to the British resident at ^elhi. Besides this exploit, having demolished a 
number of the most revered Mahommedan tombs, he loaded a multitude of asses 
and bullocks with the bones and ashes and had them transported out of his 
country, and ordered the sacred stones of the mosques near Alvar to be smeared 
with oil and sindhoor. 

The British interposition on this occasion was exerted in so judicious and 
rational a manner, that the Raja was induced to revert to the unqualified tolera* 
tion existing in his country before the perpetration of the late acts of violence. 
It was determined, however, that the Raja's general conduct should be observed, 
as it concerned the general interests of humanity, as well as the credit of the 
British government, to prevent the repetition of such barbarities, which were 
calculated to excite a spirit of sanguinary animosity between the Mahommedana 
and Hindoos, a^id create disturbances of all others the most liable to contagion, 
and in their result the most difficult to quell. The interference on this occasion 
was authorized, both by the great extent of territory bestowed on the Raja by 
the British government, and by the continuance of its powerful protection, which 
preserved his dominions from the dreadful evils which had befallen the neigh- 
bouring principalities of Jeypoor and Joudpoor. As illustrative of native politics 
it may be here mentioned, that along with the confidential agents, it was necessary 
to send an emissary well acquainted with the Raja's person, as otherwise his 
ministers, with the view of concealing his derangement, might have recourse to 
the artifice of substituting some other individual, not unlike him in stature and 
general appearance, the success of which would be favoured by the darkness of 
the apartment. 

The above acts of religious phrenzy were not the only measures which brought 
the intellectual restoration of the Raja under suspicion, for towards the end of 
die same year he had the gratuitous folly to become surety to the Patan chief, 
Mahommed Shah Khan, on the part of Khooshaly Ram (formerly prime minister 
to the Raja of Jeypoor), for the payment of the one lack and a half of rupees per 
month, on account of a body of troops to be furnished by the former to the latter, 
for the service of the Jeypoor state, until the. expelled minister (Khooshaly Ram) 
should be again plaOed at the head of affairs. This tiansaction was totally incom- 
patible with the spirit of the relations subsisting between the British government 
and the Macherry state, by the conditions of which, the Britidi govmmMHit 



OF AGRAa 


XACHEEET.] 


399 


having gaaranteed the integrity of its dominions, the latter was placed in a state 
of dependence, and virtually precluded from interfering in the concerns of other 
diiefs and states, unless widi the consent of the protecting power. For it 
appeared evident, that if the Baja were at liberty to enter into engagements with 
foreign powers, or concern Umidf in their disputes and intrigues, the British 
government might be involved in aeiioas politfoal altercations, and eventuaUy 
placed in a hostile attitude by the unconlrotded ac^ of foe Baja. Situated as 
the parties were, the duty of protection necessarily implied a right of controtil 
over all proceedings of the protected party which might have a tendency to 
compel the active exercise of that duty ; and it was wholly inconsistent with the 
existing political relations, lhat a dependent state should be at liberty to form 
engagements with other powers, and to transfer the guarantee of the protecting 
power to concerns in which it had not participated. > 

By this act of the Baja he pledged the security of the British government to 
the agreement between Khooshaly Bam and Mahommed Shah Khan, thereby 
rendering it an instrument of public evil, and of injustice to a friendly state, or 
forced it to engage in a cause of doubtful equity and unprofitable exertion, since 
in the event of the Raja’s disinclination or inability to fulfil the obligations he had 
entered into, (a circumstance not less probable than the failure of Khooshaly Bam 
in the performance of his engagement,) the Patan chief would naturally be dis- 
posed to enforce the satisfaction of his claim. In this event, the interference of the 
British government would become necessary, either to compel the payment of 
the money, or to protect the Raja against the arms of the claimant, and would thus 
be compelled, through the folly of the Raja, either to contribute to the support 
of a military Patan adventurer, aiming at the subjugation of a friendly state, or 
to employ its military power in a cause of dubious justice, and where the interests 
of the British government were in no manner concerned. 

This preposterous engagement, as might have been foreseen, was subsequently 
broken, and the agent of Mahommed Shah Khan, restdmg at Delhi, appealed 
to the resident for the recovery of the sum due to his master fiwr the time that had 
elapsed, but the application was immediately rejected, and the chief informed, 
font the original agreement was altogether incompatfole with the political rela- 
tions subsisting between the Macherry Raja and the British, government. With 
the view also of preventing in future a similar misconception of his duties, and 
to render more clear the treaty of 1803, a positive engagement was procured fhim 
the Baja in 1812, binding himself not to enter into negociations, or conclude 
arrangements of any kind, with foreign powers, without the knowledge and con- 
sent of the British government previously obtained. In times still more recent, 



400 the province [riEo*E»ooi. 

the Macherry Raja finding himself in the vicinity of the Jeypoor state, which was 
tom by civil faction and external warfare, endeavoured to avail himself of its 
misfortune]^, and to aggrandize himself at its expense. He in consequence seized 
on some of its forts and villages, but the British government interfered and 
obliged the intruder to restore what he had taken, and symptoms of hesitation 
appearing, he was fined for delaying instant obedience to the order. — (Public 
MS. Docu7nents, Lieut. White, Archibald Seton, Metcalfe, Penmll, ^c. <§r. ^c.) 

Alvar (Alor). — Although Macherry gives its name to the dominions of the 
Row Raja, this town may be considered as his real capital. It is situated at the 
foot of a very high hill, and is strongly fortified. On the summit of this hill is 
the fortress, which contains several tanks, and there is besides a small shallow 
jeel to the south of the town. The Macherry Raja generally resides here, but 
his family at Rajghur, a strong fort situated at the re-entering angle of some 
hills, on the top of which are some works for the further protection of the place. 
The town stands in lat. 27° 44' N. long. 76° 32' E. 75 miles S. S.W. from 
Delhi. — C Lieut. White, <§t . ) 

Ursana. — ^A town in the Agra province, 30 miles south from Alvar. Lat. 
27° 22' N. long. 76° 25' E. 

Berodeii.— A town in the province of Agra, 20 miles E. from Alvar. Lat. 
27° 44' N. long. 76° 50' E. 

Beerat. — A town in the province of Agra, 60 miles N. N. E. from Jeypoor. 
Lat. 27° 42' N. long. 75° 59' E. 

CoTELAH. — A town in the Agra province, 46 miles N. N. E. from Jeypoor. 
Lat. 27° 28' N. long. 76° 2' E. 

Macherrv. — T his place .stands six miles east of Rajghur, being separated 
from it by a range of hills, and was formerly of considerable extent, but at 
present there are few inhabited houses, and the rest are either ruinous or in a 
state of rapid of decay. It giver', its name to the Macherry principality, and is 
situated about 60 miles N. £. from the city of Jeypoor, in lat. 27° 31 N. long. 
76 “ 22' E. — ( Lieut. White, ^c.) 

Firozepoor (Firozpur ). — This is the capital of the country bestowed on 
Ahmed Buksh Khan, whose territories comprehend the Mewaty pergunnahs of 
Firozepoor, Nugeena, and Poonahara, with the talooks of Beechor and Sakras. 
He also holds in jaghire, at a fixed rent in perpetuity, the small pergunnah of 
Laharoo, belonging to the Macherry Raja, and in the Shekawutty country. It 
stands in lat. 27° 58' N. long. 76° S!/ £. 55 miles S. S. W. from the city of DeUu» 
and is surrounded by a stone wall. Pynungeon, a small town on ^e eastern 
side of the hUls, separating Poonaharah from Nttgeenat 'was once of oonsidaralde 



ALIGHUR.] 


OF AGRA. 


401 


note, but is now in ruins. Nugeena is a small town with a strong gurry. Poo- 
nahara is a good sized town with a gurry in its centre, and at Beechor is a strong 
fort. — (Lieut. White, SjC.) 

Narnoul. — ^An ancient district in the north west quarter of the Agra province, 
situated between the 28th and 29th degrees of north lat. and in 1.582, described 
byAbul Fazel as follows: “Circar Narnoul, containing 17 mahals; measure- 
ment 2,080,046 begahs; revenue 50,046,711 dams. This circar furnishes 7520 
cavalry, and 37,220 infantry.” This Is the frontier town of tl.H Jv^pr.oi Uaja. 
and is situated in lat. 28® 5' N. long. 75® 52' E. 80 miUs 8 VV fii.m i!i^ cn v ui 
Delhi. It is a place of considerable antiquity, but at prtsem gif.sdy redcced m 
.size, being only about one mile in length, with it MoaU Mu'l?h oi water course 
through the e<ul re. In I'-d.) g<.\( uiiuttu r<*f,e'‘'ed at' of lupiC' 

for the per;.' unnabs of KantafU, Kaut.a at d .^iirnoul, ^ ■ n ih*' 1. rr’- 

torics of tht \l,u burry K.tia .iml liir .'slu k.iVM/iy couulry. — ( /.uvd. White. 
JMi'tailfc, \c. ] 

Sj. \ (. MiN.\. — This is a handsome town, built of stone, situated on the top of 
a hill of purplish rock about 600 feet high, 100 miles S. W. from Delhi. LaJ. 
28° 6' N. long. 75® 30' E. 

Caxoox. This town is situated about 80 miles W. S. W. from the city of 
Delhi, in lat. 28° 18' N. long. 75® 51' E. and during the war of 1804, was occu- 
pied by a detachment from the British army. On approaching Canoon by the 
Delhi road the appearance of the desert commences. Three miles to the east of 
it are sand hills, which at first are covered with bushes, but afterwards degene- 
rate to naked piles of loose sand, rising one above the other like the waves of the 
sea, and marked on the surface by the wind like drifted snow. To the west the 
country becomes more and more arid, and ten miles from Canoon in that direc- 
tion, is the limit of the British dependencies in that quarter, after which the 
Rajpoot district of Shekawutty commences. — ( Elphinstone, ^c.) 

ALIGHUR DISTRICT. 

This district is situated in the Doab of the Ganges and Jumna, about the 28 th 
degree of north latitude. To the north it has the district of Merut or South 
Saharunpoor ; to the south those of Furruckabad and Agra ; on the east it has 
Furruckabad and Bareily ; and on the west Agra and the Delhi reserved terri- 
tories. The two boundary streams are the Ganges and Jumna, and in the interior 
we several water courses or rivulets, which during the rains have a current of 
water, hut for the rest of the year are dry, or have their moisture abstracted by 
the peasantry for the purposes of irrigation. The principal towns are Alighur, 
Cowl, H&tras, Moorsaun, and Anopsheher. 

VOL. I. 3 F 



402 THE PROVINCE [district oi 

Prior to 1817 this district suffered greatly from the contiguity of independent 
States, inhabited by predatory and ungovernable tribes, who not only infested the 
country by their inroads, but afforded an asylum to the native criminals of the 
British territories. At that period also there were within the district the indepen- 
dent states of Hatras, Moorsaun, and Awah, which had been long distinguished as 
the' resort of Thugs, Buddicks, and other depredators, whose atrocities attained 
such a pitch, that in 1817 it required a regular army to quell them, by the siege 
and capture of Hatras, and the surrender of Moorsaun without resistance. The 
Alighur district is of great extent, and j’'''ludes 38 police stations, some of which 
are 50 miles from the residence of the magistrate. The soil of Alighur < is 
fertile, and very productive under proper cultivation ; the inhabitants are also\of 
a description considerably superior to the Bengalese and other more easte^ 
tribes, but proportionately turbulent and difficult to govern. In 1813-14, thip 
jumma, or assessment to the land revenue, amounted to 3,152,309 rupees. 
After the capture of Hatras and Moorsaun, 17 other lesser forts were destroyed 
and razed to the ground. The average number of prisoners confined in jail 
throughout the year 1813-14 was 438. — (Blunt, 8^c. d^’c. S^'c.) 

KhXGiiv,vi (Alighar). — This town gives its name to the modern district, and 
stands in lat. 27“ 56' N. long. 77® 59' E. 53 miles N. from the city of Agra. The 
fortress of Alighur, one of the strongest in Hindostan, was stormed in 1803, by 
the army under General Lake, and taken after a most obstinate resistance, 
during which the assailants sustained great slaughter. It was then one of 
Dowlet Row Sindia’s principal depots for military stores, the whole of which 
fell into the possession of the captors. The number of guns captured on this 
occasion (Vvas as follows : of brass, guns of various calibres, 33; iron ditto, 60; 
brass howitzers, 4 ; mortars, 2 ; iron wall-pieces, 182 ; making a total of 281 : 
besides which, there were found in the fort, large supplies of powder and shot, 
a number of new arms with accoutrements, a considerable stock of regimentals, 
consisting of blue jackets with red facings, made after the French fashion, and 
lastly, some tumbrils containing Spanish dollars. On account of its importance 
it was subsequently selected as the head quarters of a district, and a civil 
establishment was appointed for the administration of justice and collection of 
the revenue, subordinate to the Bareily division of the court of circuit and 
appeal. 

Cowl, or Coel (Covil). — When Abul Fazel wrote in 1582, Coel was a town 
of great importance, and the capital of a large district, but since then its con- 
sequence has greatly diminished. It stands in lat. 27® 64' N. long. 78® E. 60 
miles N. by E. from Agra. 

Bijeyohuu.— A fortified town in the province of Agra, 20 miles S. S. E- 



AUOHVB.j OF AGRA. 403 

from Alighur. Lat. 27® 48' N. long. 78“ 8' E. This place was taken by a British 
detachment in 1803> after a considerable resistance on the part of the zemindar. 

Secunoba (Secundra, Alexandria ). — A town in the province of Agra, 44 miles 
N. E. from the city of Agra. Lat. 27“ 42' N. long. 78“ 16' E. 

Hatbas (Hatkras ). — ^This town is situated about 31 miles N. of ' Agra, in 
lat. 27“ 37' N . long. 7 5“ 58' E. The fort is an oblong, its long diameter running 
nearly from west to east, measuring 1600 yards round the glacis. The ditch is 
120 feet wide and 85 deep, and the body of the place 4 or 500 yards in compass. 
In some places the scarp is perpendicular from above, in others it has been 
excavated so as to form extensive subterranean dwellings, w'ith windows 
opening into the body of the great ditch, into which apartments the zemindar's 
family frequently resorted during the intensity of the hot season. The Cutterah, 
or fortified town, lies west by north of the fort, about 700 yards distant. While 
under the Maharatta government, Hatras was a considerable mart for the 
cotton produced in the Agra province, which was sent from hence by an easy 
land carriage of 100 miles to Furruckabad on the Ganges, and from thence by 
water to Mirzapoor. 

Thakoor Boore Singh, zemindar of Hatras and Biswan, left two sons ; the 
oldest Newal Singh, the father of Hurkishen, the late Talookdar of Biswan, and 
Dyaram, who, in the absence of his elder brother, obtained and retained posse*' 
sion of the territory of Hatras. The forts and estates of Hatras and MoorSaun, 
are situated within the district of Alighur ; and formed part of the country ceded 
by Dowlet Row Sindia at the close of the year 1803 ; but from consideration 
for the former habits and prejudices of these persons, the British government 
forbore to exercise its right of insisting on the immediate demolition of their 
forts and reduction of their large military establishment. Similar considerations 
also induced government to sanction an adjustment of revenue with these chiefs 
on the most liberal terms, and to postpone the introduction of the Bengal 
judicial system. From that period, however, the chiefs of Hatras and Moor- 
saun systematically pursued a system directed to the establishment of total 
independence, protected criminals of all descriptions, and imprisoned British 
subjects in their strong holds for the purpose of extortion. The mint established 
at Hatras was also suspected of being the source for the coinage of the base 
silver and copper money, with which the neighbouring districts were overspread. 
Some of these observations applied, but in a lesser degree to the Talookdars of 
Awa and Biswan, who appeared to look up to Dyaram of Hatras, and to 
regulate their intercourse with the officers of government by his example. 

Re{>eated warnings and admonitions having failed to produce any permanent 
effect, a strong army 'was assembled, the destination of which does not appear 

3 F 2 



THE PROVINCE 


404 


[disteict or 


to have struck Dyaram, until the 10th of February, 1817, when various detach* 
ments of troops from different quarters were seen approaching the fortress, 
which was^ invested by Major General Marshall on the 12th of that month. 
These preparatory arrangements being accomplished, Dyaram was informed; 
that it was not the intention of government, if he submitted voluntarily, to 
make any alteration in the very liberal terms on which he held his zemindary, 
nor to resume his jaghire, nor inquire into his past misconduct. He was also 
apprized, that he should be permitted to retain all his private property, to 
occupy the houses and buildings in the interior of the fort, and that he would 
receive a reasonable compensation for the ordnance, arms, and military stores 
in his possession, with a sufficient number of armed men to support his dignity. 
The language of Dyaram in reply, at an early period, justified a suspicion that he 
had no serious intention of peaceably complying wdth the orders of government, 
and a subsequent breach of faith left no’ doubt that his only object was to gain 
time, in order to strengthen the defences of the city, and to make the prepara- 
tions which the sudden approach of the army had prevented. Warning was in 
consequence given to the inhabitants of the Cutterah, or fortified town, advising 
them of an impending siege, and recommending them to retire with their 
families, which admonition was by many of the peaceable inhabitants eagerly 
taken advantage of. On the 22d of February the batteries were opened against 
the Cutterah, which was evacuated on the 24th, and the breaching and mortar 
batteries being completed, the bombardment commenced about eight o’clock 
in the morning, and was continued with great effect for 15 hours. The practice 
from the batteries was admirable, and at five in the evening a lucky shell blew 
up the enemies magazine with a most terrific explosion, enveloping the whole 
fort in smoke and ruin. This circumstance, added to the destruction carried 
into the place from the increasing fire from 42 mortal’s, frightened Dyaram, who 
about eleven o'clock at night .sallied out with his horse and two sons, and escaped 
across the Jumna. The loss on the part of the British troops was quite incon- 
siderable, but the garrison suffered very severely, especially during the bom- 
bardment, and in their attempt to quit the fort 900 were made prisoners. 

Hatras being thus subdued. Raja Bhugwunt Singh immediately surrendered 
the strong fort of Moorsaun, and accepted the terms which had been unavailingly 
offered to Dyaram, and the effect of this example doubtless operated to facilitate 
the execution of the arrangements with the Talookdars of Awa and Biswan. 
The beneficial influence of these events was not confined to the improvement of 
the police, and to the more effectual administration of civil and criminal justice 
within the estates in question, but extended throughout all the north-western 
provinces, where it tended finally to suppress that spirit of turbulence and 



ALioHVE.] OF AGFA. 405 

reratance to the public authority, generated by the weakness and vices of the 
prior native governments . — (Public MS. Documents, Civil and Military, i^c. S^c.) 

Moors AUN. — Until lfil7 this was an independent zemindary, and a notorious 
resort of Thugs and Buddicks, two tribes much addicted to robbery, who here 
found an asylum for their persons, and a market for their booty. These plun- 
derers seldom make attacks in the country adjacent to their ordinary place of 
residence ; on the contrary, they separate into small parties, and proceed in 
various disguises to a considerable distance, where they unite and attack depots 
of treasure, or the houses of wealthy merchants. For the purpose of procuring 
intelligence of treasure, and opportunities of plunder, they scatter their emis- 
saries over Upper Hindostan ; but most frequently direct their attention to the 
province of Benares, whi^h is much infested by Buddicks from this remote 
quarter. On some occasions these miscreants have been known to join a 
traveller on the road, and having first stupified him by inducing him to eat 
sweet cakes and confectionary, containing seeds of the datura, subsequently 
plunder him at their leisure. The town of Moorsaun stands in lat. 27° 36' N. 
long, 77° 50' E. about 29 miles north of the city of Agra, and was formerly 
strongly fortified, but in 1817, after the capture of Hatras, a very unsatisfactory 
reply having been received from the zemindar Bhugwunt Singh, the cavalry of 
the besieging army were put in motion for the purpose of investing his fort; but 
subsequently, he acquiesced in the wishes of govemmer i and surrendered, when 
his strong hold was dismantled, but ail his landed and personal property 
conceded to him. — ( Blunt, S^c. S^c.) 

Maat . — k town in the province of Agra, 37 miles N. by W. from the city of 
Agra. Lat. 27° 39' N. long. 77° 33' E. 

S A8NEE ( Sasani ). — A town in the province of Agra, 38 miles N. by E. from 
the city of Agra. Lat. 27° 43' N. long. 78° E. The zemindar, being refractory, 
was expelled from this place in March, 1803, after a desperate resistance. 

Nmo (or Nmh). — ^This tovm is situated N. by W. from the city of Agra, in 
lat. 27° 61' N. long. 77° 31' E. and has long been noted for the manufacture of 
the salt distinguished by the name of salumba, and much used in the adjacent 
provinces to the east. In conducting the manufacturing process, after the 
water is drawn from the wells containing the saline springs, it is poured into 
reservoirs, where it is allowed to remain 8 or 10 days to settle, after which it 
is successively drawn off into a second and third reservoir, until it is clarified 
and sufficiently evaporated, which is usually the case in two or three weeks. 
The jewassah shrub is then thrown in, to hasten the crystallization, which takes 
place in about a fortnight, when the shrub is token out, and the salt separated 



m the province [auohue. 

from it. The salt which has not adhered to it is found at the bottom of the 
reservoir, and is of a smaller grain. 

In the financial year, 1215 (1808-9), the stock on hand amounted to 880,000 
maunds, being the produce of between 3 and 4 years. A certain portion of the 
quantity belongs to the ryots, or peasantry, and is purchased firom them by 
government. The price at the wells is from 2 to 6 annas per maund, according 
to quality, for exportation, and 8 annas per maund for local consumption on the 
right bank of the Jumna, the duty on the importation into the Doab being the 
principal profit accruing to government. The quantity annually required for 
consumption and exportation prior to 1809, averaged about 2 lacks and a half, 
but a considerable increase was anticipated in consequence of the general tran- 
quillity, and the opening of new marts. — ( J. T. Brmon, E. W. Blunt, ^x.) 

Tuppel. — A town in the Alighur district, 48 wiles S. by E. from Delhi. 
Lat. 28“ 3' N. long. 77“ 27' E. 

CuMooNAH.— A zemindar’s mud fort in the province of Agra, district of Ali- 
ghur, which in consequence of the refractory conduct of the possessor, was in 
1807 besieged by a strong British force. On the 19th of November a breach 
was effected, and an attempt made to carry the place by storm, but the assail- 
ants were driven back with great slaughter, the loss of men and officers exceeding 
that sustained in many pitched battles. The impression, however, made on the 
garrison was such, that they evacuated the strong hold during the night. This 
description of mud forts, when well defended, generally cause a greater loss to 
the besiegers than is sustained in the attack of more regular and apparently 
stronger fortifications. 

Anopsiieher ( Anapa Sheher ). — ^This town is situated on the west side of the 
Ganges, about 68 miles E. S. E. from Delhi. Lat. 28“ 23' N. long. 78“ 8' E. 

The town of Anopsheher is contained within a strong mud wall ; and though 
not of great extent is thickly inhabited, the houses being a mixture of brick and 
mud buildings. The surrounding wall is in some parts 20 and 30 feet thick. 
Formerly in this quarter of Hindustan, when a zemindar’s rent was demanded, he 
betook himself with all his effects to his fort, and there held out until overcome 
by a superior military force; frequently expending much more than the sum 
demanded in resisting the claim. — (Tennant, Sgc.) 

Ramghaut. — A town in the Agra province, situated on the west bank of the 
Ganges, which in the dry season is here fordable. Lat. 28“ 10' N. long. 78® 12' E. 
17 miles S. S. £. from Anopsheher. 



THE PROVINCE OF DELHI. 


The imperial province of Delhi is situated principally between the 28th and 31st 
degree^ of north latitude. To the north it is bounded by Lahore, and northern 
Hindostan west of the Goggra ; to the south by Agra and Ajraeer ; on the east it 
has Oude, and Northern Hindostan ; and on the west Ajmeer and Lahore. In 
length it may be estimated at 240 miles, by 180 the average breadth. By Abul 
Fazel, in 1582, it is described as follows ; — 

“ The soubah of Delhi is in the third climate. The length from Pulwul to 
Ludehauneh, on the banks of the Sutuleje, is 165 coss; and the breadth from 
circar Rewary to the mountains of Kemaoon, is 140 coss ; and again from His- 
sar to Khyzirabad it is 130 coss broad. On the east lies Agra ; on the north- 
east quarter is Khyrabad, in the province of Oude ; to the north are mountains ; 
on the south the boundaries are Agra and Ajmeer, and Ludehauneh confines it 
on the west. The principal rivers are the Ganges and Jumna, both of which 
have their sources in this soubah, and there are also many lesser streams. The 
climate is very temperate. Most of the lands are inundated during the rains, 
and some places produce three harvests in the year. The rhinoceros is fre- 
quently hunted in circar Sembhel. This soubah contains eight circars, viz. 1 
Delhi ; 2, Budayoon ; 3, Kemaun ; 4, Sembhel ; 5, Saharunpoor ; G, Rewary ; 
7, Hissar Ferozeh ; 8, Sirhind. These circars are divided into 232 pergunnahs ; 
the measured lands are 28,546,816 begahs; the amount of the revenue 
601,615,555 dams; out of which 33,075,739 are seyurghal.” 

In the above description there are more inaccuracies than in most others by 
Abul Fazel, which is remarkable considering the central position of the Delhi 
province, and that it had so long contained the capital of the empire. The 
principal modern geographical and political subdivisions are the following : 

1. The assigned territories 7. District of North Saharunpoor 

2. Rohilcund 8. District of South Saharunpoor or 

3. District of.Bareily Merut 

4. District of Mooradabad 9. Hurrianna 

6. District of Shahjenanpoor 10. Sirhind 

8. Rampore Jaghire 11. Pattialahand various petty Seik states. 

The British possessions west of the Jumna, before the incorporatiori of the 



408 THE PROVINCE 

Hurriamia, reached north to the village of Koeah« iat. 29” 48', in the |>ergun- 
nah of Kumal ; the boundary line from thence to the Jumma Mosque in Delhi 
was at Gohanna, 36 British miles distant from the river ; but the average breadth 
of the British territory north of Delhi and west of the Jumna, was only 26 
miles. Prom Agra to Delhi the gpreatest extent of the British territory west of 
that river, is 68 miles, to the small village Neicho on the western limits of 
Rewary ; but excluding that projection, the average breadth of the British ter- 
ritory between Delhi and Agra is only 24 miles. 

The Seik districts of Jeend and Kitul are much overgrown with trees, being 
the north-west part of the great jungle commencing in the Soneput pergunnah. 
The country is in consequence but thinly inhabited, and the land, which is low 
and apparently fertile, but indifferently cultivated. The territory west of Jheend 
and Kitul is free from jungle, the soil hard and fertile, and almost destitute of 
towns or villages. Beyond the Guggur the soil is heavy, and the ground rises. 
North and east of Kitul, the country is very fertile, being watered by the 
Guggur, Sereswati, and several smaller water courses. 

In 1 808, the zemindary of Kurnal was held in jaghire by Mahommedy Khan ; 
Kunkoodee and Bbewana by the Seik chief Bhung Singh ; the pergunnah of 
Gohanna was the joint jaidad of that person, and of the other Seik chief, Bhow 
Laul Singh. Pergunnah Fureedabad (in which is situated the fortress of Ba- 
lamgur), and pergunnah Palee Pukul, were the jaghire of the Jaut Raja Amood 
Singh ; 

Samalka, the jaghire of. Mirza Ashruf Beg ; 

Soak, Sersuah, Chatta, Khuree, and Shergur, composed the jaghires of Sin- 
dia’s relatives. 

The following zemindaries were held at a fixed rent ; 

Pulwul, by Morteza Khan ; 

Kooral, by Mahommed Khan Afreedee ; 

Hutteen. by Fyzoolah Beg ; 

Nudjiffghur, by Bukshee Bhowanny Sunker. 

In the large division of Rewary, a considerable extent of land was held at a 
fixed rent, and but few jaghires. 

In the Mewatty pergunnahs of Dhorah, Sonah, Nooh, and Kotelah, there 
were no lands held at a fixed rent. 

The pergunnahs of Paniput, Soneput, Gunover, and Palam, were partly com- 
posed of jaghires, and partly of Nizamut lands ; among those of the first men- 
tioned description was the jaghire of Bala Bhye, the daughter of Madhajee 
Sindia. 

The town of Kunjpoora, belonging to Rehmut Khan, with the viUagei of 



OF DELHI. 


409 

Jherabe, Mahmoodpoor, Khyraghur, and Nullee, were originally attached to the 
Budowly pergunnah, and are situated -to the -east of the Jurana. The pergunnah 
of Indree, which is of great extent, formerly belonged to the Kunjpoora chief- 
tain, who in 1808 still retained possession of the town and of a few villages only; 
the remainder having been seized upon by the Seik chiefs Bungali Singh, and 
Goordut Singh. 

The country given to Nijabut Ali Khan and others of the Baraitche family, 
contains the pergunnahs of Jhehur, Dadree, Kanoon, Badlee, Patoudee, Bawal, 
Kantee, and Bahadurghur ; and the whole is supposed to yield a revenue of 
eleven lacks of rupees per annum. The three towns first named are large open 
towns, tolerably well inhabited ; on the west of Kanoon is a small but strong 
fort, and Dadree has a fort on its north. Patoudee, Bawal, Badlee, and Kantee, 
are small towns. Twelve miles west of Kanoon is the small zemindary of Ma- 
daghur, famous for a strong fort of the same qame, which was a den of thieves 
until destroyed by a British detachment. 

The small pergunnah of Jarsee belongs to the Begum Somroo, is inhabited by 
Goojwrs, and tolerably well cultivated. A small nullah, or water course, which 
issues from the hills near the Cootub Minar, runs with great velocity on the 
north of Padshapoor, and falls into the jeel or shallow lake of Nudjiffabad. 

The eastern portion of Kitul, and the western of Kurnal, Phasul Negdoo, 
Beras, Joudlah, Joolmanah, Assund, Baree, and Jhakolie, is called the Nurduk 
country.' The inhabitants are Rungurs, and at times collect in considerable 
numbers and sweep the cattle from the neighbouring villages. 

The commencement of the long range of hills, extending through the Ma- 
cherry dominions towards Jeypoor, is at Wuzeerabad, a small village on the 
banks of the Jumna, a little way above Delhi. The first range as far as Sonah, 
with the pergunnahs of Palum, Nudjiffghur, Padshapoor, Fureedabad, and 
Palee Pakul, is inhabited chiefly by Goojurs. The second range, commencing on 
the west of Padshapoor to the Acberpoor ghaut beyond Alvar, by Mewaties. 

The rivers Gaggur, Sereswati, and Chittung, have their sources in the hills 
nqar Nahkn. The first proceeds by Shahabad, Koram, and Moonuk, towards 
Bhatneer. The banks are in general steep, and it has a small current of water. 
The Sereswati flows by Mustaphabad and Thanesur, and joins the Gaggur near 
Moonuk. The former course of the Chittung, which is supposed to have been 
brought from the hills by Feroze Shah, was by Ladooah, Dalchoor, Jeend, Hansi 
and Hissar, to Bahardaran, 48 miles W. by S. from Hissar, where it was lost in 
the ; but the channel of the river is not now to be traced further than 
Jeend, and from the scantiness of the stream, the water during the dry season 
seldom reaches beyond Dulchoor. 

vot. I. 3 o 



THE PROVINCE 


410 


[the assioked 


Respecting the Shah Nehr, and the Nehr Behesht, scarcely any thing is 
known but the names. The Saban, Kasoontee, and Dhahan nullahs, or water 
courses, have no water except during the rains, yet in some places, owing to the 
light nature of the soil, their beds are spread out a mile in breadth. The Sabee 
and Kasoontee fall into the jeel or shallow lake at Killah, which communicates 
with the NudjifF jeel, and ultimately with the Jumna above Delhi. The Dahan 
is wholly absorbed near Dadree. The sources of these nullahs are not known. 

The road from Mathura to Rewary is either by Padshapoor or Kishenghur, 
between which places (a distance of 40 miles) there is no pass through which 
guns and tumbrils could proceed ; although there are several passes, such as 
Sonah, through which horse and unladen camels may penetrate. The ghaut, or 
pass, at Kishenghur is cut out of the solid rock, on the sides of which are some 
works for its defence. From the cantonments at Rewary- to Muttra by this 
route, is about 111 miles ; and by the Padshapoor route about 113. Respecting 
the passes of Acberpoor and Hindolee, little is known. 


THE ASSIGNED TERRITORIES. 


On the expulsion of the Maharattas from Upper Hindostan in 1803, a large 
portion of territory was assigned for the support of the royal household, con- 
sisting of the following pergunnahs which were leased on a triennial scttle- 


ment ; — 

1st year. 

2d year. 

3d year. 

Rewary 

Noh, Hateen, Tizarah, Bhora, Tapookra, 

108,000 . 

120,500 . 

135,501 

Sona, Kollah, Indore .... 

124,000 . 

135,625 . 

148,339 

Hooral, Pulwul, Palee, Pankul . . 

85,003 . 

95,628 . 

107,581 

Aiaverdi 

12,501 . 

13,500 . 

14,500 

Nugeena 

16,000 . 

17,000 . 

18,062 

Ferozepoor, Sangnees 

5,001 . 

6,001 . 

6,001 

Munsoby 

3,447 . 

3,447 . 

3,447 


353,952 

390,701 

432,432 

Rewary is one of the pergunnahs which 

was given to the Raja of 

Bhurtpoor 


in October, 1803, and which were afterwards resumed in consequence of his 
treachery. Noh, Huteen, Tizarah, &c. are situated in Mewat, and were also lands 
given to the Raja of Bhurtpoor and resumed. Hooral and Pulwul are on the Jumna, 
adjacent to the district of Agra. Aiaverdi is in the neighbourhood of Delhi. 
Nugeena, Sangnees, and Ferozepoor, are in Mewat, were given to the Raja of 
Bhurtpoor, and resumed. The remaining pergunnahs of the assigned territory 
viz. Paniput, Soneput, Gunnoor, and Samalka, were estimated to yield 68,704 
rupees in the fusly or financial year, 1213 (1806-7). These pergunnahs are 
situated to the north of Delhi, and it is said, in conjunction with Kumal, yielded 



TERKIT0RXE8.] OF DELHI. 411 

above 12 lacks of rupees anjiually, during the <;xistence of the great canal, ex- 
cavated in the reign of Jehangire, by Ali Merdan Khan, a Persian nobleman of 
his court. Paniput was at that period a place of great importance, and an 
emporium of trade from the Punjab, Cashmere, Cabul, Persia, and all the 
western countries. The commercial intercourse was then active and extensive ; 
but on account of the long distracted state of the country, prior to 1805, had 
nearly ceased to exist. 

For the pergunnahs of Kanoon, Kautic, and Narnoul, government, in 1805, 
received an offer of 147,000 rupees per annum. These tracts are situated be- 
tween the territories of the Macherry Raja, and the Shekawutty country. The 
pergunnahs named below were estimated on the average of 5 years, as follows ; 

Havilee Palum . . . 55,000 Poonahara 18,000 

Bhewana \ oo2 14,000 

Mudhautee ) ’ Village of Majaul .... 2951 

Nudjiffghur .... 34,000 Kishenagur and dependencies 70,000 

The last is a hill fortress of some strength and importance, built by Sooraj Mull 
the celebrated Jaut Raja, and ancestor of the Bhurtpoor Raja. Within the as- 
sessed territories are several jaghires and jaidads; the principal holders in 1805 
were — the Nabob Bhumboo Khan ; Nabob Nijabct Ali Khan, and family; the 
Seik chiefs Bhaug Singh, Laul Singh, kc. &c. 

The revenue of the assigned territories, under the su})erintendance of the resi- 
dent at Delhi, continued so gradually to increase, that in 1814, they were not 
only sufficient to defray the expense of supporting the royal family of Delhi, 
but left a considerable surplus applicable to general purposes. — 

.Tumma, or land assessment, of the assigned territories 


in 1811-12 994,944 

1812 1,039,560 

1813 1,256,505 (£145,754) 


A further increase may be looked for on the falling in of certain jaghires by the 
death of the existing incumbents, and especially by the renewal of the canal of 
Ali Merdan Khan, now choked up and useless; but in the reconstruction of 
which the credit of the British government is implicated. There is no portion 
of Hindostan susceptible of greater improvement by irrigation than the province 
oi' Delhi, and it is probable that an immense extent of moving sand, at present 
not merely unproductive, but threatening to overwhelm the neighbouring lands, 
might be again brought under cultivation. In ancient times several rivers 
traversed the north .western quarter, which have long ceased to flow : and one 
of them now lost, the Sereswati, was of such magnitude, as to mark a geogra- 
phical regime in the books of Hindoo mythological history. With little trouble 

3 o 2 



THE PROVINCE 


412 


[ THE CITY or 


or expense when compared with the benefit, these fivers might be again led into 
their former channels, and much valuable moisture, which now flows undis- 
turbed through the Sutuleje and Jumna to the sea, might be arrested in its 
progress, and made subservient to the purposes of husbandry. The objections 
to these projected improvements are the difficulty of conducting a stream across 
a territory so intersected by deep ravines, and the political state of the country, 
a considerable portion being held by petty native states, in the improvement 
of which the British nation has no direct interest. The canal of Ali Merdan 
Khan, being wholly within the conquered territories, is exempt from the last 
objection, and the increased fertility of the tract it penetrates would more than 
compensate for the expenditure. In 1817, it appears to have seriously attracted 
the attention of the Bengal government, as an intelligent officer of Engineers was 
deputed to survey the former channel, and report on the practicability of its 
reconstruction. In A. D. 1358, Feroze III. excavated a canal from the 
Sutuleje to the Jedjer, 100 miles in length, and dug many other canals and con- 
duits, which in the confusion of the succeeding events were neglected, and have 
long been so completely choked up that all traces of them have disappeared. 

Compared with Bengal and the Company’s old provinces Delhi is but thinly 
inhabited, and probably does not on the whole exceed eight millions, consisting 
of a mixture of Hindoos, Mahommedans and Seiks, the latter religion being 
prevalent in the north-western quarter. The principal towns are Delhi, Bareily, 
Pillibect, Shahjehanpoor, Rampoor, Moradabad, Anopshehr, Merut, Seerdhuna, 
Saharunpoor, Patiallah, Ambahlah, and Sirhind, under which heads, and the 
territorial subdivisions, respectively, further local details will be found. The 
districts under the immediate superintendance and jurisdiction of the British 
government, are in a state of the most rapid improvement in population, revenue 
and cultivation, but the prosperity of the country subject to the native chiefs is 
greatly retarded by their increasing feuds and defective police. Being however 
protected from external annoyance by their great ally, their territories, in spite 
of the internal obstacles, have also experienced a considerable amelioration, and 
yield to their possessors much larger revenues and increased resources gene- 
rally. Many parts of the province, however, still display immense tracts of 
naked sterility, but little interrupted either by trees, cultivation, or inhabitants. 
— (Lkut. White, Metcalfe, Abttl Fa:^l, ^'c, ^'c.) 


THE CITY OF jyELlJ.l ‘ (in Sanscrit Indraprastha.) 

The ancient capital of the Patan and Mogul empires, situated in lat. 28® 41' N. 
long. 77^ 5' E. During the splendid era of Delhi, according to popular tradition, 
it covered a space of 20 square miles, and the ruins at present occupy nearly 



OF DELHI. 413 

as great an extent ; but notwithstanding its great antiquity, and the long period 
of time during which it has ranked as the first city of Hindostan, there is nothing 
in its locality particularly attractive, the adjacent soil being rather of a sterile 
than fruitful description, and the river unnavigable during the dry season for 
boats of any considerable burthen. Under these disadvantages, however, it had 
become a city of great fame and magnitude, prior to the Mahommedan invasion, 
when it was distinguishe4 in the Hindoo books of mythological history, by the 
appellation of Indraprasth. In the year 1031, the Emperor Shah Jehan founded 
the city of new Delhi, on the west bank of the Jumna, which he named Shahje- 
hanabad. It is about seven miles in circumference, and is surrounded on 
three sides by a wall of brick and stone, but without artillery. The city has 
seven gates, viz. Lahore gate, AJmeer gate, Turkoman gate, Delhi gate, Mohur 
gate, Cabul gate, and Cashmere gate. Near the Ajmeer gate is a madrissa, or 
college, of great extent, built by Ghazi ud Deen, the grandson of Nizam u^ 
Mulk ; but it is now shut up and without inhabitants. 

Within the city of Jehanabad, or new Delhi, are the remains of many splendid 
palaces, which formerly belonged to the great Omrahs of the empire. Among 
the largest are those of Kummer ud Deen Khan, Ali Merdan Khan, Ghazi ud 
Deen Khan, and Sefdar Jung. There are, also, the garden of Coodseah Begum, 
mother of the Emperor Mahommed Shah ; the ])alace of Saadet Khan, and that 
of Sultan Darah Shekoh. They are all surrounded with high walls, and take up 
a considerable space of ground, as they comprehend baths, stables for all sorts of 
animals, and music galleries, besides an extensive seraglio. In this quarter of 
Delhi are many very fine mosques, still in good repair, the chief of which is the 
Jumma Musjeed, or great cathedral, which was begun by Shah Jehan in the fourth, 
and completed in the tenth year of his reign, after an expenditure of ten lacks of 
rupees. Not far from the palace is the mosque of Rowshun ud Dowlah, where 
in 1739, Nadir Shah sat and saw the massacre of the unfortunate inhabitants; 
since which period this part of the town has been but thinly inhabited. Besides 
these there are forty other mosques, but of an inferior size. 

The modern city of Delhi contains many good houses, mostly of brick. The 
streets are in general narrow, with the exception of two ; the first leading-from 
the palace to the Delhi g^te, which is broad and spacious, and had formerly an 
aqueduct along its whole extent ; the second from the palace to the Lahore gate. 
The bazars of Delhi are but indifferently furnished, and the population much 
reduced since the reign of Aurengzebe, when it is said to have contained two 
nuUions of inhabitants, an estimate in all probability very much exaggerated- 
The Chandery Choke used to be the best furnished bazar, but the comnrorce is 
trifling. Cotton cloths and indigo are srill manufactured in the town and neigh- 



THE PROVINCE 


414 


[city 01 


bourhood. The chief imports are by the northern caravans which arrive wnually, 
and bring from Casamere and Cabul shawls, fruic, end horses. Precious stones 
of a good quality are to be had jit Delhi, particularly the large red and black 
cornelians and peerozas ; beedree hooka bottoms are also manufactured here. 
The cultivation in the neighbourhood is chiefly on the banks of the /unma, 
where wheat, rice, millet and indigo .are '.raised. The city is partitioned into 
36 divisions, each named after a, paftifidlar pobleman 'v^o formerly had his resi- 
dence in that quarter, or from some local circumstance. The modem Delhi is 
principally built on two rocky emin net Ihe palace was erected by the 
Emperor Shah Jehan. It is situated on the werit bank of the Jumna, and is 
surrounded on three sides by a wall oi red stone, the circumference of the whole 
being about one mile. Adjoining to it is the fortress of Selimghui:, now in ruins. 
The observatory is in the vicinity of Delhi, and was built in the third year of 
Mahommed Shah, by Raja Jeysingh, but.has since oeen repeatedly plundered. 

The gardens of Shalimar were made by the Emperor Shah Jehan, and are said 
to have cost one million sterling ; but, like his other works, are now in ruins. 
They appear to have occupied about one mile in circumference, and were sur- 
rounded by a high brick wall. The prospect to the southward of Shalimar, as 
far as the eye can reach, is covered with the remains of extensive gardens, 
pavilions, mosques, and sepulchres; all desolate and in ruins. During the 
reign of Jehangire, Ali Merdan Khan brought a canal from the Jumna, where 
that river approaches Carnaul, to Delhi, a distance of more than one hundred 
miles, which continued in existence until after the period of the Mogul and 
Afghan invasions, but was subsequently wholly choked up. In the suburbs of 
Mogul Parah, this canal extended three miles in length, and had small bridges 
erected over it, at different places. In 1810, the British government employed 
workmen to clear and repair this portion of the canal. The travelling distance 
from Calcutta by the Birboom road is 976 miles. 


Rajas of Delhi, or Indraput, are mentioned by the Mahommedan historians 
so early as A. D. 1008; and in 1011, the city was taken and plundered by Sultan 
Mahmood of Ghizni, but it was restored to the Raja as a tributary. 

1193. A. D. Cuttub ud Deen, the slave of Mahommed Gauri, took possession 
of Delhi from the Hindoo princes, and <iommenced the series of Afghan or 
Patan sovereigns, which reigned until the invasion of Baber, the great grand- 
son of Timour. Cuttub ud Deen continued subject to the Gauride sovereigns 
of north-western India, until the destruction of that dynasty by Gengis Khan. 
1210. Taje ud Deen ascended the throne. 

1210. Aram Shah. 



DELHI.] OF DELHI. 415 

1210. Shams ud Been Altumsh. 

1236. Feroze Shah. 

1236. Mallekeh Doran, Saltana Reziah. 

1239. Byram Shah. 

1242. Allah ud Deen Massud Shah. 

1244. Nassir ud Deen. 

1266. Yeaz ud Deen Balin. 

1286. Kaicobad. 

1289. Feroze Shah Khiljee. 

1295. Seconder Sani, 

1316. Shaheb ud Deen Omar. 

1317. Mubaric Shah. 

1324. Sultan Mahommed. 

1351. Feroze Shah the second. 

1289. Abubecre Shah. 

1393. Nassir ud Deen Mahmood Shah. Timour in 1398, crossed the Indus, and 
took and pillaged Delhi during the reign of this prince; with whom, in 1413, 
ended the dynasty of Afghan princes of the tribe of Khiljee. Timour died 
A. D. 1405, in his 71st year. 

1413. Dowlet Khan Lodi. 

1414. Khizzer Khan. 

1421. Mobaric Shah. 

1433. Mahommed Shah the second. 

1446. Allah ud Deen the second. 

1460. Beloli Lodi. During this and the preceding reigns Hindostan was 
divided into separate states ; for in the Deccan, Gujerat, Malwah, Juanpoor, 
and Bengal, there were 'princes who assumed the style and dignity of kings. 
The districts also in the immediate vicinity of Delhi were occupied by different 
chiefs, who scarcely even in appearance acknowledged the supremacy of the 
Delhi sovereign. 

1488. Seconder Ben Lodi. 

1516. Ibrahim Lodi. In 1525 this prince was defeated by Sultan Baber, who 
the same year took possession of Delhi, and founded the Mogul dynasty. 

1525. Sultan Baber. 

1530. Humayoon. This'prince was expelled by Shere Shah the Afghan, but after 
the decease of the latter recovered possession, and was succeeded by his son, 

1666. Acber the first. This prince was bom at Amercote in 1542, proclaimed 
Emperor in 1556, and died at Agra in 1605. He was the greatest of all the 



416 THE PROVINCE [city of 

sovereigns of Delhi. His vizier Abul Fazel was murdered by some banditti 
in the 47th year of his age. 

1G05. Jchanghirc. 

1G28. Shdh Jehan. 

1658. Aurengzebe. Died the 21st February, 1707. 

Shah Allum the first. His eldest son died by poison in 1712. 

.leh'andaur Shah, dethroned and killed in 1712. 

Ferokhsere was assassinated in 1719. 

Ruffeh ul Dirjat, a child, died in 1719, reigned four months. 

Ruffeh ud Dowlah, a child, died in 1720, reigned three months. 

Mahomraed Shah the third, died in 1747. In 1735, the Maharattas had made 
such progress that they burned the suburbs of Delhi. Nadir Shah entered 
Delhi on the 9 th of March, 1739, and on the 14th of April began his retreat, 
having collected immense plunder. 

Mahommed Shah was succeeded by Ahmed Shah, who in 1753 was dethroned 
and blinded. 

Alumgeer the second, was assassinated in 1756, in which year Ahmed Shah 
Abdalli first entered Delhi. 

Shah Jehan the second, dethroned in 1760. 

Shah Allum the second. This monarch ascended the throne in 1761, and com- 
menced his reign by an unprovoked and ill-conducted attack on the British 
possessions in Bengal, then recently acquired ; but finding himself baffled and 
defeated, he soon after voluntarily surrendered himself at the British camp, 
without treaty, condition, or stipulation. On the acquisition of the Dewanny, 
by Lord Clive, in 1765, a pension of 26 lacks of rupees was assigned to him, 
with a considerable tract of fertile territory in Upper Hindostan, both of 
which he forfeited in 1771-, by quitting the protection of his benefactors and 
repairing to Delhi, where he became a prisoner and political instrument under 
the custody of the Maharattas, who, about 1770, had gained possession of that 
city. In 1788, Gholaum Kaudir, the Rohillali, having by a sudden irruption 
made himself master of Delhi, seized the unfortunate Emperor, and after 
exposing him for many weeks to every species of insult and degradation, in 
order to extort the disclosure of supposed concealed treasures, concluded by 
piercing his eyes with a dagger, so as completely to extinguish the sight. For 
the attainment of the same object, he massacred, starved to death, and tortured, 
many of the royal family and of the chief inhabitants of Delhi, but being 
compelled to quit the city by a detachment from the army of Madhajee Sindia, 
he was captured during his flight, and expired under the tortures he had ao 
mercilessly inflieted. 



DELHI.] OF DELHI. 417 

Nor was the misery of the Mogul Emperor’s condition alleviated by the transfer 
in js^hire, which about this period took place, of Delhi and some adjacent terri- 
tory, to the French officers commanding the corps of disciplined infantry 
retained in the service of Madhajee, and afterwards of his nephew Dowlet Row 
Sindia ; for although he came successively under the ostensible superintendance 
of M. de Boigne, M. Perron, and.M. Drugeon, he effectively remained a prisoner 
in the hands of the native Maharatta officers, and subjected to all their proverbial 
rapacity. During 1802, when there were 52 sons and daughters of the emperor, 
the monthly stipend allowed to each prince of the imperial family did not exceed 
15 rupees per month (£21 per annum); and the sums disbursed by M. Drugeon, 
who had the charge of the emperor's person, for the aggregate expenses of his 
majesty, the royal family, dependants and establishments, amounted only to 
17,000 rupees per month, or £23,GG4 per annum: while the Maharattas retained 
and converted to their own use all the gardens and houses in and about the 
city which were royal property, and perpetrated the most atrocious crimes for 
the purposes of extortion in the name of their imperial prisoner. 

Such was the destdation of the ancient capital in 1S0.3, when Lord Lake, 
having defeated the army of Dowlet Row Sindia, six miles from Delhi, on the 
11th of September, entered it the next day, to the infinite joy of the aged 
emperor; and the Maharatta sway in Upper Hindostan being subsequently 
completely destroyed by a series of discomfitures, the Bengal government pro- 
ceeded to make arrangements for his support. As a commencement, all the 
houses, gardens, and lands, of ivhich the royal family had been deprived by the 
Maharattas, were restored to them, and these soon became of great value from 
the increased security of property. It was also determined that a specified pro- 
portion of the territories in the vicinity of Delhi, situated on the right bank of 
the Jumna, should be assigned in part of the provision for the maintenance of 
the royal family ; — these lands to remain under the charge of the resident at 
Delhi, but the revenue to be collected and justice administered in the name of 
the Emperor Shah Allum, under regulations to be promulgated by the supreme 
government. That his Majesty should be permitted to appoint a dewan and 
other inferior officers, to attend at the office of the collector, for the purpose of 
ascertaining and reporting to his Majesty the amount of the collections, and 
satisfying his mind that no part of the revenue of the assigned territory was 
misappropriated ; that two courts of Justice should be established for the distri- 
bution of civil and criminal justice, according to the iMahommedan law, to the 
inhabitants of the city of Delhi and the assigned territory : that no sentence of 
the criminal court extending to the punishment of death should be carried into 
execution without the express sanction of his Majesty, to whom the proceedings 

VOL. I. 3 H 



THE PROVINCE 


418 


[city of 


in all trials of this description were to be reported ; and that sentences of muti- 
lation should be commuted : that to provide for the immediate wants of his 
Majesty and the royal household, the following sums should be paid in money 
from the treasury of the resident at Delhi : 

Rupees. 

To his Majesty for his private expenses . . . . . pe,r month 60,000 

To the heir apparent, exclusive of certain jaghires 10,000 

To a favourite son of his Majesty, named Mirza Izzct Buksh . . . 5,000 
To his Majesty's. 50 younger sons and daughters 10,000 


To Shah Nawauz Khan, his Majesty’s treasurer 2,500 

To Seid Rizzee Khan, British agent at his court, and related to him 

by marriage 2,500 


Total per mensem 90,000 

Amounting to £125,000 per annum, to be afterwards augmented to j lack of 
rupees per month, if the future produce of the assigned lands adm.^ted of it, 
exclusive of all private property^ and of 10,000 rupees to be paid his Majesty 
on the celebration of certain festivals. 

The most urgent wants of the aged monarch and his family being thus sup- 
plied, various municipal improvements were effected, some of the canals were 
cleaned, the principal streets cleared of rubbish, and an efficient police estab- 
lished. The punishment of mutilation was abolished in this and in all the adja- 
cent territories subject to the British jurisdiction, and a regulation was enacted, 
directing that when a person by the Mahommedan law was condemned to lose 
two limbs, the decree should be commuted to imprisonment and hard labour for 
a term of fourteen years; and if one limb, the same for seven years. The 
frequent assassinations which were customary during the Maharatta administra- 
tion were effectually suppressed, more by the institution of regular courts, to 
which persons aggrieved could appeal, than by any extension of the penal code 
or sanguinary examples. But in thus protecting the person and increasing the 
comforts of the Mogul Emperor, it was never intended by the British government 
to employ the royal prerogative as an instrument to establish any controul over 
the different states and chieftains of India. An object of importance had been 
attained by his rescue from the custody of the French and Maharattas, who 
made use of his name to sanction their machinations for the subversion of the 
British dominion, in Hindostan, and retained in the most degraded condition of 
poverty and insult this unfortunate representative of the house of Timour. 
The most rational course appeared to be, to leave the king’s authority exactly in 
the state in which it was found, and to afford the royal family the means of 



OF DELHI. 


DELHI.] 


419 


subsistence, not merely in a style of comfort, but of decent splendour, not 
unsuitable to a fallen but illustrious race, to whose power the British nation had 
in a great naeasure succeeded. 

From this period (September, 1803) the tranquillity of Delhi remained undis- 
turbed until October, 1804, when Holcar, who was retreating from Mathura 
before Lord Lake, sent his infantry, provided with a formidable train of artillery, 
to invest the city, and the siege was accordingly commenced on the 7th day of 
that month. Owing to a variety of pressing exigencies in other quarters, the 
garrison was at this time not only too small for the defence of so immense a city, 
(the walls of which, besides their great extent, were accessible on all sides,) but 
extremely faulty in its composition, consisting partly of 300 Mewaties, robbers 
by profession, and a body of irregular horse, whose fidelity could not be relied 
on. The Mewaties justified their previous character by going over to the 
enemy at an early stage of the siege; and the irregular horse fled on the 
approach of the enemy, and could not be prevailed on to impede his advance by 
an attack while on the march. The enemy a few days afterw'ards having opened 
their batteries, and several breaches being effected, as much by the concussion 
of the guns on the crumbling ramparts, as by their shot, an attempt was made 
to carry the place by escalade, in which they were repulsed ; and soon after- 
wards their guns were spiked in their batteries, during a sortie, by a detachment 
under Lieutenant Rose. Being thus baffled in their endeavours, they moved off 
on the 15th of October, although they had prepared their mines laid under the 
bastions between the Turkoman and Ajmeer gates, one of them pushed directly 
under the bastion and ready to be loaded. In this manner, by the judicious 
arrangements of Colonels Burn and Ochterlony, and the determined resistance of 
their troops, a small force was enabled to sustain a siege of nine days, repelled 
an assault, and defended a city ten miles in circumference, which had ever been 
heretofore given up on the first appearance of an enemy. 

Shah Allum survived this event until December, 180C, when he finished a long 
and calamitous reign of 45 years, in the eighty-third of his life, and on the same 
day his oldest legitimate son, Acber, was placed on the throne. The accession of 
this printe was marked by the most unexampled tranquillity, the commence- 
ment of every prior reign having been invariably stained with bloodshed, and 
disturbed with tumult and commotion. But although peace prevailed without, 
discord raged within the walls of the seraglio, and Acber the Second had 
scarcely ascended the throne when, at the instigation of unprincipled advisers, 
he commenced a series of intrigues with the view of effecting the exclusion of his 
eldest son, Abul Zuffer, aged 32, (to whom he had taken a preposterous aversion) 
from the succession, and of procuring the sanction of the British government to 

3 h2 



THE PROVINCE 


420 


[city of 


the nomination of his fourth and favourite son Jehandar Shahitis Walli Ahud, or 
heir apparent. The causes of the different princes were supported by parties 
witliin the walls of the palace, and the most cpntemptible acts of meanness and 
absurdity practised by the different factions. The cause of the legitimate heir, 
however, was fast declining, owing to the unnatural hatred of his father, who 
being naturally weak, was perplexed by the artifices of his servants, among 
whom no honest man could remain without external support. Being entirely 
ignorant also of his relative situation to the British government, he persevered in 
his determination to alter the line of succession, notwithstanding the reiterated 
remonstrances of the resident, who soon found that the effect of the kindness of 
the British government was quite destroyed by the impositions practised on 
him by his family and attendants, each of whom claimed the merit of accomplish* 
ing every measure in which his protectors acquiesced. 

Accordingly, after several preliminary steps, Acber the second proceeded to 
the extremity of openly proclaiming his fourth son, .Tehandar Shah, heir apparent, 
under the pretext that the oldest was disqualified for such an elevation by the 
weakness of his intellects. In this emergency the interposition of the British 
government became necessary, and the resident at Delhi was in consequence 
directed to institute an investigation regarding the sanity or derangement of the 
legitimate successor. The result of this was highly favourable to him, and the 
fact being established, his Majesty was informed, that it was an invariable maxim 
of British policy never to pass over the next in succession and l&wful claimant to 
the throne, unless circumstances were so strongly against him as to preclude all 
hopes of improvement or amendment. That in the present case no such urgency 
existed, as the heir apparent’s mind seemed quite adequate to his duties, and 
that the evils which would originate from an irregular succession were too great 
to permit so momentou.s a deviation, merely for the possible benefit to be 
derived from a successor of greater abilities. Nor could any thing very satis- 
factory be expected from the conduct of such a sovereign as his favourite Jehandar 
Shah, whose youth, and whatever abilities he possessed, had been directed to 
the base purpose of supplanting his eldest brother. To prevent the recurrence 
of the miserable artifices which had so long distracted the interior of the seraglio, 
and now threatened the capital with commotion, Jehandar Shah was ordered to 
take up his future residence at Allahabad, there to remain under the supervision 
of the judge and magistrate. 

The prosperity of the territories, assigned in 1803 for the support of his Majesty 
and the royal family, continuing progressive, in 1812 his stipend was augmented 
to one lack of rupees per month, or £139,200 per annum. On their acquisition 
in 1803, they were leased on a triennial settlement, and the first year they yielded 



DELHI.] OF DELHI. 421 

only 353,952 rupees, (£41,058) ; but so rapidly did a few years of tranquillity and 
good government ameliorate the condition of the cultivators, and the productive 
powers of the lands, that in 1814, they realized 1,256,505 nipees, or £145,754 
sterling. Nor did the ancient and venerable capital experience less benefit from 
the transfer than the surrounding territory, although the effects were not so 
quickly perceptible ; and no improved system of government could compensate 
for the. absence of a splendid and luxurious court, which in India will always 
collect a population and create a city. Ever since the death of Aurengzebe its 
population had been decreasing, and under the Sindia family its decline was so 
uninterrupted, that the land within the walls became of little or no value to the 
owners, who carelessly disposed of their rights for any trifle of ready money, and 
frequently to escape extortion disclaimed their properties altogether. Of this 
supineness they had subsequently cause to repent ; for no sooner had the city 
surrendered to Lord Lake, than the value of houses and lauds within the walls 
instantaneously doubled, and it has been progressively increasing ever since. 

Among the most magnificent and useful memorials of the taste and splendour 
of the Emperor Shah Jehan remaining at Delhi, is the well belonging to the 
Jumma Musjeed (mosque) which was excavated, at an immense expense, out of 
the solid rock on which that edifice stands. The water is raised by a complicated 
machinery and a succession of reservoirs to the area of the mosque, where at the 
top of a grand flight of stairs it fills a small fish pond, and is of great utility to all 
ranks of persons, but more especially to the Mahommedans in the performance 
of their prescribed ablutions. For many years the decayed state of some of the 
principal wheels, and the ruinous condition of the machinery, rendered the 
supply of water both difficult to procure and extremely limited in quantity. At 
length, in 1809, it completely failed, and the consequences during the intensity 
of the hot season were extremely distressing to the inhabitants, and excited con- 
siderable interest in the mind of the Emperor. Under these circumstances Mr. 
Seton, the resident at Delhi, conceiving that the repair of the well, at the 
expense of the British government, would be highly gratifying to the inhabitants, 
authorized its being put into a state of repair, and the expense incurred was sub- 
sequently sanctioned by the supreme government. 

No regular census of the inhabitants of Delhi has ever been taken, and any 
attempt at an actual enumeration would be viewed with jealousy and distrust 
by a people naturally averse to innovation, or to any new arrangement which 
tends to bring them more under observation, or seems likely to impose on them 
either additional duties or expense. From a concurrence of circumstances, there 
is reason to believe that the total number is somewhere between 150,000 and 
200,000 souls ; and small as this estimate is for so great a capital, the amount 



THE PROVINCE 


422 


[CITV OF DELHI. 


more than doubles that of Agra, its former rival, the population of which is not 
now supposed to exceed 60,000. But notwithstanding its decayed condition an 
impression is still prevalent all over India, that the power which has possession 
of Delhi and the king s jjerson is the virtual ruler of Hindostan ; and under this 
idea many* independent states have repeatedly applied to be received as subjects 
and tributaries, and complained of the refusal as a dereliction of duty on the part 
of the British government. For a great many years past applications of this 
nature have been most pressingly urged by the Rajas of Joudpoor, JeypOor, 
Bicanere, Jesselmere, Assam, Cachar, and Arracan ; the Nabobs of Mooltan and 
Behawulpoor, and by the numerous petty states so long harrassed by the depre- 
dations of Sindia, Holcar, Ameer Khan, and other plunderers. From the same 
cause also, although the Delhi Sovereign had been long deprived of all real power 
and dominion, before political events brought him connected with the British 
government, almost every state, and every class of people in India, still continue 
to reverence his nominal authority. The current coin of every established power 
is still struck in his name, and the princes of the highest rank still bear the titles, 
and display the insignia, which they or their ancestors derived from this source; 
and the Delhi Emperor, amidst all his viscissitudes, is still considered the only 
legitimate fountain of similar honours. In conformity with this notion it is usual, 
when a Hindoo prince succeeds to his deceased father, to solicit the Mogul 
to honour him with a teeka, as a mark of investiture, or at least of royal 
approbation; which ceremony consists in having the forehead anointed with a 
preparation of bruised sandal wood. Although this inunction had long ceased 
to be a necessary token of confirmation of the successor’s right, it was still con- 
sidered so gratifying a mark of distinction, that in 1807, Maun Singh, the 
powerful Raja of Joudpoor, petitioned the British government with much anxiety 
to interfere with the King to obtain it for him. The British government, how- 
ever, refused to interfere, the right of conferring the mark of distinction being 
considered an obsolete act of sovereignty, the revival of which would be parti- 
cularly objectionable. It was feared, moreover, that their interposition wo^d be 
considered as a recognition of the pretensions of Raja Maun Singh, then disputed 
by a competitor, and as a departure from the neutrality which had always been 
observed. The Raja was accordingly apprized of this determination; the 
inutility of the act, as a mark of confirmation was represented, as w'ell as the 
folly of making an unmeaning reference -of the validity of his title to a power 
which neither claimed nor exercised a right to grant or witlihold it. 

The universality of this impression throughout Hindostan may be further 
inferred from the conduct of the Tamburetty or Princess of Travancore, a Hindoo 
state situated near Cape Comorin, the southern extremity of the region, and at 



CUTTUB MIUAB.] OF DELHI. 423 

no period of its history subject to the Mogul, or to any Mahommedan superior : 
yet, in 1 813, she applied to have a dress of investiture for her son, the infant Raja, 
although he was under the special guardianship of the British government, to 
which he was indebted for the tranquillity of his accession. The result of her 
application was the same as the one above mentioned, but she could not be con- 
vinced that the ceremonial was wholly superfluous. Under existing circum- 
stances his Majesty’s assumption of legitimate authority is altogether incompa- 
tible with the situation in which he is placed ; his granting dresses of investiture 
was accordingly prohibited, both as impolitic, and as adding nothing to the vali- 
dity of the succession. The same objection did not apply to the granting of 
titles, which have been admitted, through the agency of the British government, 
in favour of the Nizam and of the Nabobs of Bengal and the Carnatic. 

These and similar applications, the King, being a man of weak intellects ana 
quite infatuated with the idea of his own importance, is much disposed to 
encourage, because they at once gratify his visions of departed dignity, and 
promise to prove a source of emolument to his servants, and to the hordes of 
intriguers by whom he is surrounded. The exercise of such authority, however, 
is completely at variance with the scheme of British policy, the fundamental 
maxim of which is, that it shall not derive from the charge of protecting and 
supporting his Majesty, the privilege of employing the royal prerogative as an 
instrument for establishing any controul or ascendancy over the chiefs or states 
of India, or of asserting on the part of his Majesty, any of the claims which, in 
his capacity of Emperor of Hindostan, tliat prince may consider himself tc 
possess upon the provinces formerly composing the Mogul empire. The Britisl 
power in India is of too substantial a nature to incur the hazard of resorting tt 
the dangerous expedient of borrowing any portion of authority from the lustre of 
the Mogul name ; it could not therefore permit his interference to withdraw the 
inhabitants from their obedience to their actual superiors, or that he should 
attempt to convert his nominal into anything like a real supremacy. From the 
Emperor nothing was derived by the British government ; and in return for the 
rescue of himself and family from a state of penury and degradation, and his 
support in comparative comfort and affluence under its protection, he is only 
required to continue to live peaceably, and to abandon all dreams of ancient 
grandeur . — ( Public MS. Documents, The Marquis Wellesley, Archibald Seton, Met’ 
^edfe, Franklin, Gladwin, Ferishta, Maurice, S^x. 8^'c. 8^c.) 

CuTTUB Minar. — A remarkable pillar, situated about 9 miles south and 1C 
west from Delhi. Its base is a polygon of 27 sides, and rises in a circular form. 
The exterior part is fluted into 27 semicircular and angular divisions. There are 4 
balconies in the height of the building. The first is at 90 feet, the second at 140, 



THE PROVINCE 


424 


[baghput. 


the third at 1 80, and the fourth at 203 feet. An irregular spiral staircase leads 
from the bottom to the summit of the minar, which is crowned with a majestic 
cupola of red granite. The entire height of the pillar is 242 feet. 

This monument appears ti) have been intended as a minaret to a stupendous 
mosque, which nc\ er was comjdcted. The tomb of Cuttub Shah, at whose ex- 
pense the minar is reported to have been erected, stands a few' hundred yards to 
the wc.stw'ard. Cuttub Shah ascended the Delhi throne A. D. 1205, and died 
in 1210, after a reign of only fi\ e years, and on his decease a stop was probably 
put to the building. We ha^e reason therefore to believe that' this pillar has 
stood above COO years. — ( Wunt, ^r.) 

Pri.wrj,. — This place is mentioned by Abul Fazel as marking the boundary 
where the Delhi province ceases, and that of Agra begins. It sta'nds in lat. 28* 
12' N. long. 77° 12' E. about 33 miles south from the city of Delhi. 

Balamoih'k. — This town and fortress is situated in lat. 28° 23' N. long. 77° 
10' E. about 21 miles south from the city of Delhi . — { PiihlicJlIS. Documents, S^c.) 

SoiixA. — A town in the Delhi province, 28 miles S. by W. from the city of 
Delhi. Lat. 28° 21' N. long. 70" .50' E. 

Rem akv ( Revarij. — This town is situated about 50 miles S. W. from Delhi, 
in lat. 28° 17' N. long. 70° 25 E. In the time of Abul Fazel it was the capital 
of a district, the revenues of w'hich were estimated at 298,921 rupees, and 
described by him as follows, “ Circar Rewary, containing 12 mahals ; measure, 
ment 4,155,01 1 begahs; seyurghal 739,208 dams. This circar furnishes 2,175 
cavalry and 14,000 infanty.” The pergunhah of Rew'ary w'as one of those given 
to the Bhurtpoor Raja in October 1803, but resumed in consequence of his sub- 
sequent treachery. In 1805, owing to the depredations it had sustained, it was 
not expected to yield above 1 40,000 rupees. Rew'ary is a considerable entrepot for 
the commerce carried on from the city and neighbourhood of Delhi to the south- 
westward, the intercourse is great and constant, and its security as a depot for 
valuables conduces greatly to the commerce and general prosperity of the fron- 


tier. The military cantonments are three miles distant from the tOWD, and 

of A/etca/fe, &cj 

ritories the re^^nTp ^ f i " t attached form part of the ter- 

I. “f 7''“'' o-iSned by the British government for the snp- 

rha^k^wa'-' of Delhi ; but the produce now is greatly 

prerdy Ali Merdan KhaZ 'to tllTofT''^.''*^ ’'““f 

■^rneuT <•-”> the fwUy of Shere Shnh, " 

‘ ' ' ' ■ ^ Lt'^28»V°N 7" DelW. 17 mihsa N. bom 

28° 66 N, long. 77* 7" £. 





PANiPUT.J OF DELHI. 4^ 

Beuxaver. — town in the Delhi province, 33 miles N. by E. from the city 
of Delhi. Lat. 29" 8' N. long. 77" 16' E. 

SiiAMLEE. — A town in the Delhi province, 63 miles N. from the city of Delhi. 
Lat. 29® 27' N. long. 77* 8' E. This is a place about two miles in circumference, 
and contains many handsome houses, with a large bazar, and the remains of a 
mint. The streets intersect each other at right angles, and have separate gates 
at their entrances, which are shut at night for the security of the inhabitants. — 

( G. Thomas, S^c.) 

V AyuvvT (Panipati). — This town is situated about 60 miles N. by W. from 
the city of Delhi, in lat. 29° 22' N. long. 76° 51' E. In its greatest extent it is 
about 4 miles in circumference, and was formerly surrounded by a brick wall, 
which partly remains. It was formerly a considerable emporium of commerce, 
but sntfered great detriment from the incessant troubles which for a century agi- 
tated the province. The imports are salt, grain, and cotton cloths ; the sur- 
rounding country produces and exports coarse sugar. 

At this place is the shrine of a Mahommedan saint of great repute, named 
Shereef ud Decn Abu Ali Cullinder, whose death happened in the 724th year of 
the Ilijera. To this shrme the present Emperor of Delhi, Acber the Second, was 
carried while young by the unfortunate Shah Allum, who consecrated on the 
spot a lock of liis hair to the saint interred below. This ceremony imposes the 
obligation of suffering the lock of hair to renvain untouched, until after the lapse 
of a certain portion of time it can be cut off on the very spot where it was ori- 
ginally selected for consecration. The consummation of this rite the Emperor is 
said to have much at heart, but as the pilgrimage would cause him to incur a 
great expense, and otherwise create considerable confusion, he has hitherto been 
persuaded to postpone its performance. 

Paniput is famous for having been the scene where two of the greatest battles 
ever fought in India took place, both decisive of the sway of Hindostan. The 
first was in the year 1525, between the army of Sultan Baber and that of the 
Patan Emperor of Delhi, Ibrahim Lodi, in which the latter was slain and his 
army totally discomfited. With him the Patan dynasty of Lodi terminated, and 
the Mogul one of Timour commenced. 

The second took place in 1761, between the combined Mahommedan army 
commanded by Ahmed Shah AbdalU, the sovereign of Cabul, and that of the 
Maharattas commanded by the Bhow.Sidasiva. The Mahommedan army con- 
sisted altogetiier of 42,000 horse and 38,000 foot, besides camds, and between 
70 and 80 pieces of cannon. Thene were the regular troops, bat the krc^gidars 
which eooompanted them were somedmea more nmnerons. The Donanies of 

VOL. 1. 3 1 



426 the province [kurnai. 

Cabul, who were the strength of the army, being about 29,000, were all men of 
great bodily vigour; their horses of the Turkish breed and very hardy. 

The regulars of the Maharatta army consisted of 55,000 horse and 15,000 foot, 
with 200 pieces of cannon, and camel pieces and rockets without number. Be- 
sides the regular troops there were 15,000 Pindaries (plunderers), and the camp 
followers may be estimated at four times the number of regulars. 

The armies continued in front of each other from the 26th of October 1760, to 
the 7 th of January 1761, during which interval many bloody skirmishes took 
place, which generally terminated in favour of the Durranies. At the last men- 
tioned period the Maharatta army being reduced to the greatest distress for the 
want of supplies, the Bhow determined to quit his entrenchments and give bat- 
tle. The conflict continued nearly equal from the morning until noon, about 
which time Biswass Row, the Peshwa’s son, a youth of seventeen, was mortally 
wounded, which appears to have decided the fate of the battle, as the Maharattas 
then fled in all directions, pursued by the victors, who gave no quarter in the heat 
of the pursuit. 

Of all descriptions of men, women, and children, there were said to have been 
500,000 in the Maharatta camp, of whom the greatest part were killed or taken 
prisoners, and of those who escaped from the field of battle, many were destroyed 
by the zemindars. About 40,000 prisoners were taken alive; those who fell 
into the hands of the Durranies were mostly murdered by them, alleging in jest 
as an excuse, that when they left their own country, their mothers, sisters, and 
wives desired, that when they defeated the unbelievers, they would kill a few of 
them on their account, that they might also possess a merit in the sight of the 
prophet. 

The commander in chief of the Maharattas, Sidasiva Bhow, was probably 
killed in tlie battle, but this fact was never to a certainty established. Many 
years afterwards, about 1779, a person appeared at Benares who said he was the 
Bhow, and some of the Maharattas acknowledged his claim, while others treated 
him as an impostor, which he probably was . — ( Asiatic Rucarcket, Feruhta, G. 
Thomas, Archibald Seton, ^c.) 

JvouR . — A town in the province of Delhi, situated in the vicinity of Paniput, 
and for some time possessed by the adventurer George Thomas. 

Kurn'al.— T his town is situated about 67 miles N. by W. from Delhi, in lat. 
29* 38' N. long. 76* 46' E. and in 1808 was, with the district attached to it, 
held by Mahommedee Khan ; but its productive powers have been greatly 
reduced since the total extinction of Ali Merdan Khan's canal, by which it was 
intersected and fertilized.— CZieKfriuifit WhUCt $sc,) 



ROMILCUND.] OF DELHI. 4^ 

Kunjpooba.—A town in 1808 belonging to Rehmut Khan, 73 miles N. from 
the city of Delhi Lat. 29" 41' N long. 76® 51' E. Indree is a large open town 
with a strong gurry, or native citadel ; Kunjpoora is smaller, but surrounded by 
a strong wall . — ( lAeutenant White, Sgc.) 

Secundra (Alexandria). — A town in the Delhi province, 31 miles S. E. from 
the city of Delhi. Lat. 28® 28' N. long. 77® 33' E. 

ROHILCUND. 

This territory, named in Sanscrit Kuttmr, comprehended that part of Hin- 
dostan situated east of the Ganges, between the 28th and 29th degrees of north 
latitude, and from 78® to 80* east longitude ; commencing in the vicinity of 
the Lolldong pass, at ihe foot of the hills through which the Ganges pene<- 
trates, it extended south eastvmrd to the town of Pillibeet. On the north 
it was bounded by the Sewalic and Kemaoon hills ; and on the south by the 
dominions of Oude. The principal rivers are the Ganges and the Ramgunga ; 
the latter traversing Rohilcund in nearly its whole extent, and uniting with the 
Ganges near Kanoje. The Goggra or Sarjou passes the north-east comer, .and 
there are besides many rivers issuing from the northern mountains, and contri- 
buting to its fertility, being distributed by means of canals and reservoirs : water 
is also found by digging a few feet under ground. Throughout its whole extent, 
the surface is flat, being part of the great plain reaching from the northern hills 
to the sea, through which flow the Ganges and its innumerable tributary streams. 
Three rivers, having their sources in the hills, intersect Khyraghur ; the Sarda, 
the Kuraal, and Couriallah, in all of which gold is found mixed with sand, and 
is collected by a particular caste of people. 

In the early periods of the Mogul empire, Rohilcund was a very flourishing 
country, and of great political importance. It then contained the cities of Sha- 
habad Shahjehanabad, Bareily, Bisowly, Budayoon, Owlah, Moradabad, and 
Sumbul, which last communicated its name to a great part of the district. 
During the reign of the Patan dynasty in Hindostan, many princes of the royal 
family kept their courts for a series of years in the city of Budayoon, where, as 
in many other parts of Rohilcund, are still to be seen the remains of magnifi- 
cent edifices, palaces, gardens, mosques, and mausoleums. 

TheRohillahs were originally a colony of the Ynsefzei Afghan tribe, but their 
constitution had nothing of the apparent democracy of the Afghan hordes. The 
chiefs were lords of the soil, the other Afghans their tenants, and generally their 
soldiers. This people migrated from the province of Cabul in Afghanistan 
about ttie beginning of the 18th century, and then consisted of several inde- 
pendent tribes, who, on pressing exigencies acted in concert, and were distin- 

3i2 



428 THE PROVINCE [roiiilcokd. 

guished by the steady hatred which subsisted between them and the Maharattas. 
They are a courageous hardy race, and one of the few Mahommedan tribes who 
exercise the profession of agriculture, as well as that of arms. Their high 
spirit and ferocious uncultivated dispositions, render them difficult to govern or 
discipline ; and in common with the other Afghan races, they have the reputa- 
tion of being crafty, treacherous, and sanguinary. In some European works, the 
term Rohillah has been applied to the Afghans, but this is erroneous, as it is a 
Punjabee word, meaning a hilly country, and only known to the Afghans 
through the medium of books written in Hindostan. 

About the year 1720, the Afghan chiefs, Bisharut Khan and Daood Khan, ac- 
companied by a band of their needy and adventurous countrymen, came to 
Hindostan in quest of military service. They were first entertained by Maclhoo 
Sah, the zemindar of Serowly, who, by robbery and predatory incursion, main- 
tained a large party of banditti. While plundering an adjacent village, Daood 
Khan captured a youth of the Jaut tribe, whom he converted to the Mahom- 
medan religion, named Ali Mahommed, and adopted to the prejudice of his 
other children. Daood Khan was succeeded as principal leader of the Rohillahs 
by Ali Mahommed, who, in consequence of the distracted state of Hindostan, 
soon established his power over the territory since named Rohilcund, although 
repeatedly brought to a low ebb by the Mogul armies from Delhi. Ali Ma- 
hommed died in 1748, and left six sons, but was succeeded in the chieftainship 
by Hafez Rehmut, whose authority, however, was constantly disputed by other 
leaders. In 1774, the combined forces of the Rohillahs were totally defeated 
by the British army at the battle of Cutterah, where Hafez Rehmut was slain; 
and with this event the Rohillah sway in Hindostan terminated, their country 
being transferred to the Oude government. 

From this period may be dated the decline of the agriculture, commerce, and 
manufactures of Rohilcund (excepting in the district of Rampoor, which remained 
under the management of Fyzoola Khan), and nowhere was the rapacity of the 
Nabob of Oude's government exercised with such baneful success. Some little 
trade, however, continued to be carried on for eight or nine years after the con- 
quest, chiefl^^ under the protection, and through the influence of the British 
troops then stationed in the province. These having been withdrawn in 1782 
and 1785, and the frontier left uncovered, a large body of Seiks crossed the 
Ganges at Tiggery ghaut, plundered Sumbul, Chandowsy, and some other 
towns, carrying off, unmolested, a cbtosiderable booty. This predatory incureion 
gave the coup-de-grace to the trade of Rohilcund, as thenceforward no man 
would venture his property in a country equally destitute of protection, from 
arbitrary exactions within, and plundering adventurers from without. 

By the conditions of the commercial treaty, ctmcluded between the East India 



OF DELHI. 


SOHILCUNZ).] 


429 


Company and the Nabob of Oude, in 1786, it was stipulated, that all European 
articles and goods, the produce of the Company’s provinces, might be conveyed 
into any part of the Oude dominions and sold, on paying certain duties ; but 
Rohilcund was excepted, and by the iniluende of a base and malignant policy, 
was excluded from any participation of the benefits that might have resulted 
from the treaty. In fact, the exorbitant and capricious duties levied on Euro- 
pean and Bengal commodities in Rohilcund, amounted nearly to a prohibition. 
Broad cloths, spices, silks, and other articles, nevertheless, made their way 
across the continent from Gujerat to the Hurdwar fairs ; and before the decline 
and extinction of external commerce, merchants were settled in the large towns 
of Bareily, Chandowsy, Moradabad, and Nujibabad; but they had found it 
necessary to suspend all commercial undertakings. While from these causes 
the resources of the Vizier’s portion of Rohilcund daily diminished, Fyzool? 
Khan, although he received the Rampoor jaghire in a flourishing state, by an uni- 
form and steady adherence to the system of his ancestors, nearly doubled his 
revenue, while the Oude section of the province was so exhausted, that it 
yielded only one-third of the amount realized prior to the conquest. 

The staple commercial articles in Rohilcund are cotton cloths and sugar, to 
which cotton, as a raw material, has recently been added. The first (with the 
exception of those for which advances are given by European traders) are usually 
unfit for the Europe market, being deficient in breadth, and of an inferior 
texture ; but the price is proportionally moderate. At the period of the cession 
it was calculated that 20,000 looms were worked in Rohilcund, and that cloths 
to the value of 30 lacks of rupees, were annually fabricated. In 1796, Almas 
Ali Khan, the eunuch, compelled the weavers to manufacture cloths for the 
Europe market, and oppressively reduced the price to one rupee per piece. In 
later times, cloth of this description has been fabricated for merchants resident 
at Niiggeena, Nujibabad, Moradabad, Reher, Cassipoor, Bareily, Shahjehan- 
poor, and Phillibeet. In remote times the cultivation of the sugar cane was 
carried on to a great extent; and as the article was deemed of a superior quality 
to that produced in any other part of Hindostan, the countries to the west and 
south were almost exclusively supplied from Rohilcund. In 1802, it still con- 
tinued an important traffic, the traders from the west purchasing it at Chan- 
dowsy, and those from the Deccan at Hatras in the Doab, to which mart it was 
transported from Rohilcund. A considerable amount of the land revenue was 
then paid from the sugar cultivation. The natives of the hills bordering on the 
northern frontier, as also the inhabitants of Lahore, Cashmere, Cabul, and Cand- 
char, take off sugar in considerable quantities. 

The articles of trade brought from the hills consist of borax, bees-wax, musk. 



430 THE PROVINCE [rohilcukd. 

gums, drugs of various kinds, cow tails, copper, and iron. The returns are 
made in white cloths, tobacco, and sugar. Formerly, the people of the distant 
hills used to bring their commodities to Almora, to which mart purchasers from 
the low countries resorted. The forests immediately at the base of the hills 
abound w'ith the tree which yields the kut; an article of general consumption 
along with the betel, and also used in dying. These hills also contain copper 
and iron, which the natives collect either on the surface or after very slight ex- 
cavations. 

As the manufacture of salt in Rohilcund is very inconsiderable in proportion 
to its consumption, and the article itself is of an inferior quality, this artificial 
necessary is largely imported, and forms one of the chief returns for the native 
productions exported. In 1802, this portion of Hindostan was mostly supplied 
with Sarabher salt, the produce of a salt lake in the province of Ajmeer, where it 
was collected in large quantities, and by being clandestinely smuggled into 
Benares and other parts of the Company's old provinces, considerably interfered 
with the government monopoly. The natives of Upper Hindostan are generally 
prejudiced against sea salt; which is, however, always greatly adulterated be- 
fore it reaches them. 

From Afzulghur to Khyraghur there arc extensive forests, and a great number 
of labourers find employment in the wood trade. Bamboos, sissoo, saul, toon, 
and various other trees abound ; and besides there are pine trees in many places, 
some of which are 90 feet in length, and if seasonably drained of the sap before 
being cut dowU, might prove suitable for masts. The wood cutters who fell the 
trees at the bottom of the hills, contract with the merchants to cut and float 
them down the rivers. From the bamboo is procured the banse locbun, which 
is much used by native doctors, and sells for nearly its weight in silver. 

The three hill articles of the greatest value, and of which the greatest quantities 
are purchased by the merchants from the low countries, are wax, borax, and 
kut; besides which, the hill natives also bring and sell at the ghauts or pa.sses, 
unrefined gold. In the Bareily district, as it was originally formed, there were 
14 ghauts or passes, through which the mountaineers descended with their com- 
modities, viz. Kheirghur, Poorunpoor, Sitny Pillibeet, Belahry, Nabobgunge, 
Nanai, Muttah, Cossipoor, Baugpoor, Rooderpoor, Jesspoor, GhUkeah. Reher, 
Afzulghur, and Zabetagunge. In 1802, there was but little opium cultivated, 
but the quality was excellent, and the soil was equal to the production of any 
quantity. Saltpetre might also be made, as there are a great number of Loo- 
neahs (the cMte who prepare it) in Rohilcund. A considerable number of 
elephants are caught below the hills, and during the government of Asoph ud 
Dowlah, a darogah was maintiuned at his expense, who caught a great number 
of them, and sent them to Lucknow. They abound mostly in the vicinity of 



iiOMiLCUKD.] OF DELHI. 431 

Pillibeei; and a fourth of the number caught is the government proportion ; but 
in 1802, the farm of the privilege of catching them, only produced 1800 rupees. 

From the researches of Mr. Lloyd it appears, that the whole province of Rohil* 
cund yielded to the Patan government a jumma of 8,457,000 rupees ; of which 
the present district of Bareily paid 4,311,000 rupees, and that of Moradabad 
4,146,000 rupees, and that on the conquest of the province in 1774 by Shuja ud 
Dowlah, the revenues of Moradabad immediately fell to 2,704,678 rupees, and 
continued to decrease under the Lucknow administration to 2,163,922, the 
jumma of the year 1801, in which the cession took place. Notwithstanding 
the reputation of the Rohillahs for turbulence, the tranquillity of this province 
remained undisturbed from the cession in 1801, until A. D. 1815. In corro- 
boration of this it is only necessary to observe, that at the time of the removal 
of the Nabob of Oude’s officers, when disturbances were most to be expected, 
a considerable reduction of the army had just taken place, and great anxiety 
and suspense necessarily pervaded all classes while the regulations were in pro- 
gress at Lucknow, yet no opposition to the firm establishment of the British 
authority throughout the province occurred, and the whole of the lands were 
leased for three years, with the greatest facility, and at a progressively increasing 
rent. In 1815, the Patan population about Bareily hoisted the green standard 
of revolt, and nearly overpowered a small detachment consisting of 3 companies 
of sepoys, under Captain Boscawen, by their prodigious numbers. The attack 
was so sudden, that they penetrated the square before the fourth side could be 
formed, but were literally blown out again with vast slaughter, by the decisive 
measure of turning one of the guns at the angles inward, loaded with grape. 

At present this extensive province is subdivided into the separate jurisdictions 
of Bareily, Moradabad, and Shahjehanpoor; under which heads, respectively, 
further particulars will be found. From the trade carried on, and the wealth 
accumulated, in the small territory of Rampoor, prior to the death of Fyzoofa 
Khan, some idea may be formed of the productive powers of Rohilcund ; but to 
moderate over sanguine expectations it must be recollected, that a considerable 
proportion of the most, industrious inhabitants had quitted the country before it 
came under the British sway. For a long period of time also preceding that 
event, a total stagnation of trade had prevailed in Rohilcund, the trading capital 
having been either dissipated or transferred to a more genial government. The 
Mahommedans of Rohilcund had long been accustomed to an idle and licentious 
military life, yet the example of this small territory (the Rampoor jaghire) 
proved, that the habits of idleness prevailing among this class of people are nut 
insurmountable, and that they may be brought to employ themUlves both in 



432 THE PROVINCE [district of 

manufactures and in the pursuits of agriculture . — (Sir Henry Wdksky, t. Uayi^ 
Franklin, J^orster, S^c. ^c.) 

Rasiguxga River. — ^This river has its source in the mountains of Kemaoon; 
about 25 miles N. W. from the town of Almora, from whence it flows in a south 
easterly direction through the province of Rohilcund, with a very winding 
stream, until it falls into the Ganges, not far from Kanoje, having performed a 
course of about 300 miles including the windings, and received the accession of 
many tributary small rivers. 

THE DISTRICT OF BAREILY. 

This subdivision of the Delhi province is situated principally between the 
28th and 29th degrees of north latitude. To the north it is bounded by the 
Kemaoon hills ; on the south by the Oude reserved territories, and the districts 
of Furruckabad and Alighur ; on the east it has the Nabob’s reserved territories ; 
and on the west the Moradabad, Alighur, and Furruckabad districts. When the 
institutes of Acber were compiled by Abul Fazel in 1582, it was comprehended 
in the circar of Budayoon, and described under that name ; but the original 
appellation of a great part of the country prior to the Rohillah conquest was 
Kuthair. Subsequent to this latter event it was incorporated with the province 
of Rohilcund, of which it formed the largest portion, and under which head 
some of its geographical features have been detailed. 

The surface of this district is in general level, and well watered by many 
small rivers, besides the Ganges which bounds it on the west. To the north of 
Rampoor the Kosila river is navigable during the rains, and serves to float down 
large timber. In the neighbourhood of Acberabad the country is well culti- 
vated, and cloth of a good quality is manufactured. Around Cossipoor is 
moderately cultivated with sugar canes and grain, but in advancing towards 
Ghilkiya much jungle is passed. Chilkiya is a considerable mart to which the 
natives of the Kumaoon hills resort to exchange their goods for the produce of 
the plains. In 1803, the chief supplies brought from below to this market were 
chintzes, gudjoes, salt, coarse sugar, cotton goods, coarse cutlery, cheap trin- 
kets, coral, and beads. The goods from above were then mostly transported 
on loaded goats, by which mode they were conveyed for very great distances, 
even from Tibet. 

Since the introduction of the manufacture of saltpetre in 177ft, by the Nabob 
of Oude, the manufacture of home made salt materially decreased, and latterly 
did not exceed 4000 maunds. The Kurrah salt is extracted during the nitre 
making process, and when skilfully made, is white and well orystalUxed. 



BARtti.T.] OF I)£LHI. 453 

Prior to the ceseion of ^ohUcund, in 1801, about 430,000 maunds of foreign 
salt were imported, of which about 180,000 maunds were subsequently 
exported, viz. 

86.000 maunds to Mahomdy, Khyrabad, and the northern parts of the 

Nabob of Oude's dominions, including Baraitche and Gorucpoor. 

66.000 maunds for Chandowsy, which was then the grand salt mart of Rohil- 

cund, transported chiefly in carts. 

30.000 maunds to Serinagur, or Gurwal, and the Kumaoon hills, upon 

bullocks and bufllaloes, by the roads of Nujibabad, Cossipoor, Bel- 

haree, and Pillibeet. 

180.000 maunds- 

The exports from Bareily to the Maharatta countiy were sugar, jaggry, and 
rice, besides a few articles from the northern hills, such as borax, peeplamool, 
huldee, and kut ; the whole amounting to about 6 lacks of rupees. Before the 
cession of Rohilcund to the British government, in addition to the articles already 
mentioned, there were imported from the bordering hills slave g^ls, 42 sorts of 
drugs, and from ten to twenty elephants, which last were caught in the jungles, 
were they continue in great numbers, but of an inferior quality. 

After the conquest of Rohilcund in 1774, by the British troops for Shuja ud 
Dowlah, it rapidly declined and became almost a waste from the misgovern- 
ment it suffered. Betwixt Anopsheher and Bareily extensive wastes, formerly 
under cultivation, are still to be seen. These are covered with long grass, which 
inriio Jbot season becomes so parched as to be easily inflamed, and abounds with 
foxes jadkals, hogs, hares, and every sort of game, which range these wide 
plains unmolested- In summer, notwithstanding its northern latitude, the 
heat of Bareily is intense ; but during the winter months, when the wind blows 
from the northern mountains, the thermometer falls below 30 degrees, and water 
in the tents fieezes. There is nothing peculiar in the vegetable productions, 
except that Bareily is noted for a species of nee of an excellent flavour named 
the basmati (pregnant with perfume), which is greatly superior to the finest sort 
of what is called Patna rice. 

The district of Bareily, including Shahjehanpoor, containa several large and 
populous towns, the chief of which are the two capitals, Bareily and Shahjehan- 
poor, Pillibeet, Chandowsy, and Budayoon, and the whole country formerly 
abounded with a warlike race of Mahommedans, ready to join any leader. Sonoe 
thousands of this description served under Holcar, and many with their country- 
ONin Ameer Khan. They are' disaffected to the British government, not because 
it is Unjust or oppressive, but because there is no employment for them, and 

von. I. 3 k 



434 THE PROVINCE [distkict Of 

they are left inactive without distinction and without sjibslstence. Few of these 
people enlist in the British service, because they cannot bring themselves to 
subihit to the strictness of European discipline. These Patans are in general 
reduced to much distress, they are idle, and with difficulty apply to any profes* 
sion but that of arms. Among them the influence of a rebellious or disafiected 
chief over his followers is very great, and is not founded on the popularity or 
supposed justice of his cause, and very little on the probability of his success. 
Although he be a mere robber and his situation quite desperate, still his people 
will adhere to him to the last, and never betray or forsake him. The Rohillahs 
are a tall handsome race of men, and when compared with the more southern 
inhabitants of India are white and well featured. There are here few Hindoo 
temples of any magnitude, the zeal of the Mahommedans having been too intole- 
rant, and their possession of the country too effectual to permit their existence. 
The two sects probably approach nearer to an equality in respect to numbers, 
than in most other districts ; but no approximation to an actual enumeration of 
the total population has ever been made, although it is known to be very con* 
siderable, especially in the vicinity of the capital. 

In November, 1801, this extensive and fertile temtory was received in cession 
from the Nabob of Oude, on which event it was partitioned into judicial subdi- 
visions, and European functionaries appointed for the administration of justice 
and collection of the revenue. In 1808, the jumma, or land assessment, only 
amounted to 1,492,640, but so rapid had been the improvement, that in 1813 
the lands were leased for a five years’-settlement on the following terms, exclu- 
sive of the customs and duties on spirituous liquors. 

For the fusly, or financial year 1220(1813-14) .... 2,071,879 

Ditto, 1221 2,249,678 

Ditto, 1222 2,342,670 

Ditto, 1223 2,398,762 

Ditto, 1224 2,442,622 

The jumma of 1813 of the districts of Bareily and Shahjehanpoor, collectively, 
was only 3,267,686 rupees; but would have amounted to 34 lacks and a half, had 
not the land renters purposely reduced their cultivation, with the view of com- 
pelling to unfavourable terms, and had not the entire district been of so enormods 
a magnitude, as to disable the collector from checking fiuch a combination. The 
collection of so large a revenue, from more than 12,000 landholders and renters, 
was found to be more than one collector was able to superintend, without greftt 
detruneut to the interests of government, in a country where a permanent settle- 
ment had not been introduced. In the Bareily division, the collection of the 
revenue had always, from local causes, been extremdy difficult, nor could it be 



BAEsiLT.] OF DELHI. 435 

sttpposedt that the persons now paying 36 lacks could easily forget, that a few 
years before they paid no more than 25 ; although they actually did pay more 
than the largest sum, in different shapes, while subject to the Nabob of Oude. 

In consequence of the enormous revenue and local peculiarities, it became 
necessary to relieve the collector from part of his multifarious duties, by dividing 
the Bareily district into two collectorships ; the eastern station having its head 
quarters at Shahjehanpoor, and to comprehend the pergunnahs of Premnagur, 
Mohrabad, Meerapoor, Kutna, Tilhar, Jelalpoor, Resulpoor,.Negohee, Marrowee, 
Shahjehanpoor, Burragong, Powanie, Khotar, Poorunpoor, Khyreeghur, Oojhan- 
nee, Kote Salbahaun, and Budayoon. The rest of the divisions to remain 
attached to Bareily. A large increase of revenue may hereafter be looked for in 
the eastern collectorship, as Poorunpoor, Khryreeghur, Khotar, and Powanie, 
contain immense tracts of waste land, formerly highly productive and populous, 
but now desolate, owing to the oppression of the native governments, and to 
other local causes ; but they are now once more emerging from their state of 
desolation, and may soon be expected to yield a great accession of agricultural 
productions. 

The realization of the revenue in the ceded and conquered districts, and the 
establishment of the sovereign’s just rights to what has been alienated by fraud, 
require peculiar qualifications in the European revenue officer to whom these 
functions are delegated. In the lower provinces, where the permanent settle- 
ment, while it bars all further investigation of resources, has given a value 
to landed property which can always be procured by bringing it to the hammer, 
and where the long continued mutations of ownerships have facilitated transfers, 
the recovery of an arrear is simply a mechanical process. But in the ceded 
provinces, where the ovmership neither can nor ought to be taken from the 
ancient proprietor in default, where purchasers are seldom to be found on any, 
and never on adequate terms, the whole security of the public revenue rests on 
the personal activity and decision of the collector, and in his having recourse to 
prompt measures at the critical moment, when alone they can prove effectual. 
In this region no punctuality of payment for any length of time under an efficient 
cdilector, will secure the revenue under a successor who is not so. 

If the state of Bareily and Moradabad be compared with that of any district 
situated in the Doab, with reference to the number and nature of offences com- 
tnitted in the course of any time since the establishment of tjhe present system in 
1807, it will appear that crimes of a heinous nature, such as gang and highway 
robbery, have been much more frequent in the Rohilcund districts, various 
causes having combined to render the operations of the police less efficacious, 

3k2 



436 the province [DiiTMCT oir 

and its duties more difficult, in the latter than in the former. Roldlcund ia 
exposed on every side, except the west, to the depredations of banditti, either 
from the territories of his excellency the Nabob of Oude, or from forests whidh 
extend along the northern and eastern frontier ; in addition to which it is liable 
to similar attacks from the independent jaghire of Rampoor. In Rohilcund 
there is little internal trade except that of grain, and scarcely any foreign inter* 
course, there being actually hardly any other occupation than that of husbandry, 
which has not a rapid influence in effecting any improvement on the pre-existing 
manners. The consequence is, that the inhabitants of Rohilcund are more 
behind in civilization, and in a knowledge of the peaceful arts, than any other 
class of British subjects in Upper Hindustan. 

There are few offences that do not occur in Bareily, but there is a great 
difference both with respect to the prevalence of crimes, and the nature of those 
committed in particular parts of the jurisdiction. In the southern portion of the 
territory situated between the Ganges and Ramgunga, the most common crimes 
of magnitude are affrays and robbenes. The first generally originate in disputes 
between the inhabitants of different pergunnahs ; the latter are in most instances 
committed by the inhabitants of Sendee and Pallee, two adjacent pergunnahs in 
the Oude dominions, the natives of which are notorious and habitual plunderers, 
considering their incursions as a regular source of legitimate emolument. The 
existence of these depredators, and of the trade they pursued, were perfectly well 
known to the Nabob, but his excellency appeared to be either not able, or not 
disposed to punish the depredators, and thereby became himself suspected of 
participation. The number of prisoners under sentence of the court of circuit 
and liable to hard labour, w‘ithin the Bareily division, at the commencement of 
1815, was 1700, and it was suggested by Mr. Ker, the judge of circuit, that 
they should be employed either in opening the Delhi canal, or in deepening the 
Cali nullah, so as to render it navigable throughout the year. In 1815 an insur- 
rection took place among the prisoners confined at Bareily, of whom 83 escaped, 
and 15 were killed. Of the guard, the jemadar and another was killed, and five 
wounded, as was also Mr. Bosanquet, the assistant magistrate. The average 
number of prisoners under confinement throughout the year 1813-14 was 472. 
Although several of the districts subordinate to the Bareily court of circuit 
appear to be undergoing a gradual, though slow improvement, yet there is 
evidence enough to shew, that the police as it stands at present has by no means 
attained a systematic efficiency. The vast extent of some of the districts, the 
comparative thinness of the population, the intermixture of independent jagbires^ 
the very great length of frontier bordering on foreign states, and the madequate^ 



B4RE1LT.} OP DELHI. 437 

miimb^ ot judicial officers, may be considered among the principal causes of 
greater progress towards improvement not having been made. — (Deane, Gctt, 
Guthrie, Temont, Sir H. Strachey, 5th Report, 4’c. ^'c.) 

Bareilt (BaraU.) — ^This town stands on the banks of the united streams of 
the Jooah and Lunkra, about 42 miles N. W. of the Ganges. Lat. 28° 23' N. 
long. 79® 16' E. The fort is a great irregular mass of building, equally destitute 
of strength or elegance, and without bastions for guns ; but the town is a large 
and thriving place, and has been supposed by one of the circuit judges to equal 
Furruckabad in population, which is known to contain 67,000 inhabitants. The 
lands in the vicinity of Bareily are not elevated more than eight feet above the 
Ramgunga; while the mountain streams by which the district is intersected lessen 
the expense and labour of cultivation, and by their annual inundations fertilize 
the soil. The principal manufacture is that of brazen water pots, which are 
made here in great numbers. The amount paid into the Bareily treasury in 
1612, on account of duues received at the custom housC, was 45,000 rupees, and 
in 1813 was 165,000 rupees. 

Bareily was the capital of Hafez Rehmut, a Rohillah chief, slain at the battle of 
Cutterah, and here he lies interred. In 1774, this town was added along with 
the district to the dominion of Shuja ud Dowlah, then Nabob of Oude, and in 
1801 transferred to the British, when it was made the head quarters of a civil 
establishment for the administration of justice and collection of the revenue ; and 
also of a court of circuit and appeal, to which the following districts are subor- 
dinate; 1, Caunpoor; 2, Furruckabad; 3, Etaweh; 4, Agra; 5, Alighur; 
6, South Saharunpoor or Merut; 7, North Saharunpoor; 8, Moradabad; 
9, Bareily. Travelling distance from Delhi 142 miles; from Calcutta by Moor- 
shedabad 910 ; by Birboom 805 miles ; from Lucknow 156 miles . — ( Ker, A 
Roes, Hardwicke, Franklin, Remell, S^c.) 

OwLAH (Aula, Jirst }. — This decayed town stands about 16 miles N. W. from 
the town of Bareily, and has the Nawaub nullah stream on the south-western 
side. On the summit of an eminence is a brick fort, erected about 75 years ago 
by AU Mahommed, the founder of the Rohillah state, who held his court here. In 
the environs, which during the Oude government were waste, are to be found 
the ruins of palaces, mosques, and gardens. — (Franklin, Sgc.) 

SHAiaGUR,r-A town, in the Bareily district, 20 miles N. ftom the town of 
Bareily. Lat. 28* 20' N. long. 79° 45' E. . 

SHAHJEHAi^rpooR. — ^To this town a fiscal subdivision of the enormous district 
of Bareily it attached, but the same judge administers justice and superintends 
the police of both. It is situated in lat. 27* 62' N. long. 79° 48' E. 60 miles 
S. E. from Ba>eily, and is asserted by a gentleman eminently qualified to decide,. 



THE PROVINCE 


438 


[DUTRICT Of 


to be more wealthy than Bareily, and nearly as populous, so that probably an 
allowance of 50,000 inhabitants is within the mark. In the schools here each 
boy is provided with a black board like a slate, upon which he writes the letters 
with a chalk pencil. While he writes the characters, he at the time 
acquires their names, and the power of each when joined in syllables, and thus 
reading and writing are attained by one operation. 

In 1813, the board of commissioners in the conquered and ceded provinces 
made a settlement of the land revenue of the Bareily and Shahjehanpoor districts 
for five years, on the following terms for the latter, which in A. D. 1808 3 rielded 
only 812,059 rupees : — 


For the fusly, or financial year 1220 (1813-14) . 

Ditto, 1221 

Ditto, 1222 

Ditto, 1223 

Ditto, 1224 


1,191,477 

1,241,462 

1,296,519 

1,317,044 

1,335,265 


The great and rapid augmentation thus made of the available resources in this 
and the adjacent district of Bareily, might, under ordinary circumstances, have 
excited apprehensions as to their stability ; but the success and facility with 
>vhich the revenues were actually realized during the years 1813 and 1814, are 
calculated to dissipate any apprehensions which might have been entertained on 
this subject. In April, 1815, however, the tranquillity of Shahjehanpoor was 
disturbed by two marauders, named Madhoo Singh and Oodhu Sing, who, at the 
head of a considerable body of followers, plundered and burned two villages, 
where they murdered a resident European who was) engaged in commercial 
transactions. They subsequently advanced to Shahjehanpoor, and attacked ^e 
collector’s treasury, but were frustrated by the joint magistrate. — (Deofie, 
3fS. Documents, 8^'C. ^c. S^c.) 

Kootar. — A town in the Delhi province, 55 miles E. S. E. from Bareily. 
Lat. 28“ 12' N. long. 80“ 10' E. 

CuTTERAH. — ^This placc stands in lat. 28“ 3' N. long. 79“ 32' E, about 28 
miles S. E. from Bareily, and has now the appearance of a large and ruinous 
village, very thinly inhabited in proportion to its size. In 1774, a decisive 
battle was fought here, in which Shuja ud Dowlah, with the assistance of the 
British forces, defeated the Rohillahs, and afterwards subdued Rohilcund as fiuf 
north as the Lolldong pass. Hafez Rehmut, the principal leader of the Rohillahs, 
was slain in this action, and that people annihilated as an independent state, 
although they still form a considerable portion of the Rohilcund populatioa.'-*- 
(Tmmmt, ^c. 4*c. ^c.) 



BAREXitO OF DELHI. 439 

Jeialabao.— A town in the Bareily district, 40 miles S. by W. from Bareily. 
Lat. 27® 45' N. long. 79® 28' E. 

OssoHEET. — town in the Delhi province, district of Bareily, 40 miles S. by 
W. from the town of Bareily. Lat. 27' 49' N. long. 79° 6' E. 

Bud A YOON (Badavan ). — ^When Abul Fazel wrote in 1582, this was a town of 
considerable celebrity, and the Capital of a district, which he describes as follows; 
"Circar Budayoon, containing 13 mahals; measurement 8,093,850 begahs; 
revenue 34,717,063 dams; seyurghal 457,181 dams. This circar furnishes 
2,850 cavalry and 26,700 infantry.” It was first conquered by the Wahom- 
medans in A. D. 1203, when it was a flourishing place, but it has long ceased to 
be of any importance, or to attract attention in any other respect than its 
antiquity. It stands in lat. 28° 4' N. long. 28° 58' E. 29 miles S. W. from 
Bareily. 

PooRUNPOOR. — A town in the Delhi province, 48 miles E. by N. from 
Bareily. Lat, 28° 32' N. long. 80° 2' E. 

Rooderpoor (Budrapura ). — A town in the Bareily district, 41 miles north 
from the town of Bareily. Lat. 28° 58' N. long. 79° 22' E. 

PiLLiBEET (Pilibhit ). — Duting the Rohillah government, Pillibeet was an 
emporium of commerce, and was in atly enlarged by Hafez Rehmut, who built 
a spacious pettah four miles in circumference. After the transfer of Rohilcund to 
the Nabob of Oude, its commerce was nearly annihilated, but it has since con- 
siderably revived, the staple articles being saul, sisso and fir timbers, sugars 
and coarse cloths ; and from the Kumaoon hills, borax, drugs, pitch, wax, and 
honey are imported. Lat. 28° 42' N. long. 79° 42' E. 32 miles N. E. from 
Bareily. 

Kelpoohy ( Kelapuri ), — This town is situated in the northern quarter of the 
Bareily district approaching the hills, and formerly had a small district attached 
to it, composed of land naturally fertile, but from misgovernment thinly inha- 
bited, and much covered with jungle and extensive forests. In the time of Abul 
Fazel, it appears to have been comprehended in the circar, or division of the 
Delhi province, named Sumblpoor. The town, which is of small size and 
little note, stands in lat. 28° 58' N. long. 79" 35' E. about 45 miles N. by E. from 
Bareily. 

Bissolie (Visavali ). — ^This town stands in lat. 28° 19' N. long. 78° 46' E. 31 
miles west from Bareily, and during the early period of the Mogul empire was 
in a very flourishing condition, which continued under the Rohillahs, but is in 
comparison now waste and desolated. Several of the family of the Rohillah 
founder, Ali Mahommed, are buried here. 

Chundowsy.— B efore the cession of Rohilcund to the British government in 



440 THE PROVINCE [disteict Of 

1801, this was the grand salt mart of the province. Tlie town is situated in lat. 
28“ 26' N. long. 78® 38' E. 40 miles W. by N. from Bareily. 

Husseinpoor (Hosainpur).—A. town in the Delhi province, 66 miles £. from 
tJic city* of Delhi, Lat. 28° 44' N. long. 78° 9' E. 

ScMBUL (Sambhala ). — A town in the Delhi province, 21 miles N. W. from 
Bareily. Lat. 28° 37' N. long. 78° 29' E. 

Ao(iNr..'v. — A town in the district of Bareily, 26 miles W, by S. from the town 
of BareilJ^ Lat. 28° 19' N. long. 79° 2' E. 

KnviiEEouuu. — The pergunnah of Khyreeghur is separated from the rest of 
the Bareily district, and indeed from the British territories generally, by the 
Kali branch of the river Goggra. The town stands in lat. 28° 19' N. long 80° 
47' E. about 100 miles N. from Lucknow. 

This small division forms the extreme north-eastern corner of the Bareily dis- 
trict, from which, as mentioned above, it is separated by the Goggra, and from 
the first range of mountains by the undefined possessions of certain hill chiefs, 
over whom the Nepaulcse government claim, and occasionally exercise, authority. 
The w'hole face of the country, from the mountains to the Goggra, is covered with 
saul forest, interspersed with patches of cultivation The nominal revenue 
assessed on this pergunnah is only 6000 rupees ; but small as it is, it has never 
been realized, while the actual disbursements of the revenue establishment 
exceed the amount of this imaginary revenue. The actual assets which Ram 
Dial Singh, the zemindar, derives from this territory are only 3000 rupees, 
obtained in part by granting permission for the pasturage of cattle, and partly 
by levying unauthorized duties on the trade passing through his country to the 
hills. In 1813, when the circumstances of this tract were investigated, the 
senior judge of circuit thought the pergunnah was of no value, biit Dr. Ruther- 
ford,. who had visited it, was of a different opinion, and thought it possessed 
resources capable of yielding a large increase of revenue, if adequately protected 
and secured from predatory incursions. The climate is admitted to be unhealthy, 
and only to be supported by the indigenous natives, proving fatal to strangers 
for the greater part of the year. 

Owing to its remote and secluded position, ihe authority of the magistrate 
throughout the pergunnah is little more than nominal, and his information of the 
occurrences of crimes so defective, that no reports on the subject had been 
received during the whole year ISll/althoug^i we may venture to presume a 
total cessation of crime had no more taken place in Kyreeghur than in any other 
part of the province. In consequence of these untowaid circumstances, the 
Bengal govemjnent in 1812 contemplated the exchetage of this remote, and to 
them unprofitable district, for a small slip of the Nabob of Oude’s dominions, 
near to where the Ramgunga falls into the Ganges, and application was accord- 



OF DELHI. 


MOBADABAD.j 


441 


in^ly made at Lucknow; but his excellency was then found impracticable. 
Subsequent, however, to the conclusion of the Nepaul war, it was accepted by 
that potentate along with the Nepaulese Terriani bordering his dominionr, in 
extinction of one of the crores of rupees which he had lent to the British govern- 
ment from the treasures of his deceased father Saadet Ali. — ( Guthrk, T. Brookes, 
ifc. ^c. 8sc.) 


THE DISTRICT OF MORADABAD. 

The western portion of Rohilcimd forms the district of Moradabad, which is 
situated between the 28th and 30th degrees of north latitude. To the north it 
is separated from the province of Serinagur, or Gurwal, by a range of mountains, 
through which rushes the Ganges at Hurdwar ; on the south it is bounded by the 
district of Bareily and Alighur ; to the east it has the Kumaoon mountains and 
district of Bareily ; and to the west it is separated by the Ganges from the dis- 
tricts of North and South Saharunpoor. In 1808, Moradabad, exclusive of the 
woods and forests contiguous to the hills, was estimated to contain 5,727,381 
large begahs, distributed in the following proportions, viz. 

Begahs. 

Land under cultivation 1,710,443 

Lands uncultivated but fit for tillage, viz. . Chuachar . 44,055 

Bunjur . 1,317,627 

Dhaka and Jungle 731,745 

2,093,437 


Land not fit for tillage 727,860 

Laud stated to be held rent free 1,195,640 


Total . . 5,727,381 

The above computation, however, having been made from native documents, 
falls short of the truth by about 700,000 begahs. The total surfiice, according 
to Colonel Colebfoke’s new map, may be estimated at 6,800,000 begahs. Even 
the tract under the hills is capable of cultivation, and various spots are in fiwjt 
cultivated ; the quantity also above stated as unfit for tillage is of great utility as 
pasture. 

The pergunnahs of Cossipoor, Rooderpoor, Thakoordwara, Reher, Nujibabad> 
Seercote, AIzulghur, .and Surkurrah, as also the northern parts of Nuggeenah, 
contain extensive tracts of rich land which are not cultivated. One obstacle to 
their complete im provement is the insalubrity of the climate, owing to the vicinity 
of the hilla ; another is the absence of population. The soil is naturally moist, 
and in most places the tilled lands, if it is required, can be irrigated; dry weath^, 
therefiare, in these tracts, does not injure the crops, but the reverse, as it permits 

VOL. I. 3 L 



44-2 THE PROVINCE [district of 

the fields to be ploughed and sown to greater advantage. If a greater quantity 
of this description of land were cultivated, the supply of grain would be greater 
in times of general scarcity, and the collections made, during seasons of drought 
elsewhere, would be greater. The pergunnahs of Amraha, Buckwan, Neurale, 
Russoolpoor, Behjoy, Bissowlee, Sattasee, Islamnagur, Daranagur, Chandpoor, 
Azimpoor, Bashtah, Naktour, and Rajpoorah, have a mixed sandy soil, the. pro- 
duce of which is consequently very uncertain. Of the remaining pergunnahs no 
particular specification respecting the soil can be made ; those bordering on the 
Ganges are productive, but liable to inundation. 

The most valuable articles of agricultural produce are sugar and cotton. The 
planting of the sugar cane has progressively increased since 1803, although in 
the succeeding year it receivea a chec^ from the establishment of the salt 
monopoly. The demand for Moradabad sugar is usually great, both in the Doab 
and across the Jumna, and the culture of the plant is well understood all over 
Rohilcund. The quality of the sugar, especially about Kerutpoor and Nuggeenah, 
nearly equals that ot the Havannah. In 1808, the price of chenee, or fine sugar, 
here was only 8 rupees per maund. Wheat is another considerable article, and 
its exportation constant, being in great demand to the westward, much is also 
consumed in the district, but it does not form the main part of the food of the 
peasantry, which is principally derived from joar, bajerah, and some small crops. 
Agricultural knowledge, however, not being general, pasturage is frequently 
resorted to where tillage would be much more profitable ; farm tattle and imple- 
ments are both scarce and of an inferior description. The population of the 
Moradabad district was in 1808 estimated by Mr. Lloyd as follows, viz. 

Inhabitants. 

6 principal cities from 50,000 to 20,000 inhabitants . . 180,000 


10 large towns at 7000 70,000 

10 smaller at 4000 40,000 

9430 villages at 120 each 1,131,000 


Total 1,421,000 


The principal towns are Moradabad, Rampoor, Nujibabad, Daranagui', Ndggee- 
nah, and Sumbul. 

It has been ascertained that during the Patan sway the province they occupied, 
and which received the name of RohilCtand, was in a highly flourishing state; 
the falling ofi* may be dated from the Maharatta invasion, i^om the desolating 
effects of which, rendered permanent by' other censes, the Moradabad district 
has not yet recovered. The invasion of these plunderers was so long protracted, 
as to cause a revolution in the {^culture of the country, besides occasioning the 



OF DELHI. 


VORA.DABAD.] 


443 


destruction of a large portion of the inhabitants tmd of their dwellings; and after 
the annemtion of the prorktce to Oude, the revenues being administered in the 
worst tnenner possible, the cnltiTators and farmers were in many parts in a con' 
stant state of insubordination. It was transferred to the British government in 
1601, but was not formed into a separate jurisdiction until 1804, since which 
period the progressive increase of the revenue has been more general and con- 
siderable than in any of the ceded districts, except Bareily. In 1 808, the amount 
of jumma paid for lands farmed to individuals was 1,624,655 rupees, while that 
paid by proprietors was only 821,976 rupees. This state of land occupation 
appears to have arisen from the assumption of the proprietary oghts by the 
Rohillahs, ana more especially by Fyzoola Khan, in the territories that remained 
with that people after Aeir defeat in 1774, The tenures of a great proportion of 
the rent-free lands, amounting to the enormous quantity of 1,195,640 begahs, 
appear to be invalid, and to have originated in frauds committed on the public 
revenue, especially during the administration of the last souoahdar, from the 
♦inw» the intended cession was generally known, until the period of his actually 
delivering over charge of the country. 

Amount of the jumma, or land assessment to the revenue, for the financial 


year 1215 (1808-9) 2,397,599 

Ditto, 1216 2,424,910 

Ditto, 1217 2,479,617 

Ditto, 1218 2,498,672 

Ditto, 1219 2,546,599 


The large proportion (rf capable hnd which still remains to be brought into 
cultivation, promises a considerable augnientation of the future revenue, which 
would probably be further increiased by a revision of the tenures on which the 
rent-free lands, amounting to one-fifth of the whole, are held. Even at present, 
the distinct produces more than is necessary for its own consumption, a con- 
siderable exportation in consequence takes place. 

Prior to 1809, this district was overrun with formidable bands of gang robbers, 
the leaders of which were more entitled to the name of rebels than robbers, their 
strength and means of resistance keeping the ordinary police establishments 
wholly at bay. Many of the gangs had subsisted in the country long prior to 
the cession of Rohilcund by the Nabob of Oude, and the command regularly 
descended as a matter of property to the next legitimate heir. At this perioa one 
mounted gang was so effective as to be able to cut its way through a detachment 
of regular troops, conunanded by European officers, which had been sent to ap- 
prehend them. These depredators, fronalong |aactice, possessed a perfect know- 
ledge of the intricate jungles, and of the numerous fords of the Ganges, which 

3 L 2 



THE PROVINCE 


444 


[district or 


enabled them to cross and return whenever they wished, and die inhabitants were 
so intimidated by the ferocity of their revenge, that they could not be brought to 
act against them. One gang could muster 400 meij, mostly Jauts, and it is well 
known with what alacrity a force of this description, or any force intent on 
plunder, may be augmented in Hindostan. By the great exertions of the British 
magistrates, especially of Mr. Oswald, these bands, with their leaders, had prior 
to 1814 been nearly exterminated. 

These banditti consist entirely of the Jaut and Aheer castes, who are generally 
husbandmen or common labourers ; of Mewaties, and other persons calling them- 
selves sepoys; and of the poorer classes of landholders, who have become robbers 
lor the sake of plunder, from being related to leaders of gangs, or in consequence 
of their zemindary concerns having gone to ruin. Between the Jaut and the 
Goojer castes there exists an animosity of such duration, that its origin cannot 
be discovered, but it appears to be utterly implacable, descending from genera* 
tion to generation. A Jaut leader of banditti is consequently sure to find refuge 
and succour from the whole tribe, while he restrains his depredations and cruelties 
to the property and persons of their antagonists. 

T\i.e\>o\\ce of Motadabad labours under considerable disadvantage from the 
contiguity of the independent jaghire of Rampoor, within the limits of which rob- 
bers and other public offenders can evade the pursuit- of justice. The Mewaty and 
Aheer tribes, also, dwelling on the north-western border, had long been accustomed 
to predatory descents on the plains, which they ravaged, pillaging the villages 
and driving off the cattle. Military force had often been employed against them, 
but, owing to the insalubrity of the jungles and other impediments, always without 
effect, until Mr. Seton tried the plan of conciliating the chiefs by assigning them 
lands and money, and employing them and their adherents to protect the country 
they bad been habituated to plunder. At first they accepted 
TSlther reluctantly, but gradually became attached, by 
district was relieved, at a very amnll ez 
annoyed the inhabitants, and injured 
prisoners under confinement throughouy 
the number was still greater, the 
Btrenous exertions of die ma^*^ 

(C, Lloi/d, OmaH, &r JS. (Mn 


Moradabad.' 


a mint, the Moradabad rupeei 




MOEADABAD.] OF DELHI. 445 

Bblaspoob.— A towB in the district of Moradabad, 38 miles N. from Bareily. 
Lat. 28“ 66' N. long. 79“ 9' E. 

Rampoob (Ramapitra).—Tihsi residence and ja^hire of a RohiUah Nabob, 
where the Pushtoo or Afghan language is still much spoken, and the genuine 
A%han manners and customs retained. The town stands on the hanks of the 
Kosilla, in lat. 28“ 50' N. long. 78“ 64' E. 39 miles N. N. W. from Bareily. 

This town and district, at the peace of LoUdong in 1774, were secured to 
F3rzoolB Khan, a RohiUah chief, at which time the revenue was valued at 30 lacks 
of rupees per annum. _ During the lifetime of Fyzoola Khan, Rampoor was very 
prosperous, and at his death comprehended a space four miles in circumference, 
surrounded by a thick bamboo hedge, within which were mud fortifications, and 
contained above 100,000 inhabitants. On the death of Fyzoola Khan in 1794, 
his eldest son, Mahommed Ali, succeeded ; but was soon afterwards assassinated 
by his second son, Gholaum Mahommed, who seized the throne. A British force 
was marched to expel the usurper, which was attacked by the RohiUah army \ 
few miles in advance of Bareily ; but they were repulsed, after a severe actioi 
in which the former had 600, and 14 officers, killed and wounded. Gholauir 
Mahommed surrendered soon after; and the accumulated treasures of Fyzoola 
Kham, aunounting to 332,000 gold mohurs (£607,000), were deUvered up to Asopl 
ud Dowlah,who presented the British army with eleven lacks of rupees (£127,000) 
Possession was also taken of the Rampoor district for the government of Oude, 
but a jaghire, or estate, was reserved for Ahmed Ali Khan, a minor, the grandsoi 
of Fyzoola Khan, of which the town of Rampoor was part, and the revenue 1C 
latcks of rupees per annum. 

By die treaty of 1796 between the Nabob of Oude and Ahmed Ali Khan oi 
Ebunpoof, under the guarantee of the Company, the last mentioned was ^titled 
» be put in possessioa of his jaghire on attaining the age of twenty-one ; but in 
he interval the jstghire was placed under a regency, and managed by Nusser 
lUah Khan as regent until the 24th of November, 1810, when his death happened, 
lis ion Ke&yet Ullah Khan wished to continue as chief mant^r, but the 
iCDgel govenunent thought the young Nabob entitled to the chaise of his own 
now that he had attained a mature age. That affairs had been greatly 
^Mnaged was evident from the fact, that at the close of a regency of 17 years^ 
jpi^ which the annual surplus of the revenue, deducting the public charges, had 
|!®ded five lacks rupees, the treasury was found to be exhausted, and the 
ppi and stipendiaries in arrears to an amount excee^g 10 and a half lacks of 
Km. This enormous defalcation could not but be highly discreditable to the 
||tt» aa the levenues must have been dther distipatedor embezzled ; but as he 



446 THE PROVINCE [dmteici or 

died in very embarrassed circumstances, the suspicion of bis having 
and secreted a treasure was probably unfounded. 

The revenue of the Rampoor jaghire for ♦i''> 

cial year 1215 (1808) was 1,069,077 rupees. 

while the charges amounted to . . . 1,128,697 

Leaving a deficiency of 59,620 


In 1812 and 1813, repeated insurrections took place, in consequence of the un< 
popularity of Hakim Gholaum Hossein Khan, prime minister to Ahmed Ali 
Khan, the Nabob of Rampoor, this individual having become obnoxious to tb« 
proud and turbulent inhabitants of that jaghire. The Beugal government, how- 
ever, refused to interfere, as their authoritative interposition would have implied 
a relationship of superiority and controul, which it did not claim, and of which 
it had always avoided even the appearance. This abstinence, however, was 
not likely to be of long duration, for the nabob having wholly addicted himself 
to voluptuous dissipation, and his minister Gholaum Hossein to the accumula- 
tion of wealth, the resources of his country in 1816 were rapidly diminishing, 
and the misery of the people increasing; and in proportion to their poverty they 
became formidable to their peaceable neighbours within the British jurisdictions. 
— (Public MS. Documents, Franklin, Pennell, Elphinstone, ^'c, S^c.) 

Nl'ggeenah.— A town, containing 18,000 inhabitants, in the district of Mo- 
radabad, situated about 47 miles N. N. W. from the town of Moradabad, in lat. 
29“ 27' N. long. 78“ 20' E, 

Daranagur.— A town in the district of Moradabad, 74 miles N.E. from 
Delhi. Lat. 29“ 17' N. long. 78“ E. 

Chandpoor.— A town in tne district of Moradabad, 73 miles N. E. from 
Delhi. Lat. 29“ N. long. 78“ 7' E. 

Nujibabad (Najibabad). — This town was built byNujib ud Dowlah, with 
the view of attracting the commerce between Cashmere and Hindostan, and ia 
situated 95 miles N. E. from Delhi, in lat. 29“ 37' N. long. 78“ 12' E. In length 
it is about six furlongs, with some regular broad streets enclosed by barriers at 
different distances, and forming distinct bazars. In the neighbourhood are the 
remains of many considerable buildings, a trafiSc of some extent was carried 
on here in wood, bamboos, copper, and tincal, brought from the hills. It was 
formerly also the centre of a trade from Lahore, Cabul, and Cashmere, to the 
east and south-east of Hindostan. Nujib ud Dowlah, the founder lies buried 
here, in a grave without ornament of any kind. The rf the town is 

low, and the surrounding country swampy.-fHarAwcite, fowter, Uc. ) 

LoLLDONo.-At this ghaut, or pass, the province of Defti In septmted by a 



KOftTH iAHAKUKPOOE.] OF DELHI. 447 

riviilet, from that of Sermagur, or Gurwal, about 10 miles S. S. E. from Hurd- 
war. Lat. 29^ 50' N. long. 78® 13' E. The country from Nujibabad to this 
place is chiefly a waste, overrun with low wood, and ill supplied with water, 
there being none in the space from Ramnagur to the neighbourhood of Lolldong. 
The road from hence northward, is by a N. W. course through the mountains. 
From hence to the Ganges the country forms a chain of close woody mountains, 
ctmtaining a few miserable hamlets, and abounding with elephants, which are 
not to be found on the wfest side of the Jumna. In 1774, after the total defeat 
.sustained by the Rohillahs at Cutterah, Fyzoola Khan, with the remains of their 
army, retreated to this pass, and was pursued by the British to the entrance, where 
ultimately a treaty of peace and amity was concluded. — (Forster, Rennell, S^c.) 

Reher. — ^This town stands in lat. 29° 21' N. long. 78° 39' E. about 35 mile.? 
north from Moradabad, and had formerly a small pergunnah attached to it, of 
which a considerable portion remains waste and covered with jungle. The word 
Reher designates a salt earth, and is probably descriptive of the soil as being 
either nitrous or saline. 

SuBBULGHUB. — A town in the district of Moradabad, situated to the east of 
the Ganges, about 18 miles south from Hurdwar. Lat. 29° 42' N. long. 78° 8'E. 
( Hardwicke, 

THE DISTRICT OF NORTH SAHARUNPOOR. 

The district of Saharunpoor is intersected by the 30th degree of north lati- 
tude. To the north it is bounded by the chain of hills through which issue the 
Ganges and Jumna; to the south by the district of Merut, or South Saharun- 
poor ; to the east it is separated from Moradabad by the Ganges ; and on the 
west from the territories of protected Seik chieftains by the Jumna. By Abul 
Fazel, in 1582, it is described as follows: “ Circar Saharunpoor, containing 36 
mahals, measurement 3,530,370 begahs ; jrevenue 87,839,359 dams ; seyurghal 
4,991,485 dams. This circar furnishes 3955 cavalry, and 22,280 infantry.” 

Although placed between two large rivers, the Ganges and the Jumna, which 
here run nearly parallel, at the distance of about 55 miles, this country is not 
subject to the periodical inundation which prevails in Bengal and the more 
south-eastern provinces. The surface of the country, however, is a continued 
flat to the base of the hills, where thej rise abruptly, marking the northern 
limits of the immense plain through which the Ganges flows to the sea. The 
soil is fertile, and wheh under suitable cultivation, very productive of grain, 
sugar, cotton, indigo, and tobacco. Until the ravages it sustained during the 
turbulent rmgns of Aurengzebe’s successors, Saharunpoor was esteemed one of 
the most productive territories in the empire ; but firom that monarch s death in 



448 the province [oiSTEiCT ot 

1707, until its acquisition by the British in 1803, it acarcely had an interral of 
rest from external invasion or internal dissention. At present the principal 
towns are Saharunpoor, the capital, Hurdwar, Ambeta, and Deobund. For the 
greater part of the year the climate is temperate, and in the winter even cold ; 
but during the height of the summer the heat is intense, and the country 
burned up. 

The territory originally possessed by Nujib ud Dowlah, an Afghan chief, ap* 
pointed prime minister to Shah Allum by Ahmed Abdalli of Cabul, compre- 
hended the district of Saharunpoor, that of Sirhind, and some tracts of country 
round Delhi. He was succeeded by his son, Zabeta Khan, who, dying in 1785, 
was succeeded by the execrable Gholaum Caudir Khan, who, in 1788, put out 
the eyes of the unfortunate Emperor Shah Allum with a dagger, and tortured, 
starved to death, and massacred, many of the royal family. A few months 
subsequent, he was himself put to death with torture, by Madhajee Sindia, who 
conquered and appropriated the greater part of his dominions. 

In 1803, Saharunpoor, with all the other Maharatta conquests in the Doab of 
the Ganges and Jumna, were acquired by the British government, ,and in 1804, 
were separated into two divisions ; the northern and the southern, named also 
the Merut district. The local circumstances of this division are on the whole 
favourable to the maintenance of an efficient police, the jurisdiction of the ma- 
gistrate not being too extensive. 

The amount of the jumma, or land assessment to the revenue, in the fusly, or 


financial year 1215 (1808-9) was 1,419,314 rupees. 

1216 (1809) 1,640,455 

1217 (1810) 1,762,535 

1218 (1811) 1,893,743 


This sum total was greatly augmented in 1813 by the death of Raja Dial Singh, 
when the large estates held by him on a tenure for life, at the reduced rent of 
111,597 rupees, were resumed, and re-let for a five years’ lease on an average of 
550,000/ rupees per annum, being an increase of more than 4 lacks of rupees. 
The large tract of country comprehended within Dial Singh’s l^kse, 4nd its being 
a frontier station, rendered the settlement after his death of considerable im- 
portance ; the inhabitwts being comparatively very little acquainted with tibe 
British government, or the principles of its administration. The free enjoyment 
of landed property, as it exists in Bengal, never having been introduced by the 
renters, was either not understood, or viewed through a ounfused medium. The 
consequence was, that on the resumption some disturbances ensued, caused by 
the tribe or caste of thefxoojers, who murdered several of the village accountants ; 
but were afterwards compelled to fly the province by a small party of military. 



OF DELHI. 


NORTH SAHARUNPOOR.] 


449 


although they mustered 600 horse, and about as many foot, armed in various 
ways. Another considerable addition to the revenue accrued during the same 
year by the devolution of the lands, on his death, held by Row Adjet Singh for 
28,000 rupees per annum, which were immediately re-let for 3 years. 


For 1813 85,215 rupees. 

1814 90,395 

1815 90,495 


Besides the above sources of augmentation, in this district, as well as in Goruc- 
poor, considerable tracts of waste land exist, which, if excluded from the 
operation of the permanent settlement, might, at a future though distant period, 
be made available to the revenue ; and notwithstanding the substantial benefits 
which in ordinary cases arise from the permanency of the landed assessment, 
the principle may admit of exceptions, in cases where the improvements have 
been effected, not by the exertions of individuals, but by the care and at the 
expense of the government. The exception will also apply where land in an 
actual state of cultivation bears but a very inconsiderable proportion to that in 
a state of nature. A case of the first description is exemplified in Saharunpoor, 
it having been long in contemplation to open Zabeta Khan s canal, by which it 
is expected that considerable tracts of land, now waste, may be rendered 
productive, when of course government would be justified in profiting from a 
source, which had been created by its means. In all other contingencies, the 
.stability of the public revenue, and its punctual collection, tend greatly to the 
general anielioration of the country and of the inhabitants ; and its influence is 
felt in many branche.s of the administration, with which, to a superficial view, 
they would not ajipear to have any connection. It has also the effect of gra- 
dually leading diflerent classes of society in the upper provinces from lawless 
pursuits, and directing their exertions to the acquisitions resulting fron^peacefnl 
industry.— -{'P«/>//c ^JS. Documaits, Scott, I'rmildin, Deane, Sir E. Cokbrooke, 

Sahahcxpook.— The capital of the district and residence of the judge and 
magistrate, and civil establishment for the collection of the revenue. It is 
situated about 90 miles N. by E. from the city of Delhi, in lat. 29° 56' N. 
long. 77° 26' E. The average number of prisoners confined in the district jail 
throughout the year 1813-14, was 268. In 1816, the magistrates of Alighur, 
Menu, and Moradalad, were directed to send 100 convicts from each station 
to work on the fortress then erecting at Saharunpoor. 

Hurdwar ( Hariilwar , the Gate of Hari, or Vishnu). A town and celebrated 
place of Hindoo pilgrimage, situated on the west side of the Ganges, where it 
issues into the plains of Hindostan from the northern hills. Lat. 29 67 N. 

VOL. 1 . 3 m 



THE PROVINCE 


450 


[district of 


long. 78® 9' E. 110 miles N. E. from Delhi. Hurdwar, or Haridwara, is also 
called Gangadwara (dwara means a door, gate or passage). In the Scsmda 
and other Purans it is written Haridwara, which marks a different etymology 
from Hari (Vishnu), not from Hara (Siva or Mahadeva). 

The tbwn of Hurdwar is very inconsiderable, having only one street about 15 
feet in breadth, and one furlong and a half in length. The Ganges, after forcing 
its way tlirough an extensive tract of mountainous country, here first enters 
the plains. Great numbers are led hither as much from commercial as religious 
motives, and through this channel the most important places in the Doab, Delhi, 
and Lucknow, are supplied with the productions of the northern and western 
countries. The principal articles brought for sale are horses, mules, camels, a 
species of tobacco (called caccar), antimony, assafoetida, dried fruits, such as 
apricots, figs, prunes, raisins, almonds, pistachio nuts, and pomegranates, from 
Cabul, Oandahar, Mooltan, and the Punjab; shawls, dootas, and pattoos, from 
Cashmere and Amritsir. 

Sjiotted turbans, looking glasses, toys, and various manufactures in brass and 
ivory from Jeypoor ; shields from Rohilcund, Lucknow, and Silhet ; bows and 
arrows from Mooltan and the Doab ; rock salt from Lahore ; baftas and piece 
goods from Rahn, .a large city in the Punjab. The Marwar country supplies a 
great many camels, and a species of flannel called loi. From the British pro- 
vinces are brought Kharwa muslins, mushroo (or sarsnet), coco nuts, and woollen 
cloths. Of the latter a few bales are sent on account of the Company, but the 
sale is very inconsiderable, and the coarsest only meet with a market. Here 
are also to be seen some Dutch and Venetian coins. 

The northern merchants who visit the fair travel in large caravans, and the 
cattle brought for sale are used also for the conveyance of merchandize. The 
north-western caravans generally assemble at Amritsir about the end of February, 
and pursue the route through the Seik country. On the road they are much 
infested by freebooters, who frequently carry off stragglers. Those who come 
merely for bathing arrive in the morning, and after performing their ablutions 
depart in the evening, or on the following day. At the two annual fairs it is 
supposed from 2 to 300,000 are collected; once in 12 years, when particular 
religious ceremonies are observed, the number is computed to be almost a 
million; and in April 1809, they were estimated at two millions. In 1808, 
such large bodies of armed men passed through the district of North Saharun- 
poor from the Seik country, bound to. Hurdwar, that the envoy at Lahore was 
directed to remonstrate with Raj Runjeet Singh of Lahore, on the impropriety 
of permitting and perhaps encouraging Uiem to enter the British territories with- 
out any previous application to the officers of government. During the temporary 



KOBTH SAHARUNPOOB.] OF DELHI. 451 

Maharatta sway, a kind of poll tax and duties on cattle were levied ; but all now 
is free, without impost or molestation, which considerably detnlcts from the 
merit of the pilgrimage. 

The horses and cattle are dispersed indiscriminately all over the fair, held in 
the bed of the river, which at this period is nearly dry. The most conspicuous 
persons are the Fakeers, of whom there are several sects ; but the principal ones 
are the Gossains, or Sanyassies, the Bairaggies, the Joggies, and the Udassies. 
The 4 sects are again subdivided and branched out to a great variety. The most 
numerous are the Gossains, who, during the Maharatta government, were suffi- 
ciently numerous to dispute the authority of the place, and not only collected 
duties on their own account, but regulated the police during the fair. 

The next powerful sect are the Bairaggies ; but from the year 1760, until the 
Company obtained possession of the Doab, this caste was debarred from the 
pilgrimage; and although the sway of the Gossains be over, they still occupy the 
best stations at the fair. Many of these profess a total disregard for worldly 
concerns, and appear in a complete state of nature, but among them are many 
men of considerable property, who assume only the semblance of the devotee, 
being in other respects well provided with the comforts and conveniencies of 
life. Some of them follow the military profession, but the greater part are 
engaged in commercial or agricultural pursuits. 

The Gossains, or Sanyassies of the west of India, are the worshippers of Siva 
or Mahadeva, and have taken vows of celibacy, and are distinguished by a 
wrapper of cloth dyed with red ochre. Those of Bengal are worshippers of 
Vishnu, and married. The term is a corruption of Goswami, lord of the bull, an 
appellation of Siva. The Bairaggies are religious mendicants, who, as their 
name implies, are supposed to be exempted from all human passions. They are 
disciples of Vishnu, and are distinguished by two stripes of yellow ochre, or 
sandal, on the forehead, and a string of Tulasi beads round the neck.> 

The Udassies are followers of Nanock Shah, the founder of the Seik sect, and 
are known by a conical cap with a fringe. 

The Joggies are votaries of Siva, and have a longitudinal slit in the cartilage 
of the ear. Another custom prevails among the Gossains and Joggies, which is 
uncommon among other Hindoos, that of burying their dead. All tlrese castes 
engage in husbandry and commerce, but the profession of arms is peculiar to the 
Gossains, or Sanyassies. Some of them never shave, but allow the hair of their 
head to grow to an enormous length, binding it round their forehead in small 
tresses like a turban. 

No particular ceremony is used in bathing, which consists merely of simple 
immersion. The depth at the proper season is only four feet, ami both sexes 

3 M 2 



4o^ THE PROVINCE [district of 

plunge in indiscriminately. Those who are rigidly pious are introduced by a 
couple of Brahmins, who, having dipped the penitent in the holy stream, recon- 
duct him to the shore. The period of ablution is that of the sun’s entering Aries, 
which, according to a Hindoo computation, happens 20 days later than the 
vernal eqpinox. Every 12th year, when Jupiter is in Aquarius at the time of 
the sun’s entering Aries, the concourse of people is greatly augmented. 

At the foot of the pass into the mountains there was formerly a Gorkha post, 
belonging to Nepaul, to which slaves were brought down from the hills and 
exposed for sale. Many hundreds of these poor wretches, of both sexes, from 
3 to 30 years of age, were formerly imported from all parts of the interior of the 
hills and sold; the prices were from 10 to 150 rupees. The average price of 
camels from Lahore is 75 rupees, and common horses from 250 to 300 rupees. 
The merchants never mention viva voce, the price of their cattle, but having 
thrown a cloth over their hands, they conduct the bargain by touching the 
different joints of the fingers, to prevent the by-standers from gaining informa- 
tion. Owing to the precautions taken by the British government the fairs have 
lately ended at Hurdwar without bloodshed, to the astonishment of the vast 
multitude, who were before accustomed to associate the idea of bloodshed and 
murder with that of the fair at Hurdwar. 

Travelling distance from Calcutta by Moorshedabad, 1080 miles; by Birboom 
975 miles; from Delhi 117 miles; from Lucknow 311 miles. — (Raper, Hard- 
wicke, Co/ebrooke, Wth Register, Rennell, d^'c.S^c.) 

THE DISTRICT OF MERUT (or South Saharunpoor). 

This judicial subdivision of the Saharunpoor province is situated about the 
29th degree of north latitude. To the north it is bounded by the district of 
North Saharunpoor; on the south by that of Alighur ; td the east it has the dis- 
trict of Moradabad; and on the west, the territories assigned for the maintenance 
of the imperial family, and the domains of various petty Seik chiefs. This 
jurisdiction is of recent formation and has no separate revenue establishment. 
In 1813, the arrangements for an improved system of police were much impeded 
by local circumstances, such as the extent of the surrounding jungle near the 
town, the military cantonments, and the vicinity of the Begum Somroo's terri- 
tories at Seerdhuna, which, although within the limits of the district, are by 
treaty exempted from the jurisdiction of the civil power. The distance from 
Merut to Alighur is 83 measured miles, through a country covered with short 
jungle, inhabited mostly by Goojurs. 

Another obstacle originated from the hereditary feuds between the Jaut and 
Goojur castes of cultivators, who, like other tribes in a similar stage of civilize- 


OF DELHI. 


MERUT.] 


455 


tion, consider themselves pledged to support individuals of their own fraternity, 
right or wrong, by perjury, rapine, and murder. On this principle, if a robbery 
be committed within a Jaut village, a Goojur will swear that he saw the head 
Jaut of the village perpetrate the crime, although the Jaut thus accused was then 
100 miles distant from the spot, and vice versa, if the offence took place within 
the limits of a Goojur village, a Jaut will with the same efiProntery impeach 
the head Goojur. Some of the latter possess tracts of land approaching the 
size of principalities. In 1814, the zemindary of Nyne Singh extended 40 miles 
from north to south by 20 from east to west, comprehending 349 villages, 
assessed at a fixed revenue of only 49,000 rupees, together with eight tax-free 
villages. The principal towns are Merut,- Seerdhuna, Kutoulee, and Hustina- 
poor, but none of them contain a numerous population, or carry on considerable 
commerce, which indeed the unsettled state of the country tended to prevent. 
In 1813, the state of the police in Merut was such as to require increased 
exertions on the part of the magistrate, and particular attention on that of the 
government. Crimes of a heinous nature had become of more frequent occur- 
rence, especially highway robbery, and but a very small proportion of the 
offenders, owing to the facilities of escape, had been brought to justice. With 
a view to its permanent improvement. Raja Nyne Singh was subsequently 
divested of the powers of police within his own estate, into which the general 
system of jurisprudence was introduced under certain modifications. Between 
the 1st of July, 1813, and the 30th of June, 1814, the crimes reported to the 
magistrate, as having been committed within the limits of that zemindary, were 
117 in number; viz. 6 murders, 15 highway robberies by footpads, 2 cases of 
wounding, 1 of arson, 37 burglaries, and 49 thefts without wounding. In 1813, 
the average number of prisoners in confinement throughout the year was 403.— 
fJTc;*, Blunt, ^c.) 

Merut. — This town is situated about 39 miles N. E. from Delhi, in lat. 28“ 
58' N. long. 77“ 38' E. It must have been a place of some note among the 
Hindoos prior to the Mahommedan invasion, as it is mentioned among the first 
conquests eftected by Mahmood of Ghizni, A. D. 1018. Subsequently, in 1240, 
it is said to have resisted the array of Turmacheri \ Khan, a descendant of Gengis 
Khan, but in 1399 was taken and destroyed by Timour. On the departure 
of this conqueror it was rebuilt, and devolved to the British government in 
1803, along with the rest of the distx'ict. In 1809, on account of its geographical 
position, it was selected as a principal military station in the upper provinces, 
and the seat of a court of justice. In 1812, the sum paid into the Merut treasury, 
for duties received at the custom-house amounted to 307,700 rupees, and in 
1813, to 376,000 rupees. 



454 THE PROVINCE [merut. 

Booruaxa. — A town in the Delhi province, 45 miles N. from the city of 
Delhi. Lat. 29° 19' N. long. 77° IG' E. 

Seerduuxa. — ^The chief town of the celebrated Somroo Begum, is situated 
about miles N. N. E. from Delhi, in lat. 29° 12' N. long. 77° 31' E. This is 
the capital of a small principality 20 miles long by 12 in breadth, which with 
the town was assigned by Nujiff Khan to Somroo, and on his death, in 1776, 
was delivered over to his widow, the Begum Somroo, on condition of her keep- 
ing up a force of three battalions of infantry. The soil produces grain of all 
sorts, cotton, sugar, and tobacco; and during the jvinter season the air is cooled 
by breezes from the northern mountains, which are from hence visible. While it 
existed as an independent state, there were here a good arsenal and foundry forj 
cannon, which have long gone to decay. 

Somroo’s real name was Walter Reinihard, bom of obscure parents in the ' 
electorate of Treves, from whence he entered early into the French service, 
taking the name of Summer, which the natives of Hindostan pronounced 
Somroo. He came afterwards to Bengal, and entered a Swiss corps in Calcutta, 
from which in 18 days he deserted and fled to the upper provinces, where he 
served for some time as a private trooper in the cavalry of Sefdar Jung, the 
father of Shuja ud Dowlah. This service he also quitted, and, after wandering 
about for some time, at length entered the service of Gregory, an Armenian, 
then high in favour with Cossim Ali, the Nabob of Bengal. In this station, in 
1763, he massacred the English captives at Patna. He afterwards deserted 
Cossim Ali, and successively served Shuja ud Dowlah, the Jaut Raja Jowahir 
Singh, the . Raja of Jeypoor; and again the Jaut Raja, whom he quitted once 
more for Nujiff Khan, in whose service he died in 1776. His corps of infantry 
was continued after his death in the name of his son, and a favourite concubine 
named Zeibul Nissa Begum, but better known in Hindostan by the designation 
of Somroo Begum. 

In 1798, this lady was 45 years of age, and still continues extant. She is of 
small stature and fair complexion, and frequently admits to her table the higher 
ranks of the European officers, where they are waited on by female attendants, 
mostly Christians. In other respects she exacts from her subjects and attendants 
a most rigid conformity to the manners and customs of Hindostan, and never 
herself appears in public. When the tide of conquest brought her small princi- 
pality, in 1803, within the British sway, she managed with such address, that by 
the conditions of the treaty her territorres were exempted from the jurisdiction of 
the civil power, to the great obstruction of all executive measures of police. Her 
property in ready money, which is considerable, is mostly invested in the Com* 
pany*s funds, and for her place of residence she usually selects Delhi, where she 




HUBRIANNA.] OF DELHI. 455 

is protected by the British power, and much esteemed by the Emperor, from 
whom in 1808 it appeared she had improperly obtained certain grants of land in 
the Assigned Territories, in favour of Mr.Dyer, the husband of her grand daughter. 
This clandestine proceeding, and act of assumed sovereignty on the part of the 
King of Delhi, being discovered, measures were taken to eifect the annulment of 
all such grants, in themselves illegal, and to prevent a repetition of them. Her 
conduct in the internal management of her estate was noticed by the magistrate 
so late as 1816, as being highly commendable, and it is still eontinued exempted 
from the jurisdiction of the British civil and criminal courts.— ('.Vco//, I'ra/iUiii, 
Pubiic MS. Documents, Kcr, ^‘c.J 

Ht'STiNAPOoiifo/' Hastinaudgra ). — ^The sup})Osed site of a famous and ancient 
city, much celebrated in the Hindoo mythological poems, 59 miles N. E. from 
the city of Delhi. Lat. 29° 9' N. long. 77“ 55' E. Hastinanagara is about 20 
miles S. W. from Daranagur, on a branch of the Ganges, formerly the bed of 
that river. There remains only a small place of worship. The extensive site of 
this ancient city is entirely covered with large ant hills, which has induced the 
inhabitants of the adjacent country to suppose, that it had been overturned or 
destroyed by the termites. — (Wilfot'd, i^c.) 

Buhxdsiiejih. — A town in the Delhi province, 41 miles S. E. from the city 
of Delhi. Lat. 28° 25' X. long. 77° 43' E. 


HURRIANNA. 

A large subdivision of the Delhi province, situated principally between the 
28th and 29th degrees of north latitude. To the north it is bounded by the 
Bhatty country, and the domains of numerous Seik chieftains ; on the south by 
the Shekawutty country, the pergunnah of Narnoul and the Assigned Territories ; 
to the east it has the Seik chiefs and the Assigned Territories ; and on the west 
the Bhatty and Bicanere countries, and the sandy deserts of Ajmeer. Although 
situated on the verge of the desert, it is celebrated for its verdure (probably by 
comparison) from which the name is dori\od, Ilurya, in llindostany signifying 
green. In the reign of Acber this district was comprehended in the circar ot 
Uissar Firozeh, and from the number of large and populous towns it then con- 
tained, must have been in a very superior state of police and cultivation to what 
it exhibited when it first came under the British domination. It is also occa- 
sionally named, but it does not appear why, the Lesser Baloochistan. 

The country known by the general name of Hurrianna includes the pergunnahs 
of Hansi, Hissar, Mohim, Tosham, Barwallah, Bhchul, Beerec, Rotuk, Agroha, 
and Jemaulpoor, and, excepting the northern and eastern part of the last men- 



THE PROVINCE 


450 


[hurrianna. 


tioned division, is an extensive plain, free from jungle, and remarkable for the 
de])ili to be penetrated under the surface before water can be reached, and the 
further west,' the more this difficulty increases. 

Depth of the water from the surface at various places. 

, Rotuk ... 70 feet Mundahill . . 109 feet 

Miideena . . 100 Hansi . . . 120 

Mohim ... 90 Hissar . . . 136 

Almost all the villages have small shallow lakes containing water for the inhabi* 
tants and cattle throughout the year, but the cultivation is entirely dependent on 
the seasons, there being at present no artificial means of irrigation, and the wells 
too deep to sup])ly the requisite quantity. Sultan Feroze brought the waters of! 
the Jumna to Hissar by a canal, which, during its continuance in good order, \ 
fertilized the country, but it has long been choked up and nearly effaced. ' 

The route from the Punjab through Hurrianna is understood to have been 
formerly a channel of considerable trade between Persia, Cabul, Candahar, 
and Cashmere, and the southern provinces of India. Even now the open road 
through the Jeypoor country is not impracticable for troops by the way of Hansi, 
although ineligible on account of the aridity of the soil, and difficulty of pro- 
curing water except during the rains. The only roads of communication be- 
tween the south of Hindostan and the Seik territories, are through the country of 
the Slacherry Raja by the way of Rewary ; through the centre of the Baraitche 
Patans by the way of Nuonde, Canound, Dadree, Mohim, and Rotuk; and 
through the northern part of Jeypoor and the Shekawutty country by the way of 
Hansi. But at a short distance to the northward of Dadree, a road branches off 
to Hansi, which may therefore be considered as a fourth route for the passage of 
an army between the northern and southern regions of Hindostan. The deserts 
to the west of Hurrianna are understood to present insurmountable obstacles to 
the passage of troops. The possession of this country therefore by the British 
government, or by a friendly power, is of material importance, and a military 
post established at Hansi, communicating with Delhi and Rewary, would be 
sufficient to establish an impregnable barrier between the Seik country and the 
south of Hindostan. 

The chief towns of Hurrianna are Hansi, Hissar, venerable for their antiquity, 
Rotuk, and Bhowanny ; but it contains also a number of large villages, where 
herds of cattle are pastured, and in the vicinity of which lions are said to be 
sometimes discovered. Rotuk is one- of the best cultivated and least turbulent 
of these pergunnahs, and is said to have yielded M. Perron 600,000 rupees, 
although he never established any regular authority in this country. The 



HURRIAKVA.] OF DELHI. 


457 


Assessment of Hurrianna, prior to the British conquest, is said to have been 
as follows : — 


Hansi . . 

Hissar 

Mohim 

Tosham . 

Barwallah 

Futtehabad 

Rotuk . . 


135,860 

100,997 

123,965 

26,713 

28,445 

29,609 

268,919 


714,508 

Hie imports consist chiefly of matchlocks, swords, coarse white cloths, salt, 
sugar, and a small quantity of rice and spices. The exports are horses, camels, 
bullocks, and ghee. The eastern portion of the country is inhabited mostly bj 
Jauts, and the western by Rungurs, which is an appellation given to such of th( 
Rajpoot tribes as have embraced the Mahommedan religion. Both tribes arc 
ferocious and uncivilized, and prior to British coercion were in a state oi un- 
ceasing hostility village with village. 

During the flourishing periods of the Mogul sovereigns, this district was o' 
great value and importance, and usually considered as the personal appendagt 
of the heir apparent to the throne ; but after the dissolution of that empire, i 
had never in fact been subjected to any regular government, and although nomi- 
nally forming part of Sindia’s former possessions, and transferred to the British 
by the treaty of Suijee Anjengaum, the authority of neither had ever been sub- 
stantially established. The solicitude of the supreme government to dispose of 
a large portion of its territorial acquisitions west of the Jumna, in a manner 
consistent with the security of that frontier, afforded an opportunity of com- 
bining with the accomplishment of that object a remuneration for the higher 
class of chieftains, who had distinguished themselves in the British cause. The 
Hurri anna provmce in particular was a most inconvenient possession, since inde- 
pendent of the political considerations which suggested the expediency of relin- 
quishing the territories most distant from the Jumna, the regulation, or rather the 
subjection, of that province, would have required the active employment of a 
large body of troops. 

The Nabob Bhumboo Khan was the son of the late Zabeta Khan, and brother 
to the atrocious Gholaum Caudir. At the commencement of the war with Sindia 
and the Nagpoor Raja, he joined the British forces with a body of troops, and 
on the peace a large extent of country was granted to him, the revenue of which, 
in I8ft5, was estimated at three lacks of rupees; but from the burden of this 
splendid present he soon begged most earnestly to be relieved. The very cir- 

roh. I. 8 X 



458 THE PROVINCE [hubeianna. 

cumstances that rendered the relinquishment of the province peculiarly desirable, 
opposed a material obstacle to the disposal of it, and Hurrianna was successively 
accepted or abandoned in whole or in part as jaghire, by the Nabob Bhumboo 
Khan above-mentioned, by Ahmed Buksh Khan, and by the Seik chieftains 
Bhaug Singh and Bhye Laul Singh. The difficulties which so many chiefs found 
insurmotintable, arose from the martial and refractory spirit of its inhabitants, 
and from the predatory habits of its barbarous neighbours, the Bhatties. 

Under these circumstances Hurrianna was granted as an independent posses- 
sion to a friendly chieftain, Abdul Summeed Khan, whose personal bravery* 
activity, local knowledge, and influence, justified a confident expectation of 
success in the establishment of his aulliority, and it was expressly stipulated 
that he should not on any occasion whatever bo entitled to require the assistance 
of the British power. But this worthy i)ersou s exertions were found as ineffi- 
cient as those of his predecessors, for in 1 807 he declared himself wholly unable 
to withstand the hostile incursions of the Bhatties, ho had defeated his troops 
and compelled himself to retreat to Rotuk. In llus extremity he requested aid 
from his European patrons, which was refused, the express object of originally 
.settling the different chiefs in independent ])ossessions to the westward of the 
Jumna, having been a renunciation of all claim to the interference of the 
British, to avoid the embarrassment of being entangled by the disputes of their 
neighbours. 

In originally forming the arrangements connected with the disposal of the 
territories on the right bank of the Jumna, the object of the British government 
was to combine the utmost practicable limitation of territory in that direction, 
with the best security on the north-west frontier. The permanent exclusion of 
the Maharatta power and influence from the north of Hindostan was obviously 
necessary to the tranquillity of the British dominions ; and for the same purpose 
it was necessary to retain a considerable portion of territory on the right bank of 
the Jumna, including the advanced post of Rewary, ,and to grant the western 
territories, through which lie the routes from the southward to the northward of 
Hindostan, to native chieftains attached to the British government. If Abdul 
Summeed Khan had been able to establish hi.s authority in Hurrianna, this plan 
would have completely succeeded ; but the total failure of his attempts to' intro- 
duce any species of subordination into that turbulent country left it a prey to 
rapine and disorder, interrupted the communication from the north to south, and 
alarmed the adjacent states for their own trpquillity. 

Abdul Summeed Khan, having spontaneously resigned his claims to this 
country, was reimbursed with a sum of money to defray the expense he had 
incurred in fruitlessly attempting its subjugation, and also with a jaghire and 
pension for the support of himself and family ; and in 1809 a report of the resident 



OF DELHI. 


HURRIANNA.] 


459 


at Delhi having been received, the Bengal government proceeded to consider the 
extraordinary circumstances under which Hurrianna was placed, when the result 
of their deliberations terminated in a resolution to resume the district, and in- 
troduce into it the British authority, with caution and moderation adapted to 
the exigence and semi-barbarous state of its population. 

The province of Hurrianna had, during a very long series of years, been a prey 
to successive invaders, and the scene of incessant rapine and confusion, and 
without the slightest vestige of a regular government. Its inhabitants had from 
necessity become warlike and ferocious, unused to controul, and totally unac- 
quainted with the advantages of a just and peaceable administration. The 
policy of every power which had yet attempted its conquest, had invariably 
been directed to beat down by main force, rather than attempt to conciliate 
their attachment ; treating them always rather as natural enemies than as sub- 
jects. Their dispositions consequently became hostile to every power that 
attempted to enforce subordination, expecting unmixed evil from all. Expe- 
rience, however, has repeatedly shewn that this furious and turbulent spirit 
gradually yields to a mild and conciliatory conduct, which introduces merely 
such restraints as are indispensable to the general good, and is employed in 
confirming and supporting individual rights. Although the benefits of this 
novel species of government are not at first obvious to them, yet it imperceptibly 
operates a reform, when combined with a local power of coercion, capable of 
reducing to obedience those whom it may be found impracticable to conciliate 
or convince. 

Upon these principles it w'as determined to regulate the measures adopted foi 
the settlement of the country, and to render the existing aumils, zemindars, and 
farmers, instruments for the establishment of tranquillity ; to consider them as 
parties with the goverament, not opposed to it, and as interested in suppressing 
rather than exciting disorders. The country has in consequence ever since 
enjoyed a tranquillity unknown for centuries, although in 1812, it suffered 
greatly by a severe drought, and consequently scarcity, approaching nearly to a 
famine, which caused a considerable diminution of the revenue. Under these 
unfavourable circumstances a provisional settlement was effected for Hurrianna, 
with the exception of Futtehabad, for three years, viz. — 

For the fusly or financial year 1813 . . . 223,706 rupees 

Ditto, 1814 308,826 

Ditto, 1815 339,360 

(Public MS. DocuinentSy Metcalfe, lAeut. White, (Gardner, 8^c. 8^c. S^c.) 

Hissar (Hisar ). — ^The ancient capital of the country now known by the name 
of Hurrianmt, sitpated about 105 miles W. N. W. from Delhi, in lat. 28° 67' N. 

3 n2 



460 THE PROVINCE Chmmakka 

long. 75° 24' E. When Abul Fazel wrote in 1682, the town and district attached 
to lit were described by him as follows : “ Hissar was founded by Sultan Feroze,; 
who dug a canal which brings the waters of the Jumna close to the city A 
iervise predicted his accession to the throne, and at his request he dug this 
canal, which passes through the town of Sirsa, and loses itself in lake Bheda. 
Circar Hissar Ferozeh, containing 27 mahals; measurement 3,114,497 begahs; 
revenue 55,004,905 dams; seyurghal 1,406,519 dams. This circar furnishes 
6875 cavalry, and 55,700 infantry. It has few rivers, and to procure water they 
are obliged to dig wells to a great depth.” 

The remains of this city are of great extent, but now so utterly ruinous as to 
preclude the possibility of ascertaining its original limits. Tn 1806, it contained i 
only 300 men, besides a garrison of 200 soldiers, which was soon afterwards \ 
withdrawn, and the departure of which would tend to accelerate the total deso- ' 
lation of this once flourishing capital. The palace of Feroze Shah stands in what 
was the centre of the city, and has very extensive subterranean apartments. 
Close to the palace is an iron pillar, rather less than that at the Joobut, near 
Delhi, called Feroze Shah’s lath. There are also several large tanks, many wells ; 
and vestiges of the Chittung nullah, or watei course, may still be traced. — ( Lieut. 
WAite, ^’c. 

Hans I. — ^This town is sometimes called Hansi Hissar, on account of its prox- 
imity to the latter, and stands on the channel of the canal constructed by Sultan 
Feroze, about 92 miles W. by N. from Delhi, in lat. 28° 54' N. long. 75° 39' E. 
The fort is very strong for a native fortification, and is placed on the top of a 
small hill, which has been scarped and surrounded by a ditch. The town lies 
immediately to the south, and contains but few houses, although the walls include 
a considerable space of ground. On the east is an excellent brick tank, and 
vestiges of the Chittung canal, or water course, are still to be seen. Hansi was 
captured by the Mahommedans of Ghizni so early as A. D 1035, and towards 
the end of the 18th century again attracted notice as the capital of the short-lived 
principality erected by the adventurer George Thomas. — (Lieut. WAite, G. 
TAomas, Rennell, i^c.) 

Cloorgowan. — T he situation of this town is such, that it is difficult to say 
whether it belongs to the Hurrianna country, or that of the Bhatties. Lat. 28° 

9' N. lone. 76° 6' E. 20 miles N. W. from Hissar. 

Mohim — ^This is a large town, but thinly inhabited, and in a most ruinoua. 
state. It is situated about 65 miles W. from Delhi, in lat. 28° 44' N. loii|f. 

76° 2' E. 

Bhowannv ( BAavani J.— This town is situated about 82 miles W. from Del^ii, 
in lat. 28’ 37' N. long. 75* 40' £. and was within that portion of Hurrianna 



OF DELHI. 


SEIK STATES.] 


461 


assigned in 1806 to Nijabut Ali Khan; but he had never been able to obtain 
possession of either town or district. In 1809, during a period of profound 
tranquillity, the inhabitants of Bhowanny made a wanton attack on a British 
detachment, and killed and wounded several sepoys Moderate conditions of 
surrender were subsequently refused by them, and the town was stormed in open 
day by a detachment under Lieut. Colonel Ball, and captured with the loss of 
136 killed and wounded. On this occasion the necessity of proceeding to the 
assault was solely to be imputed to the obstinacy and infatuation of the inhabi- 
tants, who, flushed with confidence from having repelled all former attacks by 
native powers, imagined the British troops were to be resisted with equal 
success. 

After the surrender, the town and lands attached were transferred to the 
British government by Nijabut Ali Khan, in consideration of 6000 rupees to be 
paid him annually ; and as he had never been able to raise a rupee of revenue 
from the inhabitants, who besides infested his adjacent estates, the bargain on 
his part was beneficial. The agent on the part of government, the Hon. E- 
Gardner, then proclaimed a general amnesty to the surviving inhabitants, who 
being certain of equitable protection, immediately leased their lands for 10,800 
rupees per annum, which, with the duties on merchandise, &c. amounting to 
2000 rupees, gave an annual revenue of double the sum paid to Nijabut Ali Khan, 
who before received nothing . — f Public MS. Documents, S<;c.) 

Barwallah. — This is a large brick built town to the north of Hansi, given 
up to Saheb Singh, the Seik Raja of Pattiallah. 

Rotuk (or Rohtuck). — This is a large town, but now mostly in ruins. Un 
the east it has a large brick fort, but the walls of it could not sustain the fire of 
a six pounder. It stands about 47 miles west from Delhi, in lat. 28° 40' N. 
long. 76° 20' E. 

Furrucknagur. — A town in the Delhi province, 34 miles west from the city 
of Delhi. Lat. 28° 39' N. long. 76° 31' E. 


THE SEIK STATES. 

Nearly the whole northern quurtei of this immense province is occupied by 
Seik principalities under the protection of the British government ; for, on the 
conquest of this portion of Hindostan, it was not deemed expedient to establish 
a judicial tribunal within the territories of these petty chiefs, government having 
been always decidedly averse to any interference with their internal concerns 
and administration ; the management of their police was consequently left en- 
tirely to themselves. 

From the moment the Cis Sutulejimi Seiks were released from all dread of 



THE PROVINCE 


462 


[THE SEIK 


Raja Runjeet Singh of Lahore s encroachments, they began to entertain new 
fears and jealousies ; for although they sought the British protection, they never 
wished for a stationary protective force, their aim being only to deter that 
chieftain from further incursions by the terror of the British name. Their first 
solicitations for protection were rejected, and the detachment was marched to 
Ludeeanna, when some of them had not only recovered from their fears, but 
had greatly benefited by the bounty of Runjeet. By some we were considered 
uninvited, unexpected, and unwelcome guests ; but they did not dare to refuse 
what they had once solicited ; and, as there were still many who dreaded the 
future visits of the Lahore Raja, Jodh Singh was the only chief who declined 
attending on the advance of Colonel Ochterlony’s detachment. By the British 
declaration of protection they obtained all they then desired, and would have 
wished to be left in every other respect at large, to prey on each other ; but had 
the protecting force been withdrawn, Runjeet would soon have discovered pre- 
texts for war, and whilst the British government would have been subjected to 
all the expense and danger, these chiefe would have enjoyed all the immediate 
delights of rapine, plunder, and devastation, with a prospectus of indemnification 
for their services by grants of territory in the Punjab, when conquered by the 
British armies. 

When all these enchanting visions were dissipated by the treaty concluded 
with Runjeet Singh, and a force stationed at Ludeeanna, at once to check his 
proceedings, and controul their own feuds and predatory habits, they became 
apprehensive of something mysterious, especially as they ])erceived no benefit 
likely to accrue to the British government, heard no demand for tribute, or any 
exaction which could account for such unexampled disinterestedness. Unable 
to resolve the difficulty, they began to suspect that the power and the inclination 
to exercise it would not long be separated, and that the protection of their 
country would terminate in its annexation to the British dominions. 

Among all the lower classes of their subjects this consummation is earnestly 
wished for, and anxiously expected, and the suspicion of its approach is fre* 
quently exposed by the jealousy of the chiefs, who are yet constrained by the 
force of truth to acknowledge that the occasional interference of the British 
has proved a blessing. If there still be some who think otherwise, it is only such, 
as possessing the means, would gratify their inclinations to the commission of 
rapine and injustice, and it can inspire no very serious regret that persons of 
such dispositions are restrained from the indulgence of their evil passions. The 
coercive measures executed by the British government, to compel the restitution 
of property to the lawful owner, has only excited the grief of the aggressors, and 



OF DELHI. 


STATES.] 


463 


met with little sympathy, while the justice and disinterestedness of the trans- 
action, have been openly and loudly applauded, or beheld with silent wonder. 

The real state of the case is, that these proud and irascible chiefs are glad to 
appeal to the unbiassed’ arbitration of a third party, who by the intervention of a 
salutary authority soothes that pride which would have flown to arms in support 
of their own villages, although they knew their claims unreasonable, their cause 
unjust, and their means o6 resista'nce totally unequal to cope with the superior 
power of their antagonist. There are some also hostile to British interference in 
the internal controul of their administration, because under the name and disguise 
of internal independence, they hope with impunity to rob their relations and 
dependants, and, without the risk of investigation, to annihilate the existence of 
all property, unless belonging to themselves. From some of these petty chief- 
tains on the south-east side of the Sutuleje, holding lands also on the opposite 
shore. Raja Runjeet Singh of Lahore claimed feudal military assistance, which 
to a certain degree was acquiesced in by the British government, although their 
attendance might have been interdicted had it involved any political object. By 
some of these duties are levied on the rafts of timber floated down the Jumna, 
but the whole amount has never exceeded 5000 rupees. 

In 1814, Sir David Ochterlony made a tour among these petty Seik states 
under the protection of the British government, which were found tranquil and 
comparatively prosperous, exhibiting a striking contrast to their prior state of 
turbulence and distraction. For this they are indebted to the detachment sta- 
tioned at Ludeeanna, which protects their chieftains from external violence, and 
also from their own remorseless passions of private revenge and rancorous 
hatred, which would burst forth with redoubled fury were the presence of the 
coercive power withdrawn . — ( Sir David Ochterhtiy, Public MS. Documents, 8^'c. 

Patti ALLAH (Pali Alaya, the chief's rcsw/enccj.— ^The capital of a Seik princi- 
pality, situated about 117 miles N. N. W. from Delhi. Lat. 30° 16 N. long. 76® 
22' E. This is a town of considerable extent, and now the most flourishing in 
the district of Sirhind. It is surrounded by a mud wall, and in the centre there 
is a square citadel, in which tlie Raja resides. 

In 1812, on account of an habitual derangement of intellect to which Saheb 
Singh the Raja of Pattiallah was subject, although with lucid intervals, it became 
necessary for the British government to prevent the anarchy towards which this 
small state was tending. The charge of the government was in consequence 
committed to the Ranny by Colonel Ochterlony, whose life was thereupon 
attempted by an intoxicated assassin, who a few days afterwards lost his own in 
an attempt to force Bie guards placed over him. In 1813, Raja Kurreem Singh 



464 THE PROVINCE FTHAirasAR. 

was placed on the guddee or throne, vacant by the death of bU &thei. wbeae 
insanity continued until his death. Like all others similarly situated throughout 
India, this petty court is a perfect hot bed of political intrigues and machinations, 
and the ferment becomes particularly animated on the decease of the chief. 
Were it hot for the strong hand of the supenor power, the most sanguinary out- 
rages would be perpetrated ; but under existing circumstances the effervescence 
is restricted to the less criminal employments of writing and talking. In 1814* 
when Colonel Ochterlony made his tour through this quarter of the Delhi province, 
he found the young Raja engaged in correcting the abuses whidi had prevailed 
in the administration of the deceased Raja Saheb Singh. 

In 1815, after the expulsion of the Gorkhas from the hilly country between 
the Sutuleje and Jumna, the territory of Bughat, (one of the Barra Thakooria, or 
twelve lordships,) was transferred to Pattiallah for one lack of rupees, with the 
reservation of 4 pergunnahs, to be appropriated to the maintenance of the expa- 
triated Thakoor ; and the fort of Jugguthghur, being surrounded by the lands of 
Bughat, was also transferred to the same state for 30,000 rupees. It was thought 
by the British government that great political advantage resulted, from placing 
in the central district, between the Sutuleje and Jumna, a power which could 
command a considerable force, and which, having a real and decided interest in 
in the country, must at all times be anxious for the maintenance of good order. 
— ( Sir David Ochterlony, Public MS, Documents, ^'c, 8^c.) 

Jeexd. — A town and district in the Delhi province, belonging to Seik chiefs, 
situated 67 miles N. W. from the city of Delhi. Lat. 29* 6' N. long. 76“ 6' E. 
The town of Jeend is about three-fourths of a mile long, and half a mile broad; 
built of brick, and surrounded by a wall without a ditch. On the north, .and 
within the town, is an old brick fort of no great strength. George Thomas, the 
adventurer, was repelled in his attempt to take this place, and driven back to 
Hansi. The district of Jeend is much covered with wood, being the north-west 
portion of the great jungle, commencing in the Sonput pergunnah. The land is 
low, and apparently fertile, but it is at present under very defective cultivation. 
—(Lieut. White, S^c.) 

Kitul. — ^This is a town of considerable size, being much larger than Jeend. 
In 1 808 it was surrounded by a good brick wall and an excellent ditch, having 
on the east a large tank and jeel or shallow lake. Within the wall is a high fort 
of some strength, situated in lat. 29*^37' N. long. 76® 9' E. about 44 miles N. 
W. from Delhi. 

Chicherowly. — ^This place stands six days march north-west from Kuraal, 
and was taken possession of, in 18 . 18 , by a detachment under Brigadier General 
Arnold, the chief and his subjects having been refractory. — (Pubtic Joumah, Sjc.) 



•lEHiKp.] OF DELHI. 465 

Thakusae.— A n ancient town in the Seik territories in the province of Delhi, 
68 miles N. by JS. from the city of Delhi. Lat. 29* 66' N. long. 76" 48' E. By 
Paael, in 1682, it is described as Mows, “ Tahnesir is held sacred by the 
^doos. The river Sursuty (Sereswati), to which the Hindoos pay great adora- 
tion, runs past it. In the vicinity is a lake called Khoorket, to which pilgrims 
come from far to worship and bestow charity. This was the scene of the war 
of the Mahabharat. t)ut of the immense multitude of forces on the one side, 
and the troops of Judhishter on the other, only 12 persons survived the slaughter, 
of wnich number four were of the army of Dooijodhen, namely Keeracharij, a 
Brahmin who had been preceptor to the Cooroos and the Pandoos. 2. Ashota- 
man, who had exercised the same office. 3. Keerut Birman, of the Jadown 
tribe. 4. Sujey, who drove the chariot of Driterashter. The other eight 
survivors were of the Pandoo army, viz. the five Pandoo brothers : Satick. of 
the Jadown tribe ; Hujtash, who was Dooijodhen’s brother by another mother ; 
and Krishna, whose fame is so universal as to render any account of Him unne- 
cessary. Near to this place stood the ancient city of Hustnapoor.” 

When taken by Mahmood of Ghizm in A. D. 1011, Thanusar was still the 
capital of a powerful kingdom. At present it is the next town of importance to 
Pattiallah in the Sirhind district, and is still held in high religious veneration by 
the Hindoos. The inhabitants of the surrounding country are chiefly Jauts, 
many of whom have become Seiks, and there are also a few Rajpoots of low 
caste. — (&r John Mal&)ha, George Thomas, 8$c,) 

Mustaphabad ( Mustapha-abad). — ^A considerable Seik town, situated about 
104 miles N. from &e city of Delhi, in lat. 30* 10' N. long. 77* 6' E. 

Shah AB AD. — A town in the Delhi province, 101 miles N. by W. from the city 
of Delhi. Lat. 30* 8' N. long. 79" 60' E. 

Aubahlah {Ambalaya). — ^The capital of a small Seik state, situated in 
lat. 30* la N. long. 7^ 44' E. 1 15 miles N. by W. from Delhi. 

SiERiHD. — ^A town in the north western extremity of the Delhi province 
about 140 miles N. from the city, in lat. 30* 35' N. long, 76" 19' E. When Abul 
Fazel wrote in 1682, Sirhind was the capital of a district described by him in 
the following terms : “ Circar Sirhind, containing 33 mahals ; measurement 
7,729,466 begahs; revenue 160,790,594 dams; seyurghal 11.697,338 dams. 
TfTus drear furnishes 9;225 cavalry and 55,700 infimtry.” 

The south western portion of Sirhind is extremely barren, being covered with 
low scrubby wood, and in many places destitute of water. About A. D. 1357, 
Feroie the Third cut several canals, from the Jumna and the Sutuleje, in order to 
fertilize thk naturally arid country, and afterwards built a fort at Sirhind, but 
l>oth tlm fort and canals have long been in ruins. The city of Sirlund was fbr- 
▼OL. I 3 o 



406 THE PROVINCE [MJonAinrA. 

merly the capital of this territory, but is now a scene of desolation, and haa 
probably never recovered fix>n]i the dreadful ravages of the Seik Bairaggie Banda, 
about 1707, who is stated to have then not only destroyed the mosques, but to 
have levelled its palaces and public buildings with the ground. Pattiallah, 
already described, is the largest and most flourishing town, anil next to it is 
Thanusar, which is still held in high religious veneration by the as 

also the feeble current (now almost extinct) of the Sereswati riyer. At present, 
the greatest portion of what was the Sirhind circar, is possessed by the Malawa 
Singh class of Seiks. In March, 1809, Raja Runjeet Singh, of Lahore, gave up 
the forts he had occupied on the left bank of the Sutuleje, although he still exacts 
certain feudal duties from such chiefs as also held lands on the north western 
side of that river. 

By Abul Fazel, Sirhind is described as a famous city, containing the delightful 
gardens of Hafez Rehneh, but it now presents only a shapeless mass of exten- 
sive ruins. In the neighbourhood are numerous mangoe groves, and also some 
excellent tanks of water. Between this town and Delhi are extensive plains, 
containing the lowns of Paniput and Kumal, and renowned as the theatre of 
many battles, both in ancient and modem times. Whether Delhi, Agra, or 
Kanoje, were the capital, Sirhind was the route from Persia and Tartary, by 
which the conquerors of Hindostan advanced. In 1809, it belonged to a Seik 
chief named Bingb Singh. — (11/A Register, Rennell, 8^c.) 

Saraswati River. — This river has its source in the hills towards the north- 
east of Sirhind, from whence it flows in a south westerly direction into the 
large province of Rajpootana, where it is absorbed during its progress through 
•that arid country. It was probably in ancient times of much greater magnitude, 
as a river of this name marks a geographical division in the Hindoo mytholo- 
gical poems ; but there is also another Saraswati, which must have flowed in an 
opposite direction, as according to Hindoo notions it still joins the Ganges and 
Jumna, underground, at Allahabad. 

Makewara. — A small town in the province of Delhi, division of Sirhind, 
within four miles and a half of the Sutuleje river, the course of which, 40 years 
ago, ran close to the walls, but has since taken a more northerly direction. 
Lat. 30® 50' N. long. 76° 10' E. 21 miles E. from Ludeeanna. 

Ropoor. — A town in the Delhi province, 26 miles N. by E. from Sirhind. 
Lat. 30° 55^ N. long. 76° 33' E. ^ 

Ludeeanna. — This town stands on the southern bank of a small branch of 
the Sutuleje, which separates from the main channel ten miles above, and re- 
joins at the same distance below Ludeeanna. Lat. 30° 49' N. long. 75° 48' E. 
116 miles S. £. from Lahore, and 170 N. N. £. from Ddhi. For fimr montiis of 



OF DELHI. 


fBftOZBVOOS.] 


467 


the year the climate is here excessively cold, yet during the summer season the 
heat is intense, with hot winds, both seasons being in extremes : the rains are 
also abundant. 

In consequence of the extension of the British possessions in 1803 to the 
banks of the Sutuleje, the line of defence against the attacks of the Seiks became 
much narrowed, and Lord Lake foretold, that a small corps, well stationed in 
iba.t quarter, would effectually protect the Doab and adjoining provinces against 
the incursions of that tribe. Ludeeanna was in consequence selected and forti- 
fied, and in 1808, made the head station of a military corps, sufficiently strong 
both to cover the protected Seik chiefs, and impose respect on those situated 
beyond the Sutuleje. In 1811, the territory from Ludeeanna to Macowal, which 
is close under the high range of hills, was occupied by various chiefs who had 
been in possession many years, but who having also large estates on the oppo- 
site side of the Sutuleje, paid Runjeet Singh a tribute or service to preserve the 
lands immediately subject to his controul . — (Lord Lake, Sir David Ochterlony, 
3^c. ^c.) 

Jaoram (Jayagrama). — A town in the Delhi province, 23 miles S. E. from 
Ludeeanna. Lat. 30" 40' N. long. 76° 28' E. 

Hudeah. — A town in the Delhi province, 50 miles S. by W. from Ludee- 
anna. Lat. 30* ir N. long. 75° 36' E. The state of the country in this quarter 
is but very imperfectly ascertained. 

Tihakah.— A town in the province of Delhi, 27 miles E. from Ludeeanna. 
Lat. 30° 48' N. long. 76° 21' E. 

Ferozefoor (Ftrospur, the City of Victory ). — A town in the Delhi province, 
52 miles S. S. E. from the city of Lahore. Lat. 30° 55' N. long. 74° 35' E. 





THE PROVINCE OF UHORE. 

(lahaur.) 


The province of Lahore is situated between the 30th and 34th degrees of north 
latitude. To the north it is bounded by the Cashmere, and the course of the 
Indus ; to the south by Delhi, Ajmeer, and Mooltan ; on the east it has the 
mountains of northern Hindostan ; and on the west is separated by the Indus 
from Afghanistan. In length it may be estimated at 340 miles by 200, the 
average breadth. By Ab'ul Fazel. in 1582, this province is described as follows : 

The soubah of Lahore is situated in the second climate. The length, from 
the river Sutuleje, is 180 coss; the breadth from Bhember to Ohowkundy, one 
of the dependencies of Satgurrah, measures 86 coss. On the east lies Sirhind ; 
on the north Cashmere; on the south Bicanere and Ajmeer; Mooltan bounds it 
on the west. This soubah has six fine rivers issuing firom the northern mountains, 
the Sutuleje, the Beyah, the Ravey, the Chinaub, the Jhylum or Behut anciently 
the Bedusta, and the Sinde or Indus. 

This soubah is very populous, highly cultivated, and exceedingly healthy. 
The cultivated lands are chiefly supplied with water from wells. The winter is 
much severer here than in any oAer part of Hindostan, although considerably 
milder than in Persia or Tartary. Ice, brought from the norfriem mountains, is 
sold the whole year. The horses resemble Irakies, and are very fine. In some 
parts, by sifting and washing the sands of the rivers, they obtain |;old. silver, 
copper, rowey, tin, brass, and lead. 

“ This soubah contains 5 doabs, sub-divided into 234 pergunnahs. The measured 
lands are 16,155,643 begahs; amount of revenue 569,458,423 4ains; out of which 
9,865,594 dams are seyurghal. It has 54,480 cavalry, and 426,086 infrmtry. 
The province is sub-divided into the jtoUowii^ districts, viz. 1, Doabeh Beyt 
Jallinder; 2, Doabeh Barry; 3, Retchnabad; 4, Doabeh Jennet; and A* Sinde 
Sagor.” The district here named Retchnabad comprehends the country between 
Ravey and the Chinaub ; and the Doabeh Jennet, that between the Chinaub and 



THE PR0VINC5E OF LAHORE. 469 

the Jhyliim, The principal geographical and territorial sub-divisions of modem 
times are the following : 

1, The Punjab, comprehending 7, The Kohistan of Lahore, comprehending 

2, Doabeh Sinde Sagor, 8, Kishtewar. 

3, Doabeh Jinhut, 9, Chandahnee, 

4, Doabeh Rechna, 10, Jamboe, 

6, Doabeh Barry, 11, Kangrah, &c. 

6, Doabeh JaUinder. 

Tlie province of Lahore consists of two portions nearly equal ; the Kohisthan, or 
mountainous tract, which occupies the whole north-eastern division, and the flat 
country to the south-west, better known by the name of Punjab, from the five cele- 
brated rivers by which it is intersected ; and this appellation is frequently, but 
erroneously, applied to the whole province. The climate of course varies, and 
in the winter season a degree of cold, little inferior to that of the central regions 
of Europe, is experienced in the northern quarter. The principal rivers are the 
Indus, the Sutuleje or Hysudms, the Beyah or Hyphasis, the Ravey or 
Hydraotes, the Chinaub or Acesines. and the Jhylum or Hydaspes, which will be 
desoribed hereafter. 

To the south and south-west of Cashmere is a mountainous country, which 
bounds the Punjab, a low covmtry on the north east, and supplies its streams 
with water; for of the five celebrated rivers intersecting that country, the Jhylum 
(Hydaspes) alone flows from Cashmere, and has its source in the more remote 
region of the north. This mountainous tract contains many principalities, the 
most noted of which are Kishtewar, Chandahnee, Jamboe or Jummoo, Khussial, 
Dung Akhoroor, Rajoor and Proaneh. The chiefs of these communities are 
Rajas of Hindoo descent, who retain their Hindoo title, although both they and 
their subjects have mostly adopted the Mahommedan persuasion. Their terri- 
tories, being extremely precipitous, are but thinly inhabited. In their language 
and manners the natives resemble the Cashmerians; but with a considerable 
mixture of the more southern nations. 

In the Kohistan, or Highlands, between the Jamboe and Cashmere many pmes 
are seen, which grow on the &ce of the mountains ; and the willow is also a tree 
of frequent occurrence. The resinous part of the fir, cut into slips, supplies the 
common uses of the lamp, but the method of extracting its turpentine and tar is 
not knoMTu or practised by the natives. The climate of the northern districts of 
Lahore is not fovnurable to fruits and vegetables, being too hot for the Persian 
productkms, and not sufficiently warm to mature those of India. In many parts 
of this province large beds of fossil salt are found, and the mountainous tracts, 
were they investigated, would probably prove rich in all sorts of minerals. At 



THE PROVINCE. 


470 

present the sides of the inhabited mountains, when properly cultivated, produce 
wheat, barley, and a variety of small grains. The spaces under tillage project from 
the body of the hill in separate fiats, in the form of a range of semicircular stairs 
The soil, which is strong and productive, has been propelled into these projections 
by tha rains, which fall with great violence in this quarter from June unitil Oc- 
tober, and the earth washed down is preserved in that state by buttresses of loose 
stones- Rice is also cultivated in the narrow vallies, but not in great quantities, 
nor is it the usual food of the inhabitants, who chiefiy subsist on wheat, bread, 
and peas made into a thick soup. 

That part of the province denominated the Punjab, is by far the most pro- 
ductive, but its fertility has been too much extolled ; for except in the immediate 
vicinity of rivers, no portion of it is to be compared with the British provinces 
in Upper Hindostan, and still less with Bengal, which it has been said to re- 
semble. The greater proportion of the soil is sandy, and contains few of the 
ingredients which assist in the nourishment of vegetables. Of the 4 divisions 
of the Punjab east of the Jhylum or Hydaspes, the two nearest to that river 
are chiefiy pastured by herds of oxen and buffaloes ; and that most to the east, 
towards the Sutuleje, although the most sterile in quality, is the best cultivated. 
The two first are quite flat, the last wavy ; but there is not a hill to the east of 
the Jhylum; the trees are few, and cultivation extremely scanty. It, however, 
contains many fine villages, and some large towns ; but the latter, with the ex- 
ception of Amritsir, the holy cjty of the Seiks, are mostly tending to decay. 
Large droves of horses, of a tolerable good quality, are pastured in the country 
between the Indus and the Jhylum'; and fossil salt is incredibly abundant. The 
greatest breadth of the last mentioned Doab (by Abul Fazel named Sinde Sagor) 
is about the parallel of Attock, from thence to Jellalpoor Ghaut, and may be 
estimated at 1 14 miles ; from the city of Mooltan to Udoo Kote on the Indus, 
is about 33 miles. The northern portion of thi Doab from lat. 33** is hilly, 
and to the south a desert, with the exception of a few miles contiguous to the 
banks of the rivers, liable to inundation. The agricultural productions of the 
Punjab in general are wheat, barley, rice, pulse of all sorts, sugar-cane, tobacco, 
and vanous fruits ; but there is rarely much redundance for exportation. 

An open regular trade with the Punjab, from the other parts of Hindostan, 
has in a great measurq ceased ; but petty merchanw, by applying for passports 
to the different chiefs of the Seik territories, previous to entering their boun- 
daries, are generally supplied with them, through which medium a trifling 
commerce is carried on. The exports from Lahore to the countries west of the 
Indus, ate sugar, rice, indigo, wheat, and white cotton cloths. The imports 
from these countries are swords, hors», fruit, lead, and spices. The e:qp<ats to 



OF LAHORE. 


471 

Cashmere are nearly the same as to Persia; the imports being shawls, a vturiety 
of cloths, safBron, and fruits. With the inhabitants of the Kohistan, or moun- 
tainous division of Lahore, the traders of the Punjab exchange cloth, match- 
lodcs, and horses, for iron and other smaller commodities. From the south are 
iipported sulphur, indigo, salt, lead, iron, European coarse broad cloth, and 
spices. The exports to the south are horses, camels, sugar, rice, white cloth, 
matdilocks, swords, and bows and arrows. The trade is not carried on by any 
particular route, but depends on the characters of the chiefs through whose 
districts it must penetrate to reach its destination. The most considerable pro- 
portion of this traffic is carried on from Amritsir by the way of Matchwaywara 
to Duttyala southward ; by the way of Hansi, Rajghur, and Oreecha, into the 
western part of Rajpootana ; and by the way of Kitul, Jeend, Radree, and 
Kumal, towards Delhi. 

Commerce is, however, much obstructed ; heavy duties being levied on it by 
all the petty rulers through whose domains it passes, which formerly caused 
great part of the Cashmere trade to be carried to Hindostan Proper, by the dif- 
ficult and mountainous route of Jamboe, Nadone, and Serinalur. The Seik 
chiefs, however, in the Punjab, have of late discovered their error, and havf 
endeavoured by a more strict administration of justice, and affording facilities 
to restore confidence to the merchant. 

In the collection of the revenue, the general rule with the Seiks of the Punjab 
is, that the chief receives one half of the produce ; but the whole of this is never 
levied, the ryots, or cultivators, being treated with great indulgence. The ad- 
ministration of justice among this sect is in a very nide and imperfect state ; 
for although their scriptures inculcate general maxims of justice, they are not 
considered as books of law. Trifling disputes are settled by the heads of vil- 
lages, by the chiefs, or by arbitration. This last is called panchayet, or a court 
of five, and is a court of arbitration assembled in every part of India under a 
native government ; and as they are always chosen from men of the best repu- 
tation in the place where they meet, this court has a high character for justice. 
Murder is sometimes punished by the chiefs, but more frequently by the rela- 
tions of the deceased. 

The inhabitatants of the Lahore province are composed of Seiks, Sing^, 
^nuts, Raypoots, and other Hindoos of lower castes, and Mahommedans_. The 
inhabitants professing the Mahommedan religion remaining within tiie Seik ter- 
ritories in the province of Lahore are very numerous, but all poor, and appear 
*0 oppressed, despised race. They tin Ae ground, and are employed to carry 
burthens, and do all sorts of Imrd labour. They are not allowed to eat beef, or 
h) say dwir prayen aloud, and but s^dom permitted to assembly in Aw 



472 THE PROTINCE 

mosques, of which few have escaped destruction. The lower order of Seiljcs 
are more fortunate : they are protected from the tyraimy and violence of their 
chiefs by the precepts of their conomon religion, and by the condition oi their 
country, which enables them to abandon, whenever they chuse, a leader whom 
they dislike ; and the distance of a few miles generally places them under the 
protection of his rival or enemy. In the Punjab, it is reckcmed that one third 
of the whole inhabitants are Singhs, who continue to receive converts, but a 
considerable number of the cultivators are Jauts. The natives are composed of 
different classes of Hindoos, and little difference of manner is seen between 
them and the southern Hindoos, except such as may be supposed to arise from 
a residence in a low or mountainous country. The women in the hilly tract to> \ 
wards the east have an olive complexion, are delicately formed ; their manners 
are also under less constraint than to the south in Hindustan Proper. Among 
these mountaineers, the goitre, or swelled throat, is very common. 

On the north western borders of Lsdiore, the inhabitants are chiefly Afghans, 
who live in small forts or wal’ed villages, and entertain mutual dread and dis- 
trust of each other. This quarter is subject to much desolation from the depre- 
dations of the Seiks on the Attock, and on the adjacent districts. The Seik 
inhabitants between the Ravey and Chinaub are called Dharpi Singhs, from the 
country being called Dharpi. The Dhanegeb Singhs are beyond the Chinaub, 
but within the Jhylum river. In the Punjab the natives are remarkable for 
well arranged white teeth, paun and betel being not so much used here as in 
other parts of India. In this quarter of Lahore it is no uncommon event to 
meet with a fakeer (a devotee or mendicant) travelling about in a palanquin, 
clad in silk, with numerous attendants of horse and foot to protect his sacred 
person. These fanatics are extremely proud, and in general insolent and abusive 
to Europeans. The Punjabee provincial dialect is generally tpoken in the 
country, and is a mixture of Hindostany and Persian, withmt any peculiar 
written character. When analyzed by the missionaries, it was Tuund to contmn 
30 of 32 words, the same as in the Hindostany specimen of the Lord's prayer. 

The Seiks, or rather Singhs, have in general the Hindoo cast of countenance, 
somewhat altered by their long beards, are as active as the Maharattas, and 
much more robust, from their living fuller and enjoying a healthier climate. Their 
courage is equal to that of any of the patives of India, and when wrought upon 
by prejudice or religion is quite desperate. They are all horsemen, and have 
no infantry in their own country except for the defence of their towns and vil- 
lages, yet they generally serve as infantry in foreign armies. They are bold 
and rather rough in their address, speaking invariably in a loud bawling tone of 
voice. 



OF LAHOBE. 


473 

The Seik merchant, or cultivator, if he be a Singh, differs little in character 
from the soldier, as he wears arms, and is, from education, very prompt to use 
them. The Khalasa Seiks (the original followers of Nanak) differ widely from 
the Singhs. They are full of intrigue, pliant, versatile, and insinuating, and 
have all the arts of the lower class of Hindoos employed in business, whom they 
also so much resemble in their dress and other particulars, that it is difficult to 
distinguish them. The three religious tribes of Acalies, Shauhed, and Nirmala, 
have each their peculiar manners. The Nanak putras, or descendants of Nanak, 
have the character of a mild, inoffensive race. 

The Seik Hindoo converts continue all those civil and religious customs of 
the tribes to which they belonged, that they can practise without infringing the 
tenets of Nanak, or the institutions of Gooroo Govind. They are very strict 
respecting diet and intermarriages. The Mahommedan converts who become 
Seiks intermarry with each other, but are allowed to preserve none of their 
usages, being obliged to eat hog’s flesh, and abstain from circumcision. The 
Seiks, or Singhs, are forbidden the use of tobacco, but are allowed to indulge in 
spirituous liquors, which they drihk to excess ; it being rare to see a Seik soldier 
after sunset quite sober. The use of opium and bang (another intoxicating drug) 
is also quite common. The military Seiks permit the hair of the head and beard 
to grow to a great length, and are remarkably fond of the flesh of the jungle 
hog, which is food permitted by their law. The conduct of the Seiks to their 
women differs in no material respect from that of the tribes of Hindoos and 
Mahommedans, from which they are descended, but may be cqnsidered more 
lax than that of their ancestors. The horsemen were formerly well mounted 
from the Lacky jungle, but they are not now better mounted than the Maharattas. 

Seik, properly Sikh, or Siksha, is a Sanscrit word, signifying disciple 01 
devoted follower. Nanak, the founder of the Seik sect, was born at the village 
of Tulwundy, in the district of Bhatti and province of Lahore, A. D. 1419, and 
died at Kirthipoor Dehra on the banks of the Ravey. He left two sons, from 
whom are descended 1400 families called Shahzadehs, who are much respected 
and live at Dera in the Punjab. A saffron impression of the hand of Nanak, is 
still a form of oath, among the Seiks. He was succeeded by 

2. Gooroo Angau Wnt wrote some rhanters of the sacred book an d died 
A.D. 1552. 

3. Amera Dass, a Khetri, succeeded him, and died A. D. 1574. 

4. Ramdass, the son of Amera Dass followed. This Gooroo, or spiritual in- 
structor, improved the town of Chak, and the famous tank or reservoir, which 
he called Amritsir, a name signifying the water of immortality. He died in 
1581,, ai^ was succeeded by his son, 

VOL. 1 . 8 t 



474 THE PROVINCE 

5. Aijoonmal, who rendered himself fkmous by compiling the Adi Granth, 
or first sacred book of the Seiks ; and thus gave a consistent form and order to 
their religion. He died in 1606, and was followed by his son, 

6. Hurgovind. This was the first warlike Gooroo, or priest militant, and is 
said first to have allowed his followers to eat the flesh of animals, with the 
exception of the cow. He died in 1644, and had for his successor his grandson, 

7. Hurray, whose rule was tranquil, and who in 1661, was succeeded by his 
son, 

8. Hurkrishna, who died at Delhi A. D. 1664, after much opposition his suc- 
cessor was 

9. Tegh Bahauder. This Gooroo was put to death by the Mogul government 
in 1675, after having resided for some time in obscurity at Patna. 

10. Gooroo Govind, the son of Tegh Bahauder, followed. This chief new 
modelled the whole government of the Seiks, and converted them into a band of 
ferocious soldiers, changing their name from Seik to Singh, which signifies a lion, 
and had before been exclusively assumed by the Rajpoot tribes. He ordered 
his followers not to cut oif the hair of their heads or shave then beards. After 
much skirmishing with the Mahommedans, during the reign of Aurengzebe, he 
was expelled from Lahore, and is supposed to have died A. D. 1708, at Naded 
in the Deccan. The Seiks consider Gooroo Nanak as the founder of their reli- 
gion, but revere Gooroo Govind as the founder of their worldly greatness and 
political independence. He was the last acknowledged Gooroo, or religious 
ruler of the Seiks, and at present every petty Raja in his own dominions is con- 
sidered as the head both of the church and state, and most of them have become 
violent persecutors. 

During the confusion which took place in Hindostan after the death of Au- 
rengzebe in 1707, the Seiks grew in strength, and devastated the country under 
the command of a Bairaggi or religious mendicant, named Banda, who was at 
length takeit prisoner by the Emperor’s officers and executed. There still 
remains a sect of Seiks named Bandai, or followers of Banda, who chiefly rewde 
in- Mooltan, Tatta, and other citieo adjacent to the Indn? 

From the ueatn of Banda (about 1711) until the invasion of India by Nadir 
Shah in 1739, we hear nothing of the Seiks, who are related then to have plun- 
dered that conqueror’s baggage. In the subsequent dissolution of government, 
which took place in Lahore, and ^e adjacent provinces, the Seik power 
strengthened ; and during the first Abdalli Afghan invasion in 1746, they made 
themselves masters of a considerable portion of the Doab of the Ravey and Jal- 
tinder. They received many severe checks from the Mahommedans, and in 1762 
and 1763 were almost exterminated by Ahmed Shah Abdalli, mid Rie A^i^iaas; 



OF LAHORE. 475 

but fVom their determined spirit of resistance they always rose superior to their 
misfortuness, until they acquired and consolidated their present possessions. 

For many years prior to the appearance of Runjeet Singh, they were 
mostly occupied by petty internal feuds transmitted from father to son, and 
independent of the comparatively larger conquest in which the greater chiefs 
were occasionally engaged, every village became an object of dispute, contested 
by brothers or near relations. In this state of anarchy, their power became so 
little formidable, that about 1803, General Perron, who commanded a body of 
troops in the service of Dowlet Row S India, intended to have subdued the Pun- 
jab, and made the Indus the boundary of his possessions. When Holkar fled 
across the Sutuleje in 1805, he was pursued there by Lord Lake, upon which occa- 
sion a national council of Seik chiefs was called to avert the danger, but very few 
of the leaders attended, and many of the absentees notified their intention of 
resisting the resolutions of this council. 

It is difficult to ascertain the population of the Seik territories. They formerly 
bCasted that they were able to raise 100,000 horse, and if it were possible to 
assemble every Seik horseman, this might not be an exaggeration ; but there is 
no cmef among them except Runjeet Singh, that could bring an effective body 
of 4,000 into the field ; and in 1805, this prince’s force did not amount to 8,000 
men. By the arrangements of that and subsequent years a grand political sepa- 
ration was made of the nation, which became divided into two distinct commu- 
nities ; those to the south of the Sutuleje under the British protection, (already 
described) ; and those to the north of that river, nominally independent, but in 
reality all subjugated by Raja Runjeec Singh of Lahore city, of whom further 
mention wiU be made under that head. To the incessant encroachments of this 
prince, these petty leaders opposed neither union nor policy. In every skirmish 
or action, and in every trifling siege, they evince the most determined disregard 
of personal danger ; yet having made a short resistance, and unnecessarily sacri- 
ficed a number of lives, they seem to think tliey have done all that is required, 
and then yield an unconditional submission with as little solid reason, as they at 
first commenced hostilities. 

The Lahore province from its commanding situation possesses many advantages 
over the rest of India, and under a proper form of government would alone be 
sufficient to constitute the basis of a powerful and civilized kingdom. The pro- 
ductive powers of the southern half, intersected by five noble rivers, might be 
renoivated, and the natural strength and temperate climate of the northern unite 
circumstances in its favour that are generally in collision. These advantages, 
added to its geographical position at the only assailable quarter, point it out as 
the quarter from whence Hindostan is to be ruled, conquered and defended. It 

3 r 2 



476 THE PROVINCE [citt oi 

is nevertheless in a most miserable state of cultivation, and one of the most 
thinly inhabited of India ; the total population dispersed over a surface of near 
70,000 square miles probably not exceeding in the aggregate four millions of 
souls. — (Sir John Malcolm, Forster, F. Buchanan, Sir D, Ochterlony, Elphinstone, 
Macartitey, ^'c. ^x.) 

Lahore. — The capital of Raja Runjeet Singh, the modem chieftain of the 
Seiks, situated on the south side of the Ravey river. Lat. 31® 36' N. long. 74' 
3' E. The river is here about 300 yards wide, but the stream is not deep 
rapid, except during the height of the rains. The old fort is a place of x 
strength, without a ditch or any defences for cannon. The walls are lofty an^ 
decorated on the outside, but hastening to ruin, as are most of the private build- 
ings. Lahore is notwithstanding still a town of considerable size, with a gooq 
bazar, but it is not inhabited by w'ealthy people : on account of the frequent, 
sackings it has sustained, they have migrated for safety to Amritsir. 

The palace was originally founded by Acber, and enlarged by bis successors. 
Across the Ravey at Shah Durra, about two miles north of Lahore, stands 
the celebrated mausoleum of Jehangeer, within a wall of ‘nearly 600 yards 
square. It is a magnificent building, 66 paces on each side, and still in very 
good condition, but much inferior to the Tauje Mahal at Agra. To the south- 
ward of this, in the open plain, is to be seen the tomb of Noor Jehan Begum, a 
building 36 paces square. In 1812, Runjeet Singh had built and was building 
a very thick wall and rampart round the city, with a deep broad ditch. The 
palace had also been nearly surrounded by a deep and broad ditch ; the whole 
faced with brick, and the earth thrown inwards, so as to form a broad rampart 
with bastions at intervals. These works, however, appear to be commanded 
from the city by heaps of mins, which would require to be removed. The tomb 
of Jehangeer and its enclosure are capable of containing sufficient gram and 
liquor for a month’s expenditure of a large army ; and although the city generally 
is verging to decay, the domes and minarets of the mosques, the lofty walls 
of the fort, the splendid mausoleum of Jehangeer, and the numberless inie- 
rior tombs and temples that surround the town, still render it an object of 
curiosity and admiration. 

Lahore was first taken by Sultan Baber, A. D. 1520, and was for some time 
the seat of the Mogul government. Since that period it has undergone many 
revolutions, and was for a considerable time possessed by the Abdalli Afghans 
of Cabul, by whom it is named Sikrei. For the last thirty years it has been 
under the domination of the Seiks, and has latterly been the head quarters of 
Raja Runjeet Singh, the most powerful chieftain of that piedatOTy peofde, and 
whose sway, like Aarcm’s rod, has swallowed up nearly all Uie otl^ petly 



LAHORE.] 


OF LAHOKE. 


477 

turbulent potentates. From obscure beginnings this chief, by persevering 
encroachments, urged himself into notice. Yet so recently as 1805, when Lord 
Lake advanced into the Punjab, he was only one among many. On that occa- 
sion the British commander had an interview with Raja Runject Singh, which 
the latter in a despatch to the Bengal government said afforded him so much 
satisfaction, that he wished to continue a friendly intercourse by letter. He 
was informed in reply, that it was the uniform practice of the British govern- 
ment to maintain the relations of amity and concord with all states, and that 
notwithstanding the great power it possessed, and which was attained in conse- 
quence of the endeavours made to injure and molest it, it never made any 
demands on a state disposed to maintain the obligations of friendship. Indeed of 
this a convincing proof came under Runjeet s own observation, when the army 
from Bengal followed Holcar across the Sutuleje, where, notwithstanding the 
rapidity and tumult of the pursuit, not the slightest injury was done to any of 
the countries through which the British army passed, and which although 
succeeding to the power of Dowlet Row Sindia in the north of Hindustan, never 
exacted the tribute paid by. the Seik chieftains to that sovereign. 

Within the following interval until 1812, Raja Runjeet Singh had emploj’ed 
his tirhe so effectually, that lie had subdued the whole of the Punjab ; but his 
encroachments to the south east of the Sutuleje were successfully opposed by 
the British, who obstructed his design of subjugating all the petty chiefs between 
that river and the Jumna, by the establishment, in 1808, of a strong military 
detachment at Ludeeanna. This arrangement inspired him at first with no little 
alarm : for, being fully sensible of his own utter inability to contend with the 
British nation, the more strongly he was impressed with the truth of this fact, 
the more he was inclined to doubt their pacific intentions ; forbearance being to 
him and his counsellors incomprehensible, and the incessant encroachments 
which had employed his whole life, had filled his country with mal-contents, 
ready to assist m the overthrow of his usurpation In 1809 his apprehensions 
were somewhat tranquillized by a treaty of friendship and alliance then concluded 
with him by Mr. Metcalfe on the part of the British government, by the con- 
ditions of which the latter engaged to have ho concern with the subjects or 
territory of the Raja to the north of the Sutuleje, and the Raja agreed never to 
main tain , in the territories occupied by him or his dependants to the south of that 
river, more troops than were necessary to carry on the internal police of the 
country, and also to abstain from encroachments on the chiefs to the south of 
that boundary. At present Runjeet Singh is about 56 years of age, and possessed 
of only one eye, having lost the other by the small pox. In 1818 he had three 
•mis living i Curmck Singh, Shere Singh, and Tara Singh. The solidity and 



THE PROVINCE 


478 


[IKDUS. 


acuteness of his judgment greatly surpass the general standard of his country- 
men, yet he is frequently known to yield his opinion to that of very inferior 
men, who he supposes are better qualified to decide than himself, merely bemuse 
they can read and write. In 1816, he made a tour through the Kohistan, or hilly 
country ©f the Lahore province, accompanied by a considerable army, in order 
to levy his revenue from the tributary Rajas, among whom may be enumerated 
Futteh Singh of Aloo, and the Rajas of Nadone, Cooloo, Moondaee, and Ahmed 
Khan of Jhung, besides others of less note. In the tract whefe his authority is 
acknowledged, he appears to have been always disposed to rule with mildness, 
exacting a moderate tribute and restoring the native Rajas, whereas the Gorkhas 
of Nepaul had always ruled their dependants with the most sanguinary barbarity. 
While pushing his conquests in this direction, he also made several attempts, to 
effect the subjugation of Cashmere, but they all proved abortive. On the opposite 
side of his dominions he is an unceasing annoyance to the chiefs of Mooltan, 
Behawalpoor, and his other weaker neighbours, whom he endeavours to subdue 
by the same melange of force and fraud, which he exercised too successfully 
against the chiefs of his own nation. His army is numerous, but it is compqsed 
of materials that have no natural cohesion, and the first serious check it meets 
with will probably cause its dissolution. 

Travelling distance from Delhi 380 miles ; from Agra 517 ; from Lucknow, 
639; from Bombay 1070; and from Calcutta 1356 miles . — (Sir D. Ochterlony, 
Wth Register, Remell, Elphinstonc, Sgc.^c.) 

Emixabad (Aminabad). — A town in the Lahore province, 29 miles N. from 
Lahore. Lat. 31° 59' N. long. 74° 5' E. 


THE RIVER INDUS (Sindhu). 

The source of the Indus still remains unexplored, but of late years much 
information has been collected by travellers and others regarding its course and 
origin. At present probable conjecture fixes its commencement in the northern 
declivity of the Cailas branch of the Himalaya mountains, about lat. 31* 30' N. 
long. 80" 30' E. not far from the Chinese town of Gortope, and within a few miles 
of Lake Rawanshead, and the sources of the Sutuleje. The stream of the Indus 
has been traced with certainty only to the neighbourhood of Draus, a town in 
Little Tibet (lat. 35° 20' N. long. 76* E.), where, according to the testimony of 
the natives, two great branches join eight days march for a caravan N. N. E. 
from the town of Cashmere. The left of these branches they describe as being 70 
yards broad a little above the junction, and excessively rapid, flowing from the 
north of east, with a wooden bridge across it. Other accounts assert that tiic 
confluence tdtes place two marches above Draus and that at, or bdow Draus, 



INDUS.] OF LAHORE. 479 

it is separated into two streams ; the lesser, named the Little Sinde, running 
south to Cashmere, while the course of the greater remained unknown, but was 
distinguished by the name of the Great Sinde. The main stream which passes 
Draus, coming from the north of east, is supposed to flow near to Lahdack, the 
capital of Little Tibet, to which point from Gortope its current is conjectured to 
flow for nearly 400 miles from S. S. E. ; but its course above Draus is wholly 
conjectural, its channel higher up, owing to the difficult and desolate nature of 
the country, having never been explored. 

From Draus the Indus pursues its solitary course for above 200 miles through 
a rude and mountainous country to Mullai, where after it has penetrated through 
the great Hindoo Cosh chain, it receives from the north-west the Abbaseen, and 
subsequently proceeds for 50 miles through the lower hills of the Hindoo Cosh 
to Torbaila (40 miles above Attock), where it enters the valley of Chuch, spread- 
ing and forming innumerable islarAis. About forty miles lower down, it receives 
the Cabul river, and soon after riishes through a narrow opening into the midst 
of the branches of the Soliman range of mountains. Even when the water is at 
the lowest, the junction of these rivers, and their course through the rocks before 
they penetrate the mountains, cause waves and eddies, and occasion a sound 
like that of the sea ; but M’hen their volume is swelled by the melting of the 
snow, a tremendous whirlpool is created, the roaring of which may be heard at 
a great distance. It frequently swallows up boats, or dashes them to pieces on 
the rocks. The two black rocks in this part of the river, named Jellalia and 
Kemalia, are pointed out by the inhabitants as the transformed bodies of the 
two sous of Peeree Taruk (the apostle of darkness), the founder of the Roushenia 
sect, who were thrown into the river by Akhoond the dervise and theological 
opponent of their father. In 1809, the Indus was forded above its confluence 
with the Cabul river by Sultan Shah Shuja, but this was considered an extra- 
ordinary event, there being no other ford of the Indus known, from the place 
where it issues from the mountains to its junction with the ocean. 

The Indus which above is so widely spread out in the plain, at Attock is con- 
tracted to 260 yards, but deep and rapid. When the floods are highest, it 
rises to the top of a bastion from 35 to 40 feet high, but does not then expand 
above 50 yards more. Lower down where it enters the hills it becomes still 
narrower, and at Neelaub, a town 15 miles below Attock, is said to be only a 
stone’s throw across, but exceedingly deep and rapid. From Neelaub it winds 
among the hills to Caulabaugh, where it passes through the salt range in a deep, 
clear, and tranquil stream, and from thence pursues a southerly course to the 
ocean, without being again shut in or interrupted by hills On the contrary. 



THE PROVINCE 


480 


[iKDUS. 


after passing Caulabaugh it expands over the plain into various channek, which 
meet and separate again, but are rarely united into one body. 

Below Attock the Indus receives the Toe and other brooks, but no stream of 
smy na^agnitude until it is joined by the Koorum river at Kaggawala, where its 
^d is broad but very shallow. The only river that flows into the, Indus from 
the west, ‘south of this point, is the Arul ; but it supplies little water, as its stream 
is mostly drawn off for the purposes of irrigation in the north of the Damaun 
district, and never reaches the Indus unless when swelled by monsoon rains. 
At Kaheree ghaut, in lat. 31° 28' N. the breadth of the Indus at two points 
was found to be 1010 and 905 yards on the Cth of January, a period of the year 
when the stream is at the lowest. The deep part of the channel was not above 
100 yards across, and only about 12 feet j;o the bottom, an elephant not having 
about 100 yards to swim ; but at this place the main channel is consideraWy 
reduced by the previous separation of several large branches, which run nearly 
parallel to the main stream. One of them from its right bank is fordable only in 
a few places, and 202 yards broad. Another considerable branch was 50 yards 
broad, and there were besides two inferior branches. In that vicinity the banks 
of the Indus are very low, that is, the inner banks seldom exceed six feet, gene- 
rally only 4 or 5, and during the rainy season the river overflows them, and 
expands in many places to 15 miles. It appears evident also that the former 
channel ran seven miles more to the eastward. 

The islands and low country, which are inundated during the monsoon, consist 
of rich black clay, in some parts well cultivated, while others are overgrown with 
high grass jungle, in patches of which the labourers have temporary huts. The 
bed of the Indus is sand, with a small quantity of mud, and its water resembles 
that of the Ganges. There are many quicksands, and the islands are for the most 
part covered with long jhow jungle. For 70 miles above Mittcnda Kat (lat. 28° 
35' N.) where it receives the Punjnud, (a river formed by the union of the Punjab 
waters, which, although of great bulk, is much inferior to the Indus above the junc- 
tion,) the two immense streams run parallel, and at Ooch, which is 60 miles up, 
the distance across is not above ten miles. In the months of July and August this 
intervening space is one complete sheet of water, the villages, with a few excep- 
tions, being only temporary erections, and such appears to be the nature of the 
whole country it traverses, through Sinde to Hyderabad the capital. On the left 
bank are some considerable towns and villages, where canals have bem» cut for 
the purposes of agriculture; but, notwithstanding this superexcellent inland 
navigation, owing to political causes, there is scarcely any trade carried on 
between Sinde and the countries to the north. In the time of Aurengzebe a 



INDUS.] . OF LAHORE. 481 

considerable trade subsisted, which has long ceased. The course and depth of 
the river have never been examined in a satisfactory manner, but according to 
native report there is, from the Gulph of Cutch to Lahore, a distance of 760 geo- 
graphical miles, sufficient water to float a vessel of 200 tons burthen ; the passage 
down from Lahore to the sea occupying only 12 days. Of the five rivers which 
give the name to the Punjab, the Indus is not considered as one, being rather 
the trunk, or stock, into which the streams of Cabul and Lahore flow. 

Seventeen miles to the south of Bhukor(lat. 27° 19 ), the Indus sends off a branch 
to the westward, which performs a circuit, and rejoins the main body at the town 
of Sehwan, 50 miles below the point of separation. This branch is known by 
the name of the Kumburgundee, or Larkhaim river, and at one place spreads 
into a lake, ten or twelve miles across, situated near the base of the Bra- 
hooick mountains. The insulated territory is named Chandookec, and is one of 
the most fertile in the Sinde dominions. 

The Fulalee branch of the Indus, which flows east, is of very considerable size, 
and encircles the island on which Hyderabad stands. Ascending the Fulalee, 
from its junction with the Indus up to Hyderabad, it winds so much that 
although the direct distance by land is not more than 14 miles, the route by 
water is not less than 24. The depth of water in this part of the route, during 
the month of August, is from 4 to 6 fathoms, and there are many villages 
scattered on each side of the river. * At its most eastern winding it detaches the 
Goonee branch, which at one time joined the ocean, about a degree to the east- 
ward of the grand trunk of the Indus; but in 1799, Futteh Ali, a late Ameer, 
for the purposes of irrigation, threw an embankment across it at Alibunder, and 
now fresh water presses the dam on the upper side, while the tide flows up to the 
lower. The river below the dam is called Lonee, or salt. The water in all these 
minor branches of the Indus appears annually to decrease, and the bed of the 
stream to become shallower. 

Aftfer the Fulalee rejoins the Indus, the course is for seme miles south, at last 
deviating to the south-west, in which' direction it may be said to enter the ocean 
in one vast volume. As it approaches the estuary, several minor streams branch 
off from the main trunk, but they never reach the sea, being absorbed by the 
sands of the desert, lost in an enormous salt morass, or abstracted by the natives 
for agricultural uses. From the sea up to Hyderabad, the Indus is in general 
about a mile in breadth, varying in depth from two to five fathoms ; at Lahore 
Bunder it is 4 miles broad; still further down, at Dharajay Bunder, 9 miles; and 
at the extreme of the land 12 miles from shore to shore. It is a remarkable 
circumstance that the tides are not perceptible in the Indus at a greater distance 
than 60 of 66 miles from the sea. At t^ mouth the bore, or sudden influx of 

3 o 


VOL. I. 



THE PROVINCE 


482 


[iKDtJS. 


the tide, is high and dangerous, and the velocity of its current has been estimated 
at 4 miles per hour, but this must vary greatly at different places. Like the 
Nile and Ganges, the Indus is always described as having a Delta, but at present, 
except perhaps during the height of the rains, the expression does not apply, and 
the river cannot with propriety be said to have more than one mouth. Neither 
does the space of land, miscalled the Delta, possess the rieh soil and luxuriant 
vegetation seen near the debouchure of the more sacred stream. On the contrary, 
as the sea is approached, the dry parts exhibit nothing but short scrubby brush- 
wood, the remainder, and much the larger portion, arid sand, noisome saline 
swamps, or shallow salt lakes. 

In Hindostan there are 4 rivers, which were once much dreaded by religious | 
people. It was forbidden even to touch the waters of the Caramnassa, to bathe ' 
in the Caratoya (a river in Bengal called Curvatya in the maps), to swim in the 
Gunduck, and to cross the Attock. The prohibition may, however, be evaded 
by crossing the Indus above its confluence with the Attock. In Acber’s reign a 
body of Rajpoots, with their attendant Brahmins, crossed the Indus to chastize 
some refractory Patan tribes, and Brahmins who live in Hindostan cross it daily 
without any scruple. There are other Brahmins and Hindoos of all denomina- 
tions who cross it daily to visit the holy places in the west ; but these persons 
have renounced the world, and retain but few practices of their castes. Though 
highly respected no body presumes to eat or communicate with them ; but they 
go in crowds to receive their blessing. 

This river is called the Sindhu, or Sindhus, in Sanscrit, and Aub Sinde, or the 
water of Sinde, by the Persians and Abul Fazel, who says that “ according to 
some, it rises between Cashmere and Cashgar, while others place its source in 
Khatai. It runs through the territories of Sewad, Attock, Benares, Chowpareh, 
and the territory of the Balooches.” From Attock downwards to Mooltan, this 
river has obtained the name of Attock, and further down that of Soor, or Shoor, 
but it is generally known to Asiatics by the name of the Sinde. From the length 
of its course, and the greatness of its volume, the Indus must be reckoned among 
the largest rivers in the world, many of its tributary streams being little inferior 
in magnitude to some of the most considerable rivers of Europe, and its channel, 
for 900 miles from Attock to the sea, presents a strong and distinct barrier to 
the west against external invasion. It does not appear, however, that it ever 
attained that celebrity and sanctity among the Hindoos which they have, without 
any apparent reason, attached to many inferior streams, yet there is every reason 
to believe, that when first crossed by the Mahommedans, both banks were inha- 
bited by sects of the Brahminical persuasion, of course equally interested in 
supporting its reputation ; but it probably then, as now, flowed through a sterile 



OF LAHORE. 


CHINAUB.] 


483 


uninteresting soil, and never attracted the attention of a poet or divine. As is 
stated in the beginning of this description, the distance of its source from the 
sea has never been traced more than 1350 miles, but there is reason to suppose 
that the total length of its course, including windings, will not fall short of 1700 
miles. — (Elphimtom, Macartney, Pdttinger, Rennell, Wilford, d^-c. S^c. ^x.) 

Jhylum River (or Hydaspes ). — ^This river has its source in the south-eastern 
comer of the Cashmere valley, is there called the Vedusta, and proceeding nearly 
due west passes the capital of that province, where it is joined by a small stream 
fitan the Culler lake. Twelve miles below that town it is joined by the Little 
Sinde, and by many smaller rivers during its course through the hills and vallies, 
which it enters at Baramoola, and 4 miles below MuzifFerabad it receives the 
Kishengunga coming from the northward. Thus far its course is nearly due 
west ; but from hence it makes a great curve to the south, and near the town of 
Jhylum (lat. 33° 3') is little known, the country being so excessively moun- 
tainous that it is frequented by few travellers. The Jhylum in its course through 
the hills is very rapid, and from one to 600 yards broad ; but it is not fordable 
at any season, although men and horses have only from 15 to 20 yards to swim. 
After a course of 450 miles it joins the Chinaub at Tremmoo Ghaut, 20 miles 
below Jhung, and 100 above Mooltan, and after the conflux ceases to have a 
distinct name. 

Fifty miles lower down, these united streams receive the Ravey, near Fazel 
Shah and Ahmedpoor, and flow on, passing the city of Mooltan about four miles 
and a half to the north ; the combined streams retaining the name of Chinaub to 
within eight miles of 0®ch at Sheeneebukree, where they are joined by the 
Gurrah, or united waters of the Bcyah and Sutuleje, 115 miles, including wind- 
ings, below Mooltan, and 60 miles below Bahawulpoor. From this point to 
Mittcnda Kat, where they fall into the Indus, a distance of 90 miles, these 5 
rivers, now forming one, take the name of the Punjnud, and for the above distance 
run nearly parallel to their ultimate reservoir, the Indus, the distance across 
seldom exceeding ten miles. During the rains the last-metttioned space is one 
entire sheet of water. This river, the most westerly of the Punjab streams, is 
by Abul Fazel named die Bchut, or Bedusta, in ancient Hindoo mythological 
poems the Indrani, and is the famous Hydaspes of Alexander. It is reckoned 
the second largest of tlie Punjab rivers, its breadth at Jellalpoor (lat. 32° 40') in 
the month of August being 1800 yards, with a depth of 14 feet, and the length 
of its course from its origin to its injunction with the Indus, about 750 miles, 
including windings. — ( Macartney, Rennell, %c. ^c. ^'C.) 

Chinaub river (or Acesines ). — ^This river has its source on the southern 
declivity of the Himalaya cbftj n of mountains, near the south-east corner of 

3a 



484 THE PROVINCE [uavey. 

Cashmere, in the Alpine district of Kishtewar, from whence it flows in a south 
westerly direction until it unites with the Jhylum or Hydaspes at Tremmoo 
ghaut. Lat. 30® 55' N. 

The Chinaub is the largest Punjab stream. At Vizierabad ghaut (50 miles 
north from the city of Lahore) on the 31st of July, 1809, it measured one 
mile, three furlongs, and twenty perches across, fourteen feet deep, with a 
current of about five miles per hour ; but at the same place, in the dry season, 
its channel does not exceed 300 yards across. There is not any ford ascertained 
to the south of the hills, but like the Jhylum it is easily crossed at the points 
where the banks are low and the bed wide, there being only a short distance to 
swim in the centre. The banks of the Chinaub above, are low and M^ell wooded ; 
but the trees are so small, that the timber for boat building is floated down from 
the hills, 150 miles further up, where it is abundant. The oblique distance from 
Jelal poor ghaut to Vizierabad across the Doab of the Jhylum and Chinaub is 44 
miles ; the country level and the soil good, but chiefly under pasture. 

The ancient Hindoo name of this river was the Chandra Bhaga or Chandra 
Sarita, and is considered as the Acesines of Alexander. Its junction with 
Jhylum is eftected with great noise and violence, which circumstance is noticed 
both by the historians of Alexander and Timour. By Abul Fazel, in 1582, it is 
described as .ollows : “ Another river of Lahore is the Chinaub, called also 
Chunderbahka (Chandra Bhaga). From the top of the mountains of Khutwar 
(Kishtewar) issue two springs, one called Chunder, and the other Bahka. In the 
neighbourhood of Khutwar they unite their streams, and are then called Chun- 
derbahka; from thence they flow on to Belolipoor, Sooderah, and Hezareh.” — 
The course of the Chinaub from the snowy mountains, to which it has been 
traced, to its junction with the Indus at Mittenda Kat, may, including windings, 
be estimated at 650 miles. — ( Rcmell, Alacartney, Wtlford, 8^c, 8^c.) 

Ravey ( Iravati ) River ( ur Il^draotes). — This is the third river of the Punjab, 
and the Hydraotes of Alexander’s historians. Its source has never been satis- 
factorily ascertained ; but it issues from the mountainous districts of Lahore, 
near the declivity of the Himalaya mountains, from whence it flows in a south- 
westerly direction, and enters the plains near Rajepoor, from which point the 
canal of Shahnehr (now extinct) was formerly drawn to Lahore, a distance of 
about 80 miles in length. This canal was intended, besides the purposes of 
irrigation, to supply the city of Lahore with water during the dry season, when 
most of the Indian rivers are fi om 20i to 30 feet below the level of their banks. 
At Meannee ghaut on the 12th of August, 1809, when it had attained its 
greatest height, the breadth was found to be only 513 yards, the deepest part 12 
feet, and not above 40 yards across. In the cold season it is here fordable, not 



BEYAii.] OF LAHORE. 485 

having above four feet of water. In this vicinity it has many quicksands, and 
its banks are low, but well wooded. The oblique distance from Vizierabad 
ghaut on the Chinaub, to Meeannee ghaut on the Ravey, is 55 miles. This Doab 
is flat land with a tolerable good sod, although more elevated than the Doab of 
the Chinaub and Jhylum. 

After entering the plains, the course of the Ravey continues south-west until 
it passes the city of Lahore, and from thence in the same direction, latterly 
inclining more to the west, until it unites with the combined waters of the 
Chinaub and Jhylum, near Ahmedpoor, 40 miles above the city of Mooltan, 
after which their rapidity and breadth are particularly noticed by the historians 
of Alexander and Timour. In point of volume of water this is the least of the 
Punjab, and the whole length of its course, from its commencement to its final 
junction with the Indus, probably does not exceed 580 miles including windings. 
— ( Macartney, Remiell, ^'c.) 

Bevah (Vipasa) Riveh (the Hyphasis .) — This is the fourth river of the 
Punjab, and the Hyphasis of Alexanders historians. The Beas Gunga and 
Ban Gunga are said to form the Beyah ; the first passing Kote Kaungra to the 
southward, and the latter to the northward in a westerly direction, joining at 
Hureepoor, one march below the fort. The Ban Gunga is said to separate near 
the fort, one passing on each side and uniting below so as to form an island. 
Abul Fazel writes, that the source of the Beyah, named Abyekoond, is in the 
mountains of Keloo in the pergunnah of Sultanpoor. After issuing from the hills, 
the current of this river flows in a south-westerly direction, and at Bhirowal 
ghaut in 1809, when the floods were at the highest, measured 740 yards across, 
the stream passing with a rapid current, and having a high bank on the right 
side. In the cold season it is here fordable in most places, but in its bed are 
many quicksands, and when the waters are low, many islands and sand banks 
are left exposed. Timber in this vicinity is scarce and of small dimensions, and 
the boats at the above named ghaut of an extremely bad construction, more 
resembling rafts than boats. They are made flat botfomed, with one plank all 
round, and do not draw above six inches water, which is so far in their favour. 

The Beyah joins the Sutuleje 35 miles below Bhirowal, near the village of 
Hurraka and not fiir from Ferozepoor; after which conjunction, the united 
streams are first named Beas, and further on Gurrah, by which appellation it is 
also known at Gordeean ghaut, near Pakputtun, IGO miles above Behawulpoor, 
and 100 S. S. W. from Lahore. The Beyah and Sutuleje at their junction are 
nearly the same size, but the latter is rather the largest. Their course also is 
nearly the same from the snowy ridge 150 miles to their junction, and 260 more 
to where they unite witli the aggregated waters of the Jhylum, Chinaub, -and 



THE PROVINCE [pukelt. 

Ravey. The total length of its course, including windii^s, may be estimated 
590 miles. In 1805, Lord Lake pursued Jeswunt Row Holcar to the banks of 
this river, when he sued for peace, and a treaty was concluded on the 24th of 
December of that year . — ( Macartney, Renndl, ^c. ^c.) 

SuTU^EjE River (Satadru, with a hundred bellies or channels.) — ^The fifth river 
of the Punjab, and the Hyphasis of Alexander’s historians. When Mr. Morecroft 
visited lake Manasarovara, he was informed by the natives in the vicinity that 
near the south-western extremity of that sacred pool there issued a river, which 
proceeding in a westerly direction passes along the Rawan head lake, and 
flowing again from its western extremity forms the first branch of the Sutuleje. 
Mr. Morecroft, however, was of opinion, that Lake Manasarovara sends out no 
river or even stream to the south, north, or west, although the impression of all 
parties seems to be that it has its source within the gigantic range of Himalaya 
mountains, through which it penetrates, and more recent inquiries rather tend 
to confirm the assertions of the natives. By Abul Fazel, in 1 582, it is described 
as follows: “The Sutuleje, formerly called Shetooder, whose source is in the 
mountains of Ghahlore. Rooper, Matchwareh, and Ludeeanna are situated on 
its banks. After having passed these places, it runs to Bowh ferry, where it 
unites with the river Beyah, anciently called Beypasha.” 

The Sutuleje appears to be the largest of the rivers flowing within the moun- 
tains of Northern Hindostan, having been found to be at Rampoor, in Bussaher, 
at the narrowest point, 210 feet wide in the month of June, and very deep. At 
Bellaspoor, about 60 miles further down, its breadth is 300 feet. From the lake 
to its junction with the Beyah may be estimated at 500 miles ; thence to its 
confluence with the Indus 400 ; to which 500 more being added for its progress 
to the Ocean, would give a total journey of 1,400 miles, and entitle it to a high 
station among streams claiming rank from their length of course.- Much, how- 
ever, remains to be ascertained respecting the course of this hundred-bellied 
stream through the mountains above Bellaspoor, and even between Ludeeanna 
and Bellaspoor . — ( Morecroft, Rennell, 8^c. dgc.) 

PucKELY (Paxali). — This district occupies the north-western comer of the 
Lahore province, where it is enclosed on three sides by the Indus and Jhylum 
rivers; and by Abul Fazel, in 1582, is described as follows: “ Circar Puckely 
measures in length 35, and in breadth 25 coss. On the east lies Cashmere ; on 
the .north -Kinore.; on the south the country of the Gehkert ne ; and on the west 
is Attock Benares. Timour left a small number of troops to keep possession of 
this quarter, and some of their descendants are here to this day. Snow is 
continuany falling in the mountains of this district, and sometimes in the plaihs. 
The winter is very severe, but the summer heat moderate. Like Hindostan, 



MUZIFFEnABAD.] OF LA-HORE. 4§7 

Puckely has periodical rains. Here are three rivers ; the Kishengunga, the 
Behut, and the Sinde. The language of the inhabitants has no affinity with 
those of Cashmere, Zabulistan, or Hindostan. Nakhud and barlev are the most 
plentiful grains here. Apricots, peaches and walnuts grow wild. Formerly the 
Rajas of the country* were tributary to Cashmere.” 

The whole of this district in modern times lies to the east of the Indus, but” 
there is reason to suppose that it formerly also comprehended a tract to the west 
of that river. According to Mr. Elphinstone, the territory is at present parti- 
tioned into the following smaller subdivisions, viz. Drumtour, or the country of 
the Jadoons, possessed by a branch of the Yusefzei Afghans. North of it is 
Tumaul, a woody and mountainous tract, which confines on the north to Puckely 
Proper, a country of the same description, but much more extensive. It is in- 
habited by Sewadees or Swaties, and is under a governor appointed by the 
Afghan sovereign of Cabul. All these divisions stretch along the Indus, until 
hemmed in on the north by the snowy mountains. The common road from Cash- 
mere to the Indus lies through the Puckely territory; but the inhabitants are so 
notorious for a fierce and predatory disposition, that the route is generally 
esteemed too hazardous . — ( Elphinstone, Rennell, Forster, 8sc.) 

Drumtour. — ^This is a small valley between the 34th and 35th degrees of 
north latitude, extendihg along the Door rivulet, which runs S. W. and falls into 
the Indus near Torbaila. The mountains are lofty, and produce oaks, pines, 
walnuts, wild olives, and other hill trees, but none of the European fruits or 
flowers are found here. The country is tolerably inhabited, and contains some 
populous villages . — ( Elphinstone, S^c.) 

Torbaila. — A town in the Puckely district, situated on the east side of the 
Indus, where it is joined oy the small river Door. Lat. 34® 12' N. long. 
72® 46' E. The Indus here issues into the open country, and expanding over the 
plain forms numerous islands . — ( Elphinstone, 8^c.) 

Muzifferabad ( Muzafar-abad ). — To the east of Puckelj are the countries of 
the Bumbas, and Cukkas, both Mahommedan tribes. The former is under two 
or three chiefe styled Rajas, the principal .of. whom resides at Muzifferabad. 
Their territories consist of diflicult passes, vast mountains, and dense forests ; 
yet they form the only communication between Cabul and Cashmere. Lat. 
34* 36' N. long. 73° 45' E. -63 miles W. from the city of Cashmere. 

The town of Muzifierabad when visited by Mr Forster in 1783, was small, 
but populous,, and was then the residence of a chief entitled Sultan Mahmood. 
The face of the surrounding tjountry exhibits a continued view of mountains, on 
the sides of which patches of cultivated grouiul are seen, and scattered hamlets 
of three or four cottages. The inhabitants of the fVact denominated Bumbas, are 



488 

Jfahominedans of an Afghan 
beiu^- their nearest neig^hbours. ^ 


THE PROVINCE 


CAmcK. 


origin, and usually hostile to the Cadtoiimans, as 
The Kishengunga river runs to the left of this 


,o,v„ a coarse nearly S. W. and falls into the Jhjdam. among the moan- 
.a Ja. the head of the Pu^aK A — 

mrS “pt^dtd guided by U,e motion of the ley. The tomi 
between Cashmere and Muzifferabad, which is half way to the Indus, trends to 
the south-west, and leads over a country covered with mountains intersected 
by deep vallies. — C Forster, Elphinstone, Wth llegisUn', i^'C.) 

Chuch. — This small district, or valley, is situated at the north-west comer of 
the Lahore province, about the 34th degree of north latitude, and is bounded on 
the north and west by the Indus, and on the south by the Ghursheen river. This 
territory, and the adjacent district named Hazareh, contain many fertile plains, 
inhabited by Hindoos converted to the Mahommedan religion, and named Goo- 
jers. Among them also are many turbulent Afghans of various tribes, who are 
in fact masters of the country. Within its geographical limits, but beyond 
those of the valley, are situated the towns of Attock and Hussoo. Near Attock 
the plain of Chuch is flat and well cultivated, principally with wheat ; further 
east the country is of a wavy surface, generally dry and barren, and cut up by 
deep ravines ; but approaching the eastern border is the beautiful valley of Hu.s- 
seen Abdaul . — ( Elp/iinstone, ^c.) 

Attock (Atac, a limit ). — This town is situated on the east side of the Indus 
and to this day retains the ancient name of Varanas, or Benares ; but it is mort 
generally known by that of Attock. The old fortress was built by Acber, A. H. 
1581. Lat. 33° 6G' N. long. 71° 57' E. 


About ten miles to the north of Attock, the Indus is seen issuing tlirough the 
mountains by a number of channels, which are reduced to two when it receives 
tlie Cabul river. At this point of Junction there are many rocks, through which 
both rivers dash with great impetuosity and noise, but afterwards they collect 
into one bed, and proceed through the mountains with a deep but narrow 
stream, between high perpendicular banks of rock. When it reaches the fort 
of Attock the Indus is about 260 yards broad (on the 18th of June, 1809,) but 
the channel is too deep, and the current too rapid, to admit of its being accu- 
rately sounded. The banks are of black stone, polished by the force of the 
stream, and by the white sand it contains, so as to shine like marble. In the 
midst are the famous rocks of Jemalia and Kemalia, but the reported whirlpool 
does not rage in the month of June. 

The modern fort of Attock, the residence of the Afghan governor of the pro- 
vince, stands on a low hillock on the east bank. Its %ure is that of a parallelo- 



MAtri^ fiiii»sx.] OF LAHORE. 489 

giMO, hAtriug the shortest faces (those parallel to the river) about 400 yards 
and the other sides about double that extent. The walls are of polished 
stone ♦ but aldrough the place makes a handsome show, it is commanded by a 
rough hill, from which it is only separated by a ravine, and being situated on a 
slope, almost the whole of the interior, and the reverse of the walls on three 
faces, are visible from the opposite side. The town was formerly considerable, 
but is now much decayed. On the side of the Indus opposite to Attock is a 
small village distinguished by a kind of fort erected by Nader Shah, and a fine 
aqueduct made by some former chief of the Khuttick Afghan tribe, to irrigate 
the contiguous lands. Notwithstanding the rapidity of the river here, it is 
easily passed, both in boats and on the inflated hides of oxen. 

It is remarkable that the three great invaders of Hindostan, Alexander, Ti- 
mour, and Nadir Shah, in three distant ages, and with views and talents ex- 
tremely different, advanced by the same route with hardly any deviation. 
Alexander had the merit of discovering the way : after passing the mountains, 
he encamped at Alexandria Paropamisana, on the same site with the modern 
city of Candahar, and having subdued or conciliated the natives situated on the 
north-west bank of the Indus, he crossed the river at Taxila, now Attock, the 
only place where the stream is so tranquil that a bridge can be thrown over it. — 
( Eiphinstone, Rennell, Wilford, Dr. Robertson, i^c.) 

PiMDEE Makouleh. — A towu in the Lahore province, 18 miles E. from the 
Indus. Lat. 33“ 26' N. long. 71“ 59' E. 

Hussein Abdaul. — By this name a beautiful valley in the north-west comer 
of the Lahore province is designated, situated about 24 miles east from the 
Indus. Lat. 33° 65' N. long. 72° 26' E. 

The valley of Hussein Abdaul was always a favourite resting place of the 
Mogul emperors, during their annual migrations to Cashmere ; but the gardens 
and buildings have long gone to ruins. The tomb of a devout Mahommedan 
named Hussein Abdaul, which communicates the name, is partly composed of 
marble, and stands in a square enclosure. This person was a &mous saint of 
Candahar, there known by the appellation of Baba Wullee. The surname Ab- 
daul, in the Afghan language, signifies mad. In 1809, the hills to the south of 
the valley of Hussein Abdaul, formed the boundary of the Afghan dominions in 
this quarter of Hindostan. — ( Eiphinstone, Sgc.) 

Rawix Pindee. — This town is within the Seik territories, in the province of 
Lahore, lutuated about 68 miles £. from the river Indus. Lat. 33° 36' N. long. 
73® 46' E. Viewed from without it makes a handsome appearance, being com- 
posed of terraced houses, and is besides of considerable-extent and populous, 
^u the immedtate neighbourhood the country is open and under tolerable culti- 
voi. X. 3 a 



4aO THE PROVINCE [makictaia. 

ration ; but from Hussein Abdaul to Rawil Pindee, the country is generally 
uncultivated, and much intersected with deep ravines. The Mogul emperors 
cut a road through a ridge of hills, about half way between the two places, 
which remains in good repair. It is about three-quarters of a mile in length, 
and paVed with large masses of hard blue stone well fitted in to each other. 
The language spoken here by the Seiks is the dialect known by the name of the 
Punjauhne ; and from this place are usually dated the north western Acbars, 
or native newspapers, giving an account of the proceedings of the chiefs of 
Cabul, Khorasan^ Cashmere, Lahore, and Mooltan, and their predatory move- 
ments ; but they never can be depended on, being frequently the me . *6 invention 
of the writer, who at the same time aini!^ so little at diversifying his (hbneations, 
that with a very little alteration the news of any one year does for that of the 
succeeding one — ( Elphinstone, 8^c. ^-c.J 

CnucKowAL. — A town in the province of Lahore, G8 miles E. from the Indus. 
Lat. 33“ 4' N. long. 72“ 34' E. 

Pi XDEE Dadan Khax. — A town in the Laliore province, situated on the 
north bank of the Jhylum, 106 miles K. W. from the city of Lahore. Lat. 
32° 39' N. long.-72° 47' E. 

Meant f Miani ). — A- town in the Lahore jirovince, 104 miles N. W. from the 
city of Lahore. Lat. 32° 36' N. long. 72° 47 E. 

The Guckehs. — T he Gucker tribe are well known to history from the in- 
cessant trouble they used to occasion both to the Patan and Mogul emperors of 
Hindostan. They once possessed the whole country between the Indus and the 
Jhylum, or Hydaspes, but have been latterly expelled by the Seiks. They still, 
however, retain a high military reputation. The Gucker country produces vast 
quantities of grapes, which there grow wild, and droves of horses of a tolerably 
good breed are pastured. To the south-east the land is much cut up with deep 
ravines and torrent courses, and is, altogether, a strong country and very difficult 
to march through. The floods are so suddeq and copious, that the water has 
been known to rise in these narrow channels ten feet within a minute of time ; 
so that one part of an army may be almost instantaneously separated from the 
rest. The chief of the Guckers takes the name of Sultan, but the place of his 
residence has never been satisfactorily ascertained. A great many of the Gucker 
towns have been destroyed by the Seiks and now lie in ruins. — (ElphinsUme, 
S^c. ^c.) 

Manicyala.— -A village in the jGjucker district, but now possessed by the 
Seiks, situated about 72 miles east of the Indus, in lat. 83* 28' N. long. 73” 25' 
E. At this place there is a remarkable structure, which at first resembles a Ou- 
pola on a low mound, but on examination is found to be solid. The height firom 



D0AB2R SIKDE SACOa.] OF LAHORE. 491 

the top of the mound to the top of the building is 70 feet, and the circumference 
about 150 paces. It is built of large pieces of hard stone, common in the 
neighbourhood, mixed with smaller pieces of a sandy stone. The greater part 
of the outside is cased with the first mentioned stone, cut quite smooth, but in 
some parts it has either fallen down, or been left incomplete. The top is flat, 
and on it traces of the foundation of walls are discoverable, enclosing a space of 
11 paces long by 6 broad. In the appearance of this edifice there is nothing 
Hindoo, it approaching in the whole much nearer to the Grecian style of archi- 
tecture. By the natives it is called the tope or mound of Manipyala, and is said 
to have been built by the gods . — ( Elphimtone, ^'c,) 

Jelalpoor. — ^This town stands on the north bank of the Jhylum or Hydaspes 
river, which in the month of Julv, 1809, was found to be 1800 yards brosid, with 
a depth of 14 feet water. The two banks here present a striking contrast of 
appearance ; the iett having all the characteristics of the plain of the Ganges, 
being flat and rich like Bengal, while the right bank is formed by the end of the 
great salt range of hills, seen at Calabaugh on the Indus, and presents an extremely 
wild and rugged aspect. These mountains retain the red colour for which they 
are remarkable, and approach the edge of the river, which being divided by 
islands, agrees exactly with the description of the ancients, particularly Quintus 
Curtius’s delineation of the scene of the battle with Poms . — ( Elphinstone, ^c.) 

Rotas. — ^An extensive but strong fort on a low hill, belonging to the Seiks, in 
the province of Lahore, situated 107 nules N. N.W. from the city of Lahore. 
Lat. 33' N. long. 73“ 20' E.— (Elphimtone, %c.) 

Gujerat. — A town in the Lahore province, 60 miles north fi'om the city of 
Lahore. Lat. 32" 32' N. long. 73“ 55' E. 

Augur. — ^This is the name of a modem geographical subdivision of that portion 
ofthe province of Lahore situated between the Indus and Hydaspes, but respect- 
ing the topography of which very little is knovrn, except that, according to 
native reports, it contains several salt mountains, with which indeed the soil of 
this part of Hindostan is everywhere impregnated. It is situated between the 
32d anti 33 (j degrees of north latitude, has the Indus to the west, and Sinde 
Sagor to the south, is thinly inhabited, and contains no town of note. In some 
old maps it is named Ghepp or Dun Ghepp. 

Doabeh SiKDE Sagoh (SUidku &gara;.— This name is applied by Abul 
Fazel to d i«tingiiish the Doab of the Indus and Hydaspes or Jhylum, but properly 
refers to the southern portion of that natural division. In l582, he described it 
as follows : “ Circar Sinde Sagor, confining 42 mahals; measurement 1,409,979 
begahs; revenue 51,912,201 dams; seyurghal 4680 dams. This circar furnishes 
8553 cavalry, and 69,700 infentry.” The little desert of the Indus extends from 

3 R 2 





492 THE PROVINCE (taiA. 

north to south above 250 miles ; but the breadth varies, being in some places not 
more than 30, and in others above 100 miles broad. It occupies all ttot part of 
the country between the Hydaspes and the Indus, which is not overflowed by 
these rivers, and extends from the latitude of Ooch, where the inundated lands 
of both join, to the salt range of hills. In fact three-fourths of this Doab, 
including the above-mentioned district of Augur, come under the description of 
a desert. 

Sinde Sagor is in part possessed by the Seiks and partly by the Afghans , the 
latter portion being distinguished by the name of Leia, under which head further 
information will be found. Sinde Singh is the term by which the inhabitants of 
the districts under the Seiks approaching to the Indus are known, and Nakai 
Singh is the name given to the Seiks who reside in the province of Mooltan. 
With the leaders of the Seiks in these territories, the extent of their possessions, 
or the climate and productions of the country under their rule, we are little 
acquainted ; those in Mooltan, as well as those settled along the banks of the 
Jhylum, are said to be constantly engaged in predator) warfare, either with the 
officers of the Afghan government, or other Mahommedan chiefs, who have 
jaghires in this neighbourhood . — f Elphinstom, Sir John Malcolm, 8gc. Sgc.) 

Leia. — A town and district in the province of Lahore, the latter extending 
along the east bank of the Indus, and the first situated in lat. 30° 68' N. long. 
70° 30' £. about ten miles east from the main stream of the Indus. 

From Oodoo Ka Kote to the Kaheree ferry (31° 28' N.), a distance of 76 miles, 
is a narrow tract contested between the river and the desert. Many parts of it 
are cultivated, and produce good crops of wheat, barley, turnips, and cotton. 
The fields are enclosed either with hedges of dry thorn, hurdles of willow, or 
fences made of stiff reed mats supported by stakes. The houses are built of the 
same materials, and the farm yards exhibit great neatness, and here oxen are 
seen feeding on turnips. Some of the dwellings near the river are raised on 
strong posts, 12 or 15 feet high, as a precaution against inundation, which fre- 
quently submerges the country to the distance of 20 and 24 miles from the river’s 
bed. The banks of the Indus are rich, but the land remote from the river 
becomes a mere desert. Leia, the capital, is but a poor place, not containing 
above 500 houses, although it gives its name to the district. The usual residenct 
of the Haukim or governor is at Buckor (Bhukkur) near the Indus, or at Maun- 
kaira, a strong fort in the most desert part of the province. 

The manners, complexion, and appearance of the inhabitants of this district 
are superior to those of the more southerly quarters, and their dress more decent 
and booming, leaving no part of the body exposed. Within the limits of Leia 
there are many large villages, ornamented with handsome tombs, hot there are 



OF LAHORE. 


BHIIA.] 


4{IS 


no towns of note. It fonnerly belonged to the Balooches, but was afterwards 
conquered by the Afghans of Cabul. In 1809, the districts of Lek and Dera 
Ishmael Khan were governed by Mahommed Khan Suddoaei, and yielded 
together about 500,000 rupees per annum, of which three-fifths were paid to the 
Cabul Sovereign. At that date the governor's military force consisted of two 
battalions of matchlockmen, 5000 good horse, 30 guns, and two howitzers. 
Dawira Deen Punnah is a little pergunnah enclosed within the Leia territory, 
uid yields a revenue of 160,000 rupees per annum. 

To the north, Leia is bounded by the salt range, beyond which is a rugged and 
mountainous country inhabited by small ferocious tribes, of whom the most con- 
spicuous are the Kautirs, an Indian race, independent both of the Cabul 
Sovereign and of the Seiks. — ( Elphimtom, ^^c.) 

Maunkaira. a strong fortress in the province of Lahore, possessed by the 
Afghans, situated in the most desert part of Leia district, 80 miles N. from the 
city of Mooltan. Lat. 31® 21' N. long. 71° 15' E. 

Deeriah Khan. — A town in the Lahore province, situated on the east side of 
the Indus. Lat. 31° 63' N. long. 70° 45' E. 

Meerpoor. — A town in the Lahore province, 115 miles N. by W. from the 
city of Lahore. Lat. 31“ 12' N. long. 73° 38' E. 

Buckar (or Bhukkur ). — This is a small but flourishing town, and frequently 
the residence of the Haukim or governor of the Leia district on the part of his 
Cabul Majesty. It is situated within a few miles of the Indus, in lat. 31° 38' N. 
long. 70° 40' E. — ( Elphinstone, S^c.) 

Doabek Jinuut. — Concerning this natural subdivision of the Lahore province 
very little is knovm, except that it is bounded on the east by the Chinaub or 
Acesines, and on the west by the Jhylum or Hydaspes, the oblique distance from 
J^alpoor ghaut to Vizier Abad across the Doab being about 44 miles. Through-- 
out its whole ext«‘nt the surface is level and the »ci! goo*^. but the v'ountry is 
thinly inhabited, and the land mostly under pasturage. It contains no towns of 
note, and, like the rest of the Punjab, is at present under the domination of the 
Seiks. 

Bember. — A town in the Lahore province, 105 miles N. from the city of 
Lahore. Lat. 33“ 4' N. long. 74“ E. 

Mamcote (Mancata ). — A town in the Lahore province, 76 miles north from 
Amritsir. liat. 32“ 37' N. long. 74“ 65' E. This place stands on an eminence, 
skirted by a small river, and when visited by Mr. Forster in 1783, was tributary 
to the Raja of Jamboe, but has since devolved to the Seiks. 

Bhira.-^A town in the Lahore province, 82 miles N. W. from the city of 
Lahore, Let. 82“ lor N. long. 72“ 60' E. 





40^ THE PROVINCE [doabeh bakbt. 

Doabeh Rechtna. — This Doab is bounded by the Chinaub and Ravey rivers, 
and in every respect resembles the preceding, but our topographical informa- 
tion respecting both is so extremely defective, that they are merely inserted 
here to mark the geographical subdivisions of the Lahore province. The extent 
of Doabeb Rechtna (a name given by Abul Fazel) is considerable, its cultivation 
more attended to, and its population greater than that of Jinhut, as it contains 
several towns of note, such as Bissooly and Vizierabad, and Eminabad. 

JuNGSEAL. — A town in the Lahore province, 100 miles S. W. from the city of 
Lahore. Lat. 31® 6' N. long. 78® 25' E. 

Buddoo (Bitddhit ). — A village in the Lahore province, formerly tributary to 
the Raja of Jamboe. Lat. 22® 26' N. long. 75" E. 61 miles N. by E. from 
Amritsir. An annual fair is held here on the 11th of April. 

Bissolee ( Visavali ). — ^This town stands on the north-west bank of the Ravey, 
which is here about 120 yairds broad when the water is at t h lowest, and very 
rapid being so near to the hills. From Bellaspoor, fertile vallies, although not 
M'ide, extend to Bissolee, where high hills commence, which extend with little 
variation to the limits of Cashmere. In 1783, the town was fortified ana com- 
manded the entrance to the hills ; but at that date both town and district were 
tributary to the Jamboe Rajpoots, and at the present to Raja Runjeet Singh of 
Lahore. Bissolee is situate about 42 miles N. N. E. from Amritsir. Lat. 32" 
5' N. long. 75" 5' E. 

Vizierabad. — This town stands on the south eastern bank of the Chinaub, or 
Acesines, 58 miles N. from the city of Lahore. Lat. 32® 23' N. long. 73" 57' E. 
At some former period it was named Mouara. 

SoDEBAH. — ^A town in the Lahore province, 69 miles N. from the city of 
Lahore. Lat. 32° 26' N. long. 73" 59' E. 

Sealcote. — A town in the Lahore province, 72 miles N. by E. from the city 
of Lahore. Lat. 32® 35' N. long. 74® 20' E. 

Doabeh R^rrt (Bari, a residence ). — ^This Doab comprehends the low 
country beti^n the Ravey and Beyah rivers, and by Abul Fazel, in 1582, is 
described as follows : “ Circar Doabeh Barry, containing 62 mahals, measure- 
ment 4,580,002 begahs; revenue 142,820,183 dams, seyurghal 3,923,922 
dams.” This country is also named Manjha, and the Seik’s who inhabit it 
Manjha Singhs. It contains the cities of Lahore and Amritsir, and becomes in 
consequence the great centre of the power of the Seik nation. In 1806, Runjeet, 
Singh of Lahore, Futteh Singh of Allawal, and Joodh Singh of Ramgadia, were 
the principal chiefs of the country, but the first since that period has swallowed 
up all the others. Towards the mountains this territory is described as less 



AKBiTsin.] OF LAHORE. 495 

fBitile than the Doabeh JalUnder, it must however from its geographical position 
possess nearly the same climate and soil.— ('5/> John Malcolm, Abul Fazel, 

Battalah (or Vatala). — This is a large town, and stands in an open plain, 
about 26 miles N. E. from Amritsir. Lat, 31® 48' N. long. 75® 6' E. It is 
surrounded, by groves of mangoe trees and tanks of water, and is considered the 
healthiest plain in the Punjab. There is an excellent plum grows at this place 
named Aloocha ; the apples also are larger and better than in most other parts 
of Hindostan. The hills lie about 70 miles distant, and in winter are covered 
with snow.— 1th Register, Sgc.) 

Ambitsib (A^mrita Saras, the foutHain of tiectar). — The capital of the Seik 
nation and holy city of their religion, situated in lat. 31“ 33' N. long. 74*48' E. 
44 miles E. from Lahore. This is an open town, about eight miles in circum* 
ference. The streets are narrow, and the houses in general good, being lofty 
and built of burned bricks, but the apartments are confined, Amritsir is the 
grand emporium of trade for the shawls and saffron of Cashmere, and a variety 
of other commodities from the Deccan and eastern part of India. The Raja 
levies an excise on all the merchandize sold in the town, according to its value. 
The manufactures of the place are only a few coarse cloths and inferior silks. 
Owing to its being the resort of many rich merchants and the residence of 
bankers, Amntsir is considered as a place of opulence. The Seik Raja has built 
a new fort, which he has named after himself Runjeet Ghur, and he has also 
brought a narrow canal from the Ravey, a distance of 34 miles. 

Amritsir, or the pool of immortality, from which the town takes its name, is 
a basin of about 135 paces square, built of burned bricks, in the centre of which 
stands a temple dedicated to Gooroo Govind Singh. In this sacred place is 
lodged, under a silken canopy, the book of laws writen by that Gooroo. There 
are from 5 to 600 akalies, or priests, belonging to this temple, who are supported 
by contributions. When Ahmed Shah Abdalli came to Amritsir, he overthrew 
their temple twice, and killed cows and threw them into the water in order to 
defile it. Runjeet Singh has a mint here, at which different coins are struck in 
the name of their greatest saint Baba Nanak Shall. Good camels, and occasion- 
ally horses, are to be purchased here, the first at 50 rupees each. These valuable, 
patient, and ill used animals are brought down with rock salt from a mine about 
80 miles north of Lahore. Strings of 600 are seen on the road, with a large lump 
resembling a block of unwrought marble slung on each side. 

Some Seik authorities ascribe the foundation of Amritsir to Gooroo Ramdass, 
(who died A. D. 1681), which is not swrrect, as it was a very ancient town known 
formerly under the name of Chak. Gooroo Ramdass added much to its popula- 
tioa, and built die &mou8 tank, or reservoir, muned Amritsir, which in the course 



496 THE PROVINCE [doabeh mlukdm. 

of time became the name of the towui it having been for some time called Ram* 
dasspoor , — (Sir John Malcolm, Wtk Register, &;€.) 

Nubpoor. — Situated in lat. 31“ 68' N. long, 76® 22' E. 44 miles N, N. E. 
from Amritsir. The town of Nurpoor is situated on the top of a hill, which is 
ascended' by stone steps, and in 1783 had the appearance of opulence and 
industry. Towards the S. E. the country is open and pleasant, with a winding 
stream of fine water, the heat being much moderated by the cool breezes from 
the northern hills, which during a considerable part of the year are covered with 
snow. The Nurpoor districts are bounded on the north by the Ravey ; on the 
east by the Chambah country ; on the west bjr some small Hindoo districts, 
lying at the head of the Punjab and the river Beyah ; and on the south by 
Hurreepoor. In 1783, the revenues of Nurpoor were estimated at 4 lacks of 
rupees; but in 1810 at only two lacks and a half. According to native auUio* 
rities Nurpoor then contained 7500 houses, and 60 looms occupied in the 
manufacture of Cashmere shawls. The present chief, named Beer Singh, is what 
is called a Pathaniya Rajpoot. 

CALAifORE. — At this town the Emperor .Acber was first proclaimed, in 1666, 
on the death of his father Humayoon. It stands in lat. 32® 1' N. long. 74® 
63' E. 30 miles N. from Amritsir. 

Dzbalpoor (Dcvalayapura). — This town is, situated in the Doab formed by 
the aggregated waters of the Sutuleje and Beyah on the one side, with those of 
the Ravey on the other, and in 1582 was the capital of a district described by 
Abul Fazel as follows : “ Circar Debalpoor, containing 29 mahals ; revenue 
129,334,153 dams; seyurghal 2,079,170 dams. This circar furnishes 6210 
cavalry, and 53,300 infantry.” The town of Debalpoor stands about 76 miles 
S. S. W. from the city of Lahore, in lat. 30® 39' N. long. 73® 37' E. and wiUi 
the adjacent country is subject to the Seik chief Raja Runjeet Singh. 

Paukputtun (the pure city).— A town in the Lahore province, 100 miles 
S. S. W. from the city of Lahore. Lat. 30® 21' N. long. 73® 16' E. Near to 
Paukputtun is the tomb of Sheik Furreed, which was visited by Timour. 

MuLKAN.r-A town in the Lahore province, 96 miles S. S. W,. from the city 
of Lahore. Lat. 30® 27' N. long. 73® 13' E. 

Doabeh Jallinder (Jalindra ), — ^This Doab is concluded between the 
Sutuleje and Beyah rivers, and the mountsunous district of Cahlore, or Ghahlore. 
By Abul Fazel, in 1682, it is described as follows ; “ Circar Doabeh Beit Jallin- 
der. containing 60 mahals; measurement 3,279,302 begahs. revenue 124,366,212 
dams; seyurghal 2,661,788 dams. This nircar furnishes 4166 cavalry, and 
79,536 infantry.” 

This natural subdivision of the Lahore province, although of mudl dimensions, 



iAZ.ttiri>Kit.] OF LAHORE. 497 

k firom the peculiarity of it» geographical poaititm of considerable importance, 

M it is by this route that the imperial province of Delhi is to be most conveniently 
pmwtrated, riie extent of fertile country being here circumscribed by the hills 
on the east and the desert on the west. It is also the most fruitful portion of 
the Srik territory, and is not excelled in climate and strength of vegetation by 
any province in India. The soil is light but very productive, and the country, 
wl^h is open and level, abounds with every kind of grain. The want of water, 
which is so much felt in the more westerly regions, is here unknown, as it is 
found everywhere in abundance, within two or three feet of the surface. The 
principal towns are Jallinder, Rahoon, and Bhutty. 

This territory is principally occupied by the Malawa Singh Seiks, who are 
called the Doabeh Singhs, or Singhs who dwell between two rivers. With these 
chiefe we are but little acquainted. In 1808, Tarah Singh was one of the most 
considerable, but he seems to have disappeared so early as 1812, when Boodh 
Sing^ of Jallinder, Futteh Singh of Allowalia, and Jodh Singh of Rumguria, were 
the principal leaders. In that year Runjeet Singh of Lahore, taking advantage 
of their internal discord, attacked the possessions of the first and captured his 
two principal fortresses Jallinder and Bhutty. It is worthy of remark as illus- 
trating the political state of the Seik community, that the instruments employed 
in the subjugation of this territory were the two chiefs last named, whose forces 
formed the largest body of cavalry in Runjeet's army, yet a defensive alliance 
was believed to exist between these three chiefs' to resist conjointly the aggres- 
sions of Runjeet Singh. Under these circumstances two of them followed his 
standard to effect the destruction of the third, swayed by the delusion of pro- 
tracting for a short period their own downfall. On the other hmrd, the pride of 
Boodh Singh, the first mentioned, induced him to abandon without a struggle 
a tract of country pelding a revenue of 3 lacks of rupees per annum, rather than 
submit to a personal attendance on Runjeet Singh. — (Sir David OchtcrUmy, Sir 
John Maicobn, Abut Fazel, ^'c. %c.) 

jAiiI<iyDXii.-~*This was formerly a residence of the Afghans, wd is still 
inhmhi^ by some of their descendants subject to the Seiks. Lat. 31® 18' lljr. 
long. 76*40' E. 62 miles S, E. from Amritsir. The modem houses are mostly 
cmistroct^ from the ruinous muterials of the houses formerly inhabited by the 
A^umt. In 1808, Jallinder was held in jaghire by two brothers at war witii 
oriier, in consequence of which they kept up a comtant discharge of fire 
arms during the day, and at night set fire to each others com fields. It was 
ultimstdiy subdu ed by Runjeet, whose practice was to restore the towns and 
their depmid«aci«s to their former proprietors, where he met with im opposititm. 
to be held by ffiem as jaghires.— < 1 FigUter, 
v«« r. 3 s 



498 THE PROVINCE [badarvall. 

Si LTANPooE — A town in the Lahore province, 27 miles S. from Amritsir. 
Lat. 31“ 13' N. long. 74° 56' E. 

BjiiB,pwAi.. — This place stands on the north side of the Beyah river, which, 
when at jts highest, is 740 yards across. Lat. 31° 20' N. long. 75° 5' E. 24 miles 
S. E. from An»ritsir. 

Duttab. — A town in tiie province of Lahore, 60 miles E. from Amritsir. 
Lat. 311 33' N. Jong. 75° 49' E. 

Rayghaut. — 'A town in the Lahore province, 38 miles E. from Amritsir. 
Lat. 31° 34' N. long. 75° 27' E. 

Tulwundy. — T he birth place of Nanock Shah, the high priest and legislator 
of the Seiks. Lat. 31° 15' N. long. 75“ E. 20 miles S. S. E. from Amritsir. 

Raiioon ( or Rahn ). — ^This place is but a few miles distant from the Sutuleje, 
which in the month of April has here the appearance of a canal running in two 
channels," the first fordable, and in breadth about 100 yards ; the second is 350 
yards across, the water deep, but not rapid. When the floods are at the highest 
the stream here is said to expand to the great width of one mile and a half. 
From Rahoon, baftas and piece goods are carried to the fair at Hurdwar. The 
town stands in lat. 31° 1' N. long. 76° E. about 20 miles N. N. E. from Ludee* 
anna. — (Wth Register, Raper, ^x.j 

Macowal ( Makhaval ). — ^This was the first town acquired by the Seiks, during 
the government of their priest militant Gooroo Govind. , Lat. 31° 5' N. long. 76° 
21' £: 40 miles N. £. from Ludeeanna. It is also named Anundpoor Macowal. 

Kishtewar (Cashthttoar, abounding in mod ), — A town and district in the 
north ea6tem,extremity of the Lahore province, bounded on three sides by the 
Cashmere and Himalaya mountains. The town is situated in lat. 33° 58' N. 
long. 76° 9' E. about 85 miles E. S. E. from the city of Cashmere. Resp«;tmg 
this remote quarter very little is known, except that it is very hilly and woody, 
as Its name imports, but thinly peopled, and liable to extreme cold during the 
depth of winter. It is intersected by the Chinaub river, which has its source in 
the north east comer, and is in some places 70 yards broad, with a rapid current. 
At the village of Nausman it is crossed in a basket slung to a rope, which is 
pulled along with its goods and passengers, and then back again. In 1783, this 
was one of the few independent Hindoo districts remaining in India, yet the 
chief was a Mahommedan. It probably still remains independent, its rugged 
surface and harsh climate presenting few attractions to invaders.--<'ibfster, 
^c. 8sc,) 

Badarwall . — k town in the Kohistan of Lahore, 40 miks S. S. from the 
city of Cashmere. Lat. 33° 36' N. long. 75° 37' E. 



JAHBOE.] OF LAHORE. 499 

Palkah (PaUce). — town in the Kohistan, or Idghlands of Lahore, 110 
miles S. £. from Cashmere. Lat. 33* 10' N. long. 75° 55' £. 

CRAieoAHMEE (or Chimanee). — In 1783, the district attached to this town 
oommmiced in the vicinity of Nagrolah, and then yielded a revenue of about 
a lack of rupees to its petty prince, who was a dependent on the chief of 
Jamboe, who received his quota of troops in lieu of tribute. The town of Chan- 
dahnee is situated in lat. 33° 21' N. long. 76° 6' E. about 76 miles S. by E. from 
Cashmere city, and in 1783, w'as a neat and populous town. It stands on the 
brow of a hill, at the foot of which on the eastern side runs a rapid stream 
passing to the left. This channel is crossed on two stout fir beams, one of which 
reaches from the shore to an insulated rock in the centre of the river, to which 
it is fastened by wooden stakes, while the other extends from the rock to the 
opposite bank. At Dammomunjee in this district is an uncommonly beautiful 
and fertile valley. — ( Forster, S^'c.) 

Jamboe fJffffiWwj. — A town and petty principality in the Kohistan of the 
Lahore province, the first situated in lat. 32° 56' N. long. 74* 38' E. 97 miles 
N. from Amritsir. The limits of the Jamboe Raja’s territories fluctuate greatly 
according to circumstances, and he is generally tributary to the Seiks. In 1783, 
the revenues of this principality were estimated at five lacks of rupees, besides 
the produce of Buddoo and Chandahnee, or Chinnanee. The face of the 
country is hilly and woody, and the greater portion thinly inhabited, owing to 
the incursions of the Seiks and predatory habits of the natives. The road to the 
city of Jamboe in a south-west direction, lies through a defile of sand for many 
miles, the sides of which consist of lofty rocks nearly perpendicular. 

The town of Jamboe stands on the side of a hill, and contains two distinct 
divisions, which are termed the upper and the lower towns. The bottom of the 
hill is washed by the Ravey, here about 40 or 50 yards broad, and fordable at 
most seasons of the year, with many water mills on its banks for grinding corn. 
In 1783, Jamboe was a town of considerable commercial resort, as it was then 
an entrepot between Cashmere and Hiudostan ; but so many changes have since 
that date taken place, that the trade has also probably undergone some mutation. 
The shawls then exported from Cashmere by this route were packed in bales of a 
certain weight and ascertained value, and were not subsequently opened until 
tt«y reached their destined market. These bales were usually carried by men, 
natives of Cashmere, the precipitous nature of the country precluding the 
employment of cattle for that purpose. Jamboe is noted for producing a white 
mulberry of an exquisite flavour. 

How this little territory acquired a name (Jambhu) which in the ancient Hindoo 
myUtological poems is used to designate all India (Jambhu Dwipa), we are not 

3 s 2 



500 THB moVUSCE [«4W»a. 

informed. In some of flieie canpoutimM aUuiUm is made to a tomide of toe 
sun in Metrabana on toe liver Ob«tidiiitoa|;a(toe Chiaaito, w Aoeamto). altafod 
by modem pundits to have been mtuatod some where near the modem tmm of 
Jamboe. The ancient Jambhu Owipa is described as having been sarrounded by 
a salt s^ and k is possible that the ocean may at one time have reached to toe 
base of 'these mountains, forming the high table lands into islands.— 

F- Buciomia, (§ip. ^'c.) 

Bebduroo.— A small district in the Kohistan of Lahore, situated to toe 
north of Chamba, but respecting which nothing further is known. 

Chamba (Champa ), — North of Noorpoor is an extensive territory, situated cm 
both sides of the Ravey, and called Chamba. According to native authority a 
long ridge of mountains, covered with perpetual snow, separates from the great 
Himalaya chain near the source of the Beyah, and extending to the south-fast, 
passes near Kangra, then crosses the Bavey, and finally bends to the north-west 
towards Cashmere. This ridge, called Pariyat, in general forms the south-east 
boundary of Chamba, but on its south side, the chief possesses a territory called 
Rilloo. The portions of Chamba situated to the south of the Pariyat mountains 
are very cold, and it is said have several communications with Tibet. The 
exact situation of the town of Chamba has not yet been ascertained, but the 
latest maps place it in lat. 32* 17' N. long. 76® 51 E. 100 miles N. E. from 
Amritsir. — ( F. Buchanan, S^c. ^'c.) 

Kabo BA ( Khankara ). — ^An ancient town and district situated in the Kohistan 
of the Lahore province, and variously named Kote Caungrah and Nagorcote. 
By Abul Fazel, in 1582, it is described as follows : 

« Nagorcote is a city placed on a high mountain with a fort named Kangrah. 
In toe vicinity of this city upon a lofty mountain is a place called Maha Maya, 
which toey (the Hindoos) consider as one of the works of the divinity, and come 
in pilgrimages to it from great distances, thereby obtaining the accomplishment 
of their wishes. It is most wonderful, that in order to effect tois, they cut out 
their tcmgues, which grow again in the course of two or three days, and some- 
tones in a few hours. Physicians believe that whmi the tongue is cut out it will 
grow again ; but nothing except a miracle can effect it so speedliy as is hture 
mentioned.** 

the torb^ss of Kangra (Cote Kangrah) is situated in lat 32* 15* N. kmg. 
yO* S' £. 90 miles N. E. from Amritsir. The town Kangra is opim» and 
b^re the attack of Ammer Smg^, ccmtained about 3,000 booses. In the 
neighbourhood was the frmous Hindoo temple above described, whidi was of 
great celebrity when the Mahmsiinedans fiirst invaded Hindostan, and vtoich stiU 
fdains its leputatom fin sanctity. By the Hindoos it is named Juwala MttdhL 



VAWWE.] OP UHORB. 501 

Tbi BnqpiMr Mtn Mow^lialied tiie redvction «wt taer « siege of « 
wlw^ jwt» he cmamtiided io perstm. and he subsequenidy bestowed it on 
an offioto who had distinguished himself. In 1783, the revenue of the territory 
attached to this town was estimated at seven lacks of rupees per annum* 
Altiiough most parts of toe Kangra country are high, the ascents from toe plains 
below are not precipitous, and toe summits of the hills are level, so tliat a 
large proportion is fit for cultivation, and occupied. There is plenty *ugar 
cane, winch re<|uires a 'warm climate, and rice is so abundant as to be exported 
to Lahore; but toe poor live mostly on maize. None of the original unconverted 
tribes remain ; the Jaut is said to be the most numerous. 

After the conquest of Serinagur in 1803 by the Nepaolese, their army pro- 
ceeded in toe direction of Lahore, but were stopped in their progress by tbitt 
fortress, which then belonged to Raja Sunsar Chund. It is situated on a steep 
mountain, about 30 miles to the west of the Beyah river, is well supplied with 
water, and contains ground sufficient to yield a subsistence to the garrison con- 
sisting of 3 or 4,000 men. Finding it impossible to effect its reduction by a 
coup-de-main, the siege was converted into a blockade, which continued with 
more or less strictness until 1810, when theGorkhas, under Ammer Sigh Tbappa, 
were compelled to raise the siege by the approach of an army under Raja 
Runjeet Singh of Lahore. For -this assistance the Kangra Raja paid dearly, as 
he was obliged to cede both the town and fortress of Kangra and the fort of 
Kotta to Runjeet, with a territory to the value of 50,000 rupees per annum. At 
that time Qholaum Mahommed the Rohillab, who fought against Sir Robert 
Abercrombie in 1794, served in the pay of the Kangra Raja. 

In 1810, the Raja of Kangra, Sunsar Chund, forwarded an address to Lord 
Minto, purporting that in the event of toe Punjab country coming under toe 
Biituh dominion, he might be guaranteed in the territory then held by him, as 
well as of toe places which had been wrested from him by the Nepaulese. He 
was informed in reply that the British government entertained no design of 
iavading toe Punjab, or of subjugating the Seiks, being always disposed to 
toe relations of amity with all the surrounding chiefs and states, unless 
tlnnr hostile conduct compelled an apiipal to arms, and that under these circum- 
stanoM his Lmdtoip was precluded from a compliance with the Riga’s appU- 
catfcito---{'ibr\rf«r, F. Buchanan, Str D. Ochteriontf, ^c.) 

Nadoke (Nadaun ), — One of the principal towns of the Kangra country, of 
which it is at present toe capital, and standing on the south side ot toe Beyah 
tivm, fiT miles E. N. E. from Amritsir. lat, 3P 55' N. long. 76“ 11 E. The 
district attached to Nadone is a mountainous tract of country, which borders on 
too Rttojabj and is at present tributary to Raja Runjeet Su^ of I^re. In 
R nm ermrm by the Oodtois cd Neswub iidio then obtained poaiesaiaA of 



THE PROVINCJE 


m 


[COOLOO. 


the town, from which they were subsequently expelled. The town is seid tb 
coutain only 600 houses . — (Sir John Makolm, Forster, Sgc, 8^.) 

SujANPOOK. — considerable town containing about 2,000 houses, situated on 
the east bank of the Beyah river, 30 miles E. Kangra. According to native au< 
thorities it is surrounded by lines 12 coss in circumference. — (F. BtKhanan, Sgc.) 

JwALAMUKiii. — This was a cunsiderable town, where many Gossain mer- 
chants had settled ; but during the disturbances it was plundered by the Raja of 
Guiar, who had joined Ammer Singh. It stands about 30 miles S. £. of Kangra. 
At this place, where, in the dispersion of her members, the tongue of the goddess 
Parvati fell, there is a small temple about 20 feet square. According to native 
accounts it is paved with large stones, and from a hole in one comer there issues 
a constant flame, which when at the lowest rises about 18 inches; but in the 
rainy season it is said to issue with great violence, flame bursting from several 
parts of the floor, and also from places beyond the limits of the temple. — 
(F. Buchanan, 8^'c.) 

Hurreepoor — This is the principal town belonging to a petty 

chief, named the Raja of Guiar; and in 1810 was reckoned to contain from 1,000 
to 1,500 houses. Lat. 31° 57' N. long. 75° 65' E, 73 miles N. E. from Amritsir. 
The Raja of Guiar is tributary to Runjeet Singh of Lahore. 

Seebaii (Siva ). — ^The capital of a small mountainous district, situated about 
65 miles E. N. E. from Amritsir. Lat. 31° 48' N. long. 75° 52' E. It stands on 
the brink of a rivulet, and is fortified. 

CooLoo (Culu ). — ^According to native authorities the country of Cooloolies 
due north of Kangra, and is separated from Chamba by the Pariyat mountains. 
It is watered in the centre by the Beyah, but the territory extends to the 
Sutuleje. It is said to be cold, mountainous, and barren, but furnishing much 
sheep pasture, and there is said to be a good communication from hence to 
Tibet. 

In 1814, the Raja Beckram Sen of Cooloo availed himself of the troubled state 
of the country to the east of the Sutuleje, to obtain possession of some strong 
holds, from which, after the expulsion of the Gorkhas by the British arms, it 
became necessary to dislodge him. A correspondence in consequence took 
place between him and the British commissioner, Lieut. Ross, which, after con- 
siderable demur, and the necessity of menacing him with the employment of 
force, terminated in his evacuating the posts east of that river, except one or 
two, his right to which was admitted. Some barren peaks, which the Cooloo 
Raja wished to retain, were considered by him of much more importance, than 
their appearance indicated, from their being situated within the protection of the 
British government, which is preduded by treaty from crossii^^ the Sutule^. 
These ^ts he considered as so many asylums for himself and su^ect' attd 



MUNDi.] OFUHORE. ‘503 

depositaries for their effects, As soon as this question was settled, and no risk 
existed of a mark of favour being misconstrued, the British commissioner was 
authorized to make him a pecuniary donation of 5000 rupees, as a compensation 
for expenses incurred during the campaign against the Gorkhas, in which he 
had co-operated, and he was at the same time presented with some articles of 
European manufacture. 

About twenty-five years ago, Cooloo was the principal channel through which 
the shawl trade was carried on with Upper Hindostan, and the raw material 
from Lahdack still passes through Cooloo, from whence by a skilful arrangement 
it might be made to pass into the British dominions, in place of the more expen- 
sive and circuitous route of kmMx,— (Public MS. Documents, LkuuRoss, 
F. Buchanan, Igc. ^. ) 

MuNDi.—Southfrom Cooloo is Mundi, said to be a smaller country, but of 
superior fertility, and possessing one mine of iron, and another of culinary salt, 
probably rock salt and full of impurities. The two mines are said to y eld the 
Raja 150,000 rupees per annum, and the land revenue about the same amount. 
The chiefs name in 1810 was Iswari Sen, and his capital Mundi was then 
reckoned to contain 1,000 houses. Camaulghur situated on a great hill towards 
the southern frontier is reckoned a strong place.-~{jP. Buchanan, fy.) 

SuKAinfMAe/fl.J—This is a narrow territory extending along the north 
bank of the Sutuleje river, which here by a great circumfiexion flows from the 
south-east to the north-west. In 1810, the country was said to produce its chief, 
Raja Perkaush Sen, a lack of rupees per annum, but it possessed no mines. 
Si^d the capital contains about 500 houses.-~('f. Buchanan, Lieut. Ross, ^r.) 



THE PROVINCE OF CASHMERE. 

(CASMIRA.) 


Tkf. valley of Cashmere is comprehended between the 34th and 35th degrees 
of north latitude, and surrounded by lofty mountains which separate it from 
Little Tibet on the north ; from Lahdack on the east ; from Lahore on the south ; 
and Puckely on the west. On the north-west a branch of the Speen, or white 
Caffres, approaches Cashmere. The valley is of an elliptic form and widens 
gradually to Islamabad, where the breadth is about 40 miles, which is continued 
with little variation to the town of Sampre, whence the mountains by a regular 
inclination to the westward come to a point and separate Cashmere from Mu- 
zifFerabad. Including the surrounding mountains, Cashmere may be estimated 
at 110 miles in length by 60 the extreme breadth; the figure nearly an oval. 
The limits of Cashmere towards the west, adjoining Muziiferabad, are terminated 
by a low thick wood, the edge of which is skirted by a rivulet ; and on the other 
side rises a cliain of lofty mountains stretching to the north and south. There 
are seven passes into the province, four from the south, one from the west, and 
the remaining two from the north. That of Bember is the best, but that of 
Muzifferabad is most frequented. By Abul Fazel in 1582, this province is de- 
scribed as follows 

« The Boubah of Cashmere is situated partly in the third and partly in the 
fourth climate. It is composed of Cashmere, Bhember, Sewad, Bijore, Canda- 
har, and Zabulistan (Cabul). Formerly it had Ghizni, but now it has Cabut for 
its capital. The length from Kimberdine to Kishengunge is 120 coss, and the 
breadth from 10 to 25 coss. On the east lies Peeristaun and the river Chinaub ; 
on the south-east Bankul, and the mountains of Jummoo ; on the north-east 
Great Tibet; on the west Puckoli and Kishengunge ; on the south-west the ter- 
ritory of Gucker ; and on the north-west Little Tibet. It is encompassed on all 
aides with lofty mountains. There are 20 roads into Hindostan, but those of 
Bomber and Puckoli are the best, being passable for horses.” 

The whole of Cashmere represents a garden in perpetual spring, md the for 
tifications with which nature has furnished it are of anjastoniihing heif^t. The 
water is nmarkably good, and the cataracts are m^fiiifiecnt It ratns and snows 



OF CASHMERE. 505 

here at the same season, as in Tartary and Persia ; and during the periodical 
runs in Hindostan, light showers also fhll here. The land is partly marshy, the 
rest well watered by streams and lakes. Violets, roses, narcissuses, and innu- 
merable other flowers grow wild. Earthquakes are very frequent, on which 
account the houses are built of wood. The inhabitants subsist chiefly on rice, 
fresh and dried fish, and vegetables, and they drink wine. Their horses are 
small, but hardy ; they breed neither camels nor elephants, both being unsuited 
to the nature of the country. In their cities and towns are neither snakes, 
scorpions, nor other venemous reptiles ; but the country in general abounds with 
flies, gnats, bugs, and lice. Most of the trade of the country is earned on by 
water, but great burdens are also transported on men’s shoulders, 

“ The Cashmerians have a language of their own, but their books are written 
in the Sanscrit tongue, although the character be sometimes Ca.shmerian. They 
write chiefly upon tooz, which is the bark of a tree. The Mahommedans are 
partly Sunnies, and others are of the sects of Ali and Noorbukshay. There are 
many delightful singers, but they want variety. The Hindoos regard the whole 
of Cashmere as holy land : 45 places are dedicated to Siva ; 64 to Vishnu ; 3 to 
Brahma ; and 22 to Durga, the wife of Siva. In 700 places, figures of snakes 
are carved, which they also worship. 

“ Although formerly government was said to take only a third of the produce 
of the soil, yet in fact the husbandman was not left in the enjoyment of nearly 
one third. His Majesty (Acber) has now commanded that the crops shall be 
equally divided between the husbandman and the state. There are but few 
troops in Cashmere, the native standing army being only 4892 cavalry, and 
92,400 infantry. 

“ The ancients divided Cashmere into two parts only, calling the eastern di- 
vision Meraje, and the western, Kamraje. In the history of Cashmere, it is 
■said, that in the early ages of the world, all Cashmere, except the mountains, 
was covered with water, and was then named Suttysir. Sutty is one of the 
names of Siva’s wife, and sir signifies a reservoir. In the year of the Hijera 
948 (A. D. 1541), Mirza Hyder was sent against Cashmere by the Emperor Hu- 
mayoon, and, by the help of some of the natives, conquered the whole of that 
country, wid part of Great Tibet.” Such is the description of this interesting 
province as it existed 238 years ago, since which period, it has probably, in every 
respect, greaBy retrograded. 

The lower range of mountains which surround Cashmere are of a moderate 
height, ai^ covered with trees and verdure, affording excellent pasturage for all 
sorts of cattle and wild graminivorous animals, and containing none of the larger 
and nunre ferocious carnivorous animals, such as lions and tigers. Beyond this 

VOL. I. 3 T 



THE PROVINCE 


506 

range are mountains of a more stupendous elevation, whose snow clad tops, 
soaring above the clouds and fogs, appear perpetually bright and luminous. By 
ascending from the plains up the mountains, any degree of cold may be at- 
tained. From these mountains flow innumerable cascades and rivulets, which 
the inhabitants conduct through their rice fields for the purposes of irrigation, 
and in their course form small lakes and canals, the junction of which afterwards 
forms streams navigable for boats of considerable magnitude, even within the 
limits of Cashmere, and increasing as they flow southward from the Jhylum 
or Hydaspes, one of the largest rivers by which Hindostan is fertilized. Among 
these mountains are many romantic vallics, the inhabitants of which have 
scarcely any communication with those of the plains, and on account of their 
poverty and inaccessible residence have never been subjugated by any jf the 
conquerors who have devastat<»d Cashmere. The religion of these primitive 
tribes is unknown, but it is probably some modification of the Brahminical, or 
Buddhist tenets. 

The valley of Cashmere i.s celebrated throughout Asia for the romantic beauty 
of its situation, the fertility of its soil, and the temperature of its atmosphere. 
It is generally of a level surface, and being co])iously watered, yields abundant 
crops of rice, which is the common food of the inhabitants. The facility of pro- 
curing water insures the crop against the injuries of a drought, and the mildness 
of the climate against the scorching eflect of the sun. Near the base of the 
surrounding hills wdiere the land is higher, wheat, barley, and various other 
grains are cultivated. In this province arc found most of the plants, fruits, 
flow'crs, and forest trees, common to Europe, particularly the apple, pear, plum, 
apricot, and nut trees, and abundance of grapes ; and in the gardens are many 
kitchen herbs peculiar to cold countries. A superior sort of safiVon is also cul- 
tivated in Cashmere, and iron of an excellent quality is found in the mountains. 
The sengerah, or water nut which grows in the lakes, forms a considerable por- 
tion of the food of the lower classes. Many lakes are spread over the country, 
and there is a tradition, which appearances tend to confirm, that the Cashmere 
valley was once the bed of a large lake w'hich at last opened itself a passage into 
Hindostan by the river Jhylum. Besides this river w'hich intersects the whole 
province from east to west, there are numberless mountain streams supplied by 
the rains, which fall with great violence from June to October, forming many 
cascades and small cataracts which are precipitated into the valley, where the 
periodical rains are described as only descending in gentle showers. 

The wealth and fame of Cashmere have greatly arisen from the manufacture 
of shawls, the wool of which is not the growth of the country, but brought from 
the high table land of Tibet, where alone the shawl goat producing it will thrive. 



OF CASHMERE. 


507 

Neither the Delhi emperors, who made various attempts to introduce this species 
of goat into the upper provinces of India, nor the sovereigns of Persia, whose 
dominions were still more favourably situated, have ever been able to succeed 
in procuring wool of an equally fine quality with that of Tibet. The Persian 
shawl, from the wool of Kerman, comes nearer the Cashmere shawl than the 
English. This raw material of the Cashmere shawl is rather a down than a 
wool, being protected by the exterior coarse hair. It is originally of a dark 
grey colour, and is bleached in Cashmere by the help of a preparation of rice 
flower. That from Rodauk is reckoned the best, and the price in Cashmere is 
from ten to twenty rupees per turruk; a w’eight supposed equal to about 12 
pounds, and the whitest is most in demand. It is difficult to fix with any ac- 
curacy the number of shawls manufactured in the year. The number of looms 
(each occupying 3 men) employed, is said to be 10,000. Supposing, on an 
average, five shawls of all descriptions made at each shop or loom annually, 
the total would amount to 80,000, which is probably not very remote from the 
truth. The following is the process : — 

The .shop consists of a kind of frame work, at which the persons employed 
sit on a bench, in number from 2 to 4. On plain shawls only two persons are 
employed ; and a long, narrow, but heavy shuttle is used : those of which the 
pattern is variega,tcd are worked with wooden needles, there being a separate 
needle for the threads of each colour ; for the latter no shuttle is required. The 
operation of their manufacture is slow proportioned to the quantity of work in 
the patterns. 

The oostaud, or head workman, superintends, while his journeymen are em- 
ployed near him under his directions. If they have any new pattern in hand, 
or one with which they arc not familiar, he describes to them the figure, colour* 
and threads that arc to be used, while he keeps before him the pattern on which 
they happen to be employed, drawn on paper. During the operation, thorough 
side of the shawl is uppcrmo.st on the frame, notwithstanding which, the head 
workman never mistako.s tlie regularity of the mo.st finished patterns. A shop 
may be occupied with one shawl above a year, provided it be a remarkably fine 
one, while other shops make six or eight in the course of that time. Of the 
best and most noted M>rts. not so much as a quarter of an inch is completed in 
one day by three persons , which is the usual number employed. Shawds con- 
taining much work arc made in separate pieces at different shops, and it may be 
observed, that it very rarely happens when the pieces are completed, that they 
correspond in size. 

The W'ages of the head workmen (the employer furnishing the materials) are 
from 6 to 8 pice jier day of the common workman from I to 4 pice, which cur- 

3 T 2 



508 THE PROVINCE 

rency in Cashmere may be valued at three halfpence each. When a merchmit 
enters intathe trade he frequently engages several shops, which he collects in a 
spot under his own eye, or he supplies the head workmen with thread, which has 
been spun by women and previously coloured ; and they carry on the manufac- 
ture at their own homes, having beforehand received instructions from the mer- 
chant respecting the quality of the goods he may require, their colours, patterns, 
&c. After the goods are finished the merchant carries them to the custom house, 
where each shawl is stamped and pays a certain duty, the amount of which is 
settled according to the value and quality of the piece- The officer of govern- 
ment generally fixes the value beyond what the goods are in reality worth, and 
the duty levied in this estimate is one fifth. Most shawls are exported from 
Cashmere unwashed, and fresh from the loom. Amritsir is the great shawl 
mart, and there they are better washed and packed than in Cashmere ; but of 
those sent to the westward many are worn unwashed. 

The Cashmerians also fabricate the best writing paper of the east, which was 
formerly an article of extensive traffic, as were its lackered ware, cutlery and 
sugar; but trade of all sorts is now in a very languid state. A wine resembling 
Madeira is manufactured in this province, and a spirituous liquor is also distilled 
from the grape. Amritsir in Lahore, the Seik capital, is at present the grand 
emporium for the shawls and saffron of Cashmere. About twelve years ago the 
Russian merchants penetrated from the north into Cashmere with their goods, 
by the route of Yarkund. The boats of Cashmere are long and narrow and are 
moved with paddles. The country being intersected with numerous streams na- 
vigable for small vessels, might greatly benefit under a better government by this 
commodious internal conveyance. As therc_are no regular caravanserais, com- 
mercial strangers are generally lodged by their brokers. 

In the time of Aurengzebe the revenue collected (probably the clear revenue) 
in Cashmere was 31 lacks of rupees per annum ; in 1783, the Afghan governor 
on the part of the Cabul sovereign extorted above 20 lacks. In 1809, the gross 
revenue was said to be 4,020,300 rupees, or about half a million sterling. The 
sum receivable by the Cabul King depends on his contract with the governor, 
and the governor's inclination to perform its conditions. When at the highest it 
amounted to 2,200,000 rupees, from which a deduction of 700,000 was allowed 
for the pay of the troops, so that only 1,500,000 lacks reached the royal treasury. 
Above six lacks were then assigned to the neighbouring Rajas, to Afghan ctiiefs 
and to moullahs, dervises, and Hindoo fakeers. The rest is charged to the real 
or alleged expenses of collection, and to the support of the establishment. 

The governor of Cashmere, while in subordination to the Sovereign Cabul. 
had constantly at his disposal.a force of 5400 horse and 3200 foot ; but the Afghan 



OF CASHMERE. 509 

soldiers serving in Cashmere appear greatly to degmierate, becoming insolent 
and luxurious, yet the more western Afghans, from attachment to their native 
country, seldom remain long in the province. 

Cashmere being so remote from the capital of the Afghan government, and the 
governors delegated being intrusted with absolute authority, they are often 
tempted to rebel, but notwithstanding the seclusion and natural strength of the 
country, they (with the exception of the last) have been in general easily subdued. 
The native Cashmerians are unfit for soldiers, and the Afghans and Kezzelbaches 
soon become enervated and little disposed to resist their legitimate sovereign. 
The royal army on the other hand is usually composed of poor and adventurous 
soldiers, who look forward eagerly to the fancied pleasures of Cashmere, and 
know the sufferings they must endure if compelled to retreat. 

The mountains around Cashmere are in many parts inhabited by tribes in a 
sort of dependence on the Afghan government. Their chiefs hold lands within 
the valley, which have probably been given them to strengthen the fervour of 
their loyalty, and ensure their obedience. They furnish some troops to the go- 
vernor, and when he is strong enough to enforce it they pay him some revenue. 
On the north of this province is a chief whom the Cashmerians deeorate with 
the title of Raja of Little Tibet, of which however he probably only possesses a 
small portion. The lofty mountains between Cashmere and Lahdack have been 
but little explored, but caravans of merchants pass regularly between these two 
places, bringing shawl wool from the latter, and offering to an adventurous Euro- 
pean well versed in the country languages, an obvious opportunity of tracing the 
course of the Indus further than has yet been attempted. In fact the terra in- 
cognita of this river now lies between Lahdack and Gortope, a direct distance 
of about 310 miles, but much more following the windings of the stream. 

The natives of Cashmere are a stout well formed people, and their complexions 
what in France or Spain would be termed brunette. They are naturally a gay 
and lively people, eager in the pursuit of wealth, accounted much more acute 
and intriguing than the natives of Hindustan generally, and proverbially liars. 
They are also much addicted to the cultivation of literature and poetry, and the 
common people are remarkably ingenious in cabinet work of all descriptions. 
The language of Cashmere is of Sancrit origin, modified by time and the intro- 
duction of some foreign phrases. In a specimen of the Lord's prayer in this 
language examined by the missionaries, 26 words out of 32 were found to be 
radically the same with those occurring in the Bengalese and Hindostany speci- 
mens, some of them however considerably altered. Their songs are composed 
in Persic, which they consider more harmonious. In appearance the natives ot 
the province have not the slightest resehtblance to their Tartarian neighbours, 



THE PROVINCE 


510 

who are an ugly race ; on the contrary the Cashmerian females have been long 
celebrated for their beauty and fair complexions, and on that account much 
sought after for wives by the Mogul nobility of Delhi, that the breed might not 
degenerate. Although extremely fertile and productive, the country is not 
thickly populated on account of the deplorable government, or rather anarchy, 
to which it has been so long subjected. The whole number are probably under 
000,000, nor could any thing approaching this number be assigned but for the 
great population said to be contained in the capital (from 150,000 to 200,000). 
All Cashmere is reckoned holy land by the Hindoos, and aboimds with miraculous 
fountains ; but although evidently sprung from a Hindoo stock, at present by far 
the greater portion pf the population are Mahommedans. 

Abul Fazel enumerates a succession of 150 Hindoo kings, who governed Cash- 
mere prior to the year 742 of the Hijera, when it was celebrated for the reputed 
learning of its Brahmins, and the magnificence of its temples. The period of its 
subjugation is uncertain, but it was attacked and ravaged by Mahmood of Ghizni 
so early as A. D. 1012. It was afterwards governed in a long succession by a 
race of Tartar princes of the Chug or Chagatay tribe, until 1586, when it was 
subdued by Acber, and continued subject to the Moguls of Delhi until the time 
of Ahmed Shah, the Cabul sovereign, and it has ever since constituted a portion 
of the Afghan dominions. On the first occupation of their country by this 
people, the natives were rebellious, but they have since been completely quelled 
by the strong measures prosecuted by the invaders. At present no Cashmerians, 
except soldiers in the service of the state, are allowed to carry arms within the 
city. The same prohibition does not extend to the country, where, how'ever, in 
the low lands, the power of the native chiefs has been completely annihilated by 
the strong force of Afghans and Kezzelbaches permanently retained in the valley* 
and, owing to the small number of passes, the government is enabled to prevent 
any person either entering or quitting the country without its ]>ei:nission. 

Owing to its remote situation, it became necessary for the Sovereign of Cabul 
to invest his representative in Cashmere with all the })owcr.s of a king, to be 
exercised without appeal or reference. The consequence was, tlmt when the 
dynasty of Ahmed Shah Abdalli begun to totter on their throne, the governor of 
Cashmere was one of the first to claim the title as he had performed the functions 
of an independent prince. Accordingly in 1 809, Mahommed Azim Khan, the 
soubahdar of the province, threw off the yoke, and set the power of his legitimate 
sovereign at defiance. In April, 1816,*^ powerful army marched from Cabul, 
under the command of Akram Khan, the Vizier, with the view of recovering the 
province for the Durranny monarchy; but owing to the treachery of the hill chief 
of Muzifferabad, it was defeated and compelled to retreat with infinite loss and 



OF CASHMERE. 


511 

disgrace. In November, 1816, Mahommed Azim still possessed, independent of 
Cabul, the government of Cashmere, and he has since rendered abortive an 
attempt to effect its conquest by Raja Runjeet Singh, the Seik chief of Lahore. 
His administration has been described as the extreme of tyranny; the inhabitants 
as harrassed by extortions and watched by a numerous band of spies. This 
oppression tends to augment tlie depravity of their characters and natural prone- 
ness to falsehood and cunning, but their habitual gaiety is said to prevent its 
affecting, in any many material degree, their happiness or inclination to sensual 
pleasures. It is also possible that their evil propensities have been greatly ex- 
aggerated by narrators not well qualified to report on them, or copying a.ssertions 
on the subject without examination . — ( Elphimtone, Forster, Abul Fazel, Bernier, 
Renmll, Morecroft, ^c. S^r. S^c.) 

Cashmere (or Serinagur ). — The capital of the Cashmere province, situated 
in lat. 33“ 23' N. long. 74“ 47' E. By Abul Fazel in 1582, it is described as 
follows : “ Serinagur, the capital of Cashmere, is 4 fursungs in length. The last 
mentioned one is dry during a part of the year, and the Mar is someianes so 
shallow that boats cannot pass through it. This city has for ages been in a 
flourishing state, and here arc manufactured shawls and other fine woollen stuffs. 
On the east side of the city is a high hill, called the mountain of Soliman, and 
adjoining are two large lakes, which are always full.” 

The modern town of Cashmere was formerly known by the name of Serinagur, 
but now by that of the province. It extends about 3 miles on each side of the 
river Jhylum or Hydaspes, over which are four or five wooden bridges, and it 
occupies in some part of its breadth, which is unequal, about two miles. The 
houses, many of them 2 or 3 stories high, are slightly built of brick and mortar, 
with a large intermixture of timber. On the wooden roof is laid a covering of 
earth, which contributes to the warmth of the house during the winter, and in 
summer is planted with flowers. The streets are narrow and choked with the 
filth of the inhabitants, who are unclean to a proverb, and there are no buildings 
worthy of remark. The soubahdar. or governor of Cashmere, resides in a fortress 
called Shereghur, occupying the south-east quarter of the city. The benefits which 
this city enjoys in a mild salubrious air, and a river flowing through its centre, 
are essentially alloyed by its confined construction, and the extreme filthiness of 
the people. There are covered floating baths ranged along the sides of the river. 

The lake of Cashmere, named in the provincial language the Dali, has long 
been celebrated for its beauties. It extends from the north-east quarter of the 
city in an oval circumference of five or six miles, and joins the Jhylum by a 
naitow channel near the suburbs. — The northern view of the lake is terminated 
at the distance of 12 miles, by a deteched range of mountains, which slope from 



512 THE PROVINCE [vienauoh 

the centre to each angle; and from the base, a spacious plain, preserved in con* 
stant verdure by numerous streams, extends with an easy declivity to the 
surface of the water. In the centre of the plain as it approaches the lake, one of 
the Delhi Emperors, probably Shah Jehan, constructed a spacious garden 
named Shalimar. The numerous small islands in the lake have the effect of 
ornamenting the scenery. 

Bernier, who visited this country in 1663, when travelling in the suit of the 
Emperor Aurengzebe, gives a most interesting and romantic description of this 
city ; but since the dismemberment of Cashmere from the Mogul empire by the 
Afghans, it has suffered many ravages and extortions. But notwithstanding 
these causes of decline and the vicissitude of its government, it was in 1809 esti- 
mated to contain from 150,000 to 200,000 inhabitants, and reckoned the largest 
and most populous city in the Afghan dominions . — ( Forster, Rennell, Abul Fazel, 
Bernier, Elp/i instone, ^'C.) 

OuLLER Lake. — This lake is adjacent to the city of Cashmere, and, in 1582, 
was described by Abul Fazel as 28 coss in circumference, having in its centre a 
palace built by Sultan Zein ul Abdeen. Its modem dimensions are muen less, 
but it has never undergone the accurate survey or inspection of an European. 

Vehv. — This small district is described by Abul Fazel as producing much 
saffron, and is intersected by the Jhylum river. 

Pampeb. — ^A town in the province of Cashmere, situated on the north side of 
the Jhylum river, 12 miles east from the citv of Cashmere. Lat. 34® 20' N. 
long. 74® 55' E. 

Phak. — This district is bounded on the west by the Jhylum, and is described 
by Abul Fazel as abounding with odoriferous plants. Adjoining to it is the lake 
of Cashmere, by him named Dali, one side of which was close to the town of 
Phak in 1562. On this lake were artificial islands, made for the purposes of 
cultivation, portions of which were frequently cut off by robbers, who absconded 
with them to a different part of the lake . — ( Abul Fazel, ^'c.J 

Duroo. — ^A small town in the province of Cashmere, 35 miles B. E. from the 
city of Cashmere. Lat. 34* T N. long. 75® 16' E. 

ViBNAUoH. — ^A village in the province of Cashmere, 37 miles S. E. from the 
city of Cashmere. The country in this neighbourhood produces apples, pears, 
peaches, apricots, cherries, and mulberries, besides the red and white rose, and 
an infinite variety of flowering shrubs. Except the mulberry, few of the fruits or 
vegetables of Hindostan are produced here. Near to Vimaugh a torrent of water 
bursto from a mountain, and soon forms a considerable stream. A bason of a 
square form has been constructed, it is said by the Emperor Jehangire, to receive 
the water where it teaches the plain.— {* Forster, Sge, i^,) 



OF CASHMERE. 


VAKCHBERASAH.] 


513 


Banavl . — A small district or valley in the province of Cashmere, situated 
among the southern hills. At the distance of five miles to the soxtth-east of the 
village of Banaul, begins a boundary of a division of the Cashmere territory, 
lying beyond the great circle of mountains. The governors of Cashmere permit 
the fertile valley of Banaul, which is ten miles in length, to remain uncultivated, 
that it may not afford shelter or provisions to the bordering Hindoo states, who 
in former periods have through this tract approached the interior passes of Cash- 
mere. The Banaul district is mountainous, and looks down on the plains of 
Cashmere. The village of that name is situated in lat. 33° 66' N. long. 75° 13' 
E. 40 miles S. E. from the city of Cashmere. — (Forster, S^c.) 

Islamabad . — A large town in the Cashmere province, situated on the north 
side of the Jhylum, 29 miles E. S. E. from the city of Cashmere. Lat. 33° 15. N. 
long. 75°13'E. The Jhylum here penetrates through the narrow windings of 
the mountains, and has a wooden bridge about BO yards across. — ( Forster, H^c.) 

Bekexg. — A town in the Cashmere province, 37 miles E. from the city of 
Cashmere, near to which is a long defile in a mountain containing a reservoir of 
water seven ells square, which is considered by the Hindoos a place of great 
sanctity . — ( Ahitl Fazel, i^c.) 

Duckenpakah ( Dakshbjpara, the southern portion). — A district in the north- 
east quarter of Cashmere, on the inountams of which Abul Fazel, in 1582, says 
the snow never decreases, so that from the cold, the narrowness of the roads, anti 
tlie g^at height of the mountains, they cannot be passed without extreme 
difficulty. — (Ahul Fazel, ^x.) 

Panchbekarah. — ^T his is described by Abul Fazel as a place of great 
sanctity, then dependent on Uneej, but which had formerly been a large city. 
The interior of Cashmere is so imperfectly known, that any geographical situation 
which could be assigned to this place would be merely conjectural. 


3 v 


YOL*]. 



THE 


PROVINCE OF AJMEER, OR RAJPOOTANA. 

(bajputbana.) 

This large province is situated in the centre of Hindostan, between the 24 th 
and 31st degrees of north latitude. To the north it is bounded by the provinces 
of Mooltan, Lahore, and Delhi ; on the south by Gujerat and Malwah ; on thcj 
east it has Delhi and Agra ; and on the west Mooltan, including the long divi-\^ 
sion of Sinde. In length from north to south this province may be estimated' 
at 350 miles by 200 the average breadth. By Abul Fazel in 1582, this province 
is described as follows : — 

“ The soubah of Ajmeer is situated in the second climate. The length from 
Backar and the dependencies of Umbeer to Bicanere of Jelmere, is 168 coss ; 
and the breadth from the extremity of circar Ajmeer to Banswara, includes 
150 coss. On the east lies Agra ; and on the north, part of Delhi ; it has Gujerat 
on the south, and Debulpoor of Mooltan confines it on the west. The soil of 
this soubah is sandy, and it is necessary to dig a great depth before water can 
be procured, so that the success of the harvest entirely depends on the periodi- 
cal rains. The winter is temperate, but the summer is intensely hot. To the 
south are mountains, this province abounding in strong holds. This soubah 
comprehends Meywar, Marwar, and Nadowty, which are separated into seven 
districts, subdivided into 197 pergunnahs. The names of the districts are — 

1. Ajmeer; 2. Chitore; 3. Rantanpoor; 4. Joudpoor; 5. Sarowy; 6. Na- 
gore ; 7. Bicanere. The measured lands are 21,435,961 begahs ; the amount 
of the revenue 22,841,507 dams ; out of which 2,326,336 dams are seyurghal. 
It can furnish 86,500 infantry, and 347,000 cavalry.” 

In delineating this province, Abul Fazel appears to have too much compressed 
its limits towards the south, where were the principal Rajpoot tributary states, 
which probably in his time had been but little explored. The province of Aj- 
meer is occasionally named Marwar, but this appellation ought properly to be 
restricted to the Joudpoor territories. The principal modern geographical and 
territorial subdivisions ai*B the foUotving, commencing from the north ; — 

1. The Bhatty country. 6. Marwar. 11. Harowty. 

2. Bicanere. 7. Nagore. 12. Odeypoor. 

3. Great Sandy Desert. 8. Shekawntty. 13. Mewar. 

4. Jesselmera. 9. Jeypoor. 14. Sarowy. 

5. Joudpoor 10. Ajmeer district 



AJMEER, OR RAJPOOTANA. 515 

The soil of Has province may well be called sandy (as it is by Abul Fiael), and 
its general appearance is sufficiently dismal, a considerable portion of it being 
absolute desert. From the western frontier of the Shekawutty country to Ba- 
hawulpoor is a distance of 280 miles, of which only the last 100 miles S. W. 
from Bahawulpoor is wholly destitute of inhabitants, water, and vegetation. 
From the Shekawutty frontier to Pooggul, a distance of 180 miles, the road is 
over hills and valleys of loose and deep sand. These hillocks exactly resemble 
such as are formed by the wind on the sea shore, but far exceeding them in height, 
reaching from 20 to 100 feet. They are said by the natives to shift their posi- 
tions, and to alter their shapes according as the wind blows. During the 
summer the passage of this portion of the desert is described as dangerous, on 
account of the clouds of moving sand; but in winter they exhibit a greater 
degp%e of permanence, and besides phoke, bear a sort of grass, the thorny 
bushes of the baubul, and the bair, or jujube, the aggregate presenting an 
appearance which somewhat resembles verdure. 

Among these suffocating sand hills, a miserable village is sometimes met with, 
consisting of a few round straw huts, with low sides and conical roofs, like little 
stooks of com, surrounded by hedges of dry thorny branches ; the. whole ex- 
tremely combustible. Surrounding these abodes of misery are a few fields, 
depending for moisture on dews and the periodical rains, cultivated with crops of 
the poorest kinds of pulse, and of bajra, or holcus spicatus, which last is raised 
with great difficulty. The wells are often 300 feet deep, and one in particular 
was found to be 345 feet ; yet with this enormous descent, some are only 3 feet 
in diameter. An examination of the strata penetrated would be a curious and 
useful research. The water procured with so much trouble is always brackish, 
unwholesome, and extremely small in quantity. Two bullocks working one 
night can with ease empty a well. These wells are lined with masonry, and on 
the occurrence of any exigence by being covered with boards heaped over with 
sand, can be effectually concealed by the natives from their enemies, so that a 
scarcity of water is at once a cause of woe and of protection. In the midst of 
these burning sands, the most juicy of all fruits, the water melon, is found in 
astonishing profusion, growing from a small stalk not thicker than that of the 
common melon, and attaining the circumference of 3 and 4 feet. The optical 
illusion, termed mirage by the French, is common in this desert, and deceives 
travellers wiUi the appearance of an extensive lake amidst parched and arid 
sands. 

From Pooggul to Bahawulpoor the road is over a hard flat clay, which sounds 
under the horses feet like a board, and is wholly destitute of vegetation. Except- 
ing the fort and pool of Moujghur, and two wells 16 miles from Bahawulpoor, 

3 0 2 



THE PROVINCE OF 


516 

there is neither water nor inhabitants to be found, yet this is the road most tire* 
quented by caravans. On approaching within a few miles of Bahawolpoor, the 
desert ceases all at once, and a cultivated country, abounding with trees and 
water commences. In some parts this desert is 400 miles in breadth, and ex> 
tends far beyond the limits of Rajpootana. On the north it reaches to the edge 
of the Chinaub, where it is moderately fertile ; on the east it gradually mixes 
with the cultivated parts of the Delhi and Agra provinces ; and on the south is 
separated from the province of Cutch by the enormous salt morass named the 
Runn. Such' is the description of this desolate region, which is, however, 
within the influence of the periodical rains, which annually pour a deluge on its 
thirsty surface, where it is soon absorbed, and for want of population and in- 
dustry lost to the service of man. 

The common inhabitants of the desert are Jauts ; the higher classes Rhatore 
Rajpoots. The first are little in stature, black in complexion, and ill looking, 
presenting strong appearances of wretchedness and squalid poverty. The latter 
are stout and handsome, with hooked noses and Jewish features, haughty in 
their manners, very indolent, and almost continually intoxicated with opium. 
The stock of the country consists of bullocks and camels, which last are nume- 
rous and sometimes used in the plough. Of the wild animals the desert rat is 
the most numerous, and in shape greatly resembles a squirrel. Foxes, of small 
sizes and different colours,, also abound. Antelopes are found in some parts, and 
also the Goorkhur, or wild ass, mentioned in the book of Job. This quadru- 
ped more resembles a mule than an ass, and is remarkable for its shyness and 
speed. At a kind of shuffling trot, peculiar to itself, it will leave the fleetest 
horses behind. 

This province is remarkable as being nearly destitute of rivers, (except in the 
southern extremity), although the natives have traditions of streams that formerly 
penetrated through particular parts of it, of which even the traces have long 
disappeared. In the more hilly parts of the south, mountain streams descend, 
but are unable to overcome the arid nature of the desert, and it would require 
infinite labour and a dense population to conduct canals from the northern rivers 
of the Punjab. Except in the hilly districts also, trees are but little seen, al- 
though much wanted to shade the parched inhabitants. The consequence is 
that timber for the purposes of building is extremely scare- the nearest sup- 
ply being procured from Agra. The villages are generally built of a coarse 
stone brought from the adjacent hills, and even the roofs are usually of the f ime 
material. When of thatch, twisted grass is very frequently substituted for 
rafters. In the southern quarter nature has been less severe, as there the Chum- 
bul, Calysiad, and Banass, water a portion of Rajpootana, wbiidi is riio, in 



AJMEER, OR RAJPOOTANA. 51 ? 

graeral, tolerably well covered with verdure. The soil of the whole province 
is remarkably saline, containing many salt springs and lakes (such as that of 
Sambher), and producing salt and saltpetre spontaneously. Notwithstanding the 
combination of so many circumstances adverse to the agriculture of this pro- 
vince, it has been remarked, that in ordinary years there is not more va/iation 
in the price of grain throughout Ajmeer, from December to December, than iti 
the green and fertile province of Bengal, where always befo’ harvest grain rise - 
to a point exceedingly distressing to the poor. Yet in the more sterile parts of 
Rajpootana there is only one crop. 

The three grand modem divisions of Rajpootana are, 1st, Odeypoor, named also 
Mewar and the Rana of Cliitore ; 2ndly, Joudpoor, named also Marwar, and j'ts 
sovereign occasionally descHbed as the Rhatore Raja, being of that tribe ; 3dly, 
Jeypoor, Jynagur, or Ambeer, three names of one state. These appear to have 
been the original Rajpoot states, the others having been fomred from the dis- 
memberment of territories from the dominions of these three: but in latter 
days must be added the Rajas of Jesselmere and Bicanere ; and the petty 
chiefs of Kotah, Boondee, and Banswara. Under these heads respectively, and 
of the other modem territorial subdivisions, further topographical details wilf 
be found, it being intended here only to exhibit a general view of the province. 
Besides these native chiefs, various portions of the province were, until recently, 
possessed by intruders, such as Sindia and Holcar, to the first of whom the city 
of Ajmeer and the 4G surrounding pergunnahs belonged ; and to the second the 
district of Tonk Rampoora. On the south-eastern quarter are the Rajas of 
Kotah, Boondee, and other petty Rajpoot chiefs, fomierly tributary to Dowlet 
Row Sindia, and from the whole of the principalities df Rajpootana, owing to 
their discord, every freebooter who could muster sufficient force has been ac- 
customed to levy occasional contributions. 

Hie constitution of these countries resembles the feudal system ; each district, 
town, and even village, being governed by petty chiefs dignified with the title 
of ThaJtoor, or Lord, who frequently yield but a nominal obedience to the per- 
son who has the reputation of being their sovereign or superior. The land rents 
are very low but every village is obliged to furnish a certain number of horse- 
men at the shortest notice. The Rajpoots are hardy and brave, and extremely 
attached to their respective chiefs. They are also much addicted to the use of 
opium, this deleterious drug being produced by them on all occasions, and pre- 
sented to visitors as betel is in other parts of India. They are usually divided 
into two tribes, the Rhatore and the Chohan Seesodya Rajpoots. Respecting 
the number of inhabitants,' but a very vague conjecture can be hazarded, the 
extmt of country not absolutely diesert or uninhabited, being so miormous. By 



518 


THE PROVINCE OF 


comparing, however, the area of the province with that of others similarly 
situated, the population of which has been better established, there is great 
reason to believe the whole does not much exceed three millions of souls, in the 
proportion of one Mahommedan to eight Hindoos. The principal towns are 
Jeypoor„ Joudpoor, Odeypoor, Ajmeer, Kotah, Boondee, Rantampoor, Chitore, 
Shahpoorah, Bicanere, and Jesselmere. 

Although Rajpootana occupies the centre of Hindustan, and its eastern frontier 
is within 90 miles of Delhi, -it was never thoroughly subdued either by the Patan 
or Mogul emperors. Rajas of Ajmeer are mentioned by Ferishta so early as 
1008, at which period they joined a combination of Hindoo princes against 
Mahmood of Ghizni; and in 1193, it was conquered, or rather overrun, by 
Mahommed, the first Gauride sovereign of India. After this date it continued 
tributary to the throne of Delhi, and, on account of the refractory conduct of its 
chiefs, was frequently invaded by the emperors, who repeatedly took and 
destroyed all their principal towns. The province, notwithstanding, never 
became a regularly organized possession, like Delhi, Agra, and many other 
countries much more remote from the seat of government, but remained in a 
sort of half independent condition, paying a tribute, and furnishing the imperial 
armies with a certain number of Rajpoot mercenaries, who were always held in 
high estimation on account of their fidelity and bravery, and served as a coun- 
terpoise to the Mogul and Afghan soldiery. 

After the death of Aurengzebe in the year 1707, and the consequent dissolu- 
tion of the Mogul empire which ensued, it continued under a nominal subjection 
to the Delhi throne until about 1748, when total independence was assumed by 
its chiefs and princes. The interval elapsed since then has been occupied by 
internal warfare, and by invasions of the Maharattas, and other hordes of 
plunderers. During the latter part of the reign of Madhajee Sindia, and the 
commencement of that of his nephew Dowlet Row, they were near being com- 
pletely subdued by the disciplined infantry under Generals du Boigne and 
Perron, in the pay of those two chiefs. They were relieved from their apprehen- 
sion.s of impending subjugation, by the depression in 1803 of their gprand 
oppressor, Dowlet Row Sindia, whose means of inflicting evil were greatly 
reduced by the war into which he then entered against the British government. 

The Raja of Bicanere is probably the least important of the five princes of 
Rajpootana. Those of Joudpoor and Jeypoor are at the head of considerable 
states; and the reduced power of the Odeypoor Raja is kept from total 
insignificance by his high rank and the respect paid to him as the purest 
of the Rajpoot race. In 1807, a contest arose between the Rajas of Jeypoor and 
Joudpoor, each pretending to the honour of marrying the daughter of this high 



AJMEER, OR RAJPOOTANA. 519 

born chieftain ; and in the mean time allowing their dominions to become a prey 
to Ameer Khsm, Holcar. and Sindia, who pretended to espouse the cause of 
each respectively, and in reality plundered both. In fact, for many years past 
this large province has been so unceasingly harrassed and devastated by these 
depredators, that every one of the Rajpoot chiefs has repeatedly begged and 
entreated to be admitted into a federal union with the British government, 
offering in some cases half their dominions for protection to the remainder; h\it 
the non-interfering system adopted by the latter did not permit of these over- 
tures being accepted. A distinct perception of the misery they had suftered 
was the sole motive which induced these proud and turbulent tribes so long and 
so unsuccessfully to seek a connexion with the British nation. This was at length 
conceded in 1818, when they were admitted into the general federation, by the 
conditions of wdiich, mutual support in the field is plighted, w'hilo by the same 
instrument the feudal states (each equal and independent) are withheld from 
disturbing the general tranquillity by attacking each other. Their political 
differences are in future to be submitted to the arbitration of the British govern- 
ment, which averts the necessity of resorting to the sword on petty points of 
honour, heretofore rendered inevitable by the prejudices of the country. Where 
the government was exercised with any efficiency, there was no difficulty in 
settling the terms, which were to pay the tribute demandable by the Patans or 
Maharattas directly into the British treasury at Delhi, which would account for 
the amount with the respective parties. The great mass of the common people 
and cultivators are highly pleased with these arrangements, and the prospect of 
future safety which is afforded them ; but some of the old Thakoors and higher 
classes of nobility are not equally satisfied with the change, as under the prior 
anarchy they were fast establishing a species of independence in their jaghires, 
which must now be relinquished. 

It was an important part of the original plan not hastily to urge the whole 
mass of military adventurers to despair, by depriving them at once of their 
accustomed means of subsistence. Accordingly, Sir D. Ochterlony made the 
tender of service to eight of the best Patan battalions, and to about 3000 horse. 
The first, after |>ensioning oft' the superior native officers, were formed into four 
battalions for provincial duties, two of which w'ere sent to the Delhi province , 
and the other two retained in Raj poo tana ; British officers being appointed to 
the command of the whole. The horse were formed into resales of 500 each, 
and, as only the best were taken, rendered good service. In this manner was the 
destruction of the predatory Patan power, which had been expected to require 
the greatest exertions of military resources, wholly accomplished by the extra- 



520 THE PROVINCE OF [ajmeeb citt. 

ordinary address with which Sir David Ochterlony combined negociation with 
skilful military movements. 

By the late arrangements, the Rajpoot states have been entirely liberated from 
Maharatta interference, and placed under Sir David Ochterlony as resident and 
commander of the forces in Rajpootana, where a grand cantonment has been 
formed at the city of Ajraeer, which, along with the pergunnahs adjacent, was 
received from Sindia in exchange for a portion of the Peshwa’s territories in 
Malwah. Since that event multitudes of people have emerged from the hills and 
fastnesses, where they had sought refuge, and have again occupied their ancient 
and long deserted villages. Security and comfort are now established where 
misery and terror before existed, and the ploughshare is again in peace turning 
u]) a soil, which had for many seasons never been stirred, except by the hoofs of 
predatory cavalry. But although the Rajpoot states by the recent course of 
events have gained deliverance from an oppression, more systematic, more unre- 
mitting, and more brutal, than perhaps ever before trampled on humanity, it is 
not to be expected that they will at once abandon their predatory habits, or that 
tribes, who, according to their own notions, were created for the express purpose 
of fighting, will so suddenly change their natures, as not to require the frequent 
interference of the British and their military coercion. — ( Elphbistone, Abut Fazel, 
Jiamell, Scott, Metcalfe, Marquis Hastings, Frhisep, ^'C. ^'c. ^x.) 

Ajmeer (Ajamida ). — ^This town is now of secondary consideration in the 
province to which it has given its name, having been superseded in importance 
by some more modern capitals. It stands in lat. 20" 31' N. long. 74° 28' E. 80 
miles W. S. W. from Jeypoor. 

The fort of Ajmeer, named Taraghur, is built on the north-east end of a range 
of hills, and consists principally of a plain stone wall along the edge of a moun- 
tain, strengthened with a few round bastions. The city lies at the bottom of 
the hill, and is surrounded by a stone wall and ditch in bad repair. The streets 
are parrow and dirty, and most of the houses small and in a state of decay. It 
still possesses a palace, built in a garden by Shah Jehan, besides which there 
are scarcely any remains of magnificence to be seen, either internally or 
externally. 

The principal attraction of Ajmeer is the tomb of Khaja Moyen ud Deen, one 
of the greatest Mahommedan saints that ever flourished in Hindostan, which 
happened about 600 years ago. The tomb is of white marble, but remarkable 
neither for stile, nor beauty of architecture. Although the distance firom- this 
town to Agra be 230 miles, yet the great and wise Emperor Acber made a pil- 
grimage on foot to the cemetery of this saint to implore divine blessings on his 



KX8HENOUR.] , AJMEER, OR RAJPOOTANA. 521 

family, which then consisted only of daughters, but after this pilgrimage received 
the addition of three sons. The peerzadas, or attendant priests, who subsist on 
the contributions of ihe pious, exceed 1100 in number, and demand, or rather 
extort, charity from all visitors. Madhajee and Dowlet Row Sindia, although 
Hindoos of the Lrahminical persuasion, were remarkable for their devotion to 
Mahommedan saints and customs. The latter bestowed a superb pall and 
canopy of cloth of gold on the tomb, and is particularly bountiful to the devotees 
and peerzadas. Foui miles from Ajmeer is a remarkable place of Hindoo pil- 
grimage named Pooshkur (the lake or tank). 

T/fae whole countr^' round this town forms a flat sandy amphitheatre, surrounded 
by low ranges of hills, which render the place extremely sultry, but it is abund- 
antly supplied with water from two lakes lying close under the walls. The most 
northern is six miles in circumference, very deep, -and at particular seasons both 
are much frequented by flocks of ducks and geese. The town and the surround- 
ing' 46 pergunpahs were subject to Dowlet Row Sindia, and twenty years ago 
were rerted by Ambajee, and on his death by his brother Balarow. In 1800, 
they, were held by M. Perron. The boundary to the west is at the towm of 
Meerta. which separates Ajmeer district from Joudpoor. 

.Jehangeer, the s>on and successor of'the Emperor Acber, occasionally kept his 
court at Ajmeer, which caused the embassy of Sir Thomas Rowe in 1676, when 
the East India Company had a regular factory established here. In 1818, the 
town and districts attached were ceded to Dowlet Row Sindia in exchange for the 
Vinchoor Cut possessions in Mal'w'ah, and on the 3d of July, Taraghur, the strong 
fortress ot Ajmeer, was taken possession of, without bloodshed, by a detachment 
under Brigadier General Knox. One of his reasons for ceding this important 
city was the jealousy he entertained of his relation Bapoo Sindia. The name of 
Ajmeer, or Ajamida, is derived from that of an ancient monarch who ruled the 
province. Travelling distance from Delhi 230 miles ; from Oojein 256 ; from 
Bombay 650; and from Calcutta 1030 miles. — (Broughton, Rennell, <^’c. 

PoosHKUu (a resert'oh', or lake).— This celebrated place of Hindoo pilgrimage 
is situated about 4 miles W; from the city of Ajmeer. The town, which is not 
large, stands on shore of a romantic lake from which the name is derived. 

JuRKEiRA. — A -wn in the Ajmeer province, 25 miles N, E. from the city of 
Ajmeer. Lat. 26° 38" N. long. 74° 48 E. 

Rupnagur (Rupnagara, the handsome city ). — A town in the province of 
Ajmeer, 14 miles N. from the city of Ajmeer. Lat. 26* 41' N. long. 74° 30 h. 

Kisheng HUE.— This town is situated about 19 miles N. N. E. from the city 
of Ajmeer, in lat. 26° 37' N. long. 74° 43' E. It is the capital of a small but 
independent principality, the revenuet of which in 1806, were estimated at 4 
rot. I. 3 X 



522 THE PROVINCE OF [countby of 

lacks of rupees. The Raja’s relations, and the descendants of his family, amount 
in number to near 6000, and are all fed and married at the Raja’s expense, his 
government being completely patriarchal, and in return they act as soldiers and 
defend the state. The Raja is of the Rhatore tribe of Rajpoots, but the majority 
of the cultivators are Jauts. In 1818, Raja Cullian Singh, of KishengW,, was 
admitted into the British alliance on the same terms as had been granted to the 
Raja of BicoLnere,— (Broughton, George Thomas, ^r.) 

Maroxoa. — A town in the Ajmeer province, 20 miles N. E. from the city of 
Ajmeer. Lat. 26° 41' N. long. 74° 40' E. 

Kk VKRA. — A town in the Ajmeer province, 45 miles S. E. from the city of 
Ajmeer. Lat. 26° 1' N. long. 74° 58' E. 

Sauwcu. — A town in the Ajmeer province, 60 miles S. E. from the city of 
Ajmeer. Lat. 25° 11' N. long. 75° 5' E. 

THE COUNTRY OF THE DHATTIES. 

This territory is situated in the north-east quarter of the Ajmeer province, 
about the 30th degree of north latitude, and, until the cour.'tc of events brought 
the British arms into the vicinity, was but little known even by name. It is 
difficult to assign definite limits to such a country and such a people, both ab- 
horrent of definition, but the following may be considered an approximation 
towards accuracy. To the north it may be described as bounded by the com- 
bined .streams of the Sutuleje and Beyah (the Ilysudrus and Hyphasis) here 
named the Gurrah ; on the south by the territories of the Bicanere Raja and the 
Shekawntty country ; on the east it has the district of Hurrianna, and jirotected 
Seik chiefs in the Delhi province ; and to th.e west the great sandy desert, of 
which it is in a manner a component part. The north eastern corner, in some old 
maps named Latty Afghany, is still wholly unknowm, although within a short 
distance of the British military station at Ludeeanna. This great tract of 
waste country bordering on the western desert, form.s a natural boundary 
to the British possessions in this quarter of llinclostan. 

The portion of the Bhatty country kst adapted for cultivation is along the 
banks of the river Cnggur, from the town of Futtehabad to Bhatncer, which is 
said to be rendered very productive by the overflowing of that river; but 
respecting its source and course our knowledge is very imperfect. The land 
w ithin the influence of this inundation produces wheat, vice, and barley : the 
remainder of the Bhatty country, owing to the want of moititure, is unfit for the 
]Hirpoecs of agriculture. The river Cnggur is afterwards lost in tlve sands to 
the west of Bhatncer, although it is said to have formerly joined the Sutuleje in 
the vicinity of Ferozepoor. About the month of March the water preserved in 



THE BHATTiEs.] AJMEER, OR RAJPOOTANA. 523 

the tanks dries up very rapidly, after which deep wells are the only resource lor 
tlie parched cattle and inhabitants, Bhatneer and Balindah are the chief towns 
of the Bhatties, but those best known to the British authorities are situated in 
the vicinity of Hurrianna, where in some parts this tribe claim a right of 
pasturage, and are named Futtehabad, Sirsah, Raneeah, Bcerghur, and Beer- 
anah. There is but little commerce carried on in this country, the inhabitants 
having hitherto preferred thieving to every other vocation. With the exception 
of the sale of their surplus grain, ghee and cattle (all small in quantity except 
the last), they maintain but little intercourse with the neighbouring states, and 
that principally through petty merchants of the Sheikh Furreed sect. Their 
imports are coarse white cloth, sugar and salt ; but the whole amount of the 
traffic is very inconsiderable. 

The Bhatties were originally shepherds. Various tribes of them are found in 
the Punjab, and they are also scattered over the high grounds to the east of the 
Indies from the sea to Ooch. In the institutes of Acber, these tribes are by 
Abul Fazel named Ashambatty. Their chiefs were originally Rajpoots, but arc 
now Mahommedans, which persuasior has been also adopted by the lower 
classes who were originally Jauts. They have long been noted as a plundering 
people, remarkable for carrying on their depredations on foot, and still more so 
for the length and rapidity of their pedestrian incursions. The Bhatty female.*; 
are allowed to appear in public unveiled, and are not compelled to observe that 
species of seclusion so common all over Hindostan. especially among the 
followers of Mahommed. 

Prior to the cession of Hurrianna to the British, the chief of the Bhatties was 
Khan Bahadur Khan, who in 1810 held 21 villages, including Futtehabad, 
Sirsah and Raneah, It was then estimated that the utmost force which the 
Bhatties could collect, would not exceed 10,000 men, of whom not one- 
sixteenth possessed fire arms. They are however very expert in conducting a 
night attack, and have been known to go an immense distance. In the year 
abovementioned Raneah formed the w'estern boundary of Khan Bahadur's 
country, having an extensive tract of waste land on the north, west, and south. 
Bhatneer, the nearest town, is distant about 40 road miles to the west. The 
town of Nehar lies 43 road miles to the south, and belongs to a Shekawutty 
chieftain. The towm ofTulwunda, subject to Raja Saheb Singh, stands about 
40 road miles to the north. Some years prior to the British conquests in this 
part of Hindostan, the revenues of Futtehabad, Sir.'sah, and Raneali, were 
estimated at 40,000 rupees per annum. It is said to have since become less 
productive on account of the banks which have been constructed across the 

3x2 



524 


THE PROVINCE OF 


[COUNTET OF 


Cuggur river by the Seik chiefs to the north-west, which have prevented these 
pergunnahs from receiving their due share of the stream. It was also calculated 
that if all the Bhatty country taken possession of in 1801 had been retained, it 
would have yielded a revenue of 80,000 rupees per annum, although great 
distress had been caused by a deficiency of rain in this arid region. 

On the first occupation of the Hurrianna province in 1 809, nothing was left 
undone to conciliate the Bhatties, who were assured that their frontier would 
be no longer disturbed by any banditti from the Hurrianna country, as had 
hitherto been the case under the native governments. The Bhatty chiefs were 
in their turn solicited to restrain the predatory habits of their tribes, and. 
suppress all aggressions on a friendly territory ; but the fact was that neither', 
Bahadur Khan, nor any other chief, had sufficient controul over this lawless horde, \ 
which contemned all authority that interfered with their schemes of plunder. 
Bahadur Khan also declined affording his assistance, declaring that he was 
apprehensive of being entrapped and made prisoner, as had happened during 
the Gallo Maharatta sway in Upper Hindustan. 

All amicable overtures being rejected, and the aggressions on the inhabitants 
of Hurrianna continuing, an expedition was inarched into the Bhatty country 
in December, 1810, under Col. Adams, when Bahadur Khan was ex])elled, and 
Futtehabad and the other refractory towns submitted without resistance. On 
this occasion Zabeta Khan (the son of Bahadur Khan) joined the British camp 
without stipulating for any terms, in consideration of which unconditional sub- 
mission all his country was restored to him with the exception of Futtehabad, 
which was retained as a frontier post, from whence a garrison could superintend 
the motions of this unquiet race, whom it w'as difficult to wean from the predatory 
habits to which they had been accustomed from time immemorial. The towns 
of Beerghur and Beeranneh were also reannexed to the district of Hurrianna, 
from which they had been separated. In making these arrangements it was 
judged expedient that Zabeta Khan should receive back his territories unencum- 
bered by any tributary engagement, as the payment of a tribute virtually 
implied an obligation on the superior power to protect its tributary', which 
might eventually have proved embarrassing, and was at the same time com- 
pletely at variance with a fundamental maxim of British policy, as referring to 
the native principalities of Hindostan. For some time afterwards tranquillity 
prevailed throughout the Bhatty country; but in 1818, they again became 
restless, and possessed themselves Of Futtehabad, which had been held by the 
Seiks under the authority of the British government. A strong detachment was 
in consequence again marched into the district, for the purpose of destroying all 



THE BHATTIES ] AJMEER, OR RAJPOOTANA. 525 

the petty forts and expelling the agitators, which service was effected without 
encountering any serious opposition.— Thwnas, Lieut. White, Col. Achwis, 
Archibald Scton, S^c. 8gc. 8^c.) 

Futteuabai).— This town lies on the south-east bank of the Cuggur river, 
about 35 miles distance from Hansi, and 30 from Hissar. The road from Hansi 
is good, and plenty of water is procurable at all seasons. At Futtehabad there 
is a large brick fort with high and thin walls, strengthened on the inside with 
buttresses of earth, but without a ditch. There is a small ditch round the town, 
which is populous, and as is usual in this tract, most of the male inhabitants (in 
1810 estimated at 5000 persons) carry arms. On its capture by Colonel 
Adams in 1810, two guns and a considerable quantity of grain were found in the 
fortress. The country between this place and Bat Summund is almost one con- 
tinued jungle for 30 miles, affording excellent shelter to the Bhatly thieves, and 
according to the newspapers full of lions . — ( Archibald Seton, j 

SiusAH.— This town is situated about 30 miles to the westward of Futtehabad, 
within which distance there are not above ten villages. From Sirsah it is 1(5 
miles to Rancah. with two villages, Jemar andRaypoor, on the road. Forty-five 
miles to the westward of Raneah lies Bhatncer. At Sirsah there is a gurry or 
mud fort much out of repair, which, however, in 1 803 withstood an attack of the 
Maharatta infantry, assisted by one of the Begum Somroo's corps. The town 
Sirsah contains about 600 inhabitants. — (Archibald Setoa, 8^c. Sec.) 

Raxeah. — T his place is 14 miles to the west of Sirsah, and contains a fort 
without guns, which was formerly the residence of Zabeta Khan, the Bhatty 
chieftain, who had a garrison consisting of a few horse and foot. In 1810 the 
population of Raneah was estimated at 5000 inhabitants. At Danoor, within 
six miles of this place, there is a fine jeel or shallow lake, which is said to be a 
continuation of the one at Jindah, the whole (if this report be correct) extending 
to a distance of 30 miles, with a wheat cultivation on its banks. We are not 
informed if these jeels be perrennial or only during and after the rainy season. — 
( E. Gardner, Colonel Adams, ^x.) 

Beekgur. — This is an open village, 35 miles from Hissar, and 3 from Futteli- 
abad, and stands to the south side of the Cuggur river. 

Beeraxaii. — This is an open village situated to the south of the Cuggur, 60 
miles to the north west of Hansi and 10 from Futtehabad, encompassed by a 
ruinous mud wall, without a ditch. In 1810 Beeranah was supposed to contain 
3000 inhabitants, of whom 150 horse and 100 foot were armed with matchlocks, 
swords, and shields ; spears are common to the whole population. There are 
said to be 16 wells on the outside of Beeranah to the east and west, but none to 
north or south. — ( E. Gardner, ^x. l^x.) 



526 THE PROVINCE OF [bicanebe. 

SrEHAii. — A town in the Ajmeer province, 45 miles E. from the town of 
Bhatncer. Lat. 29“ 28' N. long. 74° 38' E. 

Bn ATNEKR (lihatuir ). — This town, the modem capital of the Bhatty tribe, is 
of some antiquity, as it is said to have been taken and destroyed by Timour in 
1398, when the country was probably better cultivated and the town of greater 
importance than it is at present, otherwise the one would not have subsisted his 
army, nor the other attracted his notice. It stands in lat. 29° 36' N. long. 73® 
55 E. about 130 miles N. N. E. from Bicanere, and 100 N. W. from Hissar. 
The whole country west of Hissar to Bhatneer and beyond it is an immense plain. 
The stages are of considerable length and vater very scanty. The soil is 
de>cribc(l by the natives as being of a hard substance and blueish colour, so as at 
a distance to have the appearance of water. Bhatneer was taken from the 
llhatties in 1807, by the Raja of Bicanere, who still retained possession in 1810. 
— (Lieut. White, E. Gardner, 

BATiN'DAii.- This town is situated in lat. 30® 12' N, long. 74® 48' E. about 75 
miles S. W. from Ludeeanna. Formerly the country surrounding this town was 
distinguished by the name of the Lacky Jungle, much celebrated for the goodness 
of its pasture lands and its excellent breed of horses. Thirty years ago this 
jungle was described as forming a circle of 40 miles in diameter, and the then 
Raja of the Lacky Jungle paid tribute to the Seik Raja of Pattiallah in the Delhi 
province. The soil being sandy a great depth must be penetrated before water 
is readied. The original breed of the horses reared in this tract of country was 
much improved by Persian horses, introduced during the invasions of Nadir Shah 
and Ahmed Shah Abdalli. — (George Thomas, 8^c.) 

BICANERE (Bivanir.) 

This Rajpoot principality occupies the centre of the Ajmeer province, and is 
situated principally between the 27th and 29th degrees of north latitude. Like 
all other districts in this waste of sand its limits are difficult to settle, vast tracts 
being claimed and rejected by all parties, as political circumstances happen to 
support or oppose their pretensions. To the north it is bounded by the great 
Ajmeer desert and the Bhatty country ; to the south by the Joudpoor and Jey- 
poor dominions ; on the east it has the British district of Hurrianna and the 
Shekawutty country; and on the west Jessclmere and the great desert, into 
which it merges. Under their local peculiarities it is a curious fact that the 
Hindoos of the sands of Bicanere shoultf particularly object to the eating of fish, 
(a temptation they are rarely subjected to) as sinful. 

The surface of the country is flat but rather elevated ; the soil a light brown 
sand, which absorbs the rain almost as soon as it falls. Wells are consequently 



BICANERE.] AJMEER, OR RAJPOOTANA. 527 

of absolute necessity, are lined with brick, and generally from 100 to 200 feet in 
depth. Each family has besides a cistern for the preservation of rain water. 
With the exception of a few villages on the eastern frontier, the crops of Bicanere 
are very precarious, and greatly dependent on the periodical rains. Bejurah and 
the other kinds of Indian pulse are almost the only produce, the inhabitants 
trusting in a great measure for a supply of provisions to the neighbouring pro- 
vince. Horses and bullocks of an inferior breed are nearly the sole export. The 
imports are coarse and fine rice, sugar, opium, and indigo. The former articles 
are usually brought from Lahore by the way of Rajghur and Chooroo. Salt is 
procured from Sambher, and wheat from the Jeypoor country ; spices, copper, 
and coarse cloth, by the road of Jesselmere. The chief strong hold is the city of 
Bicanere, but Chooroo, Rajeghaum, and Bahudra are reckoned strong places by 
the natives. By Abul Fazel, in 1582, this country is described as follows : 
“ Circar Beykaneer, containing 11 mahals; revenue 4,7.50,000 dams. This 
cirdar furnishes 1200 cavalry and 50,000 infantry. ” 

The Bicanere Raja is of the Rhatore caste, and of the same family with the 
Joudpoor Raja; the elder branch having established itself at Joudpoor, and 
the junior at Bicanere. He is the least important of the five princes of Rajpoot- 
ana ; but it does not appear that he ever paid tribute to the Maharattas, for 
which exemption he was probably indebted to the extent and sterility of his do- 
minions. In 1809, his revenue amounted to only £50,000 per annum, but as his 
troops are paid by assignments of land, he is enabled to maintain 2,000 horse 
and 8,000 foot, with 35 pieces of artillery. His first frontier town towards the 
Shekawutty country is Chooroo, which may be reckoned the second town in his 
dominions. The cultivators are mostly Jauts, some converted, and some not. 
In the Lord's prayer, as given in the Bicanere language, 29 words out of 32 were 
identified by the missionaries as radically the same with those in the Hindostany 
and Bengalese specimens. 

In 1808 these miserable territories were invaded by bve different armies, one 
of which belonging to the Joudpoor Raja, 15,000 strong, arrived within a few 
miles of the capital ; another smaller force was equally near, while the remainder 
were endeavouring to reach the same point by different routes, and predatory 
horse had been let loose to cut off all supplies of provisions. The Raja ol' 
Bicanere on the other hand, as a measure of dcrencc, filled up all the wells 
within ten miles of his capital, and trusted for deliverance to the desolation that 
surrounded him. This invasion was occasioned by the interference of the 
Bicanere chief in the contest carried on between the Rajas of .loudpoor and 
Jeypoor, each jiretcnding to the hand of the princess of Odeyjioor. In this 
distress, in 1809, the Bicanere Raja earnestly solicited the favourable mediation 



528 THE PROVINCE OF [sicANEaE. 

of the British government with the Joudppor chieftain ; but he was informed in 
reply, that although the Governor in Council entertained a high sense of the 
friendly attention paid to the British envoy (Mr. Elphinstone) while passing 
through the Bicanere territories, they could not be induced to deviate from that 
system of* non-interference in the affairs of other state.s, which constituted a fun- 
damental principle of their general policy. 

But on another occasion in the same year this chief had a more successful 
result to his suit, when he applied to the resident at Delhi for the restitution of 
two villages in the vicinity of Behil on the borders of Hurrianna, of which he 
had been deprived by the adventurer George Thomas. On investigation it 
appeared that these villages had formerly composed part of the Bicanere domi- 
nions, but as they were in the possession of George Thomas in the year 1801, 
when General Perron subverted the power of that leader, they were considered 
as an appendage to Hurrianna, when that province was ceded by Dowlet Row 
Sindia in 1803. It wa.s also discovered that when George Thomas took pos- 
session of them they were totally waste, and that he peopled them ; but the 
British government being desirous of gratifying the Raja, and the villages being 
besides of inconsiderable value, they were restored to him without reservation. 
Although in appearance sufficiently employed in the defence of his own terri- 
tories against his more powerful neighbours, this chief has made several external 
conquests, and among others in 1 807 Bhatneer, the capital of the Bhatty country, 
of Mffiich in 1810 he still retained possession. His existence as an independent 
prince was further secured by being admitted on the 13th of March, 1818, 
within the line of British protection. The suppression of robbery, the restora- 
tion of plundered property, the obligation of paying the expense of any 
British force he might solicit, and of rendering military aid according to his 
means, were the only terms exacted. The Bicanere chief never having paid 
any tribute, was consequently on this occasion not required to pay any. — 
(Public MS. Documents, Elphinstone, Prinsep, George Thomas, Metcalfe, 
S^c. S^c. 4’c.j 

Bicanere (Bicanir ). — This town is situated about 260 miles W. by S. from 
the city of Delhi, in lat. 27® 57' N. long. 73“ 2' E. It is placed in the midst 
of a tract of more than ordinary desolation, and owing to its contrast with the 
surrounding wilderness of sand presents externally an appearance of magnifi- 
cence, which closer inspection does not justify. Within ten yards of the walls 
the country is as waste as the wildest part of Arabia ; but on the northern side 
there is something that looks like a woody valley. The most remarkable and 
pleasing sight here is a well of fine water, immediately under the fort where 
the Raja resides, 300 feet deep, and from 15 to 20 in diameter. Four buckets. 



voooevL.] AJMEER, OR RAJPOOTANA. 599 

each drawn by a pair of bullocks, are worked at a time, and when a bucket is 
let down, the noise made when it strikes the water is like the report of a 
great gun. 

The town of Bicanere is surrounded by a fine wall, strengthened by many 
round towers, and crowned with the usual Indian battlements. It contains some 
elevated houses and some temples, one of which has a lofty spire, and at one 
comer there is a high snowy fort, Bicanere is distinguished by the whiteness of 
its buildings, and the absence of trees, which give most Indian towns the ap- 
peatnnce of woods, rather than of inhabited places. Most of the dwellings are 
merely huts, having mud walls painted red. The tort is a confused assemblage 
of towers and battlements, overtopped by houses crowded together. In extent it 
is about a quarter of a mile square, encompassed by a wall 30 feet high, with a 
good dry ditch. By the natives it is reckoned a place of considerable strength, 
but the chief security of both city and fort arises from the scarcity of water in 
the surrounding country. In the Raja’s service are usually several Europeans of 
different nations, who reside within the fort. The native inhabitants wear loose 
cloths of white cotton or muslin, like the Hindostanies, but are distinguishable 
from the latter by their Rajpooi features and remarkable turban, rising high on 
their head like a mitre. — (Elphimtone, G. Thomas, Wth Register, 

Chooroo. — This ranks as the second town in the Bicanere dominions, and 
stands in lat. 28® 12' N. long. 74° 35' E. 107 miles W. by N. from the city of 
Bicanere. Chooroo is one mile and a half in circumference, without including the 
suburbs which are mean, and being situated among naked sand hills, its external 
appearance is handsome. The houses and walls are built of a limestone of so 
pure a white, as to give every thing composed of it an extremely neat appear- 
ance. This material, however, although externally so handsome, is very soft 
and crumbles to a white powder, mixed in some parts with shells. Large beds 
of it are found in many parts of the Ajmecr desert, which, advancing west from 
Chooroo, increases in sterility. Chooroo is reckoned tiie second town in the 
Bicanere dominions, but its chief is rather a dependent on, than a subject of, the 
Bicanere Raja. In 1817 it was plundered by one of Meer Khan’s sirdars, and 
in 1818 was visited by a British detachment. Purthi Singh, the governor, had 
abandoned it with his followers the day before their arrival, and also many of 
the inhabitants. A party of British troops was left in charge until the Bicanere 
Raja’s officers could arrive and receive charge, an arrangement so adverse to the 
wuihes of the inhabitants, that they threatened to emigrate to the Raja of 
Jeypoor's territories. — ( Elphimtone, 4’c. ^c.) 

Pooooui.. — ^This village is situated about 42 miles N. W. from the town of 
Bicanere, in lat. 28° 26' N. long. 72° 31' E. Pooggul is one of the principal 
yot. I. 3 y 



530 THE PROVINCE OP 

stages on the road through the desert to Bahawulpoor, as rain water is here 
preserved in small vaulted reservoirs, and sold to &e caravans. There is widh 
water also, but it is rath^ brackish. The villa^, which belongs to Bicipeare, 
consists of a few miserable straw huts, in the midst of a sea of sand, without a 
vestige oS vegetation. — ( E^hirutom, ^c.) 

THE PRINCIPALITY OF JESSELMERE. 

This portion of Rajpootana is situated between the 26th and 28th degrees of north 
latitude, and is nearly surrounded by the great desert, of which it may almost be 
described as a part, so barren and unproductive is the soil owing to a deficiency 
of water. It forms the extreme boundary of the inhabited country towards the 
Indus on the west ; towards the east it comes in contract with the district of 
Marwar belonging to the Raja of Joudpoor. Owing to the extreme sterility of 
this region, it has hitherto attracted but little attention, and remains almost 
unknown. The greater part of the surface presents to the view an uninterrupted 
tract of sand, intersected by no streams, and the scanty supply of water only 
procurable from wells of a vast depth under ground. Being, however, within the 
influence of the periodical rains, its desert condition must in some degree be 
attributed to the nature of the government, consisting of many turbulent petty 
chiefs, with the Raja of Jesselmere for a nominal superior. It is consequently 
but little cultivated, and thinly inhabited by a Rajpoot tribe of Bhatties ; but 
the Jesselmere chief is said to be of the Joudpoor family. Jesselmere, which 
gives its name to the province, is the principal town ; the rest answer rather to 
the description of hamlets collected in the vicinity of wells and pasturage. 

According to tradition the Rajas of Jesselmere descended from the fourth of 
the Jadoos, (sionamed Bhatti, and preserved by the care of the goddess Bliavani 
Hinglais after the destruction of their brethren,) on whom she subsequently 
bestowed Jesselmere. Their history since then untU 1808, an interval of 5,000 
years, stands wholly unrecorded. In that year the Raja of Jesselmere applied 
to Mr. Seton, resident at Delhi, representing the strong desire he felt to visit the 
banks of the sacred Ganges for devotional purposes, provided he coqjd receive the 
permission of the British government, and assurances of respectful treatmmit; 
for it appeared he had received a very erroneous impression of the British, both 
individually and as a natum. He was encouraged to proceed on his pilgrismge 
without fear, and his confidence being increased, he adverted to his poli^ksal 
situation, stating, that many chiefo ha^by fraud and violence obtained fragments 
of the Mogul empire, which they, nd^ with an iron hand, while he ai^ his 
ancestors had temained at rest foom the remoteit uitiquity within the limitl qf 
their own territories; but that even them were ikOireAdaiigi||ped»twfoeiie^^ 



Joi7]>ro<>K,] AJMEBR, OR RAIPOOTANA. 531 

1 

meats bmag daUy made oa his heredimiy possessions as threatmied utterly to 
aanihilate his principality. He, therefore, appealed to the British govemm^t 
as sovereigns of Hindostan, to whose protection he was entitled, and entreated 
theih to save for him^his remaining portion of country, the natural barrenness and 
seclusion of which could not preserve it from molestation. To this request a 
conciliatory answer was sent with some presents ; but the Raja was informed 
that consistently with the principles that regulated the conduct of the British 
government, all interference with his political concerns must be declined ; but 
he would experience every office of friendship due to a friendly neighbour, and 
the utmost hospitality during his contemplated pilgrimage. Affairs continued 
under these circumstances until 1818, when the Jesselmere Raja was admitted 
into the British alliance on the same terms as had been granted to the Riya of 
Bicanere . — ( Public MS. Documents, Metcalfe, Sgc. Sgc. Sgc.) 

Jesselmere. — ^This town is situated near the centre of the Ajmeer province, 
about 165 miles due east from the Indus. Lat. 26° 43' N. long. 7(f 64' E. 

Beejkote. — A town in the Ajmeer province, about 15 miles east of the town 
of Jesselmere. 


JOUDPOOR (Yuddhapoor, the City of Wa)‘). • 

An important Rajpoot principality in the province of Ajmeer, of which it 
occupies most of the central and eastern portions, and situated in general between 
the 25tb and 27th degrees of north latitude. The ancient name was Marwar, 
Joudpoor being merely a subdivision of that large district, the Raja of which is 
occasionally called the Marwar or Rhatore Raja. The dominions of this 
potentate are very extensive, but the boundaries difficult to define. In 1809 
the town of Amercote on the borders of Sinde was in his {Possession, while to the 
east his territories comprehended the town of Meerta, making altogether a 
distance of 250 miles. To the south-west his dominions reached still further, aa 
when Raidun Khan, a Baloochee chief, established himself in Rahdunpoor to the 
west of the Baunass river, a Joudpoor detachment held possession of Futtehpoor, a 
small fort two miles still further west. On the north there are Jesselmere and 
Bicanere ; and on the east Ajmeer, Jeypoor, and the Shekawutty country. 

The general soil of the Joudpoor territories is arid, but on the south-eastern 
asbd eastern firontiers it is more productive, being watered wito various small hill 
idretuaasj on the west it sinks into the desert. Lands under tillage yield wheat 
bailey, and other sorts of grain and pulse common in India; the cultivators are 
mosriy Jauts. The country also contains lead mines. On account of the sandy* 
toKture of the surface, which renders the road impassable for carriages, the mer- 
fhaadiae is transported on camdls and bullocks, which are of a superior quality, 

3-t2 



5S^ THE PROVINCE OP f 

and in demand all over India. The trade from Snrat chiefly paaaea through 
Gujerat and Ahmedabad ; from Tatta Uirongh Sinde and Jesselmere» and from ^ 
Deccan by Mewar and Kotah. The town of Pawlee is the ffrei^t commeit^ 
mart in t^ part of Rajpootana. 

The iniports into Joudpoor consist of cloths, shawls, spices, opium, rice, sugar, 
steel, and iron. The exports are salt, camels, bullocks, and horses. The latter 
are strong, bony, and of a good stature, and the breed of cattle in genertJ is 
excellent. The principal inhabitant^ of Joudpoor are Rhatore Rajpoots, who 
ue a brave handsome race of men, of the purest castes, the Sesodya, the 
Cutcheva, the Addah, and the Bawtee. The Raja's dominions are partitioned ^ 
among many jaghiredars, who hold lands on the condition of supporting a I 
certain number of troops for the service of the prince in the time of war ; but as ^ 
these lands descend from father to son in defiance of the prince, most of these 
jaghiredars may be considered as petty chiefs nearly independent. The country 
of Joudpoor or Marwar is asserted to have been formerly much more populous 
than it is at present. 

Raja Jeswunt Singh, one of Aurengzebe’s best generals, was Raja of this 
country. When he died near Cabul, in 1581, Aurengzebe gave orders forcibly 
to convert his children, in defending whom most part of their Rajpoot attendants 
perished. He expelled the family from the fort, and compelled them to take 
refuge in the hills and forests ; such was the reward the family of one of his most 
fruthful generals received. The family, on the death of Aurengzebe, regained 
possession, his grandson Ajeet Singh, termed the hereditary zemindar of Joud- 
poor by the historian Eradut Khan, having rebelled and destroyed the mosques 
which the emperor had erected. 

In 1803, Raja Bheem Singh died, leaving his widow pregnant of a son.*afrer> 
wards named Dhokul Stngh. Before the birth of this descendant, howeverv, the 
throne was seized by his nncle Raja Maun Singh, and the young chief was 
conveyed by his party to the protection of Ubhee Singh, a Shekawutty, where 
he remained waiting for an opportunity to expel his uncle and rival : such being 
nearly the situation of all the native states of Hindostan, a sovereign on die 
throne, and a pretender to it supported by a strong party in the centre of the 
court and country. 

In 1806, dissensions arose between the Rajas of Joudpoor and Jeypoor, eadh 
asserting his claim to espouse the daughter of the Rana of Odeypoor, wldie 
Sindia and Holcar, with ostmisible professions of amity, were privately eixtortmg 
money from each of them as the price of abstaining from assisting his rival. Of 
the result of such a complicated system of fraud tmd intr^fue no ratumat conje^ 
^e could be formed, and after the rupture took place, many viciswtiidcs vefe 



JOO0»OO».] AJMEER, OR RAJPOOTANA. 533 

expen^oced. The Jeypoor Raja having defeated the Joudpoor troops, took the 
tima of loadpoofi besieged the capital, and appeared m the high road to the 
•ocompliihment of his wishes, while the cause of his rival looked proportionably 
blank ; but just as the means and fortitude of the garrison were nearly exhausted, 
imitinies arose in the Jeypoor army, many Rajpoot chiefs forsook his standard, 
and Meer Khan (his subsidiary), under pretence of a breach of pecuniary engage- 
ments, ravaged the Jeypoor temtories. and compelled the Raja to retreat from 
Joudpoor with the utmost precipitation, his own capital being in imminent danger 
of experiencing the fate he had destined for that of his rival. 

In this extremity the Jeypoor chief, with the view of distracting the leaders 
who supported Maun Singh, brought forward Dhokal Singh, the legitimate heir of 
the elder branch of the family, but he made no progress, and in the end of 1807, 
the only place of importance possessed by his adherents was the town of Nagore. 
In order to interest the British government in his favour, Dhokul Singh’s party 
offered to pay 12 lacks of rupees in cash, cede five pergunnahs in perpetuity, 
and subsidize a British force ; but this, like many other propositions for the 
extension of territory, was rejected as inconsistent with the general policy of 
the British nation. 

In conformity to a long established custom in Hiudostan, it was usual when a 
powerful Raja succeeded to his deceased father to solicit the Mogul to honour 
him with a Ticka, as a mark of investiture, or at least of royal approbation ; which 
ceremony consists in having the forehead anointed with a preparation of bruised 
sandal wood. Although this inunction had long ceased to be a necessary token 
of confirmation of the successor's right, it was still considered so gratifying a 
mark of distinction that towards the close of 1807, Raja Maun Singh anxiously 
entreated the British government to interfere with the Emperor of Delhi, Acber 
the Second, to obtain it for him. The British government, however, declined inter- 
fering, the right of conferring the mark of distinction in question being considered 
as one of those obsolete acts of sovereignty, the revival of which was particularly 
obiectionable, and by the natives it would have been considered as recognizing 
the rights of one of the contending parties, and departing from tlie line of strict 
neutrality which had invariably been observed. Of this the Raja was apprized, 
end the inutility of the act as a mark of confirmation represented to him, as well 
as the folly of making an unnecessary reference of the validity of his title to a 
power, which neither claimed nor exercised a power to grant or withhold it. In 
the interval which has elapsed since that period. Maun Singh maintained his 
•eat on the Joudpoor throne, and even extei. d his conquests, while the heart 
of Ws own dominions was annually ravaged by Sindia, Holcar, Mecrkhan, 
or any other plunderer who could muster a sufficient number of predatory fol- 
In 1805, the Joudpoor revenues were estimated by Mr. Metcalfe at 60 



534 THE PHOVINCE OF [jovopooi. 

lacks of rupees ; but the insanity of the Raja and the youth and ineX]^len«ioe of 
his son have combined to reduce the str^igth, and desolatO the provinces of diis 
great principality. In this condition it remained until 1818, when it was the 
second of the Rajpoot states that entered into engagements with the Biitirii 
govemmejit. Sindia was the only power who had any legal demands for tribute, 
which nominally amounted to 180,000 rupees per annum, but seldom more *hao 
108,000 were actually paid, and at this last amount the tribute to the British for 
protection was fixed in the treaty. The expulsion of all the thanas, or military 
posts placed in the country by Ameer Khan, was the first benefit that resulted 
from these arragements, which were concluded at Delhi on the 6th January, 1618, 
In addition to the tribute above mentioned, the Raja engaged to furnish a coatin' 
gent of 1,600 horse, and it is to be hoped that his country will in future be pre- 
vented from continuing to be^ what it has so long been, a nursery and arena for 
freebooters- — (Archibald Seton, Public MS. Documents, G. Thomas, Printep, Met- 
calfe, Scott, ^'c. &;c. S^'c.) 

JouDPooR.— The capital of the Joudpoor principality, situated about 320 miles 
S. W. from Delhi, in lat. 26° 18' N. long. 73° E. Travelling distance from Ouje*- 
260 miles. 

Meeeat (Mcerta). — k town in the Ajmeer province, 36 miles W. by N. from 
the city of Ajmeer. Lat. 20° 38' N. long. 73* 49' E. This place belongs to the 
Joudpoor Raja, and was formerly the boundary between his territories and those 
of Dowlet Row Sindia. 

Mabwar ( Marvar ). — ^A large and ancient division of the Ajmeer province, 
situated principally between the 26th and 28th degrees of north latitude, but in 
modem times better known as the Rajah of Joudpoor's territories. In former 
times the tvord Marwar, as including the town and fortress of Ajmeer, became 
almost synonimous with the name of the province. By Abul Fazel, in 1582, it 
is described as follows : *• Marwar is in length 100 coss, and in breadth 60 coss. 
Circar Ajmeer, Joudpoor, Sarowy, Nagore, and BiCanere, are dependent on it. 
The Rhatore tribe have inhabited this division for ages. Here are many forts, of 
which the following are the most famous, viz. Ajmeer, Joudpoor, Bicanere Jes- 
selmere, A^jnt^ote, and Jyenagur (Jeypoor).” On investigation the missionaries 
found that the Lord's prayer in the Marwar language contained 28 of the 32 
words particularized in the Bengalese and Hindostany specimens. 

In 1811, the annual fall of rain, never over abundant, failed in Marwar, which 
in addition to the desolation caused bydouds of locusts, drove the iiduMaits 
of that unfortunate country for subsistence to the centre dOujerat. onsciry 
still pursued them, for in 1812, Gujerat also experienced a fiSluri; of nda, aid coo- 
sequmit scarcity, which soon reduced the already |hi^ starved .ea^B^evad to a 
most deplorable condition ; yet they most unaccountably uniferady dec&ied cm* 



•BSKAwmmr.] AJHMR, OE EAJPOOTANA. 535 

plo 3 naieiit wbea tendered, even with ^ jBospect of death as the consequence of 
their lefusid. n» vicinity of every large town in Gujerat was then crowded 
witii these wretched creatures, infirm, dying, dead, and half eaten by dogs, which 
acquired an xmusual degree of ferocity from having so long fed on human bodies. 
Even the distinction of caste was at length forgotten, and the Brahmin was seen 
idling his wife for 2 or 3 rupees to such as would receive her. At Baroda, the 
Onieowar's capital, the weekly return of MTarwarie burials exceeded 500 bodies. 
Mndi was done by native charity, large subscriptions were raised, aided by a liberal 
•am from the Baroda government, but {dl unavailing, the extent of the calamity 
exceeding human power of efficient alleviation. In the mean time these unfor- 
tunate emigrants spread themselves all over the Gujerat province, from the gulf 
of Cutch to Surat, and in many instances to Bombay ; and there is reason to 
believe that of the whole mass not one in an hundred ever returned within the 
limits of his native province. — ( Abul Fazel, Carmc, 

Naoore ( Nagara). — A Rajpoot district in the Ajmeer province, situated prin» 
cipally between the 27th and 28th degrees of north latitude. By Abul Fazel, in 
1582, it is described as follows : “ Hadowty, called also circar Nagore, is inha- 
bited by the Hadeh tribe. It contains 31 mahals, measurement 837,450 begahs; 
revenue 40,389,830 dams ; seyurghal 308,051 dams. This circar furnishes 4,500 
cavalry and 22,000 infentry.” The town of Ns^ore stands in lat. 27° 8' N. 
long. 73® 33' E. about 68 miles N. N. E. from the city of Joudpoor, and in 1807, 
was the only place of importance possessed by the adherents of Dhokul Singh, 
the young and legitimate pretender to the Joudpoor throne. 

Diowaka. — A town in the Ajmeer province, 40 miles N. from the city of 
Ajmeer. Lat. 27“ 18' N. long. 74“ 21' E. 

Jahil. — town in the Ajmeer province, 58 miles N. W. from the city of 
Ajmeer. Lat. 27* 10' N. long. 73® 56' E. 

THE SHEKAWUTTY COUNTRY. 

This district is situated about the 28th degree of north latitude, and is said 
to have received its name from a predatory tribe of Arabs. It extends about 
80 miles firom north to south, and rather less from east to west, but its limits on 
alt sides are extremely ill defined, and fluctuate with political circumstances. 
To the north it is bounded by the British district of Hurrianna ; on the south 
by those of the Jeypoor Raja ; to the east it has Hurrianna and territories sub- 
ject to the Macherry Raja, and to the west the dominions of Joudpoor and Bi- 
omere. The surface of Shekawutty presents to the view a sandy plain, scattered 
’•Hth rodey hilb, ill watered and badly cultivated ; yet it contain.^ several con- 
ritd«tabfe towns, the most noted of wMch are Seekur, Futtehpoor, Khetri and 
file suds are interspersed with tufts td* bI^; grass, riie baubool (mi- 



536 THE PROVINGE OF [•amcAinjTTT. 

mosa Arabica), the kurreel or caper tree, and a bush named phoke, which In^ii 
said to be peculiar to the great Ajmeer desert and its borders. The coimtry »i 
naturally strong, being encircled by hills and secured by passes, the prind^ of 
which Ketree, Kundeela, Oudipoor and Babhye. Near the last is a copper 
mine. 

The Shekawutty chiefs are a military class, feudatories to the Raja of Jeypoor, 
by whose assistance they were enabled, at no very remote period, to wrest Uteir 
present territories from the Kyaukhanies, a tribe of converted Hindoos. In 

1 805. the principal Shekawutty chiefs were, 1st. Row Bishen Singh of Munno- 

hurpoor, nominally the head of them all In returning the respectful salute of ,• 
the other chiefs he brings his hand no higher than his breast, and this marks his I 
superiority. \ 

2d. Meer Singh Dass and Pertaub Singh, the Rajas of Kundeela and Rewarra, \ 
then imprisoned at Jeypoor. \ 

3d. Vbhee Singh and various other chiefs of the Khetri caste. Ubhee Singh 
held the district of Katpolee from the British government for 20,000. rupees 
per annum. 

Bhuil is a good sized town m the Shekawutty country, about eighteen miles 
W. by S. of Khiro. In consequence of its being situated on the high road from 
the Punjab to Bicanere, its inhabitants were accustomed to extort heavy con- 
tributions from the merchants, and frequently plundered them altogether. In 

1806, Saheb Singh, the Raja of Bicanere, accompanied by his allies, laid siege 

to Bhuil, and forced its chief to restore the property of which he had robbed 
the merchants, and also to give hostages for his future good behaviour. The 
Shekawutty troops are mostly cavalry. In 1813, a party of them, of the Silhe- 
dee tribe, made a predatorj' excursion to the Hurrianna, near Behil, and plun- 
dered the country. Although nominally the subjects of the Jeypoor Raja, tliey 
seldom paid any regard to his mandates, in consequence of which, the British 
government gave orders, that these freebooters should in future be pursued 
across the frontier into the country which afforded them an asylum, and 
destroyed wherever they could be found. In 1818, the Sheluiwutties, after an 
unusu^ interval of tranquillity (4 years), again became troublesome, in conse- 
quence of which a detachment marched into their country, where it Mptuied 
their wall towns and levelled many of their mud forts ; but the tribes end their 
chiefs still continued refiraetory, wA rejected all subordinatioa to Uieir fimdld 
superior the Jeypoor Raja.— f Ueut. WhiU, 

Kautmt.— A town in the Ajmeer province, 76 mUes N. from tto city of Jfey- 
poor. Ut. 27* 69'N. long. 76*34' E. 

jKjcirnAitA.— A town in the CjmeerfseoviiiQe, 63 mSei If. If, W. 
of Jeypoor, Lit. 27* 86' N. long. 75* Iff E. 



JETPOOB.] AJMEER, OR RAJPOOTANA. 53? 

13 LAMPOOB.— A town in the Ajmeer province, 85 miles N. by W. from the 
city of Jeypoor. Lat. 28* 6' N. long. 75* 15' E. 

JuKDAH. — A town in the Ajmeer province, 75 miles N. N. W. from the city 
of Jeypoor. Lat. 27“ 60' N. long. 72* 17' E. 

Futtvpoob. — A town in the Ajmeer province, 85 miles N. W. from the city 
of Jeypoor. Lat. 27* 60' N. long. 74“ 46' E. 

SiKAR. — ^A town in the Ajmeer province, 70 miles N. W. from Jeypoor. Lat. 
27* 30' N. long. 74* 45' E. 

Jhooxjoona — A town in the Shekawutty country, 112 miles W. S. W, from 
Delhi, lat. 28“ 2' N. long. 75“ 22' E. This is a handsome town, ornamented 
with some trees and gardens, which make a pleasing appearance in the desert 
by which it is surrounded. It appertains to independent Rajas of the Sheka- 
wutty tribe. — ( Eiphimtoite, 

JEYPOOR OR JYENAGUR (Jtiifanagara). 

A Rajpoot principality in the province of Ajmeer, situated principally be- 
tween the 2Gth and 28th degrees of north latitude. To the north it is bounded 
by the dominions of the Macherry Raja, and Shekawutty ; on the south by 
Kerowly, Tonk, Boondee, and other petty states ; to the cast it has the Ma- 
cherry and Bhurtpoor territories, and on the west the district of Ajmeer and 
the Joudpoor territories. In length the dominions of Jeypoor have been esti- 
mated at 150 miles, by 70 from east to west; but it has rarely happened that the 
whole of this space has been under actual submission to the nominal chief. 

The eastern, north-eastern, southern, and south-western tracts of this country, ■ 
produce wheat, cotton, and tobacco, and in general whatever is common to 
other parts of India ; but the country is mostly watered from wells, the 
streams being few and scanty. The northern and north-western districts are 
more sandy and not so well supplied with moisture as the central parts, but in 
the mountainous territory some rivulets arc found. The Raja is in possession 
of Sambher, which yields plenty of salt, as do likewise the districts of Sin- 
ganah and Berat ; in additit)n to these, the country produces copper, alum, blue- 
Htone, and verdigris. In most parts of Jeypoor there are good cattle, but not 
equal in quality to tliose of Joudpoor, and in several of the towns, manufac- 
tories of cloth, swords, and matchlocks, « The imports are fine cloth, tissue, the 
manufactures of Benares, and shawls from Cashmere. From Gujerat and Tatta 
are supplied opium, lead, and sheet copper ; and from Persia, fruit and horses. 
The caravans formerly passed by Bicanere, but more recently through Joudpoor 
and Jesselmerc. 

In the southern portion of the Jeypoor territories, the cultivators are named 

rot. I. 3 z 



538 THE PROVINCE OF [jetpoor, oe 

Meenas, and are of the Khetri caste, but not styled Rajpoots ; the latter think- 
ing it derogatory to follow any other profession than that of arms. The Raj- 
poots, however, frequently rent large farms, but employ Meenas to cultivate 
them,. In the districts of Kotah and Boondee, which are to the south of Jey- 
poor, tho Meenas inhabiting the hills and jungles, devote themselves exclusively 
to thieving, and eat meat and drink spirits without scruple. In other quarters 
of this state, the great mass of cultivators are Jauts, who are kept by the Raj- 
poots in the strictest obedience. The latter follow the practice, so general in 
Rajpootana, of occasionally putting their female offspring to death. 

The Jey poor* territory is compact and comprehends the most populous an^ 
fertile portion of the Ajmeer province. It also abounds with fortresses, some of 
them the strongest in Hindustan, and deemed by the natives impregnable. par-\ 
ticularly that which defends the capital and Rantampoor. Besides these, there \ 
are a great number of small forts scattered over the country, and half of the vil- 
lages are fortified with walls and ditches. Many of the Jeypoor fortresses are 
built on the top or on the slopes of hills, covering the towns at their base, which, 
although extremely faulty as a defensive arrangement, has a very imposing eflect 
when viewed from a distance. The hills on the other hand are toO low for 
grandeur, and too barren to be pleasing. In 1805, the revenues of Jeypoor 
were estimated at 60 lacks of rupees, and the military force at 8000 infantry, 
and 10,000 cavalry, besides numerous adherents. The respective Rajpoot chiefs, 
for the most part, held their lands on the feudal system of tenure ; over which 
the Raja, if a weak man, has little power. The durbar, or court, held at the 
capital, is distinguished by its pride, splendour, and formality. In the Lord’s 
prayer, as given in the Jeypoor language, 29 of the words can be traced as being 
the same with the Bengalese and Hindostany specimens. 

The tribe of Rajpoots to which the Jeypoor family belong, is named Uutchwa, 
and is of the Suryabans, or children of the sun, being descended from Rama, the 
celebrated Raja of Oude’s second son, named Cush. From the latter, the Jey- 
poor chronologers reckon 210 Rajas in succession to Prithi Rs^, who ascended 
the throne in 1502. 

The late Raja Jugguth Singh succeeded his father, Pertaub Singh, in 
1803. The latter had possessed himself of the government on' the death of his 
elder brother, to the exclusion of tliat brother's son. Maun Singh, the legitimate 
heir. In 1805, Maun Singh wasltt Gualior with Sindia, ready to make an at- 
tempt on the throne when circumstances suited. Juggeth Singh, hb success&l 
rival, was then described as weak and cruel. During the Britbh contests with 
Sindia and Holcar, it was the policy of the Jeypoor court to keep on good terms 
with all parties while the struggle was doubtful, and to side with the strongest 



jrTENAGUR.] AJMEER, OR RAJPOOTANA. 539 

when the success was complete. While Holcar had a transitory prosperity, the 
Jeypoor Raja collected a force to assist him, which, after his complete discom- 
fiture by Ix>rd Lake, was destined to co-operate with the British army ; but on 
a report of a general confederacy of the Maharattas, and of Sindia’s advance 
from the southward, it was countermanded. This feeble policy was practisec 
by all the Rajpoot states with a view to their own preservation. 

During this campaign, the adversaries of the British government made use ol 
arguments addressed to the religious prejudices of the Hindoos, and the inexpi- 
able crimes of beef eating and peacock shooting were sounded against the 
British character through every court of Hindostan. The commander-in-chief, 
(Lord Lake) in consequence issued a proclamation, prohibiting the slaughter of 
any of the cow species in the neighbourhood of any of the holy places of Ma- 
thura and Bindrabund, which had the most beneficial effect in pacifying the 
minds of the Hindoos. As by the tergiversation of his conduct, the Jeypoor 
chief had managed to get himself excluded from the pale of British protection, 
he was left to his own resources, which, being quite inadequate to the defence 
of his dominions, they suffered the most merciless and unceasing ravages, aggra- 
vated by an interminable war of factions at court, and changes of administration. 
But, notwithstanding the misery of its condition, this state i>i 1818 was the last 
to send negociators to Delhi, and was ultimately the most difficult to settle 
with. At length, after much indecision, evasion, and procrastination, a treaty 
was signed on the 2d of April, 1818, when tlie tribute for the first year was 
fixed at 4 lacks of rupees ; the second 5 ; the third G ; 7 and 8 lacks for the 
next three years and eight lacks ever after : besides 5-lGths on any excess in 
the revenues beyond 40 lacks per annum. 

The Jeypoor territory is large, and under proper management may be ex- 
pected to yield 80 lacks of rupees per annum ; but to restore order proved a 
task of no small difficulty, not a little aggravated by the folly of the Raja, and 
the profligacy of his favourites. Such was the condition of the Jeypoor court 
when visited by Sir David Ochterlony in May, 1818, <m which occasion three 
menial servants (one a eunuch) were presented to him by the Raja as the mem- 
bers of his cabinet, and the conductors of all affairs, foreign and domestic. A 
convention of the principal lhakoors was attempted, but many, presuming on 
the strength of their fortresses, opposed the arrangements ; in consequence of 
which it became necessary to reduce Khooshalghur and IMadharajpoor ; nor can 
the settlement be said to be yet completed. The Raja, mentioned above, died 
in December, 1818, and the succession is now disputed by Mausingh, a posthu- 
mons and, it is alleged, spurious son of the late Raja's uncle, and a distant 
rdation of the Narwar branch, hastily placed on the throne by Mahur Ram, 

3 z 2 



540 THE PROVINCE OF [jetpoor, or 

the eunuch already alluded to. On this important subject all parties look to 
the British government for a decision ; and one of the first blessings to Jeypoor 
resulting from the connexion, will be the establishment of a regular line of suc- 
cession, a point hitherto settled by the issue of a destructive civil war. — 
(Brougjiton, Metcalfe, Prinsep, G. Thomas, Rennell, Hunter, <§’C. %c.) 

Jkvpoor (Jat/apura).— The capital of the preceding principality, is situated 
about 150 miles S. S. W. from Delhi, in lat. 26® 66' N. long. 75* 37' E. This 
city is of modern date, having been founded by Raja Jeysingh, in the reign of 
Mahommtd Shah, which circumstance had the efiect, not uncommon in Hin- 
dostan, of changing the name of the province to that of the capital. The prior 
metropolis was the city of Amber. At that period the city of Jeypoor was in 
a high state of improvement and the seat of science. Raja Jeysingh, being a 
great encourager of learning, and the founder of several observatories for astro- 
nomical researches. 

The town of Jeypoor is handsome, and reckoned one of the most regularly 
built in Hindustan. The houses are of stone, and the streets, which are large 
and spacious, intersect each other at right angles. A citadel which commands 
the town is built on a steep rock, and around it a chain of fortification extends 
four miles in circumference. This place is the great mart for horses from Persia 
and the northern provinces of llindostan. The present Raja possesses the city, 
but externally his dominion fluctuates incessantly, one time extending to a dis- 
tance of above 200 miles, and again in a short space circuinscribed Avithin the 
avails of his capital. A considerable part of liis territory is usurped by feuda- 
tories too powerful to subdue, and another portion has been so regularly visited 
by the Maharatta plunderers, as to yield him little or no annual revenue. The 
city itself is probably well calculated for resistance against native armies, as it 
has withstood many a siege and baffied the besiegers. 

In A. D. 1798, after the treacherous massacre of Mr. Cherry and the other 
English gentlemen at Benares, Vizier Ali fled to Jeypoor, intending eventually 
to seek a refuge with the sovereign of Gabul. The Marquis Wellesley being 
anxious to bring the assassin to punishment, dispatched Colonel -Collins as em- 
bassador to the reigning Raja, Pertaub Singh, to procure his surrender; to 
accomplish which purpose he authorized him to expend to the amount of three 
lacks< of rupees. A long negociation ensued, in the course of which the Raja 
expressed great real or affected reluctance to infringe the rights of hospitality* 
even towards so great a villain ; but'the spirited remonstrances of the embassa- 
dor, backed by the seasonable distribution of the money, effected his capture, 
under the stipulations that he should neither be put to death nor confined in 
chains. He was in consequence confined in a spedes d cage, opoa on two 



JTESAOUE.] AJMEER, OR RAJPOOTANA. 541 

sides, erected in one of the bomb proofs of the ramparts of Fort William, where* 
he remained until death released him in 1817. In 1819, his place was supplied 
by the noted Trimbuckjee Dainglia. During the campaign of 1817,this city was 
approached by the army under Sir David Ochterlony, but no European was 
allowed to enter the gates, through which, however, they were permitted to 
look as far as they could. From these points of vision the streets appeared wide 
and the houses of stone, the whole presenting an appearance of grandeur .sur- 
passing the generality of Indian cities.— (' Hunter, Broughton, MSH. 8gc. S$c.) 

Travelling distance from Agra, 136 miles ; from Delhi, li>6 ; from Oujein, 
285 ; from Bombay, 740 miles ; and from Calcutta, 975 miles. 

Amb£r (or Ambeer ). — The ancient capital of the Jeypoor territories, until 
Mirza Raja Jeysingh, in the reign of Aurengzebe, built a new city named Jey- 
poor, since which period the Rajaship has taken that name also. It stands in 
lat. 26® 57' N. long. 75° 40' E. about five miles N. by E. from Jeypoor. The 
state of Amber, now Jeypoor, or Jyenagur, is said to have existed for the space 
of 1100 years. Jeysingh succeeded to the ancient inheritance of the Raja of 
Amber, in the year of Vicramaditya, 1750, corresponding to A. D. 1693. His 
mind was early stored with the knowledge contained in the Hindoo Shastras ; 
but he appears peculiarly to have attached himself to the inathematical scicnceii', 
and his reputation was so great that he was chosen by the Emjieror Mahom- 
med Shah to reform the calendar. He finished his tables A. D. 1728. — (Hun- 
ter, Franklin, ^r.) 

Sambeb (Sambhant, a store ). — A Rajpoot town in the province of Ajmeer, 
situated about 51 miles N. N. E. from the city of Ajmeer. Lat. 20° 53' JV. long. 
74® 57 E. To the north-east of this town is a salt lake 20 miles long by 1<^ 
broad, from whence a considerable part of Upper Hindostan is supplied with 
salt, and from whence during the Mogul government it was carried, as far as 
Benares and Bahar. 

The Samber salt is collected on the shore of the lake, towards the close of the 
hot heason, without previously undergoing any artificial process. It is then 
spread out and exposed to the sun for ten or fifteen days, in which space of time 
it hardens, and forms large lumps, which are gathered into heaps. On these 
heaps a quantity of dry grass is placed and set fire to, which calcines the ex- 
tend particles, and makes an external covering sufficient to withstand the* rain. 
In this state it is sold, and reaches the different markets broken into small pieces 
from the jolting of the carriages. — (J. Grant, J. T. Bromi, ^'C.) 

Chatsoo. — ^A town in the Ajmeer province, 22 miles S. S. E. from the city 
of Ajmeer. Lat. 26® 38' PI. long. 75® 47' E. 



542 THE PROVINCE OF [bamwoia. 

JoLYA. — town in the Ajmeer province, 42 miles S. S. E. from the city of 
Jeypoor. Lat. 26® 21' N. long. 75 0' E. 

Lalsooxt. — ^A town in the Ajmeer province, 40 miles S. E. from the city of 
Jeypoor. Lat. 26° 33' N. long. 76° 9' E. 

Bagaeoo. —A town in the Ajmeer province, 18 miles S. W. from the city of 
Jeypoor^. Lat. 26° 49' N. long. 75° 22' E. 

Newaiiv. — A town in the Ajmeer province, 37 miles S. by E. from the city 
of Jeypoor. Lat. 26° 33' N. long. 75° 44' E. 

Madiiarajpoob. — A town in the Ajmeer province, 24 miles S. S.E. from the 
city of Jeypoor. Lat. 26° 35' N. long. 75° 30' E. In 1818, this place was occu- 
pied by a refractory feudatory of the Raja of Jeypoor, to whose assistance a 
British detachment was sent, under Colonel Thompson, which took it by assault, 
with the loss of 4 killed and 10 wounded. It had previously resisted Ameer 
Khan for nearly a whole year. 

Rantampoor flianotampura). — A city and strong fortress in the province of 
Ajmeer, in the centre of the Arrabarrce hills, 75 miles S. £. from Jeypoor. Lat. 
2G° N. long. 76° 18' E. 

Barwarbah. — A mud fort with round bastions and a ditch, ten miles west 
of Rantampoor. Lat. 26° 3' N. long. 75° 3' E. 

Bhagm untgur. — A Rajpoot village in the province of Ajmeer, 16 miles 
N. W. from Rantampoor. Lat. 26° 10' N. long. 76° 5' E. 

Candiiab (Gandhara ). — A to^yn in the province of Ajmeer, 12 miles E. 
from Rantampoor. Lat. 26° N. long. 76° 29' E. 

Malpoora. — k town in the Ajmeer province, 48 miles S. S. W. from the city 
of Jeypoor. Lat. 26° 20' N. long. 75° 12' E. 

To^*K. — ^A Rajpoot town in the province of Ajmeer, which has been for many 
years past an appendage of the Holcar family. It stands in lat. 26° 12' N. 
long. 75° 38' E. and about 50 miles S. from Jeypoor. In 1804, when Tonk, 
Rampoora, and the lands attached, were conquered from Jeswunt Row Holcar 
by Lord Lake, they were estimated to yield three and a half lacks of rupees 
annual revenue. The whole were restored at the pacification in 1805, and in 
1818, after the battle of Maheidpoor, were ceded to the British government. — 
(' Metcedfe, 8^c.) 

Rampoora. — A large walled town situated close under a range of steep hills, 
70 miles S. by E. from Jeypoor. Lat. 25° 58' N. long. 75° 57' E. This is a 
place of considerable extent and popu6tion, which in 1804 was taken by assault 
by a detachment under the command of Colonel Don. In January, 1818, a 
division of infantry, under Roshun Beg and Roshun Khan, which had belonged to 



KOTAii.] AJMEER, OR RAJPOOTANA. 543 

Holcfir’s army, and continued refractory after the battle of Maheidpoor, was at- 
tacked here by the army under General Brown, and nearly destroyed, although 
the two Roshuns escaped. In order to consolidate the possessions of Ghufoor 
Khan, Rampoora was subsequently conferred on him, and it is also m contempla- 
tion to bestow a jaghire on his son, 

Kakoiia.— A large town with a castle in the province of Ajmeer, belonging to 
the Raja of Ooniara, situated 10 miles N.W. from Rampoora. Lat. 20° 1' N 
long. 75° 48' E. 

OoNiAiiA. — ^This is a large town enclosed by a wall, partly of mud and partly 
of stone. The Raja has a handsome house, within a stone enclosure, surrounded 
by a ditch. He is a feudatory of Jeypoor, and sprung from that family, but has 
long acted as an independent prince. Lat. 25“ 51' N. long. 75° 52' E. 8 miles S. 
W. of Rampoora. 

Dublaxa. — A town in the province of Ajmeer, 90 miles south from the city 
of Jeypoor. Lat. 25° 38' N. long. 75° 30' E. 

IxDJiBGiiuB. — A town in the Ajmeer province, 28 miles S. by W. from Ran- 
tampoor. Lat. 25° 39' N. long, 70° 5' E. 

Latikery.— A town in the Ajmeer province, 32 miles S. by W. from Ran- 
tampoor. Lat. 25° 36' N. long, 76° 5' E, 

Sheoi'oob (Sivapiirn). — A town in the Ajmeer province, 104 miles S. E. from 
Jeypoor. Lat. 25° 41' N. long. 70° 33' E. This is the capital of a small princi- 
pality possessed by a relation of the Jepoor Raja’s. 

Harowty ( HaruxHtti ). — A large district in the Ajmeer province, situated 
principally between the 25th and 20th degrees of north latitude. Near the 
village of Mackundra, lat. 24° 18' N. long. 76° 12' E. is a ridge of mountains, 
which extends to the east and the west, dividing the province of Malwali from 
the district of Harowty or country of the tribe Hara. The chief towns are Kotah 
and Boondee, and the Chumbul the principal river by which this territory is 
intersected. The chiefs of Boondee and Kotah are of the Chohan tribe, and are 
denominated half Rajpoots. The cultivators are Rajpoots, Jauts, Brahmins, 
Bheels, and other castes. Of the words of the Lord’s prayer in the Harowty 
language, 22 could be identihed as the same with those of the Bengalese" and 
Hindostany specimens. 

Kotah (Cata, the fort ). — ^This town is situated on the east side of the Chum- 
bul river, 150 miles S. E. from the city of Ajmeer. Lat. 25° 12' N. long. 75°45' £. 
Kotah is of considerable extent, and of an irregular oblong form, enclosed by a 
•tone wall with round bastions, within which are many good stone house, besides 
several handsome public buildings. To the west it has the river Chumbul ; and 



544 THE PROVINCE OF [kotah, 

on the north-west a clear lake, which on two sides is banked with stone, and in 
the centre has a building called Jugmundul, consecrated to religious purposes. 

The territories of this petty state extend along the east bank of the Chumbul 
river, and were bounded on the south by the intermixed possessions of Sindia 
and holcar, and on the north and north-west by those of Jeypoor and Boondee* 
At present, including the cessions received from the British government, this 
native state possesses a compact and well defined territory, equal to an area of 
5500 square miles. Formerly Kotah was a component portion of the Boondee 
principality, but by the assistance of the Jeypoor Raja became independent, and 
its territories were subsequently increased by acquisitions from the neighbourii^ 
chiefs of Kerowly and Shapoor. The dominions of Kotah are situated on the 
high road from Hindostan to the Deccan, and comprehend the Muckundra. passt 
the revenue in 1805 was estimated at 25 lacks of rupees per annum. About 30 
years ago the legitimate Raja of the the Hara tribe was placed in confinement' 
by Zalim Singh, who usurped the management of affairs and appointed himself 
regent, treating the Raja, however, with an external show of submissive respect. 
Zalim Singh has maintained possession of his self-appointed dignity ever since, 
and has upon the whole conducted afifairs in most eventful times with considerable 
energy and success. Indeed a part of his territories within the limits of Mewar, 
inhabited by the savage Meenas, could scarcely be kept in order, except by the 
severe and unrelenting policy which he has exercised. In 180G, he put a stop 
to the barbarous practice which had before existed of kidnapping children from 
the Kotah territories for the purpose of selling them as slaves at Delhi. In 1818, 
a treaty of alliance which had been for some time negotiating was ratified by the 
Marquis of Hastings, and presented in full court by Captain Tod, the British 
envoy. There was a peculiarity in the engagement with this chief characteristic 
of the Rajpoot tribe. The legitimate Raja of Kotah is still living, but Zalim 
Singh has long held him in strict surveillance within the fortress of Gangroon ; 
yet when the British government was prepared to conclude engagements direct 
with Zalim Singh, as existing occupant, without reference to the lawful chief, and 
to have guaranteed the succession to his heirs, he rejected the proposal, and 
requested the treaty might be made with Raja Kishore Singh, to whom and his 
heirs the throne is guaranteed, but with reservation of perpetual administration 
to Zalim Singh, and his heirs for ever, under the title of Dewan. Zalim Singh 
stood up to r^eive it, and present a nuzzer, or offering of 101 gold mohure, on 
the part of his nominal master the Raja, and 21 from himself. Salutes were 
then fired from the ramparts of Kotah, Gangroon and Shahabad, and much bustle 
ensued, the whole court and camp appearing to sympathize with the ancient 



•f»iil»g,3 AJMBER, OR RAJPOOtANA. 545 

polltkaftik. Sbee that period, m cotiaeqoe&oe of the additbnal territories con- 
brtedoii him by the British government, he ranks as one of the principal powers, 
(if powers they may be called) of Hindostan. — (Hunter, Tod, Broughton, Priiuep, 

Raojohub, — ^A town in the Ajmeer province, 25 miles E. by S. from Kotah. 
Lat. 25* r N. long. 76“ 7' E. 

Kbvtove. — town in the provmce of Ajmeer, 11 miles E. by S. from Kotah. 
Lat. 25* U' N. long. 75“ 54' E. 

CKtkoaileo. — ^A town in the provmce of Ajmeer, 7 miles N. by E. from 
Kotah. Lat. 25“ 17' N. long. 75“ 47' E. 

Setsunkah. — A town in the Ajmeer province, 24 miles S. from Kotah. Lat. 
24“ 62' N. long. 75“ 37' E. 

Boomtdee (Bundi ). — A prmcipality of Rajpootana, situated towards the south- 
eastern extremity in the Harowty district. The Boondee Raja is of the Kara 
tribe, and was formerly a power of importance ; but by the loss of the greater 
part of his territories, which were formed into the distinct government of Kotah, 
under one of the Raja’s family, his revenue was greatly reduced, and consequence 
in proportion. Prior to 1818 his territories were bounded on the south and east 
by the Chumbul; on the west the pergunnah of Jehajghur, a dependency of 
Kotah ; and on the north by certam sub-divisions of Jeypoor, and the partially 
independent state of Ooniara. The whole of these territories, m peaceable times, 
were reckoned capable of yielding six lacks of rupees per annum ; but at that 
date more than one half were in the hands of Sindia and Holcar, who generally 
leased their shares for a small sum of annual revenue to a farmer, who endea- 
voured to extort the most he could from the cultivators during the existence of 
his temporary authority. In 1817, the total revenue realized by the Raja 
amounted only to 60,000 rupees per annum; and about one lack more was derived 
by his relations and military retainers from the lands they held in jaghire of 
the government. Sindia seldom received above 65,000 rupees, although the 
nominal rent was 80,000. Owing to these causes, the Boondee peasantry were 
greatly impoverished by the variety of oppressions they experienced, while the 
government was sunk in apathy and despair, suffering poverty, ignominy, and 
distress, b a great measure brought on by the services which the Raja, in 1804, 
bid rendered Colonel Monson and his army during their disastrous retreat, in 
return for which, at the pacification of 1805, he was abandoned by the British 
goveniment to the tender mercies of the Maharattas. 

But, although late, his reward at length came, for by the arrangements of 1818, 
ho has hem wholly freed from foreign intruders, and received besides a consi- 
dtfrable addirion of territory, to enable him to rank as an efficient member of the 
tot, I. 4 a 



546 THE PKOVINCE OF CsKAHPooftAii, 

general federation of Hindostan, under the protection of the BHtish gpvemittent. 
When this powerful interference relieved the Baja from the bondage under 
which he had so long groaned, he felt as if unct^ed after a long impriscnment^ 
and was quite at a loss what use to make of his liberty. His subjects abo, who 
had probably experienced more oppression than periiaps any others, except 
those of Odeypoor, were equally rqjoiced at their emancipation. 'All Holcar’s 
acquisitions from the Raja were recovered for him, as were also Sindia’s pos» 
sessions within the Raja’s limits, and lastly the town of Patun, an ancient 
domain for which he expressed a strong desire, was acquired for him by com' 
promise with Holcar, but Sindia still holds his share. — (Tod, Sir John Malcolm, 
Hunter, ^c. ^’c. S^c.) • I 

Boondee. — ^T he town of Boondec is situated in lat. 26° 28i N. long. 76° 3(yl 
£. It stands on the southern declivity of a loi^ range of hills, which runs^ 
nearly from east to west. The palace of the Raja, a large massy stone buildingi 
is about half way up the hill, and a kind of fortification extends to the top. 
The neighbouring hills are inhabited by Meenas, an uncontroulable race, who 
are either cultivators or robbers, according as the seized is adapted for either 
profession. Although of small extent, and hitherto yielding but little revenue, 
the dominions of this petty state are of imports noe, as commanding Lackree 
and Boondee, the principal passes from the south into Upper Hindustan. The 
Iasi is also the road from Agra. At present the Boondee Raja’s territories 
occupy an area equal to about 2500 square miles, and are compact and well 
defined. — ( Hunter, Sir John Malcolm, 8$c. 4,'c.J 

Patux.— This place stands on the north bank of the Chumbul, within two 
two days march E. S. E. from Boondee. Lat. 25° 20' N. long. 75° 50' E. In 
1817 Patan was comparatively flourishing in the midst of ruin, owing to the 
excellent management of Lallajee Belial. Being a considerable commercial 
mart, in old times the imposts yielded a lack of rupees per annum to the 
revenue . — ( Captain Tod, 8^c.) 

Saoaneer.— A small town in the province of Ajlneer, not far from Shapoo* 
rah, surrounded by a stone wall, and belonging to the Raja of Kotah. The 
plundering hordes which have so long infested this part of the province, have 
reduced it to a state of great desolation, little else being at present Men but 
the sites of ruined and deserted villages. The nature of the soil is also sii^ 
as to require the constant assistance of man, for although feie spots of countiy 
are occasionally seen, its general tidtaracter is the revewe, presenting on tiM 
surface extensive tracts of sferile sand, and masses of barren mitm; 

SMAPocnAa. — A town in the province of Ajmeer, sttnated about 



o»«tmor.3 AJMEIR, OR RAJPOOTAKA, 54? 

$. S. E. from the city of that name. Viewed from the outside, Shapoorah has 
the appearance of strength and importance, hut within it presents a scene of 
poverty and decay. 

OuNOAPOOB. — This is a large place on the road from Kotah to Odeypoor. 
Gunga Bhye, the wife of Madhajee Sindia, lies buried here, and an establishment 
is kept up at the temple, for the support of which some villages were formerly 
assigned, but the revenues they yielded have been gradually diverted to other 
purposes. In 1818, the only cultivation seen was confined to spots in the 
immediate vicinity of the villages, all the rest remaining waste, owing to the 
disorderly condition of the country.— fTW, 

Jajohuu. — A town in the province of Ajmeer, which was wrested from the Rana 
of Odeypoor, by Zalim Singh of Kotah, about the year 1803. The surrounding 
district comprehends 84 towns and villages, 22 of which are exclusively inhabited 
by Meenas, who pay only personal service to the government they live under. 

Bhilakah. — A town in the Ajmeer province, 47 miles N. E. from the city of 
Odeypoor. Lat. 25° 26' N. long. 74“ 47' E. This place presents the appear- 
ance of former opulence and industry ; but at present, owing to the anarchy so 
long prevalent throughout Rajpootana, is nearly roofless and depopulated. 

ODEYPOOR (Udayapura). 

A Rajpoot principality of the highest rank in the province of Ajmeer, of which 
it occupies the southern extremity, and situated principally between the 24th 
and 26th degrees of north latitude. A considerable portion of the Odeypoor 
territory had anciently the appellation of Mewar, or Meywar, and its chifef is 
frequently styled in history the Rana of Chitore. It is diflicult to define the 
real extent of the Odeypoor territories, owing to their incessant fluctuation, but 
they may be considered generally as comprehending the districts of Chitore and 
Mewar. Under thi.s point of view they are bounded on the north by the J.oud- 
poor territories ; on the south by many native principalities in the provinces of 
Gv|}6Tat and Malwah ; to the cast are the territories of Kotah, Boondee, and 
Sindia ; and on the west the large district of Sarowy, nominally subject to 
Joudpoor. In 1818, their total area might be estimated at 7,300 square miles 
of turbulent and ill subdued territory. 

The sur&ce of Odeypoor is rather hflly than mountainous, and possessing 
many streams and rivulets, independent of the periodical rains, it produces when 
pimpefly cultivated, sugar, indigo, tobacco, wheat, rice, and barley ; there are 
also inm mines, and abundance of fuel. Thirty mOes north o£ the city of Odey- 
poor, sulphur is found ; but of a quality inferior to that which is procured from 
Surat. The country is naturally strong and the paths wild and intricate. In 

4a2 



548 THE PROVINCE OF toi»KTvoolt, 

1818> Cheetoo the Pindftryi bsffled every effort to overteke him in his esciqpte 
from Jawud in Rajpootana, which he effected by penetrating tiurough a most 
difficult country to the south of the Mewar district, coming out by Ohar to dm 
south-west of Oiyein, where there is a very high range of hills, whence issue 
the streams that aherwards form the Mahy river. The city of Odeypoor, which 
is situated within an amphitheatre of hills, is guarded in the approach by a deep 
and dangerous defile, which admits only of a single carriage past^ at a time; 
yet so extensive is the circuit protected by this pass, that it is said at one time 
to have comprehended between 4 and 500 villages within its range. The culti- 
vators are composed of Rajpoots, Jauts, Brahmins, Bheels, and Meenas, an^ 
nearly the whole are of the Brahminical persuasion. Their language is of 
Sanscrit origin, and the Lord’s prayer, when translated into it by the mission-\ 
aries, was found to contain 28 of the roots found either in the Bengalese or ' 
Hindostany specimens. 

The Rana of Odeypoor is of the Sesodya tribe, and is considered as the most 
noble of the Rajpoot chiefs, but has long been much inferior in temporal power 
to the Rajas of Jeypoor and Joudpoor. He is also much revered by the Mahom- 
medans, in consequence of a tradition that he is descended in the female line 
from Noushirvan the Just, who was sovereign of Persia at the birth of Mahom- 
med, and thus to have a common origin with the Seids, descended from Hossein 
the son of Ali. In 1807, the Rajas of Jeypoor and Joudpoor contended for the 
honour of marrying the Rana of Odeypoor’s daughter, and each supported his 
pretensions by the sword, thereby originating a war which brought many woes 
on Rajpootana, nor is it yet ascertained which was the successful candidate. 

The nobility %of the country are Rajpoots (Rajaputras), called Rhatores in the 
vulgar tongue. They are of the Sesodya tribe, which is esteemed the purest 
and most elevated in rank. The lands are mostly held on the feudal tenure ; but 
in the late distracted state of the Rana’s dominions, the government dues were 
rarely paid except when levied by force, and the feudatories as rarely obeyed 
his summons to appear at court. Madlmjee Sindia, by repeated immsitms, 
threw the country and government into confusion, and dissolved the attadtoent 
of the inferior chiefs, so that the revenue of the Rana m 1805 had dwindled 
down to eight lacks of rupees, while the separated chieftains estabUshed petty 
states, such as Shahpoorah, Sherghur and others, clauning independtmee. this, 
however, was not the worst that the Rana was doomed to suffer, for under die 
Maharatta sway, which he had so long experienced, his poverty became so great, 
that in 1818 no money whatever remain^ in tlm Odeypoor treasury, and the 
prince Imnsdf disbursed the small sums necessary fbr hk ^nner <apittuies» 

Beudes others of his lands oocujj^ by desultory and juedatory beafk, the 





AJMEER, OR RAJPOOTAKA. 54Q 


HMuiMittAii* of TOeeat yom, the following bad been anigned to the Sindit and 

Hotofomiliei^ viz. 

% 

In Swwmt Row Bhow’a hands 1,100,000 rupees. 

la Bapoo Sindians ditto 185,000 

Ruttaaghur, &c 300,000 

Total leads hc^d by Sindia 1,585,000 


Ditto by Holcar 1,475,000 

To these night be added the respective shares of Bapoo Sindia and Delil 
Khaa, each three lacks and a half annually, being the aggregate tribute of the 
collective body of feudal chiefs, settled long ago at a meeting of Bapoo Sindia, 
Jumsheed Khan, and their officers, with the chiefs of Mewar and the Rana’s 
functionaries, near the city of Odeypoor ; which convention was intended for ever 
to suppress all predatory extortions in the province. The most sacred oaths 
were exchanged ; Bapoo swore on the Ganges, and Jumsheed on the Koran ; 
but the ink was scarcely dry, and a few instalments paid, when the old scenes 
recommenced with increased violence and barbarity, while Jumsheed bestowed 
the most opprobrious epithets on the Rana within the precincts of his own palace. 

From this most horrible bondage the Rana of Odeypoor was rescued by the 
British government, and a treaty concluded, by the conditions of which it was 
to receive one-fourth of the revenue realized for the first five years, and three- 
eighths ever after ; the last proportion to be also received from any acquisitions 
recovered for the Raja. After this his prospects brightened, and the chiefs 
and nobles, his former feudatories, daily repaired to offer him their obeisance. 
But his poverty still continued, and the consequence was, that inferior officers 
were detached with bodies of troops to manage forts and pergunnahs, without 
any provision for their expenses, and it mattered little to the scanty population 
of his dominions, whether the rod were used by the Rana’s own rapacious 
officers, or by the miscreants who had been expelled by the interference of the 
Brittsh government. In January, 1818, General Donkin describes the country 
9M equalling in richness any space in India that he had seen, with the excep- 
tion of the tracts round Tonk Rampoora; but that the first cultivation of any 
that had been met with since he entered this desolated province was 
launedtately adjoining the fortress of Sanganeer, half a mile from which the 
lind ttill remained an unproductive waste. Unfortunately the Rana’s personal 
<dtatiet«r was Httiie adapted to the existing emergency, having (besides his 
hvbiitwil indolence) had his mental faculties injured by his long and hopeless 
dq»eMion, while no otmfidential advisers remained whose talents were ade- 



550 THE PEOVINcm OE [odet^h, 

quate to the crisis. One of the most ruinous courses pursued by the 
vras the lavish and indiscriminate grants of land, bestowed for various purposes, 
through favour or faction. 

The British government felt a natural anxiety to restore the prosperity and 
regenerate, if practicable, the decayed institutions and misapplied resources of 
this ancient state ; but any systematic interference with the Rana’s internal 
management is equally precluded by the conditions of the treaty and considera- 
tions of general policy. Under these circumstances the appointment of a 
minister of capacity and integrity, disposed to act in concert with the Britu^ 
government for the good of his prince and country, would be the most advaiji- 
tageous arrangement, but even this is rendered hopeless by the absence i^f 
talent, experience, and influence, among those whose birth and station woul^ 
have otherwise rendered them conspicuous. Notwithstanding these untowar 
obstacles, some amelioration has taken place, and in 1818, theRanas court,' 
when visited by Captain Tod, was found respectably attended by various chiefs 
who had not been there for many years, and by some who had never been there 
at all. Hopes were also entertained that the whole would attend, and yield up 
the crown lands they had usurped, without any direct interference on the part 
of the British government, now that the barrier which had so long separated 
them from their sovereign, and retained both in thraldom, was Removed. — 
(Public MS. Documents, Tod, George Thomas, Brottghton, Wilford, S^c, S^c.) 

Odevpoor. — ^This town is situated a few miles to the west of the Banass 
river in lat. 24® 58' N. long. 74* 14' E. It stands within an amphitheatre of 
hills, which has but one road that admits of a carriage, but there are two other 
passes through which single horses can go. The wells in the neighbourhood, 
although but a small distance from the surface of the earth, are strongly 
impregnated with mineral particles, which flow with the water from the hills. 
The town has long been declining along with its sovereign, but in 1818, on his 
emancipation from the yoke of the Maharattas, it received an immediate acces- 
sion of several thousand inhabitants . — ( George Thomas, l^c. Sgc,) 

Mewar. — R ajpoot district in the province of Ajmeer, of which the modern 
capital is Odeypoor, situated principally between the 25th and 26th degrees of 
north latitude. By Abul Fazel in 1582, it is described as fdlows : ** Meywar 
contains 10/000 villages, and the whole clrcar of Chitore is depead<mt <m it. 
It it 40 cost long and 30 brott^i and has three very eoasidmble 
^tore, Coombhere, and Udandel. In Chowra it an iron mhie* and 
poor, and some places dependent on Mandel, are copper mines,** In tsodinn 
liraes the Mewar district it of more limited extent, and has bemi hot very 
, ':vlmperfisedy':ex|^oredi . ,, 



©o^Vfoo*,] AJMBfiB, OB BAJPOOTANA. 55il 

' '' ' t ' f 

town w the capita! of the tract in the province of Ajmeer* 
Oodhinr, and three reigns back belonged to the Bana of Odeypoor. Its 
^abgrapldcal sitnation is unascertained. 

Jalore. — town in the Ajmeer province, 33 miles south from Odeypoor. 
tM. 24® 30' N. long. 74® 25' E. 

BArnooRA CNatka Devara, the Temple of God ). — A town in the province of 
Ajmeer, situated about 24 miles N. from the city of Odeypoor. Here is a 
c^brated Hindoo temple of great sanctity, having many villages appropriated, 
.which are considered sacred by the contending Rajpoot and Maharatta armies. 
The Oossains (Hindoo devotees) carry on a considerable trade with Gujerat 
and Tatta, and also with the rest of*Rajpootana and Upper Hindostan. — 
(Rno^ktott, 6th Register, ^c.) 

Ohitore (Chaitur). — A Rajpoot district in the province of Ajmeer, and 
nominally subject to the Rana of Odeypoor, who is named indiscriminately the 
Rana of Chitore, Mewar, and Odeypoor. The latter town in modern times 
having become the capital has rendered obsolete the other appellations. By 
Abul Fazel in 1582, this district is described as follows ; “ Circar Chitore, 
containing 26 mahals; measurement 1,678,802 begahs; revenue 30,047,469 
dams; seyurghal 360,737 dams. This circar furnishes 22,000 cavalry, and 
82,000 infSuitry.” At present the chief towns are Chitore, Jalore, and Bam* 
poora ; the Chumbul is the principal river. 

The town of Chitore was for several centuries the capital of a powerful Raj- 
poot principality, and much celebrated for its strength, riches and antiquity 
when taken and despoiled by Acber in 1567. The fortress of Chitore is situ- 
ated on the top of a high and rugged mountain, about eight miles in circum- 
ference, and is considered a place of great strength. It was first conquered by 
Hie Mahommedans, A. D. 1303, during the reign of Allah ud Been, the scourge 
the Hindoos. It was subsequently taken by Acber, and, in 1680, again 
subdued and plundered by Azim Ushaun, the son of Aurengzebe ; permanent 
possession of the fortress does not, therefore, appear to have been retained by 
the Patan or Mogul emperors. In 1790, it was taken by Madhajee Sindia, 
from Bheem Singh, a rebellious subject of the Odeypoor Raja, to whom it 
was restored in conformity to a previous agreement. In 1818, it was seen by 
feie detachment which was conducting the ex-Peshwa Bajerow towards 
Benares. It then appeared strong by nature, and had been made so by art ; 
but the woHts on the table land having been long neglected were much decayed : 
whde die surrounding country, although natumlly fertile, was in a very miser- 
ahle condition. — (Retmell, Ibrnter, Mmrkt, ds^.d^c.) 

;^i>AiaM7R Lake.— This lake is situated m a wild hRly coimtiy at the southern 



552 THE PROVINCE OP [iAnovt. 

extremity of tiie Ajmeer [Mronnoe, about Utt. 28* 16' N. Umg. 73* 60' W. Ry 
the natives it is said to be the source of &e Saubennutty river, vrhioh flows past 
Ahmedabad and fldls into flie gulf of Cambay but as it is placed in one of tM *- 
least explored portions of Rindostan, nothing positive respecting it can be 
affirmed. 

a 

Kumulnebe. — T his is one of the strongest forts of upper Hia^ostaa, and 
particularly the one in which the Pindaries were desirous of depositing tbdlr 
families and baggage during the campaign of 1817-18. Along with Rypo<»and 
Rajnag^r it had been recently usurped from Odeypoor by Sindia, and his com' 
mander, Jeswunt Row Show, but after their recapture they were restored to 
the Rana. I 

In February, 1818, Sir John Malcolm demanded from Jeswunt Row Bhow\ 
the surrender of the forts of Bealghur, and Kumulnere. The first was suiTmi-\ 
dered to Oeneral Donkin before the order for its delivery was received ; but \ 
the last being occupied by refractory Patans lirom Holcar’s army, its surrender ^ 
was procrastinated for some time, but at last effected without bloodshed. The 
whole of this portion of Mewar had been for some time subject to the depreda- 
tions of Duleel Khan, who resided at Nembekarah (a jaghire belonging to Ameer 
Khan’s family), and for eight years had laid the neighbouring country under 
contribution. This chief being offered service by General Malcolm, accepted it, 
and joined him with a party of excellent horse, which had the beneficial effect of 
giving confidence to the inhabitants, who through fear of these marauders had 
deserted their villages, &c . — (Sir John Malcolm, ^x,) 

Ruttunohur. — A town in the Ajmeer province, 25 miles E. by S. from the 
city of Odeypoor. Lat. 24® 51' N. long. 75® 6' E. 

Salanghur. — A town in the Ajmeer province, 30 miles S. from Chitore. 
Lat. 24® 14' N. long. 74® 47' E. 

Jawud. — X town in the Ajmeer province, 50 miles S. E. from Odeypoor. 
Lat. 24® 36' N. long. 74® 55' E. At the commencement of the Pindary cam- 
paign, this place was possessed by Jeswunt Row Bhow, one of Sindia’s principal 
commanders, who being convicted of harbouring the Pindaries and of other acts 
of contumacy, Jawud was stormed by the troops under General Brown, on the 
28th January, 1818, with little loss on the part of the assailants. The porgun- 
niJiof Jawud, agreeably to the conditions of the treaty watered into with Siaffia, 
was at first seized and appropriated by the British government, but aftetcwirds 
restored to him. ^ 

SAROWY r&rtfiw;. 

A large district which occupies the soufli-westem division of the AJamer 
province, and ntaated between the 24tb and 26th degreea of, noi^ Iriil* 



AJMEER, OE RAJPOOTAKA. 553 

tude. By Abul Fazd, in 1582, it is described as follows : " Circar Sarowy, 
containing six mahsls ; revenue 42,077,437 dams. This circar furnishes 8000 
cavalry and 88,000 hiiantry.” To the north, the modem limits of this dis- 
trict disappear in the great desert ; on the south is the province of Gujerat ; 
to the ^t Mewar and Chitore ; and on the west the channd of the Banass 
river, and die dominions of the Ameers of Sinde. The eastern quarter is wavy 
and hilly, but more productive than the western, which gradually merges into the 
desert, and is almost destitute of water, which can only be procured in scanty 
quantities from very deep wells. This local peculiarity, added to the internal 
dissentions and predatory habits of the native chiefs, keeps the country in a very 
backward state of cultivation, and checks the increase of inhabitants, who are 
thinly scattered over extensive tracts of jungle and sand. From Abul Fazel’s 
description, it would appear from the amount of revenue it yielded and the 
quota of troops assigned, that it must have existed in a more flourishing state than 
it at present exhibits. The chief river is the Banass, but its waters are either 
abstracted for the purposes of irrigation, or absorbed in the sands ; for no cur- 
rent of any description reaches the sea. This territory is occupied by many 
petty Rajpoot chiefs, most of whom have occasionally paid tribute to the Odey- 
poor or Joudpoor sovereignties. 

Sarow V ( Sarui ). — The capital of the above district, but now a place of little 
note. It stands about 62 miles west from Odeypoor, in lat. 24® 62' N. long. 
73* 16' E. The Sarowy Raja’s family is a branch of that of Pertaubghur 
Deolah, and thence called Deolah Rajpoots. They are Sesodyas of the Rana 
of Odeypoor’s own line, yet may be described as independent both of that state 
and of Odeypoor, having never paid tribute to either but when extorted by the 
edge of the sword . — ( Public MS. Documents, 8gc.) 

Pertavbohur Deolah. — A town and district in the province of Ajmeer. 
Lat. ® ' N. long. ° ' E. During an investigation that took place in 1818, 

it appeared clearly established, that Pertaubghur Deolah had been long ex- 
empted flx>m any feudatory or tributary obligations towards the Rana of Odey- 
poer, so tiiat the re-establishment of the latter’s authority over this petty state 
was not desirable, nor practicable without manifest injustice. On the other 
it appeared perfectly clear, that unless Pertaubghur were controuled by 
9omt iniMre powerful state, it would become a nursery of turbulent and pr^a- 
tiwy charaetm’s, and a source of alarm to the neighbouring principalities ; 
uniter th e s e circumstances, the arrangement best suited to the emer^ncy ap- 
pealed to be, for the British government to collect the tribute, extending at the 
ritme time the benefits of its protection to Pertaubghur, on the same conditions 
AS had been granted to the other Rajpoot states. The principal objection was 
:!■ VOt. I. da,, 



S 56 the province 

resembles Lahore, except that but little rain &lls here, and the heat iaexcettiv^ 
Between Sewee and Bekhar (fiackar) is a large desert, over which, during tile 
summer months, there blows the pernimous hot wind called the Snnoom. The 
river Sinde some years inclines to the north, and sometimes to the south ; and 
the villages change accordingly. This soubah contains 3 circars, divided into 
8 pergunnahs. The measured lands are 3,273,932 begahs; the revenue 
151,403,619 dams, out of which 659,948 are seyurghal. It furnishes 13,785 
cavalry, and 165,650 infantry,” Such is Abul Fazel's delineation of this pro- 
vince during the reign of Acber, when it is probable it was but little known, as 
the detail is more than usually replete with geographical errors. The principal 
modern territorial and political subdivisions within the limits of Hindostan, are( 
the following, commencing from the north : 

1. Mooltan Proper. 4. Sinde. 

2. Bahawulpoor. 5. Tatta. 

3. Backar. 6. Chalchkaun. 

As has been mentioned above, the greatest length of the territory now dis- 
tinguished by the name Mooltan is 1 10 miles, by about 70, its greatest breadth ; 
and it is comprehended between the Sutuleje (here named the Gurrah), the 
Ravey and the Chinaub. From the right bank of the Sutuleje, journeying from 
Bahawulpoor in a north easterly direction, after the first 5 miles, in the month 
of December, the country is arid, sandy, and destitute of grass, but scattered 
over with hardy bushes, which can withstand the parched and saline soil. In 
the immediate vicinity of the villages, which are numerous, fields of wheat, 
cotton, and corn, are to be seen, and also a great number of large and deep water 
courses. The north-west comer of the desert is cut off by the streams of the 
Punjab, and the tract thus formed within reach of the periodical inundation is 
fertile, while the rest is sandy and barren, and but very thinly inhabited. Of 
this character are the districts of Mooltan Proper, Bahawulpoor, and Leia, 
which are all situated to the south of the salt range of mountains, and east of 
the Indus. Besides its natural sterility this miserable country has suffered 
greatly from the incursions of the Seiks, Afghans, the Ameers of Sinde, and 
other depredators. 

Anterior to the invasion of Hindostan by Mahmood of Ghizni, this province 
appears to have been possessed by the Mahommedans, as he is applauded by 
Persian authors for having, in A. D. 1006, subdued Duoud Khan, an A%lian 
heretic, who then occupied the country, and. compelled him to embrace tht true 
faith, from which, however, he soon after apostatized. It continued tubjeel to 
the Patan and Mogul empires until the dissolution of the latter, tJlbet u^ictl it 
underwent many changes. It was taken from MahomnuKl Shtdi, tiie Diibi 



iwoLTAK ciTF.] OF MOOLTAN. 557 

by Nidi Shah, and on the death of that conqueror devolved to Ahmed 
Shah Abdalli of Cabul. For a short time before the battle of Paniput, it was in 
tiie hands of die Maharattas, but was then lost by these plunderers and never 
recoyi^red. At a later period the Seiks held it for two years, and continued 
annually to extort pecuniary compensations for abstaining from plundering it. 
In 1809 the total revenue was estimated at 550,000 rupees, of which 250,000 
were paid to the Cabul Sovereign, to whom the Mooltan Nabob is a feudatory. 
At that date the troops within the city of Mooltan were estimated at 2000 men, 
with 20 bad guns ; but on an emergency it was supposed that 12,000 additional 
militia could be collected. Being remotely situated from the British territories, 
possessing no political or commercial importance, and being but little visited 
by Europeans, we are probably less acquainted with the interior of this 
of any other of the original provinces of Hindostan. The existing government 
is, however, with respect to exactions, monopolies, and other abuses, known 
to be execrable, the oppressions of the civil department being aggravated by 
the extortions of rapacious and ungovernable troops within, and by the miseries 
of its political situation from without— (Abttl Fazd, Elphimtone, Rennelt, 
MSS. ^.) 

Mooltan (Multan ). — ^This city stands in lat. SO® 9' N, long. 71" 7' E. four 
miles from the left bank of the Chinaub or Ascesines, which has previously 
received the waters of the Ravey (Hydraotes)and the Jhylum (Hydaspes). It is 
enclosed by a fine wall from 40 to 50 feet high, with towers at regular distances. 
It has also a citadel on a rising ground, and several fine tombs, two of which are 
ornamented with painted and glazed tiles. There are many other places of 
interment scattered round the town ; and three miles from the north bank o^ 
the river, the mountains of Afghanistan may be discerned, distant from 70 tc^ 
80 miles. During the cold season the joint stream of the Jhylum, Chinaub, 
and Ravey, at Raj ghaut, near this city, is 500 yards broad, with an average 
depth of eight feet and a half ; and the town itself stands nearly at the same 
distance from the sea as Allahabad, that is about 800 British miles by the 
courses of the rivers. 

Mooltan is noted for its silks, and for a species of carpet much inferior to 
those of Persia. The surrounding country is pleasing, fertile, tolerably culti- 
?ated, and supplied with a sufficiency of water, procured from wells. The land 
is in general ^t, and the soil excellent ; but a large proportion of the villages 
in its vicinity are in ruins, and the whole exhibiting the appearance of a country 
once prosperous going to decay. About one half of the fields are still under 
tSlagOi and abundantly watered by means of Persian wheels. The produce is 
Ootton, millet, turnips, carrots, and indigo. The trees are chiefly the 



558 THE PROVINCE fBAHAvuLMOn. 

neem (melea azadarachta) and date, with a few dispersed peepttl trees (ficus 
religiosa). The uncultivated country near the river is covered with a dense 
copse wood of tamarisk, mixed with a tree resembling the willow. At a dis- 
tance from the river the country is bare, except where scattered with tufts of 
grass and a few date trees ; the whole swarming with all sorts of game. 

This city is supposed to have been the Malli of Alexander's historians, and in 
1582 is described by Abul Fazel as one of the most ancient cities of Hindostan, 
with a brick fortress and lofty minaret, and possessing the tomb of Sheik 
Bahauddeen Zukmi, an orthodox Mahommedan saint. It appears to have been 
the seat of a principality so early as A. D. 1006, when it was plundered by , 
Mahmood of Ghizni, a fate it again experienced in 1398, when captured by the! 
Mogul array of TJin^r. For many years past the Nabob of Mooltan has\ 
acknowledged subjection to the Cabul Sovereign, and paid him annually a large ’ 
tribute for protection, which he has never received. In 1806 it was attacked, 
captured, and plundered by tlie Seik Raja of Lahore, Rui^eet Singh, who was 
then compelled to evacuate it by a scarcity of grain, but who has since annually 
repeated his visits either by proxy or in person. Besides these annoyances, in 
1 809, this miserable prince was also compelled to pay tribute to the Ameers of 
Sinde, Who, according to the Indian system of oppressing the falling, took 
advantage of his feebleness. He was then described as being able to collect a 
considerable body of troops, but wholly Unable to support them, on account of 
the weakness of his government, and the poverty and sterility of the greatest 
portion of his dominions. In 1818 Runjeet Singh again succeeded in capturing 
this unfortunate town, of which, as well as the district, it is said he still retains 
possession. — ( Elpliinstoue, Macartney, Abul Fazel, Rennell, S^c. <§’c. j 

Baham'ulpoor. — A principality of considerable extent, but small population, 
situated principally about the 29th degree of north latitude. The town of 
Bahawulpoor, from which the namej^f the country originated, is within the 
limits of the ancient province of Mooltan, about 62 miles S. by E. from the 
capital. Lat. 29° 19' N. long. 71° 29' E. 

The territory of Bahawulpoor extends 280 miles from north-east to soutli- 
west, and 120 miles from north-west to south-east at the extreme points. For 
a certain distance it includes both banks of the Indus, the Jhylum, and Chi- 
naub. The banks of the river are everywhere rich, but to the west of the 
Chinaub the soil at a distance from the rivers is very poor, and towards the 
east a mere desert. For four or fiveTtailes on each side of the Hyphasis, ^ 
surface is formed of sediment deposited by the river, and is very rich, hut so 
soft that it can scarcely support a horse. Some portions are highly cultiyaldd, 
others covered with coppice of low tamarisk trees, abounding with wild hogs; 



OOCH,1 OF MOOLTAN. 559 

hog deer, wild geese, partridges, and floricans are also plenty on the banks of 
the river. Towards the east approaching Bicanere and the Bhatty country, 
the soil degenerates to an arid sand, destitute of vegetation ; to travel through 
which an establishment of camels is as requisite to carry a supply of wdter, as 
in the deserts of Arabia. 

The principal towns are Bahawulpoor, Ahmedpoor, Jellalpoor, Seetpoor, and 
Ooch. The strongest place is the fort of Deraw ul, which owes its ability of 
resistance to the utter sterility ot the sands by which it is surrounded, yet it 
was the usual residence of Bahawul Khan, the founder of the dynasty! The 
inhabitants of this territory are Juts, Balooches, and Hindoos, which is the 
genmal composition of the population in the adjacent countries; but within th€? 
limits of Bahawulpoor the Hindoos are the most numerous. The camels of 
this arid tract are reckoned particularly fleet and excellent, and in request for 
the purposes of hunting. 

The town of Bahawulpoor stands within a short distance of the united 
streams of the Bey ah and Sutuleje, named the Gurrah, which here winds very 
much, and is muddy, but the water when cleared is of an excellent quality. 
In circumference it extends about four miles, but the walls include gardens of 
mangoe trees. The houses are built of unburned bricks, with mud terraces 
and walls of the same, very thin. It is noted for the manufacture of silken 
girdles and turbans. The inhabitants are principally Juts and Balooches, both 
of which races profess the Mahoramedan religion ; but the number of Hindoos 
is also considerable. The Afghans are considered as strangers. 

Bahawul Khan, the founder of this state, was rather a tributary prince than a 
governor delegated on the part of the Cabul sovereign. His ancestors acquired 
their dominions during the reign of Nadir Shah ; he himself succeeded when 
an infant, and in 1809 had ruled above 40 years. His family, termed Daood 
Footer, came from Shikarpoor, and was originally in a low station ; but they 
claim descent from Abbass, the uncle of the prophet Mahommed. While 
Bahawul Khan survived, the administration was mild and well conducted, and 
although like other eastern princes he was addicted to the hoarding of treasure, 
his fiscal impositions were moderate. In 1809 his revenue amounted to 
1,500,000 rupees, of which one-tenth was paid annually to the king of Cabul. 
His army then exceeded 10,000 men, including five battalions of matchlock- 
taen retgularly dressed, with several pieces of cannon well mounted, he having 
a foundery of his own. This prince died in 1811, leaving his son and successor, 
a parson of very inferior abilities, exposed to great danger from the vicinity and 
incr^Bg power of the Seiks, and the rapacity of the Ameers of Sinde.— 

4^8,<-*Aeooi4mg to Mr. Elphinstone the Indus at this place receives the 



560 THE PROVINCK [.aok*.. 

Punjnud, a river formed by the union of the Punjab waters, which, though of a 
large volume, is much inferior in size to the Indus above the junction ; there is 
reason, however, to believe, that during the dry season the confluence takes 
place much lower down. When the floods are at their height, the whole inter'* 
vening»space between Ooch and the main channel of the Indus is one vast 
sheet of water. 

The town of Ooch is situated within the territories of the Bahawulpoor 
Nabob, about 75 miles S. by W from the city of Mooltan. Lat. 29° ITN. 
long. 70° 60' E. It has probably at some remote period been of greater im- 
portance than at present, as it has ^communicated its name to a distinct 
language, which has been examined by the missionaries, who found that of 
32 words contained in a specimen of the Lord’s prayer, 26 were radically the 
same with those found in the Bengalese and Hindostany specimens. They 
ascertained also, that the Ooch or Wuch language difiered so much from the 
Doogarese, that a translation of the scriptures into the latter would be nearly 
unintelligible to a native of the Ooch country, and vice versa . — ( Elphitutone, 
Missionaries, Sgc. 8^'c.) 

Moujghur. — This place is situated about 40 miles S. £. from Bahawulpoor. 
Lat. 28° 68' N. long. 71° 67' E. The town is enclosed by high walls and towers, 
and contains a mosque placed over the gateway, as also a tomb with a cupola, 
adorned with painted tiles; but the fort as a place of defence is smflU and 
w'eak. Water is found here in considerable abundance. 

Backar (Bhakar). — ^This is a remarkable fortress, subject to the Afghans of 
Cabul, and dependent on the district of Shekarpoor, but with a distinct governor. 
It is situated on an island in the Indus, lat. 27° 20' N. long. 68° 37' E. and 
appears to have been formerly a place of note, the capital of a district described by 
Abul Fazel, in 1682, as follows : " Doabeh Behker, containing 12 mahals ; mea- 
surement 282,013 begahs; revenue 18,424,947 dams; seyurghal 60,419 dams.. 
This district furnishes 4,690 cavalry and 11,100 infantry.” By the same author 
the town is described : Behker is a good fort, which in ancient books is called 
Munsoora. All the six rivers which pass through Lahore proceed past Behker 
in a collected stream, after having divided into two, one going to the north aqd 
the other to the south of the fort. Here very little rain falls ; but the fruit is 
excellent.” 

Since the time of Abul Fazel this^fiortton of Hindostan has apparently bean 
imdergoiag a gradual deteriora.ticm by the encroaching of the denrt, of whic^ 
it threatens ere long to become a eomponmtt part, and nothmg can prevent this 
catastrophe, except what it is never likely to experience, an mpfomd sjniteitt of 
government, whkdi fritall secure to. the husbandman a reasonakde propmrfronof tlm 



siKDE.] OF MOOLTAN. 561 

products of his labour. Abul Fazel describes it as a Doab or portion of country 
included between the rivers ; and probably in his time the branch of the Indus, 
named the Nullah Stmcra, was a stream of considerable magnitude ; at present, 
however, except during the height of the floods, it is destitute of water, and 
even then never reaches the sea, the quantity being so small that it is either 
absorbed by the soil, or abstracted for the purposes of irrigation. 

In 1651, when Dara Shecoh fled from his brother Aurengzebe, he directed his 
course towards Sinde, taking possession of the strong fort of Backar, which 
afterwards stood a considerable siege. Since that distant period we have, 
scarcely any information respecting either the town or country, except tliat we 
know the former is possessed by the Afghans of Cabul, who maintain in it a 
governor and garrison . — ( Abul Fazel, Bernier, ^c. ^'C. ^'c.) 

THE PRINCIPALITY OF SINDE (Sindhu). 

This large portion of the ancient province of Mooltan occupies both banks of 
the Indus, and, on account of its having for some years past possessed a sepa- 
rate and independent government, has risen into political importance, although 
its claims to distinction in other respects are not remarkable. The general 
boundaries of this territory including Tatta, are Mooltan and Afghanistan on the 
north ; Cutch and the sea on the south ; on the east it has Ajmeer, the Sandy 
desert, and Cutch ; on the west the sea and the mountains of Baloochistan. In 
length it may be estimated at 300 miles' by 80 the average breadth, and it is 
intersected in a diagonal line throughout its whole extent by the river Indus, 
which affords moisture to the husbandman, and to the merchant an excellent 
inland navigation, only excelled by that of Bengal. On the north Sinde adjoins 
the country of Bahawul Khan, and the fort of Subzul. Proceeding from thence 
south, the country is possessed by an infinite number of petty chiefs, who are in 
general tributary to the Ameers of Sinde. 

The plain of the Indus from the sea to Sungur is included in the Sinde domi- 
nions. Of this division the portion which extends from the sea to Shekarpoor is 
itdiabited by Sindees under a native prince, tributary to the Cabul sovereign, 
and is now generally named Sinde by the British ; but in strictness it ought to 
be designated Lower Sinde, and from Shekarpoor inclusive to Sungur, Upper 
Sinde. The section to the west of the Indus is mostly inhabited by Baloochees, 
and widi the exception of a small tract, north of Shekarpoor, is directly under 
tlie government of Cabul. To the east of the Indus the province of Sinde is a 
perfect level, from its most northern boundary to the sea shore, with the excep- 
tion of two or three low hills, called the Gunjah hills, on the island formed by 
on which stands Hyderabad, the capital. On the western bank of the 
vot. 1 , 4 c 



562 THE PROVINCE [sikbi. 

river, from the latitude of Sehwan (26" C' N.) to the sea, the face of the country 
varies; some districts being mountainous, others flat, and some interspersed 
with ranges of low hills. Northward from Sehwan the plain extends to the hills 
of Seweestan. The district of Chandookee, enclosed between the trunk of the 
Indus and a remarkable branch, is highly cultivated and very productive, and 
yields, even under its present misgovemment, eight lacks of rupees annually to 
the revenue. This branch of the great river diverges to the west, and after 
spreading over a wide tract, which at different seasons is either a marsh or a 
lake, it again jmns the main stream 70 miles below the point of separation. 

A great part of the province lying to the westward of the confines where the 
monsoon ceases, is a barren sterile soil, and totally unproductive from the 
absence of moisture. Easterly from the meridian of 67" 40', the land near to 
the Indus appears capable of the highest degree of improvement; but to the 
northward of Tatta, and a small distance to the westward of that river, the 
country is mountainous, barren, rocky, and thinly inhabited. In the months of 
June and July the thermometer ranges from 90" to 100", but the air in the 
northern parts of Sinde is so pure, and so much refreshed by the cooling breezes 
from the westward, that the heat is not excessive. About Hyderabad the 
climate is healthy, and the air in the month of August remarkably clear, the 
difference of* refraction in astronomical observations being then scarcely per- 
ceptible. 

The Indus from the city of Tatta to a branch called the Fulalee has from two 
to two and a half fathoms of water ; off Tatta it has three, four, and more fre* 
quently five fathoms, with a muddy bottom. The b^ks in the vicinity of 
Hyderabad are in general well cultivated, except where the Ameers have made 
enclosures to confine game, but these are so numerous and extensive as to 
occupy many of the most valuable spots of land. In the month of August the 
Fulalee has generally two and three frthoms of water ; but daring the frdr season 
it is dried up. The Goonee branch is much the same as the Fulalee, with respect 
to inhabitants and cultivation, but has less water on an average, being only i^m 
one and a half to two fathoms. It is also much narrower, contracting in many 
places to thirty yards, and can only be termed navigable in the month of 
August. 

The cultivation of Sinde depends on the periodical mins, and Uie proe^ of 
irrigation by means of canals and water courses. During the sw^ling of the 
river grain and other seeds are raised, and the remainder of the yea is em" 
ployed in the production of indigo, sugar cane, huldee, &c. Every bqgili of 
land watered by a canal or wheel, pays a revenue of from one ai^ a qttiftn!* to 
three and a half nipecs to government; one whe^ is capable of watering tO 



OF MOOLTAN. 563 

begahs. A duty of one rupee is also levied on each khunwan (120 pounds) of 
gram reaped by the fenner. Garden land producing fruit trees pays two and a 
half rupees per begah to government, and the spring crop of tobacco yields a 
revenue of four and a half rupees per begah. But these exactions do not end 
here j for on all the productions of the earth duties are subsequently collected at 
ihe market, and articles which have paid duty in one district are not thereby 
exempted firom fresh extortions if transported into another. It generally happens 
that the sum total of duties and customs levied by the government greatly 
exceeds the original prime cost of the articles. When boats arrive at Tatta, 
a tax is exacted proportionate to the sum that has been expended in their 
construction. 

The principal articles of home produce exported from Sinde are rice, ghee, 
hides, shark fins, pot-ash, saltpetre, assafoetida, b’dellium, madder, frankincense, 
Tatta cloths, horses, indigo, oleaginous and other seeds. AUum, musk, and 
horses, are imported from Mooltan, and the countries to the northward, for re- 
exportation. The other imports into Sinde are tin, iron, lead, steel, ivory, 
European manufactures, sandal and other scented woods from the south of India; 
swords and carpets from Khorasan and Candahar ; silk and other articles from 
the Persian gulf. The Mooltany merchants settled in Sinde are the principal 
traders, and the wealthiest part of the community. 

The exports from Sinde to Bombay are shark fins and flesh, b'dellium, ghee, 
pot-ash, saltpetre, hides, oil of sesame, wheat, assafoetida, munjeet, sirshif oil, 
raisins, almonds, colouring plants, pistachio flowers and nuts, shawls, cloths, 
mustard, wild saffron, black cummin seed from Kerman, white cummin seed, 
chintzes from Sinde and Khorasan. The imports to Sinde from Bombay are 
white sugar, sugar-candy, steel, iron, tin, tutenague, lead, cochineal, betel nut, 
black pepper, dried coco nuts, vermillion, red lead, quicksilver, Bengal and 
China silks and cloths, cinnamon, cardamoms, cloves, nutmeg, sandal wood, 
ginger, China ware, pearls, aloes, and amattas. 

To Muscat are exported dressed leather, rice, wheat, ghee, sirshif oil, b’delUum, 
chintzes, and other cloths. The imports from Muscat to Sinde are dates, limes, 
roses, Ghilaun silk, elephants’ teeth, pearls, almonds, preserved fruit, cowries, 
slaves, arsenic, senna from Mecca, quince seeds, and gum. The imports lo 
Sinde firom Cutch are cotton, snuff, unwrought iron found in Cutch, and the 
■mall Arabian aloe. The intercourse between this territory and the provinces 
to northward is chiefly carried on by means of the Indus, which is navigable 
for Mmall vessels to a great distance from the sea. There are no established land 
caravans frmn Sinde to Mooltan and Cabul, but an intercourse is carried on by 
merchants and travellers. The East India Company had formerly a factory, and 

4 c 2 



THE PROVINCE 


564 




earned on a considerable trade in the province of Sinde, but it was withdrawn, 
probably owing to the disorderly state and consequent poverty of the country. 
An unsuccessful attempt was recently made by the Company from Bombay to 
renew the commercial intercourse. 

Commerce and agriculture of all descriptions have rapidly declined smee the 
accession of the present rapacious rulers of Sinde. The duties levied on foreign 
and domestic trade are estimated at two thirds of tlie capital of the merchant 
and mechanic ; and the cultivator is compelled to sell his grain at a low price to 
the government, by which it is monopolized, and subsequently resold at a con- 
siderable profit. In addition to this evil, extensive tracts of the best land on the 
banks of the Indus are set apart, and cohverted to desolate wastes aitd jungles for 
the preservation of game, the Ameers being unfortunately most passionately ad- 
dicted to hunting. The British embassy, in 1809, saw scarcely anything deserving 
the name of cultivation from Corachie to Helliah, on the road to Hyderabad, 
a distance of 150 miles. 

The internal government of Sinde is a military despotism. In 1809 the 
supreme authority was vested in three brothers of the Talpoory family, whose 
names were Meer Gholaum Ali, Meer Kurreem Ali, and Meer Murad Ali. The 
oldest brother, Meer Gholaum Ali, had the title of Hakim, or ruler of Sinde, and 
was considered as the head of the government. There were two other brothers 
of the reigning family, Meer Sohrab and Meer Thara, who, though not ostensibly 
partakers of the supreme authority, possessed large tracts of territory, and 
exercised every function of sovereignty within their respective limits. 

These Ameers belong to the Mahommedan sect of Shiahs, but they are remark- 
ably tolerant both to the Soonecs and to the adherents of the Brahmins. The 
Mahommedan population compose the military strengfth of the country, and 
during the interval of peace are employed as husbandmen, artificers, and menial 
servants; the internal commerce being almost exclusively carried on by the 
Hindoo inhabitants. The great bulk of the population consists of Hindoos, Juts, 
and Baloochees. The Hindoos were probably the Aborigines, the Juts the' 
descendants of the early converted Hindoos, and the Balooches strangers. The 
majority of the Mahommedans are of the Soonee faith, although the Ameers and 
some of the men of rank be Shiahs. Although Sinde be now but scantily 
peopled, it appears at some former period to have been much more thickly 
settled and inhabited; and the extraordinary number of tombs and burial 
grounds scattered over the country, where no population is at piresent seen, is 
quite remhrkable. From Tatta to hear Hyderabad the country is dmost destitulft 
of human beings, there being- only one village on the whole route. * 

Sinde is a province swarming With military adventurers, from whence ^ 



OF MOOLTAN 


1 


SINCE.] 


565 


native powers of Hindostan are in general supplied with infantry mercenaries. 
The armies of the Sinde government are usually collected from various tribes 
who hold lands by a military tenure from the Ameers, at whose summons they 
are oUiged to bring their quotas into the field. These tribes are reckoned at 43 
in number, many of whom have retained their distinctive appellations since the 
first Mahommedan invasion, and consisted principally of adventurers, who 
descended from the lofty mountains of Baloochistan into the plains of Sinde, 
with the exception of the Jokia and the Jut tribes, which are both of Sindian 
origin. The Ameers of Sindia collectively can bring into the field an array of 
36,000 men, composed of irregular cavalry, armed with matchlocks, swords, and 
shields, and intended to act as infantry whenever required by circumstances, and 
it is not unusual for the whole army of Sinde to dismount and fight on foot. 
The Baloochees are reckoned good marksmen, but not susceptible of discipline. 
The pay of a common soldier in the field is five pice per day, including his pro- 
visions, during peace he receives an allowance of about one pound and a half of 
rice per diem. The Sindean cavalry are but indifferently mounted, and, although 
stouter, are not such good swordsmen as the natives of upper Hindostan. The 
infantry resemble the Persians and Arabs, and like most Hindostany soldiers are 
overloaded with arms ; besides a sword, shield, and dagger, the cavalry carry 
matchlocks. Although the produce of Sinde be at present equal to three times 
the consumption of its inhabitants, it is nevertheless badly cultivated and thinly 
peopled, and wholly unequal to the subsistence of any formidable force. An 
invading army might be conveniently opposed on the banks of the Indus, and 
by proper precautions reduced to extreme distress for want of provisions ; but it 
is not probable that any force of magnitude will ever select so barren and 
unpromising a route. 

After the death of Meer Futteh'Ali, his then surviving brothers divided the 
territorial possessions and revenues ; the oldest, Meer Gholaum Ali, receiving 
one half as the ostensible head of the government, and being bound to defiray the 
permanent, civil, and military expenses of the state. These charges, however, 
are inconsiderable, as during a cessation of external hostilities very few soldiers 
are retained. As is the practice in many other eastern principalities, the hoard- 
ing of treasure is a favourite maxim of state policy, the amount of specie deposited 
in different forts throughout the country is consequently supposed to be very 
great, a very small proportion of what is received being ever permitted again 
to enter into circulation. 

The districts subject to the authority of Meer Sohrab are situated in the 
north-eastem quarter of Sinde, and yield a revenue of about five lacks and a half 

repc^ per annum. His government is described as milder, and more 



THE PROVINCE 


566 


{SIKD*. 


favourable to agriculture and commerce than that of the principal Ameers. His 
troops are computed at 4 or 5000 men. The authority of Meet Thara extends 
over the districts on the eastern bank of the Indus ; his revenue does not exceed 
lacks of rupees, but his country is improving, and his troops amount to 6000 
men. He was some years ago defeated and taken prisoner by Meer Gholaum 
Ali, buf at the solicitation of the other Ameers released, and his territories 
restored. 

. INie customs and revenues of Sinde are farmed to private persons, and the 
Ampers, with the view of creating competition, generally remove the farmers 
annually, and they having consequently no interest in the improvement of the 
country, direct their attention to the realizing the greatest possible profit within 
the period of their contract. In effecting this object they are guilty of many 
extortions, of which the Ameers subsequently avail themselves, as a pretext for 
confiscating whatever property they may have accumulated. 

The men of Sinde are generally of a middle size, well made, and more robust 
than the more southern natives of India. Their complexions are a dark tawny, 
with black eyes and eyebrows, and uncommonly good teeth. Like the Seiks, 
they allow their hair to grow, and wear such large turbans, that some of them 
contain 80 yards of muslin. The Mahommedans are almost all Soonees, smd 
mostly of the sect of Haneefee, but they have few religious prejudices. The 
females are particularly distinguished for beauty of face, and symmetry of person, 
yet they are not doomed to very strict seclusion, and the dancing girls of Sinde 
in figure, manners, and appearance, greatly excel those of Upper Hindostan. 
When the missionaries examined a translation of the Lord’s prayer into the 
northern Sindee language, they found that of 32 words of the latter, 24 agreed 
with the Bengalese and Hindostany specimen; and of the southern Sindee 
(which differs m termination from the northern in almost every instance) 24 
words were found radically the same as in the Bengalese and Hindostany 


The whole of this territory swarms with mendicants in a state of the utmost 
apparent misery ; but here also, as in other Mahommedan countries, a class of 
sturdy beggars are seen, pretending to be Seids, or descendants of the prophet, 
and demanding charity in the most peremptory and arrogant manner. These' 
charitable objects frequently go about in parties of seven or eight, soliciting alms 
on horseback, well dressed, armed, and mounted, with a green flag carried 
befmre them, and when their demands are’ not complied with dwy beetow abusive 
language on the obdurate with the most liberal profusion. 

The province of Sinde was the first conquest in Hindostan effected Ihf 
Mahommedans, which long preceded their invasions by the route of Atleoh 



OF MOOLTAN. 


8IKX>£.] 



Lahore. The Khalif Ali sent a general who effected sonxe conquests on the 
borders of Sinde. Moavyeh sent twice his General Amir, or Hamir, but after 
long and bloody contests he was forced to desist. Under the Khalif Walid, 
the conquest was at last effected by Mahommed Cossim in the year of the |!ijera 
99 ; but on account of the distance, sterility, and natural strength of the country> 
it did not long remain attached to the Caliphat of Bagdad. Subsequent to thi«i 
there appears to have existed two contemporaneous authorities in Sinde ; the 
one a Rajpoot family, and the other a Mahommedan ; the latter probably con- 
verted from the Hindoo faith, both of which assumed the title of Jam. The 
Lomra, a Rajpoot race, are said to have»retained possession for the long period 
of 500 years, after which it was successively occupied by different chiefs ; one 
of whom, Mirza Eesau, of the Turkaiiny tribe, having called in the Portugueze 
to his assistance against the Soubahdar of Mooltan, they plundered the city 
of Tatta, which was then the seat of government. 

Sinde remained with theTurkannees until the reign of Acber, who dispatched 
an army by the way of Sewustan, which succeeded in effecting its conquest, 
and from that era it became tributary to the Delhi emperors, who conducted the 
government through the medium of Soubahdars resident at Mooltan and Tatta. 
About A. D. 1737, during the alarm excited by the threatened invasion of 
Hindustan by Nadir Shah, Mahommed Abassi Caloree, of Sewee, availed himself 
of the apprehensions of the Soubahdar of Sinde, and influenced him to consign 
the government to his hands for three lacks of rupees, which he promised him, 
but never paid. In 1739, Nadir Shah defeated the Calorie chiefs, and obliged 
them to take refuge in Amercote, on the borders of the desert ; but he after- 
wards permitted them to resume the government as tributaries. 

Mahommed Abassi Caloree (or Calhora) died in 1771, and was succeeded by 
other princes of the same family until 1779, when a tribe of Balooch origin, 
named the Talpoories, headed by some of the present Ameers, and their eldest 
brother Futteh Ali Khan, rebelled against the Calorie Nabob, and expelled 
him from the country. The surviving representatives of the Calories had 
recourse to Timour Shah of Cabul, who, under pretence of reinstating them, 
commenced a war against the Talpoory Ameers, but desisted for an annual 
tribute of 12 lacks of rupees, which was regularly paid until the death of that 
aovereagn in 1792. On this event it was reduced to seven lacks of rupees, and 
subsequmitly, during the civil wars of his successors, withheld altogether. The 
Ameers of Sinde being thus relieved from all fears on the side of Cabul, began 
to encroach on their neighbours, wrested Corachie fii>m the chief of Baloo- 
elustan^ and extended their frontiers on the side of Shekarpoor and Ajmeer. 

Afrer the, decease of Meer Futteh Ali, the then surviving brothers divided 



THE PROVINCE 


568 


[ 81 KD£. 


the revenue into four shares ; two of which were assigned to the eldest, Gholaum 
All, and one to each of his brothers. At the same period ^he present remark- 
able constitution of Sinde was framed,' by the construction of which the three 
Ameers ’ruled -conjointly, with succession for their sons to the junior rank. In 
accordance with this system, on the death of Meer Gholaum AU, who was 
killed while hunting in 1812, by the charge of a buck, his two brothers each 
ascended a step, Vhile his son took the lowest seat in the triumvirate, the 
whole being arranged without the slightest tumult or bloodshed. A small 
portion of the province still remains in the hands of Meer Thara, a connexion 
or dependant of the Calories, who formerly ruled the country until superseded 
by the Talpoories. 

The neighbouring chiefs with whom the Ameers maintain a political inter- 
course are, the Raja of Joudpoor (from whom in 1813, they captured the fortress 
of Amercote); the Nabob of Bahawulpoor; Mahmood Khan, the chief of 
Baloochistan ; the Row of Cutch ; and Meer Khan Lais, chief of the petty 
state of Soonneany in Mekran. The territories of the last mentioned prince, 
who is tributary to Baloochistan, and inimical to Sinde, occupy the sea coast 
to the west of Corachie. In 1809, an envoy from Jeswunt Row Holcar arrived 
at Kitee, the residence of Meer Thara, for the purpose of proposing an union 
between his master, the French, and the sovereigns of Persia, against the British, 
but the proposal was not favourably received. 

The revenues of Sinde, during the Calorie dynasty, were estimated at 80 lacks 
of rupees per annum, but in 1809 were said to be reduced to about 43 lacks, 
yet in 1813 had again risen to 61 lacks, from which ought to be deducted the 
Cabul tribute of 12 lacks per annum, which with its immense arrear of one 
crore and a half (£1,500,000) is always impending over the Ameers. The 
natural resources of the territory are considerable, and under an improved 
system of government, would render its chiefs extremely formidable to their 
neighbours to the north and west; but tUs province, although within the limits 
of Hindostan, is so detached from the main body by the great sandy desert, that 
it takes no part in its politics. 

The resemblance of this country to Egypt has often been remarked. A 
smooth fertile plain bounded on the one side by mountains, and on the other by 
a desert ; divided by a large river, which forms a sort of Delta as it approaches 
the sea, and annually inundates the fdnd in the vicinity of its banks. Even in 
political circumstances they have an accidental resemblance, beii^ both tyran- 
nieed over by foreign and barbarous tribes, yielding a reluctant obedtence 10 a 
distent and dk^fdied monarchy. Here, however, the comparisoa endSi as 
is placed in the midst of countries destitute of industry, diferNg Bttie bem 



iiiHD*.] OP MOOLTAN. 569 

otiier ill tlid^ wa&to and productions, sad witii no conveniences for external 
trod^ irlula the geographical situation of Egypt, betwixt India and the great 
SnropMA nuurket, point it out as an emporium of commerce. But no change for 
the better can be expected in either, while the countries continue under the sway 
of tiieir {Hresent ignorant and rapacious rulers. — (Smith, Maxfidd, Pottingar, 
JS^hmtone, Brnmll, Use. S^c. 8^c.) 

HvaxaABAD.-~-The capital of the modem principality of Sinde. Lat. 25“ 
22' N. l(mg. 88® 41' E. The fortress stands on a rocky hill, the base of which, 
distant about 1000 paces, is washed by a branch of the Indus named the Fuldee. 
The nearest point of the main channel of the Indus bears from the fort W. by S. 

3 miles. It is of an irregular pentagonaf figure, built to suit the shape of the 
mass of rock on which it stands, defended by round towers, and a high brick 
wall perforated with loop-holes. In many places the sides of the hill are so 
steep, that the ascent to the fortress would be difficult even were it breached 
to the foundation. The weakest part of the fort is towards the south-'east, 
opposite a break in the rock from the Fulalee. The northern side of the fort 
has a dry ditch cut in the rock, but not above 12 feet broad. The walls have 
loop-holes for matchlocks, but the artillery is placed so high as to be useless 
against an enemy very near the fort. Its natural situation is strong, and the 
whole is capable of effectually resisting every native attack, but would present 
a feeble opposition to European assailants. On all these walls there were, in 
1809, about 70 jueces of artillery mounted, but except eight or ten they were 
all in a very bad condition. 

There are several handsome mosques within the fort, but no buildings worth 
notice in its vicinity, except Gholaum Shah’s (the founder’s) tomb, on a hill to the 
south of the fort. The shops in the bazar are kept well supplied, and are mostly 
tmwnted by Hindoo Banyans. Although no encourt^ment is given to industry 
by the Ameers, the artisans are numerous and skilful, particularly the armourers, 
wbp ut noted for the excellence of their workmanship, and the artificers who 
mnbroider on leatiier. 

The grand branch of the Indus does not approach Hyderabad nearer than 
tiiroe mUoi. Boats laden with heavy goods, to avoid the inconvenience of land 
carriage, entmr the Fulalee branch of the Indus, about 13 miles to the northward 
eff Hyderabad, on the east side of the main river. The route from Tatta up the 
FUhdie to Hyderabad is the longest, u it winds far to the eastward, and then 
curves to the north-west, mnning past the hill on which Hyderabad stands, 
forinu^ an island named Gunga. The Fulalee, in the month of August, is here 
fiom two and a half to three fatiioms in depth. 

VOL, I. 4 D 



THE PROVINCE 


570 


[binds. 


The Boil in the vicinity is of a light sandy colour, and very fitful vHieil 
properly cultivated. Two miles and a half to the southward of Hyderabad is s 
table land extending about two miles ; and 12 miles to the southward is a rai^ 
of rocky hills, part of which approaches the Fulalee, and is called the Gungah 
hills. Three miles west by south is a village on the eastern bank of die Indus* 
from which boats are continually crossing with passengers to Cotrie on the 
opposite side, which is on the route from Tatta to Hyderabad. This city is the 
residence of the Ameers, or present sovereigns of Sinde, yet ‘the revenue 
collected only amounts to the trifling sum of 60,000 rupees per annum, and th^ 
population to about 16,000. There is, however, no standing army kept 
Hyderabad, each Ameer retaining a few troops which serve in time of peace 
garrison the fort . — ( Mojjield, Smith, Kinneir, Pottingcr, ^c.) 

Goonee River. — ^This small river appears to be a branch of the great Indus, \ 
which diverges during the rains from die main trunk, a short distance to die 
south of Hyderabad, from whence it flows in a southerly direction to Luckput 
Bunder, when its further navigation is interrupted by a mound which has been 
erected to restrain its waters, and to the base of which the salt water of the 
ocean ascends, through its former channel, here named the Loonee, or saline. 
It passes in its progress south through part of the great salt morass, named the 
Runn, and is navigable for boats in the months of July and August. 

Nooai. — ^A village in the province of Sinde, situated on the banks of the 
Fulalee, 15 miles below Hyderabad. Lat. 25° 8' N. 

Mahommed Khan’s Taunda. — A town in the province of Sinde, subject to 
the Ameers, situated on the Goonee, 30 miles S. E. from Hyderabad. Lat. 25** 
3' N. loi^ 69° 3' £. This is a large and flourishing place, the residence of 
Meer Sultan Ali, a relation of the reigning Ameers, who holds several fine 
districts, and whose capital is the grand rendezvous of the northern merchants* 
who annually carry horses to the south. In 1813, his revenues amounted to 
between four and five lacks of rupees per annum, and his country was in a state 
of progressive improvement. The country from Hyderabad is capable of being 
ren^red very productive, but where under the immediate superintendanoe 
the Ameers it is nearly waste.— f Ft4tinger, 

Chandookee. — A district subject to the Ameers of Sinde, situated about 
the 27th degree of north latitude, and during the floods completely insidi^ 
by the Indus* the Anil, and the tSbrkhanu rivers, forming an islimd of triangular 
shape, which is reckoned the most productive in the province, and in 1813. was 
said to yidd a revenue of eight lacks of rupees. 

Laekhanu. — A. town in the Chandookee district* 33 mfl<M S. S. W. fiMm 




siirpE.] OF MOOLTAN. 571 

SlUduurpoor. Lat 26“ 56' N. long. 68® 44' E. The Ameers of Sinde here levy 
toJls on merclumts entering their dominions from the north-west, and maintft ^ T i 
a.garmon to restrain the Baloochees of Catch Gundava.— {'Pofliwger, ^c.J 

SxHWAUN. — A town and district in the province of Sinde, intersected by 
the Indus, and situated between the 26th and 27 th degrees of north latitude. 
The soil is sandy, and the land but little cultivated, although watered by one of 
the largest rivers in the world. The town of Sehwaun stands on the west 
of the Indus, in lat. 26° 11' N. long. 68“ 7' E. about 65 miles N. N. W. from 
Hyderabad, the capital of Sinde, near the confluence of an Afghanistan river 
named the Arul and the Indus, which here in the rainy season form a jeel, or 
shallow lake. 

Chauker. — A large district in the province of Sinde, intersected by the 
Indus, and situated between the 25th and 26th degrees of north latitude. It 
forms part of the dominions of the Ameers of Sinde, but respecting the condition 
of its interior nothing is known, except that its soil is sandy and indifferently 
cultivated. The chief town is named Haulla. 

Nooshuhra. — A town in the province of Sinde, 50 miles N. by W. from 
Hyderabad. Lat. 26“ 4' N. long. 68“ 33' E. 

Aracote. — According to native reports, a few days journey to the west of 
Hyderabad there is a pagoda, dedicated to the goddess Bhavani, at a place 
named Aracote. It is described as being situated in the centre of seven ranges 
of hills, which the multitude of pilgrims who repair to it consider as too sacred 
for human steps, and the resort of aerial beings. — (MtuifaM, S^c,) 

Nusserpoor. — A town and district in the province of Sinde, situated to the 
west of Hyderabad, the modem capital of that country. On the west it is 
bounded by the Indus, and during the wet season it is irrigated by many small 
currents branching off from the main trunk, some of which afterwards rejoin the 
parent stream, but a great proportion are drawn off by the natives for the pur- 
poses of husbandry, or are absorbed by the arid soil. When the periodical 
rains are over, and the dry season returns, these temporary currents wholly 
disappear. Nusserpoor, the chief town, stands about 20 miles N. £. from 
Hyderabad, in lat. 25“ 30' N. long. 68“ 56' E. By Abul Fazel, in 1582, this 
distiict is described as follows : “ Gircar Nusserpoor, containing seven mahals, 
revenue 7,634,600 duns.” 

Ketee.-— T his is the principal town belonging to Meer Thara, one of the 
Ameers of Sinde, but its position has not been satisfrictorily ascertsuned. It 
is said be larger than Corachie, and situated on an island formed by the 

indes. 


4 ]>2 



572 


THE PROVINCE 


TATTA. 

A large district in the province of Mooltan, situated between the 84th and 
25th degrees of north latitude. To the north it is bounded by f^inde Proper; 
on the south by the sea ; on the west it has the sea and Baloochistan ; and on 
the east in modem times the main branch of the river Indus. That its ancient 
dimensions and political importance were of much greater magnitude will appear 
from the following description drawn up by Abul Fazel in 1582. 

“ Formerly circar Tatta was an independent territory, but now it forms pi^ 
of tile empire. The length from B»:kar to Cutch and Mekran is 257 com, 
and the breadth from the town of Budeyan to Bunder Lahry measures 100 com, 
and again from Chunder of Backar to Bicanere is 60 coss. On the east lies 
Gttjerat, on the north Backar and Sewee, on the south the sea, and on the west 
Cutch (Gundava) and Mekran. Alore is now called Tatta and Debiel. Here 
the northern mountains form several branches, one of which runs to Candahar. 
Another branch commences on the sea coast, goes to the town of Koubhar, 
where it is called Ramgur, and from thence proceeds to Sewistan, where it is 
called Lucky. Here are a considerable tribe of Baloochees, called Kulmany. 
They are 20,000 families, and can raise 10,000 choice cavalry. Camels are bred 
here. Another chain of mountains runs from Sehwaun to Sewee, where it is 
called Khutter. Here dwell a tribe named Nomurdy. 

In Tatta the winter is so moderate that there is no occasion for furs, and in 
summer, excepting in Sewistan, the heat is not excessive. The inhabitants 
travel chiefly by water, and possess not less than 40,000 boats. Here are iron 
mines and salt pits. Rice is foe and in abundance. At the distance of 12 miles 
from Tatta is a quarry of yellow stone, which is cut to any size, and used for 
building. The food of the inhabitants is chiefly fish and rice. They dry fish in 
the sun, and also extract oil from them. 

“ Tatta is now (1582) the fourth circar to Mooltan. From the northern 
borders of Tatta to Utch is a range of mountains of hard black stones, inhabited 
by various tribes of Baloochees, and on the south from Utch to Gojmt are 
sandy moimtains, the residence of the Ashambetty and other tribes. The 
country, from Backar to Nusserpoor and Amercote, b peopled by the Sowra and 
Jareecheh (Jahraja) and other ti&es. Circar Tatta cohtains 18 mfoals ; revenue 
25,999,991 dams. Tatta became subject to the Mahommedans in ^ year of 
Hijera 99 (A. D. 721), during the cafiphat of Walid." 

Since Abul Fazel wrote, this district has experienced a gradual deea^, wlh^ 
has of bte years been so accdlerated, tirat the countiy is in danger of retwniag 



TATTA.] OF MOOLTAN. 573 

to ft state of nature. Although similar in many of dieir gec^^phical features, 
tile Delta of the Indus presents in other respects a remarkable contrast to that of 
the Ganges. On the west from the sea coast to the city of Tatta, scarcely any 
thing is to be seen but an arid sandy country, covered in different places with 
tita milk bush, and other shrubs peculiar to sterile lands, almost destitute of 
frerfi water, which must be procured from an immense depth under ground. 
Here and there low ranges of bare scraggy hills are seen, but scarcely a vestige 
of cultivation or population for many miles from the sea. 

Between Tatta and Corachie, the modem sea-port of Sinde, are many tombs 
and ruins, which would indicate a former state of prosperity, very different from 
its prment miserable condition. The ‘walls and other remains of the ancient 
city of Bambarah are still discernible, but now covered with baubul and other 
wild shrubs, and inhabited only by a few Indian ascetics. Between Tatta and 
Corachie, there is an inland lake of considerable extent and navigable for small 
boats, but the water is brackish. It is probably the forsaken channel of some 
very ancient branch of the Indus, during the freshes of which, when the floods 
are at the highest, the low country is inundated. As the city of Tatta is ap- 
proached from the sea, the soil and aspect of the country improve ; but still 
vrithout tre^s and almost destitute of inhabitants. Camels are bred in this part 
of the district, the tender parts of the brushwood serving them for forage. 
From Sinde to Goa, the natives of India use the word Kaunta (a fork) to signify 
also borders on the sea coast, and know the Delta of the Indus under the name 
of Sindhu Kaunta, which approaches nearly to the term preserved in the Latin 
maps, of Canthi Sindi. 

For about 40 yeua past, Tatta has been under the government of the Ameers 
of Sinde, and subjected to every species of extortion and oppression. In 1809, 
the city and district of Tatta were said to yield a revenue of 145,000 rupees 
per annum ; the district of Sunkra 80,000; the sea-port of Corachie 110,000; 
and Dharaja 80,000. The district of Kahralee is asserted to have produced a 
revenue of six lacks of rupees during the government of the Calorie dynasty, 
which is now reduced to lW,00b rupees. The land situated between the salt 
and fresh water branches of the river is said to yield 91,000 rupees per annum. 
The whole district contains only one town, which is Tatta. 

This quarter of Hindostan was invaded by the Mahommedans at a very early 
pcaiod after the promulgation of that religion. The Caliph Omar dispatched 
H<^;haiieh Abul Aas, who, embarking at Bahrein by sea, attacked the western 
paita of the Delta of the Indus ; but meeting with unexpected resistance, he 
was defeated mad lost his life. As Omar died in. A. D. 641, this expedition 
nmst have bew undertaken about 639, or 640. Otiunan, his successor, at- 



.574 THE PROVINCE [tacta. 

empted an invasion by land, but having sent peoplh to purvey the roads, he 
was deterred by their reports. It does not appear to have been actually aub* 
dued by the Emperor Acber until 1590, although long prior to that period, 
included in the list of provinces subjected to his government. Since the fall of 
the Mogul empire, it has followed the destiny of Sinde, and still continues under 
the dominion of its semi-barbarous Ameers . — ( Abul Fazel, Smith, Miur^ekl, 
Welford, Drummond, ^x.J 

Tatta (TtiUah ). — The capital of tlie above district, situated tm the banks 
the Indus, about 130 miles from the sea, by the course of the river. Lat. 24* 44' 

N. long. 68° 17' E. This town stands in a valley formed by a ran^ of low i 
rocky hills, which, during the freshes. of the river, is inundated; but beiaig 1 
placed on an eminence, apparently formed by ancient ruins, during the height of \ 
the floods, it has the appearance of an island. The streets are very narrow and \ 
dirty, but the houses, although irregularly built of mud, chopped straw, and \ 
wood, are superior to the low huts commonly seen in native towns. The better 
sort of houses are built of brick and lime. The old English factory, purchased 
by the Company in 1751, still remains, and may be reckoned the best house, 
not only in Tatta but in the whole province of Sinde. All the rooms of this 
house have ventilators, resembling the funnels of chimnies, which communicate 
with the roof, and are intended to promote a circulation of air during the hot 
winds, when all the windows are shut to exclude the dust. To the southward 
of the factory within the town, are the remains of an old fort, which must have 
been a strong position against assailants ignorant of artillery tactics. At present 
there is no fort, nor is there any military force stationed in the town, which is 
governed by a nabob, or deputy, from the Ameers of Sinde. 

Tatta was originally defended by a strong brick wall, with round towers, but 
now these are a heap of ruins, and the mosques and pagodas that remain exhibit 
symptoms of rapid decay. The circumference of the town is fiom four to five 
miles, and the number of inhabitants about 15,000. It was once famous for its 
commerce and cloth manufactories, besides an extensive trade in rice, wheat, 
hides, &c. but all these are greatly diminished. The chief exports are ghee, 
gugal or b’dellium, pot-ash, oil, raisins, saltpetre, aniseed, shaikun, musk, 
chintzes, shawls from Shekarpoor, carpets, and a variety of drugs. The imports 
are coco nuts, pepper, cardamoms, betel nut, nutmegs, cinnamon, silk, raw and 
manufactured, cocUneal, broad clothr.boglipores, kincobs, purpets, quidtrilver, 
tin, iron, steel, copper, lead, black wood, sandal wood, and sandri wood oil. 
The only manufactures now carried on at Tatta, are a few white clotbsaiid 
cdo red lomigees ; and the shops exlubit a melandbdy peture of pofU^ iM 



tatta.3 of MOOLTAN. 575 

Hie Indus is in general shoal, opposite to Tatta; on which account boats 
trading to that city come- to off a small* village named Begurah, distant five 
miles south by east, where the deepest water is four fathoms, but for the most 
part only two, and the river about one mile in breadth. The strength of the 
current is here broken by the small island of Begurah, which is 200 yards from 
the western bank of the river. The boats used on the Indus are flat bottomed, 
square head and stem, low forward, high abaft, and drawing only a few inches 
of water. Oars are seldom used, the boats being usually pushed along with 
poles ; and when the wind is fair, recourse is had to sails. Their form is broad 
and very commodious for the purpose of travelling. From Tatta to Hyderabad 
there are four routes, two by land and two by water ; the shortest of which 
may be estimated at 53 miles. At this place the monsoon prevails with consi- 
derable violence, between May and October, attended with hard squalls of 
thunder, lightning, wind, and rain. 

The country around Tatta is a rich soil, watered by conduits from the Indus, 
and partly overflowed during the freshes, but susceptible of the highest cultiva- 
tion. On the hill of Muckalee, a mile to the west of Tatta, is an amazing 
number of graves and mausoleums, the habitations of the dead greatly .exceed- 
ing in number those of the living. The tomb of Mirza Eesau is uncommonly 
magnificent, and well executed, and is supposed to have been erected about 
A. D. 1622. It consists of a large square stone building, two stories high, 
having a great dome, supported by numerous pillars, which, as well as the body 
of the building, are covered with sentences extracted from the Koran. Some 
of the inscriptions on the other tombs appear fresh and quite legible, although 
engraved 160 years ago. On the banks of the - Indus, seven miles above Tatta, 
is another hill, covered with white mosques and tombs of Mahommedans, some 
of the latter of considerable size. Near to one of the smallest, which is held in 
great veneration both by Mahommedans and Hindoos, is a large bone stuck 
upright in the earth, about 18 feet long, one thick, and two broad, which the 
natives assert was procured from a fish. The hill, ox. which these graves are 
fdaced, if fortified, would command the passage of river. 

Dr. Robertson is of opinion, that Tatta' is the Pattala of the anaiente ; but 
the low and alluvial districts, of Sinde have undergone, even recently, such 
duoigw, that nothing positive can be affirmed on this head. The name may 
pWHiUily have n^erred to the city of Brahminabad, now in ruins, but which 
tppeaif to have been a metropolis in the remote ages of Hindoo antiquity, and 
kf by Abtil Basel, described as follows : ** The ancient capital was Brahminabad, 
uMlk waa a wej populous city. The fort had 1400 bastions, a tenab 



576 THE PROVINCE [tawa 

distant from each other, and to the present day there are considerate vestiges 
of this fortification.” 

Mention is made of Tatta, in history, so early as 92 of the Hijera, or A. D. 
677. The modem city is said to have been founded by Jam Mundel, the 14th 
of the Someah dynasty, A. D. 1485. It was taken and plundered by the Por> 
tugueze in 1555, but continued in the 14th century an extensive and populous 
city, of great commerce, and possessing manufactures of silk, Caramania wool, 
and cotton ; it was also famous for its cabinet ware. Even so late as 1742, 
when visited by Nadir Shah, it was a place of considerable trade and popida- 
tion ; but it has since declined to its present state of desolation. It continued,! 
however, the capital of the province, until the present rulers built the fortress^ 
of Hyderabad, and transferred thither the seat of government ; since which its 
population has decreased with such rapidity, that at present more than two- 
thirds of the houses are uninhabited. Most of the Sindean cloths exported to 
Hindostan, Persia, and Khorasan, are still manufactured here ; the miserable 
remains of its once flourishing commerce. 

Travelling distance from Bombay, 741 miles ; from Calcutta, 1602 miles. — 
(Smith, Maxfield, Pottinger, Remell, ^r. ^'C.) 

Bambarah. — The ruins of a city in the Tatta district, situated to the west of 
the city of Tatta, and conjectured to be those of an ancient city named Brah- 
minabad, by Persian authors, who report it as having been the capital of a 
flourishing Hindoo kingdom, in the 10th century. They also name it Mahaura, 
and Manhawar. The site of Bambarah was on a hill now covered with trees 
and bushes, and exhibiting in the neighbourhood many tombs of Sindean war- 
riors, who fell here in a battle between Gholaum Shah and Meet AU. — 
( Maxfield, dgc. ^'c,) 

CoRACHiE. This is the modem sea-port of Tatta and Sindc, and may be 
noticed along with them, although it does not, geographically, belong to either, 
being a recent usurpation of the Ameers. It stands in lat. 24* 51' N. long. 
67* 16' E. 57 miles from the city of Tatte, and £. by S. from Cape Monze. 

Mu&ch akd Kalaupt.— Asmall building for the aocommodatioii of travellers 
in, the province of Sinde, district of Tatta, 10 miles east firom Corachie. Lat, 
24* 50 N. long. 67* 27' £. The surrounding country is a hard sandy soil, 
bounded by rocky hills to the north^ and covered with clusters d the milk hush, 
a shrub called lye by the Sindees, arid a small prickly shrub ; the whole abound* 
big with hares, jackals, and partridges. Four mUes mi this side of C?ofed|je; 
there is a range of scraggy sterile hills, cm the top of which are several tmbs, 
but not a tree is to be semi. At this place there are some wells of good wttmr 



KEAHNss.] OF MOOLTAN. 577 

Five mites fiirther on, approaching Tatta there is a choultry, erected by Hajee 
Omar, and near to it a well of excellent water, 140 feet deep, dug to supply trayel- 
lers; an act of charity duly estimated in this parched and sultry region. The 
country around this choultry is so hard, and the water so remote from the surfece, 
tiiat the labourers must for a long time have been supplied with water brought 
from a distance, before they could reach that which they were in search of. — 
(Smith, MaxfieM, ^'c.) 

Hadjee Omaukalaudv. — A place of refreshment in the Tatta district, 15 
nules £. of Corachie, on the road to the city of Tatta. About a mile to the 
S, W. of this place the soil is a fine loam^ and overflowed during the freshes by 
the Indus. To the north there is a fine well about 130 feet deep, with steps to 
go down. From hence to the Pepel choultry, distant eight miles, the road is bad, 
broken ground with a loose sandy soil. 

Gahrah. — ^T his small town is situated in lat. 24“ 46' N. long. 67“ 56' E. about 
24 miles W, from the city of Tatta. It stands on the brink of a salt water creek 
ccunmunicating with the sea, and navigable for small boats ; but the trade is 
insignificant, and the poverty of the inhabitants extreme. There are a few wells 
near the town, but the water is neither good nor plentiful. The surrounding 
country consists of a light salt sand, which in a fresh breeze rises in such clouds 
as almost to blind man and beast. A strong glare is also reflected durmg the 
day, and the wind is dry and excessively parching. A few lye shrubs are 
scattered over this tract. Two miles £. N. £. from Gahrah the country improves, 
and there is a plain, three miles in extent, and capable of cultivation, but re- 
maining in a state of nature. — ( Mturfidd, ^c.) 

Guoah. — k town, containing 600 inhabitants, situated about ten miles west 
from the city of Tatta. Lat. 24“ 45' N. long. 68“ T £. 

Hblai. — k village near the Indus in the province of Sinde, on the road from 
Tatta to Hyderabad. Lat. 24* 52' N. long. .68“ 27' £. About a mile to the 
west of Hdai are two remarkable hills, on which are situated several buildings. 
The land adjacent is cultivated and has a fertile appearance. At this place the 
Indus is thi^fourths of a mile wide, and has feom four to five fathoms water 

WussA. — ^A town in the province of Sinde, situated on the west bank of the 
Indus, 17 miles N. N. £. from Tatta. Lat. 24“ 55' N. long. 68“ 25' £. 

Msavkse. — k fishing villt^ in the province of Sinde, situated about four 
mdu* east fitom Tatta. Lat. 24“ 44' N. long. 68* 21' E. Opposite to this place 
due Indos is about a mile wide, and has three fathoms water. Three miles east 
of thb ptece is another village where the Indus is about a mile and a <|uarter 
broad, and continues so for about two miles, alter which it becmnes imnower, 
wt exceeding three-fourths of a mile wide, with four or five fethoms wat«r. 

^ * 



578 THE PROVINCE [cdddak. 

SovoA. — This town is situated on the road from Tatta to Hyderabad* a 
short distance from the banks of the Indus. Lat. 24** 68' N. long. 68^ 27^ E. 
The banks of the river are here low and swampy, and the depth of water 
about four fathoms. One mile N. N. £. from Sonda the Cooperah ^s approach 
the western bank of the Indus, which winds with a serpentine course, and washes 
their bases for about two miles in extent . — ( Maajitldt S^c.) 

J UK AH. — ^This small town is situated on the brow of a hill, one third of a mile 
from the Indus, on the road from Tatta to Hyderabad. Lat. 26° N. Opposite 
to Jukah the breadth of the river is two-thirds of a mile, with five fathoms water. 

Majuii. — By this name is distinguished that large portion of the Tatta pro- 
vince lying to the east of the main trunk of the Indus, and bounded on the east 
by the Goonee branch of the Indus, continued under various names through the 
great salt- morass, named the Runn, to the sea ; and bounded on the south-east 
by Cutch. Respecting the interior of this geographical division, scarcely any 
thing is known, the only portion of it explored being that which lies contiguous 
to the banks of the Goonee from Hyderabad to Alibunder, along which many 
small vills^es are scattered with considerable appearances of cultivation and 
population. The surface is level, and the soil has a strong tendency to the 
saline, until at the south corner it degenerates into a salt morass. 

Dundah. — A large village in the province of Sinde, situated on the S. W. 
bank of the Goonee river. Lat. 24° 68' N. long. 68° 68' E. This place stands 
on the route from Hyderabad, the capital of Sinde, to Mandavie on the gulph of 
Cutch, by the river Goonee, which is here one fathom and a half deep, and about 
70 yards broad, during the rains. Twelve miles further south it contracts to the 
breadth of 20 yards, with two fathoms depth. The village is inhabited by a 
number of weavers, and the surrounding country is well cultivated. — (M(us 
field, 8sc.) 

Beechipoor. — ^A village in the province of Sinde, on the west banks of die 
Goonee, on the road from Hyderabad to Mandavie in Cutch. Lat 24** 35' N. 
long. 69° 5' E. 

KHrRFooR. — A. town in die province of Sinde, the residence of Meer Sohrab, 
one of the Ameers, or princes, cH that extensive country. Lat. 24* 66' N. long. 
69° 27' E. 112 miles E. S. E. from Hyderabad. Khyrpoor is a place of some 
trade and noted for the dying of cloth. 

CuDDAN.— A town subject to the ^meers of Sinde, situated on the route firom 
Hyderabad, di^ capital, to Luckput Sunder, end afterwards to Mandavie ht the 
gul^ of Cutch. Lat. 24° 25' N. long. 09° 2' £. Betwixt this place and Lnck- 
put Bunder is a pUun, over whibh, in the dry season, there is a good road, jhpt 
swanspy during the rains. The country between MeerpotHr and this h b«d 



cttAMKiCAvir.] OF MOOLTAN. 579 

little cultivated, beiiig low manhy ground oovered with bushes of the lye, and the 
stream of the Goonee is so narrow and shoal, that it is not navigable further 
acmth for boats of any description. The town of Cuddan b small, and contains 
fow in^bitants. — ( ^c.) 

Aubvnder.— A tovm belonging to the Sinde Ameers, 63 miles E. by S. from 
the city of Tatta. Lat. 24® 24' N. long. 69® 13' E. At this place a small branch 
of tiie Goonee river b stopped by a mound of earth, which separates it from the 
Ludcput Bunder river. A great many camels may be procured here for the con- 
veyance of baggage. — ( Maxfidd, (§>c. j 

Buboorara. — A village in the province of Sinde, situated on the road from 
Hyderabad to Luckput Bunder, and abbut 24 miles N. from Luckput Bunder. 
Lat. 24" 10' N. long. 69® 2' E. This place stands on the edge of the Runn, and 
during the dry season is abandoned by the inhabitants. 

SuKKRA. — A dbtrict in the Sinde province, situated at its south-western 
extremity, where it b separated by the Goonee river, here named the Loonee or 
saline, from the province of Cutch. It is thinly inhabited and exhibits little 
cultivation, the soil consisting eitlier of a barren sand, or salt morass, in conse- 
quence of which it contains no towns or even villages of note. 

CHALCHKAUN. 

The quarter of Hindostan in which this tract is situated, had until lately been 
so imperfectly explored, that the whole space comprehended under the above 
head was supposed to be an uninhabited sandy desert, and marked as such in 
the best maps. The recent extension however of the British frontier in Gujerat, 
has unsettled that opinion, it having been ascertained that the country, although 
of an arid and barren aspect, is not an absolute desert, and that although the 
soil be in general sandy and destitute of vegetation, yet it contains many culti- 
vated spots, and is interspersed with petty chiefships and stationary tribes, which 
were probably never even tributary to the Mogul or Patan empires. It appears, 
however, in the vague geography of Abul Fazel, to have been included in the 
large soubah or province of Mooltan and dbtrict of Tatta. To the north it is 
bminded by the province of Ajmeer, on the south it is separated from Cutch by 
a great salt morass named the Runn ; to the east it has the province of Gujerat ; 
aad to the west the territory of Sinde. It b situated principally between the 
!i4th and 25th degrees of north latitude. 

Ute.nmst powerful chiefs in this tract of country are the Baloochee Kosahs, 
whoaettl^ here about 35 years ago, and axe named Siryes, by the Aborigines 
of the €»imtry. They are a race of sanguinary thieves, who infest the wh<de of 
the Barictv dbtrict and extend their ravages into the JoudpooTtnmtories. They 

4c2 



580 THE PROVINCE [cHAi^aKAvir. 

are armed with swords, and in general well mounted. They move in numlNaa 
from 100 to 600 , which force is sufficient to overcome any ^t the country am 
collect at a short notice, and by some achievements of desperate valour they 
have inspired the natives with great terror. Their dress and manner resemlde 
those Of the Sindeans. They never cut their hair, but having let it gprow to a 
great length tie it in a knot on the top of their heads. There are 12,000 Baloo* 
chees scattered over Dhat, Parkur, and Neyer or that tract of land marked as 
desert in the old maps. They acknowledge no superior, and subsist by their horses 
and swords, entering into the service of'the different predatory chieftains. Being 
originally from Sinde, they retain a great affection for their native country, andj 
when one of them dies, his remains Are* conveyed for interment to that province.' 

The river, which comes from the Ajmeer province, and under different names 
such as the Mauroo and Loonee, runs through the Gurrah district, reaches 
the sea as a salt stream. It is represented as a very small current, quite dry in 
the cold season, with very low banks. The route across this tract from Rahdun* 
poor, according to native authorities is as follows ; 


To Bheelote .... 

3 coss. 

To the opposite bank 

16 coss. 

Sonete 

4 

Bheeranna . . 

2 

Monvarra .... 

4 

Weerawow . . 

8 

Sooeegong .... 

5 

Parkur . . . 

6 

The bank of the Runn 

2 


60 


The road is said to be good the whole of the way. The Runn in this quarter 
is represented to be a waste sandy tract, destitute of fresh water and vegetation ; 
and in the journey across it, there is no halting place for the whole 16 coss, on 
account of the total want of drinkable water. Brackish water is found on a 
tract about six coss in circumference, called Nurrah, situated on the Runn, and 
covered with jungle, which serves as an asylum for thieves. This space is 
uninhabited and uncultivated, the soil being the same as that of the Runn, yet 
the water, such as it is, is found very near the surface. Sooeegong stands near 
the Runn, which stretches from Arrisur in Wagur, and takes a sweep round 
Cutch. On crossing the Runn proceeding from Gujerat, the district of Paikur 
commences. 

From Parreenuggur 30 coss west, is situated Islamnagur, in which distance 
the traveller experiences much difficulty from the sand hills, heat, glare, aa4 
want of water, the wells being 8 'or 10 coss distant from each other and 
very deep; their appearance, however, indicates a very considerable duration. 
Between the two towns abovementioned there are no regular villages, but 4e 
Wandyat and Nyras arc to be met with in the vicinity of the weUs. These are 



CHALeHKAUK,] OF lilOOLTAN. 561 

two idiig^atory bordes, who pastore hocks of goats, cows, and camels as the 
aCttum suits, and are by caste Soda Rajpoots, but are Of late much mixed witli 
Sindean Mahonunedans. All over this sandy tract scattered jungle and coarse 
vegetation of different kinds supply the cattle with food. 

Bajmee and moong are the only grain produced, and these only in spots where 
the sandy soil is a little mixed with clay. Ghee, the produce of their numerous 
flocks, hods a ready market throughout the whole of Cutch, and principally at 
Luckput Bunder. The natives eat goat’s flesh, and have vegetables of different 
khidSi Water mdons of an excellent quality are produced throughout 
parched and arid region, and furnish a most grateful refreshment. 

Islamnagur is described by the natives as a strong fort situated in the desert, 
and destitute of water without the walls. It is upheld by the Sindean Chief 
Meer Gholaum Ali as a part of a chain of communication across the desert. 
Twelve coss in a north-west direction from Islamnagur is the fort of Meit ah, 
and 14 coss*further that of Kheirpoor, both resembling Islamnagur, and the last 
only 35 coss from Hyderabad the capital of Sinde. The country north from 
Parkur, towards Amercote, is called Dhat, and was originally subject to the 
Soda Raja of Amercote. According to the report of the natives, the dis- 
tance from 

Parkur to Weerawow N. W. is 7 coss. 


Rajora N 22 

Koanna N. W 8 

Guddra N. W 20 

Neelwa N 8 

Amercote N. W. 15 


80 

Between Weerawow and Rajora there is said to be one well, hills of sand and 
Jungle : at Koanna a well, and at Guddra a tank ; the latter the property of a 
Soda Rajpoot originally from Amercote. Between Koanna and Guddra there 
axe two or three wells ; and from Guddra to Neelwa, sand hills and one well. 
Neelwa belongs half to the Soda and half to the Rhatore Rajpoots. There are 
tiuee forts in this tract, Kudha, Bulliaree, and Meitu, which lie to the westward 
tile above route, and are garrisoned by Sindean detachments. This part of 
tha oowtry exhibits little or no cultivation, the inhabitants subsisting on the 
pwdaee of fheir numerous flocks of cattie and camels, which are purchased at a 
tow 1 ^^, and exported to Gujerat. 

Tie diattiet of Dhat includes a subdivinon named Raree Kawar, siiuaied 
(« the west border of Marwar, and inhalnted solely by Rhat<Me 



5m THE PROVINCE IfAfKCiv 

Rajpoots. The natives of Dhat are described as being papj fe a By w itn ed f 
possessing few houses, and armed with swords only. They axe in oomtequenM 
compelled to support the Sindean detachmmits, staticmed to preserve them firoiB 
the depredation of the Kosahs and other Sindean plundeime, who devastate the 
country . — ( Mamurdo, ^c. ^c.) 

Parkue.— A town and small district in the geographical division of the 
Mooltan province named Chalchkaun, situated on the borders of the great 
salt morass named the Runn. The town stands in lat. 24" 15' N. long. 70® 40' £. 
Proceeding from Gujerat after crossing the Runn, which takes a sweep round 
the north of Cutch, the Parkur district commences. Sinde begins about 30 
coss beyond Pareenuggur, in which, as also in Weerawow, the Sinde Ameers ^ 
had a party of 15 or 20 men, who levied taxes for their subsistence on the neigh* 
bouring zemindars. 

This country has been seldom visited by Europeans, but is described by the 
natives as of a sandy, rocky nature, indifferently supplied with water, and in 
many respects resembling Hallaur in Gujerat. Cultivation is carried on by 
means of water procured from wells and tanks. Cloths of various descriptions, 
and a few horses, are occasionally transported through this district from Sinde 
to Gujerat ; but on account of the insecurity the trade of all sorts is of little 
amount. The Parkur territory is said to contain from 30 to 40 villages ; the 
capital is Pareenuggur, commonly called Nuggur, and the residence of the 
Soda Rajpoots. 

Pareenuggur in its present state contains only 300 houses, chiefly inhabited 
by Soda Rajpoots, the ancient population having long abandoned it on account 
of its turbulence, and migrated for safety to Noanagur and other places. The 
town is not fortified ; the refuge of the inhabitants, when an enemy appears, 
being a neighbouring mountain, which is represented (but improbably) as rising 
to a great altitude. This mountain is named Callinjer, and according to the 
natives may be seen at a considerable distance. It is covered with jungle, and 
only accessible to those who are acquainted with its secret paths. The principal 
chieftain in the Parkur district is Poonjajee of Weerawow, whose capital is sur- 
roimded by a wedl, and contains about 600 inhabitants. His gpreat source of 
revenue is a celebrated idol which he possesses, named Goreecha, from its. having 
originally come from CJor Bangala, (probably Gour in Bengal). It is carved of 
white marble, rather more than a cubi^ in height, in a sitting posture, with hb 
right foot placed on his left knee, hb l^ds clasped, a precious stone cff some 
land fixad between hb eyebrows; and two others in the sockets of his eyes. 

At a remote period of hbtory, when Pareenuggur flourished, it was inhid>ited h3^ 
numerous Iwnds of Banyans or Shrawuks, (of the Jain religion,) vidMMe l«PD|les 



OF MOOLTAN. 


PARKVR.] 


583 


were femous Ibr tlieir elegance and sanctity, and resorted to by Shrawitks 
ftotti every (quarter, to pay their devotions at tiic shrines of Goreecha and 
Mondow Ray, who were considered as brothers. During the confusion and 
aqarchy that followed the Mahommedan invasions, Mandow Ray fell into the 
hands of a body of Purmar Rajpoots, who removed him from Parkur to Mqoter 
in Chalawar, where they built a magnificent temple for Mandow Ray, in which 
he atiU resides. Gbreecha had a harder fate^ for during die disorder he was 
seized on by a Rajpoot family, and concealed in the sand hills, which lie to the 
north-west of Parkur. Some years afterwards, when the influence of the Mahom- 
medans of Sinde had declined, and tho>Soda Rajpoots had gained the ascend- 
ance, Goreecha emerged from his concealment, and the news of his safety 
attracted Shrawuks from every region to pay their devotions to him ; for per- 
mission to do which, the possessor demanded a heavy fine, which the Banyans 
consented to pay. Subsequent to this period the idol past from hand to hand, 
and is at present in the possession of Poonjajee of Weerawow, whose grand- 
father, Suttajee, stole him from a Rajpoot of Pareenuggur. 

The pilgrimages to this Hindoo deity are made in caravans of many thousand 
persons, who have agents at Rahdunpoor, who settle beforehand with the 
different Coolie chiefs for a safe ccmveyance to the spot where the idol is to be 
seen. He is then dug out of the sand, imd placed under a guard of Rajpoots 
with drawn sabres, while the pilgrims perform their worship, and make 
offerings in proportion to their circumstances. These gifts are deposited in a 
large chest, and afterwards divided between the Soda Raja and his attendants. 
Numerous fees are exacted during the ceremonies, and are paid with extraor- 
dinary liberality by the votaries, who are on all other occasions a most parsi- 
monious race. 

After the customary solemnities have continued for a few days, the image is 
privately removed, and parties of horsemen gallop off in every direction, one oi 
whom has charge of the idol, whose actual place of concealment is known only 
to a few very confidential persons. In 1809, one party, or sungh, as it is called, 
from Surat, amounted to 9,000, besides pilgrims expected from other quarters, 
the vdiole being computed at 70,000 persons, who were to assemble at Mor- 
want, where the ceremony would be performed. The Raja who possesses this 
stone ftequently anticipates his revenue, and iportgages the approaching fees 
and diferings expected to be realized, for so lar^ a sum as a lack and a half of 
rupees. Be s id es the sums levied at the place of worship, all the adjacent towns 
ai^ <llde& extort contributions from these pious devotees, who, owing to their 
ianmouie numbers, sufihr besides many hudships in this barren region. 

The desert to ^ nmrth of PaAur is occupied by many migratory tribes, the 



584 MOOLTAN. [Fiwtmi. 

principal of which are the Kozas, who have led a predatory life ever dnoe the 
expulsion of the Abassy &mily from-the throne of Sinde. These Kozas are e 
tribe of Baloochees, renowned for their restless propensities as well as courage ; 
and nothing can more strongly prove the security of their present retreats in the 
desert than the fact, that the Talpoories (the reigning family of Sinde), although 
urged by every incentive both of revenge and self-preservation^ have not only 
been unable to extirpate the Kozas, but obliged to conciliate their forbearance. 
The occupations of this tribe are chiefly pastoral, such as rearing cattle, r amel*, 
and horses, so that when a plundering harvest presents itself, the means of ra.pid 
transport are always at hand. In 181 Q, a party of robbers from Parkur plun- 
dered some carts while crossing the Runn from Mallia. The Bombay preta- 
dency considering that town to be a dependency of Sinde, and the key of that 
country, addressed a letter of remonstrance to the Ameers, who in reply stated 
that so far from affording them protection, they would most willingly dispatch a 
force to aid in effecting their extirpation. The remote haunts of these plunderers 
place them beyond the reach of a British regular force ; and were one detached, 
unless the object could be fully and completely obtained, the evil would be infi- 
nitely augmented. Under these circumstances it appears most eligible to repel 
their incursions when they occur, rather than to attempt to hunt them out, or 
make them the subject of serious discussion with any of the neighbouring 
powers . — ( Maemrdo, Camac, ^'c, 



THE PROVINCE OF CUTCH. 

(cach’ha, a morass.) 


This province is principally situated between the 24th and 25th degrees of north 
latitude, and consists of two portions ; one an immense salt morass, described 
hereafter, and named the Runn ; the other an irregular hilly portion completely 
inaulated by the Runn and the sea. To the north it is bounded by the sandy 
district of Chalchkaun ; on the south by the gulf of Cutch and the Indian Ocean; 
to the east it has the province of Gujerat, and to the west that of Sinde. Includ- 
ing the Runn it may be estimated at 140 miles in length, by 95 the average 
breadth. By Abul Fazel, in 1582, it is described as follows : 

“ To the west of Gujerat is a very large separate territory, called Cutch, the 
length of which is 250 coss, and the breadth 100 coss. The territory of Sinde 
lies to the west of Cutch. The greatest part of Cutch is composed of woods and 
uncultivated sands. The horses are fine, and supposed to be of Arabian extrac- 
tion, and the camels and goats are also remarkably good. The capital city is 
Tahej, which has two strong forts, Jhareh and Kuukote.” 

It will be seen from the above statement that the real limits of the province 
are greatly exaggerated, indeed there is reason to suppose that, when Abul Fazel 
wrote, this portion of Hindostan was completely unexplored, as he does not even 
include it among the tributaries of his master Acber, which he was usually 
accustomed to do on very slender grounds. Nor was it until a very recent 
period (1809), when political events brought the British territories nearly in con- 
tact with this insulated region, that any accurate information was gained 
respecting the tribes by which it is inhabited ; and even at the present its sta- 
tistics have been but very imperfectly reported on, although its geographical 
position be one of the most singular in the world. The hilly portion of Cutch 
(which may "be distinguished by the name of Cutch Proper) is by no means 
deficient either in fertility or verdure, and is sufficiently productive where the 
nature of the government permits the cultivator to enjoy the fruits of his labour. 
■" Throughout the interior it is studded with hills of considerable elevation, mostly 
covered with jungle, where the petty chie£i erect their strong holds and dens, 
: VOl. r. 4 F' 



THE PROVINCE 


580 

and from whence they look down on, protect, or plunder the intervenii^ vallies. 
The principal towns are Bhooj, Mandavie, ^njar, Jharrah, Kuntcote, and'Kut* 
taria. There are many mountain streams, but no navigable rivers, and all along 
the coast of the Runn the wells and springs am more or less impregnated with 
common salt, and other saline ingredients. 

The soil of this province being cold, poor, and sterile, the rains generally 
scanty, and always uncertain, Cutch has never been able to produce a sufficiency 
for Hs own consumption. The three crops, therefore, that are produced by 
irrigated land, have always been considered the most material part of the culti- 
vation, and it is remarkable, that in the late distressing years of famine, such 
villages as had the advantage of wells, suffered much less than those without 
them. Water, which is everywhere scarce throughout Cutch, is chiefly found 
at the bottom of low ranges of hUls, which abound in some parts; but the inha- 
bitants of the extensive sandy tracts suffer greatly from the want of it. The 
village of Rutnal, and three others under the British jurisdiction, during March, 
April, May, and June of 181G, had not a drop of water nearer than six miles; 
and during the whole of the above four months no water was procurable between 
Anjar and Bhooj, a distance of 24 miles. Iron and coal have been discovered in 
Cutch ; the latter on the surface of the ground, but it does not appear that it is 
in general use as fuel. 

The town best known to Europeans is Bhooj, which is situated inland, the 
chief sea ports are Mandavie and Mundrah. The principal export is cotton to 
Bombay, also some ghee and occasionally grrin ; the articles mostly imported 
are sugar, pepper, raw silk, and piece goods. The cotton produced in Cutch is 
reckoned of an inferior quality. The exports from Cutch to Sinde are cotton, 
snuff, unwrought iron procured in Cutch, and the small Arabian aloe. The 
Mandavie merchants are at present the only opulent class of persons in Cutch. 

The native chiefs of Cutch have long been accustomed to boast of their 
independence, and pretend that since the foundation of the world they have 
never been conquered, and certainly few countries in Asia possess greater 
resources for defensive warfare, or greater capabilities for obstructing the pro- 
gress of an invading army. At present almost every village is fortified, and some 
of the fortifications are respectable. But however contemptible they may 
appear to a regular army and artillery train, they present most formidable, and 
almost insurmountable obstacles to troops unprovided with heavy guns, and 
unskilled in their management. These causes have hitherto pr^rved the inde- 
pendence of Cutch against the contiguous native powers, and it is probsd)Ie Its 
complete conquest will never be effected but by a series of protracted operattons, 



OF CUTCH. 


587 

to which an undisciplined army is incompetent. In addition to the more common 
means of defence, Cutch has some peculiar to itself, being for several months of 
the year wholly inaccessible to an invading army from the westward. The Kunu 
or Bunnee, which extends from Luckput Bunder to the frontiers of Gujerat, varies 
in breadth from six to 16 coss, and from the commencement to the breaking up 
of the rains is nearly impassable for single horsemen. From the sea, however, 
it is open to invasion, or to the receipt of re-inforcements, at all seasons of the 
year. In 1809 the following Jarajahs, or chiefs, with their forces, were enume- 
rated within this petty territory : — 

V’isajee, chief of Rooah, a strong fort, independent, could bring 1000 men into 
tlie held. • 

Pradjee, chief of Mauh, a small fort . . 250 men. 

Jarejahs Cacabhy, and Ruttonjee of Moutarra 500 


Dewajee of Pera 700 

Sandan Koonderjee 400 

Meranjee of Serteree 300 

Sangajee of Syarah 250 

Meranjee Bhawajee of Salran 250 

Atteijee Kidjee of Kothree 350 

Keswajee of Nagureha 300 

Dosajee of Godra 250 

Mallajee of Lyja 250 

Jarejah Ilamerjee of Vinjam 250 

Bhutta Loll Mega, a Mahommedan . . . 300 

Jarejah Jessajee of Juthree 250 

Kallajee of Dhon 200 

Lackajee of Assumla 300 

Verajee of Phradya 200 

Abherjee of Bajrajee 200 

Dhadjee of Juggoor 200 

Jeehajee of Puttree . 200 

Bhawajee of Ruttalia 200 


Kuntcote, Roopoor and Wandia can produce 1500 ' 

Maundra, belonging to Momen Sah . . . 400 

Dedeh Moojee of Shesesagur 200 

Jarejah Assalcajee of Nurrah 150 

8100 

BeMdes the above, Uiere were many small forts and fortified vill^es, belonging 

4f2 



588 


THE PROVINCE 


to different Bhyauds (brotherhoods or clans), and the forces of Futteh Mahom- 
med, the Jemadar of Cutch, were estimated at 

Arabs 1000 

Sindeans .... 1200 

Pundshikee and Cutch people 3000 

5200, of which number 1500 were horse. 

In addition to these the caste of Meannies, a species of hereditary militia, were 
supposed capable of pi^oducing 1000, and the district of Puchum 6000 horse 
and foot. 

Tlie piectice of female infanticide, formerly so prevalent in the Gujerat peiiin>f 
suia, has long been customary in fl^s ptt)vince, and for want of a sufficient\ 
influence on the part of the British government, it is to be feared still continues. 
Pripr to 1808, one account reckoned that 2000 female infants were annually 
destroyed by the Jarejah tribes, while another raised the number to 8000. At 
that period the Jarejah fraternity of. Cutch, could easily have overturned the 
usurped authority of Futteh Mahommed the Jemadar ; but they submitted to it 
from the consideration that they thereby obtained a sanction to their own power 
and illegal acquisitions. On this account he was afraid to compromise any of 
the. Jarejah privileges, and they considered the practice of female infanticide as 
one of the most important. But the zeal of this person (Futteh Mahommed) did 
not stop here; for although wholly illiterate, having risen from the humble 
station of a goat herd, and a Mahommedan by religion, yet he sent Colonel 
Walker a mo.st inflated and elaborate written defence of the practice of Ibmale 
infanticide. 

The Cutchies are naturally martial, and when left to themselves much exercised 
in predatory warfare ; but as the British influence extends, they are gradually, 
though unwillingly, adopting more pacific habits. Most of these turbulent tribes 
claim a Rajpoot origin; some have wholly, and many partially, been converted to 
the Mahommedan faith, which continues so progressive in this quarter of India, 
that another century would have probably seen the extinction nf the Hindoo. 
Among their neighbours the Cutchies have the character of being treacherous, 
an opinion which seems to have arisen from Row Bhara of Bhooj having delivered 
up Muzuffer, the last Sultan of Gujerat, to his enemies. When a reconciliation is 
efiected, the parties drink of a potion named cassoomba, which is considered as 
the Icthe of enmity among the Rajp«pts of Cutch and Catty war. A translation 
of die Lord's prayer into the Cutdi langut^e, when examined by the missionaries, 
vras found to contain 24 words out of 32 radically the same as the Hindostany 
and Bengalese specimens. Compared widi the western or southern Bindec 
dialect, or with dwt of Oodi, the difference, as heard in oonversatioii, is very eonai^ 



OF CUTCH. 


589 

derable. There is a Varrun Sunker tribe settled in Cutch, and also in various 
parts of Gnjerat and the Deccan, whose modem occupation consists chiefly in 
selling milk and day labouring. Although of so low a caste they wear the 
Janooee, or distinguishing string of the higher tribes of Hindoos, and pretend to 
be descended from the Khetri or military caste. On the south coast of Cutch 
along the sea coast, the inhabitants practised piracy as a regular profession, ^d 
a particular tribe, named the Saganians, cruized for merchant vessels a consi- 
derable distance from their own shores ; but these, like the neighbouring sea 
plunderers of the Gujerat peninsula, have recently been effectually suppressed. 

About A. D. 1450, Khengur, then one/>f the Sovereigns of Cutch, in gratitude 
to the Meannies, who had been instrumental in saving him from destruction, 
granted them a licence to plunder with impunity, which to this day is so respected 
by the chiefs of his family, that a Meannie is only obliged to restore the plun- 
dered property, but never subjected to fine or corporeal punishment. In later 
times, however, this predatory commission has been found so inconvenient, that 
the government of Cutch, rather than infringe the licence, have recourse to an 
indirect method of procuring castigation, by requesting the neighbouring chief- 
tains to execute it, who are not restrained by an hereditary obligation. 

The ancient history of Cutch cannot be expected to be particularly minute or 
satisfactory, as although so near to Bombay, it has, until within these few years, 
been an unknown land, Rar Lucka, a Raja of Cutch, is supposed to have lived 
about 1010 of the Sumbut, or A. D. 1054. Abras, another Raja of Cutch, cele- 
brated for his 'ong beard, was slain by Sultan Allah ud Deen Ghori, when he 
overrun the whole of western India. When Abul Fazel wrote, the province 
appears to have been independent, and totally unconnected with the general 
politics of Hindostan. The modern authentic history of this province commences 
in 1795, when, according to native accounts, the existing Raja was imprisoned 
by his prime minister, Deo Chund Loanna, in conjunction with one of his wives, 
who continued to officiate as chief functionary until the young Raja came of age, 
when he put to death the minister and sixty of his family. 

This Raja, who appears to have been always insane, persecuted the Banyans, 
built a mosque, appointed Crossa Beg, a Mahommedan, prime minister, from 
among the adherents of which faith he also selected a wife, repudiating his Raj- 
poot spouses, and finally crowned his apostacy by killing a cow. Some time 
afterwards Crossa Beg died, and was succeeded as dewan or premier, by Dos- 
sulvene, in whose employ Futteh Maliommed then served as a private sepoy, 
but was subsequently promoted to the rank of Jemadar. This commander, soon 
discovering his own abilities and importance, acquired a leading influence among 
tlm m^taryt mul overawed the Raja, whose mental derangement continued. 



THE PROVINCE 


590 

The Raja's uncle was appointed Regent, but the efficient power remained with 
the Jemadar. The Regent died in 1801, and his son was considered the 
legitimate heir, the reigning prince having no progeny, except a son by a Ma- 
hommedan concubine, who was declared illegitimate by the Jahrejahs of the 
counfry, who in consequence of the prevailing anarchy threw off all dependence 
on the state of Bhooj, the capital of Cutch, and exercised all the functions of 
sovereignty each in his petty state. Before this dissolution of the Cutch govern- 
ment, the revenues accruing to the Raja were estimated at ten lacks of rupees 
per annum. 

In 1802, Captain Seton was dispatched from Bombay as ambassador to the! 
State of Cutch, but his mission was attended with no satisfactory result, on\ 
account of the unsettled state of its political condition. In 1809, Captain Green- 
wood was deputed from the same presidency to Futteh Mahommed of Bhooj, 
the real chief, 55 years of age, and a man of vigour and capacity. The legiti- 
mate ostensible sovereign was Maha Row Raja Raidhun, an idiot, and sort of 
pageant to the Jemadar. On this occasion the points which the envoy was 
instructed to attain were, the exclusion of all foreign and European power from 
Cutch ; the relinquishment of all pretensions, on the part of Futteh Mahommed, 
to interfere with the affairs of the Gujerat peninsula (Cattywar), and the sup- 
pression of piracy, the whole of which were at the time thought to have been 
substantially effected. The forces which the Jemadar had then collected for the 
invasion of Hallaur, on the opposite side of the Runn, amounted to 12,000 men, 
of every sort, assembled by the hopes of plunder; in addition to which he 
possessed a few field pieces and two European deserters. Soon after this event, 
the Ameers of Sinde, who had long been encroaching on the territories of Cutch, 
appeared to meditate its entire reduction, in which event the British frontier in 
that quarter, instead of being defended by a nation of Rajpoots (who enter- 
tained no ambition of conquest themselves, although tenacious in self defence), 
would be exposed to invasion from the restless people of Sinde, to the constant 
danger of public tranquillity, and great detriment of the Company's finances. 
To avert these evils a negociation was commenced with the rulers both of Cutch 
and Sinde, and the latter being informed that the British government would not 
tolende any projects against the independence of Cutch, they suspended or 
relinqui.shed their ambitious views against that principality. 

On the 23d April, 1813, Futteh’'<Mahommed crossed the Runn, and esta- 
blished a military post at a place called Sautulpoor, to the eastward of the 
gulf of Cutch, which he was afterwards compelled to abandon; and on Ihe 16th 
of next October this chief terminated lus turbulent life, leaving several sops by 
different wives, one of whom, named Hossein Meye. managed to usurp a cod* 



OF CUTCH. 


591 

$iderable portion of his father’s power and property. Row Raidhun, the old 
and insane Raja, survived his prime minister but a few days, as he also died on 
the 6th of next November. For some time previous to the death of Futteh 
Mahommed, owing to a habit of intoxication, he had scarcely been able to 
attend to business, the direction of public affairs had in consequence devolved 
on his confidential servant Jugjevan, a Brahmin, who had thus an opportunity 
of acquiring an influence over the army. The late Raja had long declared himself 
a Mahommedan, which sect were preparing to inter the body, but the Jahrejahs 
and other Hindoos, considering it an insult to their religion, proceeded to the 
palace, led by Jugjevan, and conveyed the body to the usual spot, where it was, 
with the customary ceremonies, committed to the flames. Many other broils 
ensued between the two factions, and much bloodshed; Jugjevan, with several 
of his family, having been assassinated at the instigation of Hossein Meya and 
his brother Ibrahim, a youth of a tyrannical and sanguinary disposition, who 
was himself soon after destroyed by a party adverse to the domination of the 
late Futteh Mahoramed’s descendants. Hossein Meya, although nominally at 
the head of affairs, possessed in fact very little authority, the Arabs in his 
employ having usurped nearly all the power; while the chief of Mandavie, and 
others, were in open opposition to him. In the mean time the depredations 
from Wagur were carried on with increased activity, so that notwithstanding the 
anxiety of the British government, both at home and abroad, to avoid getting 
entangled with the politics of Cutch, the progress of events was such as no 
longer to permit their neutrality. 

Colonel East, of the Bombay military establishment, who had been employed 
with a force in regulating the affairs of Noanagur, was in consequence recalled 
from that service, and intrusted with the conducting of the operations in Cutch. 
His detachment amounted to 7070 men (including 1733 Europeans), in addition 
to which he was joined by 3500 of the Guicowar's troops, making altogether a 
force of 10,570 men. With this most respectable force Colonel East crossed 
the Runn on the 5th of November, 1815, and on the 17th December, when 
within three days march of Bhooj, envoys arrived in his camp from that capital, 
upon which it was his intention to move ; but on discovering a bag containing a 
mixture of wheat and arsenic in the tank from whence the troops were to have 
drawn their water, and being informed that all the wells and tanks on the road 
to Bhooj had been poisoned in a similar manner, he directed his march against 
the fort of Anjar, then in the occupation of Hossein Meya, which surrendered 
after a practicable breach had been nearly effected. The force then proceeded 
against Bhooj, and when within five miles of it, vakeels arrived in camp, and 
it b^ng ascartmned that the wishes of the several Jahrejah diiefs were unanimous 



THE PROVINCE 


592 

in favour of Row Bhannaljee, (the illegitimate son of the late Raja,) the nego- 
ciations were commenced with that chieftain, and a treaty of alliance concluded 
on the 14th January, 1816. By the conditions of this engagement, the Row 
undertook to make good the losses sustained by the chieftains of Cattywar from 
predatory incursions, amounting to eight lacks of rupees, and also to reimburse 
the expenses of the expedition, altogether amounting to 20 lacks. He rendered 
himself responsible for the future good conduct of his subjects, agreed to disband 
the Arab mercenaries except 400, and fixed the Runn and gulf of Cutch as the 
eastern boundaries of his principality. He ceded in perpetuity the fort of Anjar 
and its dependencies, estimated at a lack of rupees per annum; and screed to pay 
in perpetuity 65,000 rupees per annum, which sum was afterwards voluntarily^ 
relinquished by the British government, as also nearly the whole of the sum 
awarded for the expenses of the campaign, which liberality made a strong 
impression on the chiefs and people of Cutch. The British government on their 
part undertook to cooperate with the Raja in recovering such parts of his 
dominions as had at different times been alienated by treachery, and also to 
abstain from murdering cows and bullocks within the limits of the Cutch juris- 
diction. It w^ mutually agreed, that neither state should afford an asylum to 
plunderers, and, in. order to secure the observance of these several stipulations, 
the Raja consented to allow a British agent to reside constantly at his court, 
towards whose expenses he even offered to contribute. On this occasion the 
impaired power of the Row was made a pretext for paying no attention to the 
representations of the Bombay presidency on the subject of female infanticide ; 
in the suppression of which so little progress had been made, that in 1316, the 
resident at Baroda distinctly reported its abolition in Cutch had not been 
effected. The urgent remonstrances made during the life time of the Jemadar 
Futteh Mahommed, and subsequently to the Row and his ministers, had proved 
unavailing ; the first declaring that an interference with the religious prejudices 
of the country was incompatible with the precarious tenure of his power ; the 
last, that owing to the turbulence and internal commotions of Cutch, it was 
wholly beyond their ability. 

In 1814, the Peshwa, who, according to a Maharatta maxim of long standing, 
claimed every thing, asserted a jurisdiction over, and endeavoured to exact as 
far as his feeble means went, a tribute from this province, although it was noto- 
rious, that the Row of Cutch was no more under the controul of tiie Pedxwa, 
than was the Nabob of the Carnafrc, from whom the Maharattas frHtoerly 
extorted tribute. The independence maintained by Cutch through a aeiiee of 
centuries, idthough situated between po.verful and amlfil^uft empirea; i» a 
proof that-it was known to contain notiii^g tb gpktiff ludbttioB, nr to compw 



fitiiktiirir.] OFCimSH. 593 

^ txpenM df itt conqueltt vlu^ wonld he aggravated by the time 
MMMMiary fixr the reduction of the umumerable little fortreines with which it is 
•hulded. On Ihis account it is rather desirable that it should remain a barrier 
between 1^ British possessions, and those of the Ameers of Sinde, as it pos* 
eemee no manuihctures, and if subjugated could afford no revenue equal to the 
ithai^ of defending it, and muntaining tranquillity among the innumerable 
claim and brotherhoods. 

Providmrce, however, seems to have decreed that the connexion of the 
BritiA government with Cutch shall be as intimate as with any other province 
of Hindostan; for in 1818, the new l^w, so recently placed on the throne, 
whether from hereditary insanity or the immoderate use of spirituous liquors, 
murdered his cousin Ladhooba, the nephew of the late Row, and assembled a 
hostile feree of 5000 troops between Bhooj and Anjar, interdicting his subjects 
all intercourse with the latter. In the mean time the widow of Ladhooba was 
delivered of a son, and as the Row appeared utterly incapable of governing, it 
was determined to depose him and place his legitimate successor on the throne. 
’A detachment under Sir William Kier was in consequence marched against him, 
which on the 26th of March, 1810, in the course of a few hours took his fort 
of Bhooj by escalade, where two subsidiary battalions were left to preserve 
order, until the arrangements meditated could be completed. 

These internal broils, combined with a famine and pestilence by which this 
unfortunate country has been visited, have greatly obstructed the cultivation, 
and thinned the inhabitants, many of whom have been induced to emigrate to 
Bombay and Gujerat. On the 16th June, 1819, an additional calamity befel 
the province, an uncommonly violent earthquake having on that day nearly 
destroyed Bhooj its capital, and greatly injured the towns of Anjar, Mandavie, 
end Moondria. — (Col. A. Walker, Public AiS. Docwments, Capt. Alamurdo, 
OgA, dWoe, RenneU, Alaxjield, ^c. ^c. 8^c.) 

THE RUNN, 

(or JSfWt, a mrm, backwater, or waste, also a fidd of battle), 

A viiy extensive salt morass, which bounds the west frontier of the Gujerat 
|X(ifvih6ti eommunicates with the gulf of Cutch, and sweeps round the nor^em 
iMx liuKt province, which, dunqg the height of the rains, it insulates, and at 
ether tfeuM exhibits a great variety of appearances. In some places it is a 
miUWip cxianded dmet of thaUow water, only a few inches dec|>, in others an 
idt swamp, abewheie n ^ unproductive bank sA tmA, m amne 



THE PEOVINCE 


594 


[the BUHir. 


and susceptible of cultivation ; but every where strongly impregnated 'mUk saJlM) 
particles adverse to vegetation. The total superficies of this immense mmass 
may be estimated at 8000 square miles, without including any portion of ^ 
gulf of Cutch, which is in many parts so shallow as more to resemble a marshy 
fen than an arm of the sea. In its greatest extent the Runn is connected widi 
the gulf of Cutch on the west, and the gulf of Cambay on the east, these 
two divisions being united during the monsoon, forming the Gujerat peninsula 
into an island, the access to which, however, is never entirely cut off. 

The Runn, or Bunnee, from west to east, stretches from Luckput Bunder to 
the frontiers of Gujerat, and varies in rits breadth from 6 to 80 miles across i 
but from the commencement to the breaking up of the rains is nearly impassable 
for single horsemen. It is said to be formed by the overflow of the river Puddar,\ 
and the gulf of Cutch, during the monsoon ; but in December, between Mallia \ 
and Anjar it is quite dry, and in most places hard. Seen from the Cattywar \ 
coast, the Runn presents a singularly wild appearance, bounded in the extreme 
horizon by the hills of Wagur, having the appearance of an arm of the sea, 
from which, owing to some convulsion, the ocean had receded, or the dry bed 
of an immense river. It is throughout a dead flat, and in most parts, especially 
near Mallia, totally devoid of verdure and vegetation. In this quarter, as 
&r as the eye can reach, a mixture of earthy sand, covered with a thin lamina 
of salt mud, presents a dreary view. In different parts small insulated quick 
sands are seen, having in the middle a saline streak and incrustation of about 
100 yards extent, and for a considerable distance on both sides, the sur&ce is 
strewed with thousands of prawns, mullets, and other fish. Tracts of lai^e 
birds are also seen, and on the Cutch side, apes and porcupines. 

On approaching the opposite side the incrustration of salt is so thick, as to have 
the appearance of snow ; in other quarters it is said to extend the whole way 
across at particular seasons, presenting many singular optical deceptions, fiwm 
the reflection and refraction of the sun’s rays. The little saline shrubs and 
bushes are magnified to the size of lofty forest trees, waving, jeparating, and 
uniting again ; armies seem to march over the flat ; castles and fortifications rise, 
disappear, and reappear in the salt bed of the morass. Under the saline crust, 
thc'ipmiud in some places is soft and moist, in others dry and fom. The dis- 
tance across the Runn, where the detachment marched in 1816 is exactly lOf toilet 
from shorn to shore ; the dragoons arched the opposite bank in two heuit and 
three quarters, and the European infimtry in three Wrs and a half. The co^odry 
on the northern bank in "Wtugw is much more pleasing to the eye than tht^ of - 
Ute south side, fn that district a kind of marie, or limsitone, extends on the 
northern dde^;tm verge ejf die tnim^dcm. The nuliahs, wiiliai' coiwsei, ' 



OF CUTCH. 


BHOOJ.] 


505 


leftdkig iinto tile Rirnn, kive quick sands in their beds, which are also impreg* 
nated wi^ salt, so that fresh water cannot be had on the Cutch side except at 
a considerable distance from the bank. On the north side, the Runn was crossed 
by the embassy returning from Sinde in 1809, where its extreme breadth was 
probably about 60 miles, but the country was in few places an absolute morass, 
<m tile ctmtrary, many places exhibited both pasturage and scanty cultivation ; 
but every thing in this tract has a tendency to the saline. 

Hie banks of the Runn are much frequented by that curious animal, the wild 
ass, which is seen in herds of 60 and 70 at a time. This ass is larger than in 
its tame state ; the body of an ashe colour, changing to a dirty white under the 
bdly, and is upon the whole a larger *and stronger animal than when domes- 
ticated. It is extremely watchful and difficult to catch. It breeds on the 
banks of the Runn, and on the salt islands in the centre of that tract, where it 
browzes on the brackish and stunted vegetation of the desert. In November 
and December it advances into the country and ravages the grain fields. This 
animal has been sometimes caught in pits, but has always been found fierce and 
untameable, biting and kicking in the most ferocious manner, accompanied by 
an angry snorting, which appears to be its only voice. Their flesh is esteemed 
good eating by the natives, who lie in wait for them near their drinking places. 

The whole of the extensive space occupied by this immense morass, appears 
at some remote period to have been covered witii the waters of the ocean, which 
have since subsided, and are still imperceptibly draining ofl* ; yet by the natives 
it is said to be annually and visibly increasmg on the west side, where it joins 
the gulf. According to a tradition still current, the voice of a man could at one 
time be heard from Cutch to Cattywar ; and opposite to Joria, now a sea-port, 
tiiere was formerly a foot path at low water, but the truth of this cannot be sub- 
stantiated by any records now extant. The natives assert, that during the great 
earthquake of the 16th of June, 1819, that portion of the Runn situated be- 
tween the main land of Cutch, and the insulated district of Kowrali, was sud- 
dmily covered with a sheet of water, two feet in depth, for an extent of six miles 
^ in breadth (the length from east to west unknown), which in a few hours subsided 
to about half tiie above depth, and next day had neiurly disappeared . — ( Public 
Colonel Walker, Ceqttain Maemurdo, 4'c. ^c. ^.) 

/ SfrooJ (Bkttf). — ^The capital of Cutch, and residence of the Row and his 
^ij^oadar, Futteh Mahommed. Lat 23'^ 15' N. long. 69° 52' E. Hiisisastrong, 
^t irre^ar fortress, consisting of a curtsin flanked by round and square towers, 
extremely well built of stone and lime. The walls are high and of great thick- 
' smd it. is tndd to be well provided with artillery <sf a heavy calibre. To 
enatwiord R. is protected by a atroBf and high forty taReiS Hie 



596 THB PROVINCE' [iWntT lomut. 

streets of Bhooj are &ced by the high stone walls of the endosuiei of tiie dwd- 
ling houses, the entrances into which are seldom towards the streets, butm 
angular recesses, or in lanes. The streets turn suddenly at sharp angles. The 
houses are in the centre of the enclosures, terraced, and provided with loc^ 
holeB,,so that each dwelling is, in a manner, a separate fortification, and gene* 
rally enfilades the streets and approaches. The loss in storming a town of this 
description would be very great, where every house is a fort, and where in such 
an exigence every inhabitant would be a soldier. 

On the 26th of March, 1819, the hill fort of Bhooj was tahen by escalade by 
a detachment under Sir William Kier ; and on the 16th of June, both town and | 
fort were nearly destroyed by an uncommonly violent earthquake. 

Muxdraii. — sea-port town in the province of Cutch, 32 miles south from 
Bhooj. Lat. 22“ 47' N. long. 69“ 66' E. 

Maxdavie (or MuMi ), — ^This is the principal sea-port of Cutch, situated on 
the sea coast, about 36 miles S. S. W. from Bhooj, the capital. Lat. 22* 60' N. 
long. 69“ 33' E. It possesses an excellent harbour, and is a place of consider- 
able trade with Sinde, Arabia, and Africa ; in these respects being equalled by 
few native marts in this quarter of Hindostan, but it possesses few manufactures 
and none of importance. 

In 1809, Hans Raja, the chieftain of Mandavie, and who styled himself the 
Dewan of Cutch, being invaded by Futteh Mahommed, the Jemadar of Bhooj, 
threw himself on the British protection, and agreed to receive and maintain a 
resident at his capital ; but dying just as the negociations were concluded, his 
son and successor declined receiving the resident, and seemed much inclined 
to evade the execution of the treaty in its most essential articles. Being soon 
after attacked by Futteh Mahommed, he changed his note, and implored tiie 
intervention of the Bombay government, which, forgetting his recent tergiversa- 
tion, interfeitd to protect him, and arbitrated the differences between the two 
chiefs, which being amicably adjusted, Futteh Mahommed returned to his ca- 
pital . — (Public MS. Documents, Captain Aixhibald Robinson, Colonel Walker, 

SuBuor. — A small town situated on the road from Luckput Bunder to Man- 
daviq, on the gulf of Cutch, from which place it is distant 23 miles to the nortii- 
west. It stands on a rising ground, and is defended by a small castle. It baa 
the appearance from without of beir^ populous, and the surrounding country hi 
tolerably well cultivated. 

Veergoox . — A town and fbrtresa in the province of Cutch, about 30 m^s 
N; W. from Mandavie.---(' 

in Cutely ' stixtwbMi- 



fAuiua.l OFCm*att. ‘ 597 

ettftk, c»r rives, comnumicates with the aat, httt MvigaUe only for tmid) 
veaedle. Lat 23” 47' N. Itmg. 68” ^ £. 75 miles W. H, W. from BhooJ. The 
liQckpttt Bonder stands on the western hrow of a hill, which rises from 
a swunpf plain, about a mile and a half from the Luckput Bunder river, named 
the Lonee. In figure it is an irregular polygon, defended by round towers, and 
built of hard brown stone. The eastern side is flanked by a hill of the same 
material, and containing a large tank, which becomes dry towards the end of 
Mwch, There are 'several other tanks within the fort, but the water is not 
Reckoned good. 

The walls of this fortress are of considerable height, but not thick, and there 
are only six pieces of artillery mounted*on the works. To the westward of the 
> principal gate a wall divides the inside of the fort into two parts, the western 
only being inhabited. It is not supposed to contain more than 2000 inhabitants, 
of whom 500 are sepoys ; and it is at present a place of little trade. It is, 
nevertheless, the principal town on the road from Hyderabad, the capital of 
Sinde, to Mandavie, the chief sea-port of Cutch. The most convenient time 
for performing this journey is during the months of July and August, when the 
creeks are navigable for ^t-bottomed boats to Ali Bunder, where a small neck 
of land separates the fresh water from the salt water creek, over which isthmus 
the boats are easily carried! In 1809, Mohin Meya, an Asiatic Turk, who com- 
manded the garrison, expelled the agents of Hans Raja of Mandavie, whose 
servant he was, and assumed the government on his own account . — ( Captain 
Maxfield, Public MS. Documents, S^c.) 

Mer. — ^T his town is situated about 15 miles south from Luckput Bunder, on 
the route from that place to Mandavie, in the gulf of Catch. Lat. 23® 32' N. 

Omeerseer. — A village in the Cutch province, situated about four miles 
south from Luckput Bunder. Lat. 23® 43' N. 

Korah. — A village in Cutch, situated about 10 miles S. from Luc.kput Bun- 
der, on die road from that place to Mandavie, on the gulf of Cutch. The 
surrounding country is very hilly, and yields large quantities of iron ore. Kear 
the village are two or three furnaces for smelting it. — (Maxjield, 

Jharrah. — A. town in the province of Cutch, 53 miles N. W. from Bhooj, 
the co ital. Lat. 23® 40' N. long. 69° 9' E. 

Tahrah' — k town and fortress in the province of Cutch, situated about 30 
mifos S. £. from Luckput Bunder, on the road from that place to Mandavie. 

. The fort is an irregular building, defended by round towers, flanked by a iRrge 
t^hk bn each side ; the town on the souUi, and the suburbs on the wesL The 
tnhifoitaiits are numerous, and principally Hindoos. The surroundh^ country 
Jp weil rndtivi^, and the soil a heavy sandy %c.) 



598 THE PROVINCE {aujah. 

Anjab. — A small district in the province of Cutch, c^ed to tilie British 
government in 1816, and govmned by a commissioner deputed fromriie Bomtoy 
presidency. As the motives which led to the establishment of the Britiidi 
authority in Cutch, were of a political more than a fiscal nature, the revenue 
system has been conducted at Anjw on the most liberal principles ; the object 
being merely to raise as much as will defray the immediate expense of its own 
protection. Water is the great deficiency^ and in many parts the soil is so loose 
and sandy as to be unfit for tanks. In some parts, wells have been tried without 
.success, whilst in others the poverty of the inhabitants has precluded the at- 
tempt. The expense of sinking wells differs according to the soil and depth 
where water is found. A well cut in ro'ck, with water at 15 cubits, can be dug 
at an expense of 112 rupees ; and generally speaking, the depth at which water 
is found in the Anjar pergunnah, does not exceed 23 cubits. There are some 
'villages, however, where it is much deeper, and others where the research is 
hopeless. Of the first description is the village of Kokra ; of the second Rap- 
poor, Rutnal, and Kharee Rohur. Rutnal is one of the largest ville^es in the 
district, and Rohur is a sea-port ; yet both are destitute of water. 

Throughout the eastern portion of Cutch, the lands are considered the pro- 
perty of the cultivator, who has the power of selling them for his own benefit, 
under a reservation of the government bhog, or share of the produce. The 
bhoota, or land, is therefore the property of the Ryot ; and the bhog, or custo- 
mary revenue, only, that of the state. This subdivision of the property in the 
soil is coeval with the establishment of the jarejahs in Cutch. The lands, or 
warrees, rendered productive through the means of irrigation, are divided int^' 
three kinds. 1st. the Bhogettee lands, paying, revenue. 2d. the Passaita. 
or grants to individuals by government of its bhog, or share of the produce. 
3d. the Peerannee lands, Uie property of religious establishments, although 
now mortgaged to cultivators. These Peerannee lands were originally granted 
by a Row of Cutch, about 100 years ago, to a Gossain, who in Cutch is caUed a 
Peer, for the benefit of the temple at Anjar ; but at present not erne acre remains 
to the saint : bad management on the one hand, and cunning on the oriier, 
having transferred the property to Banyans and merchants, under various deeds 
of mm'^fage, from which the peer is not able to extricate himsdf. The late 
Jemadar, Futteh Mahommed, was in the habit of making a conveaienoe of lldl . 
sanctuary, for by displacing one pontiff #om the Gnddee, and elcvatmg aooMier* 
he Ce^iis^ about as much as was in other shapes abstracted by titam fipom tite 
revenue. 

Out of 201 wetti tn the pergunnah, used for irr^riqh, 6® 40. 

fmfernment i arid riwee ^ wamei, especiaSy ih yW 



OF CUTCH. 


ndlivi,] 

«y i»«» who «i.l«r.L™w“h%rhSz^”\T,i"'‘^ “ *“■ 

be wror;ftiif.st"”” t 

;r “ --X' r/^'i vjf^- 

e^ie, but bo«„d« tirbr^rz^^irofTSd”"’'"* 

r«dy ™ible, from the cewtion of the rastomary d>r. ^.l!°/ °'Tai‘ “V^' 
^,ua,ity which Wagur, fonueriy the iyt^tSeXtat 

th? j-beennabeu, 

extend the cultivation. Some have been ^ntA,l ^ J Penmssion to 

been lying untiUed fo'c a nurbe^If X“™Ta:lrt,:r 

iftlr^WchT* “ Th *‘'“' f" ““ ™‘'> f" *'« 

b their further imp^vemeut, the Bombay goverumeut m^ t^^, Jl jZ 
of several tanks, which can be done for 1000 ninees cch Za . 
lidau, aud aunplify the customs and port duties, which as tTey “d”™' 
sent A most perplexing number and varietv nf imn/vof /'*r pre- 

MS, JiocumeZ \c. 4.) ^ ^ra^^^.^Macmurdo, Public 

AirjAn.-The capital of the preceding district, situated on the side of a hill 

T?. 1 ! “ gulf of Cutch; the bunder, or fort, being To^a 

whi^ is ftwited by a creek of the gulf. Lat. 23* 3' N. long. 70* i/e. The 
for^catooM of Anjar form a polygon, but are not strong; the wall being with 
out a <htch, only 16 feet high, and six in thickness. It surrendered in 1816 to 
C^East, detactaent, after a breach had been effected, when 36 guns’ Tf 
4iffbrent sizes were found mounted, from two to 12 pounders* The 

? 300 Arabs; and the town, which is two-miles in circumference then 
floumWng; being encompassed by gardens and cultivated fiTds The 
tnhabitanta m feir and well looking. In the month of December the thermo 
was foupd to sink to 60 * of Fahrenheit.-rP«Wic Journals, 4c S^c^ 

« principal sea-port of the Anjar pergunnah, and is situ. 

peninsula, » 80 

I anfl the vessels are eonsequently small but the 




600 THB t^OVINCB • 

great saving of land carriage, and the safetjr of the passage lead the mcnelniifi 
to prefer this route. The port of Hohur on the west side is oapaUe of r«oeiyiii| 
vessels of 200 ceudies burthen, but from the eastward, or the Wbwamia side, 
the water as already stated is extremely shallow. It has, however, a hard sandy 
beach, on which carts can proceed at low water close to the vessels, and^ieoeive 
their cargoes. There is a small fort here fast going to-ruin, but Which is td* im* 
portance to secure merchandize during the night from the Meyaima robbers, isho 
infest the banks of the Ronn, 


About 1810, this small port yielded a revenue of 90,000 kories (four to the 
rupee) or 22,500 rupees, on goods brought annually from Jhallawar in the Qa« 
jerat peninsula. TUs large revenue subsequently disappeared owing to tne 
insecure state of the country under the late Jemadar Futteh Mahonuned ; but 
there is every reason to expect that with the operation of time and a stead^n 
government, the trade will revert to its former channel. The want of fresh 
water for more than two miles from Rohur, will always have a material effect in 
checking its prosperity. Many attempts have been made to secure a supply, 
but they have always failed on account of the strongly^ialine impregnation of the 
soil. The inhabitants have consequently hitherto been obliged to fetch water 
for their own consumption, and for the supply of vessels, from a distance of two 
miles; but in 1817, the Bombay presidency, at the recommendation of Capt. 
Macmurdo, sanctioned the expenditure of 1000 rupees for the construction of a 
tank, capable of containing a twelvemonth’s supply of water, which when com- 
pleted will tend greatly to the removal of this evil, and to the future prosperity 
of the port. — (Macmurdo, MS. Documents, S^'c.) 

Tahxj. — ^A lthough this was the capital of Cutch in 1582, when Abul Fazel 
wrote, all traces of it have been lost in modem times ; but from what he says it 
was probably situated somewhere to the north west of Anjar. 

Waour (or CJmrwaghur).~-^\xvi district forms the eastern portion of Cutdh 
Proper, as distinguished from the Runn, and has the shape of a peninsula, being 
neariy surrounded by that immense morass and the gulf of Cutch. The interiw 
is somewhat elevat^ and woody, with various small streams and water oourtea 
falUng into the Runn. The people of Wagur are Mahommedana and noted for 
their predatory habits, which has obtained for their country the disthietive 
of Choor Waghur, or the Waghur of thieves. A coeuddeitlde 
of tlds territory was formerly tribu^y to the Nabobs of Rahdunpoor. but these 
princes iUluig into decay, and being unable to enforce their claiins, the tritotos 
has not for a comnderable time been exacted. In later times the Rows 


have chum^^ foud^ apriority over toe whcde, aad betog sisist^ hy a 





va<sw».3 op CUTCH. 601 

1816, no force remained to prevent the incursions of plunderers from the north 
and 'west It would have been better policy, had the Row taken security for 
their future good behaviour from these petty chieftains, and maintained them in 
possession of their lands, on condition that their fortresses either retained a Cutch 
garrison, or were entirely destroyed. The forcible transfer of landed property 
on the west coast of India, is always followed by a series of excesses on the part 
of tile ejected ; and the contiguity of Wagur to the most extensive desert of 
Hindostan, through which the disaffected of the neighbouring countries are nu- 
merously scattered, presents to the exiles an inviting retreat, from whence they 
can advantageously prosecute their predatory excursions. This result took 
place in 1816, when the disaffected from Wagur were joined by others from the 
Jutwaur country, and by those tribes of the desert that had adopted a predatory 
life, after tlie expulsion of the Abassy family from the throne of Sinde. 

After tlie fort of Kuntcote had been partially destroyed by working parties 
from tlie troops and by the people of the country ; the Row interceded for the 
preservation of the remainder, promising tc establish a strong military post, 
which was indispensable in some part of the north-west frontier, in order to 
guard it against the inroads of the more northern and western plunderers. 
Besides this reason for its retention, the wild and jungly hills that surround 
Kuntcote appeared so well adapted for the retreats of banditti, that the further 
demolition of the fort was stopped, and the Raja in consequence established 
there a police detachment of considerable strength. The town of Beylalinear, 
tlie northern extremity, also required examination and additional precautions. 
This place with the land attached had been the grass of a Waghela Rajpoot 
family, which in the course of time split into three branches, each of which 
possessed a section of the town, separated off by a wall and towers. One of 
these families sought the protection of the Row of Cutch, while the other fled 
to Parkur in the desert ; on which event Beylah w^ occupied, two of tlie forts 
destroyed, and the third garrisoned by a strong detachment of horse and foot. 
This place had long been the principal rendezvous of tlie depredators who laid 
waste the Gujerat peninsula, and it would have been im]>olitic again to confide 
it to the integrity of a petty native chieftain. A police station was in conse- 
qu^e fixed on the spot, and the good effects resulting from the measure were 
,*oon visible, as no banditti have since attempted to take the route by Beylah 
info dhallawaur, although it was formerly the most frequented road. Of the 
Beylah fiunily two branches were retained in the service of the Row, smd still 
^Mjjoy the produce of tlieir lands ; vdillst tte other, refusing the advances of his 
highneaH toward# accommodation, 1# still in exile at Parkur in the desert. 

other ammgments Lodrauni, the gtu$ of a Waghela Rajpoot, and 
visi, I, ' '• 4 w 



602 THE PKOVINCE [wakdia. 

situated to the north-westward of Beylah, was gamsoned by the Row, and a 
tribixte imposed on its owner, whilst Guddra, another port in t^t direction, was 
rendered untenable, and left in possession of its chiefs. The chiefs of Arrysir, 
Wandia, and Chittore, being Jahrejas of the Row’s own family, he was particu- 
larly inveterate against them, and was desirous of reducing them to a state of 
the most abject subjugation. It was at first resolved that their forts should be 
levelled, but it was afterwards discovered that no detachment of the Rows, 
however strong, could msintain an open position in defiance of the banditti, and 
as Arrysir and Wandia more especially commanded the eastern and western 
passes into the territories of the Peshwa and Guicowar, their occupation was of 
importance. The two first were in consequence preserved, and troops sent to 
garrison them, while Chittore, being totally useless, was levelled. Wandia admitted 
the troops without demur, but the Arrysir chief, not liking to trust himself to th^^ 
good -faith of the Cutch authorities, refused to admit them until he had the\ 
previous security of the British resident. Besides stationing these garrisons, an 
annual tax w'as settled, payable to the Row, of ten rupees for every plough, and 
a fine was also imposed on every chieftain according to his abilities. Eight 
other plundering strong holds were also occupied by the Row’s officer, but the 
Grassias were permitted to enjoy the revenues, subject to the authority of the 
Cutch state, and liable to an annual tribute ; the Waghcla Rajpoots of 25 rupees, 
and the Jahrejas of 10 rupees per plough. 

Towards the conclusion of 1816, the district of Wagur was tolerably tranquil, 
but notwithstanding the above mentioned precautionary measures, the Row of 
Catch was supposed to hold his authority by a very slender tie, the Grassias 
having a rooted aversion to acknowledge the supremacy of the chief of their 
fraternity, although they would, without the same reluctance, have accepted a 
foreign yoke . — ( Macmurdo, Camac, Sgc. ^c. i^c.) 

Arrysir. — A 'town in the Cutch province, 26 miles N. N. E. from Mallia. 
Lat. 23“ 17' N. long. 71“ 3' E. 

Chetrole. — k town in the Cutch province, 20 miles N. by W. from Mallia. 
Lat. 23“ 12' N. long. 70' 48' E. 

Kuntcote. — k town in the province of Cutch, mentioned by Abul Fazel, 
34 miles N. from Mallia. Lat. 23' 20' N. long. 70“ 37' E. In 1816 this strong 
hold suirendered to the detachment under Colonel East, when the fortifications 
wer^. razed to the foundation. ^ 

IptTABiA. — k towm in the province of Cutch, 11 miles N. N. W. ftom 
lipa. Lat. 23“ 5' N. long. 70“ 42' E. / 

Wandia. — A town in the province of Cutch, district of Wagur, situated m 
the north side of the Runn, immediately opposite to M^ia. lat. 23“^ W If, 



OF CUTCH. 


KOVltAH.] 


603 


long. 70® 43' E. Goorjee, uncle to the chief of Wandia, was taken among the 
prisoners at Mallia in 1809, when that den of thieves was stormed by the 
detachment under Colonel Walker, who besides imposed a fine of 75, Odd 
rupees on the chieftain of Wandia. 

Betlah.~A town in the province of Cutch, district of Wagur, situated to- 
wards the northern extremity, 58 miles N. E. from Anjar. Lat. 23® 4 1' N. .long. 
70® 50' E. The site of Beylah is very commanding, and its possession in a 
manner disposes of the fate of Wagur, as far as it is connected with the people 
of Parkur, and the other plunderers of the desert. 

PucHUM.— By this name the large pertion of the Runn, which bounds Cutch 
to the north, and separates it from the sandy desert of Chalchkaun, is known. 
Being less marshy and barren than the rest, it exhibits spots under cultivation, 
and affords pasturage for numerous flocks of different kinds. It is principally 
occupied by the Sumas, a tribe of Sindeans, who are supposed capable of 
furnishing on an emergency 5,000 fighting men. The chief town, or rather 
village, is named Kowrah.— ('Cofowc/ Walker, 8^c.) 

Kowrah.— A town in the Cutch province, surrounded by the immense 
morass named the Runn, 38 miles N. from Bhooj, the capital of Cutch. Lat. 
23® 46! N. long. 69® 44' E. 



THE PROVINCE OF GUJERAT. 

(gujaua rasutua.) 


This large province is situated principally between the 21st and 24tli degrees^ 
of north latitude. On the north it is bounded by the province of Ajmeer ; on \ 
the south by the sea and the province of Aurungabad ; to the east it has Malwah \ 
and Khondesh, and to the west portions of Mooltan, Cutch, and the sea. In 
length it may be estimated at 320 miles, by 180 the average breadth. The 
south-western extremity of this province approaches the shape of a peninsula, 
formed by the gulfs of Cutch and Cambay, and the Indian Ocean. When the 
institutes of Acber were composed by Abul Fazel, in 1582, Gujerat extended 
southward to Damaun, where it touched on Baglana, as appears from the fol- 
lowing delineation extracted from the Ayeen Acberry 
“ The soubah of Gujerat is situated in the second climate. The length fronj,, 
Boorhanpoor to Juggeth (Dwaraca) is 320 coss, and the breadth from Jalore to 
the port of Damaun measures 260 coss, and also from Ider to the port of Cambay 
it is 70 coss broad. On the east lies Khandesh ; on the north Jalore and Ider; 
on the south are the ports of Damaun and Cambayet, and on the west Juggeth. 

In the southern parts of this soubah are many mountains. It is watered by the 
ocean, and the following rivers ; the Sabermatty, the Bateruck, the Mehindry, 
the Nerbudda, the Tuptee, and the Sersooty.” 

“ Javari and bajera are the principal grains cultivated here. _The fields are 
enclosed with hedges of the jekoom tree, which is a strong defence against 
cattle, and makes the country almost impenetrable to an army. This soubah is 
famous for painters, carvers, and handicraftsmen, and there is a great traffic car- 
ried on in precious stones. Silver is brought from Rome (the Turkish empire) 
and Iradt. At first Putten was the segt of government, then Chumpaneer, and 
now Ahme^abad. Gujerat contains nine districts; viz. 1. Ahmedabad ; 2. Putte»; 

3. Nadowt; 4. Behrodeh; 5. Behroatch; 0. Champaneer; 7. Kodebra; 

Soret. These distiicts are subdivided into 198 pergunnahs, of winch 13 etm- 
taioyports. This soubiffi has 67,375 cavaliy and 8,900 infantry” 

Buch wvee ^ statistics of the province during the of dhd i it 



OF GUJERAT. 605 

present the principal territorial and political subdivisions, commencing from the 
west and north, are the following : — 

1. Puttunwara. 6. Waugur. 11. Broach. 

2. Jutwar. 7. Chumpaneer. 12. Naundode. 

3. Gujerat Peninsula. 8. Cherrooter. 13. Surat. 

4. Chowal. 9. Ahmedabad. 14. Attaveesee. 

5. Ederwara. 10. Baroda. 

A considerable portion of the Gujerat province, particularly towards the 
eastern frontier, is very hilly and much covered with jungle, which is rather 
encouraged by the inhabitants, on account of the security it affords against 
invaders. The western boundary, extending along the Banass river, is a level 
arid country in some parts, and in others a low salt swamp, resembling the 
Runn. The interior of the Gujerat peninsula is hilly and rocky, but with spots 
exhibiting strong powers of vegetation, where water is accessible. Within these 
swamps, jungles and hills, dwell many tribes of professed thieves, who prey on 
each other, and, being mostly cavalry, extend their depredations to a great 
distance. 

The ancient and ill-defined limits of Gujerat appear to have included the 
gi'eater part of Khandesh and Malwah. The coasts of the Gujerat peninsula 
are particularly adapted for piracy, as they abound with little creeks and inlets, 
which furnish shelter and concealment from cruizers, on account of the difficult 
navigation. The province is traversed by several noble rivers, such as the 
Nerbuddah, Tuptee, Mahy, Mehindry, and Sabermatty, but in many tracts a 
great scarcity of water is experienced. In the sandy soil north of the Mahy river, 
wliich soon absorbs the periodical rains, the wells are deeper than to the south- 
ward, being from 80 to 100 feet deep. In the adjacent province of Ajmecr they 
are still deeper, the inhabitants frequently penetrating to the depth of 300 feet, 
before they reach a sufficient supply of water. In some particular portions of 
this province, for many square miles not a stone is to be met with, while in 
otliers, but not many, nothing else is to be seen. 

The country of Gujerat generally, notwithstanding its smoothness to the eye, 
is much intersected by ravines, and ground broken up by the rains. Some of 
these chasms are of considerable depth and extent, and during the rains sud- 
denly assume the appearance and volume of rapid rivers, not to be crossed 
without the assistance of rafts or boats. When, this occurs, the natives soon 
estabMsh tem^rary ferries, where passengers are not required to pay until tliey 
have landed, and mendicants and religious devotees of every description are 
wholly exempted. I>uring the hot and dry months the surface of the country 
Ifpeara sand or dust, and in rainy tesson a thick mire. The fields 



THE PROVINCE 


606 

in geheral, except for particular crops, do not require much manure, what they 
use being chiefly the dung of animals and the refuse of the cow-house, to which 
may be added the remains of the coco-nut after the oil has been expressed. The 
natural productions are the same as those of tropical countries generally, among 
which may be enumerated horses, excellent bullocks and draught cattle, coarse 
cloths, saltpetre, hemp, indigo, and opium. With the view of protecting ^e 
Bengal opium monopoly, the supreme government in 1803 prohibited the cultiva- 
tion of the poppy within the British territories in Gujerat, and also endeavoured 
to discourage the importation of opium into Bombay from Gujerat, Malwali, aiul 
the Guicowar’s territories. The plant, l,iowever, had never been much raised in 
Gujerat merely for the manufacture of that narcotic, the province having beel^i 
all along supplied with the drug from the adjacent country of Malwah, and the 
chief ports of importance were Cambay, Jambosier, Broach, and Surat. In the\ 
northern portions of Gujerat the natives indulge to excess in the use of this 
pernicious drug, and the propensity can only be checked by raising the price 
beyond their means of frequent payment. The districts possessed by the 
British in Gujerat are susceptible of great improvements ; but these could not be 
even commenced until the authority of the government was completely esta- 
blished, the acepmplishment of which has been greatly retarded and impeded by 
their local positions, being formerly surrounded by the more extensive ter- 
ritories of the native powers, the Peshwa and Guicowar. 

The Bheels and poor inhabitants of the jungles of Gujerat use the gum which 
exudes from the trunk and branches of the baubul tree as food. These trees 
are very common throughout the wastes in the north-western quarter, and grow 
spontaneously on all unoccupied ground. It is also planted as a fence round 
the villages, and the farm yards are protected by it against the assaults of most 
wild animals ; but it affords but a feeble defence against the fury of the lion, 
which is more common in this province than in most others of India. 

In so vast a province, never completely subdued by any invader, a great 
diversity of population may be expected, and accordingly Gujerat exhibits a 
wonderfully strange variety of sects, castes, and customs. Under each head 
respectively further details of such as are peculiar to any particular portion will 
be found ; we shall here, therefore, only enumerate such as are of more universsd 
af^lkat^on. 

fo seaif^ parts oi the province the Grassias are a numerous class {xTlandholden* 

k aaort of feudal authority over certain portions 

land and triages. Imtlmr the f»iginai source nor precise OEHUmoK^mmit of Utm 
Grasskdaims have ever hem sadiJsetmily traced; and etymdcgkld eJtl^Pie^^ 
has iMeareMMCted as Istde success. Aoeordii^; to sqiM Sindoo pmsdits, 



OF GUJERAT. 


607 

g^rataie b a term signifying a moutliful, bit, or small portion, and equally 
applicable whether the bounty given be voluntary or extorted. The Mahom- 
medaiis on this subject make a bad pun, and say the term b compounded of 
gbyn (without) and rast (right). Others think the phrase originates from the 
.word ghauss (grass,) allusive to the extreme appearance of indigence and distress, 
which a subject sometimes assumes in the presence of his ruler, by standing 
before him with a wisp of grass in his mouth. 

Whatever be the original derivation of the word, these Grassias have not, as 
has been supposed, the slightest claim to the distinction of a tribe or caste, nor 
could they, from the great variety of individuals, ever be formed into one. 
Grassias are of many different tribes of* Hindoos, some are Mahommedans, and 
any person purchasing the claims, or lending money, or farming lands and 
collections, would even, if a Parsee or Christian, come equally under the deno- 
mination of Grassia, which is also extended to all the mercenaries employed by 
the principal to impress terror or inflict injury. The records of antiquity 
furnish no confirmation to the justice of these complicated demands, and the 
Aycen Acberry,* or Institutes of the Emperor Acber, being wholly silent on 
the subject of claims, now so formidable to the public peace and revenue, it may 
be safely concluded that they did not exist at the date of that laborious com- 
pilation', otherwise they would never have been passed unnoticed in a work 
composed for the express purpose of exhibiting the existing state of the 
empire. 

The common and traditionary report of these claims b, that subsequent to 
the decease of the Emperor Acber in 1605, the Gujerat province was so infested 
by the incursions of the Bheels and robbers from the hills and jungles, that the 
Nabobs of Surat, in the reign of Ferokhsere, submitted to a compromise, and 
ceded certain lands to them in each village. These surrenders are said to have 
been denominated “ Vanta” grounds, and exempted from taxation by the Mogul 
government, but afterwards subjected to the payment of a quit-rent by Damajee. 
Guicowar, when he conquered Gujerat. It is also asserted, that depredations 
after this still continuing, the zemindars pursued the same weak policy, and to 
satisfy fresh invaders, and gratify the avarice of the old, agreed to the payment 
of what is now called “ toda,” or ready mdney. 

These vanta lands, or toda gyrauss, have been continually increasing during 
the anardty which so long prevailed in Gujerat ; and by the persevering en- 
croachments from all sides, the corruption of the native revenue officers, and 
the necessities of the landholders, much government property was, in these 
forms, alienated and mortgaged, and every subsequent contingency or imposi- 
vvas consolidated under the general term of toda gyrauss. With die 



608 tHE PROVINCE 

Grassias it has always been an immutable axiom, that a claim once received ' 
never becomes defunct ; and at this day the Balesur pfergunnah pays an item of 
30 rupees, on account of a charitable attention once bestowed by a humane 
Banyan, on the wife of a Grassia, who was suddenly taken in labour at his 
door ; and many other spurious charges are annually collected under an infinite 
variety of names. 

Proprietors of such claims, and more especially of toda gyrauss, seldom 
prosecute them in person, but having retired to some secluded residence, such 
as Rajpeepla and Mandavie, they declare themselves chieftains, and rally 
adventurers round them, to whom they sometimes farm out the Grassia claim, 
or depute them to levy it. Thus qualified, the adventurer enlists a banditti of 
every caste and country, with the intention of making money honestly if circum- 
stances favour him, but at all events of making money. In the course of liis omra- 
tiuns the zemindars are bribed or bullied into new surrenders, the government 
revenue is misappropriated, its subjects mutilated, and the country devasta^d. 
These inroads, vexatious as they are, are perplexed and aggravated by the family 
feuds of the Grassias, whose claims are subdivided into minute shares, and so 
contradictory the one to the other, that the cultivators are wholly uncertain 
which is the true and which the false claimant ; but all are equally compelled 
by these incendaries to propitiate their forbearance by contributions of fopd 
and money. Any proposals made by government to liquidate all these claims 
by payment of a fixed sum annually, has always been rejected, the Grassias 
preferring a fluctuating revenue, with the military pomp it confers, to a certain 
one without it. It occasionally happens also, that these demands lie so long 
dormant, that the extinction of the claimants is concluded, when suddenly an 
heir, real or fictitious, enforces his pretensions by conflagration and murder. 
Indeed so complicated are these claims and so anarchical the system of collection, 
that the Britisdi revenue ofticers have never yet been able to arrange any thing 
approaching to an accurate list of them, from which their justice or injustice 
might be inferred. 

A great proportion of tiiese Grassias who thus infest the British territories are 
residents in the adjoining countries belonging to the Guicowar and Peshvm, and 
especially in the districts of Attaveesy and Rajpeepla, Mandwie north of the 
Nerbuddah, Meagam wd Ahmode between that stream and the Mahy, and Man- 
dowee on the Tupty. On the rugged margins of all rivers in Gujerat, many 
Grassias reside in a kind of independence, and also all ov^ the Gujetat peninsula, 
usually denominated Catty war by the natives. Criminals from the plains % to 
tlieir haunts for refuge, and receive the names of Grassias, Catties, Coolies, 
Bheels, and Mewassies, but are in reality all thieves, and supposed to ammnt 



OF GUJERAT. 609 

to one half of the population nordi of the Mahy river. In 1814 the Bombay 
governnumt was endeavouring to introduce an arrangement for paying the Grassia 
daims from the public treasury, to prevent the crimes and disorders committed 
under the plea of levying those claims. A commencement, and some progress 
had been made in the Surat district which was the most obnoxious to these 
ravages. 

Of all the plunderers who infest Gujerat the most bloody and untameable are 
the Coolies, who, however, present different characters in different districts, the 
most barbarous being in the vicinity of the Runn, or in the neighbourhood of the 
Mahy river. These are taught to despise every approach to civilization, and the 
appellation riiey bestow on a man decently dressed is that of a pimp to a brothel. 
In order to procure respect they stain their apparel with charcoal pounded and 
mixed with oil, and their charons (priests or bards), and other influential persons, 
excel the laity in filthiness. With this caste cleanliness is indicative of cowardice. 
These customs are said to have originated with the Naroda, or degraded Rajpoots, 
who form a considerable portion of the population. However rich, a Naroda 
never dresses better than the lowest of his caste. The Portugueze at an early 
period used the name of Coolie as a term of reproach, and from them it has 
descended to the English. 

The description of men named Bhatts, or Bharotts, abound more in Gujerat 
than in any other of the provinces of India. Some of them cultivate the land, 
but the greater number are recorders of births and deaths, and beggars or itine* 
rant bards, in which last capacity they are also frequently traders. Some of this 
caste stand security for the public revenue, and guarantee the observance of 
agreements and awards. They are a singularly obstinate race, and when pressed 
for money for which they have become security, sometimes sacrifice their own 
lives, but more frequently put to death some aged female or a child of their 
family, in the presence of the person who caused them to break their word. A 
Bhatt, however, will never become security for a person of whom he knows 
nothing. Between the security and his principal there generally exists a bond of 
union founded on the experience of their mutual necessity to, each other, and the 
intimate knowledge possessed by the Bhatt of the resources and disposition of 
his client enables him fully to appreciate the risk he is exposed to. Under a 
native ruler, Bhatts are a link which connects the Mewassy portion of the society 
with the government, every Grassia, Coolie and Bheel having his Bhatt, who 
derives subsistence or opulence from a participation in the revenue of lus patron, 
•ad vthose intervention appears calculated to produce salutary influence on 
nuads odloiis to other impressums. These Bhatts are rewarded by a small per 
centi^ cm the amount of tiie revenues for which they have become security, and 

vpu I. 4 I 



610 TfiB PROVINCE 

for the consequent protection it affords against the imfM»tttQitie8 of the inliHiox' 
agents of government, their persons being regarded as sacred, and their influence 
very great over the superstitious minds of the natives. 

The Charons in Gujerat are a sect of Hindoos allied in manners and customs 
with the Bhatts. They aje often possessed of large droves of carriage cattle, by 
means of which they carry on a distant inland traffic in grain and other articles. 
Travellers in the wildest parts of Gujerat are protected by Brahmins and Chanms 
hired for the purpose. When a band of predatory horse appears, these sacred 
persons take an oath to die by their own hands in case their proteg^ is pillaged, 
and in such veneration are they held by these superstitious thieves, that in almost 
every ’case this threat is found effectually to restrain them. | 

Among those who benefited most by the lax system of government mich 
followed the death of Aurengzebe were the religious orders, such as Ibe Bhat~.a\and 
Charons, who, however, never enjoyed or exercised any of the pastoral influ^ce 
of the sacerdotal class. The legality of their acquisitions was never inquired 
into, from the horror of self immolation, which they threatened if it were 
attempted. The system of Bhatt agency iu revenue matters, strongly marked 
the distrust subsisting between the Maharatta government and its subjects. If 
the one demairded of the Mewassies Bhatt security for the payment of the revenue 
and peaceable conduct, the other required a similar security from the ruling 
power against its own oppression and extortion. The instrumentality of the 
Bhatts was consequently a useful and economical expedient to a feeble govern- 
ment, incapable by legitimate means of controuling and gradually civilizing its 
turbulent subjects, but was a clumsy machinery which impeded the progress of 
a strong one. The Mewassies from the time of the conquest received the most 
injurious treatment from the Maharattas, who, having driven them to desperation, 
believed it impossible to reclaim them, and in reality treated the Grassias, Coo- 
lies, and Bheels like outcasts from society, or beasts of the field. But on the 
substitution of a government solicitous for the welfare of its subjects, and desirous 
of elevating these classes from a state of degradation to their pr(^er station in 
the scale of human beings, a different result took place, and the Mewassies never 
demanded security from the British government against its own oppression, being 
apprehensive of none. The annals, also, of all native history, from the Ma- 
hommedan conquest, prove the inefficacy of severity, whether exercised by means 
of treachery, or by brute force, in reclaiming their evil propensities. In die 
more early stage of the British establishment in Gujerat, policy dictated the pro- 
priety of having recourse to every expedient for checking and keeping in order 
the unruly trilws, until such time as experience of its justice and energy should 
convince diem, that lull lelirace might be placed oh dm first, and find the hud 



OFGUJERAT. , 611 

was not to be xeristed with impunity. That period having arrivedt and the 
Bombay presidency, ^ving long been convinced of the inefficacy of the Bhatt 
system as fm instrument of jurisprudence, determined entirely to supersede their 
agency as securities within the limits of the British territories, which accordingly 
todk place in 1817. 

In Gujerat, as in other parts of Hindostan Proper, there are a race of people 
Ciffiled Ux^greas, whose profession is that of money carriers, which is done by 
concealing it m their quilted clothes. Although miserably poor, one of them 
may be trusted with the value of 1000 rupees to carry many miles off, merely on 
the responsibility of his mirdha, or superior, who frequently is not richer than the 
other. They are of all castes, and in general well armed and athletic. When 
performing distant joumies they arrange themselves into parties, and fight with 
desperation to defend a property, for which their recompense is a mere subsist- 
ence. There is another set in the northern and western tracts named Puggies, 
from their extraordinary expertness in tracing a thief by his steps. When 
necessary, this must be resorted to early in the morning, before the people have 
been moving about, in which event, such is their dexterity, that they seldom fail 
in pointing out the village where the thief has taken refuge. 

The Dheras of this province are a caste similar to the Mhor of the Deccan, and 
the Pariars of Malabar. Their employment is to carry filth of every description 
out of the roads and villages, and from their immediate vicinity. They scrape 
bare the bones of every animal that dies within their limits, and share out the 
flesh, which they cook in various ways and feed upon ; the hide they sell to the 
caste of Mangs for one, two, or three rupees, according to the animal it belonged 
to. They are also obliged by ancient custom to serve the state and travellers as 
carriers of baggage to the nearest village from their own. They are guilty of 
numberless petty thefts, and much addicted to intoxication, when they can pro- 
cure the requisites. At Jumbosier, in 1806, a Dhera was blown from a gun for 
poisoning a number of bullocks and other cattle for the sake of their skins. This 
caste is more employed by the British than is agreeable to the purer classes of 
Hindoos, who are contaminated by their vicinity. The gooroos, or priests, of 
the Dheras, are named Garoodas, and cook and devour carrion like the rest of 
the tribe. Their most appropriate duties are the solemnizing of marriages and 
ftmeral obsequies among their own caste. On account of their extreme degra- 
dation they dare not read the Vedas nor learn Sanscrit. They have abridgements 
^ the mythological stories of tlie Purans, written in the vernacular idiom on rolls 
of paper, ornamented with rude figures of the heroes of Ramayuna, by the exhi- 
bition of whitffi, and the muttering of some charm, they pretend to cure diseases. 
In the Gujerat viBages it is the custom to make the Dheras, Halalkhores, Bhun- 



THE PROVINCE 


6B 

geas who eat carrion, and Bheels who kill innocent animals, to UvebjrtiwnuidTes 
in huts apart from the rest of the inhabitants. The washermen are also conn* 
dered so cruel, on account of the numerous deaths they involuntarily occaskm to 
the animalculse in the process of washing, that Uiey are likewise classed amm^ 
the seven degraded or excluded professions. 

In this quarter of India the term Koonbee is given to the pure Sudra, or fourUi 
caste, whatever his occupation be, but who, in Gujerat, is generally a cultivator. 
In the Deccan this title distinguishes the cultivator from one who wears arms, 
and prefers being called a Maharatta. They mostly observe the Braltminical 
forms of worship; but the Gujeratee Koonbees in their diet abstain from all flesh 
and fish ; whereas the Maharattas eat freely of mutton, poultry, fish, gam^, and 
every animal fit for food, except the cow species. A Gujerat Koonbee will not 
willingly kill any animal, not even the most venemous snake. According to 
tradition the ancestors of the Koonbees, who are now the most numerou8\ and 
industrious portion of the agricultural peasantry, were emigrants from Aj^eer 
and Hindustan Proper. They hold portions of government land, and are called 
Patels, in contradistinction to the Grassias. There are here three tribes of 
Koonbees, named Lewa, Kudja, and Aijanna. Formerly the Mahommedans of 
Gujerat engaged but little in agriculture or manufactures, addicting themselves 
mostly to traffic and the warlike professions ; but since the extension of the 
British influence in the province, the latter trade has so much declined, that they 
are gradually resorting to the pacific arts of husbandry-. 

The different Nyat, or families of Brahmins, established in Gujerat, are 84, 
called after the places of their nativity or inheritance. Each of them has several 
subdivisions, the members of which, although on an equality, are not permitted 
to intermarry, the distinctions being almost innumerable. 

The Vaneeya are a numerous tribe of Hindoos in Gujerat, named Banyans by 
the English, and are separated into many sub-divisions, besides the Awucks, 
or seceders, from the Brahminical doctrines. They are all of them merchants 
and traffickers, and many of them travel to parts very remote from India, where 
they remain from one to ten years, after which they reti^ to their wives and 
children. Many also finally settle in the towns of foreign countries, where their de> 
scendants continue to speak and write the Gujerattee tongue> which may be pro- 
nounced the grand mercantile langut^ of Indian marts. The Gujerat dialect is 
very nearly allied to the Hindi, while the character in which it is written Con- 
hums almost exactly to the vulgar Nagari. On examining a translation of tiie 
Lord’s Prayer into the Gujaraftee, the missionaries discovered that of 32 words 
no less than 28 were the same as in the Bengalese and Hindostany spedmeiui. 

The sect of Jains are hmre more numerous than in any nS the cont^iuomi pro- 



OF GUJERAT. 


613 

viace»» and possess many handsome temples adorned with well wrought images 
of marble, spars and various metals. Their chief deity, of the 24 which they 
have altogetiter, is worshipped as in other parts of India under the name of 
Parswanatha. Among the Brahminical Hindoos, the adherents of Siva mark 
their forehe»ls horizontally, and those of Vishnu perpendicularly, which shox^ld 
be renewed every morning, and if attainable by a Brahmin. At the visits of 
the Rajpoots, Grassias, and other tribes of this province, opium is always pre* 
smited in some form, solid or liquid, and swallowed by the guests in qaantkies 
that would destroy mi European. The natives of Gujerat, especially of the 
Rajpoot castes, when driven to desperation, dress in yellow clothes, which is a 
signal of despair and being reduced ta the last extremity. The females here are 
frequently known to burn themselves with husbands, with whom they have 
never cohabited, and with those who have ill treated them, as well as the 
reverse, a mistaken sense of what they conceive to be their duty actuating 
diem, independent of affection. Diseases and ailments which cannot readily be 
accounted for, are attributed to the malignant influence of witches’ glances ; 
hence in the Coolie and Rajpoot communities many women are seen without 
their noses, this mutilation being supposed effectual in destroying the power. 

Besides its native hordes and castes Gujerat (with Bombay) contains nearly 
all the Parsees, or fire-worshippers, to be found in the continent of India, the 
feeble remains of the once predominant religion of the Magi. According to the 
accounts which the learned of the modem Parsees give of their own origin, 
it appears that, after the Mahommedan religion was promulgated in Arabia, 
and began to pervade Persia, the ancestors of the Indo-Parsees retired to 
the mountains, where they continued until the overthrow of the Persian mo- 
narchy, and the death of Yezdijird, the last sovereign. Finding the religion 
of their native country wholly overthrown, and themselves outlaws, they wan- 
dered towards the port of Ormus, then governed by a branch of the old royal 
famil y, where they resided 15 years, and where they acquired the art of ship- 
building, for which they are still justly celebrated, and also some practical know- 
ledge of navigation. 

At the expiration of the above period they quitted Ormus, and proceeded to 
the island of Diu, where they sojourned 19 years, when finding it too small for 
their increasing numbers, they embarked for Gujerat, where they anchored at a 
town Seyjan, then governed by Jadu Rana, and near to a point of lan<^ 

sdn named St. John by European mariners. After some negociation with this 
prince they were allowed to land, on condition that they disarmed, and assumed 
the Hindoo dress, forms of marris^e, and language. In this hospitable land 
^y first lighted up the Atish Beharam, or sacred fire, and remained stationary 



THE PROVINCE 


614 

for several hundred years ; but afterwards many migrated finmi Urdwanra, the 
site of the holy flame, and with their families settled at Nowsaiee, Veriou, Oe» 
laseer, Bjroach, and Cambay. Their subsequent establishmaat at Surat and 
Bombay, and rapid increase of numbers, belong to a more recent era. 

After their voluntary dispersion ifrom the Seyjan territories, Mahmood Begra, 
Suftan of Ahmedabad, an usurper and bigot, about A. D. 1450, detached 
an army of 30,000 men to levy tribute fr^m the Seyjan chief. The latter 
requested assistance from the Parsees, who joined him to the number of 1400, 
and a bloody battle was fought, in which the Mahommedans were worsted ; but 
returning with reinforcements the Seyjan Raja was compelled to pay tribute, 
and acknowledge the paramount authority of the Ahmedabad sultan. This 
conflict appears to have beeh the first and last of their battles, and the omy 
instance, during a residence' of 1000 years, in which they have intermeddled 
with politics. Since then the Parsees have resided in larger or smaller com* 
munities, dispersed in cities and villages along the coast of India, from Diu tb 
Bombay, and although very enterprising traders, embarking frequently on distant 
and perilous voyages, few settle out of their own country, by which term they 
mean the space above defined, and within which limits they have accumulated 
to the number of about 150,000 families. 

The modem Parsees are divided into two grand classes, the Mobid or clerical, 
and the Behdeen or laity. Mobids may marry a Behdeen female ; but Behdeens 
cannot take wives from Mobid families. The Parsees often train up other 
people’s children of both sexes, and admit them to the privileges of the Behdeen 
tribe ; and the illegitimate offspring of Parsee men by native women are also 
admitted into their caste. Nor do they reject proselytes even when grown up, if 
their character be such as to inspire a confidence that they will scrupulously 
observe the laws of Zoroaster. The latter species of adoptions are rare, but the 
former not unfrequent, and account for the different shades of complexion. The 
Parsee females have long maintained an unspotted character for chastity and 
superior continence, which may be accounted for from their being placed by 
their religious tenets (6th article) on an equality with the men. When a 
betrothed g^ri dies, the guardians of the boy who has thus lost his bride, must 
took out for a girl who in a similar manner has been deprived of her.mtettded 
husband i and among adults widowers ought only to wed with widows. A 
widow tmder forty is at liberty to marry again. like the Hindoos the Parsees 
betroth thmr children between thfiages of four and nine years; dm sol^raniaa- 
turn of the marriage takes place when cmivenient to dm parties, but wkiln dm 
ninth year of the |^’s age. 

After death a dog is procured to watch the eor|»e finru dmc, ^ Parsees 



OFQUIERAT. 615 

nuMt fin^y in aerial evil beings visible to the canine species, and 
esteem those dogs quickest of perception that have light brown eye-brows. 
From this quality, which they suppose inherent, they account for the dismal 
howl of dogs at night, which they affirm drives the hoverii^ devils from their 
house-tops, and they say that the dogp exert a less frightful effort when their 
barking b merely directed against thieves. The Parsees have an extreme 
objection to touch a dead hare, but not a living one, and this dblike extends fo 
iril other dead animals, although not so vehemently. They do not keep registers 
of thdr own numbers, which from their pacific and industrious habits must be 
rapidly on the increase. The places where they are at present collected in 
greatest bodies are Diu, Cambay, Brohch, Oclaseer, Hansoot, Veriou, Surat, 
Nowsarry, Damaun, Bombay, and Urdwarra, the last mentioned being still the 
chief residence of the Parsee priests, and the depository of their sacred fire 
brought with them from Persia. In their original country the greatest number 
of Guebres, or fire-worshippers*, are collected in the city of Yezd, situated 
about 230 miles S. £. from Ispahan, where they are said to occupy about 4000 
houses. They are very industrious, but greatly oppressed by the modem 
Persian governments, and taxed at 20 piasters per head, besides suffering 
many other extortions. 

Along with the Hindoo dress they adopted many of their customs, forgot 
their own language, and took to that of their wives, the Gujerattee, scarcely an 
individual of a thousand being able to speak any thing else. Their restrictions 
as to diet have the appearance of being formed on the Hindoo model, as also 
their betrothing and marriages. At present the young men of good families are 
taught to read and write English, but very few think of studying Persian, or of 
iiiylring researches into the ancient history of their nation. The opulent are 
merchants, ship-owners, and land-holders ; the lower classes are shop-keepers, 
and exercise such mechanic arts as are not connected with fire. On thb 
account there are neither silversmiths nor any workers of metals among them, 
and the use of fire-arms bring repugnant to their doctrines, the professions of 
soldier and sailor are rejected. The brik of the Parsee population are weavers 
husbandmen, and cultivators of the date ; palmira and mowah, and distillers 
and venders of their produce at the sea-ports ; many also are ship and house 
carpenters. In Bombay they enter into the service of Europeans, as dobashes, 
m interpreters, and domestic servants. 

The clergy a»d their descendants are very numerous, and are distmguiriied 
by wearing white turbans. Except those, however, who are more especially 
Iriected fiwr their religious ceremonies, they follow all kinds of occupations 
^riihoiit any distinction of caste. Many of the Mobids. or sacerdotal class, can 



THE PROVINCE 


616 

read and write what they call the Zend, cr Pehlavi character, snflkiratly weU 
to answer the purpose of their solemnities ; but their knowledge seldom pene- 
trates deeper, nor are the Parsees generally addicted to smy kind of literature, 
their exertions being wholly directed to the pursuits of commerce. On the 
death of a Behdeen, or one of the laity, the number of adult Mobids (clerical) 
males in the settlement may be known, as they all make their appearance, and 
receive a shirt or other piece of apparel from the heir, who is also under the 
necessity of giving them a feast in order to fill their stomachs. From these 
entertainments it was inferred, that in 1806, there were 1600 Mobids in Surat 
arrived at man’s age ; the Behdeens were supposed to exceed 12,000. By a 
census taken at Broach in 1807, it was* found there were 3101 souls old md 
young, dark and fair, of Mobid and Behdeen Parsees in that town and its 
suburbs. A recent innovation respecting die commencement of the Parsee nm 
year, has separated this ancient and long united people into two sects ; the oiw 
celebrating the festival of the new year a month before the other, which causes 
their religious ceremonies and festivals to happen at different periods of the 
year. 

The province of Gujerat enjoyed a much more flourishing commerce, even 
during the most convulsed periods of the Mogul government, than it has ever 
done since. The chief exports are cotton, piece goods, and grain, and the 
principal trade is with Bombay. The imports consist mostly of sugar, raw silk, 
pepper, coco nuts, cochineal, and woollens, and absorb a great deal of bullion. 
The Surat manufactures have long been famous for their cheapness and excellent 
quality. Almost all castes of this province (Brahmins and Banyans excepted) 
follow the occupation of the loom occasionally, which employs a great, number 
of the more industrious of the lower classes. In all the larger towns are to be 
found that remarkable race of men named the Boras, who, although Mahom- 
medans in religion, are Jews in features, manners, and genius. They form 
every where a distinct community, and are every where noted for their address 
in bargaining, minute thrift, and constant attention to lucre ; but they profess 
total uncertainty of their own origin. Boorhanpoor in Khandesh is the head 
quarters of this singular sect, and the residence of their moullah, or high priest ; 
but the individuals are found stra|^ling all over Gujerat, and the adjacent 
provinces as itinerant pedlers. 

It is a custom in the Gujerat province, when a merchant finds himsdif fhUin^, 
or actuaSy firiledf to set up a blarihg hmp in lus shop, house, or <Hfice, and then 
abscond untU his mm^tors have examined lus effects and received a disclosare of. 
his pr(^>er^. IJnt^his. tmdilQii have acquitted h^ he does nqt wei^ the tail 
lus wa»t-clodi hanging down, as is usuid, hut tucks it up. Persttw who act 



OF OOJERAT. 617 

ikwt ia tins, to as notmudi to injure their (^editors* are greatly esteemed; and 
hare so fiequendy been remariEed as subsequently prosperous, that Hindoo 
merchants Imve b^ known to set up a light (become bankrupt) without any 
real necessity, in hopes of good fortune afterwards. 

The principal towns in this province are Surat, Ahmedabad, Broach, Cambay, 
Qogo, Bhovmuggur, Chumpaneer, and Junaghur. It b difficult to estimate the 
number of inhabitants of a country where the extremes of population and deso- 
hition are to be found. Surat and its vicinity exemplify the first, and the north 
western districts the second. For the sake of security, the great body of the 
natives of Gujerat do not live in single sequestered houses, but in assemblages 
of tihem ; in Malabar on the contrary every Hindoo has a distinct or distant 
dwelling. A Gujerat village is often visited by travelling comedians, who exhibit 
puppet shows and act historical plays. They are also occasionally frequented 
by musicians, dancing girls, singing men and women, wrestlers, and very expert 
jugglers, dancing bears, trickish goats, and monkies. 

Fortifications were formerly very numerous in Gujerat, and still continue 
in the more savage and remote quarters, but wherever the British influence 
extends they are fast crumbling to decay. A few years ago female infanticide 
prevailed among the tribe of Jahrejahs, of which are the principal chieftains of 
the Gujerat peninsula, such as the Jam of Noanagur, the Rajas of Wadman, of 
Goundel, and many others. All these leaders, through the exertions of Mr. 
Duncan, the late governor of Bombay, and Colonel Walker, in 1807, were 
induced to enter into engagements renouncing the inhuman practice, which was 
usually perpetrated by drowning the infant in a bowl of milk as soon as bom ; 
but it is suspected they have not adhered very strictly to their agreement. The 
whole number of inhabitants in this vast province are pobably much under* 
rated at six millions, in the proportion of one Mahommedan to ten Hindoos. 

Another crime rather peculiar to the province is known to the British courts 
of justice by the name of “ Jhansa.” By Jhansa is meant the writing of threat- 
ening letters, destroying gardens and plantations, and burning stacks to enforce 
a compUance with some unjust demand. These offences were not formerly 
confln 4 ^ to the Grassias ; they were resorted to in villt^e feuds ; even by tlie 
patds or heads of villages, as also by persons having dealings' with the patels 
and cultivators, for the recovery of bad debts ; but since the regular administra- 
tion of justice, this absurd mode of obtaining redress, is less resorted to in the 
BritiBh districts, where it has also assumed a milder character, Jhansa being 
now seldom attended, as formerly, with acts of personal outrage and violence. 

The Mahy Kenta Coolies are so named owing to their coming from the banks 
of the Ifaby river. These persons are thieves by profiession, and also very 

f01» I. 4 X 



THE PROVmCB 


618 

ingenbus, active, and courageouB. Sometimea they infest the hig^vvaya, and 
intercept families and individuals proceeding to distant pilgrimages and rdigkMit 
fairs. When the season is favourable they visit Surat and other large dtiei» 
where the harvest of their industry is considerable, although from the increasing 
vigilanoe and efficiency of the British police, the exercise of their vocation is 
now attmded with more difficulty and ^Uuo^r. 

There are many remarkable wells and watering places in Gujerat, particularly 
one n^ Baroda, which is said to have cost nine lacks of rupees ; and anotlMV 
atVadwa, in the vicinity of Cambay, which, from the inscription, appears to 
have been erected in 1482. Smoking^tobacco is a very universal practice among 
Hin doo males (Br ahmins excepted, who take snuff freely) and MahommedanS of 
both sexes, throughout Gujerat. A begah of land, planted with tobacco, rear 
Broach, yields a net revenue to government of 20 rupees, on an average. iW 
province has long been femous for its excellent breed of cattle, especially mo 
bullocks, which are reckoned the strongest, swiftest, and handsomest of ludia.\ 

It is a common belief in Gujerat, that the province was originally peopled by 
the rude castes which still exist, and are known under the names of Coolies and 
Bheels, but there is neither record nor tradition regarding the nature of their 
religion or government, while subsisting in thdr primeval state. In the town oif 
Rajpeepla, the Rajpoot successor is still formally invested by a femily of Bheels, 
called Koobhal, or Kootel, descended from their original chieftains. Subsequent 
to this era, there is reason to suppose that the space of country, from the gulf of 
Cutch to the Concan, composed one great nation, speaking and writing the same 
language, the Gujerattee. The names at present affixed to the subdivisions of 
this province, are entirely modem, and can be traced to some, incident or cir- 
cumstance of their history. At a more recent period, the Rajpoots acquired 
the ascendancy, and the most powerful chief of that race resided at Anhulvada 
(named Nehrwalla and Puttun in the maps), situated on the northern frontier. 
According to traditions handed down among the Rajpoot tribes, they do not 
appear to have been aborigines, but milita^ adventurers who entered the prt^ 
vince at different periods, and there established themselves ; they consequently 
have no ancient claim to the country, and even now continue to be opposed by 
the primitive inhabitants. Three Rajpoot dynasties are said to have occupied the 
throne of Anhulvada; the Chowra, the Soolunkerj and the Vagd^eela; from 
which, as may be expected, many of the modem Grassia femilies cl ai m de- 
scent. ^ 

We learn hm Abul Faxel, ^t Gujerat wtt first invaded by Mahmood 
Ghizni, about A. B. 1025, who subverted the throne of its native prince, named 
Jamund, and plsadeiedHelurwallib, his capital. After the es t a Wiahm e at cf the 



07 QOJBRAT. 619 

Oelhi torndgiity, iSbk prownce remain^ for many yaaia lubordinate to the 
Patan emperon ; bat ha Hm 16th centary became again independent, under a 
dynasty of lUijpoot piinoea converted to the Mahommedan religion, who re- 
moved the seat of gOTemment to Ahmedabad, and influenced many of the 
natives to embrace their newly adopted faith. In 1672, in the reign of the 
Emperor Acber, this race of princes was overthrown, and the province subju- 
gated ; but during the period of its independence, it had greatly flourished as a 
maritime and commercial state, and when the Portugueze first visited Malacca, 
they found a regular intm‘cource established between Gujerat and that port. 

After the death of Aurengzebe in 1707, this province was at an early period 
overrun by hordes of Maharatta depredators, and, about A. D. 1724, was finally 
severed from the Mogul throne, wMch never afterwards recovered its authority. 
At present, the more civilized and cultivated parts are possessed by the British, 
the Guicowar, and (until recently) the Peshwa. The British terntories occupy 
a considerable tract of country on both sides of the gulf of Cambay, including ftie 
populous cities of Surat, Broach, Gogo, Cambay, and Bhownugger. Several of the 
Peshwa’s districts were intermingled with those of the British, and approached 
within a few miles of Surat ; these he was permitted to retain as a particular 
ftvour when the treaty of Bassein was concluded. The sea-coast, from the gulf 
of Cambay to that of Cutch, is occupied by different petty native chiefs, some 
tributary to the Guicowar, and others independent ; but now, much against their 
in filmftrinim , restrained from piracy by the predominance of the British power 
by sea and land. With a view to the coercion of these rapacious tribes, it be- 
came advisable on various grounds of political expediency, to maintain perma- 
nently an advanced position on iht western side of Gujerat ; but the Mooluek 
Seri8hta,.or conventional law of this quarter, consisting of a variety of tributary 
thou^ internally independent states, would in strict justice prevent the British 
or Gfdcowar forces from establishing such a military station without their con- 
sent, unless for the temporary preservation oi the public peace. The progress 
of events soon rendered the adoption (4 the measure indispensable, and a 
detachment firom the Bombay army was canftmed at Palyad, to maintain tran- 
quillity and overawe the turbulent chieftains of the neighbouiheod. Since that 
period, with a few triflmg ezeeptioM, the Britirii portion of tiie Gujerat pro- 
vince has been disturbed by no hostile attacks from without, or dissensions 
within ; but in 181 1, the annual fell of rain having failed in Marwar, where every 
trace of vegetation disappeared, the locusts made their way into the north-west 
diriiion of Gqjerat, named Putton, and firom thence scour^ the Gujerat Pmun- 
Infinite devastation. Proceeding onward, a detachment of these 

4x2 



630 THE PROVINCE [keebvdda. 

destractive iiuecto appeared so far south as the city of Broach, on the Nerbud- 
da, beyond which point locusts were never known to extend. By the e<M- 
mencement of 1812, these desolators had nearly disappeared ; bat both in that 
and the succeeding year, a scarcity, almost amounting to a ftmine, prevailed 
throyghottt the province. 

In 1817, Bahadur and Saolee, pergunnahs situated inconveniently near to 
Baroda, were exchanged for the interest held by the Guicowar in Ahmedabad, 
independent of the farm. The mutual exchanges with the Baroda government 
were equivalent to 578,848 rupees. Besides the above, the British ceded half 
the town of Pitlaud for the Guicowar's share of Omrut, by which arrangement 
the possessions of both were consolidated' and the frontier of the British pels* 
sessions in Gujerat became for the first time susceptible of definition. At 
present, the pmrgunnahs of Bhownuggur, Gogo, and Sehoree, are the mo^ 
southerly ; a line drawn thence through Ranpoor to Patree, on the lesser Runni 
and eastward fiom Patree through Veerungur, Ahmedabad, and Kuppurwunje 
to Balasinore and Veerpoor on the Mahy, forms the western and northern 
boundary ; the Mahy bounds the east ; the whole including an area tolerably 
well defined of about 11,000 square miles. 

The northern and western quarters, and the centre of the Gujerat peninsula, 
have only been recently explored, and exhibit a state of society, which probably 
at a remote period existed all over Hindostan. The number of societies of 
armed and sanguinary thieves, by birth and profession, in this region, is searcely 
credible, and excites a surprise, tlmt, thinly as the inhabitants are scattered over 
the wilder parts, any popt^tion at all should remain. Within the districts ac* 
quired by the East India Company, all barbarous practices have either been 
abolished, or are gradually disappearing; but in the northern and western 
quarters they still prevail in their utmost perfection of cruelty and cunnii^. 
— (Drummond, Public MS. Documents, Crow, JBourchkr, Walker, Maemtado, 
James Forbes, Pope, Warden, Sgc. <§•<?. 8^0.) 

Nebbudda Rivee (Narmada, rendering a^^—This river has its source at 
Omercuntuc, in the province of Gundwana, close to that of' the Sone. Lat. 
22* 54' N. long. 82* Ky £ After ascending a table land at Omercuntuc, a Hin- 
doo temple is found nearly in the centre of it, where the Nerbudda rises firom 
a small well, and glides along the surface of the highland, until reaching the 
west end it is precipitated into Mundlah. The fall is described by the natives 
.as very great, and they asse^ that at the foot of the table land its bed 
becomes a considerable expanse ; and being joined by otiher streams, it as- 
sumes the volume of a riverl Frias hence its course is nearly due west, with 



•AVBKEMUTTT.] OF GUJERAT. 621 

fewer cunratures than most Indian rivers, passing through part of Gundwana, 
Khandesh, Malwah, and Gujerat ; in which last province from Zinore to Chan- 
dode the stream is reckoned peculiarly holy, a^d much resorted to for the 
pmposM of ablution. Including the windings, the whole length of the course 
may be estimated at 700 miles ; and by the Maharattas in the early stages of 
their power, it was customary to ford it at Bowapoor. Salgrams, or sacred 
pebbles, are found in this river near Oncar Mandatta, which are considered as 
types of Siva, and are called Ban Ling. 

Hie name of Deccan was formerly applied by Hindoo geographers to the 
whole of those countries which are situated to the south of the Nerbudda, but 
the term Deccan now signifies in Hindbstan, the countries between the Ner* 
budda and Krishna. The era of Vicramaditya, or the Sumbut, is in use north 
of the Nerbudda ; and that of S^a, or Salivahana, south of that river. There 
is a difference of 135 years between the two eras, that of Vicramaditya exceed- 
ing the other by the length of time above specified. This river is also occa- 
sionally named the Reva, but the country about Omercuntuc has never yet been 
explored by any European traveller ; ^ event very desirable, as tending to- 
wards the completion of the geography of Hindostan. — (Blunts Colebrooke, 
Wilki, Walker, Forbes, S^c. &;c.) 

Tuptee (Tapati ). — This river has its source in the province of Gundwana, 
near the village of Batool, among the Injardy hills, from whence it pursues a 
westerly direction through the provinces of Khandesh and Gujerat, until it joins 
the sea about 20 miles below Surat. The whole course, which is very serpen- 
tine) and through a fertile country producing much of the cotton exported from 
Surat and Bombay, may be estimated, including the windings, at 460 miles. 
The shoals crossing the mouths of the Tuptee and Nerbudda, are known to the 
Gujeratties by the names of Shorut and Dejbharoo. The first Mahommedan 
army that crossed the mountains, south of the Tuptee, was led, A. D. 1293, by 
Allah ud Deen, nephew and successor of Feroze, the reigning sovereign of 
Delhi.*— Drummond, \2th Better, Sgc. ^c.) 

Maht Riveb (or Myhi ). — This river rises amongst the hills of Malwah, 
district of Mandow, not far from the source of the Chumbul, from whence it 
first proceeds to the north, but afterwards sweeps round to the S. W. where it 
fells into the gulf of Cambay, in the district of Broach, having performed a 
course, including the windings, of about 380 miles. Although it flows through 
so oonsidfrabi** an extent of country, the mass of its waters never attain to any 
inagnitude. 

SAnBBBMVTTT RzvxB.— This river issues from the Dhaubur Lake. 20 miles 



m THB PHOTmCE [siunrAi. 

Qorth of Doongorpoor, and from thence flowa hi taoatlMily diraethm towudi 
the gulf of Cambay, passing ^hmedabad on ita route. Indudinf the arhidiaga 
its course may be estimated at 200 miles. 

Banass' lltvER The source of this river is in Bie pfovinee c( 

Ajjneer, but the exact spot has never been ascertained. In passing that 

country, it attains a considerable bulk, and even when pursuing its comae 
from Deesa through the Mehwas, its size is not insignificant, but it afterwards 
loses itself in the Kakreze, and by the time it reaches Rahdunpoor, is reduced 
from various causes to a small stream. Three miles below Rahdunpoor, the bed 
of the river is about half a mile in breadth, but not more than 20 yards of ^this 
space in the dry season contains watef . The current at this period is rdther 
rapid, and about two feet and a half deep ; the water of an excellent quauty. 
In this part of its course the banks are nearly on a level with the surroundmg 
country, which is inundated during the rains to the extent of two miles. About 
25 miles below Rahdunpoor it is lost in the great salt morass named the Runn. 
*— {■ Mamurdo, ^c.) 

Mehwas. — The term Mehwas ought only to be applied to that portion of the 
Gujerat province named the Kakreze, but of late years, Theraud and both the 
Neyers have been included in the denomination, owing to the disorderly state of 
the society. The word Mehwas signifies the residence of thieves, but it is now 
used to designate a country through which it is difficult to pass, firom what- 
ever cause. The villages in this tract greatly resemble each other. There are 
a few tiled houses, but the majority are in the shape of & bee-hive, thatched, 
and exhibit a miserable appearance both within and without. Besides the 
ftunily, it usually affords shelter to a horse and a couple ci bullocks or cows. 

In this very turbulent region, any chief who can muster 20 horsemen, claims 
and extorts a tribute fi;om villages belonging to a power, on which he acknow- 
ledges himself to be dependent, and to which he pays tribute. Theraud levies 
contributions from villages in the Sachore district of Joudpoor, fium Wow, and 
from many villages in the Rahdunpoor territories. Merchants, travelling in the 
Mehwas, pay stated sums of money to particular Coolies," who ensure their 
safety as &r as a certain point, but beyond that limit plunder immediately. 
Jamajee, of Therah, about 50 years ago, resolved to build small fortified poito 
to check the Mehwas, but they were found unavailing. The Rajpoots here have 
nearly become Mahommedans ; they have adopted so many customs peculiar to 
timffbllowters of the prophet, Thoir attendants are chiefly Jlbhommedans, and 
Hke tile Jahiqjahs of Cutch, they make no peruple in opting what has be«i 
oMced by a Mahommedan, or even of eating with hm^jMeeiwftih, 



OF GUJERAT. 




PUTTUNWAR. 

lliis district occupies the north-westera comer of the Gujerat province, end 
has es yet been but very imperfectly’ explored ; its limits are, consequently> 
especially to the north, very ill defined. To the west it is bounded by the 
Runn. The principal streams are the Banass and Sereswati. 

Forty years ago, the district immediately attached to the town of Puttun 
belonged to Kumaul ud Deen, the father of the present Nabob of Rahdunpoor» 
but he was then compelled by Dammajee Guicowar to abandon all pretensionk 
to Puttun and its nine dependent pergunnahs. The country is now but thinly 
inhabited, and much exposed to the ravages of the numerous predatory tribes 
in this quarter of Gujerat, but it contains the ancient metropolis of that pro- 
vtnce, named Nehrwalla, or Puttun; the seat of government haviug ^en 
subsequently transferred by the Mahommedan Sultans to Ahmedabad. The 
appellation, Nehrwalla, is written Anhulvada, and signifies the field of Anhid ; 
in modem times it is known to the natives by the name of Puttun, or the city. 
By Abul Fazel, in 1582, the district is described as follows : ** Circar Puttun, 
containing 16 mahals, measurement 3,760,016 begahs; revenue 600,326,099 
dams; seyurgbal 210,327 dams. This circar furnishes 716 cavalry, and 6000 
infiantry.” The town of Puttun is situated on the south side of the Sereswati 
river, which here in the dry season rolls a feeble stream, about 66 miles N. 
by E. from Ahmedabad. Lat. 23” 48' N. long. 72” 2' E. — Macmurdo, Abut 
Fazdt i^c.) 

Nxteb. — ^T his small district is situated at the north-western extremity of the 
Gujerat province, and has never been properly explored. To the west it ap- 
proadies the Runn, and the country generally is of an arid and sandy nature, 
without rivers or streams. Water, for drinJdng, is procured from wells, but 
these in some seasons afiPord but a precarious supply. Nor are the Inhabitants 
better than their country, consisting principally of Coolies, a proportion of Raj- 
poots, and of late years Mahommedans, who are all, conjointly and severally, 
thieves and depredators. The principal town in this province is Wow, to t^ 
westward of which are Bakarir, Gurrah, Rhardra, the, bitter being about 40 
n^il— west firom Wow. Neyer abounds with horses of a quality superioir to 
parts of the province, which enables the plundering' ^jpoots extend 

thdr ravages over a great tract of country as ilur as Jhin^fwara, in Gujerat. The 
Codies here are armed with the teerkmpta, and with a stick curved like tiie 
of a sabre» which is smoked and made extremely hard. This weapcm they 
ctta throw 120 yards, at which distance they assert they can brnk a man’s leg, 
or kill ham if tiiey strike the head.--('iMaciiNirds, 



6^ THE PROVINCE [tbkeaud. 

Theraup. — A town and district in the north>west«rn frontier of the provinos 
of Gujerat. Lat. 24° 16' N. long. 71° 32' £. The pergnnnah of Thmud fs 
bounded on the north by Marwar, Sanjore being 30 miles N. N. E. from the 
town. On the west it is hounded closely by Wow, which is only distant 12 
miles. To the south. it has Babere, 30 miles distant; and on l^e east the 
district of Deesa, in which direction its territory extrads 40 mUes. Within 
these boundaries it ia said to contain 33 villages, yieldii^ a revenue to Hirbum- 
jee, the cliief, of 20,000 rupees, while his expenses exceed 60,000, the dUfference 
being made up by plundering his neighbours. In this whole district there is 
not a river, and few of the villages are supplied with a tank. At the town of 
Theraud water is found about 60 yards below the surface, but it is not always of 
a good quality, and the wells from which the villages are supplied are frequently 
brackish. The scarcity of water entirely prevents the cultivation of vegetables, 
of which, with the exception of onions brought from Rahdunpoor, Theraup is 
destitute. \ 

The natives of the country subsist chiefly on bajeree, all classes being too 
poor to purcliase wheat; their other articles of food are the milk of cows 
and camels, and the flesh of goats and sheep. The Theraud district furnishes 
excellent camels and good horses, many of the latter are also imported from 
Bhaudra, situated to the westward, where the breed is still superior. The cul* 
tivators are tolerably well treated by their chiefs, who are restrained from 
extreme oppression by the threat of deserting and retiring to an adjacent 
village, probably the domain of an enemy or rival. 

The town of Theraud contains about 2,700 houses, 300 of which are inhabited 
by Banyans ; the remainder by Coolies, Rajpoots, and Sindeans. It is sur- 
rounded by a wall and ditch, the latter about 30 feet deep, but both in a very 
bad state of repair. By the natives of the adjacent country it is esteemed a 
place of great streng;th, and it is so against predatory troops, in a country 
without artillery. With the exception of the court house and the Parishat 
temples, it contains few good buildings. Most of the wells are brackish, and 
the surrounding jungle comes close up to the walls. This place is situated so 
near to the borders of Sinde, that constant inroads are made by parties of 
marauding cavalry from the tract between between Theraud and the Indus, 
The Theraud chief can muster 1,300 cavalry, well mounted, 300 of whom are 
his frmily horsemen, or troops related to him by marriage or caste, mid who 
reside in the durbar or court house. The others are Sindeans, nn^are a species 
of local militia. Both town and^’pergunnah have long been tributary to the 
Jottdpoor Ri^, who is always obliged to send a very laige force when he 
wishes to levy tribate,--<'jMh(wwriih, ^ 



PALHANPOOII.J OF OUJERAT. 625 

JsTBA. — fortified town in Gujerat, about 24 miles £. from Theraud. In 
1809 this was a place of some strength, and its chief could muster about 
700 men, with which he levied contributions from the villages in the Theraud 
pergunnah. 

Wow. — A fortified town in the district of Neyer, situated about 10 miles S.W. 
from Theraud. Lat. 24® 11' N. long. 71“ 23' E. This town is much more popu- 
lous than Theraud, and may be considered the capital of Neyer. In 1809 it 
contained not fewer than 1,000 Rajpoot families of rank and credit. Formerly 
the whole tract of country as far as Theraud un the east, Gurrah and Rhardra 
on the west, Sooeegaun and the Runn on the south, and SanjOre on the 
north, were subject to the Ranny of Wow, a Chowan Rajpootnee (female 
Rajpoot). — ( Macmurdo, ^'c.) 

Dandar (Dhandar ). — ^The name of a small district in the Gujerat province, 
situated to the north of Palhanpoor, and so named in allusion to its extraordinary 
fertility. According to the report of a native Moonshee sent to examine this 
and the adjacent tracts, it contains 180 towns and villages, but this appears too 
liberal an allowance . — (Public MS. Documents, ^c.) 

Palhanpoor. — A town in the north-west quarter of the Gujerat province, 
situated about 80 miles N. by W. from Ahmedabad. Lat. 24® 11' N. long. 
72® 20' E. The pergunnah attached to this place is in the Myhie Kaunta divi- 
sion, and in 1813 was reckoned to contain 130 villages, producing annually about 
two lacks and a half of rupees. The boundaries of the district are nowhere 
more than 40 miles from the capital. To the north are the lands of Kheyraloo 
and Sidpoor, belonging to the Guicowar, to which there is an open road. The 
town of Deesa is distant to the west about 12 miles ; the country between them 
a plain. The town of Dhunteewara is 15 miles distant towards the north, and 
the intermediate country is level and intersected by the river Banass. To the 
north of Dhunteewara is Sooree. a district of a mountainous surface. The 
savage character of the Coolie inhabitants throughout this tract, and the great 
natural obstacles opposed to the passage of troops by impervious woods and 
narrow defiles among rocks and hills, tend tb retain its natives in their present 
state of semi-independence and entire barbarity. 

The fort of Palhanpoor was built by Bahadur Khan in the year of Vicramaditya, 
1806, is of brick and mortar, with 29 towers, mostly in a state of great dilapi- 
dation, and about one mile and a half in circumference. There are also two 
suburbs adjacent, and the whole surrounded by a ditch 12 feet deep and 22 
broad. The gates are defended by ravelins, in which there are some small guns, 
VOL. I. 4 L 



626 THE PROVINCE {pALHAirMioit. 

mostly from two and a half to five pounders. In 1813, it was reckoned to 
contain the following number of houses : 

Belonging to Ban 3 rans 800 

To Koonbees 200 

To Maulies and Cacheras 100 

* To Ousbatty Mahommedans 1,600 

To Sindeans unemployed 200 

To nine different classes of artificers 3,200 


Total 6,100 

In a political point of view the situation of Palhanpoor in the Gujerat provihce, 
is of considerable importance, as it is the outlet to Ajmeer or Rajpootana, mid 
borders on the desert which separates Gujerat from Sinde and Cutch. The 
tribute paid to the Guicowar is 50,000 rupees per annum. \ 

In the reign of Acber, Ghizni Khan first brought this place into notice, that 
emperor having also assigned him the charge of various other places, such as 
Jalore, Sanjore, (then possessed by the Chohan Rajpoots) ; Theraud, (by Uie 
Vagela Rajpoots) ; Deesa, (by the Cusbatty Mahommedans) ; and Bhalmul, by 
another tribe of Rajpoots. From that period under many vicissitudes of fortune 
his descendants are said to have remained chiefr of Palhanpoor. 

In 1808, a decennial engagement was concluded with the Jemadar Furreed 
Khan, at that time in chai^ of the government of Palhanpoor, confirmed by the 
security of the British government, for the regular payment of an annual tribute 
to the Guicowar, on the principle of the settlement effected by Colonel Walker 
in Catty war, which terms were punctually executed up to the year 1813. In 
that year information was received at Bombay, that the dewan or chief of 
Palhanpoor, Feroze Khan, had been assassinated by the commander of the Sindean 
garrison, and that Furreed Khan had died suddenly, so that the place was left 
exposed to all the contentions of a disorganized government. It became con- 
sequently necessary for the British authority to interfere, to effect the restoration 
of the Guicowar’s authority, and the entire expulsion of frie Sindean faction. 
It was also of importance to allay the prevailing dissentions, and restrain a 
propensity to effect revolutions common to sdl the petty states of Hindostan, 
and extremely prejudicial to industry and good order, as well as inconsistent 
with the respect due to the Guicowar, the feudal superior, and to the security 
pledged by the British govemnftnt. 

An inquiry was in consequence instituted regarding the political circum* 
stances of this petty state, when it was discovered that the Sindean garriscm of 



OF GUJERAT. 


PALBAKPOOB.] 


627 


Palhanpoor bod assassinated the dewan Feroze Khan, imprisoned his son and 
mother, and, being for some short time in possession of the sovereignty, had 
placed the chief of Deesa on the throne. I^ey also disputed the right of the 
Ouicowar to interfere with the internal affairs of the principality. The imme* 
diate heirs to the succession were the sons of Taje Khan, lineally descended 
from the founder of the state, but they were both disqualified for the exercise 
of authority, the elder from mental incapacity, the younger from blindness. 
The next in propinquity was Futteh Khan, a descendant of the senior branch of 
the Palhanpoor family ; but there was another claimant in the person of Shum- 
shere Khan, the chief of Deesa, whose cpuse was espoused by the Sindean gar- 
rison, and whose pretensions, according to native ideas, were better founded 
than those of Futteh Khan, his nephew. To reconcile these conflicting interests, 
the former, who had no son, was appointed guardian to the latter (a boy,) and 
induced not only to bestow his daughter on him in marriage, but also to adopt 
him as his heir generally, by which all differences in this respect were amicably 
adjusted. 

The expulsion of the Sindean garrison still remained, to effect which a British 
detachment under Colonel Holmes approached the town, which, after a tedious 
and vexatious negociation, was surrendered without resistance on the 15th of 
December, 1813, thereby preventing the lamentable consequences that would 
have followed the storming of so populous a town. The subsequent arrange- 
ments provided for the due administration of affairs during the minority of 
Futteh Khan, who having been constituted heir to the possessions of Shumshere 
Khan, and of the fortresses of Deesa and Dhennasa, the state of Palhanpoor 
was by this^consolidation rendered more respectable in itself, and more efficient 
an a tributary. To secure the Guico war’s interest, 200 of his militia were left 
in temporary charge of two of the gates of the fort, but subject to the orders of 
Futteh Khan, and with a view to the immediate tranquillization of the town and 
neighbourhood, 300 of the Bombay native infantry under European officers were 
left in garrison, to be withdrawn as soon as the object was effected. The ex- 
penses of the expedition, amounting to three lacks of rupees, were defrayed by 
the Palhanpoor chief, of which 230,000 fell to the share of the British govern- 
ment, and ^e remainder to that of the Guicowar. Thus concluded an attempt 
to revolutionize the principality of Palhanpoor, which escaped the fate of many 
of the petty states of Gujerat ; their history through many generations exhibiting 
an uninterrupted scene of anarchy and turbulence, terminating in the establish- 
ment of the power of mercenary soldiers with every aggravation of oppression. 
MS. Doaments, CarmCf ^.) 

4 i 2 



THE PROVINCE 


628 


[babovkkws. 


Deesa. — ^The fort of Deesa was begun by Bahadur Khan, and by 

Shumshere Khan, its present chief. According to native reports this had 
once 500 villages under its subjection, chiefly inhabited by Bheels and Mewassies, 
whose rebellious and obstinate dispositions nearly prevented the collection of 
any revenue. The town is situated about 12 miles west from Palhanpoor. Lat. 
24^ 9' N. long. 72* 8' £. and in 1813, Shumshere Khan, its chief, maintaine d a 
force of 300 foot and 100 horse . — ( A native Moonshee, ^c.) 

SiDPOOR. — ^This place stands on the north side of the river Sereswati, 68 miles 
N. N. W. from Ahmedabad, and 28 from Mehsani, on the road from the south to 
Palhanpoor. Lat. 23* 55' N. long. 72° 19' £. It is tributary to the Guicowar. 
( Public MS. Documents, S^c.) 1 

Werrear. — ^This district extends along the north western frontier of ^ 
Gujerat province. The country lying between Rahdunpoor and Patree on tae 
north and south, and from Beecharjee to the banks of the Runn, is called Wud> 
dyar, or Wurryar, for which name the inhabitants say it is indebted to the 
excellent quality of its grass, it being resorted to by immense herds of cattle, sent 
to pasture on the banks of the Runn. Wuddyar, or Wandyar in the Gujerattee 
language signifies a herdsman, by which class the banks of the Runn were 
originally inhabited. 

Throughout the whole of Werrear fowls and sheep are cheap and abundant; 
the price of the former being five for a rupee, and the latter half a rupee each ; 
but goats are a greater rarity. It also produces a number of horses of a smaller 
breed than those of Cattywar; but horses of a good quality being in great 
demand few are exported, and those principally to the Joudpoor territories. 
This tract of country is much infested by plundering Coolies, the principal dens 
of these robbers being at Warye, 14 miles S. W. from Rahdunpoor; Barbere, 24 
miles north (belonging to the Coolies); and Therwara, 30 miles N.W. from 
Rahdunpoor; the last possessed by the Baloochees. — (Macmurdo, ^c.) 

Rahdunpoor. — ^This is a town of considerable extent, situated about 125 
miles in a N. W. direction from Baroda, the Guicowar’s capital. Lat. 23° 40' N. 
long. 71* 31' E. It stands in a wide and open plmn, and.is surrounded by an 
ancient brick wall, with towers at regular distances, but the whole is in a state of 
decay. It has also an inner fort or castle, a town wall, and another wall, the 
whole enclosed by a dry ditch about 20 feet deep, and in some particular parts 
it has a double ditch. The town^of Rahdunpoor is said to contain above 6000 
houses, 1400 of which are inhabited by Banyans and money changers, some of 
whom are men of property and eatensive commerce. Owing to its geographical 
position, it is a kind of emporium for the trade of Marwar and Cutch ; but the 
roads are frequently greajtly infested by the j^luttdenng Coolies, The staple 



BAHDUKrooR.] OF GUJERAT. 629 

commodities iimushed by this city are ghee, wheat, and hides. The ghee is sent 
to Cutch, and the two latter to Bhownuggur, on the gulph of Cambay, from 
whence it is exported. No manufactures of any consequence are carried on here, 
except one of very coarse cloth for the Coolies. The inhabitants are mostly 
employed in pastoral and agricultural pursuits, by which they have brought the 
vicinity of the town into a high state of cultivation. Wheat is usually sold for a 
rupee per maund, for which sum only three-fourths of a maund of bajeree are 
obtained. 

The river Banass passes withing three or four miles of Rahdunpoor, but, except 
during the rains, is never full. The road to Ajmeer leads off to the north, across 
a ridge of mountains by the town of Sachore ; the pass in the Runn is situated 
near Ranavay, about 30 miles N. W. from Rahdunpoor, and subordinate to its 
authority. There is another pass in the Runn, at the village of Gurrah Santil, 
40 miles W. of Rahdunpoor, on the high road from Luckput Bunder and Sinde 
to Gujerat, which is much frequented. The scarcity of water, and the general 
sterility of the soil, would render it nearly impossible to convey an army into 
the Gujerat province by the Rahdunpoor pass, if the invaders were opposed by 
the local authorities. 

Jewan Khan Murd Babi by his valour and family popularity possessed himsel: 
of the soubahdary of Gujerat, and, although he never received a regular investi- 
ture from Delhi, continued to exercise a sovereign authority, and made the annual 
collections for a considerable period. In 1774, Ragoonath Row invaded Gujerat 
with a large army, and in due time laid siege to Ahmedabad, which was 
surrendered by the Babi on very advantageous terms, extorted from the Maha- 
ratta chiefs by his long and gallsint defence. In addition to his regular jaghire 
of Rahdunpoor and Sommee, this treaty secured to him the districts of 
Puttun, Bumuggur, Monjeepoor, and Bejapoor, all situated in the vicinity of 
Rahdunpoor. Damajee Guicowar, after the departure of Ragoonauth, finding 
the power of the Babi's still too great, deprived them of Puttun and all the other 
districts, with the exception of their original jaghire, with Monjeepoor and The- 
raud annexed. Notwithstanding these privations, the late Nabob Ghazi ud Deen 
Khan supported the dignity of the Babi family, and his capital was the refuge of 
the most respectable and noble Mahommedan families, when in the wane of their 
power they fled from Ahmedabad. 

On the death of Ghazi ud Deen differences arose between his two sons: and 
the eldest, Shere Khan, who held Rahdunpoor, applied to the Guicowar govern- 
ment, and to the British resident at Baroda, for their interference ; while the 
younger, who held the fort of Sommee, invited Futteh Mahommed, the Jemadar 
of Cutch, to his assistance. Soon afterwards the chief obstacle to a peaceable 



630 THE PROVINCE [ooochnaoth. 

negotiation lieing removed by the death of the younger son, the l^ritish govern* 
meiit, in ISIS, interposed its good offices to tranquillize this petty state and 
maintain the legitimate succession. An agreement was in. consequence entered 
into, by the conditions of which the Guicowar state is empowered, un<jler the 
mediation of and with the advice of the British authorities, topontroul the external 
relations of this principality, and the Nabob engaged to abstain fjrom all commu* 
nications with foreign powers, except with the knowledge and under sanction of 
the Guicowar. On the other hand, th^ latter bound himself not to interfere with 
the internal affairs of Rahdunpoor, except, with the advice and concurrence of 
the British government; and he also agreed to assist the Nabob in defending 1^ 
territories against invasion by an enemy, the expenses to be defrayed by tke 
state succoured. The Rahdunpoor Nabob, having in this manner recognizep 
the supremacy of the Guicowar, consented to make an annual acknowledgement^ 
thereof by presenting a horse and cloths through the representative of the British) 
government at Baroda, the Guicowar’s capital. By this arrangement the influ- 
ence and controul of the Guicowar, in concert with the British authorities, was 
extended to the borders of the great desert separating Sinde from the province 
of Gujerat. 

No tribute was ever exacted from the Rahdunpoor Nabob by any of the pre- 
dominating Maharatta governments ; but, being on strict terms of friendship 
with the Guicowar state, he undertook to guard the two passes into Gujerat from 
Sinde and Ajmeer. To support l^is authority, which, on account of the rude 
tribes that compose the mass of his subjects, would be otherwise precarious, he 
retains mercenaries from Sinde, to which province his country is contiguous, and 
through them controuls the wild habits of the Coolies. These last cannot be 
employed as regular soldiers, for no discipline can teach them subordination, but 
on an emergency their services are procurable at no greater expense than that of 
their daily subsistence while so employed. The large district of Jutwar, and 
also those in which the populous towns of Morwarra, Sooeegaum, and Theraud 
are situated, being tributary to Rahdunpoor, now also fall undhr the supremacy 
of the Guicowar government. When the Nabob of Rahdunpoor was efficient, a 
considerable portion of Waguf in Cutch was also tributary to him, and his daims 
ore stHl uncontested. At present the annual revenue of the four places in the 
possession of the family is about 150,000 rupees ; 80,000 of which is disbursed 
in military charges to about cavalry and three or four byrucks. The 
NaboVs.estaldidiment consists of three palanquins and two elephants, the onall 
remnants of aoci^t splendour.— JOomaatts, Camec, Maamrdo, 
Sgc, ^,) 

CtoocRMAin’B.— A village in tiheO^en^fnNmnce, utuated on tiw south biidt 



OF GUJERAT. 


XAKREZE.] 


631 


of the Banass river, about three miles S. E. from Rahdunpoor. The country 
immediately adjacent is in a high state of ctiltivation, and the fields in somw 
places enclosed. 

Moyjpooa. — small town belonging to the Nabob of Rahdunpoor, 55 miles 
N. W. from the city of Ahmedabad. Lat. 23" 33' N. long. 71" 50' E. The for- 
tifications of this town are insignificant. The surrounding country is more 
enclosed than the contiguous districts, and has a rough and rugged appearance. 
(Camac, S^c.) 

SoMMEE. — ^This is the Nabob of Rahdunpooris capital, and is situated about 
15 miles S. £. from that town. Lat. 23° 32' N. long. 71° 43' £. Sommee is a 
place of considerable size, surrounded by a wall, which is in many places falling 
to pieces. In the inside, although the houses have generally an upper fioor, 
they make a very wretched appearance. The town stands in a swamp, is encom- 
passed by many puddles, and during che rainy season is nearly under water. To 
the north-west is a plain destitute of wood, but partly cultivated,', and abounding 
with antelopes. The Nabob of Rahdunpoor usually keeps his court at this place, 
while the heir apparent resides at Rahdunpoor . — ( Macmurdo, ^c.) 

Kakhezk. — A district in the north-eastern quarter of G'ujerat, which com- 
mences at the town of Oon, about 15 miles north of Rahdunpoor. In 1809 it 
contained the following principal places : 

1. Deodur, the chief Poonjajee, a Wagella Rajpoot. 

2. Turrah, the chief Tezabhoy, a Coolie, late a Rajpoot. 

3. Seoree, the chief Kinjaijee, a Batesir Coolie. 

4. Moondetah, the chief Kagojee, a Coolie. 

6. Kakor, the chief Poonjajee, a Coolie. 

6. Oon, the chief Prithi Raj, a Coolie. 

7. Balgaum, the chief Prithi Raj, a Coolie. 

8. Ranningpoor, the chief Prithi Raj, a Coolie. 

Therah may be considered as the present capital of the Kakreze, the greater 
pari of which was formerly under the Rajpoots of Deodur, from whose authority 
it was wrested by Chillabhoy, a Coolie, who fixed his residence at Turrah ; Kak- 
reze was increased to the extent of 84 villages in the time of Koombajee his 
son, and it afterwards descended to Jamajee, who raised, his family a step by 
marrying a Rhatore Rajpootnee (a female Rajpoot). 

Jamajee reigned about 60 years ago, at which period a great many Coolies 
were subject to his government, but, as is their nature, very refractory. Many 
years before his death he had been in the practice of concealing himself so effec- 
tually, that, except his wife, no person knew of his being alive. A sham funeral 
was performed which inveigled the Coolies into acts of r^Uitm, an^^ then he 



632 THE PROVINCE [jutvab. 

made his appearance and inflicted a severe punishment. This had happened so 
frequently, that for three years after his death the &ct was not credited. His 
wife, Raj Bhye, was his successor, and so much esteemed by Futteh Singh 
Guicowar that he confided to her the charge of Kakreze and Puttunwara, until 
})is death, which happened above 50 years ago. 

The town of Oon, like the rest of the district, is now occupied by a petty ittde> 
peudent chief. Deodur is the place of most strength, and can must^.from 300 
to 400 cavalry well mounted, and nearly 2000 infantry, on urgent emei^encies. 
In this district the dead are buried without the lamentations which usually 
accompany funeral obsequies in Gujerat. — (' Macmurdo, Sgc.) 

Tubrah ( or Therah ). — ^This town is situated about half way between Th^raud 
and Rahdunpoor. Lat. 23“ 52' N. long. 71“ 41' E. It is an open town coAtain- 
ing about 2500 houses, 1500 of which are the property of Coolies, the qther 
inhabitants being Rajpoots, Koonbees, Banyans, &c. To the north of The^b, 
which may be considered as the present capital of the Kakreze, the country is 
cultivated, but interspersed with bushy jungle, and very deficient in water, 
which is procured from wells 40 feet deep, some of which are brackish. The 
present chiefs of Therah are Tezabhoy and Jalim Singh, who divide between 
tliem a revenue of ten villages, amounting to about 35,000 rupees per annum. — 
( Macmurdo, ^c.) 

Deoduh. — A. town in that portion of the Gujerat province, named the Kak- 
reze, situated near the north western boundary, about 19 miles S. by E. from 
Theraud. Lat. 24“ 1' N. long. 71“ 35' E. This place contains about 1000 
houses, the greater part of which are inhabited by Rajpoots and Coolies. 

Oow. — ^This town is situated on the borders of the Kakreze territory, about 15 
miles to the north of Rahdunpoor, and is celebrated for the thievish disposition 
of its inhabitants. It is an open town with one long bazar street, the houses of 
which are tolerably well constructed, and several have upper stories. It con- 
tains about 2000 houses, 800 of which are inhabited by Coolies. 

Tehrwarra. — A town in Gujerat, about 15 miles N, from Rahdunpoor. 
Lat. 23“ 53' N. long. 71“ 25' E. In 1809, this place nominally belonged ta 
Kumaul Khan, but was in fact a den of thieves, who neither paid tribute to 
the Khan, or acknowledged his authority. 

Mobewara. — ^This is a populous town, situated about 19 miles N. W. from 
Rnhdunpoor. Lat. 23“ 48' N.riong. 71“ 15' E. It has not any defences, but it 
has a large tank, and is .in every respect a flourishing place. The surroundmg 
country is mudi in^ted by tibe predatory Coolies, who are fortunately greatly 
afrud of fire arms. 

JuTWAB, — A Strict in tiie north-eastern quarter of the Gujerat province. 



OF GUJERAT. 


JVTWAR.] 


633 


which extends along the Runn morass, and is intersected during the rainy 
season by several branches of the Banass river, by the Sereswati, and the Roo- 
peyne. Although this tract is more particularly designated as the country of the 
Juts, or Jhuts, yet the name has a most comprehensive extent, for the provinces 
on the east side of the Indus, subject to Cabul, are peopled by a class of Hindi- 
kees called Juts, who also compose the Mahommedan peasantry of the Punjab, 
form the principal population of Sinde, and are found mixed with Baloochecs 
throughout all the south-west of Baloochistan and Muckelwaud. In Baloo- 
chistan they are termed Jugdalls, as well as Juts ; and the tribe of them inhabiting 
Lus, is called by the name of Jokhna and Noomree. From the manners, appear- 
ance, and customs of this tribe, there i5 reason to believe that the Juts, where- 
e\'er placed, were all originally Hindoos, and converted to the Mahommedan 
faith after tlte Arabian invasion, and the immense space through which they are 
now scattered, renders a more particular investigation of their origin and history 
desirable. 

The tribe of Juts at present occupying this district, are of Sindean extraction, 
the caste being common both in Sinde and Cutch. They are a very turbulent 
predatory race, and carry their ravaging excursions, at particular seasons, to a 
great distance from their own precincts ; after which, until next year, they are 
absorbed into, and remain undistinguished from the rest of the population. 
They profess the Mahommedan religion, and in their manners resemble the 
Baloochy tribes; but they do not intermarry with the Mahommedans of Werrear. 
They kill cows without scruple, and eat the flesh of oxen in preference to any 
other. 

Although the Juts are plunderers by birth, parentage, and education, yet 
many portions of their own territories are populous and well cultivated, the 
tribe not being deficient in industry. They have a race of slaves among them, 
who not only perform menial offices, but also attend them on their marauding 
excursions. These slaves they brought with them on their first settlement and 
are named Sumehja, which is the name of an inferior tribe formerly very 
numerous in Sinde. In 1809, Humeer Khan, and Omar Khan were the principal 
Jut chieftans, and, as well as Uieir relations, were frequently at war with each 
other ; but on occasions of public danger the whole family unites, and private 
dissentions ceases. 

The Jut women exercise an influence over the men, which is rarely found 
among Mahommedans, and a woman can, when she chuses, leave her husband 
and marry another. Wlien this divorce is determined on, she assembles all her 
female acquaintance, and attacks her husband, demolishes his furniture, and 

VOL. 1. 4 u 



634 THE PROVINCE [bujaha. 

continues to persecute him until he acquiesces in a separation. The Jut women 
are plain in their persons, and dress in coarse black cloths, which do not improve 
their appearance ; yet they are held in great respect by the men, and a traveller 
caijnot have a better protector from these plunderers than one of their own 
females. In 1816, several British villages in the pergunnah of Dholka, were 
plundered by a body of 800 Juts, who were pursued and might have been 
destroyed by a party of his Majesty’s 17th Dragoons, but that the magistrate 
did, not consider himself authorized to pursue them into the Peshwa’s territoTieB, 
without direct permission from Poona. — (Mamurdo, Elphinstoaet 

Warye. — town in the Jutwar district, situated about 12 mules S. W.ifrom 
Rahdunpoor. Lat. 23” 33' N. long. 71” 22' £. Thb is an open town prot^ted 
only by a ditch, which is in many places filled up with thorns and rubbish. ' 

Lollara. — ^This place stands about 23 miles S. £. from Rahdunpoor, and 
contains about 1000 houses, inhabited principally by Naroda Rajpoots, Mahom- 
medans, and Rajpoots who have been converted to that faith. Lat. 23° 25' N. 
long. 71” 42' E, 

Patree. — A town in the Jutwar subdivision of the Gujerat province, 44 miles 
b. S. E. from Rahdunpoor. Lat. 23° 7' N. long. 71® 51' E. This is a lai^ and 
populous place, defended by three distinct walls, tlie inner of which b enclosed 
by a small ditch, which even in the dry season contains a considerable quantity 
of water. In remote times Patree was esteemed a city of considerable strength, 
and it makes a tolerable figure in the histories of Gujerat ; but the fortifications 
are now in a state of decay, and in many places falling to pieces. A beautiful 
tank extends along the north face, and renders an attack from that quarter 
altogether impracticable, and the town on the whole may be reckoned one of 
the strongest in India. To the north the country is tolerably well cultivated ; 
but much interspersed with milk bush, and low baubool trees, the rind of which 
is a strong astringent. 

Patree originally belonged to the Raja of Darangdra, formerly an indepen- 
dent principality in the Gujerat peninsula, but which became the property of 
the present family through the interest of the Peshwa’s government, which they 
had served for a number of years. The present chief is of the Kombee caste, 
and only entitled Dessoy, although he is in reality the Thakoor (lord) of the 
place and its dependencies. The inhabitants are chiefly Rajpoots and Koonbees 
(cultivators), and the latter, when tilling the field, are seen armed with the bow 
and arrows of the Coolies. — ( Macmwrdo, ^.) 

Bujama. — A large and populous town in the Gqjerat province, dbtrict of 



GUJEBAT PEKIKSULA.] OF GUJERAT. 635 

Jtttwar, situated on the south bank of the Runn, which here in December is in 
many places merely moist sand, and in others an extensive sheet of shallow 
water. Lat. 23° 6' N. long. 71° 6(/ £. In 1609, the chief of Bujana was a 
Jut, named Mullick Shnjah, who, in concert with his brother Derea Khan, 
managed the district. He is appointed by the Mullick of Bujana, and is 
installed by having a turbjan conferred on him . — ( Macmurdo, ^c.) 

Wawal. — ^T his place contains 300 houses, and stands on the banks of the 
Sereswati, a small stream of salt water, which, during the rains, overflows its 
banks, but at other seasons is everywhere fordable. It is situated a few miles 
south-east from Rahdunpoor. 

Dussaba. — ^This town contains about 1300 houses, the greater part of which 
are possessed by Kusbaties, the remainder of the population being Coolies, 
Rajpoots, and other castes ; besides a few Banyans. Lat. 23° 16' N. long. 71° 
51' E. Dussara, with 12 surrounding villages, is the property of a Mahom- 
medan zemindar, named Mullick, whose family came originally from Mooltan. 
The authority, in 1809, was possessed by two relations, one of whom resided in 
the small fort, and the other in the town. One of their ancestors about A. D. 
1209, was put to death by the Raja of Hulwud, for having committed gowhattia 
(cow killing), and is now held in great veneration as a saint by the adjacent 
Mahommedan inhabitants. His tomb is on the banks of a large tank in neigh- 
bourhood of the town. The military force of Dussara is composed of 2000 
horsemen of the Mullick caste, and 100 infantry, who are kept on the alert in 
preventing the depredations of the Juts. From Dussara towards Addrianna the 
country is tolerably well cultivated, the inhabitants consisting of Coolies and 
the inferior castes of Rajpoots. — ( Macmurdo, Sgc.) 

WuEOAUM.— This village is situated about five miles N. N. E. from Dussara 
in a rich and level country, amply supplied with tanks of good water, and 
remarkable for the abundant crops of wheat and grain which it produces, 

THE GUJERAT PENINSULA. 

This territory is situated principally between the 21st and 23d degrees of 
north latitude, and occupies the south-western extremity of the province, to the 
main land of which it is joined by an isthmus. To the north it is bounded by 
the gulf of Cutch and the Runn ; on the south and west by the Indian Ocean . 
and on the east by the latter and gulf of Cambay. In length from east to west 
it may be estimated 190 miles, by 1 10 the average breadth. The general name 
of Cattywar for the Gujerat peninsula was applied by the Maharattas, being 
probably first opposed there by the Catties, whose active and roving disposition 

4 m2 



636 THE PROVINCE [ocjerat 

gave them the appearance of greater numbers than the reality justified. At 
present the principal geographical and political subdivisions are the following; 

1. Catty war, 4. Okamundel, 7. Goelwar, 

2. Jhalawar, 5. Burudda, 8. Arratum. 

3. Hallaur, 6. Babreawar, 

And the chief towns and petty states — 

Noanagur, Soreth, orJunaghur, Bhownuggilr, 

Bate, Diu, Gogo, 

Juggeth, or Dwaraca, Durangdra, Palyad. 

Poorbunder, Goundul, , 

The principal river of the peninsula 'is the Bhadur, which issues from la hill 
named Mandwa, in the eastern parts of Cattywar, near Jusdun, and flowi^ig in 
a southerly direction falls into the sea near Nuveebunder, 12 or 15 miles muth 
of Poorbunder. The whole length of its course in a direct line is about 90 
miles, and in the monsoons small boats navigate as far as Kattiana, 18 miles 
from its mouth. Besides the above stream, there is another named the Bhadur, 
which rises on the opposite side of the hill, and falls into the upper part of the 
gulf of Cambay. Next to the Bhadur is the Muchoo river, which has its 
source among the Sirdhar hills on the borders of Hallaur, and disembogues by 
many outlets into the Runn, or swamp, at the head of the gulf of Cutch, hear 
Mallia. The Muchoo has a rocky channel, generally low banks, and a direct 
course of about G5 miles. The Ajee river appears first not far from Sirdhar, 
flows past Rajcote, and pursuing a westerly direction falls into the gulf of Cutch 
near Balumba. Gold dust is found in the bed of the Ajee in small quantities 
near Rajcote, the chieftain of which place has rings and other ornaments made 
of the gold picked up in that vicinity. The Sutrinje has its source on the 
western side of the hills, which form a part of the Junaghur cluster, and pur- 
suing an easterly and southerly course falls into the -sea near Tullaja, in the 
pergunnah of Gogo. All these rivers receive a great many tributary streams 
and rivulets (according to the natives, the Bhadur receives ninety-nine), the 
whole peninsula being remarkably intersected with excellent and clear runnipi; 
water, and their banks occasionally presenting picturesque scenes of romantic 
beauty. Many of these have poetical names, such as the Roopa Rete, silver 
waves ; Phooljer, studded with flowers ; and Nagne, serpentine. 

The mountains here are few jmd of no remarkable elevation. Choli:la is noted 
for the wildness of its appearance, and the barbarity of its inhabitants; and 
the mountain of Pulletana in Goelwar, for the Shrawuk temples on its summit. 
The loftiest of the Junaghur hills (named in Sanscrit, Rewtachil) is sacred, and 



PEHIN8ULA.J OF GTJJERAT. 637 

is surrounded by others of a smaller size with vallies intervening, the soil of 
which is composed of the earth and debris washed down from above. The 
Burrudda hills consist of a clump near Poorbunder, extending from Gomlee on 
the north to Kundorna on the southern extreme, about 20 miles ; and all the 
clusters of hills above named send off branches in various directions, while 
other hills are detached and insulated, standing in plains, such as Ashum, near 
Gunode ; Gope, near Gomlee ; and Alies, near Dhaunk. The whole peninsula 
swarms with places of worship and reputed sanctity, among which may be 
enumerated Dwaraca, Bate, Somnauth, and Gemal. In some places hot winds 
prevail in May and June, but the general climate may be considered dry and 
healthy, with a westerly wind all the’fair seas(n). In December and January 
there are east and north-east winds, with remarkably thick fogs, which disperse 
at sun rise. 

The following are the principal classes into which the inhabitants may be 
subdivided : 

1. Rajpoots, such as the Jahrejahs, Jhalla, Goel, and Jetwah. 

2. Catties, of which there are three principal families, Walla, Khacher, and 
Khooman. 

3. Coolies, Kauts, and Sindees, called also Bawars. 

4. Koombees, Mares, Aheers, Rehbaries, and other industrious tribes. 

The Bhatts are more immediately connected with the Rajpoots, and the 

Charons with the Catties. A great majority of the petty chiefs of this country 
are of the tribe of Jahrejahs. According to the ancient history of this race» 
their best ascertained establishment was in the province of Sinde ; but tradition 
tends to impress the belief, that they once extended under different denominations 
throughout a great part of Persia, when they were said to have worshipped 
different gods from the other Rajpoots. From Sinde they were probably 
expelled by the early invasion of the Caliphs. As it is, the Jahrejahs, Catties, 
and many other tribes calling themselves Hindoos, are but very superficially 
instructed in the doctrines of their own faith, and their claim to be considered 
within the Brahminical pale but very slender, although they believe in all the 
Brahminical legends. The sun and the Matha Assapuri are in fact the real 
objects of their worship ; their tenets, with respect to purity and impurity of 
eating, are by no means rigid, and they drink spirits in public. Under the title of 
Matha Assapuri they venerate the goddess of nature, named also Hinglais Bha- 
vani, to whom in Cutch, the Jahrejahs have erected a temple named Assapuri, 
where a buffaloe is annually immolated. The name of Jahrejah is ascribed to 
the fabulous origin of the four Yadoos, who escaped from the battles of Krishna, 
and were protected by Hinglais Bhavani. 



638 THE PROVINCE [cojebat 

Among Ihe chiefs of the Jahrejah tribes, the remarkable and inhuman custom 
of female infanticide universally prevailed, until they were induced by the inter- 
ference of the British government to put a stop, at least in appearance, to the 
pi’actice, none of the prior governments that attained an ascendancy in India 
having ever attempted to suppress the custom. For its prevalence, various 
causes hare been assigned. Pride, avarice, the cares of a family, the disgrace 
attending female misconduct, the difficulty of procuring them suitable establish- 
ments, and the apprehension of exposing them to inhuman treatment ; all these 
combined have influenced the Jahrejahs in perpetuating tlie practice of female 
infanticide. The Jahrejahs, however, in this were not wholly singular, as the 
custom has also been discovered to exist among the Rhatpre Rajpoots of Joud- 
poor and Ajmeer, and the perpetration of the same crime has been traced to the 
Jauts, to a Mewatty race of Mahommedans, to the Ilari of Boondee and K^tah, 
the Waish, the Cutchwa, and to the Rajpoot tribes generally. Indeed,'^ the 
birth of a daughter is considered by most sects of Hindoos as an inferior event, 
and is rarely marked by any festivity or exultation. 

Tlie Jahrejahs carefully select wives from the most respectable Rajpoot fami- 
lies ; but prefer those of the Jhallas, sprung from the Goel, Churassana, Punnar, 
Surweyo, Jaitwa, Wala, and Wadal tribes. Such legitimate daughters as they 
preserve, they give in marriage to these castes; illegitimate daughters are 
bestowed on Mahommedans, or on Hindoos of impure caste indifferently, on 
which account the latter are not put to death like the others. It is remarkable 
that the concubines frequently burn themselves with the deceased Jahrejahs, 
which is rarely done by their wives. When Row Lacka, grandfather of the 
present chief of Cutch, died, 15 concubines burned at his funeral pile; but not 
one of his wives performed the sacrifice, although tliere is no law against it. 
Of these concubines two were Mahommedans, one a Seeden, and the rest 
Hindoos of difl'erent castes. This painful ceremony is less expected from the 
wives than from the concubines, who frequently consider it a point of honour 
to burn with their deceased lords, each inspired with the dreadful emulation of 
becoming the first victim. It may be necessary here to correct an opinion 
entertained by many Europeans, that these sacrifices are compulsory. The Jah- 
rejah’s wives and concubines are at liberty to follow this custom, or abstain 
from it, neither disgrace or opprobrium attaching to those who chuse to survive. 
It may be mentioned as anotW extraordinary deviation from Hindoo customs, 
that in the district of Hulwud, the wives of the lowest castes invariably bum 
witli their husbands. 

By the persevering exertions of Mr. Duncan, then governor of Bmnbty, and 
of Colonel Walker, commanding the detachment in Cattywmr, the Jahrejahs 



PXNIK8ULA.J OF OUJBRAT. 639 

were at length induced to sign a paper, agreeing to abolish the practice of 
female infanticide, which document comprehended within its obligations all the 
chieftains and leaders of any consequence within the Gujerat peninsula ; but 
the crime itself is one of which it is extremely difficult to obtain proof. Ac- 
cording to native testimony, when a woman is taken in labour, a large pot of 
milk is placed in the room, into which, if the birth be a female, it is immedi- 
ately thrown and suffocated. One estimate, in 1807, stated the number of 
infanticides throughout the whole peninsula at 5000 annually, while another 
raised it to 30,000 ; both founded on very uncertain data, and it is probable 
that, although greatly reduced, it is still secretly practised ; the sentiments of 
nature and humanity having long been so stifled by the passions of avarice and 
pride, that the right of destroying their daughters became a privilege, and re- 
garded as a dignified distinction of caste. 

In 1812, Witul Row, the Guicowar’s chief functionary in the Peninsula, in 
hopes of satisfying the anxiety of the British government, established mehtahs, 
or scribes, in the principal Jahrejah towns, with instructions to communicate 
the birth, preservation, and murder of female children, as soon as they received 
information of these occurrences ; but the jealousy with which these men were 
regarded, rendered their exertions nugatory ; and so long as no Jahrejah would 
himself communicate the condition of his wife, they found it in vain to seek 
information from any of his neighbours. Indeed, it would require very ex- 
traordinary exertions to arrive at the knowledge of the domestic transactions 
of 6000 families particularly interested in their concealment. In this country, 
no man without a reward will accuse another of an act, considered a crime by 
the ruling power, but which is looked on by themselves and their countrymen, 
not only without horror, but with approbation ; and if by accident, tliey did 
inform, their motives might be traced much oflener to a spirit of revenge, than 
a sense of justice. This observation applies to the natives of Hindostan gene- 
rally, but more especially to those among them who practice the cruel religious 
observances, wliich require mystery and solemnity to impose on the ignorant 
an impressive notion of their sanctity. No native, therefore, unless urged by a 
d^p-rooted enmity, will accuse another of an action deemed criminal by the 
government, but bearing among them the appearance of preternatural approba- 
tion, and reported as a practice of the caste from the fabulous ages. 

Although no strict evidence had been afforded of any Jahrejah having de- 
stroyed his offspring, since his engagement to abandon the practice, still, as the 
preservation up to 1816 of only 15 females could be vouched for, a strong sus- 
picion remains, that the practice of female infanticide in this quarter has not 



640 THE PROVINCE [gujerat 

yet been eradicated. To the universality of the practice, the Raja of Moorvee 
may be mentioned as an honourable exception, he having strictly adhered to 
his engagement, and reared two of his female children. In that year, the resi> 
dent at Baroda suggested to the Bombay government, that it would tend to 
ac(felerate the extinction of the practice, if the East India Company would de- 
fray or assist the expense of their nuptials ; but this proposal, on account of 
the strong injunctions to economy, annually received from the Court of Direc- 
tors by that Presidency, was declined. The expense of marrying the daughter, 
of the different Cattywar chiefs was as follows : The daughter ‘of the Jam o 
Noanagur, 35,000 rupees ; of an inferior raja, such as Moorvee, Goundul, oi 
Raujcote, 15,000 rupees ; a near relative' to the last, 7000 rupees ; and the mar- 
riage of a poor jahrejah’s daughter, from 1000 to 1500 rupees. \ 

Throughout this tract of country, the population is universally subdivided 
among Bhyauds (brotherhoods), under which term are comprehended the r^a- 
tions of the rajas, who hare villages assigned f^r their maintenance, which their 
descendants continue to enjoy, but which, on a failure of heirs, revert to the 
chief. In the Rajpoot families, the younger brethren receive a certain portion 
of their father’s property : but among those who are merely Grassias, the pro- 
j)erty of the father is equally divided among the younger sons ; the eldest, in 
particular cases, receiving one share more than the rest. In the chieftain's 
family, the claims of the younger brother extend no further than a subsistence, 
which generally amounts to one or two villages. The immediate brothers, or 
sons of the chieftain, have the choice of living in the family, or of receiving their 
share of the villages. 

The possessors of these villages and their descendants are the Bhyaud, or 
fraternity of the principal chief. In their own villages they are independent, 
but contribute their portion to the general tribute levied from the country. It 
results from these connexions, tliat the brotherhoods, according as they are 
actuated by the ties of blood and personal attachment, or stimulated by jealousy 
and enmity, are either a powerful support to the domestic strength of the chief, 
or a source of incessant agitation and alarm. Being all Rajpoots by caste, they 
are of course soldiers by profession, and perform military service in the defence 
of their villages and in the feuds of their chief; but as this employs only a small 
part of their time, and they contemn all other vocations, they are generally im^ 
mersed in idleness and dissipation. The increasing subdivision of property by 
descent, is a never-ending source of animosity and family dissention, and Re- 
quently at last it becomes alti^ther inadequate to the subsistence of the 
numerous claimants. The distraction originating from this cause is aggravated 



FENIHSULA.] OF GVJEIIAT. 641 

by the Mideavours of the superior chiefs to keep their possessions entire by 
secret and violent means ; to which were formerly superadded the depredations 
of the Catties, Juts, and the people of Wagur and Mallia. 

In this state of &mily connexion, the Rajpoot tribes are distinguished by a 
great degree of personal independence ; and all assert the right of revengii^ 
personal wrongs, real or imaginary ; from which also originates the practice of 
protecting fugitives and criminals, on a principle of honour which is scarcely 
ever violated. A Grassia, when he conceives himself insulted, frequently quits 
hif native vill^^e with all his tenants and dependants, which is allowed to con- 
tinue waste, and retreats to some convenient refuge, from whence he can gratify 
his revenge, and carry on his depredations with impunity. The number of small 
fortresses with which the country is overspread, and the want of artillery, render 
it easy for a fugitive to obtain an asylum from whence he may infest his enemies 
The right of private war is consequently universally asserted, and contests ensue 
frequently from frivolous causes, but always ruinous and destructive to the 
country. The forces employed consist principally of cavalry, and their exploits 
in the laying waste of each other’s villages, and the driving away of the cattle, 
until mutually exhausted by their respective excesses, a compromise ensues. 
Oh such occasions, coosamba is drank together by the contending chieftains ; 
this potion being here as in Cutch, to cause oblivion of the past and of here- 
ditary enmity, and co sanctify the recent reconciliation and future friendship. 
Under diese circumstances it is fortunate, in the absence of a stable government, 
that the influence of religion, or rather superstition, has some effect in restrain- 
ing their turbulent propensities. The veneration in which the Bhatts are hdid, 
and the inviolability of their persons, are assented to by the most uncivilized, 
and were repeatedly brought into action during the negotiations of the British 
government with the different chieftains of the Gujerat peninsula in 1809. 

After the death of Aurengzebe, when the Mogul empire fell to pieces, the 
Maharattas were the only power in India, which had the political union essen- 
tial to the consolidation of jarring interests, had it been consistent with their 
character to respect the independent rights of other countries, and to abstain 
firom predatory habits ; but as the object of their policy in making incursions 
into foreign territories, proceeded from the desire of plunder, the establish- 
nsent of their sovereignty over the petty states of the Gujerat peninsula does 
not appear in any instance to have been effectuated ; the different petty chief- 
tains having, by complying with their pecuniary demands when resistance was 
tSBtvailing, purchased their forbearance. 

PijMir to 1807, tile wh(de of this territory had been for many years tributary 
to tin CNiieowar, bat as may be inferred fr<^ tiie above description of its con- 

voi» I. 4 k 



THE PROVINCE 


642 


[gUJERAT EEKIKflUIA, 


dition, the revenue derived from it was altogether pisecarious, and could never 
be realized without riie periodical march of an army. By this mode of proce- 
dure, both parties suffered extremely ; the country being annually ravaged, the 
revenues dissipated, and the society excited to such a state of turbulence and 
commotion, as to threaten to disturb the tranquillity of the neighbouring dis- 
tricts. In this emergency, the Guicowar having requested the advice and 
mediation of the British government, a detachment from the Bombay army 
was in 1807 marched into Catty war, under Colonel Alexander Walker, which 
expedition had three objects in view ; viz. 1st, the reduction of Mallia and 
Khundadar, two dens of robbers ; 2d, the suppression of piracy ; and 3dly, to 
influence the negotiations then pending with Cutch. The whole of the^ ob- 
jects were satisfactorily effected, and a perpetual settlement concluded^ with 
the different chieftains of the peninsula, who engaged to pay their tribii^te to 
the Guicowar in future, without waiting the periodical advance of an arn^y to 
levy it. Colonel Walker’s report in that year stated, that the settlement of 
these revenues on account of the Guicowar was 979,882 rupees ; but the pira- 
tical and predatory states required further coercion, and were accordingly flned 
in the following sums ; viz. 


Bate Isle 

Rupees. 

. . . 110,000 

Gondul . . 

Rupees. 
. . 26,000 

Junaghur 

. . . 40,000 

Jooria . . 

. . 20,000 

Dwaraca 

. . . 18,181 

Bhownuggur 

. . 26,000 

Positra . 

. . . 66,000 

Khandadar . 

. . 26,000 


223,181 

Jooria . . 
Wandia . . 
Moorevee 

. . 60,000 
. . 76,000 
. . 26,000 

246,000 


by these proceedings of the British government, order and consistency were 
established among the several little communities, and tranquillity restored in a 
mode consonant to the sentiments and peculiarities of the country. 

In 1814, when the lease of Ahmedabad was expired, and the farm was re- 
stored to the Peshwa, he deputed officers to take charge, whose conduct was 
in the highest degree unjustifiable. He also attempted to establish a right of 
interference in the concerns of the peninsular chiefs, which on general princi- 
ples of policy could not be 'permitted, these chieftains having for ages past 
maintained their internal independence. No sovereigns of Hmdostan had ever 
reduced them to subjection, or drawn from their territories a regular portion of 
the produce of the soil ; they having invariably fimndlt niore advantageoua to 



OF GUJERAT. 


CATTYWAB.I 


643 


accept a pecuniary compensation than to prosecute a doubtful contest to ex- 
tremity. On these grounds the British government opposed every attempt on 
the part of the Peshwa to introduce a greater degree of authority into Catty- 
Mrar, than he had prior to the treaty of Bassein and the settlement of the Cat- 
tywar tribute. This settlement has been usually termed* “ decennial,” but the 
term referred to the collateral security, renewable every ten years, according 
to the custom of the country ; the tribute, in lieu of the Moolock Geery claims 
(to prevent invasion) on the Cattywar chieftains, having been fixed in per- 
petuity, and while they continued to fulfil tlie engagements they had contracted, 
the British government was pledged to secure to them the privileges they had 
derived from their ancestors. With the* view of accomplishing this object and 
of excluding all foreign influence, in 1818, the farm of Ahmedabad was ten- 
dered to the Guicowar, in lieu of half the Cattywar tribute, and being accepted 
by him, the management of this turbulent peninsula has since rested entirely 
with the British government. — ( Walker, Macmurdo, Carnac, Public MS. Docu- 
ments, ^c. 4’c. j 

Naone River. — A small river in the Gujerat peninsula, which rises in a 
range of hills 14 miles to the south-east of Lawria, passes the city of Noanagur, 
and afterwards falls into the shallow part of the gulf of Cutch, here called the 
Runn. The name of this river is derived from a fabulous traditionary story, of 
an. enormous nag, or snake, which dwelt in a tank among the hills ; and, en- 
deavouring to escape from his enemies, burst the bank, and formed the channel 
of the river. Its waters are esteemed by the natives as having a quality pecu- 
liarly suited for the dyeing of cloth. 


CATTYWAR (Cattivad). 

As has been already mentioned, this appellation is frequently applied by the 
natives to the whole of the Gujerat peninsula, although in fact it only occupies 
a portion of the interior, distinguished into four divisions : 1st, reckoning from 
the north, is Punchal ; 2d, Bansawar ; 3d, Alug ; 4th, Khooman. The division 
of Cattywar Proper is bounded on the north by Jhallawar ; on the south by Bab- 
reeawar ; on the east by Goelwara ; and on the west by Soret. The northern 
tracts are of an unequal surface ; and southern in the neighbourhood of Babreea- 
war (which may be said also to belong to Cattywar), jungly and woody. Vad, 
a fl^ce or division in the Gujerattee language, is a very common termination 
for the names of districts in this quarter, which syllable is frequently changed 
into var, and war, by Europeans, as Cattywar, for Cattivad. The soil and 
app^trence of this district are variable, but in general the first is of a sandy 
nature, much mixed with a reddish coloured rock, of which last substance, the 

4 K 2 



(544 THB PROVINCE tc^iwwAE. 

hills axe composed. These, although not lofty, axe numerous, and being defi- 
cient in wood c<mtribute to give the surface a barren and uncultivated aspect. 
Its produce in grain is confined to the coarser sorts, among which bajaree and 
joaree are abundant and excellent, to which may be added a second or after 
harvest of wheat, available in February. This last crop is promoted by irrigation 
from the wells, with which the southern parts of Cattywax abound. The horses 
reared on this territory are reckoned the best breeds of the peninsula, and the 
Caitties themselves give a preference to that of the Choteela hiU. In some parts 
of Cattywar wood and fuel are so scarce, that frequently the inhabitants of a 
village are expelled merely for the sake of the fire-wood available from their 
dwellings. • I 

Like all other nations the Catties are desirous of asserting an ancient, heri ^ic, 
and miraculous origin. Their traditions ascend to the conclusion of the Dwapar 
Yug, when the five Pandoos, by bad luck or foul play at hazard, were compell^ 
to quit'their native country, and remain in secret exile for 12 years. At the end 
of seven years they arrived at Berat, or Dholka, where they were discovered by 
the spies of their enemy Durjhodun. To oblige them to emerge from their con- 
cealment, and thereby forfeit the pledge they had given to remain secret, Cama, 
the offspring of the Sun, and prime minister of Durjhodun, suggested the expe- 
dient of making a predatory attack on the cattle of Berat, which would compel 
every true Rajpoot warriorto quit the fortifications to effect their recovery. But 
for so base a scheme Rajpoots could not be employed, which difficulty Cama 
removed by striking a rod he held in his hand on the ground, the rod opened and 
out issued a man, who, being produced from wood, was termed Khat. On this 
newly created being devolved the task of stealing the cattle, and to reconcile him 
to the enterprize he was informed by Cama that the gods would never reckon the 
commission of a robbery criminal in him or his descendants, more especially when 
the property abstracted consisted of cattle. Of Cama the Catties continue to 
spee^ with veneration, and to worship the Sun his father, inscribing the figure 
of that luminary on every written deed and document which jhey have occasion 
to execute. 

The same traditionary accounts state, that tbe Aborgines of the country, before 
the arrival of the Catties, were the Aheers and Babreeas ; the latter said to be 
descended from the Aheers by a Coolie mother ; and they continue still to inter- 
marry. After their arrival in thqjQujerat peninsula, the Catties wandered ibout 
with thehr flocks for many yeiprs on the great pastoral wastes, and embraced every 
opportunity of plundering fiheir neighbours. About 260 years ago it is supposed 
some of them became stationary. The first regular settlements were Sudamn* 
Quddra, and Bhudlee, within the limits of which they were long confined. Most 



CATTYWAB.] OF GUJERAT. 645 

of tiieir subsequent acquisitions were diade on the decline of the Mahommedan 
power, when they occupied large tracts of country, which, from incessant dis- 
sensioh, had returned to a state of nature. In 1807, they still followed their 
vocation of thieves and robbers, which appellations they openly assumed ; and 
at that date their most celebrated leaders were the chiefs of Dhundulpoor, Su- 
damra, Choteela,. Morwar, Sejukpoor, Bemora, Choubarrea, and Anunpoor. 

The Catties, as a tribe, are difficult to class. The three principal families are 
the Tratcher, the Trowa, and the Walla, some of whom profess to be horse- 
breeders. Tl:«^ Aheers, or herdsmen, who appear to have been the aborigines 
of the country, mostly compose the mass of the cultivators, and with them 
many Catties have intermarried. In ene respect they differ essentially, as a 
genuine Catty never pays any fiscal demand, or parts with any portion of his 
own rearing. Several Catty chieftains pay revenue, but it is realized fi*om the 
herds and cultivators. The tribe is not numerous, and their mode of life is 
un&vourable to an increase of population ; as besides their predatory habits 
externally, the Catties are never without domestic feuds and private animosities, 
prosecuted with extreme treachery and cruelty; to which causes may be added 
the plundering expeditions of the Guicowar, the Peshwa, the Nabob of Juim- 
ghur, and the Jam of Noanagur, which harassed the inhabitants, suspended the 
cultivation, and depopulated the villages. The different petty chiefs possess 
many small fortresses where they secure their plunder, but they are principally 
formidable from the excellence of their horses, and the celerity of Aeir move- 
ments. 

On their pillaging expeditions the Catties, who are all cavalry, hire merce- 
naries, both to augment their numbers and procure matchlockmen, it being 
esteemed by them disgraceful to carry fire-arms. When they cannot procure 
mercenaries of good caste, Dheras and Guddaees are taken, and to the latter, as 
their name implies, all the captured asses are assigned. The Catty horse- 
breeders sell the males, but reserve the mares for their ovm riding, in preference 
to the horses, on account of the disposition of the latter to neigh. They are 
greatly afraid of fire-arms, and easily deterred from attacking where they expect 
to meet with them. On this account smtdl mud towers are erected at a distance 
firom villages, to which the cultivators retire with their cattle w|ien the approach 
of the Catties is observed. 

The Catties are distinguished by two general appellations; ShsJcarjut, (lie 
descttidants of a Walla Rajpoot and Catty female ; and the Oortea, who are the 
desooKlants of the original Catties. The Aheers and Babreeas may be consi- 
as belonging tp the latter class; but in Cattywar the prejudices of caste 
hate but little infltuuice. AH ^ sons of a Catty succeed equally to the property 



646 THE PROVINCE [cattIywab, 

of their father ; but the daughters are excluded from the inheritance. They may 
marr^ any number of wives, but they generally restrict theselves to two. They 
are greatly under the influence of their females, who are proverbially graceful 
and beautiful, and who frequently alleviate the miseries of the prisoners, whom 
theif husbands put to the torture to extort large ransoms, or the discovery of 
concealed treasure. The male Catties are in general athletic men, whose dress 
does not materially differ from that of the Rajpoots and Grassias, except that 
they wear a peaked turban. 

When an elder brother dies, leaving a widow, she invariably becomes the pro- 
perty of the younger brother, unless she altogether decline any future connexmn 
for life. The wife of the younger brother, on the death of her spouse, is left \to 
do as she pleases. When a Cattrijanie (female Catty) dies, her nearest relations 
take possession of the moveable property and of the children, who are thus witli- 
drawn from their father, and educated by the relations of their deceased mothei^ 
All criminal offenders against society find refuge with this tribe, who seldom 
betray them, although very treacherous to each other. They are all addicted 
to spirituous liquors and opium, both of which they take to excess. 

The Catties worship the sun, but they have only one temple, situated near 
Thaun,. which contains an image of that heavenly body. Their priests atre Raj- 
gors, whose functions appear limited to the performance of marriage and of 
obsequies for deceased ancestors. Their religious feelings are but feeble, and 
they possess no litany or form of prayer. Placing their hands in a posture of 
adoration and looking at the sun, they supplicate his favour in such extempo- 
raneous language as ^eir conception of his omnipotence suggests. On the days 
of funeral solemnities, in place of throwing food to the cows as is done by other 
Hindoo castes, they give it to the lapwings. As may be supposed, they are very 
superstitious and rely greatly on omens, the most important of which is the call 
of a partridge, to the right or left, the last being an auspicious signal. Before 
commencing an expedition they invoke the favour of the sun, Bheenath, and 
such other gods as they place confidence in, promising them a diare of the spoil. 
When a sum of money is thus promised to Ae sun, the amount is expended in 
victuals, and eaten in his name by his votaries in the village. 

That this territory has enjoyed an era of greater prosperity than it now pre- 
sents, may be inferred from the fact, that when Col. Walker’s detachment 
marched through Cattywar in 1807, it passed 30 towns and villages waste and 
destroyed ; of ^eliuildings some vestiges were still visiUe, but of many (fthers 
nothing tim ntw aiM^ Su^ of the vSlagiM as had not 

been deserted were mortgai^ to creditors by their chiefr, whose cldldreR 
and relatives were hostage fiw ^ payment of the revenue. Redut^d to this 



JHALAWAB.] OF GUJERAT. 64 ? 

extremity, rapine and open robbery were their only resources, and these they 
exercised without the slightest remorse or shame, openly proclaiming themselves 
thieves and robbers. In this exigence. Colonel W alker's first operations were to 
reduce the forts of Khundadar and Mallia, which served as depots for the 
plunder of the Catties and Meannas, and by affording an asylum encouraged 
their depredations. By these and other well concerted measures, Colonel 
Walker succeeded in curbing the licentious disposition of the Meannas, and in 
settling the affairs of the turbulent Catties ; but little dependence can be placed 
on a tribe of such predatory habits, averse to labour and subordination, and hav- 
ing nothing to lose, prone to resort to pursuits tending to gratify their wandering 
inclinations and love of plunder. — ( Weaker, Alacmurdo, Drummond, 8gc. Sgc.) 

Cheetul. — A town in the Gujerat peninsula, 83 miles N.N.E. from Diu 
Head. Lat. 21“ 42' N. long. 71° 9 E. 

Daumnaour. — A town in the Gujerat peninsula, 78 miles N. N. E. from Diu 
Head. Lat. 21° 34' N. long. 71“ 35' E. 

Gariadhar. — A town in the Gujerat peninsula, 44 miles W. from the gulf of 
Cambay. Lat. 21“ 30' N. long. 71° 41' E. 

Paylad. — ^A n inland town of the Gujerat peninsula, district of Cattywar, 46 
miles west from the gulf of Cambay. Lat. 22“ 14' N. long. 71“ 41' E. At this 
place there was a detachment of the Bombay army permanently stationed, in 
1809, for the protection of the British interests in this quarter of Gujerat. Its 
position is about 12 miles west of Ranpoor, which was formerly the most wes- 
terly British military post in the province.-— ("PaW/c MS. Documents, ^c.) 

Sirdhar. — T his was formerly a place of consequence, the chief of which 
controuled 700 villages; but the possessions of the family iiave gradually dimi- 
nished to their present insignificance, and Ranjeote has become the seat of 
government. It stands nearly in the centre of the Gujerat peninsula. Lat. 22* 
S' N. long. 71“ 5' E. — (Walker, 8^c.) 

Jhalawar. — ^T his district occupies the northern portion of the Gujerat 
peninsula, extending along the gulf of Cutch and the Runn, between the 22d 
and 23d degrees of north latitude. By Abul Fazel it is described as follows, 
under the name of Chalawar, and in his time had much more extensive dimensions 
than can at present be assigned to it. ** Chalawareh was formerly an inde- 
pendent country, but is now subject to the governor of Gujerat, and inhabited 
by the tribe of Chalah.” The modem division of Jhalawar is said by tiadition 
to derive its name from the tribe of Rajpoots, who still principally possess the 
land. Their original seat of authority was at Dhama, now a small village 
between Adriana and Jhingwara, where, at a very early period, the family of 
Burrai^fdra (from whom the Jhala chieftains are deseeded), are said to have 



648 THE PROVINCE [uum. 

resided, but at present no traces remain of its former grandeur. The face of the 
country is level, and, excepting in the neighbourhood of Plages, destitute of 
wood. The chief grain produce is wheat, of which a considerable quantity is 
exported to the different markets of Gujerat. Cotton is also an important ex- 
port, either directly to Cutch, or by the routes of Dollerah, Gogo and* Show- 
nuggur. 

The Rajpoots in this part of Gujerat are divided into three classes ; the Jee- 
namas, the Kuraria, and the Naroda. The first are respectable, and addressed 
with the title of jee ; the scond have resigned some part of their rank, and 
perform menial offices; the last have wholly relinquished their military character, 
cultivate land, and are now degraded to the rank of Koonbees,. or cultivatop. 
But even these last in this distracted territory must resort to arms, as every 
cultivator is obliged to carry his weapons with him to the field he tills ; and ^t 
the different villages a person is mounted in a high tree to announce the approacli 
of horse, and afford time to the villagers to drive in their cattle, which are their 
principal riches. When these are seized by depredators, they are usually driven 
across the Runn into Wagur and Cutch, where they find a ready market. As 
may be supposed under 'such circumstances, a great part of the district is but 
thinly inhabited, and remains in a state of nature, although some appearances 
authorize the conjecture, that it formerly enjoyed a superior condition. The 
principal towns are Durrangdra, Wudwan, Limree, Hulwud, Wankaneer, and 
Morevee. It has long been under nominal subjection to the Guicowar, but he 
derived little revenue from the territory until 1807, when by the able measures 
adopted by Colonel Walker, the Jhalawar chieftains agreed to pay a fixed tribute 
in perpetuity of 295,574 annually. On this occasion, although the country was 
relieved from a permanent burthen, yet the Guicowar government actually 
derived a much larger revenue than ever had been received before. —('RWIter, 
Macamrdo, ^'c. ^.) 

DuRRANonaA. — ^The Durrangdra Raja is the chief of all the Jhala Rajpoots, 
and enjoys the privilege of being seated on a cot, while the other chieftains are 
placed on a carpet. The town is situated about 40 miles east of Mallia, lat. 
22* 54' N. long. 71* 35' £. but at present the seat of the principality is Hulwud. 
In 1807, the annual tribute to be paid to the Guicowar was fixed at 74,<K)0 
rupees. — (Walker, 

Hulwud.— This town stands alltout 33 miles £. by S. from Mallu^ hnd is 8ie 
modem capital of the Jhala Rajpoots. Lat. 22* 51' N. long. 71® 16' E. 

Limree. — ^This is a m<mied town in the Gujerat pdbinsula, the shroffii, or 
banters, of wdiich possess such capital and infilumice, itet they greatly rqfulate 
tte currency of the country. The town is situated 11 miles S. S. B. Itetti 



VANKANEER.] OF GUJERAT. 649 

Wudwan, lat. 22® 36^ N. long. 71“ 64' E. and in 1807, paid tribute to the Gui- 
cowar, amounting to 51,931 rupees. — (Walker, Public MS. Documents, ^'c.) 

WuDWAV. — ^This is a town of considerable extent and population, being about 
the size of Sylah, and possessing a fort of considerable strength almost new. 
It stands in lat. 22* 42' N. long. 71“ 47' E. and belongs to a Rajpoot family 
celebrated for their skill and bravery in predatory warfare, and was, in 180G, 
besieged for two months without success by the Guicowar’s army. In 1807, 
through the mediation of Colonel Walker, the tribute payable to that potentate 
was permanently fixed at 28,831 rupees. 

Ghee, hemp and leather are brought to this place from Puttunwara in waggons, 
and carried from hence to Bhownuggur,' on the gulf of Cambay, from whence 
they are exported by sea. Formerly these caravans required an escort of from 
20 to 50 matchlock men, who were paid at the rate of one-fourth of a rupee for 
30 miles distance. It is customary at the villages in this quarter to place a man 
on the top of a high tree, and when he perceives horsemen, he waves a flag and 
springs a large rattle, after which the village drums beat to arms, and the com- 
batants repair to their respective posts. — ( Macmurdo, Walker, 8^'c. ^x.) 

Chowera. — A town in the Gujerat peninsula, 30 miles E. by N. fromiWan- 
kaneer. This place stands on an eminence, and is surrounded by a high stone 
wall with square towers in a ruinous state. 

Sylah (' or Saeela ). — A large fortified town in the Gujerat peninsula, possessed 
by a Rajpoot chieftain, but formerly tributary to the Guicowar. It occupies 
more ground than Wankaneer, but is not so well fortified. To the south it has 
a large sheet of water which covers that face. Lat. 22“ 33' N. long. 71“ 37' E. 
(Macmurdo, ^c.) 

Lonsir. — A village in the Gujerat peninsula, situated about 15 miles N. E. 
from the town of Wankaneer, to whose chief it belongs. From hence to Choor- 
vera the country has a very wild appearance ; the hills are bleak, and partly 
covered with a wild prickly shrub, while the plains are overspread with short 
thick jungle, presenting few traces of cultivation. The villages are miserable 
in the extreme, and being generally placed on the most prominent point of a 
black rocky mountain, are only distinguishable by the smoke ascending from 
their hovels. The inhabitants of these villages are chiefly Catties, Bheels, and 
Rickbarries. A similar description of country extends all the way to the 
Caioteela hills.— f Macmurdo, ^c.) 

Wankaneer. — ^This town stands on an angle formed by the conflux of the 
river Muchoo with an inferior stream named the Patalia. It is long and narrow, 
and surrounded by a great wall with towers and bastions, comprehending about 

VOL. I. 4 0 



650 THE PROVINCE [maiua. 

6000 houses, with a good bazar. A pious Mahommedan Sheikh has here erected 
an elegant mosque, but unfortunately the sacred recess for prayer is not due 
west (looking towards Mecca), and the whole is consequently useless. The 
town lies so directly under a range of lofty mountains that it is entirely com- 
manded, and during the rains the Patalia inundate!} the streets. In tite dry 
season, however, it diminishes to a slender stream in a low bed, owing to which 
circumstance its name is derived from Patala, signifying the infernal regions. 
Wankaneer stands in lat. 22® 27' N. long. 70® 58' E. and, in 1807, had its quota 
of tribute to the Guicowar fixed by Colonel Walker at 18,000 rupees. — (Mac- 
murda. Walker, Sgc.) j 

Morevee. — ^This is the principal to^n of the district of Muchoo Kaunm, or 
the country lying on the banks of the river Muchoo, and is situated abou| 21 
miles south from the Runn. Lat. 29° 39' N. long. 70° 68' E. The town Wd 
lands attached were granted to the ancestors of the present family (a youn^r 
branch of that of the Row of Cutch) in the 37th year of the reign of the Em- 
lieror Acber, in return for the surrender of the unfortunate Sultan Muzuffer of 
Gujerat. In 1809, Kooer Dosajee, the chief of this place, was prevailed on by 
Colonel Walker, to renounce the practice of female infanticide, and in 1816, 
was mentioned by the Bombay government as an honourable exception to the 
other Jahrejah chiefs, who were supposed still to perpetrate the crime in secret. 

Dhtrsa. — ^A small village in the Gujerat peninsula, situated near the Runn, 
in the district of Morevee. At this place are many tuneral monuments, one of 
which is in commemoration of a mother who voluntarily burned herself with her 
son ; these immolations not being restricted to the death of a husband. The 
river Phoolyer, with a small clear stream and high rugged banks, runs past this 
village. — ( Macmurdo, ^c.) 

Mallia. — ^A fortress in the Gujerat peninsula, situated on the river Muchoo, 
which, having passed Wankaneer in the interior, empties itself into the Runn, 
two miles and a half below this place. The surrounding country is low, and 
slopes off towards the Runn ; in the rainy season it is a marsh for many miles. 
Lat. 22° 66' N. long. 70° 66' E. 

Prior to 1809 , Mallia was occupied by a Sindean tribe of Meannas, who had 
been settled here for several generations, and from their first establishment had 
gained such an ascendancy, that they plundered the country and committed the 
most atrocious acts of cruelty wkh impunity. These Meannas were principally 
infantry, and excelled in the use of the sword. Many efforts had been made by 
the neighbouring chieftains to extirpate this banditti, but all their efforts were 
unavailing, and only increased the reputation of the robbers, whose strong hold 
came to be considered asdmpregnable. In 1809 , when Colonel Walker’s detach- 



HALLAUR.] OF GUJERAT. 651 

ment was sent from Bombay to restore tranquillity to this long distracted 
country ; one of his first undertakings was the rooting out of this den of thieves, 
who depopulated the country for many miles round Mallia, and obliged the 
inhabitants to desert their fields and villages. He accordingly encamped under 
the walls, and the garrison who defended [it having rejected every attempt at 
negotiation, it was determined to attempt it by storm in open day, a few hours 
after the opening of the batteries, and in the presence of many of the native 
chiefs. 

In storming Mallia, the resistance In the first instance, was small, although the 
foot of the wall was found lined with a doolcote, which is a strong w6rk thrown 
up composed of thorns and earth, but as. the assailants advanced it became more 
serious, and the durbar, or court-house, which was surrounded by a' high wall, 
afforded a retreat inaccessible to assault. An 18-pounder and some sixes were 
in consequence opened on it, but the evening was too far advanced to admit of 
the operations being completed. The effect however was such, that during the 
night it was evacuated by the enemy, except a few who staid to maintain an 
occasional firing, while the rest fled across the Runn into the province of Cutch, 
among whom was the chief Jahrejah Dosajee. On this occasion 31 Europeans 
and 51 sepoys were killed and wounded; and it is remarkable that Captain 
Mackenzie, who led the storm,’ and Captain Wilkinson, died from the mere vio- 
lence of their exertions, without a wound or a scratch. — ( Macmurdo, Walker, 
Wth Register, ^c.) 

Balumba. — A town in the Gujerat peninsula, situated on the gulf of Cutch. 
Lat. 22" 40' N. long. 70" 36' E. 

WbwAMiA. — A small fishing town in the Gujerat peninsula, about six miles 
distant from where the fortress of Mallia stood. Lat. 22° 50' N. long. 70° 47' E. 
This place stands on the Runn, and here there is a ferry established for trans- 
porting passengers to the Cutch shore. It forms a small independency pos- 
sessed by a native chief. — (Macmurdo, ^c.) 

SoNGHUR. — A village in the Gujerat peninsula, situated in a wild country, 
about 25 miles N. W. from Wankaneer. On a hill adjacent to this place is an 
ancient Hindoo temple, dedicated to the sun ; on the cornices and sides of which 
are representations of battles, carved on marble slabs, and in a style much 
superior to modern Hindoo sculpture. The hill on which it stands appears to 
have been formerly fortified, and the remains of houses executed in the above 
style are still visible. 

Hallaur (or Halawar ), — ^This division derives its present name from Halla, 
a Jahrejah chief, and comprehends the whole of the country conquered by his 
descendants. The boundary of this territory on the north is the gulf of Cutch ; 

4o2 



652 THE PROVINCE [uAtLAUR. 

on the west the Bumdda mountains, the ocean, and Okamundel ; on the soudi 
the river Bhadur and Cattywar ; on the east the district of Muchoo Kaunta, 
and Jhalawar. The eastern parts are hilly and rocky, but the soil in general is 
light and well adapted for the cultivation of bajaree, jowaree, and in some puts 
wh^at. The bajaree of Hallaur, and the cotton from the upper parts about 
Amrun and Jooria, are exported in considerable quantities to Cutch, and thence 
to Bombay. This district is not generally fertile, but there are particular spots 
in a high state of cultivation. Trees are seldom to be met with in Hallaur, to 
femedy which the Jam of Noanagur ordered the heads of villages to plant a 
certain number of mangoe trees annually. The Hallars never shoe their horjses, 
yet they gallop at full speed over the worst ground, their hoofs becoming as hard 
as the rocks they tread on. They also make a practice of suspending ragsWn 
trees, and piling stones on each other by the road side. An itinerant devoUe 
hangs a piece of his garment on a tree, which rag is seen by travellers, wl^o 
follow the example of the sage, and the tree becomes a consecrated peer or saint, 
and is styled the Chintra Peer, or ragged saint. 

According to native traditions the four Jadoos, who escaped the fate of their 
brethren^ were preserved in Sinde by the care of the goddess Bhavani Hinglais. 
One was concealed in her mouth, hence the Jahrejahs ; one under her bangles, 
hencq the Churassuma ; one under her cushion of state, hence the Churkutta ; 
and one in the fire-place, hence the Bhatties. To the Jahrejahs she assigned 
Sinde ; to the Churassumas, Soreth ; to the Churkutta, Hastinapoor ; and to 
the Bhatties, Jesselmere. Such is the fabulous history of the Halla Jahrejahs ; 
but at present few of the independent chiefs trace their lineage beyond Rawul, 
the youngest son of Raj Humeer, the sovereign of Cutch. This prince (Rawul) 
usurped the throne of his father, but was afterwards compelled to resign it to 
his brother, and leave the country. He in consequence crossed the Runn at 
Mallia, and proceeded to Amran, which he seized, and finally established his 
head-quarters at a village named Nagne, where Noanagur now stands. He after- 
wards succeeded in cutting off the Rana of Poorbunder by treachery, and 
extended his frontier to the Runn of Okamundel. His followers he exhorted to 
conquer and keep what they could, so effectually, that in a few years this race 
of Halla Rajpoots had added 400 villages to their possessions, which subse- 
quently received the name of Hallaur, an appellation it still retains. 

The principal independent Jahrf^ahs, after the Jam of Noanagur, are the chiefs 
of Dehrole, Rajacote, Goundul, Kottra, and Drauppa ; but the interior admi- 
nistration of these petty states is entirely in the han^ of the Nagne Bnybimins, 
who promote and encourage the dissipation of their respective chiefs : so that 
until fhe interference of t^ ^tish, confusion, anarchy and dissension prevailed 



NOAKAOua.] OF GUJERAT. 653 

in every division and subdivisbn of ibis miserable country. — ( Macmurde, Walker, 

Noanagur (Navamgur, the new city ). — ^The Jam of Noanagur, in respect to 
territory, revenue, and resources, may be reckoned the most considerable chief- 
tain in the Gujerat peninsula. His capital stands in lat. 22® 56' N. long. 70“ 
14' E. about seven miles south from the gulf of Cutch. The district of Noana- 
gur coMists of four, divisions, viz. Nuggur, Kumbalia (or Surya), Sutchana, and 
Jooria, the last of which has been alienated by the Khowas family. The coun- 
try inland from this city is extremely rocky, but it produces plentiful crops of 
joaree, growing apparently out of the stones, so entirely is the soil concealed. 
What is sown in the narrow vallies in October is reaped in May and June. In 
the neighbourhood of the small villages the sugar cane is cultivated. This crop is 
so hazardous, that in India it is usually only raised under peaceable governments, 
where the peasantry are in good circumstances, and secure of reaping where 
they have sown. The expenses of agriculture here are comparatively small, 
water being so near the surface, and the Gujerat peninsula, generally, having 
many small streams with low banks, so as to admit of irrigation. 

The town of Noanagur is asserted by the natives to be three coss in circum- 
ference, and defended by a wall of no great strength, built about 35 years ago. 
It contains many weavers 'who manufacture a considerable quantity of coarse 
and fine cloth, some sorts of a very beautiful fabric. From hence Catty war is 
supplied with this article, which is also exported to other parts of Gujerat. The 
small river Nagne flows under the walls of Noanagur, and is supposed by the 
natives to possess some quality peculiarly favourable to the dyeing of cloth, for 
the excellence of which the town is celebrated. All the Noanagur villages 
within 12 or 15 miles of the Ruun have walls for their defence. The cultivators 
generally pay one third of the produce to government, which appoints a person 
to value the crop ; besides this, a tax is levied on animals, and another on men. 
Korees are struck in Cutch under the authority of the Row, and others under 
that of the Jam of Noanagur. It is a small handsome silver coin, with Hindui 
characters, and its average value four to a rupee. Not far from Noanagur, are 
two or three beds of pearl oysters, which contain pearls of an inferior quality ; 
and even these by improper management are already nearly exhausted. 

The appellation of Jam to the chieftain of Noanagur, is a title of honour which 
has descended from his ancestors. The Hindoos derive it from a Sanscrit source, 
and the Mahommedans from Jumsheed, a renowned sovereigit of Persia, but 
they are both ignorant of its true import. It is, however, assumed by the chief 
of Noanagur only ; the other chiefs of Hallaur merely prefixing the word Jah- 
rejah before their names. Their sons are called Kooer. In &e families of Uie 



654 THE PROVINCE [ooundvi. 

Row of Cutch, and Jam of Noanagur, when any chief ascends the throne, a 
Mattiny, or priest of the Dhers (a very low caste), steps forward, and with his 
blood marks his forehead. Until this species of anointment has taken place, 
none of his subjects salute him as chief, and the ceremony is repeated annually 
durjng the dusserah. The Jahrejahs generally have but little regard for any 
religion. In 1808, Jam Jessajee of this petty principality was considered a 
convert to the faith of Mahommed, of which he observed all the external forms, 
and held the Brahmins in execration. 

The British government came first into contact with this native state in the 
year 1808, when Jessajee, the reigning Jam, engaged with the Bombay govern- 
ment not to permit, instigate, or connive at any act of piracy committed by any 
person under his authority, and also to abstain from plundering vessels in distrcl^s ; 
reciprocal freedom of trade being permitted. In the same year, the perpetii^al 
tribute payable to the Guicowar state by that of the h oanagur chief was, through 
the mediation of Colonel Walker, fixed at 95,000 rupees. From this period the 
Noanagur government afforded the best example of good order and subordina- 
tion to the other principalities of the Gujerat peninsula, in consequence of which, 
in 1815, the British government was induced to support the Jam against the 
rebellious proceedings of the Jooria chief, who had imported a large body of 
Arabs from Cutch, and treacherously possessed himself of several forts the 
property of Noanagur. On this occasion Jam Santajee, who had succeeded his 
brother Jessajee on the 5th August 1814, defrayed the expense of the Bombay 
detatchment, amounting to 850,000 rupees, a portion of which was assigned over 
to the Guicowar, part of the force subsidized by him having been employed. — 
(Macmurdo, Walker, Public MS. Documents, ^'c. ^x.) 

Raujcote. — A town near the centre of the Gujerat peninsula, the chief of 
which, Kooer Dadajee, was in 1809 prevailed on to renounce the practice of 
infanticide. Lat. 22° 12' N. long. 70° 57' E. In 1808, the perpetual tribute 
payable to the Guicowar by the chiefs of Rajcote and Sindhar was fixed at 
20.500 rupees. 

Gouxdul. — ^A central town of the Gujerat peninsula, 37 miles N. N. E. from 
Junaghur. Lat. 21° 54' N. long. 70°58'E. This was originally a small village 
belonging to the government of Soreth, and most of the territory now possessed 
by the chiefs of Goundul was acquired from the nabobs of Junaghur, as remu- 
neration for pecuniary assistance supplied them at different times. In 1808 
these lands were tolerably well cttkivated, at which period the perpetual tribute 
payable by the chiefs of Goundul to the Guicowar state was fixed by Colonel 
Walker at 115,000 rupees annually. In the next year, during the expedition of 
that officer through Oattywar, tite Goundul Raja was fined for encouraging 



AMEAN.] OF GUJERAT. 655 

the depredations of the Catties, permitting them to sojourn in tus dominions, 
and conniving at the infanticide of his son’s daughter. — (Walker, Public MU. 
Documents, Sgc.) 

Khundadab. — fortress in the Gujerat peninsula, district of Cattywar, the 
site of which is uncertain. On the 16th June, 1809, it was surrendered to Col. 
Walker’s detachment without resistance, when it was transferred to the custody 
of the chief of Goundul, who besides giving an equivalent to the native chief- 
tain, contributed 25,000 rupees towards the expense of its reduction. The gar- 
rison consisted of 300 Sindean troops. While arranging the capitulation, the 
native chiefs of this place transmitted a petition to Colonel Walker, in which 
they designated themselves the thieves* of Khundadar, and congratulated them- 
selves in having him for their destroyer, as theywould thereby attain paradise. — 
( Public MS. Documents, Walker, S^'c.) 

Kumbalia (or Surya). — A town in the Gujerat peninsula, subject to the 
Jam of Noanagur, and situated near the gulf of Cutch. Lat. 22° 12' N. long. 
69° 46' E. This place is populous, and contains many houses inhabited by 
Gogla Brahmins, who are attendants on Runchor (an incarnation of Vishnu) at 
Dwaraca. 

Seryah (Surya). — A town on the Gujerat peninsula, situated on the gulf of 
Cutch, 40 miles E. by N. from Juggeth Point. Lat. 29° 19' N. long. 69° 44' E. 

JooRiA. — A populous and thriving sea-port town in the Gujerat peninsula, 
situated on the gulf of Cutch, 24 miles N. W. from Noanagur. Lat. 22° 37' N. 
long. 70' 26° E. This place carries on a brisk trade with Mandavie and other 
places in the gulf of Cutch, and occasionally with Bombay. 

SuTCHANA. — ^This town belongs to the Jam of Noanagur, and is situated to 
the east of that city. An extensive fishery is carried on along this part of the 
gulf of Cutch, and the dried fish are transported to the interior on horses and 
bullocks. The pearl oyster is also found here, and is made a source of revenue. 
( Macmurdo, 8gc.) 

Amban. — A town and fortress with a small district adjacent, situated in the 
Gujerat peninsula, 22 miles S. W. from Mallia. Lat. 22° 41' N. long. 72° 43' £. 
Near to one of the adjacent villages is a monument erected to commemorate a 
traga, committed in 1807 by aRajghur Brahmin. To deter his superior, Hiijee 
Khowas, from depriving him of some lands in the vicinity, he led his mother to 
the gate of Amran, and there cut off her head, which had the desired ^ect. 
Instances of this sort are frequent in Gujerat, and on most occasions the victim, 
whether male or female, not only consent? to, but glories in the death inflicted. 
Tlie person who is in many caras the innocent cause of the catastrophe, is con- 
sidered by the Brahminical code as damned for ever ; while the wretch, who, 



656 THE PROVINCE [oKAHOHDft. 

for his own profit, perpetrates the murder, is not only held innocent by his fellow- 
citizens, but suffers no pang either of heart or conscience. — (Macmurio, ^,) 

Okamundel (Ukamandala). — ^Tfiis district begins at Kumbalia, from whence 
west by south the surface consists of hill and dale, with a hard rocky soil. It 
presents a very wild aspect, few villages, no cultivation, and abundance of milk 
bush, well stocked with hares, partridges, and other species of game. This 
state of desolation was caused by the Positra plunderers, who reduced a con- 
siderable portion of the district to a waste, covered with jungle, in some places 
scarcely penetrable. These robbers were expelled by a Bombay detachment in 
1809. The word oka signifies any thing bad or difficult, in which sense lit is 
applied to this wild and uncouth district. In modem times the term Okamundel 
is principally applied to the western extremity of the Gujerat peninsula, sepa- 
rated from the main land of Hallaur and Burudda, by a runn or swamp, formed 
by the sea making a breach from the north-western shore, near Pindtaruk ; and 
extending in a south-east direction, again connects itself with the sea at Muddee, 
which is about 14 miles distant from Pindtaruk. The breadth of this channel 
gradually decreases ; at Muddee it is not more than a mile, and is separated 
from the ocean by a low bank about 60 yards wide, which is wearing away. 
Twelve miles north from Positra this runn or swamp is five miles and a helf 
broad, the bottom of firm sand with very little mud. The highest spring tides 
flood it tc the depth of 16 or 18 inches ; at other times it is dry, or merely moist, 
and may be marched across with ease. The Oka shore is much more abrupt 
and uneven than the other, and is thickly covered with milk bush, baubool, and 
similar wild and astringent shrubs. After ascending the coast, the descent into 
the country is gradual, the general level of the surface being much lower than 
the beach of the Runn. 

In 1809, the whole district of Okamundel- contained five forts and 27 villages. 
The first are Bate, Positra, Bhurwalla, Dwaraca, and Dhenjee. Amramra 
belongs to the Bhyaud, or brotherhood of Bate. Subject to Dwaraca there are 
20 villages, containing in all not above 2000 houses, exclusive of the town of 
Dwaraca containing 500. The fraternity of Bate, including the villages belong- 
ing to Positra, possess only 500 dwellings, to which may be added the town of 
Bate containing 1000 ; so that the number of houses in the whole country does 
not exceed 4000. 

The soil of Oka is in generala light red, and of no great depth, and jowaree 
and bajeree the only crops it is capable of yielding. Camels of an inferior 
description are bred here, the sea beach and extensive sandy slips, called Wudh, 
covered with shrubs, being favourable towards the rearing of tiiis animal, which 
requires little care, and is sufifered to roam wild among the jtingles, where tigm 



OK^HUVDEL.] Ol* GUIERAT. 657 

liftye nerer been found, although leopards have occasionally been seen. It is 
also stocked with partri^es, quails, hares, and hogs. The rock which 
abounds in Oka is much impregnated with iron ore, but very little is fused 
beyond what the blacksmiths require for building and repairing boats. Salt is 
manufoctured in small quantities, and the shores abound with oysters and other 
shell fish. The population consists principally of Wagheres, a Hindoo race of 
men originally from Cutch, but who appear to possess as much of Mahommedan 
as of Hindoo principles, and their appearance and manners barbarous in the 
extreme. During the monsoon they were formerly accustomed, while their 
Doats were laid up, to retire to their villages, where they cultivated grain for 
their own use, but paid no revenue ; *their law being plough and eat. The 
Rajpoot families in general form villages distinct from the Wagheres, and pay 
a consideration for their land and crops. The Brotherhoods are at present 
nearly independent of their nominal heads, and by their neighbours of Hallaur 
and Barudda, they are considered treacherous, but the opinion is probably 
reciprocal. 

The piracies for which Oka has been celebrated are of very ancient date, and 
the natives continue prone to this mode of life, to which they are stimulated 
by the peculiar advants^es they possess for carrying it on. Among these may 
be mentioned the numerous creeks, bays, channels, and inlets, by which the 
country is indented, and the reliance they place on the power of their deity at 
Dwaraca, his priests and attendants being the strongest instigators to depreda- 
tion. In return they receive a certain portion of all plundered property as a 
recompense for the protection they receive from Runchor, while the expedition 
is at .sea. Before embarking, it was a common practice for the pirates to pro* 
mise a larger share than the god could claim by right, if he would ensure 
success and safety to their trip. Many vessels were fitted out in the name of 
Runchor, as sole owner, and actually belonged to the temple which received the 
plunder they brought back. 

The ancient history of Okamundel, as narrated in the sacred writings of the 
Hindoos, is so mingled with fabulous tradition, that it is nearly impossible to 
separate truth from romance. These authorities, such as they are, derive its 
name firom a celebrated demon of the name of Oka, who occupied this tract of 
oounfry uhtil he was slain by the deity Krishna. Such historical fragments as 
are aow extant, commence about A. D. 1054, at which era the govemmeat of 
Oka was partitioned between the Herole and Chowara Rajpoots; foe 
gby^ng at Goomtee, and the latter at Vusie, now a small vihage, eig|it milea 
^fo of Amramra. The Chowara hati been the legitimate sovere^pas of Gujerat» 

voa, 4 p 



658 THE FBOVINCE [acAjmsiMt, 

ffind a family of thU tribe wete tbe last tbat fetgned at P««ntii Pettily the 
ancient Nehrwallah. 

Some branches of Bhatore Ki^poots, who at that time governed Marwar or 
Ajtpeer, were about that time banished from that province, in consequence of 
internal dissensions; and among them were four brothers, Lucheram, Nirba 
Singh, Vyrawuljee, and Vijuljee, expelled by their uncle Raja Jhuda, who 
founded the city of Joudpoor. The two last named brothers, after various 
adventures and attempts at settlement, proceeded southward with the view of 
performing the pilgrimage to Dwaraca. The Herole prince, who then reigned in 
Bwaraca, levied a tax on all pilgrims for permission to bathe in the sacred 
waters of the Gooraty, which probably constituted the most lucrative branch of 
his revenue. \ 

On the- arrival of the Rhatore chiefs in Okamundel, they found the HerOle 
and Chowara tribes engaged in a warfare, which appeared interminable, so equu 
were the resources, and so persevering the hostility of t^e respective parties. 
The Chowaras solicited the assistance of the Rhatores, which they pretended to 
afford, while at the same time they were plotting the destruction of both parties. 
In furtherance to their plot, they published to the Hindoo community, t^t the 
god Runchor (a partial incarnation of Vishnu) had given them the remains of 
his victuals, with the intimation, that a similar donation would be continued for 
ever. They invited the Herole family to partake of the sacred aliments at a 
feast ; which invitation, unaware of the treachery contemplated, they accepted 
without hesitation. Their enemies, the Chowaras, were secreted by the Rhatores 
in a neighbouring spot, from whence they issued, while the Heroles were in- 
toxicated, and massacred them ; but they met with the same fate from the* 
Rhatores, who put the whole to death as they had originally intended. After 
this slaughter, the Rhatore tribe dropped their distinctive appellation, and 
assumed that of Waddell ; Wadd or Wadda signifying slaughter. 

Okamundel being thus left without goverdmeht, ami thinly inhabfted, was 
soon subdued by the Rhatores, wlm extended thrir dominions eas^ard as fer as 
the river Vedamati, and tlm younger brother, Vecjuljee, having miuched soath<< 
ward, conquered Ruttan Somnttuth ftm the Kagree Rajpoots, and established 
a Rhatore sovereignty in that qhartet of the Gujerat peninsula. During the life- 
time of the elder brother Vyrawuljee, ^e seat k government was transferred to 
Atttafhia, which Wng on ihe/iea shore tq^pemred more e%ftile than Vurie, 
aldiouij^ commerce was not thou encourag^, and the grmiter portion of ^e 
inhabfefmts bekg Wajg^wdrM or ttoatUmn, phacy IfriM prcfealdy their fereitfilp 



oKAWiiSDEL.] OFGUJEEAT. 659 

Tbe laodern hifttoiy of Ok&muiuiei oommieaceii about the cind of tiie 12th 
ceutury, since which period many chii^ have reigned, but to enumerate them 
w<Hdd only expose a banen list of names all ending with the syllable jee. 
Sangan seems to have been a c^brated warrior or pirate, whose nmne is used 
to this day by the pirates of the gulf of Gutch, who call themselves Sangani, 
which may have givmi rise to the supposed existence of a race of men named 
Sanganians. This chief extended his sway into Hallaur as far as Kumballia, and 
also into the Rana of Poorbunder’s territory. He was succeeded by his son 
Bheemjee ; in whose reign, about 1462, Mahmood Begra, Sultan of Gujerat, 
conquered the island of Bate, demolished the temples, broke the images, and gave 
up the country to indiscriminate plunder. On the retreat of the Mahommedans, 
Raja Bheemjee returned, and gradually expelled the Sultan’s garrisons ; and 
from this period Okamundel appears to have experienced but little change, the 
Manick and Waddell families, after a lapse of several centuries, continuing still 
in possession of their original insular dominions. Those on the main land they 
were deprived of during the administrations of Meeroo Khowas at Noanagur, 
and Prerajee at Poorbunder. 

In 1774, Okamundel was invaded by the united forces of Noanagur, Gondul, 
and Poorbunder, the object of the allies being to punish the Wagheres of 
Positra for depredations committed on their villages. Positra was then taken, 
but its chief was reinstated on furnishing security for the correctness of his 
future conduct. After the British interference in 1809, the improvement of 
Okamundel was very tardy, the soil having been found extremely unfavourable 
for the operations of agriculture. Yet even under all these disadvantages, the 
produce of grain in 1812 was greater than it had been prior to 1809, which 
result was to be attributed to the persevering efforts of the British government 
for rile suppression of piracy. The difficulty of withdrawing men from habite 
which had existed for many centuries, and which, in this particular instance, 
were also connected with religious prejudices, becomes infinitely more arduous 
when it is considered, that the country they inhabit will not to their utmost 
industry yield more than a bare subsistence. Mercantile exertion also is re* 
strained within very narrow bounds ; ghee and till being the only articles Oka 
can export, and six or seven boats are more than sufficient for the whole 
quantity. The concourse of pilgrims who resort axmually to Dwaraca ace 
supplied wirii the necessaries of life from Mandavie in Gutch ; but the revwue 
derived from the hriy places has also been decreasing, as well as the nundier 
of pilgrims. The fiunilies of the Mahmatta chif^, who fommriy contributed to 
rim ouppmrt of the temples, have latteriy eitlmr urairied the nmnns, mr Erected 
donations to oth^r places. 

4p2 



660 THB PROVINCE to*A«*i,K. 

The&6 habits of deprodation and rapino had also boon angravated and con* 
firmed by their unceasing feuds and internal dissentions. On account of tiieir 
piratical character, the natives of Okamundel had long been interdicted fidr 
commercial communication with the adjacent provinces ; and the property ac* 
quked by.plunder was squandered with the thoughtless profusion of a banditti. 
From the period of 1809, however, the conduct of the different chiefs ha d 
shewn such evident symptoms of improvement, and the fidelity witii which 
they fulfilled their obligations had been such, that the Bombay government in 
1812 determined to admit them as traders to British ports, and to afford them 
other reasonable indulgences, with the view of habituating them to industry, 
and in the hope of at last converting th^m to useful members of society. [The 
inveteracy of their old habits, however, was found insurmountable, and uso 
the utter inutility of the engagements entered into for the suppression of piracy : 
for not only were the depredations by sea renewed on British property ; bu4 a 
predatory system into the adjacent territories commenced by land. The coh- 
quest of Okamundel, therefore, appeared the only effectual remedy for evils of 
such inveteracy and duration. 

In prosecution of this object, a detachment under Colonel East crossed the 
Runn in 1816, and advanced west towards Okamundel, whence he addressed let- 
ters to the chiefs of Dwaraca and Dhenjee. From the first he received an evasive 
answer, for the purpose of gaming time to execute a project he contemplated, and 
of which Colonel East had received authentic information, of poisoning the water 
in the neighbourhood of the two places above mentioned. The attempt was 
actually made ; for when the detachment took up a position within three miles of 
Dhenjee near a large tank, it was found filled with branches of the milk bush, 
which were however cleared out, before they had time sufficient to communicate 
their poisonous quality to the water. Dhenjee was captured with inconsiderable 
loss ; and, notwithstanding the treachery meditated by the Dwaraca chief, in 
consideration of the sanctity of the place. Colonel East determined to attempt a 
negotiation, which was finally successful, being followed by the surrender of 
Dwaraca without further resistance by the garrison composed of Sindeans, who 
were replaced by 300 British sepoys, selected on account of their caste. The 
detachment then advanced towards the isle of Bate, wUch quietly surrendered 
on the promise, (which had been equally held out to the other chieftains,) of a 
suitable provision, and complete security for their private property and reli- 
gious establishments. The agehfii of Sunderjee Sewjee were th«i placed in ^ 
temporary chii^ of the police and of the revenue ooUectiotts. 

The povj^ of Bate and Okamundel generally would have rendered than 
unprofite^ acquisitions to the British government } but ^e ianctity of the ter* 
ritory mnd^d it to the Guicowar, who was wi^g to eeo^t it at fhe 



»A«t tsi,*,] OF GUJEBAT. 661 

Iwrard of a pecuniary sacrifice. In 1816, the highest revenue of Okamundel 
was estimated at 40,000 rupees, three-fourths of which was realized from the 
tax on pilgrims, which, under the British system, would have undergone a 
reduction, as had happened at Juggemauth. Out of the above sum also, the 
native chieftains must have been provided for, although their revenues were so 
scanty, and penury so great, that they had never been able to fulfil the pecuniary 
engagements entered into with Colonel Walker, the great source of their profits 
having been destroyed by the abolition of piracy. After much negotiation and 
hesitation on the part of Futteh Singh Guicowar, Okamundel, with its holy 
places of Bate and Dwaraca, was finally transferred to the Baroda government 
in 1817. — ( Macmurdo, Camac, Public MS. Documents, East, S^c.) 

Bate Isle. — ^An island situated at the western extremity of the Gujerat 
peninsula. Lat. 22** 27' N. long. 69° 19' £. Bate signifies an island of any 
kind, the proper name of this one being Shunkodwar. There is a good harbour 
here, well secured from the prevailing winds, but the anchorage is rocky. The 
port of Ba;te has lately been much improved, but is still an insignificant place, 
being merely a square with a double wall on one side. It was notwithstanding 
attacked by a British force without success in 1803, which was attributed to the 
want of regular land forces. On this occasion many brave men lost their lives. 
In 1809, about 150 vessels of different sizes belonged to the port, which were 
employed principally to and from Mandavie, and until the interference of the 
Bombay presidency, were the piratical vessels so much dreaded by traders on 
the western coast of India. 

The island does not produce sufficient food for its own support, and conse- 
quently imports large quantities of ghee, sugar, grain, &c. which are consumed 
by the numerous pilgrims resorting to the holy places. The town of Bate con- 
tains about 2000 houses, chiefly inhabited by Brahmins ; but all sorts of trades 
are also to.be found. Vegetables, raised in small quantities, and milk, compose 
a considerable portion of the food of the inhabitants ; the fish, with which their 
shores abound, being held sacred. The Bate government has also Amramra, 
Positra, Bhurwalla, fortified places, and the little village of Rajpoor, subject to 
it. The whole revenue arising from the temples, the port duties, and the 
share of pirated property, probably never amounted to two lacks of rupees per 
annum. 

In 1807, a fine of 110,000 rupees was imposed on this island, as a punishment 
for piracies committed by its inhabitants, and subsequently an agreement was 
executed by Coer Babjee of Bate, and Rana Suggermanjee of Amramra, by tiie 
conditions of which they engaged not to permit, instigate, or connive at any act 
of piracyt committed by any person under their authority, and also to abstain 



662 TM PROVINCE [bwaiaca. 

from plaadering vessels in distress. A free «nd opmi commerce to be permi^tei 
to all British vessels paying the regulated duties. The British by this tiseaiy 
undertook to afford the temple at Bate suitable protectik>n and encouragement 

Shunkodwar is the proper name of the island of Bate, and is derived from that 
of a Hindoo demon, so named from his dwelling in a large shunk, or conch ihdl, 
wherein he concealed tiie sacred Vedas, which he had stolen from Brahma. An 
incarnation of Vishnu, undmr the name of Shunk Narayan, cut open the shells, 
and restored the Vedas to their lawful owner. The demon pleaded as his excuse 
that he hoped to have been put to death by Vishnu for the theft, which would 
have injured him future happiness. In consequence of this exploit, Shunk 
Naraymi (Vishnu), or the destroyer of the shell demon, estabUshed his own 
worsUp on the island, where it continued paramount until the flight of aucraer 
Hindoo deity, named Rimchor, from Dwaraca, to escape the fury of a MahOm* 
medan m*my, since which time Runchor has been supreme on Bate. In 14^2, 
this place was taken by Sultan Mahmood Begra, of Ahmedabad and Gujenit.~ 
( Macmurdo, Treaties, 8^c.) 

Dwabaca (Bmrica, the gate ), — A town and celebrated temple (named also 
Juggeth) situated at the western extremity of the Gujerat peninsula. Lat. 22* 
15' N. long. 60° 7' E. In 1809, this place was possessed by Mooloo Manick, 
then considered the most powerful of the Okamundel chieftains. The sacredneiis 
of the place attracts a rich and numerous population, and presents a safe asylum 
from danger. There are 21 villages belonging to Dwaraca, containing 2500 
bouses, which, at the rate of four persons to each house, would give a population 
of 10,240 souls subject to it. By an agreement executed on the 14th of Decem- 
ber, 1807, Mooloo Manick Sumy wee, of Dwaraca, engaged with the British 
govenunent not to permit, instigate, or connive at any act of piracy committed 
by any person under bis authority, and also to abstain from plundering vesiiels 
in distress. On their part the British government engaged to aSbrd the temple 
at Dwaraca every suitable protection and encouragement; a free and open com- 
merce to be permitted to vessels paying the regulated duties. 

The most original and sacred spot in this quarter of India is Dwaraca; but 
about 600 years ago, the valued image of their god Runchor (an incarnation of 
Krishna) by a manoeuvre of the Brahmins was conv^ed to Daccoor in Gujmat, 
where it still remains. After much trouble the Brahmins at Dwaraca mibstitated 
asmtiier in its stead, whidh unfortunately also tirok a Ji|^ across a narrow aim 
of tibe seUf to ti»e iriand of Bate of^Shu^odwar, dbout 136 years ago, on widdk 
evem anotibjW iiew one was placed in tito tem]de iwfe. Dwmam is idro 
natedby the name of the kted; and having been the letHdeamclKriti^ 
the friveurite Hmdoa de^ si a claimed piaoe of ;id^ptiBuge fbr die leetaiief 



ifVAEACAO OF GUJEEAT. 663 

(d thttt religbn. I& perfonning this pilgrimage the following ceremonies take 

plime: 

On the arrival of the pilgrim at Dwaraca he bathes in a sacred stream, named 
the Goomty, from its windings, for permission to do which he pays the Owaraca 
chief four rupees and a quarter ; but Brahmins pay only three and .a half. After 
this purification a visit is made to the temple, where offerings are presented 
according to the circumstances of the devotee, and a certain number of Bn^hmins 
are fed. The pilgrim next proceeds to Aramra, where he receives the stamp 
from the hand of a Brahmin, which is made with an iron instrument on which are 
engraved the shell, the ring, and the lotos flower, which are the insignia of the 
gods. The instrument is made hot and impressed on any part of the body, but 
generally on the arms, and, by not being overheated, generally leaves an impres- 
sion on the spot. It is frequently impressed on young infants, and a pilgrim 
may receive not only his own stamp, but also stamps on his body for the benefit 
of any absent friend. This stamp costs one rupee and a half. 

The pilgrim next embarks for the isle of Bate, where, on his arrival, he must 
pay a tax of five rupees to the chief, present liberal offerings to the god, and 
dress him in rich clothes and ornaments. The chief of Bate, who is a holy per- 
son, receives charge of the present, which he retails again to other pilgrims at a 
reasonable rate, who again offer it to the deity, and it performs in time a similar 
revolution. The average number of pilgrims resorting annually to Dwaraca has 
been estimated to exceed 15,000, and the revenue derived to the tefoples about 
a lack of rupees. 

Notwithstanding this existing place of pilgrimage, the most authentic Hindoo 
annals assort, that Dwaraca was. swallowed up by the sea a few days after the 
decease of Krishna. This incarnation of the preserving jmwer (Vishnu) spent 
much of his time at Dwaraca, both before and after his expulsion by Jarasandha 
firom Mathura, on the banks of the Jumna, in the province of Delhi, which would 
indicate a greater intercourse between these distant places than could have boen 
expected at so remote a period. The chalk with which the Brahmins mark tlmir 
foreheads comes from this place, where it is said to have bemi deporited by 
Krishna, and ftom hence by merchants is carried all over India. Thirty miles to 
the southward of Poorbunder is the supposed spot where the original Dwaraca 
stood, until swallowed up by the ocean. There it is that a bird annually rises 
ftom the foam of the ocean, and by its colour enables the Brtdimina to pnsdict 
the nature of the coming monsoon. The idea of- this apparition, whkh is men- 
/rioned in the Ayeen Acberry, is still prevalent; and, accotdin| to the||[Bdoo8, 
lids bird of omen contmues annually to pech grain, dance bafoie deity« 
and die, as it did 2000 yataa agn.--(ifhc«nirih 



THE PROVINCE 


664 


[bubvdda. 


Muddee. — small village in the Gujerat peninsula, situated on the banks d 
the Hunn, about ten miles S. E. from Juggeth or Dwaraca. This strange morass 
(the Kunn), viewed from hence at a distance, appears covered with water, but 
when approached the deception is discovered to (Proceed from a thick coat of 
salt as white as snow. The land thieves of Oka are here named Kaba, a Sanscrit 
word which signifies a seeker or searcher, on account of the severe scrutiny all 
pilgrims and unprotected travellers undergo. The rags of the Byraggie (a Hindoo 
mendicant) are carefully examined, and the ball of ashes, with which he besmeara 
his body, is broken by these robbers in hopes of finding some small coin concealed 
in it. — ( Maanurdo, ^r.) „ I 

Diiekjee. — T his place belongs nominally to Dwaraca, but owing to its situa* 
tion amidst impregnable jungle, the Manick, or chief, has long acted indepenojent 
of that sacred fane. A treaty was concluded with him by Colonel Walker, ^^in 
1807, with a view to the suppression of piracy; but he and his subjects perse- 
vering in their evil ways, the place was captured by Colonel East in 1816, and 
afterwards transferred to the Guicowar. 

PiXDTARUK (or Pintara). — A small village in the Gujerat peninsula, situated 
on a sandy plain, extending about two miles from the western shore, 20 miles 
from the north-western extremity of the Gujerat peninsula. Lat. 22® 19' N. 
long. 69® 24' E. In the vicinity there is a spring of pink-coloured water, cele- 
brated among the natives as a place of pilgrimage, the Hindoos considering it to 
have been the spring where the Pandoos procured their pardon for the crime of 
cow killing, after they were expelled from Hastinapoor. — (Macmurdo, ^c.) 

Biiattia. — A town situated near the western extremity of the Gujerat penin- 
sula. Lat. 22® 9' N. long. 69® 26' E. 

pQSiTRA . — A piratical town and fortress of Okamundel, in the Gujerat pe- 
ninsula, lat. 22® 20' N. long. 69® 21' £. 18 miles N.E. from Juggeth point. 
The gopee chundun, a white clay for marking the forehead, taken from a holy 
tank near Positra, sells at Bombay for six rupees per maund. — ( Macmurdo^ S^c.) 

BuauDDA (or Jaitwar ). — A district extending along the south-western 
coast of the Gujerat peninsula, and situated principally between the 21st and 
22d degrees of north latitude. The country which is still known by the name 
of Burudda, and which composes the present territory of the Rana of Poor- 
btthder, is bounded on the north by the Sorteeannee river, which ftdls intp the 
Meaimee % HaUaur. On the e^ it has die Burudda mountains and the Idui- 
sar ; (m the south and west the sea. In the Sanscrit kmguage, Burudda 
the backbcne; ai^ ^ name originated in conseqiience Paeidmaa^ one oi 
Ksishna’s sons, placing a mountain mi the \mk ci I 



i*ooft9iT»i>sii.] OF gujehat. 665 

tbe {ffe«iini|)tk»i to interra{»t the great sacrifice of the horse which the Pandoos 
were peffiiMn&iiig. 

cMdr towiu at present are Poorbunder, Nawee Bunder, and Meannee ; 
and still exist tiie ruins of a town named Ghoomtey, the debris of which 
eoBtmue to attract the devotion and excite the curiosity of the Hindoos. Ac^ 
ccffi^g to their traditions, it stood a siege of seven or eight years, but the 
exact era has never been ascertained. By the conditions of Colonel Walker’s 
arrangement in 1807, the chieftains of Poorbunder, or Burudda, were bound to 
pay the Guicowar an annual tribute of 30,000 rupees ; which is quite as much 
as the district could afford. The surface is generally flat, the soil light earth 
with rock, and not remarkably fertile. The want of wood, so common through* 
out the Gujerat peninsula, is equally felt here ; and the water is in many places 
brackish . — C Walker, Public MS. Documents, Sgc. ^c. ^c.) 

PooKBUNPXR. — ^A large and populous town, built on a creek of the sea, on 
the south-west coast of the Gujerat peninsula, 68 miles S. E. from Juggerii 
point. Lat. 21“ 39' N. long. 69“ 45' E. This petty maritime state is centrally 
situated, about half way between Diu and the north-west extremity of the Gu- 
jerat peninsula. It contains 80 inhabited villages, two fortresses, Chayia and 
Kunduma; also eleven gurries, or places with four towers. The number of 
families is 15,000; and the total population about 75,000. The number of 
ploughs 3000. The surrounding country has a level appearance, with the 
exception of one range of mountains, about 12 or 14 miles distant from the 
town. 

Poorbunder is an emporium for Gujerat and Malwah, with Persia and Arabia. 
To Muscat the exports are cotton, thread, wheat, oil, and bajeree ; the imports 
flrom thence, madder, raisins, and sumna. To Bombay the exports are cotton 
and grain ; the imports, sugar, iron, steel, tin, lead, cloths, china-ware, broad- 
cloUis, pepper, spices, rice, &c. in small quantities. The easy access to the 
Pomrbunder territory and towns, and the facility of shipping cotton, give it a 
prefiurence over any other town on this coast, and its situation to the westward 
of Bombay enables vessels to leave it at a later period, and effect their passage 
at the opening of the monsoon, while the passage to Bombay from the ports 
situated more to the eastward, is at the latter end of May rendered dangerous 
and precarious, owing to the wind’s hanging so much to the southward. From 
its geograi^hical position also, a military force stationed at Poorbunder is ena- 
bled to oontroul a line of sea coast flrom Bate to Diu ; but its fortificariems were 
injured by the great ear^uake df the Iflth June, 1819. 
llbe niodem pcflrt of Poorbunder was estriilisbed on the site of the ancimit 
§iujldam^ mentioned in the Bhagvat Gaebt as having been sud- 
vox. I. 4 a 



666 THE PROVINCE [foorbuitdee. 

denly converted from a small village into a city of gold by the deity Krishna, 
in order td gratify his old friend and companion, Sudama. Within the territo- 
ries of this petty principality, the Mhers and Robaries form an original and 
singular institution of a standing or national militia, 'who are the organs of 
the public opinion and support of the state. The Robaries are cowherds ; the 
Mhers pretend to b^. class of Rajpoots, but by the Hindoos they are scarcely 
considered as within the pale of the Brahminical religion. It is supposed they 
can muster from 3000 ta 4000 men. The reigning family are of the Jaitwar 
tribe, and claim a descent from Hunimaun, the gigantic monkey, and prime 
minister to the great Rama ; and although not Jahrejahs, so fascinating doe^ the 
practice of evil appear to be, that it could be established by evidence, that no 
grown up daughters had appeared in the family for fnore than 100 years. Ipey 
are still distinguished by the name of tailed Ranas, from a supposed elonga^on 
of the spinal bone. \ 

On a high mountain in this district, visible from Bhattia, once stood the city 
of Goomty, which was the metropolis of the Ranas of Poorbunder, when their 
sway extended throughout the western quarters of the Gujerat peninsula. It 
was destroyed by Jam Bhamenee, the son of Jam Oner, who invaded the coun- 
try from Sinde, for the purpose of overturning the government of Poorbunder> 
Legendary tales and songs state their passage of the Runn at Mallia, which 
may be esteemed evidence of the extent of that curious swamp at an early 
period. By the terms of an agreement concluded in 1808, Rana Sertanjee, 
and Coer Hallajee, of Poorbunder, engaged with the Bombay presidency, not 
to permit, instigate, or connive at, any act of piracy committed by any person 
im4er their authority, and also to abstain from plundering vessels in distress. 
Reciprocal freedom of trade to be permitted by both parties, and an agent 
from the Bombay government to be allowed to reside at Poorbunder. 

In 1809, this petty state was placed under the immediate protection of the 
British government, to which one half of the port duties, estimated at 37,500 
rupees per annum, with a participation in all its rights and advanti^s, were 
assigned, as a compensation for 50,000 rupees advanced to the Guicowar, on 
account of the debt due by the chiefs and town of Poorbunder. Prior to this 
event, the Ranas of Poorbunder were subjected to insults and exactions from 
all quarters. Besides those extorted by the Maharattas, they paid 7300 corees 
(three to the rupee) to the Nahpb of Junaghur; 2000 to the Bahi chief of 
Bautwa ; 5800 to the Cusbatty of Mangrole ; and 14(K) corees to the Portu- 
gueze of Diu ; which last was in consideration of protection for their trading 
vessels, which not having been for many years afforded by the Portugnene, or 
required by the Pooibur^er state, had virtually ceaaed. On this occasion, titei 



aoMTM.] OP GOJERAT. 667 

nuoiageine&t of sffiura at Poorbundcr was entrusted to Sundeijec Sewjee, a 
respectable merchant; and by the arrangements made with the creditors of 
Poorbunder, the British government was not involved in any obligation beyond 
that of seeing that the resources of the country were applied to the several pur- 
poses specified ; which interference was the only chance left of saving this small 
principality from complete insolvency.— MaxjitU, Macmttrdo, Pottin- 
ger, Schuyler, <§’c. (§‘c. ^c.) 

Meannee. — A . town in the Gujerat peninsula, 40 miles S. E. from Juggeth 
Point. Lat. 21* 50' N. long. 69“ 35' E. 

SoaETH. — district in the Gujerat peninsula, encompassing the Junaghur 
mountains, and situated between the ^Ist and 22d degrees of north latitude. 
To the north and west it is bounded by Hallaur and Burudda ; on the south by 
Babreeawar ; and on the east by Catty war. When Abul Fazel wrote, it ap- 
pears to have comprehended a great proportion of the Gujerat peninsula, prior 
to the irruption of the Catties. By that author it is described as follows: 
“ Circar Soret, containing 73 mahals, out of which 13 are on account of port 
duties; revenue 63,437,366 dams.” It is, probably, the most fertile, and, 
being tolerably well wooded, has a more pleasing appearance than most parts 
of the peninsula. 

The country of Soreth, including Junaghur, its capital, was anciently go- 
verned by Rajas of the Churassama tribe, during which dynasty they are 
described as enjoying a high degree of prosperity, while the neighbouring ter- 
ritories were harassed by contending Mahommedan chiefs. In process of time, 
it also fell a prey to the followers of the prophet, who gradually reduced it to 
the state of barbarism and desolation which it now exhibits. The ancient resi- 
dence of the Soreth Rajas was at Runtella, but was afterwards transferred to 
Junaghur, which in 1472 surrendered to Sultan Mahmood Begra, when Raja 
Row Mundybak was ordered to repeat the Mahommedan creed. During the 
siege, few guns were used on either side; the garrison principally defending 
themselves with bows and arrows. From this period, Soreth remained subject to 
Mahommedan princes, and when Gujerat was conquered by Acber, became a 
dependance of the great Delhi empire, under the immediate superintendence of 
the Soubahdar of Ahmedabad. 

About 1735, when the Mogul empire had fidlen to pieces, it again became in- 
dependent, having been seized on with Junaghur, the metropolis, by Shere Khan 
Babi, a soldier of fortune, whose descendant still fills the throne. But his, or 
any other authority, whs very imperfectly established ; every fortress, town, 
hiU, or vilkge, being occupied by petty ddefii and communities,, averse to evmry 
. spedes regularity and subordinatiion. Towards the tmaelvudma of the Ifith 

4 o 2 



668 THE PfiOVlNCE iimAtmPtu 

century, many «f these deps of ^eves were rediraed by the epcq[y of 
majee, (tewsn to the Nabob of Jimsfi^ur, who was attorwanis by 

his master, Hamed Khaa, tlm reigning Nidmb, in 1808. Indeed, finr the kwt 10 
years, diis principality has exhibited ah ttnceacnng scene ot levoltttiQQs, imf* 
^oationB, and intrigues, in perseverance and activity incredible to a iaereEan>> 
pean pditician.'-f'E^lier, JP^Ue MS. Doemn&ii$, ^.) 

JuNAGHua.— >A town ip tiie Gujerat peninsula, district of Soeeth, Of wlwtii'it 
is the capital, 60 miles N. N. W. Diu Point Lat 21* 29 N. Icmg. 70* 38^ 
E. This is a petty Mahornmedan state of Mine celebnty in the Gujerat penin- 
sula, the diiefs of which are sprung from the same tribe as the Nabobs oil Rah- 
dunpoor. In 1808, Hamed Khan Baj>i was fined 40,000 rupees by Colonel 
Walker, on account of piracies committed by his subjects and connived at by 
himsdf. He died in 1611, on which event 1^ eldest son, Bahadur KhBn,Wos- 
semed himself of the government;- but disorders arising, the chief power ^nd 
controul devolved <m some Arab jemadars, who had found it their interest to 
unite their influence and maintain a good understanding, by the effimbcy of 
which they were enabled to impose severe restraints on the NiJmb, who im- 
plored the assistance of the British government, offering as a return to relin- 
quish in perpetui^, his mooluck geery collections in the Gujerat peninsula, 
amounting to about 170,000 rupees per annum. The leading Arab Jemadar, 
named Omar Mookhasur, was in consequence required to surrender his authori- 
ties and those of his partisans, under an assurance that their just chums <m tiie 
principality would be liquidated, and that he himself would be allowed to reside 
witiun the Junaghur territories, while every other Arab mercenary would be 
con^pelled to retire from the peninsula. Tliese objects were subsequently at- 
taint without the necessity of resorting to force, although there q|>peared in 
the first instance evmry inai^estation oi a determined opposition cm the pfirt of 
the Arabs. In 1811, the total amount of the Junaghur revenues^ff every de- 
scriptum ms estimated at 632,000 r«peea. 

Deduct antount embezzled ..... 236,000 

,■■■■ 4 ... 

896,000 

Paid to the Guicowar 76,000 

Gov^nment mqwises ..... 2^,000 

Junaj^ juamaalmndy .... 176,000 480,000 

^ ^ 

Defidkmt . . . 64,000 

Ihe alwvejiaileiiie^ oi^Odts an iastaaeeof tiwtegidiwomribdcmof thesetW' 
tiM.|ria»|eiacaAa native states, and mem espeoiaEy df tim Kahazattaa. In 
tld4laataaee,teGmeowarlenea 176^000 tnpein, eft Ida wroead the Pertwm*a 



MiMiiisAirAm.] OF QUJEBAT. 6^ 

domtiiw, i*r t3u» benefit ef tbe Jiuuigbnr govemmait; while the last IcTies 
103»000 rapees (of which only 75,000 are paid) on account of the Ooicowar. 

tbe <nutona oi the country has sanctioned the collection of niooluck geery, 
(tribute teoetved to abstain from plundering), although acknowledged to be a 
usurpation; but the right in the Soreth government is considered attached to 
Ihe pMsesskm of Ahmedabad, and of course was vested in the Peshwa, whose 
rig^ were tiunsferred to the British government by the treaty of Bassein. 
The eoUection of the Junaghur ghauss-dana claims, in the British districts, 
having been' consolidated with those of the other revenue pa 3 rments, it does not 
appear that any benefit would be derived from its rdinquishment ; for tiie assess- 
ments made in consequence on the, cultivators by the heads* of the villages, 
would not be at all reduced by its removal, and the benefit would be expe- 
rienced by a few leading individuals, who have no claim to any such gratuity. 
(Comae, Public MS. DocumetUs, S;c. 

Dhorajee. — town in the Gujerat peninsula, 14 miles N. from Junaghur. 
Lat. 24- 41' N. long. 70* 48 E. 

Jaitpoor.— A town in the -Gujerat peninsula, 20 miles N. R from Junaghur. 
Lat. 20* 42' N. long. 70” 49^ E. In 1808, the perpetual tribute to the Guicowaiv 
payable by the Catty chiefs of Jaitpoor, was fixed at 38,000 rupees. 

Baumtwah.— A town in the Gujerat peninsula, 27 miles west from Junaghur. 
Lat 21* 29' N. long, 70* 13 E. 

Drauppa.-— A town in the Gujerat peninsula, 40 miles N. N. W. from JuuB!* 
ghur. Lat. 21* 67' N. long. 70* 17 E. 

Babreeawar. — ^This district comprises that portion of the Gujerat penin- 
sula terminated by the island of Diu. To the north it is bounded by Cattywar ; 
on rile south by the sea ; to riie west it has Soreth ; and on the east the sea 
and the gulf of Cambay. Babreeawar is a very mountainous tract, compre- 
b fffMiing few towns, and producing food barely sufficient for its own consumption. 
Until lately this tract has been almost unknown, partly owing to physical diffi- 
CT lt w, and partly to tbe reputation of its natives for barbarity of manners. 
Tlie timber produced here is large but useless. The sea-port of Jaffisrabad is 
properly in Babreeawar ; and the Siddees, who in the course of sevend genera- 
rirnu have multiplied in the neighbourhood, have formed several villages, where 
rimy live by industry, and collect for sale a groat quantity of excellent honey. 
The Babreeawar mountains afford also a never-fri^g pasture, where during the 
drought of 1812-13, almost the whole cattle of riie peninsula were assembled. 
The Junglro axe well sttx^ed witii tigers, and dilfermit varietks of deer. This 
Hwri is rim Babreea tribe ni GoOlies, formerly possessed 

^^erripeif whesce rimy vveitemtp^ed by rim C^rities. 



670 THE PROVINCE [sokhauth. 

In 1808, the Nabob of Junag^ur, having succeeded in subduing some of these 
turbulent villages, enacted a pecunhury acknowledgement from them, but the 
Babreea zemindars, generally, are not suffidently wealthy or industrious to pre- 
sent any temptation to the neighbouring chieftains. — ( Macmurdo, 

Billawol. — town on the sea-coast of the Gujerat peninsula, 29 miles 
N. W. from Diu. Lat. 20® 63' N« long. 70® 34' E. 

Putt AN Somnauth (Patana Somanatha). — h. town near the southern extre- 
mity of the Gujerat peninsula, 29 miles N. W. from Diu Head. Lat. 20® 6^' N. 
long. 70® 36' E. In 1808 it belonged to the Mahommedan Nabob of Junaghur, 
Hamed Khan. By Abul Fazel, in 1582, it is described as follows : “ This k a 
large town on’the sea shore, with a stone fort in a plain. The city is a place of 
great religious resort.” When that author composed his work, the surroundmg 
country was named Soreth, although at present more generally known by tl^t 
of Cattywar, and is celebrated in the sacred books of the Hindoos as containii^g 
five inestimable blessings: 1. the river Goomty; 2. beautiful wOmen; 3. 
good horses ; 4. Somnauth ; 5. Dwaraca. The modem town stands at the junc- 
tion of three rivers, the Hurna, the Kapula, and the Sereswati. 

Somnauth is one of the twelve images of Siva, which are said to have de- 
scended from heaven to earth, and the great fame of its temple attracted the 
cupidity, while it stimulated the bigotry of Sultan Mahmood, of Ghizni. Ac- 
cording to Mahommedan authors the holy image was destroyed ; but this fact is 
denied by the Hindoos, who assert that the god retired into the ocdan. The 
temple, although on this occasion despoiled of its enormous treasures, soon 
recovered both fame and wealth sufficient to make it an object of attack to many 
Mahommedan princes. Sultan Mahmood Begra, who obtained possession of 
the Gujerat throne, and its capital Ahmedabad, in 877 of the Hijera, marched 
against Somnauth, razed the temple to the ground, and built a mosque on the 
spot where it had stood. Since that period the territory of Soreth has remained 
under a Mahommedan government; but the persevering piety of the Hindoos 
. has overcome the religious phrenzy of their rulers. The mosque has gone to 
ruin, and Ahsela Bhye, the widow of a prince of the Holcar ffimily, has erected 
a temple on the exact site of that which was demolished. A symbol of Siva has 
been placed in this temple, which is deemed peculiarly propitious to thoiie who 
desire ofi'spring, and Somnauth, although it has lost its splendour, retains its 
reputation, and is visited by pilgrims from every quarter, who pay a trifling duty 
to the Mahcnnmedan Nabob, for*|>ennission to perform thw devotiOM ^ this 
-ffivourite shrine. 

Not. only the spot on whidi the temple <rf Somnauth, stands, hut s^ ^ 
vuMy, is celebrated in tim tales of Hindoo mythology. Ontheadil«»i B**^ 



JA7VXEABAD.] OF GUJERAT. 671 

the renowned conflict of the Jadoos was fought, five thousand years ago, wherdn 
60 millions of combatants were engaged, and all slain except about a dozen. 
One mile from Somnauth, at a place called Bhalka,. the Hindoo pilgrim is shown 
a solitary peepul tree, on the banks of the river Sereswati, which he is assured 
stands on the exact spot, where the deity Krishna received the mortal wound 
from an arrow that terminated his incarnation. In 1816, through the interpo- 
sition of the Bombay presidency with the Jnnaghur state, arrangements were 
effected, tending to secure a greater freedom of pilgrimage to Somnauth. It 
had long been an object of lively interest with the Guicowar state, and anxiously 
desired by all classes of Hindoos, to relieve this sacred and celebrated place 
from the insults of the Mahommedans, who not only preposterously obstructed 
their worship, but entered the recesses of their temples without the smallest 
respect for their prejudices. — ( Malcolm, Public MS. Documents, S^c. ^-c. ^c.) 

Diu (Dwipa, the island ). — A small island and harbour near the southern 
extremity of the Gujerat peninsula. Lat. 20“ 41' N. long. 71“ 7' E. This small 
island, about four miles long by one broad, in ancient times contained a Hindoo 
temple, celebrated for its sanctity and riches. In A. D. 1515, the Portugueze 
obtained possession of Diu, and in 1536, by permission of Bahadur Shah, the 
Sultan of Gujerat, strongly fortified it. While the Portugueze power prospered, 
it enjoyed considerable commerce, but it fell with their decay, and in 1670 was 
surprised and plundered by the Muscat Arabs, then a considerable maritime 
power, who obtained great plunder. It has since dwindled away, and is now 
an insignificant place, containing only about 4000 inhabitants ; but it may at 
some future period become again of importance, on account of its harbour and 
geographical situation. Even now it receives a small tribute annually from 
Poorbunder, for the protection it is supposed to afford to the trading ships of 
that port, but which it neither does nor can afford. The remains of convents 
and monasteries are still to be seen, and cannon are mounted on the walls, but 
there are no soldiers to look after them. In 1809, during a particular emergency, 
it was garrisoned by a detachment of the 47th Regiment. — ( Stmart, Bruce, 
Duncan, ^v.) 

Koweeenaur. — ^A town in the Gujerat peninsula, 10 miles N.N.W. from 
Diu. Lat. 20“ 45' N. long. 70“ 50' E. . 

OoKA. — A town in the Gujerat peninsula, 18 miles N. E. from Diu head. 
Ut.20“60'N. long.7r 10' E. 

Jafferabad (Jafarabad).—k town in the Gujerat peninsula, formerly pt 
comddeiable oovametw, but now of little note, situated on the banks of a shallow 
river. 38 miles N. E. ftm Diu. Lat. 2<f 52' N. long. 71^ 29' E. 



67^ THE EEOYINCE. [Bso'rirtKWim. 

Rajoora.— ‘A town in the Gujemt peninsula, 53 iii2ea X. E. frou Dw henA 
Lat,21*2'N. long.nMOfE. 

Goelwar (or GohUwar ). — ^The division of Goelijrar is bounded on the north 
oy 4he river Bhadur, and the Company’s district of Arratum ; on the east by tite 
gulf of Cambay ; on the south by the sea ;■ and on the west by Cattywar and the 
coast of Walak. It is watered and fertilized by many rivers, and contains the 
valuable sea-ports of Bhownuggur and Gogo. The name is derived frcnn the 
Goel tribe of Rajpoots, the present possessors of the country, who, accmding 
to tradition, derive their name from Balivahan, third Raja of the Caliyug, who 
defeated Vicramaditya 1739 years ago. By the conditions of Colonel Walkp’s 
arrangement in 1807, the chieftains of Goelwara were bound to pay to the Giu- 
cowar state a perpetual tribute of 111,700 rupees, which the district can affcra, 
as it is fertile and produces almost every kind of grain, much of which \is 
exported. There is also an ambawijn, or mangoe forest, extending for about a 
couple of miles, and remarkable as being the only thing of the kind in the Guje* 
rat peninsula. The face of Goelwaiu, although generally flat, has several con- 
spicuous mountains, among which may be mentioned those of OoUitana and 
Seroi. — ( Walker y Mamurdo, 1^. 

Walak.— A subdivision of the Gujemt peninsula, which having passed feofo 
the Catties to the Coolies, who in their turn were extirpated by the Raja oi 
Bhownuggur, this territory has been classed in conjunction with Godwar. 

Lolyaka. — A town in the Gujerat peninsula, 30 miles west irom the gulf of 
Cambay. Lat. 21'* 66' N, long. 71* 64' E. 

Tullaja.— A town in the Gujerat peninsula, eight miles feom the gulf of 
Cambay. Lat. 21* 24' N. long. 72° 11' E. 

BHowKnoGUR . — k sea-port, town, situated on the west side of the gulf of 
Cambay. Lat. 21° 48' N. long. 72° 16' £. It was named after the grandfether 
of the present Rawul, who founded it on the site of a village muned Jomta 
Wurwa. The plan was marked out, and the foundation laid, by Bhow Singh, 
1742, who was succeeded by his son Rawul Akarajee, whe joined the British 
expeditions against TaUaja and Mowa. He was succeeded by his son Wuchut 
Singh. These princes (the Rawuls of Bhownuggur) had the good soase to 
encourage commerce, to protect the merchant’s property, mad to extirpate the 
little piratical communities, which possessed the sou^-westem coast of the gidf 
of Cambay. The town in consgtpience waxed rfeh, and is at j^resmt the tddrf 
mart for the e 3 |p<»t and itnpCrt trade of Cattywar, Ahmed|MI, and Harwir. 
Eeing thus protected by tile Rs^as, many (^ulent mentiumts settied at Ehoi^ 
nuggur; and the netg^bouring port of Gogo, altiumgh poasessed of a Mek 



BHOWNuoouB.] OF GUJERAT. 673 

harbour continued of secondary importance. One very curious not very 
creditable manufacture has long been established here, which is a mint for the 
&brication of base money, where every sort of rupee, current on the w©st side 
of India, is so well counterfeited, that even native bankers have been deceived 
by them. In 1812, the Raja was not only strongly suspected of conniving at 
the practice, but also of sharing in the profits. From 1810 to 1814, 38 Arabian 
vessels, aggregating 2716 tons, arrived at this port, and 37 aggregating 2683 
tons returned. These vessels do not usually resort to any other ports under the 
Bombay presidency, besides Surat and Bhownuggur. 

In 1807, with the voluntary concurrence of the Raja, the tribute he used to 
pay to the Guicowar state was transferred to the British government, amounting 
to 74,500 rupees ; but this change did not authorize any interference with the 
internal concerns of the genuine Bhownuggur territory, in which the Raja 
retained every privilege undiminished. The names of the estates which formerly 
settled with the Guicowar are, 1. Omrala and the villages of Lolyana ; 2. Mowa 
and Barwar; 3. Wagnuggur; 4. Delvore, &c. ; 5. Tullaja, &c. ; 6. Janjmere; 
7. Jelalpoor, Mandwa, &c, &c. In A. D. 1809, it was discovered that the 
Bhownuggur chieftain, although tributary to the British, and actually under 
its protection, connived at the depredations of the turbulent Catties, whose 
plunder found a ready market in his territories. As a punishment. Colonel 
Walker, during his march through the Gujerat peninsula, imposed a fine on him 
of 25,000 rupees. In extenuation of his apparent partiality, the Bhownug- 
gur Raja pleaded the uncivilized condition of his territory, and the evil exam- 
ple held out by the barbarous tribes on his frontiers, which aggravated the 
difficulty he experienced of controuling his own subjects. On this occasion the 
Bhownuggur chieftain had been induced to give a Bhatt security as guarantee 
for his decennial engagements to the Guicowar, but the moment that tribute 
was transferred to the British government, he requested to be relieved from the 
security of a Bhatt, which he had given merely in deference to the custom of 
the country, and who exacted a pecuniary recompense as the price of his secu- 
rity. The Thakoor’s wishes were immediately complied with, the original, 
engagements cancelled, and others entered into under his own personal gua- 
rantee. 

Matters continued in this state until 1810, when it was determined by the 
Bombay presidency, after much consideration, to establish the British authority 
throughout the whole of the cessions made under the treaty of Bassein, to' the 
west of the gulf of Cambay; and an occasion soon arpse of acting practically on 
tile resolution. In February, 1813, during a severe famine, seven natives of 
the porguimah of Oogo, in which Bhownuggur is situated, quitted their homes 

trot. 1 . 4 a 



674 THE PROVINCE [BHburKUootJii. 

to seek for a subsistence; it is supposed on their way to Bombay. While 
passing through Bhowhuggur, the pwgs of hunger so iar vanquished ^eir reli- 
gious prejudices, that they had recourse to the expedient of killing and eating a 
cow. This excited much horror in the mind of the Thakoor, or chidtain of 
Bhownuggur, who thought proper, although within the Britbh territories, to 
seize, torture, and finally decapitate five full grown persons, and five lads about 
16 years of age. As neither humanity^ nor policy could permit so arbitrary and 
cruel an act of tyranny to pass unnoticed, the chief of. Bhownuggur was called 
on, to state the grounds upon which he considered hiipself warranted in exer- 
cising such summary process within the limits of the British sovereignty. I 

This Thakoor, or lord, in reply asserted, that these sintoers nnd ill mted 
pei‘sons were not destitute ; that they had twice killed four or five cows ; ytnd 
that all the inhabitants exclaimed against such infamous proceedings. I^at 
although properly cautioned, these wretches, prompted by their contumacious 
and disobedient appetites, had presumed to slay five cows on that very night, 
in consequence of which they had been punished according to the rules of the 
Hindoo religion. 

On investigating this chiefs claims to independent authority, it appeared on 
record, that the pergunnah of Gogo, although comprized within the district of 
Goelwara, a subdivision of Cattywar, had been for i^s dismembered from it, 
and formed a distinct dependency on Ahmedabad, the capital of Gujerat, the 
viceroy of which province controuled Gogo through the medium of a foujdar, 
or commandant; nor did it appear that a divided authority had ever existed in 
Gogo,^ while the latter was subject to a Mahommedan government. On the 
declension of the latter in 1742, Bhow Singh, like other ambitious men, strove 
to aggrandize himself, and, by intrigues and purchase, acquired the village of 
Bhownuggur, where he constructed a fortress. Some time afterwards Momen 
Khan, the Nabob of Cambay, attacked Bhownuggur, which compelled Bhow 
Singh to cede to the Siddee of Jafferabad (the admiral of the Mogul's fleet) a 
fourth of the customs of his port, for protection against the ambition of the Cam- 
bay prince, which fourth share devolved to the British government on aoq^uiring 
the castle of Surat and the command of the Mogul fleet, iq 1768. On the con- 
quest of Gujerat by the Maharattas, the chief of Bhownug^r conciliated the 
rising power, acknowledged the supremacy of the Peri^wa, and received as a 
reward fw his services a fourth ^ the customs of Gogo. The •wvereignty over 
these possesrions, thus acquired by the Peshwa, were ceded to the Britiih naritqt, 
widmut any rescgvatkin oi sovj^mgnty in &Toiur of the Bhownnggnr dtief, by 
the tnMHty of'Bassein. 

Pttderttffi^ehaiprhMiwns the RaaacdBhownnMrar was aiipiigedtrf the distant 



GOOD.] OFGUJERAT. ^5 

eeli^ns in which he stood connected Mrith the British government as a tributarjir 
prince, and as a landholder. In the first mentioned character, he is fiiUy 
entided to exercise the authority of a sovereign within the territory from which 
the tribute accrues ; but in the second, as proprietor of Bhownuggur and its 
dependent villages, situated within the pergunnah of Gogo, he must be con- 
sidered as a mere landholder, amenable in common with the meanest subject to 
the courts established far the administration of justice. He was consequently 
warned against the future perpetration of any act of contumacy or cruelty, as 
he would thereby incur the indignation of his feudal superior, the British 
government. 

In 1816, the Thakoor of Bhownuggur^s military establishment consisted of the 
following troops, viz. 350 Arabs, and 550 Sindeans and Hindostanies ; total 900 
infiuitry, and 1090 horsemen; but although paid for, probably one half, espe- 
cially of the latter, were non-effective. The expense incurred amounted to 
226,620 rupees per annum, independent of various assignments of land to rela- 
tions and others for military service. Within the last ten years, however, the 
Thakoor, considering himself secured by the British protection from external 
aggression, as well as effectually debarred from encroaching on his neighbours, 
took advantage of the tranquil condition of the province, and studied to improve 
his possessions and finances by the gradual reduction of his unnecessary esta- 
blishments, especially of the military. Of those rated as Arabs, probably not 
more than one-half are really from Arabia ; the remainder are natives of the 
country, who, from long association with the Arabs, have acquired their lan- 
guage, and assumed their dress and arms, or are the descendants of Arabs born 
in the country. Notwithstanding all these precautions, the Thakoor is greatly 
in debt, and being amenable to the established courts of justice, much incon- 
venience would result both to him and to the British government were his credi- 
tors to resort to that channel for the recovery of their really just claims. His 
principal towns, Seehore and Bhownuggur, are situated in the pergunnah of 
Gogo, and are both fortified. The first was the residence of the Thakoor's 
ancestors, and even now many of his female relations reside there ; the last is 
the abode of the Thakoor himself, with his son, and their establishments. The 
Bhownu^;ur territories suffered j^atly by the famine of 1812, and its port 
has latterly been on the decline, owing to the superior advantages presented by 
Gogo . — (PuhUc MS. Documents, Captain Archibald Robertson, Comae, Widker, 
Bourchier, 4’^- 

Seehorx. — ^A town in the Gujerat peninsula, 22 miles W. from the gutf of 
Cambay. Lat 21* 44' N. long. 72* 3' E. 

Good — A town in the Gqjerat peninsula, rituated on the west shte oi 

4 a 2 



676 THE PROVINCE [chowal. 

the gulf of Cambay. Lat. 2r 40' N. long. 72* 23' E. This is a safe roadsted 
during the S. W. monsoon, to which vessels may run in case of parting with 
their anchors in Surat roads, it being an entire bed of mud, about three-fourths 
of a mile from the shore, and always smooth water. Ships may here get sup- 
plied with stores and provisions, and repair any damages they may have sus- 
tained. The natives, who are principally Mahommedans, build vessels from 60 
to 300 tons, and formerly carried on a brisk trade with Bombay in their own 
craft, but latterly much of this commerce has been transferred to the adjacent 
port of Bhownuggur. The Lascars of Gogo are named Siddees, and are 
reckoned the best on the west coast of India. In 1582, it was described jby 
Abul Fazel as follows : “ Ghogeh is a large port, well built, and inhabited W 
merchants. Ships come to and others are fitted out from this place. The cargi^s 
of ships are put in small vessels, which transport them to Cambayet. In 
neighbourhood are remarkably fine oxen, some of which are sold for 300 rupee's 
a pair and upwards, according to their beauty and speed.” — (Elmore, Abul Fazel, 
Makt, Drummond, S^c.) 

Rattolaw. — sea-port in the Gujerat province, situated on the gulf of Cam- 
bay. Lat. 22*3' N. long. 72* 15' E. By the arrangements of the British govern- 
ment with the Guicowar in 1802, the British acquired this harbour, which is on 
the windward side of the gulf of Cambay, and well calculated, from its situation 
and easy access, to attract the commerce of the Gujerat peninsula and of the 
neighbouring country. 

Akratum. — ^This is a British district under the collectorship of Kaira, extend- 
ing along the north-east comer of the gulf of Camba^y, and bounded on the south 
by Goelwar and the Bhownuggur territories, which it in every respect resembles. 
It is intersected by various small rivers of a short course, and the chief towns 
are Dundooka and Ranpoor. 

Dundooka. — ^This town stands about 60 miles S. W. from Cambay, in lat. 
22* 26' N. long. 72* & E. The territory contiguous to Dundooka, and also that 
of Ranpoor, suffered greatly in 1813 ; first in the almost total absence of rain, and 
secondly in the destmction by locusts of what little produce had survived the 
drought. 

Dollerah.— A town in the Gujerat peninsula, pergunnah of Dandooka, 10 
miles west from the golf of Cambay. Lat. 22* 18' N. long. 72* 2T E. 

Chowal. — A district in the northreastmm quarter of Gujerat, situated between 
the 23d and 24lh degrees of north latitude. The chief towns are Massaunna, 
Beejapoor, and Maunsa, and the Roopeyne the principal river. The descrip- 
tion which follows of the British pei^^unnah df Beejapoor in 1810, mey be con- 
sidered applicable to the whole of this large divisioa, at that period; since whidh 



BEEJAPOoa.] OF GUJERAT. 677 

tlie portions possessed by the Guicowar, and other native chieis, cannot be said 
to have ei^rienced any essential improvement. 

Maunsa. — town in the Maharatta territories, 29 miles N. from Ahmedabad. 
Lat. 23“ 26' N. long. 72“ 43' E. 

Beejapooh. — A town and pergunnah in the Chowal division of the Gujerat 
province, until recently belonging to the Bombay presidency, and subordinate to 
the collectorship of Kaira, but entirely insulated and surrounded by the domi- 
nions of the Guicowar. The town stands in lat. 23° 37' N. long. 72“ 46' E. about 
40 miles N. from Ahmedabad. 

Although this territory had been for several years transferred to the British 
government, in 1810, a great proportion of the villages paid no obedience to the 
British functionaries, either native or European, denied their right of interference, 
permitted no process to be served within their respective limits, and paid no 
revenue except when influenced by the presence of a military force. The 
turbulent and rapacious habits of the natives, who had in a great measure rejected 
even their superstitious prejudices, rendered the restoration of tranquillity 
extremely difficult, as the chiefs, and even the heads of villages, had exercised 
a sovereign power, deciding on the lives and properties of the vassals, the sub- 
jects of the British government. This anarchy also pervaded the neighbourihg 
districts subject to the Guicowar, in all of which, Kurree excepted, neither the 
Rajpoots, Coolies, nor any of the sacred and religious tribes, contributed in the 
slightest degree to the support of that government, which maintained peace in 
the interior and protected the territory from foreign invasion ; yet these very 
persons engrossed the most fertile portions of the lands. The Rajpoots and 
Coolies paid nothing even to their chiefs, who supported themselves by arbi- 
trary imposts on the cultivators and merchants, and by sharing in the plunder 
of ^eir predatory dependants. The laborious and industrious inhabitants were 
assessed by these freebooters i>eyond all supporting, the rate fluctuating from 
20 to 40 rupees per plough, besides incidental extortions. In addition to this 
disproportionate allotment of the burdens of government, they carried their indi- 
vidiml excesses to an extent that rendered it wholly impossible, without military 
coercion, to preserve the public peace. 

Having wholly shaken off their superstitions, these marauders very frequently 
cmnpelled the Bharot who had become their security, by their contumacy *in 
resisting engagements, to sacrifice his life, tiiereby redeeming his chariu:ter, and 
ffeeing himself from further responsibility. Ih 1810, the presence of one of 
their chiefs being required by the collector, Ms adherents discharged matdilcmks 
Of^ the head of the Bharot, his security, who being a man of respectability in 
his caste, immediatelv put himself to death. The diief fled beyond the Com* 



678 THE PROVINCE [rurres. 

pany’s territories, and afterwards endeavoured by liberal offers to effect tiie 
murder of a Brahmin, belonging to the village, who refused to be the associate 
of his crimes. In 1810, the self-sacrifices and mutilations of the Bhaiots still 
continued, notwithstanding the injunctions of the Bombay presidency to the 
contrary. This extraordinary race of people (the Bharots) appear convinced, 
tfiat tee duration of their influence depends on their punctuality and fortitude in 
undergoing the extreme appeal, and nothing restrains the desperate Coolie, but 
his dread of tee Bharots having recourse to this ultimatum. 

The neighbouring districts of Edenprara and Ahmednuggur were then in a still 
more unsettled state ; indeed to a European mind it appears remarkable how 
such a frame of government can subsist for 12 months; From the village of 
Ashroria a banditti issued at pleasure, and robbed indiscriminately every person 
they could master, carrying the more select to their village, where, by the ap^- 
catipn of torture, they endeavoured to extort a ransom from his friends. Thel^ 
ekcursions were neither rare or concealed, nor was any doubt entertained as to 
the actual perpetrators, yet such is the nature of native governments, that no 
attempt was made to extirpate them, and they were allowed to exercise their 
profession with impunity. In 1811, after considering all circumstances, the Bee- 
Japoor pergunnah was let in fiurm to Deo Row Casi, for five years, at an annual 
rent of 171,647 rupees. This measure was disapproved of by the court of 
directors, who, 'however, sanctioned it, as it could not be recalled. It has been 
observed teat in districts similarly situated with Bejapoor, the best efibcts have 
resulted from the appointment of an European officer to reside on the spot, and 
to exercme in his own person the double function of collector and nu^strate. 
The Bombay presidency long endeavoured to effect an exchange with tee 
Guicowar of this remote and insulated pergunnah, for one more contiguous, 
alteough of less annual value, which was, after much negociation, at length 
effected in 1817, when Bejapoor and its dependencies, vsdued at a rental of 
171,647 rupees, were exchanged for the pergunnah of Kuppurwunje, Balij in 
Neriad, sundry villages in tee vicinity of Kaira, and the division of Guirode, 
situate south of the Tuptee, near to Surat. — ( RovdUy Camact PubUc MS. Docu- 
ments, 4’c. Sgc.) 

Kurree. — town in the Gujerat province, 25 miles N. N. W. from the city 
of Alunedabad. Lat. 23^ 17' N. lol^'. 72** 26' E. In January, 1802, wlmn 
lifter was within a day’s march of Ahmedabad, Mulhar Row Guicowar, 

against whom he was advancing* offered to surrender the territory which he 
had tidteB frmn the legitimate. Guicowar Anund Row. and engaged to meet 
Omreroor Bmiean, at Cambay, to adjust all diffidences. Major Walker, however, 
haring leastei to doiilte tee sinGe^ these overtures, advaneednpmiKnrree, 



WAUfiWE.] OF GUJERAT. 679 

his principal fortress, where a conference was held with Mulhar Row, in which 
he acquiesced in every demand that was proposed. He was, nevertheless, all 
the while watching an opportunity for treachery ; and, accordingly, while the 
British troops lay encamped, within three miles of his capital, he suddenly 
dpened a cannonade upon them, by which several valuable officers and 40 privates 
lost their lives, tdriiough he was ultimately repulsed. Reinforcements, under Sir 
W Clarke, having joined the detachment. Major Walker summoned Mulhar 
Row to surrender, which he disregarding, his army was attacked and driven 
from their entrenchments, with the loss of 163 killed and wounded on the part 
of the assailants. He now thought proper to surrender, stipulating only for the 
safety of his person, and the fort was soon after evacuated by the enemy’s force, 
consisting of 3000 horse and 8000 foot . — (Public MS. Documents, ^.) 

Maulpoor. — town in the Gujerat province, 56milesN. E.fromAWedabad, 
Lat. 23® 21' N. long. 73® 31' E. 

Paunderwarba.— A town in the Gujerat province, 84 mUes E. N. E. from 
Ahmedabad. Lat. 23® 25' N. long. 73® 44' E. 

Ederwara. — A large subdivision of the Gujerat province, situated on the 
northern frontier, and bounded in that quarter by the province of Ajmeer, or 
Rajpootana. The chief towns are Eder, Ahmednuggur and Maulpoor, and the 
territory is comprehended in the Guicowar’s share of Gujerat; but owing to the 
turbulent and predatory habits of the natives, and of their neighbours, he derives 
but a scanty and precarious revenue from so great an extent of fertile territory, 
his authority being but imperfectly established, and all parties thin king them* 
selves allowed to rob when a suitable and convenient opportunity offers. The 
principal streams are the Sabermati, the Hatmati, the Mheyshwa, and the 
Wautruck. — ^The town of Eder stands in lat. 23® 53' N. long. 73® 2' Ei 64 miles 
N. by E. from Ahmedabad. Its chief assumes the title of Thakoor, or Lord. Ih 
1810 his ffimily wak tom with dissensions, and his country ravaged by predatory 
horse. 

Ahhednugour. — h. town in the province of Gujerat, 48 miles N. N. E. from 
Ahmedabad. Lat. 23® 38' N. long. 72® 2' E. 

Bubkuggub. — A town in the Gujerat province, 58 miles north from Ahme* 
dabad. Lat. 23® 62' N. long. 72® 39' E. 

Kbetraloo. — k town in the Gujerat province, 70 miles N. from Ahmedabad. 
Lat.23®68'N. long. 72® 36' E. 

WAuouR.—ThiB large district occupies tiie north-eastern comm* of the Gujerat 
prortnce, b^h^ bounded on the north by Ajmeer, and on tiie east by Malwah. 
The principal towns are Boongerpoor, Banswira, and Gullicote, and the Mahy 



680 THE PROVINCE [chumpanbeb. 

the chief river. The feudal superior is the Guicowar, but little is known re> 
specting the interior of this remote quarter of his territories. 

Banswara. — ^The capital of a small native state in the Gujerat provinee, 
ipehtioned by Abul Fazel, formerly subject to Odeypoor, and possessed by a 
branch of that family, but which has been for many years separated, and in 
1818, was included as an independent principality, in the British federal 
arrangements. Lat. 23° 38 N. long. 74“ 35' E. 72 miles south from Chitore. 

Chilkauree. — A town in the Gujerat province, 102 miles E. N. £. from 
Ahmedabad. Lat. 23“ 25 N. long. 74° 13' E. 

Doongurpoor. — ^The capital of a small principality in the Gujerat pro\fencer 
95 miles N. E. from Ahmedabad. Lat.. 23“ 64' N. long. 73° 50' E. Both^this 
state and Banswara have remained so long disunited from Odeypoor, that i,hey 
are virtually separate sovereignties, although still kept attached by family de- 
scent and alliance. In 1817, arrangements for protection were extended to the 
chiefs of Doongurpoor and Banswara, which appeared calculated to preserve 
tranquillity in the market towns, situated on the bordering tracts of Gujerat, 
Malwah, and Rajpootana, and for so long a time a prey to every species of 
rapine and disorder. — (Tod, ^c. 

Chumpaneer ('CAopamr^. — A large subdivision of the Gujerat province, 
situated between the 22d and 24th degrees of north latitude, and bounded on 
the east by the province of Malwah. It has two very large boundary rivers, 
the Nerbudda and Many, and is besides traversed by many smaller streams. 
By Abul Fazel in 1582, it is described as follows: — “ Circar Chumpaneer, con- 
taining nine mahals, measurement 800,337 begahs ; revenue 10,109,884 dams. 
This circar furnishes 660 cavalry and 1600 infantry.” Until recently the Peshwa, 
Smdia, and the Guicowar had portions of this territory; and there were, besides, 
many petty native chiefs, such as the Rajas of Soonth, Lunawara, and other 
places, who either wholly, or partially, rejected all feudal superiors. 

Chumpaneer (or Powangkur ). — ^The ancient capital of the district, situated 
60 miles N. E. from Broach. Lat. 22° 31' N. long. 73° 41' E. Chumpaneer, 
or Pavanghudd, is a large mountain, or rather rock, rising out of the bosom of 
Gujerat, one of the most level provinces of Hindostan. It stands about 22 
miles N. E. from Baroda, in a straight line, and except a few hillocks, in compa- 
rison, it stands alone, frowning over the south-eastern part of the district. The 
height, by a rough estimate, ihay be about 2500 feet above the level of the 
plain; and on some sides appears nearly perpendicular. It is visible ten or 
twdve miles south of Baroda, and also from the minaret of the Jumma Mus- 
jeed (mosque) at Ahmedabad, at least 70 miles distant. At the base to the 



cauMTAirtsB.] OF GtJJEILAT. 681 

nortliward no ^ remains of an ancient city, the ruins of which extend several 
mfles on each side of the mountain, but are at present covered with an impene- 
trable jungle, which, although now the abode of tigers and a few Bheels, 
abounds with the ruins of houses, temples, mosqties, and beautiful tanks. Most 
of these rmnains appear to be of Hindoo origin ; but in one direction, towards 
Hallole, formerly a suburb, but now four miles distant, the vestiges are mostly 
Mahommedan tanks, domes, and mosque$. A small space of an oblong figure 
is enclosed by a stone wall of good workmanship, flanked with towers at in- 
tervals, and built by Sultan Mahmood Gujerattee, about half of which is at 
present inhabited by a tribe of silk-weavers, who msihufacture khimkaubs, to 
the colour of which the Chumpaneer water is said to give great durability. 
The length within the walls is about three-fourths of a mile ; and the breadth, by 
conjecture, about three furlongs, with a thick jungle, in most places up to the 
walls. The mountain above is sufficiently strengthened, having two forts, the 
upper deemed impregnable by the natives, and containing a Hindoo temple of 
great antiquity, dedicated to the goddess Cali ; the defences of the lower fort 
are extensive, and the whole of diflScult approach. 

Chumpaneer is supposed to have been the capital of a Hindoo principality, 
long before the Mahommedan invasion, and was taken in the year of the Hijera, 
889, by Mahmood the Seventh, king of Western Gujerat, after a siege, or rather 
blockade (the natives say) of 12 years. It remained attached to the Mahom- 
medan kingdom of Gujerat, until captured by the Mogul Emperor, Hoomayun, 
A. D. 1534. By Abul Fazel, in 1582, it is described as a place of considerable 
strength, and even then surrounded by extensive Hindoo and Mahdmmedan 
ruins. On the decline of the Mogul empire, Chumpaneer fell into the hands of 
the Maharattas, who always considered it a place of importance, and kept it 
strongly garrisoned. In 1803, the Powanghur territory consisted of five divi- 
sions, four of which belonged to Sindia, whose deputy usually resided at 
Godra. Notwithstanding its formidable position, it was ti^en from Sindia in 
1803 by a «uo«ll detachment of the Bombay army under Colonel Woodington, 
but was restored to him again in 1804. In 1812, the town of Chumpaneer, or' 
Powanghur, contained 400 houses, of which not more than half were inhabited, 
principally by emigrant} from other parts of Gujerat. The Bheels, who appear 
to ^ the aborigines of das part of the province, speak remarkably pure Guje- 
rattee, Imvmg but litfib intermixture with strangers. In Uie estimation of the 
nadves, the dignity of tbis fortress is very great, and so stroi^y impressed are 
the adjacent pet^iM^pam of Imnawara and Soonth, of having b^ from aU an- 
BppiHii]lam|'‘tn that toarming castle, emitaiwng their tutelary deity, that 

ds 



682 THE PROVINCE [dobboi. 

they never consider themselves wholly independent of the authority that pos> 
sesses the venerable hill . — ( Miles, 5th Re^ster, ^c.) 

Mullaow. — A. town in the Gujerat province, 60 miles E. by N. from Cam- 
bay. Lat. 22" 38' N. long. 73° 42' E. 

Nakboiiote. — A town in the Gujerat province, 37 miles E. from Baroda. 
Lat. 22“ 21 N. long, 73° 59' E. 

Hallole. — A town in the Gujerat province, 52 miles E. N. E. from Cambay. 
Lat. 22° 32' N. long. 73° 22' E. 

Dubboi (Dhuhai).— town in the province of Gujerat, which in )780, 

although then in a state of rapid decay, was supposed still to contain 4 |d, 000 
inhabitants, among whom were only 300 families of Mahommedans. \ Lat. 
22° 9' N. long. 73° 25' E. 38 miles N. E. from Broach. The remains of forti- 
cations, gates, and temples, at this place indicate a former state of great 
magnificence ; and the profusion of hewn stone, and the remains of sculpWre 
scattered about, are astonishing. The ancient walls and towers were entirely 
built of large square stones, the expense of bringing which from the distant 
mountains must have been enormous, as not the smallest pebble is to be found 
in this part of Gujerat. The gate of Diamonds presents a very favourable spe- 
cimen of Hindoo architecture, extending in length 320 feet, with a proportionate 
height. Rows of elephants, richly caparisoned, support the massy fabric, and 
the whole is covered with sculptured groups of various descriptions. Wi thin 
the walls is a large tank constructed of masonry, having a grand flight of 
steps to the water. The whole is now in a state of dilapidation. During the 
height of the rains, the city is nearly insulated by the overflow of the waters. 

In 1780, the Dubboi district contained 84 villages, and yielded a revenue of 
four lacks of rupees. The produce consists of many of the smaller grains, with 
some cotton and oil seeds, wheat being little cultivated. The manufactures are 
principally coarse cotton cloths, sent from hence to he dyed at Surat, for the 
Arabian market : no very fine cotton fabrics being made here. Besides these, 
ghee is the chief commodity. This town was at an early period conquered by the 
Mahommedans, and remained in their possession until the decline of the Mogul 
power, when it was seized on by the Maharattas. Some of frie principal houses 
are well built, but the rest, native huts ; the whole, however, overshadowed by 
mangoe and tamarind trees, where dwell nearly as many monkies as there are 
human preatures below. Thrmatives consider them half men, and say, that on 
account of their lazine^,. tails were given to them, and also hair to cover their 
bpdhesw This town was captured by the British during their, eariier Miduuratta 
wars, but evacttatpi|i |he peace of 1783 .-*-(‘ Forbes, ^ 



i-uHAVAEA.] OF GUJEHAT. 683 

JhalIiOde.— *A town in the Gujerat province, 55 miles N. by £. from Chum- 
paneer. Lat. 23** 3' N. long. 74° 14' £. 

Lonawaba (Lmmumray a salt region). —k town and petty state, in the 
province of Gujerat, 63 miles £. fiom Ahmedabad. Lat. 23° 8' N. long. 
73° 43' E. Until the march of the field brigade under Lieutenant Colonel 
Holmes, in 1803, through the central parts of the Gujerat province, our know- 
ledge of these remote quarters was so inaccurate, that this plain and fertile 
district were almost lost sight of, and its consequence not duly appreciated. 
The subsequent movements of the army under Colonel Murray furnished more 
correct information of its position and relative importance. 

The Lunawara territory composes part’of the open country of Gujerat, partly 
situated on the right bank of the Mahy, and adjacent to some most important 
passes. To the south it is bounded by the Babi of Ballasinore’s domains; north- 
west by Morassi ; to the northward by Doongurpoor, including the Gulliacote 
districts ; eastward by Soonth ; and southward by Godra. It forms part of the 
five districts of Powaghur, from which, however, it is separated by a jungly 
range of hills, extending nearly to the Mahy river, the defiles through which are 
difficult and infested by the Bheel tribes. The length of this principality may 
be estimated at 35 miles from north to south, and about half that extent in 
breadth. This small tract is one of the most beautiful in the Gujerat province, 
and exhibits a great variety of picturesque scenery, being intersected by the 
Mahy river, and containing many expanded sheets of water, formed generally 
by embankments and applied to the purposes of irrigation. These advantages, 
together with its remote situation from the usual route of the Maharatta armies, 
and its vicinity to many strong passes, rendered it one of the most tranquil and 
opulent cities in this much agitated province. 

The town and fortifications of Lunawara are nearly three miles in circumfer- 
ence. The latter ascend the craggy side of a lofty range of hills, the summit 
of which is also fortified, which inspires the natives, who always connect ele- 
vation and security, with a great opinion of its strength. It is favourably situ- 
ated for merchants proceeding from Rutlamghur, and other parts of Mal- 
wah, to Ahmedabad and the interior of Gujerat. The artizans here are parti- 
cularly skilfiil. Arms, armour, military accoutrements, excellent smiths and 
carpenters abound; and, in 1803, supplied the army under Colonel Murray so 
effectually, tlmt combined with its defensible condition and advanced position, 
would have induced him to establish here the magazines and hospital, if the 
fottreas of Dohud had not at the time been amicably acquired. On account of 
its geographical position and intersection by different chuns of hills, it is of 
^pBcidt access to predatory parties. 


4 s 2 



684 THE PR0VINC5E [soora, 

In 1803, while Ltinawara formed a depot for tiie British army in its <^i«8(ma 
against Sindia, a treaty of protection was concluded with the existing govern- 
ment of that principality, exonerating it from the. tribute paid to Sindia, but 
which afterwards, in 1806, was dissolved by the Bengal government under pie-* 
texts far from satisfactory, and the country aWdoned to all the rapacity of that 
depredator. Lunawai^ was then considered as independent of Sindia, although 
a tributary, being a Moolukgeery, not a Khalsdh district, an important distinc- 
tion in Hindostan. On this occasion, doubts .^ving arisen whether or not it 
was situated in Gujerat, the point was decked in the affirmative by Colonel 
Valker, after he had examined the records of the province deposited at il|hme- 
dabad, the ancient capital. ' \ 

Prior to 1803, the reigning Rana of Lunawara was assassinated by his own 
ministry, and contentions arose, during ii^ch a body of Sindia's troops ^ere 
called in, and various murders committed; the result of which was that the late 
Rana’s widow and NanaMehtah, her minister, in conjunction with Ghullah Bha- 
rot, her paramour, misgoverned this little community at the date of Colonel 
Murray's approach in 1803. The widow dying in 1804, both ministers endea- 
voured to gain the support of British patronage, but without success. The 
reigning Raja in 1806 was under 20 years of age, of a delicate feminine appearand, 
puerile in his manners, already enervated in body and without energy of mind, 
existing a mere pageant in the hands of his ministers. Neither was he a de- 
scendant of the late Rana's, but merely a Rajpoot child, adopted by the Rana’s 
widow. The legitimate prince was then supposed to be alive and residing at 
Doongurpoor. — ( Burr, Treaties, S^c.) 

Kuddauna. — A town in the Gujerat province, 80 miles E. by N. from Ahme- 
dabad. Lat. 23“ 19' N. long. 73“ 63' E. 

SEvaAH. — k town in the Gujerat province, 66 miles E. from Ahmedabad. 
iat; 22“ 68' N. long. 73“ 42' E. 

SooNTH. — Until 1803, when Colonel Holmes's brigade explored the central 
portions of Gujerat, this town was unknown even by name. It stands in lat. 
23“ 13' N. long. 73* 66' E. 80 miles E, by N. from Ahmedabad. Soonth is 
contiguous to the Lunawara subdivision, and on the east extends ii^to the open 
country, nearly as &r as the Calibeer tank, in the vicinity of the Gudara district. 
It formerly reached west to Lunawara, and included the Jliallode, but it has 
since been curtailed of its mdht valuable possessions, and Lunawara still dis- 
putes the posseauon of , the frontier towards Calibeer, which keeps it uninha- 
bited, although very fertile. It is sometimes called South Rampoor, a 
village of the latter name ad^mnii^. 

The fort and town of Soonth stand three or four miles from ithe open country 



OF GUJEttAT. 


BABKBAM.] 


685 


to 8ie westward, from which iris separated by a Continuance of jung^ly hills of 
moderate elevation. The fort of Soonth is built on the western face of a high 
rodEy hill, which it crowns, while the lower walls commence near the base, 
where there are some tolerably well built small houses, forming a village. The 
fort is also .well built, and contains a curiously constructed palace, which with 
the ibrt are capable of being rendered qqite sufficiently strong to resist native 
annies. It is only, however, of consequence as commanding an important 
pass, for it is otherwise a poor and miserable place, although the Raja views his 
hills with infinite satisfaction, and deems his fort impregnable. like other Raj- 
poot leaders, the reigning chief in 1806 was greatly addicted to opium, and 
although only 28 years of age, exemplified the baneful.effects of that drug in a 
premature decay of body and mind. He objected, however, most strenuously 
to Soonth’s becoming a thoroughfare, either for commerce or armies, foreseeing 
a speedy dissolution of his government as a consequence, and preferring igno- 
rance, opium, and independence, to the doubtful advantages of a more civilized 
state. 

The country of Soonth is strong, difficult to penetrate, extremely troublesome 
to subdue, expensive to retain, and wholly unproductive as to revenue. The 
low lands yield rice, but scarcely any other grain ; the hilly parts afford pasture 
to the numerous cattle of the rice carriers, but during the hot season are so 
parched and destitute of water, that they are for many years deserted even by 
the savage and intractable Bheels, who are the sole and temporary inhabitants 
of these dreary wastes, and scarcely under any controul, even of the persons 
who are accounted their chiefs. Doubts having arisen in 1803, whether or not, 
Soonth was within the limits of Gujerat, the point was decided in the affirmative 
by Colonel Walker, after reference to certain documents of the province com- 
piled from the records at Ahmedabad by an ancient Dewan of the province. — 
('JBurr, <^c. ^'c.J 

Barreah.— This town stands in a valley, near tlie river Pannah, in a narrow 
spot just sufficient to comprehend the town between the river and the foot of 
the hill. It is neat, and contains many houses, built of brick and tiled. Lat. 
22® 44' N. long. 74® E. ' 80 miles E. N. E. from Cambay. The extensive wilds of 
Barreah comprise almost the whole space from Godra to Dohud, a distance of 
almost 40, miles, of which scarcely a single spot is cultivated. One muqh- 
frequented road, named, by way of eminence, the King’s Path, traverses this 
jungly region, and a ramification of it brapches off near Barreah, leading to 
HaPole; but it ia extremely difficult for cannon, and impracticable for large 
cor^. Although the Barreah jungle , is, in most places, tolerably open smd 
for troops lightly equipped, it would be almost impervious for baggie. 



686 THE PROVINCE [cambay. 

and heavy guns, if the Raja and his predatory Bheels, at all tixaes sufficiently 
disposed to rapine, chose to resist its march. On the other hand, if the Raja 
favoured an invasion, from the east, the province of Gujerat might be entered 
suddenly, and ravaged by an army of horse, bringmg the first intelligence of its 
own advance. 

The Barreah principality may be described as one among the fevr independent 
petty states, now existing in Hindostan, being not only exempted from the 
payment of any established tribute, but having a chout on all the neighbouring 
districts, of which it is very tenacious. These chouts, with certain moderate 
duties on trade, compose nearly the whole of the Raja’s scanty revenues, j— 
(Burr,8sc,) , \ 

Gopra C or Gudara ). — A town in the Gujerat peninsula, 67 miles N. E. froijp 
Cambay. Lat. 22" 48' N. long. 73" 44' E. 

Raujpoor. — k town in the Gujerat province, 87 miles N. E. from Cambay.'^ 
Lat. 22" 57' N. long. 74^ 4' E. 

Doh UP for Dwahad ). — This town is situated within a circle of hills, where 
the province of Gujerat ends and that of Malwah commences, 49 miles N. N. E. 
from Chumpaneer. Lat. 23®.6'' N. long. 74* 26' E. It is surrounded by a high 
wall, enclosing a citadel of an oblong square form. The houses are built of 
brick ; and here are found a considerable number of the Borah tribe of Mahom- 
medans. In 1803, a British hospital and depdt of stores were established here. 
(Forbes, Sgc.) 

Taunpah. — A town in the Gujerat province, 120 miles E. firom Ahmedabad. 
Lat. 22" 55' N. long. 74" 29' E. 

JBahapurpoor. — ^This town is fortified with a gurry an^ bad wall, and is 
situated on the banks of the Oze river, about seven miles from Dubboi. Lat. 
22"10'N. long. 73"45'E. 

Cherootter. — k district in the province of Gujerat, extending along the 
west side of the river Mahy, and for the most part tributary to the Guicowar. 
The principal towns are Cambay, Pitlaud, Ballasinore and Beerpoor; and the 
chief rivers the Mahy and Seyree. A portion of this geographical subdivision 
is comprehended in the British district of Kairah, where further particulars will 
be found. 

Attersoomba. — A tbwn in the Gujerat province, 24 miles E. firom Ahmeda* 
bad. Ut. 23" 4', N. long. 73" 3'E> 

Cambay — ^An anaent city m the provincA of Chijerat, situ^ed at 

the upper partu{'''the gulf of Cambay. Lat* 22* 2T N. l<mg. 72" 48 E. Near 
the town, the tides of the gulf run with great rapidity, and rise ^ffill 40 feet; 
80 ^lat, at high water, ships can am^or near ^ tewn; ImiI at lew water the 



CAUBAT.] OF GUJERAT. 68? 

river mite almoH dry, so that vessels in the harbour must lie aground in the 
mud. When Ahmedabad flourished, as the capital of an opulent and indepen- 
dent state, Cambay was its sea-port, and experienced great commercial prospe- 
rity; but it decayed with its metropolis, and is now much reduced. In 1780, 
it was only three miles in circumference, surrounded by a brick wall, perforated 
for musquetry, and flanked with 52 irregular towers, much but of repair and 
mounted with almost useless artillery. The interior exhibited a collection of 
uninhabited streets, ruined mosques, and mouldering palaces ; among which 
ruins a great quantity of wrought stone and sculpture is found, the expense of 
transporting which must have been immense, the mountains containing the 
quarries being very distant. The largest edifice, then existing, was the Nabob’s 
palace, making a poor appearance externally, and in the inside subdivided into 
many small rooms and porticos, surrounding open squares, and embellished 
with fountains and gardens in the Mogul taste. Besides this, there was a 
handsome mosque, named the Jumma Musjeed, a curious Hindoo temple; and, 
in the suburbs, many Mahommedan tombs and cemeteries. 

At this town, and others in Gujerat, are Hindoo subterranean temples, which 
have been constructed since the Mahommedan invasion, and still remain. In 
the houses of opulent persons are also found underground apartments, where 
they conceal their females and property during times of danger. In a Jain 
subterranean temple, at Cambay, are two massy statues of their deities, one 
of which is white and the other black. The inscription, on the first, intimates 
that it is an image of Parswanatha, a Jain deity, carved and consecrated in die 
reign of the Emperor Acber, A. D. 1602. The black one has merely the date 
inscribed, with the names of the two Banyans who brought it there. 

The surrounding country is pleasant, and, when well cultivated, very produc- 
tive of wheat and Hindostany grains; besides which, many fields are sown with 
carrots and other vegetables; extensive fields of cotton, and also of plants 
from which oil is expressed, are also seen ; but the whole managed in a most 
indolent, and slovenly manner. It is said that in the city and adjacent country, 
there were formerly 60,000 wells and tanks; but that, many years ago, to 
prevent the Maharatta armies from encamping in the vicinity, most of the twks 
were drained, and many of the wells filled up. Cambay was formerly celebrated 
for &bric8 of silk, chintz, and gold stuffs; but all these manufactures have 
decayed. Indigo was always a staple here ; but thd quantity e;Lported is now 
intiginficant, and the quality greatly inferior to the Bei^;al article. Elephants’ 
tee^ an d cornelians are procured h«e for the China ]nari^6t^ but the chief 
arthflea of eicport are cotton and grain, to Bombay: ^ imports are tiie same 
IS cltheGojerat ptovinc«» generally. T1»p|aist«r^ tins town, are 



688 THEPmoVINCB 

particularly expert. In tiie noarth*weat qianter of buite, it it fEqppoood IlMlBw 
saline pardclesin the water* eren where ronote firom ^ ooem* give that ap* 
pearance of dampness and coarseness to the walls for whidi they ate ranaricr 
able, when compared with those of Coromandel. The Persian language is 
hire spoken in great purity, on account of the number df emigrants from that 
country who settled here during tiie ciyil wars of Persia, and also many 
Nadir Shah’s soldiers who deserted and retired with their plunder to Cambay. 

Major Wilford is of opinion that in the 6th century Tamara Nogara, or CamW 
(Cambay), was the capital of the Balarayas, and perhaps of the' Hindoo 
emperors of the west, when the two dignities happened to be united in the s^ae 
person. Osorio, a Portuguese writer, says, that when Francis d’Almeida 
landed near Cambay, in the year 1616, he saw the ruins of sumptuous buildings 
and temples, the remains of an ancient city. It is said such ruins still exist\to 
the south of Cambay, on the Broach side, where there are temples and otblbr 
buildings half buried in s^d, with which this place was overwhelmed. Cambay 
was taken and pillaged by the Mahommedmis, in A. D. 1297, during the reign 
of Alla ud Deen. In 1780, it was governed by a native prince, named Moh> 
maunkhan, whose father had been Nabob of Ahmedabad when it was conquered 
by the Maharattas, on which event he fled to Cambay, and there fixed his 
sovereignty; but his remaining territory was small, ill cultivated, and subjected 
irt so heavy a tribute, by the Maharattas, that his annual revenue did not 
dxceed two lacks of rupees. His military establishment then consisted of 
2000 Sindean and Arabian infantry and 600 cavalry. 

In 1813, during some political discussions, the Nabob of Cambay protested 
against certain measures, which he asserted were encroachments on the inviola* 
bility and independence of his sovereignty; in consequence of which, inquiries 
were made to ascertain tim justice of his claims to complete independence. 
Huring these researches, an authentic document came to light which established 
the fact, that 42 years s^o the Peshwa exercised a divided jurisdiction both 
civil and criminal; but whether or notthis right had been subsequently concede 
to the Nabob remains undecided. Travelling distance from Bombay 281 ; from 
Delhi 663; from Calcutta 1263 miles.— Drttmmmd, Wilford^ FubUq 
Docume$it3, Elmore^ Maikt, Retmellf Sgc. Sgc. 

Cambay (Chdf of). — gulf on the north-west coast of India, whidi penetittes 
abottt 150 miles into the provincd' of Gqjerat. The tides, in this arm the sea, 
ran with mnasiQg vc^ktcity/ ahd at low water leave botteoit of die dry 
frmn lat. 22° S' N. toCambay town. No vessel to above Qo^gway* 

« <me tide, frvmi dmafaoner, it b<^ often att||^^ wiA ba^^eoiaMigpMHio^ Ibt 
M th^ caniKit get into Canibay meek, di^mWietam toOcugway, wMdhii 



KAiRA.] OF GUJERAT. 689 

distant five lei^es. In many places the current is so rapid, that if a ship takes 
the ground she immediately upsets, and, in all probability, the whole crew 
perish. It is supposed that' the depth of water in the Cambay gulf has 
{Nrogressively been decreasing for more than two centuries. Fifteen miles east 
of Cambay city, the bed of the gulf is reduced to six miles broad, and is dry 
at ebb-tide ; but the passage ought never to be attempted, eitiier on horse or 
toot, without a native guide, as there is danger of wandering among the mud 
and quicksands, and being overtaken by the flood tide, which rushes furiously 
in like the bore in the Calcutta river. — ( Eltnore, Drummond^ 8^c.) 

Petlad. — A town and pergunnah in the province of Gujerat, 15 miles N. by 
E. from Cambay. Lat. 22° 32' N. long«72° 67' E. Half of the pergunnah was 
oomprehended in the British territories, and the establishment of a court of 
justice here, was at one time under the contemplation of the Bombay presidency; 
the other half then belonged to the Peshwa. In 1818, the British half was 
ceded to the Guicowar in exchange for his share of Omrut. The caste of Dhers 
are here exempted from the general duty imposed on them all over Gujerat, 
of serving as guides to strangers. Formerly, at this place, a traveller might 
seize on the first person he met, and compel him either to act as guide or find a 
substitute. 

Nappah. — town in the province of Gujerat, 30 miles N, E. from Cambay. 
Lat. 22° 32' N. long. 73° 9' E. 

Ballasikore. — A town and petty state in the province of Gujerat, the 
chief of which, named the Babi of Ballasinore, was tributary to the Peshwa. 
It is situated near the Seyree river, about 41 miles E. from Ahmedabad. Lat. 
22° 59' N. long. 73° 25' E. 

Kaira. — Alarge district in the Gujerat province ; the territories belonging to 
which are so extended, straggling, and intermixed with others belonging to native 
powers, that it is almost impossible to point them out. It consists principally of 
lands ceded at different periods by the Guicowar and Peshwa, especially the 
first, and formed into a separate jurisdiction under the. Bombay presidency, 
having its head-quarters in the city of Kaira. The mass of natives in this region 
have always been considered an untractable race, and it has required the greatest 
perseverance and abilities, of some of the most eminent of the Bombay civil and 
military servants, to reduce them to any species of subordination ; but, in spite 
oi Jtbeir inveterate habits, they are gradually yielding to the mild and conciliatory 
authority now exercised over them. The northern portions, however, con- 
tinue much exposed to the irruptions of plundering parties of horsemen from 
the neighbouring territories belonging to the native chiefs, who still find tlmt 
^ vUlagers sympatitize utitit tiiem in their predatory habits. 

voi. t. 4 T 



690 


THE PROVINCE [KAikA. 


The system of revenue collection, reported by ColonelThomas Munro, generally 
prevails in Kaira, with one distinction, which is, that instead of fixing the rental 
of a village, and then portioning out the parts to be contributed by each culti- 
vator ; in Kaira, the rental is first determined, and the gross amount of the 
individual rents, whatever it may prove to be, constitutes the total rent of the 
village. This system is so consonant with what is already established in the 
province, that to give it effect has more the appearance of regulating what has 
always existed, than the introduction of any innovation. In this district, also, 
the revenues are fully and punctually realized ; and the sale of landed property, 
for the purpose of making good the demands of the state, is a measure scarjcely 
known in any of the territories subject 4o the Bombay presidency. \ 

The revenue of the tracts composing the Kaira collectorship, when cedeq in 
1805-6, amounted to 1,300,155 rupees. In 1814, the gross revenues wWe 
as follows : — \ 


Land 1,414,762 rupees. 

Sayer or variable imposts . . 178,435 

Net customs 45,121 

Sundries 46 


Total 1,638,365 

And the succeeding year, 1815-16, the gross revenues amounted to 1,821,868 
rupees, making an increase of 521,713 rupees. The increase, on the cessions 
made by the Peshwa, averaged more than 90 per cent, on the rental at which 
they were received ; while that from the Guicowar portion averaged about 27 
per cent. The extreme high price which the produce of the soil realized in 
1813-14, on account of the scarcity which had prevailed in Gujerat, tended in 
that year not only greatly to enrich the cultivating class, but all persons what- 
ever possessing an interest in the lands, which number comprehends four-fifths 
of the inhabitants. 

The number of Bhatts and Bharots in this quarter of Gqjerat is great, and 
their influence considerable, as may be inferred from their being, until very re- 
cently, resorted to in all the districts north of the Mahy river, not only for the 
security of the revenue, but for submission to the law, and personal appearance 
of the inhabitants when summoned. The means by which these impostors 
their influence is by operating on the superstitions of the Hindoos, who 
revere persons that dare to have recourse to traga when they are oppressed or 
insulted. Tragu is an act of violence, sometimes on their own peratms, at 
others, by patting some person to death ; but usually by a cut on their own ana, 
or any part of t^eir body ; &e party causii^ this act, however innocently, 



KAiEA.] OF GUJERAT. 691 

being supposed responsible for its iniquity, and is in general so panic struck, 
tbat he acquiesces in whatever is demanded of him. Should he, however, prove 
obstinate, and resist the imposition, the Bharots assemble in great numbers at 
his door, and threaten, that unless he complies with their requisition, they will 
-immolate a human being. The object they select for this purpose is commonly 
an old woman, not of their own tribe, but of that named Trt^lla, a race employed 
about the temples, and of the lowest caste of Hindoos. In prosecuting these 
attempts at intimidation, one or two of this tribe frequently become victims ; 
but if still unavailing, they proceed, as a dernier resort, to the sacrifice of their 
own mothers, sisters, daughters, and wives; and what is equally extraordinary, 
these infatuated creatures with eageme,ss offer themselves to what they esteem 
a species of martyrdom. During the imbecile government of the native princes, 
the efficacy of their controul in Gujerat depended greatly on the support they 
afibrded to the Bharots ; of course, no measures were ever contemplated to 
to weaken aminfluence so intimately blended with that of the ruling power. 

After the cession to the British government, the practice appears to have 
fallen greatly into disuse, as the trial of a Bhatt in 1808, for the murder of his 
own daughter, afforded the only example (until 1816) of the sacrifice, known 
to have occurred within the Kaira jurisdiction, since the establishment of a 
regular court of justice. On that occasion, the prisoner acknowledged the 
commission of the act, but pleaded ignorant of its being one for which he could 
be considered criminal, as he conceived such extremities authorized by the 
customs of his tribe. In some of the pergunnahs, such as those of Gogo, Ran- 
poor, Dundooka, and 'a large portion of Dholka, abounding with the most 
turbulent classes, and where the introduction of the British sovereignty was 
long protracted, the Bhatt influence had never been introduced, yet, notwith- 
standing the deplorable condition of the society when first ceded, the efforts of 
a regular administration of justice gradually operated a reform in the habits of 
the Grassias and Coolies, without the extraneous aid of superstitious agency, 
which, in fact, had gained strength in those territories only, where conflicting 
Maharatta pretensions paralyzed the operations of the regular police, rather 
thkn in places where the vestiges of an established government continued. In 
fiitct, the agency of the Bhatts, if at all necessary, seemed Solely adapted for 
the cohtrouling of the wildest Mewassie villages. In 1816, a disturbance 
attended with bloodshed, broke out in the village of Mahtur, not &r from the 
city of Kaira, caused by the resistance of the Bhatts to the orders of govern- 
ment, regarding the mensuration of their lands. The ferinent, however, did not 
eictend, and was viewed by the great mass of the population with feelings 
deeidely adverse to the cause of the a^tators, who very generally regretted toe 

4 T 2 



692 THE PROVINCE [kaira. 

forbearance that was evinced by government on the occasion. They had hoped, 
that by proceeding to extremities, a sympathy in their behalf would have been 
excited, which would eventually give them a victory over the laws; whereas, in 
consequence of the moderate line of conduct pursued, the great body of the 
Inhabitants contented themselves with remaining tranquil spectators. Since 
the perpetration of this outrage, the security of the Bhatts for the revenue has 
been wholly dispensed with, nor has the least inconvenience been experienced 
from the want of their services. 

The prevailing offences tried at the Kaira circuit sessions, in 1811 and 1812, 
were burglaries or house-breakings, and those punished by the magistrEite,| lar- 
cenies and petty thefts; cases of murder were very rare; and, althoughlthe 
fabrication of base money was so common, both in this district and the adjacent 
countries, as to frustrate all ordinary means of suppression, few or no cases 
were brought before the Judges. Gang robberies are by far the most frequdnt 
crime ; but the difficulty of seizing the delinquents on the spot, or tracing the 
leaders to conviction, accounts for its rarely forming a class of crimes in the 
calendar. But the increasing confidence of merchants and travellers, and the 
extended cultivation of waste lands, tend to prove the decrease of this species 
of crime ; a fact which the natives admit as unquestionable. As perpetrators of 
these atrocities, the Coolie tribe stand conspicuous ; but even this lawless race 
appear to be gradually forsaking habits which seemed indelible, and it is probable 
that the continuance of a firm and steady system of government, by encou- 
raging their confidence, recognizing their just rights, and repressing their evil 
propensities, will in course of time convert them to industrious cultivators and 
peaceable subjects. 

In 1812, another very general crime was bharuttye, which greatly infested the 
pergunnah of Dholka, and was committed most frequently by Rajpoot Grassias, 
who, although they have every thing to lose, frequently disregard their real 
interests, when set in competition with their notions of false honour, private 
pique, or fancied oppression ; sometimes to shun the payment of just debts, at 
others to obtain an object, by unwarrantable means, to which they have no 
equitable claim. With the view of obtaining their ends, these persons desert 
their houses, and become vagabonds (bharwattye), attacking all indiscriminately; 
and until coerced by the strong hand of the British government, they ultimately 
always succeeded in gaining tjjeir object. Formerly disputes respecting boun- 
daries were very frequent, and were decided by the contests of several hundreds 
of armed men, but these have almost disappeared. The traga of the Bharots 
might also be included in the calendar of crimes ; but under the influence of a 
mild, steady, and A^t precipitate judicial system, this also b rapidly fidlii^ 
btlodbuse. 



*AiaA,] OFGUJERAT 693 

Tlie authority of the law in the western districts ceded by the Peshwa was, 
in 1812, in its in&ncy. The Rajpoots of that quarter are a high spirited race, 
requiring the curb of a strong arm, but they are not perseveringly untractable, 
when they perceive the necessity or advantage of obedience. Kaira, the seat of 
the court, however, is too distant for the vigorous maintenance of its authority, 
unless seconded by a very efficient local jurisdiction. In these ill protected 
spots, long before sunset, the ploughs are unyoked, and the wells deserted by 
the peasantry, that they may in time seek refuge within the wall or bound hedge 
of the village ; thus leaving immense tracts of valuable land in a state of nature, 
which under a more efficient police would, by increased cultivation, amply repay 
the expenditure incurred. This argument for strong government establishments 
is founded on an interested motive ; but a still stronger may be deduced from 
the inveterate habits of the people governed. It is probably so many s^es since 
these have learned to make a common cause against the existing government, 
that it is as yet hopeless to expect any kind of assistance from any part of the 
society, in tracing or apprehending any criminal of distinction. So contrary 
does the current run, that it is held scandalous to assist in his seizure ; and the 
securities tendered are of no avail, as the parties forfeit their l^nd, and suffer its 
penalties, rather than surrender the delinquent when the government is con- 
sidered as a party against him, — even th^ir own deadly feuds seem to cease 
when their lawful, superior interferes. 

In the succeeding year, 1813, on a retrospect of the general police of the dis- 
trict, it appeared that petty offences had either considerably increased, or were 
more frequently detected than before, and that any addition of more heinous 
crimes might be ascribed to the prior drought and great famine. The crime of 
murder had certainly not become more frequent, and gang robbery had greatly 
decreased, much improvement having taken place in the Coolie tribes. The 
cessions from the Peshwa on the western side of the gulf of Cambay were then 
tranquil, and the feuds of the different tribes prevented, as heretofore, from 
breaking out into open hostilities, while the incursions of the Catties from 
without had been effectually repressed, and the authority of the Guicowar 
throughout the Gujerat peninsula established on a former basis. — (Keaie', Public 
MS. Documents, llotcks, J. A. Grant, Bebertson, l^c, <§’C. i^'c.) 

Kaira. — ^The capital of the preceding district, and head quarters of the judge 
and magistrate, situated in lat. 22” AH' N. long. 72” 48’ E. about 40 miles N. of 
Camhay. This is probably not a very ancient town, at least we do not find that 
it any figure in history, untfl selected for the seat of a judicial establish- 
ment. Li I7801t was described by Mr. Forbes as a large town, belonging to 
the Guicowar, near the confluence of two small rivers, the Wautruck and the 



THE PROVINCE 


04 THE PROVINCE [balu. 

Seyree, and although such a length of time jb&a elapsed Dve have no more recent 
description. It was then fortified in the Hindostany mode, with a brick wall 
flanked by irregular towers, the buildings of the town being almost concealed by 
trees, which did not indicate a very crowded population. 

, In 1814, the convicts at this place, to the number of 57, rose on and assaulted 
their guard with the view of effecting their escape, in attaining which object they 
evinced such persevering resolution, that 19 were killed and 12 wounded before 
the mutiny could be suppressed. The remainder were re>captured unhurt. 
Many of these were imprisoned, but for short periods of time ; and during the 
drought and famine, the comforts of their situation excited the envy of m^y 
starving wretches on the outside of the jail. — ( Forbes, Ironside, i^c. S^c.) i 

Mahtur. — k town in the Gujerat province, a noted residence of Bhatts and 
Bharots, four miles S. S. W. from Kaira. Lat. 22® 44' N. long. 72® 47' E. \ 

Nebiad. — k town in the district of Kaira, 28 miles N. N. E. from Camba;^. 
Lat. 22® 44' N. long. 73® E. In the 17th century this was a place of great trade, 
and in 1780 st3l contained many inhabitants, mostly employed in cotton manu« 
factures. At that date it was about three miles in circumference, and fortified 
in the eastern manner, with a slight wall flanked by round towers at irregular 
distances. In 1803, along with the surrounding lands, it was ceded by the; 
Guicowar in part payment of the subsidiary force; the revenue of both was 
then valued at 17,000 rupees per annum. In 1815, the whole of the revenues 
of Neriad, which includes many villages classed as refractory, was recovered, 
under all the increased perplexities of detailed management, without the interr 
vention of a single Bhatt security. 

Dholka. — k town and pergunnah in the Kaira district, 20 miles S. by W. 
from Ahmedabad. Lat. 22® 45' N. long. 72® 32' E. Three-fifths of the exten- 
sive and valuable pergunnah of Dholka are calculated only for wheat and grain. 
Of the remaining portion of the soil, one half at least is appropriated to the 
cultivation of rice, and another to that of the usual light grains. In 1804, the 
Grassias of this pergunnah, when they came to settle for the revenues, claimed 
an exemption from controul even for their servants and dependants, but it was 
then refused, and since that time no cowl or security bond has been thought of. 
( Robertson, Public MS. Documents, 8gc.) 

Kote. — k town in the province of Gujerat, 10 miles ftwn Dholka. Lat. 
22®4(yN. long. 72®26'E. 

Peitapook . — k town in the province of Gujerat, 19 milea N. from the city of 
Ahmedabad. Lat. 23® 17' N. long. 72® 45' E. 

a town in ^ Kaira district, 33 miles S. E. from Ahmedabad. Lat. 
22®40'N'. loi^. 73® 10^ This town with the lands attached, aUboiv^aUttated 



AHME0ABAD.3 OF GUJERAT. 695 

in the centre of the pergunnah of Neriad, and insulated on all sides by British 
possessions, belonged to the Guicowar until 1817, when it was ceded at a 
valuation of 40,000 rupees per annnm, in exchange for the district of Beejapoor. 
Before this period, the communication necessary between it and the other 
Guicowar territories, was a source of much annoyance to the Neriad vills^es, 
owing to the free forage and other immunities to which the troops and officers of 
a native state consider themselves entitled while marching. It afforded also an 
asylum for the refractory of the Neriad pergunnah, while its Coolie inhabitants 
often lent their names to their fraternity of that neighbourhood, when their pro- 
ceedings were such as to require a cloak .— Public MS, Documents, ^c. ^'c.) 

Kuppurwunje. — The town of Kuppurwunje stands on the eastern banks of 
the Mooer river, about 27 miles due east from the city of Ahmedabad, 36 miles 
N. by E. from Kaira, and 60 miles N. N. W. from Baroda. Lat. 23° 2' N. 
long. 73° 9' E. The town is surrounded by a wall, and has been estimated to 
contain 3000 houses, of which the best are occupied by a tribe of Bhozas, who 
carry on a considerable manufacture of soap and bangles, and which, with 
dubbers to hold ghee and oil, may be considered the staples of the place. The 
houses are well built for an Indian town, which is owing to the cheapness of the 
materials, the bed of the river affording a supply of stones, and the pergunnah 
abounding with the finest mangoe and moura trees, used by the lower classes for 
the construction of their dwellings. The population is computed to exceed 
10,000 souls. The pergunnah of Kuppurwunje is situated to the north of the 
Mahy, but the lands belonging to it stretch principally to the south of the town 
along the banks of the Mooer river, extending from thence near the confines of 
the Moordah pergunnah to the Wautruk. Among the ravines and jungles of the 
last mentioned river, are situated the most refractory of the villages, from whence 
the Coolies used formerly to sally, and plunder their less active neighbours. 
Kupperwunje also stands in the vicinity of the most powerful and turbulent 
Mewassie chieftains, such as those of Bhojpoora, Amliara, Phoonadra, Kurral, 
and Wandwa. It formed one of the tracts given by the Guicowar, in 1817, in 
exchange for the pergunnah of Beejapoor, when it was valued at* 60,000 rupees 
per ahnum . — (Public MS. Documents, §’c. ^’c.) 

Ahmedabad. — An ancient and celebrated city in the province of Gujerat, of 
which it is the Mahommedan capital, situated on the banks of the river Saber* 
matty, which washes its western walls, and with other confluent streams falls 
into the gulf of Cambay, near the city of that name. Lat. 23° 1' N. long. 
72° 42^ E. F)rom being one of the lar^t capitals in the east, it Imd contracted 
in 1730 to five miles and three quarters in circumference, surrounded by a high 
wall, with in^fttlar towers every 60 yards, and 12 prindpal gates, besides many 



696 THE PROVINCE Cahmedabad. 

s&Ily ports. Not far from the city is a fine tank named Kookarea« about a mile 
in circumference, lined with hewn stones, and having steps leading down to tlm 
water. This city was built about the year 1426, by the Sultan Ahmed Shah, (m 
' . the site of a still more ancient town, and is now much decayed ;< but tottering 
minarets, ruinous palaces, mouldering aqueducts and caravanserais still indicate 
its former grandeur. These ruins appear to occupy a circumference of 30 miles, 
and the early importance of Ahmedabad may be inferred, from its being one of 
the four cities, which, during the reign of Acber, possessed a mint. In 1780, 
the villages round Ahmedabad were large, and built of brick in timber frames. 
Small scattered hamlets were then, as now, counted unsafe, the peasantry! being 
frequently obliged to unite against the attempts of predatory marauders, i^und 
the walls of dJimedabad all was desolation, the resort of wild beasts! and 
noxious reptiles. 

In the early part of the 17th century, the Dutch and other European^ and 
Asiatic merchants carried on an active traffic to Ahmedabad, where the greatest 
variety of the rich gold and silver-flowered silks were manufactured, as also silk 
and cotton goods of every description, and exported from Cambay, which was 
then the sea-port of this metropolis. The bade in indigo was then great; and 
here- the best workmen in steel, gold, ivory, enamel, and mother of pearl, were 
to be found. It -was also noted for excellent paper and lackered ware ; but of all 
this extensive commerce, few traces are now to be found, if a few kinkobs and 
some lackered ware ornamented with gold, and palanquins, be excepted. The 
p ain ters were famous, but have declined with their city. About two miles from 
Ahmedabad is the Shah Baugh, or foyal garden, planted nearly 200 years ago, 
when Kurreem, the son of the Emperor Shah Jehan, was viceroy of Ghijerat. In 
1780 it still continued in excellent repair, but is now sadly dilapidated. In 
Ahmedabad, as in most large cities of Hindostan, there were formerly news 
writers, who at midnight recorded all the transactions of the preceding day, 
and dispatched their journals to their difierent correspondents; but this 
trade, owing to the great political revolution in India, is 'frst declining, and is 
here altogether extinguished. A great proportion of the itinerant musicians, 
players, and poets, named Bhawee or Basdaree, so common throughout Gujerat, 
come from the neighbourhood of this town. In the Gujerattee villages their 
performances are paid for at the public expense, as are also the bands of 
wrestlen and jugglers. 

About the middle of the Ifith century, this city was the capital of a flouridting 
independent kingdmn, particularly during the reign of Sultim Mahmood Begra, 
A. 1>. 1450. In the early part of the I8tb century, whmi the Mogul empire foil 
to decay, tibe governor of ^Uimedabad and Cambay assumed the sovereign^ of 



AHlfEDABAD.] OF GTJJERAT. 697 

this portidn of Gujerat, which continued in succession to Mahmaun Khan, during 
whose reign it was conquered by the Maharattas under Ragunath Row, and the 
seat of government transferred to Cambay. Ahmedabad continued with the 
Haharattas until 1779, when it was stormed by a British army under General 
Goddard, and ceded to Futteh Singh Quicowar, but restored to the Peshwa at 
rile peace of 1783, with reservation of the Guicowar s privileges. In 1803, the 
latter was influenced to grant a ten years’ lease of his share to the Guicowar, 
which expired in 1 813, on which event, the Peshwa refused to accede to a renewal 
of the farm in favour of the Guicowar, although to prevent the clashing of autho* 
rities it was a measure much wished for, and strongly pressed upon him by the 
British government. It was apprehended by the latter that the prejudical effect 
of the resumption of the farm, would soon be felt in a country naturally rich 
and fertile, and just emerging from a state of barbarism and misery to one of 
comparative civilization, and that it would soon revert to its former condition of 
anarchy and insubordination. 

As the Peshw'a, however, continued obstinate, on the 23d of October, 1814, 
his share of the Ahmedabad farm was transferred to an officer appointed by him, 
or rather by his favourite Trimbnckjee Dainglia, to whom he had given it, to 
receive charge, who commenced his functions by affording protection to the 
plundering Catties, Juts, and Coolies, and acting otherwise in a most unjustifi- 
able manner. On this occasion an inquiry was instituted by the Bombay presi- 
dency, with the view of ascertaining the nature of the contradictory claims set 
up to this unhappy country, by the Peshwa and Guicowar respectively. It 
appeared from the result of the investigation, that the claims of these two poten- 
tates on this district are, 1st, on the city; 2dly, on the surrounding country ; 
and 3dly, on the petty states in this quarter of Gujerat. The Peshwa claimed 
the entire government of the city, but admitted that the Guicowar shared in 
the collections, and was entitled to place a person in every public office to ascer- 
tain the amount of the fees, taxes, and other branches of revenue, and thus 
prevent the embezzlement of his master’ s share. The Guicowar’s ministers on 
the other hand, claimed a larger share in the government of the city than is 
allowed by the above statement, and asserted, that one of the city gates belonged 
by right to the Guicowar. In the country, the villages of the Guicowar and 
Peshwa .were found to be intermixed, but it did not appear that both partici- 
pated in the government or collections within the same village, except in th^e 
instance of Piriaud. In. respect to the petty states, the tributes of the two 
princes were distinct, and each of them realized his own demand the' best way 
h«i could! 

YOE. 1. 


4u 



698 THE PROVINCE [saiob*. 

Such was the anomaknu constitution and Magna Charta of 
the principles on which the Peshwa delegated Us authority were calc uinted to 
throw the country into the utmost confusion. The Sirsoobah, or governor, criT 
1816, was advanced to riie uncontroul^ government of this fertile territory, in 
■conuderation of paying a revenue to tiie Peshwa whidx the country was unahi# 
to afford, except extorted by the severest oppression. Under these circum* 
stances, the means adopted by him to gratify the avarice of all parties, drove the 
Coolies within the Ahmedabad district to the necessity of forming combinations 
to resist extortion, while the distance.of the seat of government enabled the 
soubahdar to practice every species of iniquity with impunity, to which he was 
besides impelled by the idea, that, either from caprice or a higher offeir, his 
administration would be but of short duration. To save the expense he ktmt up 
no regular military establishment, trusting to the soldiers of fortune who a^ al- 
ways to be had in Gujerat. From among these he engaged a body of mercenaries, 
but only for the period of the year when the revenue collections are undertaken; 
at all other times the territory and its inhabitants were left to shift for themselves. 
It had in consequence been found quite unavailing by the different British func- 
tionaries to call on the Peshwa’s officers to remedy evils caused by their own 
misconduct. If they had the inclination, they frequently wanted the means, and 
they had always a ready evasion by the subterfuge of referring the matter under 
dispute to Poona, from whence no satisfactory answer ever returned. In addi- 
tion to its other misfortunes, Ahmedabad in 1812 was afflicted by a pestilence, 
which raged with such violence, that half of the whole inhabitants (estimated by 
the Baroda resident at 200,000) were supposed to have perished. 

Travelling distance from Bombay 321 miles; from Poona 389; from Delhi 
610; and from Calcutta, by Oujein, 1234 miles. — (Forbes^ PubUc MS. Docu-^ 
mmts, Camac, RermeU, Drummond, ^c. Sgc.) 

Umlvalla. — ^A town in the Gujerat province, 30 miles N. N. £. from Ahmed- 
abad. Lat. 23** 14' N. long. 73** 6' £. 

Saolee. — A. town in the Gujerat province, 40 miles -N. £. from Cambay. 
Lat. 22® 46' N. long. 73“ 22' £. 

Ometa. — k town in the Gujerat province,. 26 iqiles £. from Cambay. Lat. 
22*24'N. long. 73“ 13' £. 

Baeoda. — ^The capital of a Maharatta chieftain know by the fomily>name of 
Gtucowar (Gaikevad) who divides with the British the largest and finest portion 
of Gujerat, his particular share (in 1818 about 12,000 square miles) lyii^ prin- 
cipal in the northern ffistricts. Lat. 22“ 21' N. long. 78“ £. 43 miles 

N. by iB. from Broaefo. Hus place is mentioned by Abul Faxd, and in Aureng- 



BAEODA.] OF GUJBRAT. 699 

nbe’i iwgn wm a large and wealthy town, and which last appellatioiv it still 
deserves, as during die wars with Sindia and Holcar (1803*6), the native bankers 
of Baroda advanced the British armies, at different times, to the amount of one 
crore and a half of rupees m ready money. In 1780, the fortifications of this 
place consisted of slight wails, with towers at irregular distances, and several 
double gates. The tovm is intersected by two spacious streets, dividing it into 
four equal parts, and crossing at the market place. The ruins of some handsome 
Mogul buildings are still to be seen, but the Maharatta structures are mean and 
contemptible. Near the city is a stone bridge over the river Viswamitra, which 
is remarkable as being almost the only one in Gujerat, where the streams are 
generally crossed in ferry boats, or on a*light platform floated by empty earthern 
pots. In the environs are several magnificent wells with steps down to the bot* 
tom. The Brodera district is rich, well cultivated, and in many places enclosed 
and adorned with hedges of tamarind and mangoe trees ; the soil is mostly 
light and of a reddish colour. Provisions of all descriptions are cheap, and 
game plentiful. In 1818, the total population of the city was estimated at about 
100,000 persons. 

The rise of the Guicowar’s power in Gujerat was almost contemporaneous with 
that of the Peshwa in the Deccan. Pillajee Guicowar was patel, or managing 
proprietor of a village, and afterwards an officer under Trimbuck Row, the 
Maharatta governor of Gujerat, when he was defeated and slain in A. D. 1731. 
After many struggles and numberless intrigues with various Maharatta families, 
he established his own power by the same artifices as had been practised by 
the Peshwa himself, towards the pageant Raja of Sattarah. Dying in 1747, his 
son Damajee succeeded to his power, but being circumvented and overcome by 
the Peshwa Balajee Row, he was obliged to cede half his territories, and 
adcnowledge his dependance for the other half. Damajee was at the battle of 
Paniput in 1761, and escaped alive; but dying in 1768, Futteh Singh, through 
the ii^uence of the Peshwa, to whom he i^reed to pay an enormous sum, suc- 
ceeded, and by the aid of the British effected the expulsion of his rival. Futteh 
Singh died in 1789, and was succeeded by his brother Manajee, who died in 
1792. To him succeeded Govind Row, who dying in September, 1800, the 
throne was occupied by his oldest legitimate son Anund Row. This prince being 
a man of weak intellects, his brother Canojee seized the dewanship, but the 
rigour of riiis. administration being disliked, he was deposed and imprisoned. 
Some time afterwards his cause was espoused by Mulhar Row, first cousin to 
the late Govind Row, and a considerable Jag^iiredar, who marched to his assist- 
ance with an army of 10,000 mm. But die British government determining to 

4.V3 



700 THE PROVINCE [baeoda. 

support the legitimate heir Anund Row, a detachment under Major Walker waa 
advanced for the purpose of supporting his authority, which totally defeated 
. Mulhar Row’s army, and captured his principal fortress named Kurree. 

This state was first noticed in the political transactions of the British nation ia 
the year 1782, at the peace then concluded with the Maharatta chieftains of 
Poona, when it was stipulated, that the established jaghire of Futteh Sing)k 
Guicowar (who had sided with the British) should be guaranteed to him, the 
said Guicowar performing the same obedience to the Peshwa as had before been 
customary. By the treaty of Bassein, concluded with the Peshwa on the 31st 
December, 1802, the British government engaged to arbitrate and adjust all 
differences between the Peshwa and Guicowar. An alliance was then formed 
with tihe Guicowar, who made several cessions of territory, and consented to 
receive and support a subsidiary force of 2000 regular infantry. With the yiew 
of enabling the Raja to fulfil his pecuniary engagements, it was deemed necessary 
to effect a considerable reduction of the Arab troops, who had always mani-^ 
fested a disposition to mutiny ; but these mercenaries being in possession of the 
town and person of Anund Row, their dispersion threatened to be of dfficult 
attainment, although quite essential to the complete establishment of the Gui- 
cowar's authority. In furtherance of this object his Majesty’s 86th Regiment was 
dispatched to Baroda, when one of the Arab officers with the acquiescence of 
the Raja, offered to put the British troops in possession of one of the gates, but 
this stratagem failing of success, it became necessary to resort to a regular siege. 
Baroda was accordingly invested in January 1803, and obstinately defended 
by the Arabs until a practicable breach was effected, when they capitulated, 
binding themselves to evacuate ail the fortresses, liberate the Raja, and quit the 
province, on payment of their arrears. 

By the above mentioned treaty it was determined likewise, that all the Guico* 
war’s political arrangements at Poona should be conducted by the British resi- 
dent conjunctiy with the Guicowar’s vakeel. 

By a supplementary treaty, concluded on the 18th February, 1803, tiio fol- 
lowing dis^ets were permanently ceded for tiie support of the subsidiary forces 


viz. 

The pergunnah of Dholka, yidding a revenue of . 450*000 rupeei% 

Ditto of Neriad, ditto 176,000 

Ditto of Bejapoor, ditto 130,000 

The Tuppa of Kitfree, contiguous to Bejapoor . . 25,000 


Rt^eeaTOQim 



a^iRODA.] OF GUJERAT. 701 

1000 infantry, for the payment of which the following cessions were made 
over; viz. 

The pergunnah of Matter, valued at 130,000 

Ditto of Modha, ditto 1 10,000 

The customs of Kimkatodra, north of the Tuptee . . 50,000 


Rupees 290,000 

Subsequent events produced a still more intimate connexion between the Bri- 
tish government and the Guicowar state, the affairs of the latter being involved 
in such confusion, and the debt accumulating so rapidly, as to threaten 
the absorption of the whole revenue, ki this dilemma the Guicowar solicited 
the interference of his allies, and agreed to delegate the management of his 
affairs to the British resident at his court, which office happened at that time, 
fortunately for himself, to be filled by Colonel Alexander Walker of the Bom- 
bay military establishment. Through the exertions of that able officer many 
important improvements were carried into effect. A large proportion of the 
annual revenue, before fluctuating and capricious for want of power to enforce 
the collections, was thenceforward realized with punctuality, and without the 
yearly interference of a military force, whose depredations were searcely less 
destructive than those of a hostile army. The Guicowar's family in all its 
branches was amply provided for, and his tumultuary troops reduced to sub- 
ordination and brought under discipline. In 1807, the Guicowar’s revenue 
amounted to 7,494,663 rupees, and the expenditure in the reformed establish- 
ment to 6,987,685 rupees. In 1810, the revenues were 6,846,979 rupees, and 
the expenditure 5,005,582 rupees ; the annual surplus being applicable to the 
discharge of the state incumbrances. In 1812, the whole of the debt due to the 
British government, originally amounting to 2,284,511, had been liquidated, and 
the debt due to private bankers reduced to 2,881,981 rupees, and the discharge 
of the whole was expected to be completed by 1817 ; but this was retarded by a 
fomine which occurred in 1813, during which the Guicowar government saved 
multitudes from starving, by employing them on the roads and in the im{m>ve- 
ment of the capital, which contributed greatly to its salubrity. On the 24th 
November, 1816, the Guicowar’s debts stood as follows : 

Due under the guarantee of tiie British government . 8,5^,101 rupees.. 


Odier debts 855,552 

9,419,653 

Deduct remissions obtained 3,921,963 





702 THE PROVINCE [baroda. 

Dakjee Dadajee* the native agent of the British resident, prevailed on the cre« 
ditors to accept the above sum in full discharge of all their claims, and it was 
raised by a new loan, 3 per cent, lower than the Baroda government had been 
accustomed .to pay. In some cases, owing to the exorbitant rate of interest 
formerly exacted, the principal of the debt has been paid three times over. 

Anund Row Guicowar died in 1813. The great failing of this prince was 
avarice, or rather a blind rage for hoarding, which absorbed every other passion 
except a strong craving for intoxicating drugs. He was succeeded by Futteh 
Singh Guicowar, who, in 1814, deputed Gungadhur Shastry on a mission to 
Poona for the purpose of negotiating a settlement of the Peshwa’s claims on the 
Baroda state ; but the Peshwa objectedcto receive the Shastry under the charac- 
ter of Dewan, asserting that the Guicowar, as his feudatory, had no right to 
ap^int a Dewan without his permission. The British government, hov^ever, 
maintained that the Peshwa was precluded from any interference with the Gui- 
cowar state, by the obligations of the British guarantee, pledged to secure the 
legitimate succession to the Baroda throne, wholly independent of the Poona 
administratiou. To adjust the pecuniary claims of the Peshwa, the Shastry was 
authorized to offer 20 lacks of rupees, but this overture was rejected. A subse- 
quent offer of 50 lacks of rupees in three years, provided the Pesh'iva granted a 
five years lease of the farm of Ahmedabad, was also refused ; the Peshwa con- 
sideling it discreditable to have his territories managed by another prince, and 
his objections appearing insurmountable, the necessary orders were issued for 
the surrender of the Peshwa's share of Ahmedabad and its dependent territories, 
which took place the 23d October, 1814. 

Subsequent to this, the usual chaos of intrigues took place among the native 
agents, not one of whom had the slightest power or authority to arrange a sinjjie 
point ; but it had the effect of making the Peshwa adopt so preposterous a luxe 
of policy, that (jie resident at his court Was compelled to inform him, that the 
British government declined all interference in the adjustment of his claims on 
the Guicowar, until his highness explicitly relinquished all pretensions to inter- 
meddle with tib:e domestic affairs of that state, which, if he ever possessed, were 
totally abrogated by the treaty of Bassein. These discussions were proceding 
with the usual Maharatta procrastinidion, when they were prematurely termi- 
nated by the death of the unf^unate ambassador Gungadhur l^^try, wlm was 
assinaled at Punderpoor on the I9th July, 1816. This person had fonneriy been 
the native agent cff the Bombay presidency at the court of Baroda, sand in the 
month of May, 18ft3, at the particular request of Futtdi Su^ the reigning 
Goioowar, was nononated prime minister, in which capacity he had aeqiutted. 



OF GUJERAT. 


BAftOBA.] 


703 


Hie resident at Poona, on being informed of this atrocious act, addressed a 
very strong representation to the Peshwa, calling on his highness to take such 
measures as might bring the murderers to justice. Subsequently he demanded 
the surrender cd* Trimbukjee Dainglia, the fiivourite minister of his highness, and 
also of Bhugwunt Row Guicowar and Govind Row Bundajee, subjects of the 
Baroda state, against whom suspicions attached. After a very serious and pro- 
tracted dicussion with the British resident, the Peshwa consented to give up his 
minister, who was accordingly removed to Tannah in October, 1815. where he 
was kept in close confinement under a guard of Europeans. 

In 1815, in consequence of the existing confusion, the Bombay government 
endeavoured to effect an alteration in tha mode of administering justice to the 
natives, within the Guicowar’s dominions, without introducing too great a change 
in the judicial system of the country. In the last century, when the Maharat- 
tas.had established their power in Gujerat, they endeavoured to restore order 
and tranquillity, but having no determined system, no institution was created 
where redress of grievances could be obtained, so that the injured parties had 
recourse to personal revenge. The anarchy arising from such a condition of 
afi^rs, existed in full perfection when the British government first interfered with 
the Guicowar, some improvement therefore appeared very desirable if it could 
be amicably effected without hurting' the prejudices of the natives. Punchaits, 
or arbitrators by a jury of five, first occurred ; but this mode of settling disputes, 
like many others, extremely beautiful in theory,, is evidently adapted for a more 
primitive, and less corrupted state of society than is extant in Gujerat, where 
the employments of the people are diversified, their habits industrious yet li- 
centious, and where rights had not previously been decided by any written law, 
but by the innum erable intricacies of local usages. In a community so con- 
Mitnted, judicial establishments with positive powers seemed necessary, as well 
to give effectual redress to grievances, as to collate the various usages, and by 
a eecord of decisions to establish a body of precedents, essential to the regular 
administration of laws springing from an infinite variety of local customs. 

In tiie opinion of the people, the excellence of Punchaits arises from their 
at liberty to resort to them, or not, as they think proper, and in reality, 
arbitration is seldom resorted, to in Gujerat, without the express intervention of 
the government Besides tihis, there is a wide difference between a puncbait and 
an jury. The latter act under the responsibility of an oath ; they have 

evidence sifted by able counsel, which is afterwards summed up by the judge, 
and they give their award before the pubUc. A respectable Hindoo would 
Ttimaftif degraded, if desired to swear, and no native government would 
tander aa oath. The punchaits sit by themselves, and solicit evidenoe at 



THE PROVINCE 


70-4 


[baeosa. 


their own option, and they publish none of the reasons on which they gprounded 
their award. The consequence has been, that discontent with their decision ha^ 
so generally prevailed as to warrant a doubt of the purity of their motives; and 
hence arises the necessity of a court of justice to , investigate charges of corruption 
brought against members of punchaits. 

After much deliberation, a new court, at the recommendation of Captain Car- 
nac, was established, which tribunal takes cognizance both of civil and criminal 
cases, an arrangement deemed eligible as tending to wididraw the sovereign 
from the direct administration of criminal justice. Indeed, Futteh Singh Gui- 
cowar was so averse to the infliction of death, that he suspended a^ capital 
punishments. On the establishment of the new court, it was thought \very de- 
sirable that it should be presided over by some member of the Guicowu family, 
but unfortunately none were found to possess the requisite talents, so\that it 
became necessary to make a selection from among individuals of a lower Station. 
An opposition to the institution was at first experienced, but this spirit gradually 
subsided when the justice of the decisions in some civil suits became public. 
The judges, however, soon became corrupt, and the reputation of the court, as 
a natural consequence, declined. This impurity is in part to be attributed to 
the inadequacy of their salaries, (which, to native civil officers, are absurdly too 
low all over India,) at the same time, it may be doubted whether any salary 
would entirely eradicate this inherent defect of the native character, while the 
sovereign himself openly practises the most undisguised peculation. 

The British detachment stationed here ought to amount to 3000 effective men, 
but they have rarely ever reached this number, which is of the less consequence, 
as the Guicowar’s own troops are in a very respectable state of efficiency, and 
during the campaign of 1809, in the Gujerat peninsula, much benefit was expe- 
rienced from their co-operation. It is certainly extremely desirable (were it 
practicable), that the British government should gradually detach itself from that 
intimate and internal interference in the details of the Guicowar’s affairs, which 
necessity had in the beginning rendered expedient. Biit, on the other hand, it 
is to be apprehended, that if the supervision of the British authority be with- 
drawn, and the controul transferred to the narrow and unenlightened manage- 
ment of a native rulet, the great work which has been so successfully accom- 
pUdted by the labour and perseverance of a senes of years, would be inevitably 
^troyed, and the country relapse to its pristine state of rapine and anarchy. 
Bad tte British government been actuated by views of aggrandizement, its line 
of pdiey would hiife been to disc<mtinue at the earliest pedod all interposition 
the vdiidi would again be involved in those difficulties and 

easbarraaamMta whl^ had origmally threatened its total djsadutknb and theaa 



»IK>ACH.] OF GUJERAT 705 

would again create occasion for British aid, and furiher cession of territory to 
iodemnily the &q>6nBe . — (Public MS. Documents, Walker, Camac, Marquis 
Wetledy, Sgc. ^.) 

Bahadvrpoob. — town in the Gujerat province, 62 miles E. by S. from 
Cambay. Lat. 22** IV N. long. 73” 46^ E. 

Broach (Bangoska .) — ^A district in the Gujerat province, situated principally 
between the 2l8t and 22d degrees of north latitude, and bounded on the west 
by the gulf of Cambay. By Abul Fazel, in 1682, it is described as follows : — 
*'Circar Behroatch, containing 14 mahals; measurement 349,771 begahs; re- 
venue 21,845,663 dams: seyurghal 141,820. This circar furnishes 990 cavalry, 
and 20.800 infantry.” , 

This is one of the best cultivated and populated tracts on the west coast of 
India, and was acquired finally by the Bombay presidency, at the treaty of peace 
concluded with Dowlet Row Sindia, in December 1803. As a particular favour, 
the Peshwa was then allowed to retain the pergunnahs of Ahmood, Jumbosier, 
and Dubboi, being old fiefa of his family, and even the town of Olpar, within 
seven miles of Surat. This intermixture of dominion is not uncommon in Hin- 
dostan, but was always more customary among the Maharattas than any other 
nation. The river Nerbudda separates the Broach from the Oclaseer and Hansoot 
pergunnahs. The two last lie contiguous to each other, and Oclaseer town is 
directly opposite to Broach, while Hansoot is further down the river to the west. 

h. small portion of country immediately adjacent to the city, is properly called 
the district of Broach. Three-fourths of this territory, containing 122 villages, 
are named Kanum lands, and possess a rich soil, preferable to the Barra land 
close to the sea. The annual government assessment upon Kanum lands in con- 
stant cultivation is 12 rupees per acre ; but after a year of fallow, it is double 
that rate. Land which is allowed to lie fallow, is named vassel, in contradis- 
tinction to that named bhoot, which is tilled every season. The crop on the first 
is double that on the last, and the rent in proportion. Near the town of Broach, 
a begah (one-third of an acre) of common vassel is assessed at eight rupees, and 
one of bhoot at four rupees. To raise this double produce, the spot must be 
improved by exposure, irrigation, and manures. 

Forty vills^ bordering on the sea coast compose the division of Amliseer 
and Packajin, and their soil and climate are considerably different from the r^ 
of the maritime tract. In this particular section, which is named Barra, culti- 
vation does not commence until August and September, and on this species of 
the government assessment may generally be averaged at three rupees per 
b^^ah, or one guinea per acre. The soil of the pergunnahs of Broach, Jumbosier, 
and the adjacent ones east of the gulf of Cambay, suits well with the cultivation 
vot. I. * 



706 THE PROVINCE [moach. 

of cotton, wliich is sown on followed spots along with lioe, the latUff being oi 
speedy growth, end reaped at the opening of the rainy season. In 1804, the Chras- 
sia lots of Ittnd in the Broach district exempted from the revenue assessments* 
amounted to 58,000 begahs. The most important alienations from government 
consist of lands called Waunta, which are for most the part in the possession of 
Grassias, who hold it by the tenure of general proscription from remote anti- 
quity ; but there are other lands held free, which have not the same claim to 
exemption. The estimated revenue of Broach for the year 1804-5 was 1,160,609 
rupees, exceeding ^e receipts of the preceding years 95,071 rupees; but so 


progressive had been its prosperity, that in 1813-14, the land revenue 

yielded , 1,350,5^ 

The sayer or variable imposts 169,199 

Customs 88,419 

\ 

Total rupees 1,608,172 

In 1812, the population of the Broach pergunnah consisted of — 

Hindoos 60,448 

Mahommedans 15,895 


76,343 
32,716 
29,969 
18,955 

Total 167,983 

In that year, the result of a tolerably accurate investigation of the town and 
pergunnah of Broach, gave 173 inhabitants to the square mile ; the proportion, 
however, of the revenue to the extent of surface and number of inhabitants 
seems unaccountably great. 

In the pergunnah of Broach, much greater order and tranquillity prevail than 
in the northern districts of Gujerat, nor is there any serious obstructions, in the 
manners and habits of the people, to the introduction of the British code of 
laws and permanent system of revenue. Owing also to the concentrated posi- 
tion of the Broach. Oclaseer, and Hansoot pergunnahs, it has hot been found 
difficult to preserve an efficient patrole on the borders, by means of a horse 
police, which in the extensivcT and intermingled districts of Kaira and Surat is 
not practicably, except vidlh w establishment of such magnitude, as would 
render the expense insupportable. The number of violent deaths and robberies 
have greatly decn^d since the district devolved to the British. In former 
times the delinquentSi^ing almost universally punished by the inffiction of finesi. 


Broach town 

Oclaseer pergunnah and town 
Hansoot ditto 



OF GUJERAT. 


8MACH.] 


707 


by M means proportioned either to the crime or to the amount of their pro- 
jwrty* the rieh could commit enormities with impunity ; at present the punish- 
mmts being personal, their apprehensions of the consequences are much greater. 
Formerly also, the custom of sending threatening letters, destroying or injuring 
crops on the ground, and burning stacks and houses prevailed (as it still does in 
the Midiaratta portions of Gujerat) to a disgraceful extent ; but these outrages 
are now but little heard of, the inhabitants being quiet, orderly, and industrious, 
and the land remarkably high priced. Within the Broach pergunnab, Bhatts 
are not known as securities. 

When sinking under the weight of years, or absorbed in spiritual contempla- 
tion, Hindoo penitents not unfrequently descend into a pit dug by themselves, 
or their disciples, and submit to be smothered alive. This is related of Kuveer, 
from whose toothpick, the natives assert, sprung the great tree on an island in 
the Reva, or Nerbudda, of which the following is a description : On an island 
formed by the Nerbudda, ten miles from Broach, stands the famous Banyan 
tree, supposed to be the largest and most extraordinary in existence. It is 
named Kuveer Bur, in honour of a famous saint, and was formerly much larger 
than at present ; for high floods have at different times carried away the banks 
of the island where it grows, and along with them such parts of the tree as had 
extended their roots so far. What still remains is about 2000 feet in circum- 
ference, measuring round the different stems ; but the hanging branches, the 
roots of which have not yet reached the ground, cover a much larger extent. 
The chief trunks of this tree amount to 350, all superior in size to the generality 
of English oaks and elms, and the smaller stems, forming strong supporters, are 
more than 3000. From each of these new branches, hanging roots are proceed- 
ing, which in time will form trunks and become the parents of a future progeny. 
This is the tree described by Milton, in Paradise Lost. The natives have a tra- 
dition, that it is 3000 years old, and assert that 7000 persons can repose under 
its shade. 

^ Being so convenien]tly situated, the Bombay presidency made many attempts 
to obtain this district, and had possession for a short time prior to 1782, but at 
that period, in order to procure the concurrence of Madhajee Sindia to the 
treaty of Salbey, Broach with its valuable territory, yielding a revenue of 
£200,000, was by a private and separate agreement ceded to him. Since the 
filial cession in 1803, its prosperity has been uninterrupted, although it has 
been greatly annoyed by irruptions from the Rajpeepla country, which sends 
fordh sudi gangs of armed Bheels, that they almost set at defiance an unarmed 
{M^aee. la &ct, in 1816, (be imd most ^ous duties of t^t depart- 

iiMMt wen non to goanl egal^t the eilbetB oif tinM goventnent of 

. A V O 



708 THE PROVINCE C*»oach. 

foreign terntories, than those of the Broach district itself. — (Vnmmni, 

Moore, Bdlasis, Lord VakfUia, ^c.) 

Bboach. — ^The capital of the preceding district, situated on an eminence <Mi 
the north bank of the Nerbudda, 25 miles the entrance of the river. Lat. 

' 21® 46' N. long. 73® 14' E It is said to derive its name from the Hindoo saint, 
or devotee, Bhrigu, and to be properly written Bhrigu Kdietra, orBhrigu Pure, 
the town or place of Bhrigu. It is thought to have been the Barygaza of the 
ancients, and when it surrendered to the Emperor Acber, in 1572, still continued 
a place of great trade. In 1780, it was about two miles and a half in 
ference, and fortified in the oriental manner with high walls, 
musquetry, and fiaidced with towers ; the whole, combined with its 
advantages, forming an Asiatic fortress of considmable strength. 

The houses at Broach are built like those at Surat and Cambay, 
streets generally are narrow and dirty. In the town and vicinity are 
lapidated mosques and mausoleums. Being situated in a fertile province, it is 
well supplied with provisions and game ; and the Nerbudda, which washes its 
southern wall, abounds with carp and other fish. This town has always been a 
place of considerable trade, and still annually exports large quantities of raw 
and manufactured cotton to Surat and Bombay ; but the Broach muslins are 
inferior to those of Bengal, nor do their coloxued chintzes equal those of the 
Coromandel coast, although the water of the Nerbudda is said to possess a 
peculiar property in bleaching clothes to a pure white. Besides cotton, the 
principal exports are wheat, joaree, rice, and other grains, nuts, oil seeds, and 
dyeing shrubs and plants. At Broach, the hire of an able-bodied man for a whole 
day is seven-pice, or four-pence sterling ; a woman five-pice ; boys and girls firom 
a halfpenny to two-pence ; the whole of which rates are almost double those 
of Bengal, in tlie manu&cturing districts. The price of food for common occa- 
sions is firom one to twa farthings per pound ; and on festivals they can afford 
a relish of milk or fish. 

At the period of the great fomine in 1791, th^ number of houses in the dis- 
trict immediately attached to the town of Broach was 14,835, and the inhabit- 
ants 80,922 ; after the fomine, it was found that 2351 of the foimor Jhad been 
abandoned, and that 25,295 of the latter had died. In 1804, the whole number 
of residents in Broach fort and the environs was reported to be 22,468 souls; in 
1812, the population was found by actual enumeration to be as fidlows 


IBtindoos . 19,836 

Mahommedans . . 9,8M 

Ptttsees ; . . . 3.992 






J01CBO81EB.] OF GUJERAT. 709 

In 1807, there were 25 nets, or societies, in Broach, of the Banyan caste, 
comprehending 5261 individuals of both sexes. At this place there is a pinjra- 
pole, or hospital for animals, supported by donations from the Hindoo inhabit'* 
ants. Every marric^ and mercantile transaction is taxed for the pinjrapole, 
by which above £100o is raised annually, a great portion of which is absorbed 
into tiie coffers of the managers. The only useful animals it at present contains 
are milch cows, which yield the expense of their keeping ; among the useless, 
a few wild bulls, and some monkies may be named. 

By the treaty concluded with the Peshwa and the combined Maharatta 
powers, in June, 1782, the city and pergunnah of Broach were ceded to the 
East India Company. In July, 1782, they were made over to Madhajee Sindia, 
ostensibly, as a recompense for his humane treatment of the British prisonera 
and hostages taken at Wurgaum ; but in reality for his assistance in bringing 
about the pacification, which at that time, on account of Hyder’s invasion of the 
Carnatic, was urgently wanted. In 1772, Broach was besieged by an army 
from Bombay, commanded by General Wedderbume, brother to Lord Lough- 
borough, who was killed under the walls ; and a few days after his death it was 
captured by storm, although then a place of very considerable strength. On 
the death of Madhajee Sindia, into whose possession it had come as above de- 
scribed, it devolved to his successor, Dowlet Row Sindia, from whom it was. 
taken, on the 29th of August, 1803, by an army under Colonel Woodington, 
and has remained with the British government eve since. 

Travelling distance from Bombay, 221 ; from Oojein, 266 ; and from Poona, 
287 miles.— ('Dnowmond, WUford, Moore, Renmll, Bmer, Ssc. Sgc,) 

Rottunpooe.— A town in the Gujerat province, 14 miles E. from Broach. 
Ut 21* 44' N. long. 73" 26' E. 

Dxijbaera.— A town in the Gujerat province, 24 miles W. from Broaph. 
Ut.21"46'N. long. 72" 60' E. 

JoMBOSiEE (Jambhusira).—k town and pergunnah in the province of Guje- 
rat, situated on the river Jumbosier, 26 miles N. N. W. from Broach. Lat. 
22" 6' N. long. 73" 3' E. The pergunnah of Jumbosier consists mostly of open 
cultivated plains, witii trees only near the villages. The fields are enclosed and 
the country adorned with plantations of mangoe, tamarind, and banyan trees. 
The soil is li^t and fertile, and well adapted for the raising of cotton and all 
Indian jjnans. The western plains are of a rich black eardh, and yield abundant 
crops of Wheat and cotton. In 1780 , the town of JFumbosier was two nules in 
circumference, and surrounded byanrad waU. Some of the Hindoo houses 

weroiaige, 1 »t the exterior destitute of degsace or wportim^ The intimor 



710 THE PROVINCE 

usually consists of dark low rooms, surrounding an opim area, vliich sometimes 
contains a garden and fountains. The stairs are always steep and narrow ; the 
roofs often flat; but frequently also covered with tiles. The inferior houses 
liave leither tiled roofs, or are thatched with jungle grass or the leaves of the 
palmyra. Like most large towns in Gujerat, Jumbosier is situated near an ex- 
* tensive lake, the banks of which are ornamented with Hindoo temples, over- 
shadowed by mangoe and banyan trees, and the surface of the water almost 
concealed by the leaves and flowers of the lotus. A considerable trade is carried 
on from hence with Bombay; the exports consisting of cotton, grain, oil. and 
piece goods. The tide here rises from five to six fathoms. 

The Jumbosier pergunnah has long been subject to the payment of a| choute, 
or nominal fourth of the revenues, to the possessors of Broach, and which is still 
paid by the functionanes of the Peshwa to the revenue officers of that mstrict. 
in die time of the Nabobs of Broach, it was collected at the fbllowing\ rates: 
Jumbosier paid from 29,000 to 35,000 rupees. ' 

Ahmood from . . 15,000 to 25,000. 

During the British possession of Broach prior to 1782, the contributions on this 
accoimt were from Jumbosier 31,000, and from Ahmood 16,000 ; and thus they 
remained from 1782, when Broach and its dependencies were ceded to Madha- 
jee Sindia, who fixed with the Peshwa the choutes at 12,000 rupees from Jum- 
bosier, and 6600 from Ahmood. On the re-conquest of Broach in 1808 by 
tile British, the chout again reverted to them, and was paid in the Broach 
currency until 1814, when an attempt was made by the Peshwa's officers 
to substitute the Jumbosier rupee, a base coin of inferior value, which was 
immediately rejected by the Bombay presidency. The sum fixed for the 
choute is greatly inferior to what a real choute, or fourth, would be, if strictly 
exacted. It consequently appeared reasonable, that a sum so fixed should 
undergo no further diminution. Qangadhara, a celebrated Hindoo mathema- 
tician, was a native of this town.— (Pu^ MS. DocumenU, Forktt Cokbrooke^ 
S$c. S^c.) ' 

Ahmood (Amod).—A. town and pergunnah in the province Gqjerat, 20 
miles N. by W, from Broach. Lat. 22* 3' N. long. 73® 6^ E. The soil of Uiis 
small subdivbion is generally a rich black earth, suimble for cotton, lioe, wheat, 
and a great variety of Indian grains. The cotton produced is reckoned the 
best in Uie province. This district and Jumbosier, although subject to the 
Peshwa, pay a choute to thS^possessois of Broacffi ; but the sum is very small, 
compared with a fourth shme of the revenue.— ^c. 4^. ^.) x- - 
CcLASEsa.— This town stands about five rniitt due souto from Broadh, ttuai: 



omiu] OF GUJMIAT. 711 


which it is sq^aratild by the Nerbudda river. 

Lat. 21° 41' N. long. 73° 13' E. 

In 1612, tite result of actual investigation proved this town to contain 

Hindoos 

. . . 6,565 

Mahommedans . . . 

. . . 1,998 

Parsees 

. . . 348 

The peigunnah: — ^Hindoos 

. . . 16,512 

Mahommedans . . . 

. . . 4,546 


Total 29,969 

Hansoot (Hamavati ). — ^This town is situated about 14 miles S. W. from 

Broadi. Lat. 21° 39' N. long. 73° 3' E*. In 
ascertained to be : — 

1812, its total population was 

Hindoos ..... 

. . . 2,517 

Mahommedans . . . 

. . . 1,091 

Parsees 

... 131 


3,739 

In the pergunnah— Hindoos 

. . 13,938 

Mahommedans . . . , 

, . . 915 

Parsees 

. . . 363 


Total 18,955 


Olpar (Ubipara). — X town in the Maharatta territories in the province of 
Gujerat, seven miles N. from Surat. Lat. 21° 21' N. long. 73^ 3' £. By the 
treaty concluded with ihe Peshwa, on the 16 th December, 1803, supplemen^tal 
to that of Bassein, the pergunnah of Olpar, yielding a revenue of 316,000 
rupees, was as a particular favour restored to the Peshwa ; but as, on account of 
its proximity to the city of Surat, it was of great value to the British govern- 
ment, it was agreed that it should be so managed and governed by the Maharatta 
authorities, as to conduce to the convenience of that city, and to the promotion 
nf an amicable commercial intercourse ; the sovereignty of the river Tuptee to 
remain with the British government. 

Subsequent to the above date, the Peshwa bestowed this valuable tract in 
jag hiy fi, on one of his principal functionaries, designated by the title of the 
Yittchorr Cur, whose hostility, in 1817, being particularly conspicuous and 
^[^rse^rmg, it was taken possession of by a Bombay detachment. (Treaties, 
SiNsroRE (or Ztmore .) — ^This town stands on the steep banks of the Nerbud- 
da, having a flight of 100 stone steps from the houses to the water-side. Lat. 



712 THE PROVINCE [RAJtBftA, 

21** 56' N. long. 73*^ 35' E. 26 miles E. N. E. from Broach. The Hmdoo tottples, 
at Zinnore, al^ough less splendid than those at Chandodet and now in a state 
of great decay, are esteemed peculiarly sacred, and the appearance of the 
whole indicates a prior state of prosperity, which has passed away. In 1780, 
it contained about 10,000 inhabitants, mostly weavers of coarse cotton cloths 
, for the Persian and Arabian markets. It was then a large open stra^ling place, 
without any other fortification than the ravines that surrounded it. The Z^ore 
pergunnah at that date contained 50 inhabited villages, and product abun^t 
crops of cotton, the cultivation, gathering, spinning and weaving of which 
employed a great proportion of the inhabitants. — (Forbes, S^.) 

Ghandode. — ^Atowu and pergunnah, intersected by ravines and water>(^urses, 
in the province of Gujerat, situated on the north bank of the Nerbudda,\ about 
35 miles E. N. £. from Broach. Lat. 22° 1' N. long. 20° 40' E. Few pities in 
Gujerat, in the opinion of tbe Hindoos, equal Ghandode in sanctity, \ two* 
tliirds of the inhabitants being Brahmins and devotees of various descriptions. 
At particular festivals it is resorted to by pilgrims, who here perform their 
religious ceremonies and purify themselves by bathing in the sacred stream of 
the Nerbudda. The principal temple of Ghandode, is finished in a style much 
superior to the generality of Hindoo edifices, the central spire bemg light and 
in good proportion, and the interior of the dome, which is 40 feet in diameter, 
painted by artists from Ahmedabad. Besides this, there are many other tem- 
ples, the whole abounding with exterior sculpture, but very inferior to that of 
Elephanta and Garli. — ( Forbes, ^r.) 

Nauxoode.— A district in the province of Gujerat, situated between the 
Nerbudda and Tuptee rivers, and bounded on the west by Broach. Much the 
greater portion of this district is tributary to Maharatta chiefs; but the town and 
pergunnah of Naundode, which stands in latitude 21° 55' N. long, 73° 43' E. 
32- mites £. by N. from Surat, is comprehended within the jurisdiction of the 
Broach magistrate. The other towns of note are Rajpepla and Dhergong. 

Waujpoor. — ^A town in the Gujerat province, 45 miles E. by N. from Surat. 
Ut. 21° 24' N. long. 73° 47' E. 

Rajpepla. — ^A town and district in the province of Gujerat, situated about 
34 miles E. from Broach, lat. 21° 46' N. long. 73° 45' £. Ibis territory has 
been estimated at 100 miles in length, by nearlv as great a breadth, and con- 
tains extensive tracts of fertile land, which, not long ago, supported 500 towns 
and villages ; but such had b^ the distracted state of the country from 1803, 
that in 1015, only 15 villages retiiaihed, and the vast wastes of Rajpefda served 
as a secure asylum for every spe<!!ies of marauder, and a depdt for ttmir booty, 
l^e^s.their internal ]fevenues, the chiefs of this miserable pnncipalityhave hmg 



EAjpwjjL.J OP GOJEBAT. 7^3 

asserted enormous Grassia clauns on the British territories, the origin of which 
have never been clearly ascertained. They appear, however, to have been first 
permitted by the Moguls, and subsequently by the Maharatta states, although 
the Rajpepla chief is a tributary to the latter ; such is the complicated nature of 
Indian finance. With respect to the British dominions, he levies Torn gras from 
16 villages in the Hansoot pergunnah, and also from some in that of Broach. If 
the maimer in which these payments were originally extorted be left out of the 
question, it does not appear that they now operate oppressively on the inhabi* 
tants, because they are allowed deductions in consequence from the taxable 
resources of the villages, and considered accordingly in the government assess- 
ments, and none of these villages pay the slightest contribution of the nature of 
Tora gras to the British government. Although really understood as such, these 
payments can hardly be considered as the “ price of protection.” The “ price 
of forbearance” would probably be a more correct designation of an income, 
the largest portion of which appears to have been obtained by arbitrary impo- 
sition, and acquiesced in for fear of outrage. 

The state of Rajpepla is tributary to the Guicowar, and in 1815 was nominally 
governed by a minor Raja, ten years of age, named Pertaub Singh. On the 
death of the prior Raja in 1810, Nursingh, the elder brother of the deceased, 
but whose right of primogeniture had been set aside in consequence of blindness, 
ngain agitated his claim, and thereby threw the country into the utmost confu- 
sion, which was much aggravated by the ruinous system pursued by the Baroda 
government. Finding that owing to the subsisting anarchy, the tribute amount- 
ing to 60,000 rupees was greatly in arrear, they resolved on farming the country 
to a Baroda banker, who shewed himself much more alert in extorting the 
revenue, than in maintaining the ancient military and police establishments. 
The consequence was that, in the absence of all coercion, Jeewa Busawa, a 
powerful Bheel, plundered the Company’s village of Singhpoor, in the Oclaseer 
pe^nnah, of property estimated at 21,068 rupees, the Rajpepla territories 
being so impoverished that they contained no booty worth taking. This depre- 
dator was an inhabitant of Sagbaree, under the Rajpepla government, and 
during rixe disturbances had attained the elevation of Busawa, or head Bheel, 
having been formerly a distingfuished freebooter in Khandesh. His followers, the 
Arabs and Sindeans, were adventurers, parties of whom are to be found in the 
service of most petty native chiefs, whom they usually at last retam in subjec- 
tum; the Bheels were bow and arrow men, the supposed aborigines of the 

provhtce. 

Bi^pepU being tributary to Baroda, isppUcation was made to the Guicowar, 

▼ot. 1. 



714 THE PROVINCE Cn»*iiooi>»a. 

and in the mean time the revenue derived to Rajpepla from certain vUltm^ 
within the British boundaries, under the denomination of Tora gras, or ready 
money payments, amounting to about 14,000 rupees, was attached. The Chii* 
cowar immediately detached a force, which acted with considerable spirit, and 
soon drove the Bheel Jeewa to the last extremity. During these operations, 
proceedings were discovered which furnished reason to suspect, that these 
excesses had been connived at, if not encouraged, by the Peshwa’s local officers 
in Khandesh, and a remonstrance was in consequence made at Poona. AU these 
circumstances combined had so thinned the inhabitants, that in the beginning of 
1814, nearly all the agricultural portion of the Rajpepla population had deserted 
the country, many families taking refuge in the Oclaseer pergunnah, others 
retiring across the Nerbudda, while a considerable number found shelteil in an 
island formed by that river, and belonging to Broach. Between the Ist of 
February and the middle of April that year, 39 Rajpepla villages were wholly, or 
in part, burned down, and above 5000 houses reduced to ashes. The wild Bheels, 
taking advantage of the subversion of all authority, roamed about in every 
direction, plundering indiscriminately friend and foe ; for in the general confusion 
neutrality afforded no protection, every leader of a few soldiers assuming the 
highest functions of sovereignty. 

Meeting with little resistance from such discordant interests, the Guicowar’s 
forces prosecuted their operations, and Rajpepla in 1815 peaceably surrendered ; 
and the contending factions subscribed an engagement, to submit their claims to 
the decision of a punchait, or native jury of five. During the period allowed for 
determining their respective rights, both parties consented to suspend all exer- 
cise of authority, and to permit the Guicowar’s government to administer the 
affiurs of Rajpepla, until full indemnification had been afforded for the expenses 
incurred in effecting the pacification . — ( Public MS. Documents, Bellasis, ^ther- 
Umi, Rmer, Carmc, ^x.) 

Neemoodba. — A village in the Rajpepla district, three miles to the east of 
which lie the celebrated, cornelian mines. The country in the immediate vicinity 
of the mines is but little cultivated, and on account of the jungles, and their 
inhabitants the tigers, no human habitations are found nearer than Ruttunpoor, 
which is seven miles off. The miners have huts at this place, whmre the stones 
are burned. 

The cornelian mines are situated in the wildest part of the jungle, and con^ 
sist of numerous shafts worked down perpendicularly, about four feet wide ; ^ 
deepest about 60 feet. Spnae* extend at the bottom in a horizontal diiectkmji 
but usually not far, the nature of these pits being such as to prevent th^ belag 



•W8AT.3 OF GUJERAT. 715 

worki^ fc second year, on account of the heavy rains causing the banks to fell in, 
•0 tl»t new ones must be opened at the conclusion of every rainy season. 
TTie soil is gravelly, consisting chiefly of quartz sand, reddened witli iron, and a 
little clay. The nodules weigh from a few ounces to two or even three pounds, 
and lie close to each other, but for the most part distinct, not being in strata, but 
scattered through the masses and in the greatest abundance. On the spot the 
cornelians are mostly of a blackish olive colour, like common dark flints ; others 
somewhat lighter, and others still lighter with a slight milky tinge ; but it is 
quite uncertain what appearance they will assume after they have undergone the 
process of burning. From Neemoodra they are carried by the merchants to 
Cambay, where they are cut, polished, and formed into the beautiful ornaments 
for which that city is so justly celebrated. — ( Copland, Sgc. ^r.) 

Sub AT (Surashtra). — A district in the province of Gujerat, situated at the 
south'Westem extremity, between the 20th and 22d degrees of north latitude, 
and by Abul Fazel, in 1582, described as follows : “ Circar Sooret, containing 31 
mahals; measurement 1,312,315 begahs; revenue 19,035,177 dams; seyurghal 
182,270 dams. This circar furnishes 2000 cavalry, and 5500 infantry. Ranier, 
which is situated on the opposite side of Tuptee, is a port dependent on Surat. 
The followers of Zerdusht (Zoroaster), when they fled from Persia, settled at 
Surat, where they practise the doctrines inculcated by the Zend, and its com> 
mentary the Pazend. From the liberality of his majesty’s (Acber) disposition, 
every sect exercises its particular mode of worship, without suffering the least 
molestation. Through the negligence of the soubahdars and their officers, several 
parts of this circar are possessed by Europeans, among which number are 
Damaun, Surjaun, Tarapoor, and Bassein, all cities and emporiums.” 

The modern or British district of Surat, consists of tracts of country acquired 
ai different periods from the native powers, principally the Peshwa and Gui- 
cowar, and still so intermixed with the territories of these princes, that it is 
impossible to form an accurate estimate of their extent. The head quarters of 
the judge and magistrate and judicial establishment are in the city of Surat, 
which will be described separately. All lands subordinate to this coUectorship, 
excepting the alienations by grants or otherwise, are the undoubted property of 
government. The soil is considered vested in the ryot or cultivator, so long as 
he tilk it and pays the rent, but in the event of his failure, the ground reverts to 
government. The rate of assessment in each village varies according to the 
value of the produce, and the result of tiie season, fevourable or the reverse. 
One>third of the produce belongs to government ; another third is supposed to 
deffuy die expense of cultivation, with the village charges ; the remaining third is 

4t2 



THE PROVINCE 


716 


[lUBAT. 


the profit of the cultiyators. Previous to the grain being cut and renunred, the 
quantity of land in cultivation is measured, and the amount of the assessment 
ascertained, under the superintendance of the collector. Such viHages as are 
least under the controul of the native revenue officers are always found in ffie 
most flourishing condition. 

* In 1811, the actual net increase of the revenues under the Surat collectorship 
was 274,394 rupees more tl^ the sum at which they were valued when ceded 
by the Peshwa and Guicowar. In 1812 the estimated revenues were*-^ 


Land revenue 918,359 

Sayer or variable imposts 463,632 

Mint , 12,283 

Customs 180,139 


Rupees 1,563,813 


Abstract of the gross revenue of &tr<a in 1813-14. 


Land . 
Sayer . 
Mint . 
Customs 


981,448 

435,883 

14,768 

165,546 


Rupees 1,597,648' 

This great increase of the land revenue did not originate from any augmentation 
of impost on the cultivator, but firom a large portion of waste land having been 
brought into cultivation in the pergunnahs of Chickly and Chowrassy, and from 
an increase of revenue in the Peshwa’s cessions. A small decrease took place, 
from the suppression of that objectionable source of revenue, heretofore derived 
from licensing gaming stalls in the city of Surat. In the above year the whole 
of the Surat revenues were realized with the exception of 418 rupees, and the 
total debits against them, including charges of collection, the Nabob's stipend, 
See. were 336,261 rupees. 

With respect to the internal police, the Surat district is so intersected by the 
territories of other states, and petty js^hiredars, that the jurisdiction of the 
magistmte is much interrupted, and his exertions for the suppression of crimes 
impeded; so many preparatory ceremonies and negotiations must be gone through, 
before a thief can be arrested, or stolen property recovered, that both arc re- 
moved before an efiectual search can commence. A class of gang robbers who 
infest this disbict, are the arflied rabble enlisted by the Qrassias having claims 
on the revenues of certaih lands. These ruffiuui are generaUy headed by smne 



•«»at.3 of GUJEKAT. 717 

Aeiperate Jemadar, renowned for his cruelties and extortions, who enters the 
British territory under the pretence of collecting his master's dues, at the same 
time extorting double the sum for himself and followers. When the Patells, or 
head villagers, attempt to resist these exactions, their villages are plunder^ and 
children carried into captivity, be held to ransom on some future opportunity. 
In former years they usually introduced these demands by setting fire to a stack, 
or murdering one of the villagers, to shew they were in earnest.; but of late 
these criminal acts have seldom been aggravated by arson or murder. No 
instance of traga (immolation or sacrifice of the Bhatts) had occurred since the 
the British obtained possession of the tracts composing this jurisdiction up to 
the year 1816, a period of 15 years. 

Marine and river piracy is carried bn to a great extent in the Surat jurisdic- 
tion, owing to the easy communication held by the vessels at the mouth of the 
Tuptee, with the natives dwelling on the opposite bank, which is not subject to 
the British empire. There are two favourite anchorages near the mouth of the 
Tuptee, called Toddy Bank, and Swally Hole, the former being so named from 
the quanti^ of toddy procured on the spot from the neighbouring villages ; for 
which article the native captains of crews make no scruple of bartering their 
owner’s cotton and other goods ; and through the same medium and mode of 
payment, they also procure tobacco, hot peppers, and vegetables. Swally 
Hole has also its conveniences for this nefarious traffic, and also for robbing the 
wrecks of boats and vessels, which are frequently run on shore intentionally in 
its neighbourhood, and all representations to the Maharatta functionaries, who 
participate in the plunder, fruitless. This river plunder, however, is moderate 
when compared with the depredatipns committed in the roads, and on the 
coast between Surat and Damaun, where, on the slightest plea of bad weather 
or distress, whole bales of cotton and other goods are thrown overboard near 
creeks and villages, where the native captains and crews have relations or 
partners ready to pick them up. 

In consequence of this practice, although hardly any cotton is grown to the 
south of Surat, every village between that city and Bulsaur is commonly full of 
cotton, which they facetiously term cotton of the sea. Frequently by a con- 
certed plan, a party come from the shore and capture and plunder the vessel 
entirely; the booty being distributed in regular shares among the different 
villages on the sea coast, among which that of Domus is the most notorious. 
The villages belong principally to the Nabob Ibrahim Khan, alias Bulloo 
Meah of Sacheen, whose income would be greatly deteriorated were these pro- 
CMdings suppressed. During the months of cultivation the inhabitants of this 



THE PROVINCE 


7ia 


[sURAT. 


Nabob’s villages have sufficient employment, but after the crops are gatheied 
they devote their unoccupied time to another species of harvest, that of piracy 
and plunder, from the produce of which a considerable proportion of their rent 
is liquidated ; those most eligibly situated for the latter vocation, paying the 
largest revenue. The country throughout the district is highly cultivated, and 
in the vicinity of the city the fields arO generally enclosed, producing wheat, 
rice, joaree, bajeree, ,and other Indian grains, diversified by crops of cotton, 
hemp, tobacco, colouring plants, and an infinite variety of vegetables and oil 
reeds. — ( Bourchier, Prendergast, Public MS. Docummts, Forbes, Sgc.) 

Surat. — K large and populous city, situated on the south bank of the 
Tuptee, and the modern capital of the Gujerat province. Lat. 21® 11' N. jiong. 
73® T E. The outer walls of this city arc seven miles in circumference, having 
12 gates, with irregular towers between each. The inner town is surrounded 
by a similar wall, and unequal number of gates ; the whole in a ruinous ison> 
dition. The streets are dirty, narrow, and irregular ; the houses generally lofty, 
and crowded with inhabitants. Between the outer and inner walls are malny 
streets and houses, but as in most eastern cities much of that space is oc- 
cupied by villas, gardens, and cultivated fields, producing fruit, grain, and 
vegetables. The public buildings here are few and mean, and the Nabob’s 
palace contemptible. The mosques and minarets are small, and destitute of 
taste or elegance, the Hindoo edifices equally insignificant, and most of the 
caravanserais in ruin. 

The most remarkable institution in Surat, is the Banyan hospital, of which 
we have no description more recent than 1780. It then consisted of a large 
piece of ground enclosed by high walls, and subdivided into several courts or 
wards for the accommodation of animals. In sickness they were attended with 
the greatest care, and here found a peaceful asylum for the infirmities of old age. 
When an animal broke a limb, or was otherwise disabled, his owner brought 
him to this hospital, where he was received without regard to the caste oi 
nation of his master. In 1772, this hospital contained horses, mules, oxen, 
sheep, goats, monkies, poultry, pigeons, and a variety of birds ; also an aged 
tortoise which was known to have been there 75 years. Themost extraordinary 
ward was that appropriated for rats, mice, bugs, and other noxious vermin, for 
whom suitable food was provided. 

Surat has long been a city of great commercial intercourse, although large 
ships cannot aspend the river, being obUged to cast anchor about 20 miles below 
tiie town. Nd|^r can the haibour on the whole be reckoned commodious, 
althouf^ <nie ol the beston this coast during the prevaloEice of the N. £. and 



*u»AT.] OF GUJEKAT. 719 

N.W. winds. With winds from the south and due west the anchorage is 
dangerous. The following tables of exports and imports for the years 1802 
and 1816, will furnish a general idea of the nature, and comparative prosperity, 
of its commerce at two distinct periods since it became subject to the British 
empure. The weights at Surat are 
40 seers make 1 maund=s 1 quarter, 9 lbs. 

20 maunds make 1 candy = 6 cwt. 2 quarters, 21 lbs. = 749 lbs. The weights, 
however, vary with different articles; and cotton, the grand staple commodity, is 
sold by the Surat candy of 21 maunds (about 786 lbs.) 

COMMERCE OF I^URAT FOR 1802-3. 



IMPORTS TO SURAT. 


Veneli. Merchandiie. iTreuureJ Totil, 


EXPORTS FROM SURAT. 




Lxtioii .... 
AMBIttCA .... 

BiiroAt • • « . 

Maiabab aho Camara . 
Bombay « • . • « 

VxLLAOBi MIAR SoRAT 


gROACR . 

PaMBAT • 
jjUIIBOAlBR 
BROWtrVOOOR 


Ammbdaiiao amp XNTBRIOR 
Caihm^bb and Pvmjab . 
Dbccan . . • « 

Jbyboor , • . . 

KlIAMDBin . • 


AARfAM CVLf 
PBRBtAN Qvir$ 


BMAMO AMD EASTWARD 
BATATfA • A • 

BaUBIII AMD VtLtAOBS 
tfTitU AMD SlMDI • 

UAM . 4 . • 


Mdraismdvr . 

UrR Df I^AMCD 

TOTAL. 



M 

#1 

»* 

133 

1*483 

M 

79S.rS8 

303S1 

1,068.370 

197,631 



404A35 

f* 

167,469 

86,081 

*1 

S* 

179,030 


743,089 

S4,43« 

30,818 

99,338 



185 

400 

164,461 

4*031 

5,884 

4*338,677 


Vesasis. 


No. Tons* Rupees. I Rupees. Rupees. 



600 

»» 

5,301 

*1 

866 

900 

** 

18,780 

1,881*969 

11,687 



1* 

» 

440 

65,488 

>* 

79.168 

ft 

6,797 

400 

63*861 




M 15S,0t7 

„ 66,437 


t57,.5l9 5*360,084 

































































720 THE PROVINCE {wM 

COMMERCE OF SURAT FOR 1816-16. 



IMPORTS TO SURAT. 

sxroRrs mni surat. 

1813-16. 

Vesaela. 

MercliBndiie. 

TreBaore, 

TotttU 

yeaaelt. 

MerelwttdiBe* 


Ba 

a 

No. 

Tons. 

Ropeca. 

Rnpeci. 


No. 

Tons* 

Rupees 

lUpM^ 

Bivm., 

BtaaiLs . . • 

3 


n 

301,690 

S01,690 

s 


686,843 

6300 

naiii 

Malabar AND Canara • 



hHS&S 

II 

6,199 

W 

.. 

10*552 

17*763 

26315 

Bombay .... 




570,609 

2,824,181 

II 

wBKi 

1*995,076 

524396 




■ 







' 


Broach .... 


mm 

80f,45S 

38,500 

840,955 

II 

|Hl 

453,889 

190,993 

644^875 

Cambay .... 



68.489 


68,489 

II 


51*910 

425 

152365 

Ji;MB081B1t 



196*683 

•1 

196,683 

II 


42,300 

16392 

1 58392 

Bhownvoovr . 

>1 


98,110 

99,559 

197,669 

II 

It 

309,905 

404,876 

Inv/ni 


t» 

•1 

1,165,737 

138,059 

1,303,796 

II 

II 

850,297 

612,686 

1,^183 

Peraiam Gulf 

14 

805 

ti.tir 

*9.450 

58,567 

10 

627 

999,406 

6300 

3^5,706 

Ababiah Gulf 

3 

483 

33,857 

1,03*,88.> 

1,066,142 

9 

1,342 

993,698 

M 

92^,698 












Basacih .... 

II 

II 

411,506 

II 

411,506 

If 

II 

25,759 

18,350 

KaES 

Mozambique . 

6 

663 

259,678 

65,789 

325,467 

6 

665 

177,096 

•1 

177,096 

Penano and castifaro . 

1 

300 

II 

67,495 

67,495 

II 

II 

i» 

II 

II 

CuTCll AND SlKDS . 

II 

II 

7,864 

II 

7,864 

** 

II 

2,990 

1,301 

4,990 












TOTAL . 

m 

3.520 

4,l66i523 

2,205,377 

6.371,900 

28 

3,784 

5,171,71^ 

987,495 

6,159314 


This city is one of the most ancient of Hindostan, being mentioned in the 
Ramayuna, a Hindoo poem of great antiquity. After the discovery of the pas- 
sage to the east by the Cape of Good Hope, it was much frequented by vessels 
belonging to all European nations, who exported from hence pearls, diamonds, 
ambergris, civet, musk, gold, silks, and cottons of every description, spices, 
fragrant woods, indigo, and saltpetre, and other objects of Indian traffic. From 
hence also great multitudes of pilgrims embarked for Arabia; on which account 
Surat was always considered by the Mahommedans of Hindostan as one of the 
gates of Mecca. In 1612, Captain Best received permission to settle an English 
^tory at Surat, where he left ten persons with a stock of £4000 to purchase 
goods. The Dutch did not visit Surat until 1617. The French carried on a 
^siderable, but losing trade with Surat, during the first years of the 18Ui cem- 
tury ; and having contracted debts to the natives deserted it altogether. Some 
time afterwards, in 1714, a company was formed at St. Maloes, which dispatched 
ships tothe East Indies, but thetfh were seized and sequastered at Surat, to liqui- 
date the debts the formmr company, with whidt the St. Maloes assodatkm 
Imd no concern. “ 

In lanuary, 1664, Malutatta army under Seva|ee m a d e a awld& ai^adc 
on this citv. when ^ gofamor shut himself up ia tha castle, and fiNt t a h ii tfil tMifti 




































smiAT.l oy GUJERAT. 721 

^ to tbe adjacent country. In tliis emei|;ency Sir George Osinden, the 
diie^ and the rest of the Company's servants, shut themselves up in the fectory 
with the Company’s property, valued at £80,000, and having fortified it as well 
as the shortness of toe time would allow, called in the ships’ crews to assist in 
toe defence. When attacked toey made so brave and vigorous a resistance, that 
they not only preserved the factory, but the greatest part of the town from 
destruction, for which, after toe retreat of the enemy, they received the thanks 
of toe Mogul commander. Surat was attacked and partially pillaged by the 
Maharattas in 1670, and afterwards in 1702. In April, 1707, it was again 
attacked by toese freebooters, but having no cannon, and few fire-arms, they 
were unable to make any progress. • 

Moyeu ud Deen, the ancestor of the present Nabob of Surat, was an adven- 
turer who in 1748 possessed himself of Surat castle. His successors were in 
1763, Cuttub ud Deen ; in 1702, Nizam ud Deen ; and in 1800, Nassir ud Deen; 
all invested by the East India Company. The existing system of internal govern- 
ment having been found inadequate to toe protection of toe persons and property 
of the inhabitants, on the 13 to of May, 1800, a treaty was concluded with 
Nassir ud Deen, the reigning Nabob, by which he agreed that the management 
of the city and district of Surat, and the administration of civil and criminal 
justice, should be exclusively vested in the British government. The latter en- 
gaged to pay to toe Nabob and his heirs one lack of rupees annually, and also a 
proportion (one-fifth) of the surplus annual revenue deducting all charges ; for 
satisfaction in Which respect, a vakeel on the part of the Nabob to have liberty 
to examine toe accounts. The residue of toe revenue to be at the disposal of 
the British government. By a subsequent treaty in 1803, toe Maharattas were 
compelled to abandon all their vexatious claims on the city, which has ever since 
remained under the Bombay presidency, and been governed by the British regu- 
lations modified by peculiar local customs and circumstances. 

Prior to this transfer the sunounding territory was much infested by predatory 
bands of armed thieves, who committed robberies close to the walli^, and some- 
times even in the streets of Surat. These violent outrages 'have been efiectually 
suppressed. Burglaries, however, are still frequent in Surat, but if its extent 
and population be cons^ered, and toe careless manner in which the natives de- 
posit, or rather expose their property, the number cannot be deemed surprbisg. 
The Mahy Kaunta Coolies are particulariy ingenious house-breakers, and they 
were formerly much encouraged by a custom prevalent during the native govern- 
ments, and practised by persons in toe higher ranks of life, who actually sent to 
toe banks of toe Mahy for a party of these atert miscreants, for the express pur- 
pose robbing the house of some neis^ibour, firiend, or relatum, in whito, 
yoi. t. ♦ * 



THE PROVINCE 


722 


[IVEAT. 


their intimacy with the fianily« they knew that money, ornaments, or costly goods 
were contained. On the arrival of this detachment of thieves near Surat, they 
were detained without, brought over the walls at night, and secreted in cellars 
until the occurrence of a favourable opportunity. When this anived they were 
furnished with the necessary implements, and set to perpetrate Ae act, after 
the accomplishment of which they receive a small share of the plunder as a re* 
ward for the trouble they had taken. 

The mag^trates of this city have had reason to apprehend, that many indi- 
viduals in it are destroyed by pou^on secretly administered, tie perpetrators 
being stimulated either by jealousy or reyenge ; in some cases they are relations 
impatient to inherit property. The facility with which all sorts of poisonous 
drugs may be procured, and the ease with which they may be given, encourages 
the preference of this sort of murder among a people who are too timiq to 
attempt more violent modes of assassination. The practice is consequently umre 
prevalent among the Hindoos, while the Mthommedans and Parsees more ^ 
quently resort to open outrage. There are no regdar coiners of base money at 
Surat, that article being imported ready made from Bhownuggur, where there 
is a mint established for the purpose. Assaults and woundings are not fte- 
quent, as all armed persons are stopped at the gates, s(nd obliged to deposit all 
offensive weapons with the gate-keeper. Drunkenness is very prevalent, owing 
to the cheapness of intoxicating liquors, and the facility with -which they may 
be had. 

In 1813, the town and distnct of Surat were greatly infested by emigrants 
from Cutch and Malwah, an idle and uncivilized race, by long habit addicted to 
thieving and the commission of every crime. It was “supposed also that these 
persons introduced the small pox of a virulent description, which carried off 
many of the inhabitants. The Parsees and higher classes of Hindoos objected 
to vaccination as injuring the purity of their caste ; the latter particularly object- 
ing to having their children innooulated with matter ihken from a Mahommedan 
or Parsee. In the same year many thousands were carried off by a pestilential 
disease of the febrile kind, but the reinaining population of Surat is still enor- 
mous, although its trade has unavoidably suffered from the proximity of Bom- 
bay. In 1796, one estimate raised the total population so high as 800,000 souls, 
while another reduced it to 600,000, which probably considerably exceeds the 
actual number. In 1807, this city contained 1200 Parsees of the Mobid, or 
sacerdotal class, and about 12,0D0 of the laity, or Behdeen Parsees. It is ratihei 
surprising that noapproxinmtiim has yet been made towards an accurate enume- 
ration of the inhabitants.. In 1816*, the Bombay presidmicy in theur diipatches 
to of daecUmidesctdie it aimore.than double tW of Bomimy* fmd 



8ACHEEH.} OF GUJERAT^ 723 

probably five times greater than that of the Broach jurisdiction, without stating 
wrhat these are. In 1815, the senior judge of circuit was disposed to attribute 
the un&TOurable state of morals at Surat, to the influence and authority of the 
heads of castes having been much reduced, and the respect formerly shewn by 
the lower orders to the higher having been nearly destroyed by the general 
operation of the British regulations. In consequence of this laxity, numberless 
petty immoralities, trifling vices and increasing drunkenness occurred, not only 
among the men, but more especially among the women, these irregularities not 
being cognizable by the British tribunals when unaccompanied by breaches of 
the peace ; yet these infractions of their own discipline lead ultimately to the 
perpetration of greater crimes. . 

Travelling distance from Bombay, 177 miles ; from Poona, 243 ; from Oojein, 
309 ; from Delhi, 756; and from Calcutta, by Nagpoor, 1238 miles. — (Baurchier, 
Prendergast, Parliamentary Reports, Bruce, Treaties, Morrison, Sonnerat, Anquetil, 
<§’c. Ssc. 8sc.) 

SwALLY (Sivalaya, the abode of Siva ). — ^This is the harbour of the Surat ship- 
ping, and is situated at the mouth of the river Tuptee, 20 miles W. from that 
city. Lat. 21“ 6' N. long. 72" 50' E. 

Domus. — A. town in the Gujerat province, 15 miles S. W. from the city of 
Surat. Lat. 21® 4' N. long. 72“ 53' E. 

Mandowee. — A town in the Gujerat province, 19 miles E. from Surat. 
Lat. 21" 15' N. long. 73“ 25' E. 

Bulsaur. — ^A large and populous sea-port on the high road to Bombay, 45 
miles S. by W. from Surat. Lat. 20“ 36' N. long. 73“ 5' E. A considerable 
trade is carried on from Bulsaur in grain, jaggree and timber. The manufac- 
tures consist mostly of coarse dooties, baftaes, and ginghams. The principal 
produce of the pergunnah is rice and sugar cane, yet, although the fields are in 
general well cultivated, there still remains a considerable proportion of waste 
and unoccupied land. — ( Morrison, Sgc.) 

Sacheen. — ^T he estate of Sacheen, otherwise Satn^um, situated in the 
Ghourasse pergunnah, was granted in perpetuity by the Peshwa in the year 1791 
to Siddee Abdul Kurreem Khan, commonly stiled Balloo Meah, in exchange for 
the forts of Gingera, Dunda Rajpoor, Cansan, and Mudgur, with their dependen- 
cies, situated in the Concan, which formed the hereditary principality of the 
Abyssinian family of the Siddees. The town of Sacheen stands in kt. 21“ 4' N. 
long. 73^ 5' E. and some parts of the estate reach within two miles of Surat. 
This territority is entirely independent both of the Poona government and the 
British, the civil and police authority being administered by tiie Nabob, or by 
persons delegated by him, who are, however, bound to abide by the ancient 

4s2 



724 THE PROVINCE [©AiiAuif. 

agileuitural and revenue system of die country. In settling ancimit usages die 
agency of heads of castes, and punchaits, or native juries, are us^^y em» 
ployed by him, and in fisKsal matters that of patells and other hereditary revenue 
officers. His income amounts when clear to about 75,000 rupees per aunu m , 
but is usually greatly involved. In 1816, a negotiation was undertaken by 
*the Bombay presidency, to induce him to allow, the British government to 
exercise police and criminal jurisdiction within his estate, but it failed of success. 
( Prendergastf Public MS. DoeumeiOSt ^c.) 

CumiODE. — A. toum and perguuimh in the province of Gujerat, which, in 1817, 
were valued at 65,000 rupees per annum, at which estimate they were received 
from the Guicowar in exchange for Beejapoor. Lat. 21° 12' N. long. 73° 25' E. 
18 miles from the city of Surat. \ 

Veesararee . — K town in the Gujerat province, 22 miles N. E. from Sprat. 
Lat. 21° 25' N. long. 73° 23' E. \ 

SooNOHUR . — A town in the Gujerat province. 30 miles £. from Surat, tnt. 
21° 10' N. long. 73° 37' E. 

Noapoora. — A town in the Gujerat province, 45 miles E. from Surat. Lat. 
21° 10' N. long. 73** 51' E. In 1818, this fortress surrendered to a detachment 
under Major Kenneth and was found so eligibly situated that it was made a depot 
of supply for the armies s^ing to the north of Bombay . — ( Public Journals, 
Attaveesee. — A large territory in the southern extremity of the Gujerat 
province, situated between the 20th and 2l8t degrees of north latitude, and 
bounded on the west by the sea and the district of Surat. It is intersected by 
many streams flowing from the eastern hills, but not by any river of megnitude. 
The principal towns are Damaun, Dhurrumpoor, and Baunsda. In 1802, Anund 
Row Guicowar, to defray the expenses incurred by the British government in the 
war against his rival Mulhar Row, mortgaged this district, which then yielded 
an annual revenue of six lacks and a half of rupees. 

Damaun.— A sea-port town of some note, situated in lat. 20° 25' N. long. 72° 
58' E. about 100 miles N. from Bombay. The Portugueze reduced this place so 
early as 1531, and it still remains in their possession. It makes a conspicuous 
figure from the sea, the churches and houses being in general wfrite; but the 
commerce is now much diminished. The anchorage is m eight ffithomi^ three 
miles off shore, but the river affords a secure harbour for nnaU vessels, and io 
tides, during the S. W. monsoon, has frxmr 18 to feet watm' over the 
bar. the building of shipt hga long been the principal source of profit here, 
the teak forests bring at no great distance. The builder in 1618 waa a Hindoo, 
who coastructed all lus riups after^the same model, whirii was too riiort for the 
breadth^ timreby t e nd eri n g tfian uneasy far ahead tea* On M other band it ii 



00*411.] OF GUIERAT. 735 

admitted that they wear well, carry a good cargo, and before the wind sail most 
farioosly. Since A. D. 1790, 30 ships, exceeding 400 tons burthen each, have been 
built here .— PubUc Journals, Makt, Bruce, ^c.) 

OosTAEE.— A small village in the province of Gujerat, belonging to the Gui- 
cuwar, situated 50 miles S. E. from Surat. At this place there is a hot well, 
which, like all other extraordinary phenomena of nature, is held sacred by the 
Hindoos, and resorted to by pilgrims of that religion, who are supplied by the 
officiating priest with the miraculous history of its original formation by Rama 
Chandra.— ^c.) 



THE PROVINCE OF MALWAH. 


(ifALAVA.) 


A LARGE province of Hindostan, situated principally between the 22d and 25th 
degrees of north latitude. To the north it is bounded by Ajmeer and Agra i on 
the south by Khandesh and Berar ; to the east it has Allahabad and Gundwana ; 
and on the west Ajmeer and Gujerat. In length it may be estimated at 220 mii|es, 
by 150 the average breadth. By Abul Fazel in 1582, this province is described 
as follows : — \ 

“ The soubah of Malwah is situated in the second climate. The length, 
from Currah to Banswarreh, comprises 245 coss ; and the breadth from Chandery 
to Nudderbar includes 230 coss. It is bounded on the east by Baundhoo; on the 
north by Narwar and the mountains ; on the south by Boglaneh (Baglana) ; and 
on the west by Gujerat and Ajmeer. The rivers Nerbuddah, Soopra, Calysind, 
Neem and Lowdy, flow through this soubah. The situation of this soubah, 
compared with other parts of Hindostan, is high. Both harvests are very good. 
Wheat, poppies, mangoes, musk melons, and grapes, are here in high perfection. 
This soubah is divided into the following districts, viz. — 1. Oojein; 2. Roysain; 
3. Gurrah; 4. Chendary; 5. Sarangpoor; 6. Beejagur; 7. ,Mendow; 8. Hindia; 
9. Nuzerbar; 10. Merusoor; 11. Gayroon; 12 Kowtree Beraneh. These districts 
are subdivided into 301 pergunnahs, and contain 280,816 cavalry; 68,000 influi- 
try; and 90 elephants.” 

From the above delineation it appears, that when the institutes of Acber 
were composed, the province of Malwah extended to the south of the Nerbud- 
da, and an angle touched on Baglana, on the south-west, and Berar on the 
south-east. The rest of the southern boundary was formed by the course of 
the Nerbudda; but it is difficult to reconcile this arrangement with the position 
assigned to the province of Khandesh. In more recent times, the Nerbudda 
has be6n generally considered as its distinguishing southern boundary, on 
crossing which, the Deccan comasences. Towards the north-west, Malwah is 
sefiarated from the district of Harrowty in Ajmeer, by a ridge of mountains 
stre ching c»st,and west, the village of Muckundra. Lat. 24^ 48' N. long. 
76’12'E. 



MALWAH. 727 

This is axsen^ region and of considerable elevation; but with a regular 
descent from the Vindhya mountains, that extend along the north-side of the 
Nerbudda, as is proved by llie numerous streams which have their sourcea in 
that quarter, whence they flow nearly due north until they join the Chumbul, 
and ultimately the Jumna and Granges. Although higher than the adjacent pro- 
vinces, it surpasses them in fertility, the soil being a black vegetable mould, 
producing cotton, opium, indigo, tobacco, and grain in large quantities, besides 
furnishing pasture for numerous herds of cattle. The harvest in this province, 
as in Hindostan generally, is divided into two periods, the one being cut.in 
September and October, and the other in March and April. Rice is cultivated 
only in a few detached spots which lie convenient for water ; but the quantity 
is so small that it can hardly be reckoned among the crops. Barley is not culti- 
vated, the soil being unfavorable to that species of grain. From its elevation, 
this territory enjoys a temperature of climate, flivourable towards the produc- 
tions of many species of fruits which are destroyed by the heat of the lower 
provinces. To the north-west of Oojein many parts are well adapted for the 
movements of cavalry and horse artillery, several plains being there seen, 
extending 30 miles in every direction, and but little broken up by ravines or 
water-courses. None of the rivers of Malwah are navigable, although some of 
them have a remarkable length of course. The sources of the Chumbul and the 
Mahy are among the Yindhyan hills on the northern banks of the Nerbudda, 
and rise at no great distance from each other ; yet the waters of the one ulti- 
mately fall into the bay of Bengal, while those of the other have their outlet in 
the gulf of Cambay. The principal modem territorial subdivisions are the 
following : — 

1. Cutchwara. 4. Mundessor. 7. ^arangpoor. 

2. Chanderee. 5. Oojein. 8. Bopaul. 

3. Omudwara. 6. Mandoo. 9. Raisseen. 

The towns of most note are Oojein, Indore, Bopal, Bilsah, Seronge, Mundessor, 
Burseah and Mundoo ; and the province in general may be considered as the 
cradle of the Pindaries. The laj^est rivers are the Nerbudda, Chumbul, Betwa, 
Sinde, Sepra, Cane, and Parbutty. There does not appear to be any dialect 
peculiar to this province, as in a specimen of the Lord’s Prayer in'whi^ is called 
the Malwah language, the missionaries could trace twenty words as occurring 
in the Bengalese and Hindostany examples, while many of the remainder were 
found to be words of pure Sanscrit. 

This being an Inland province, and without navigable rivers, the whole 
fAtamafflcce is conducted by land-carriage. The principal articles of export are, 
tffhi fb are aentin torge quantities to Gujerat, and to Blinapoor on the 



7»B fm fluyvtsfCE 

Q«« 9 eet» ^nhmm tli^y ue Ibnrwded to Cttoutto ; ed«ne, stained And ipifiAtod 
cloths ; th^ root of toe morindn dtrifolia* and opum. The drug last mentiQatied 
is jcultivated in Malwali to a great extent, and exported to toe adjacent pm- 
xinces. especially to Gujerat and Cattywar, from whence it is smuggled to the 
eastward. From tois province it is generally transported in baskets, containing 
ten- seers, each seer weighing 40 rupees, after undergoing adulteraticm by 
having a moiety or more of flour mixed with the fresh juice. The price of 
genuine opium in Malwah is said to be only four or five rupees ; but after it 
gets into the hands of the retail merchants in Gujerat, it is i^n adulterated 
with various ingredients before it is sold to the consumer. Duimg toe transit 
to Gujerat, the article is subject to very heavy road duties ; yet the merchants 
who dealt in this contraband were formerly numerous at Broach, Surat, afid 
even Bombay, from all of which they exported toe commodity to Cattywsir, 
Arabia and Persia. Formerly two kinds of opium were brought to Surat, the 
one from Malwah, and toe other from toe ports of the Red Sea, the produce of 
Upper Egypt. The price of the first was 4-Jy and of the last 7-^ rupees, for 
the heavy seer. The Malwah drug was re-exported to Bhownuggur, Diu, Cutch, 
Prince of Wales island, the Malay coast, China, and even back again to par- 
ticular parts of Malwah, at 5^ rupees per heavy seer ; the Egyptian (nearly the 
whole of which went to Mooltan) at eight rupees per heavy seer. On account 
of its cheapness, Gujerat, Cutch, and Cattywar, are still supplied with opium 
from Malwah ; that disposed of at the Government sales in Calcutta, being so 
high as eleven rupees per seer. The Malwah tobacco, particularly that of the 
Bilsah district, is beyond all comparison the best in India, and much sought 
after by the votaries of the hookah. It is surprising that the eager demand and 
high price have never influenced the natives to increase the cultivation mate- 
rially *, but they prefer substituting tobacco of a different growth, and asserting 
that it is toe genuine Bilsah, relying on the ignorance and want of taste of their 
customers. 

This province was invaded early in the I3th century, by the Patan sovereigns 
of Delhi, and was either wholly subdued or rendered tributary. Its subjection 
to toat empire continued very precarious until the 14 th and 15th centuries, 
during which 'period it was governed by independent sovereigns of toe Patan 
or Afghan race, whose capital was Mandow (Mundoo), situated among the 
Vindhya mountmns. After toe conquest of Delhi, by toe Mogul dynasty, 
Malwah was soon subdued, and continued to form a province of that empire 
until toe death of Aurengzebe, in 1707, when it was invaded and overrun by 
toe Maharattas, and finally separated from the Mogul dominions about toe year 
1732, during the raiga iff Sahoo lEtaja, whose tribe and sucoessoia have ev«v 



f 


OUnur^l. 

1 

|i|| ^ |j| ^, tift •mM l«aiboM«n, bowever. irIio were 
46{iiM of Mr po OTCMk m by tite Malwnittw, still retained smne forte die* 
pmed over Ibe ooontry , and partly by treaty^ partly by force, lecdved a por- 
tktt of tbe rents fonn the neighbouring villt^; these people are here, as in 
Qnjmt, known by the name of Grassias ; and in 1790, during the life-time of 
Madht^ Sindia, one of them possessed a mud fort within ten miles of Oojein. 
Beside these regular exactions, the Grassias have always been noted as ii«e- 
booters, when any confusion of affoirs, or distress of government, weakened 
tile military coercion of tiie native police. In addition to this class, a great 
number of petty chiefo held hereditary possession of certain portions of country, 
for which tiiey pay revenue to the superior Maharatta leaders, and while this 
part of their engagement is performed, are little interfered with in the internal 
management of their territories. Each of these chieftains possesses one or more 
strong holds, with which the province abounds; their subjugation, therefore, 
when refractory, is attended with considerable difficulty and expense, and they 
frequently make it a point of honour to withhold their revenue until the pay- 
ment is compelled by an adequate force. 

In the southern division of Malwah, the savage tribe of Bheels are found in 
considerable numbers, especially among tiie mountains contiguous to the Ner- 
budda and Tuptee rivers, where their chiefs are in possession of all the principal 
passes, These are a jungle people, and by some supposed to have been the 
aborigines of central Hindostan, extending west to Gujerat, where they meet 
the Coolies, and east to Gundwana, where they come in contact with the Gonds; 
but the points of difierence which distinguish these tribes from each other 
respectively, and collectively from the lower classes of Hindoos, have never 
been accurately ascertained. The Bheels inhabit the interior, where they 
subsist on the produce of a very scanty cultivation, being generally averse to 
agriculture, and on what they can procure by hunting and thieving; the Coolies 
are found mostly on or near the sea-coast, where, until lately, they employed 
themselves in fishing and piracy. Their common points of resemblance seem to 
be an aversion to regular industry, and a proneness to predatory rapine, at 
wbieh they are particularly expert, and were in ccmsequence frequently employed 
by the native chiefs to desolate the territories of their adversanes. Some of 
foem have recently got mounted, and serve as cavalry; but a great pnaportion 
are infontiy, nearly in a state of nakedness, and armed with bows and arrows. 
In religion they are Hindoos of the Brahminical persuasicm; but in feedii^ 
addic t ed to many impure practices, the agcred order having nev» be^ at 
any paina to iastmctthem on die subject, 

fou I. 5 a 




730 THE PROVINCE 

Owing to tbe total dissolution of all legidar govenaneat tiuRMm^oirt tids poit 
of India, tlie iUieels wea« evid^tly advancu^ in jKditieal stro^di, and wovU 
have so(m emerged into notice as a substantive power, Imving acquired, ftoos tik^ 
roving and predatory habits, an ascendancy over several, petty nalsve s^dea in 
their vicinity, such as that of Rajpepla, whexe^ taking advantage of intemsl dm> 
sensicms they had nearly reduced the country to condition a desert In 
1818, Mundroot Singh, and other predatory chiefo who had strong htdds <m the 
Narbudda, and who had for many years rendered territories in dmir vicinity 
uninhabitable^ attended Sir John Malcolm on his last march southward to protect 
the coimtry they had so long plundered. On that occasion, die principal Bheel 
leaders, who occupied the mountains, fiolicited and were promised friend 
and also a fair consideration of their claims which are very moderate, and 
been for more than a century admitted by all the dominant governments of 
tr^ Hindostan. The more immediate results of these arrangements were, 
above 100 villages between the Satpoorah range and Indore, most of which had 
been abandoned fmr years, were repeopled, the peasant being enabled once more 
to cultivate his field in security. 

In 1818, after the Pindary war had been brought to a successful conclusion, 
an insurrection was organized in the south-western portion of Malwah, under 
a boy impostor named Krishna, who, for the occasion, was made to personate 
the reigning and legitimate Ra|a, Mulhar Row Holcar. The country chosen by 
the insurgents for their operations is the strongest and most inaccessible in this 
quarter of Malwah, consisting of the deep line of hills and jungles, which ex- 
tend north and south from Pertaubghur, passing Rutlam within eight or ten 
miles, and stretching onwards by Petlawud, Boree, Bang, and Cooksee, to near 
the N^rbudda, and continuing west to a great distance, through the territories of 
Banswanb, Doongurpoor, Koshalghur, Bareah, and Chota Odeypoor. From 
the country of Mewar, to the north and west of Pertaubghur, the insurgents 
could not look for support, except from one or two predatory chiefs ; but the 
tracts above enumerated teemed with the elements of msurrection, besides the 
Bheeb, Mog^iees, and a number of Soandies, who had b^n driven into the 
jungles by the successful operations in Soandwarah, and lastly, numerous bodies 
of Arabs and Mekranies (from Meckran in Persia) were scattered over the 
country^ Those at Bahswiurah had joined the impostor, a party were at Rut- 
lam, another at Jabooah, a third at Amjerah, while a force of 7 or 800 under 
Muzalfer, a Mekrany chief, were in possession of Cooksee, Ghkkulda, and 
Ally Mphun. The wliole of &se Arabs and Mekranies kept up a regular com- 
munication, aud, fn»n ihlerested^ nmtives, fdt a natural antipathy to the bran- 
qtiUliztng system, it being obviously inoompatible with die doretion of their 




OF MALWAH, 791 

ascM^Mlaiusy over the petty native states. The leaders o{ the insurgmits natu* 
rally calculated on assistance, in some shape, from the discontented mercenaries, 
who trusted for pay .to chanoe and plunder; but their plots and combinations 
were completely frustrated by the energy and activity of the officers and troops 
employed against them. In their first movements, the rebels were confined to 
the hills, next pursued amidst their ffistnesSes, then cut off firom mutual succour 
by the intervention of detachments where least expected, and in the mid totally 
routed and dispersed. The impostor escaped for the moment, but every one of 
his principal adherents were taken, and his cause at last utterly abandoned. 

During these proceedings, the contrast of past misery with the consciousness 
of present safety was felt by all ; and the fervour of their gratitude to the 
British government was enhanced by the obviously disinterested character of 
its interference, so far as pecuniary profit was concerned. The grand result 
contemplated, was the establishing and maintaining the peace of India, and this 
object, Sir John Malcolm personally explained to all ranks ; to the head of a 
village as well as to the sovereign of a kingdom ; to the leader of a gang of rob- 
bers as well as to the commander of an army. But the feelings that had been 
excited in ail classes, (not excepting the military,) by their preying on each other 
until the means of subsistence, even to the strongest, were exhausted, could 
not be expected to last long; advantage was in consequence taken of existing 
circumstances, and troops distributed in such a manner, that while they pre- 
cluded the foreign mercenaries firom tumult or violence, proved to them that any 
act of conciliation or liberality was not the offspring of fear or necessity. 

The general result of these and other arrangements, effected by Sir John 
Malcolm, was the expulsion of nearly 4000 Sindies and Mekranies, and 2000 of 
Bapoo Sindia's Mewatties and Patans ; the restoration to power and security of 
the rulers of the different petty states ; the establishment of the just daims of 
Sindia, Holcar, and the Powar family; and, finally, the restoration to their 
houses and homes of a multitude of the peaceable and industrious classes — the 
whole accomplished without bloodshed. The discharged mercenaries were 
treated with kindness, and all the petty chieftains were warned, that the re- 
entertaining of them would be considered tantamount to a declarati<m of hos- 
tility against the British government. On the other hand, the reform of the 
Grassia, Rsypoot, and Bheel freebooters*, was not, when properly managed, so 
difficult a task as had been anticipated. Accustomed to oppression and con- 
tempt as diese tribes had been, whenever the government to which &ey owed 
allegiance was strong enough to despise them, they were gratified by the kind- 
ness and cimsideration shewn thmn by a power whose superior mrams of coerckm 
were hnrenstffile. Although reduoed k aome mpects, kehr coaditum in others 

5x2 



THE PROVINCE [beodam. 

WES raised, i^d they were particularly pleased, the negotiation, the 

absence of all suspicion of meditated treachery, a mark of in&my tibat had 
hitherto attached to the most fovoured of their race. To inspire them with some 
confidence in their own honesty, Sir John Malcolm employed the most notorious 
of these freebooters near his person, and as guards over property and treasure, 
whjch duties they invariably fulfilled with care and fidelity. — (&r John Makobn, 
HutOer, Rennell, Scott, Marquis Wdksky, ^c. ^c. ) 

Betwa River (V^Oava .) — ^This river, from its source near Bopal to its con- 
fluence with the Jumna below Calpee, describes a course of 340 miles in a north- 
easterly direction. By the natives it is reckoned hi^ly sdubrious, although 
in part of its journey it appears to run through beds of iron ore. Near Erecjh 
it presents, in November, a serpentine stream of clear water passing vast ra- 
vines on one side, with cultivated fields and a broken chain of hills. A ledg^ 
of rocks originating from these hills crosses the river, forming a barrier ; and 200, 
yards further on, a reef of rocks is seen above the ^5urface of the water, ovei'' 
which the stream rushes with a iwing' noise. Near the town of Barwah, in 
the month of March, the channel is about three furlongs broad, sandy, and full 
of round stones ; but the water only knee deep. During the rains it swells to 
such a height as not to be fordable.— f Public Journals, Hunter, 4‘c. 

CoTCHW ARA ( CacKckwara.) — k large district in the province of Malwa, but 
not enumerated under this appellation in the Ayeen Acberry. It principally 
occupies the north-western quarter, and is intersected by the Cali Sinde, the 
Parbutty, the Neemuj, and Koharry rivers, none of which are> navigable, even 
during the height of the rains. The principal towns are Shahabad, Kailwarra, 
and Gagroon. 

Muckundra . — k village in the province of Malwah, situate about 28 miles 
S. S. E. from Kotah, lat. 24° 50' N. long. 75° 55' E. This place stands in a val- 
ley, nearly circular, about three-fourths of a mile in diameter, surrounded by 
very steep hills, and only accessible by an opening to the south, and another to 
the north, each of which is defended by a stone wall and a gate. This is the only 
pass within many miles through a ridge of mountains, which extends to the east 
and west, separating the province of Malwah from the district called Harowty, 
or country of the tribe Hara in Ajmeer. At Chunkmree, 14 miles to the east- 
ward, a great fidr for horses and cattle is held. 

Gaoeoon. — k town in the Malwah province, 49 miles S. E. from Kotah. Lat 
24*3r N. long. 76° 12' E. 

SvcKUTPOOB. — A town in the Malwah province, 64'inile8 E. S. E. from Kotah. 
Lat. 76’ 31' N. long. 24° 52' E. 

Beodah.— A town in the province of Malwah» ^ milM E..K, B. from Kotah. 
Lat 23° 32' N. long. 76° 4^' E. 



TOOMOON.] OF MAIWAH. 733 

Kailvaea. — A town in the Blalwah promce, 66 miles E. from Kotah. Lat. 
25* 14' N. long. 76* AT E. 

Nhai7rohuk.-^A town in the province of Malwah, 64 miles E. by S. from 
Kotah. Lat.26*9rN. long. 76* 36' E. 

Chanoeebe (Chandri ). — large district in the province of Malwah, of 
which it occupies the north-western extremity, and by Abul Fazel, in 1582, 
described as follows : — Circar Ghendary, containing 61 mahals, measurement 
554,277 begahs; revenue 31,037,763 dams; seyurghat 29,931 dams. This cir- 
car fumisbes 5970 cavalry, 90 elephants, and 60,685 infantry.” Although of 
a mountainous sur&ce, this district is very productive when under proper culti- 
vation; the soil of this portion of Mdwah being described by travellers as of 
superior fertility, and it is intersected by many streams, such as the Betwa and 
Sinde, which serve to irrigate the land, but are not navigable even for small 
boats. The principal towns are Chanderee, Seronge, Khemlasa, Maltown, and 
Ragooghur. 

Ghakderee. — T his is a very ancient town, being described by Abul Fazel>as 
containing 14,000 stone houses, but like many other cities of Hindostan, it now 
exhibits a mixture of houses and population scattered among ruins. Lat. 24** 32' 
N. long. 78” 10' £. 48 miles N. N. E. from Seronge. It is said, that for above 300 
years the Raja of Ghanderee’s family have enjoyed their present dominions. In 
1790, Ram Ghund lived in retirement in the province of Oude, having left Us 
district under the administration of his son, who paid tribute to the Maharattas, 
by whom the country was little molested until 1812, when it was attacked by 
Rowlet Row Sindia and the existing Riya, Murdin Singh, compelled to pay 
additional contributions . — ( Abul Fasel, Hmtter, Richardson, Sgc,) 

Ragooghur . — A town in the province of Malwah, 36 miles N. W. from Se- 
ronge. Lat. 24* 23' N. long. 77* 12' £. This place belonged to Raja Jeysingh, a 
feudatory of Sindia, who sent his commander Baptiste to capture it, which he 
did, after a considerable resistance ; but during tiie siege, Jeysingh surprised 
Baptiste's own fort of Sheopoor, which cost him a great deal of trouble to re- 
cover. Jeysingh has ever since led a refractory and predatory life, Sindia being 
utterly unable with his ovm forces to suppress him. 

Kollabaug. — A. town in the Malwah province, 55 miles N. from Seronge. 
Ut. 24*61' N. long. 77*30' E. 

Chuppea. — ^A town in the Malwah province, 68 miles N. W. from Seronge. 
Lat. 24*39'N. long. 76* 49' E. 

Bheehut . — A town in the province of Malwah, 38 miles S. by W. from 
Jhansi. Lat 25* 4' N. long. 78* 15' £. 

Toonoon.—- A tmaU townm tiieprovipcedf Malwah, 84 miles W. from Ghat- 



734 THE PROVINOE [«Kitoir6£. 

terpoor. Lat25"8'N. long. 78® SiT B. ByAbnl Fa*el,ittl88a»itSfd«ietib^ 
u jfoDows : — ** Toomar u a town utnatnd otk banlts of tho xifor Bet(Nidi» in 
wbidi are seen mermaids. Hero is an idolabrons tmnjde in wlndi if yon beat a 
drum it makes no noise.” 

Mooui. SKRAr.-<-A8 this place is approached from Seronge, the dtevatkm 
incipases, and the ghauts are ascended, so that in one day's march a country is 
reached 800 feet higher than in the nmrning, the whole of the adjacent smrftae 
being considerably elevated above that of Bundelcund. Lat. 24® 17* N. Itmg. 
77*3rE. 

Ck>PAULOH0R. — A town in the province of Malwah, 13 miles N. fiemSeionge. 
Lat 24® 16' N. long. 77® 43' E. ^ j 

Seronoe.— This is a large open town,* which fipom ite size and populatim'l 
may be denominated acity. Lat. 24®6'N. long. 77"4rE. The country forma*' *\ 
miles to the south of Seronge is an open plain, and the country generally is of a ' 
superior description, and the climate, on account of its elevation, more tempe- 
rate the latitude would indicate. During the cold season, the thermometer 
is frequently seen under the freezing point, when natural ice is formed in the 
riiallow pools, but is speedily dissolved after sun-rise. The appearance of 
Seronge indicates a prior state of prosperity, and a greater population than it ht 
present possesses, although its condition is much superior to, what might have 
been expected from the incessant ravages that it has undergone, and from having 
in feet, for many years, under a Pindary government, that of Ameef Khan, 
to whom it was ceded by Holkar, and with the district attached, in 1804, yielded 
him five lacks of rupees annually. The bazars are strong, and are built of 
stone, on an elevation of four feet above the street. A large caravanserai stih 
remains, having a double row of pillars and walled all round. Coarse cloths are 
manufactured here, and are remarkably cheap. In 1809, the British army, when 
in pursuit of Ameer Khan, took possession of Seronge. but only proceeded five 
miles further north, it beingfound impossible to overtake him. This (formerly pre- 
datory) chief still holds Seronge in Malwah, and Tonkon the Banass river, which 
may be considered his two principal possessions; bpt there is scarcely a division 
of Rajpootana or of the country east of the Chumbul, in which he has not sow 
fort, assignment of tead, «r pending claim. The removal of all his thanas, or mili- 
taryposts, was the first result of the British treaties with Jeypoor and Joudpoor; 
but he still holds some places anteriorly obt^ed from those Rajas by Holcar, 
and subsequently assigned to him, ha« engagement with the British government 
securing to him aU the lands which he held in grant from Holcar, his former 
roaster, although it deprived him of the fruits of his own preda*^ career 

fiwnAgmfi^i ftomBenares 



wiroxw^.} OF MALWAh J35 

Akw Bonify 6d5 ; firom Calcutta by Benares 849; andfimn Nas^pocMrasS 
milea.— (ifitk M^piier, Prbucf, Ram^, %e. ^.) 

Kiioavsr.*^-4KWwey and Boraaso are two towns alnuMit united, and are irf* 
considflealife sue, tiie first having a large stone fort. They are iidtabited by 
Patans, wlw settied bore during tiie rei^ of Aurengzebe. In 1790, Raja’s 
revenue was between one and two lacks of rupees, but it was sequestered by the 
Maharattas Ibr a debt due to Ihem. — ( Hunter, ^.) 

Khemlasa. — A large walled town with a fort adjoining, 37 mfies E. by N. 

;#ni Seroi^. Lat. 24** 14' N. long. 78** 25' E. In 1790, this place was attadu^ 

fibe town of Saugur, distant about 37 miles to the southward. 

RoHNonx. — A town in the province of Malwah, 75 miles N. from Sermge. 
lat. 85* O' N. long. 77* 10' £. 

Sekwaho. — town in the province of Malwah, 73 miles N. E. firom Seronge. 
Lat. 24" 31' N. long. 78“ 48' E. 

Mohunfoor. — town in the province of Malwah, 49 miles N. from Seronge. 
lat. 24“ 47' N. long. 77“ 36' E. 

MuNGRowi.EE. — ^A town in the Malwah province, 31 miles N. £. firom Se> 
ronge. Lat. 24“ 24' N. long. 77“ E. 

Bassovda. — ^A large walled tovm in the province of Malwah, 24 miles S. £. 
fipom Seronge. Lat. 23“ 53' N. long. 78“ E. The soU in this neighbourhood is 
..itemately a black mould and a reddish clay, with stones of a ferruginous ap- 
pearance. In 1790, Bassouda belonged to the BUsah district, and was tributary 
to the Maharattas; and in 1817, it was a noted haunt, where a considerable body 
of Pindaries usually rendezvoused. — ( Hunter, 8gc. ^c.) 

Omudwara (Umadmra). — A small district in the province of Malwah, cX 
which it occupies the centre, and is bounded by the Cali Sinde, and Parbutty 
rivers. The principal towns are Chaunchra, Rajghur, and Cujneer. 

ChXunchra.— A town in the Malwah province, 42 miles west from Sponge. 
Lat. 24“ 8' N. long. 77“ 3' E. 

SooMEER. — A town of conuderable size, in the province of Malwah, 68 
’dies N. fiom the city of Oojein. Lat. 23^ 59' N. long. 76“ 8' £. In tlus 
neighbourhood the soil is of a rusty iron colour, and but little cultivated. 

Mundessor . — A large district in the province of Malwah, situated tovrards 
the western extremity, and intersected by die Chumbul river. The principal 
town^ are Mundessor, Parkundy, and Hinglaisghur. The town of Mundessor 
is ntuated in lat. 24“ 6' N. long. 75“ 8' E. 80 miles N. W. from Oojein. The 
ii^rauMT is St present in a very ruinous condition, but tiie walls and gateways me 
8**^* ^ ^ square of nearly 120 yards, and sufficiently elevated 

In fooumad the eountiy. Witiiin it is s well good water. At tins town the 
lastitcndy with tiMHolkmfiuiuly was caiidiHled,--< 4^^. ^0 



796 THEPftOVINraB [Hunnow. 

QusroRAVE.-~TA town in Hie Ifalwtli province, 56 mileo N. from Oojdn. 
Lat. 23" 58' N. long. 75" 40' E. 

Paekundy (Parakhandi ). — k town in the Malwah province, 76 N. by 
W. from Oojein. Lat. 24" 8' N. long. 75® 2^ E. 

Rutlam. — A town in the province of Malwah, the capital of a small inde* 
pendent rajaship, situated on the western frontier of the province towards Gii> 
jerat. Ut. 23" 24' N. long. 76" 6' E. 62 miles W. N. W. from Oojein. The 
adjacent' country is of a very wild description from Banswara to rhio place, 
being almost one continued jungle ; and from Manoorah to Pertaubghur, wholly 
so, the few inhabitants being principally of the Bheel tribe. The merooiary 
Arabs in their service had long ^n a pestilence to the petty Rajas of Doongliir* 
poor, Pertaubghur, Banswara, and Rutlam ; but in 181*6, arrangments wpe 
concluded under the direction of Sir John. Malcolm, which rdieved them frrai 
the tyranny of their own servants. \ 

Taundla . — A town in the Malwah province, 80 miles W. from the city hi 
Oojein. Lat. 23® 4' N. long. 74* 38' E. 

Petlawad. — A town in the Malwah province, 66 miles west from the city 
of Oojein. Lat. 23® 6' N. long. 74“ 62' E. 

Rajode. — A toMm in the Malwah province, 46 miles W. by S. from Oojein. 
Lat. 23" 3' N. long. 76" ^ E. 

HiNOLAiaoHUB. — ^This fortress is surrounded by a deep natural ravine, 260 
feet in length and 200 in breadth, the sides perpendicular; on the innaT of 
which the walls of the fori ^ built. There are also three made causeways 
leading to the gates. Hinglaisghur has been in the possession of the Holcar 
frmily since about the middle of the 18Hi century, and by the natives is consi- 
dered one of the strongest castles in their dominions ; yet, on the 2d of July, 
1804, it was carried by assault with little loss, by the detachment under Colonel 
Monson, during the campa^ against Jesvrunt Row Holcar. Lat. 24" N. 
long. 76" 48' E. 90 miles north firom Oojein. 

SooEEL. — A town in the Malwah province, 80 miles N. from Oojein. Lat. 
24“ 23' N. long. 76* 66' E. This is a place of considerable extent, and of a 
square form, having two broad streets that cross each -other at right angles in 
the middle of the town . — ( Huntevt ^.) 

Bamfooea. — A town in the province of Malwah, 43 miles south from Kotal^ 
Lat. 24" BT N. long. 76“ 33'*E. 

Maheidpoor.— A village ia the province oS Malwah, situated on the baiAs 
oi the Seppraiiver, 24 miles aoRh from Ooymn. On tim 17th of BeoMaber* 
1817, the army nomhmlly bdkM^jing to Mnlhar Bokar, but in leafity com- 
imiided Khan, and other refractory Patani^efi^ was tM^teoied 



80 ANDWARA.] ^ OF MALWAH. 737 

by the British forces under Sir Thomas flidop, with the loss of all their artillery 
(63 pieces), eight elephants, and between 200 and 300 camels. The British 
casualties in this battle were very severe, amounting to 174 killed and 604 
wounded. Among the former were three officers, Lieutenants Macleod, Cole* 
man, and Glen : among the latter no less than 35, of whom 8 belonged to the 
rifle corps, which alone lost 130 killed and wounded. This slaughter vtras occa- 
sioned by Qolcar’s artillery, which was admirably served by his artillerymen, 
most of whom were bayoneted at their guns. But few prisoners were made in 
the battle, but many in the hot pursuit that ensued, by the cavalry and Mysore 
horse, under Sir John Malcolm.— C Public Documents, Printed «§’ MS. Sgc.) 

SoANDWAE A. — A. wUd tTRCt in the province of Malwah, which stretches from 
Auggur to the Chumbul, east and west, and from near Bampoora to Oojein, 
north and south. In 1818, the inhabitants consisted mostly of bands of here- 
ditary plunderers, who having been expelled from their lands by the Maharattas, 
had taken shelter among the forests, ravines,, .and mountains of Malwah, from 
whence by their inroads, they had for more than half a century disturbed the 
peace of the whole province. Even after its conquest by the British, the na- 
tural difficulties of the country encouraged the Soandies to' persevere in their 
predatory habits, but as the entire suppression of every tendency to violence 
was absolutely essential to the establishment of the new system, it became neces- 
sary to coerce them effectually. When Sir John Malcolm undertook the settle- 
ment of this distracted territory, it was in concert with our native allies, the 
Kotah Raja, Sindia, Holcar, and others, who were extremely anxious that the 
British army should become the instrument of extirpating a tribe, which they 
pronounced as incorrigible, and certainly they were so, while pursued as they 
had been with Are and sword for half a century. A considerable force pene- 
trated into the country in March, 1818, and the various attacks upon the 
Soandies who refused to submit were completely successful. In the space of 
six weeks, 13 strong holds were taken, and five of them razed to the ground. 
The freebooters being in this manner expelled from their fastnesses, sought 
safety by flyii^ to a distance, but wherever they went they found themselves 
proscribed as enemies to the British government, and to protect them was to 
provoke its vengeance. This produced such misery, that they came in one after 
another, giving up their arms and horses according to the terms offered them; 
in return for which they were encour^ed to cultivate the fields they had so long 
desolated. In this enterprize, the troops of Zalim Singh, of Kotah, commanded 
by Meenab Khan, co-operated with mueh spirit ; and in one instance met with 
•0 desperate a resistance in carrying the village of Narrdlla by stmrn, that they 
vot.. I. be 



THE PROVmCE 


738 




lost about 200 killed and wounded on die spot*— John Maksut Primps 

Okeil . — k town in the Malwah province, 18 miles N. N. W. from Oojein. 
Ut23“2r N. long. 76® 36' E. 

OojEiK (Ujjaym). — district in the province of Malwah, situated towards 
the south-western extremity, and containing die capitals of both the Sindia and 
Hoicar families. By Abul Fazel, in 1682, it is described as follows : — “ Cir- 
car Oojein. contuning 10 Mahals; measurement 926,622 begahs; revenue 
43,827,960 daaas. This circar famishes 3260 cavalry and 11,170 infantry." 

The soil in the vicinity of the city of Oojein, and over the greatest part of the 
Malwah province, is a black vegetable mould, which in the nuny season In- 
comes so soft, that travelling is hardly practicable. In drying, it cracks in U) 
directions, and the fissures are so wide and deep by the road side, as to make\a 
journey dangerous. The quantity of rain that falls in ordinary seasons is m 
considerable, and the ground so retentive of moisture, that wells are little useq 
for watering the fields ; but this makes the suffering more severe, if the periodi- 
cal rains fail, there being no wells ready to supply the deficiency. It is singular 
that the vine in this tract produces a second crop of grapes in the rainy season, 
but they are acidulous, and of an inferior quality. The other fruits are the 
mangoe, guava, plantain, melon, and several varieties of the orange and lime 
trees. In the villages near the city of Oojein, the houses are built entirely of 
mud, theroofe, walls, and floors being all of that composition, which the inhabit- 
ants assert resists the heaviest rains. In 1790, the district immediately depen- 
dent on Qojmn yielded a revenue of five lacks of rupees per annum, and 
comprehended 176 villages.—/ Hunter, Sgc. 8sc.) 

Oojein. — k city of great celebrity in the Malwah province, and the moden 
of the dominions subject to the Sindia Maharattas Lat. 23“ 11 N. 
long. 76® 62' E. By Abiil Fazel, in 1682, it is described as follows : “ Oojein 
is a large city on the banks of the Sopra, and held in high veneration by the 
Hindoos. It is asto nishin g that sometimes this river flows with milk." 

The city of Oojein, called in Sanscrit, Ujjayini and Avanti, boasts a -most 
remote antiquity. A chapter in the Hindoo mj^ological poems named Puia- 
nas, is devoted to the description of it, and it is mentioned in the Periplus of 
the Erythreah sea, as well as by Ptolemy> under the name of Ozene. It is also 
considered by Hindoo geographers and astronomers, as the first meridian. The 
modern town is situated about a mile to the southward of the ancient, which m 
smd 4a,‘lmve been overwh^med 1^ a convulsion of nature, about the time of 
Tioamadltya, when it was the seat of arts, learning, and empire. On the 



OF MALWAH. 


OOJSIV.] 

where the ancient city is supposed to have stood, by digging to the depth 
of 15 or 18 feet, brick walls. piUars of stone, and pieces of wood of an extra- 
<»dinary hardness are found. Utensils of various kinds are sometimes dug up 
in the same places, and ancient coins are frequently discovered. 

The present city of Oojem is of an oblong form, about six miles in circum- 
ference, and surrounded by a stone wall with round towers. Within this space 
there is some waste ground, but the inhabited part occupies the greatest portion, 
and was formerly much crowded with buildings and population ; but the num- 
ber of the latter has been gradually diminishing ; and recently many have been 
attracted to the adjacent city of Indore, where Holcar has at length fixed his 
hitherto migratory court. In appearance, the inhabitants greatly resemble those 
of Surat and Bombay, and indeed are mostly collected from different parts of 
the Deccan. The houses are built partly of brick, and partly of wood ; the 
frame being constructed of wood, and the interstices filled with bricks, having 
a roof of lime terrace, or tiles. The principal bazar is a spacious regular street, 
paved with stone, and having houses on each side two stories high. The lower 
stories, the ascent to which is by five or six steps from the street, are used as 
shops; the upper are the habitations of the owners. The most remarkable 
buildings are four mosques erected by private indiviauals, and a great number 
of Hindoo temples. Sindia’s palace makes but a pour appearance, being so 
much surrounded by other buildings as to be little remarked, and indeed for 
many years past has been but little inhabited by the chief of the family. The 
south wall of the city washed by the Sipra river, is named Jepinghpoor, and 
contains an observatory built by Raja Jeysingh, of Jeypoor, or Jyenagur. It 
is probable that this city and its vicinity are very unhealthy during the rains, 
the black rotten soil containing a great deal of vegetable matter, in a state 
of putrefaction, occasioning exhalations of a most noxious nature, and vitiating 
the quality of the water. 

The officers and public functionaries of the government are almost the only 
Maharatta inhabitants of Oojein. The Mahommedans form a considerable por- 
tion of the population, and are principally composed of a particular class named 
Bohrahs, or Boras. From Surat are imported various kinds of European mid 
Chinese goods, which are frequently to be bought very cheap here. Pearls and 
assafcetida (the latter the production of Sinde) are brought here by the route of 
Marwar, and diamonds from Bundelcund pass through this city to Surat. The 
public bazars mre in general well supplied with vegetables and grain; but in 
1804, when visited by a British embassy, persons were seen dead and d^g 

hunger in the open streets. The inhabitants expluned this circumstance by 
saying that they were strai^rs, and that the fear an individiul felt of i^ewing 

5 B 2 



THE PEOVINCE 


740 


[OOJEIN. 


the appearance of superfluity, occasioned this deplorable want of humanity. 
The neighbouring hills are chiefly composed of granite, but tiiey areeovered 
with vegetable mould of a sufficient depth to admit of cultivation. The town 
has always been noted for a proflision of excellent fruit, especially grapes, of 
which they have two gatherings from the same vine in one year. In 1819 there 
wefe two coco nut trees growing in Kana Khan's garden, which were justly 
reckoned great curiosities, and preserved with much care, it being a tree scarcely 
ever seen at such a distance from the ocean. Adjoining the subterranean ruins 
on the banks of the Sipra, is Raja Bhirtery's cave. It consists of a long gal- 
lery, supported by pillars, with chambers excavated on each side, containing 
male figures curiously carved in the walls. Here Raja Bhirtery, the brother |of 
Raja Vicramaditya is said to have shut himself up after having relinquished me 
world. Among the natives a tradition exists, that this cave formerly extended 
under ground to Benares and Hurdwar. \ 

Ptolemy places Oojein about 255 geographical miles from the mouth of th^ 
river Mahy, but the real distance is not more than 200 miles. Rajas of this city 
are mentioned by Ferishta so early as A. D. 1008, and it was first conquered 
by the Mahommedans about 1230. The celebrated Raja Jeysingh held the city 
and territory of Oojein of the Emperor Mahommed Shah, but it soon afterwards * 
fell into the power of the Maharattas, and has been possessed for four , genera- 
tions by the Sindia family. Jyapa Sindia is the first of the race upon record, 
and was a servant of Bajerow the First, who appointed him to several military 
commands. He was followed by his son Junkojee, who was murdered after 
the battle of PanipUt; and his uncle Ranojee succeeded to his territories. This 
chief left two sons, Kedaijee, the father of Anund Row, the father of Dowlet 
How Sindia, and Madhajee Sindia, who supplanted his elder brother and seized 
on riie riirone. This chief early in life lost a leg at the battle of Paniput, so 
fatal to the Maharattas, but notwithstanding his mutilation, he distinguished 
biititwlf as an active and indefatigable commander, and attained to so high a 
degree of power as completely to controul the whole Maharatta etopire. By 
introducing the European discipline among his troops, he subdu^ a consider- 
able portion of Hindostan Proper, rendered the Rajpoots tributary, and brought 
his dominions in contact with those of the Company under the Bengal presi- 
dency. Having no issue but daughters, he adopted his nephew, Dowlet Row, 
who, on his unde’s decease in 1794, succeeded to his hereditary possessions and 
ocmquests, in prefermice to the son of Madhajee’s own daughter, Balia Bhye, 
which youth was subsequently a^ted by Dowlet Row, but died soon after. 

The whole course of this chieftain’s operarions fiimn the mom»t he ascmided 
the throne; man^ted a systematic design of estabUshuig m ascendancy in ftie 
stat^^.|he ruins of the Peshwa’s authori^. This usm^patum ex- 



ooJiiir,] OP MAiWAH. 74| 

isted in fall force at the commencement of foe last war between foe British 
government andTippoo, and his undue influmice at that crisis not only deprived 
foe former of every benefit from foe nominal alliance with the Peshwa during 
the whole progress of the war, but afforded positive encouragement to the 
cause of Tippoo, while it menaced the dominions of the Nizam. For some suc> 
ceeding years Dowlet How continued to augment his dominions by unceasing 
encroachments on his neighbours, until in 1803 he ventured to try his strength 
with the British, having previously entered into a hostile confederacy with the 
Nagpoor Raja and Jeswunt Row Holcar. A short and vigorous war, of only 
four months’ duration ensued, in the course of which his armies experienced 
such signal defeats from Generals Lake and Wellesley, as threatened the utter 
extinction of his sovereignty. A treaty of peace was in consequence concluded 
on foe 30th of December, 1803, by the conditions of which he ceded to the 
British government all the territory situated between the Ganges and Jumna, 
and his possessions of every description in the countries to the northward of 
these belonging to the Rajas of Jeypoot and Joudpoor, and the Rana of Gohud. 
He also relinquished to the British government the fort and territory of Broach, 
and the fort and territory of Ahmednuggur ; and all his possessions to the south 
of the Adjuntee hills, including foe fort and district of Jalnapoor, the town and 
district of Gandapoor, and all foe other districts between that range of hills 
cond the Godavery. 

The fort of Aseerghur, the city of Boorhanpoor, the forts of Pownaghur and 
Dohud, and foe territories in Khandesh and Gujerat were restored to Sindia. 
The districts of Dhoolpoor, Baree, and Rajakera, and some other lands north uf 
the Chumbttl, Sindia and his adherents were allowed to hold under the Com* 
pany's protection. By fois treaty also, foe British government agreed to pay 
pensions to certain persons attached to the court of that chief, nqt to exceed 
17 lacks of rupees per annum ; in consideration of which he renounced all 
claim to any interference, whatever, in the affairs of his majesty Shah Allum, and 
engird to exclude all hostile Europ^ns from his service. During this short 
campaign, foe city of Oojein was occupied by foe Bomba> army, but it was 
restored on the re-establishment of peace. In March, 1804, a subsidiary treaty 
was concluded, but owing to foe subsequent progress' of events, never acted 
upon. Many disputed points still remaining unadjusted, a definitive treaty 
was arranged by Colonel Malcolm in November, 1805, by which the fortress of 
Oualior and the territories of Gfohud were ceded to Sindia, who agreed to 
rdinquish all foe pensions before mentioned, and also to make the course of 
foe river Chumbul the boundary between foe two states, from foe city of Kotah 
w foe w»t» to foe liinits of foe Gohud territories on foe east. Sindia to 



742 THE PROVINCE [oojein. 

abanddn all claim to tbc north bank, and' the British government to the south, 
with the exception of the talooks of Bhadek and Soosepaxa, which being on the 
banks of the Jumna were to remain with the latter. In consideration of these 
arrangements the British government engaged to pay Sindia personally and 
exclusively four lacks of rupees per annum, and also to assign a jaghire of two 
lacks of rupees to Bauzah Bhye, the wife of Dowlet Row Sindia, and of one 
lack to Chummah Bhye, the daughter of that chief. It was also stipulated, that 
the British government should not interfere in the afiairS of the Rajas of Odey- 
poor, Joudpoor, or Kotah, or of any other chiefs the tributaries of Sindia, 
situated in Malwah or Rajpootana. During the course of these negotiations a 
curious instance of the jVlaharatta character was exhibited, in the perverted 
spirit of reluctant sincerity with which Sindia’s ministers, after the conclusion 
of the war, not only confessed the existence of the hostile confederacy, befqre 
'SO repeatedly and strenuously denied, but actually called upon British justice 
and good faith to punish the treachery of Holcar, for not having fulfilled th^ 
stipulations of the said offensive alliwce against themselves. 

From 1805 to ISIS, the stipend of seven lacks was punctually paid to Sindia 
and his chiefs, ^y. the British government, and no interference with his system 
of exaction from the petty chiefs within the ciicle of his influence ever took 
place. This forbearance, however, does not appear to have been reciprocal, as in 
1808, a letter was received from Sindia, by the supreme government, con- 
taining an application for the payment of two rupees out of the revenue of 
every village in Hindostan to Caudir Sabeb, and Suda Sunkor Row, which 
modest and absurd claim was rejected as wholly inadmissible. Notwithstanding 
the losses sustained in the last war, Sindia’s possessions still continued very 
considerable, and the death of Jeswunt Row Holcar, and the never-ending 
dissensions of the Rajpoot states raised him to comparative importance. But 
new enemies, partly of his own creation, arose in the very heart of his domi- 
nions. These were the Pindarics, virhom in the beginning he fostered, as the 
system placed at his disposal a large body of predatory horse ; but they soon 
outgrew his means of controul ; and latterly, if he had had the inclination, he 
certainly had not the power to suppress them. In addition to this, his country 
was impoverished by mismanagement, and his government in such confusion 
that it scarcely deserved the name ; while his authority was almost confined 
within the walls ef Gualior, where he kept himself locked up to escape the 
insults of his own seditious army. /-His external politics were not less culpable 
that! his internal government, for by exciting the Pindaries to invade die British 
dominions, and by pro'i oting the profligate intrigues of ^e Peshwa finr tibe, 
subversion of the. British predominancy, he had dissolved the treaty of 1805, 



owEiN.] OP MALWAH 743 

Hit mtentioii of making a common cause wi^ the first was clearly established 
by die evidence of the different Pindary chiefs subsequently made prisoners ; 
and with respect to the last, the Marquis of Hastings caused to be delivered to 
him in open court, his own letters, signed with his own hand and sealed with 
his own private seal, evincing the most hostile machinations already matured 
against the British government. Nothing more was said on the delivery of these 
letters, except that the Governor-General had no desire to peruse them, and 
that his highness would perceive the seals were unbroken. The detection was 
so complete, tlmt no denial or explanation was attempted; and Sindia was 
accordingly informed that as the subsisting ties of amity did not appear to be 
sufficiently binding, a new treaty must be concluded, which, while it preserved 
to him the benefits of the former, would prevent all opposition on his part to 
the extirpation of the Pindaries. 

A treaty was in consequence arranged in 1817, by Captain Close, on the 
part of the British government ; by the conditions of which Sindia engaged 
to exert his utmost efforts to effect the extermination of the Pindaries, 
and with the view to the more effectual prosecution of this object to admit 
British garrisons into the fortresses of Hindis and Aseerghur durii^ the war. 
The main object of the contracting parties being to prevent, for ever, the revival 
of the^ Pindary and predatory system in any form; the 6th article of the treaty 
of 1805, by which the British government was restrained from entering into 
treaties with certain chiefs therein specified, was annulled, by which circum- 
stance it was left at liberty to form engi^ements with the states of Odeypoor, 
Joudpoor and Kotah, with the principality of Boondee, and with the other 
substantive states on the left bank of the Chumbul : Stndia’s lawful tributes 
being secured and guaranteed to him. Notwithstanding the apparent modera- 
tion of the above treaty, Sindia evaded signing it until the 5th November 1817, 
when two powerful armies were on his frontier, and even for two months 
subsequent he made no effort to furnish the auxiliary stipulated; but remained 
wi^tching the progress ot events. The day he selected for affixing his signature 
happened to be (although then unknown to him) the very one on which the 
P^wa Bajerow attacked tne British residency at Poona, and had he delayed 
for 24 hours longer much severer terms would have been imposed on him. Even 
after its conclusion, notwithstanding the recent sdliance, it was necessary for 
tite British armies to maintain the same attitude towards him as if daily in ex- 
pectation of an attack. This suspicious line of policy continued until the battle 
Ifaheidpoor, when the eftect of that suddmi annihilation of the power of 



744 THE PB0VINC5E [ooiMU. 

Holcar became apparent in the altered condnct oi the CKialior DuitMur, wludh 
from that epocha resigned itself to every arrangement required suggested by 
the Governor-General. 

The territories at present possessed by Dowlet Row Sindia are still very 
considerable, but they are so much intermixed that it is not possible to discri- 
mmate them. When the treaty of Gualior was concluded, it was distinctly 
intimated to him, that if any .of bis sirdars or chiefs proved refractory, or resisted 
the terms of the treaty, the acquisitions made from them would be retained by 
the British, as a compensation for the expense incurred. Frequent instances 
of resistance have occurred which required a considerable expen^ture of blood 
and treasure to subdue, but in almost all«these cases the conquered tracts have 
been restored to Sindia. In 1818, some exchanges of territory took place! in 
the course of which he transferred to the British government : 1st. The fort and 
district of Ajmeer. 2d. All his claims on Boondee for tribute, or lands held W 
lieu of tribute, as also the cession of any recent and unjust acquisitions froiln 
tte B oondee domains. 3d. The fort and district of Islamni^r. 

S ince 1809, the controul of Sindia’s aifoirs have been mostly in the hands of 
a banker named Gocul Paruk, necessary for his financial abilities ; but even he 
appears tired of his office, as in 1818 he proceeded on a pilgrimage to Mathura, 
from whence he shews no disposition to return. In 1819, Sindia had no legits 
mate male descendants. butArhd two daughters married into families hostile to 
each other. It maybe expected that after a lapse of time, when the new 
federal system of Hindostan shall have acquired stability, that Sindia will see 
the necessity of shaping his policy accordingly, and of abandoning all hopes of 
being able to maintain the shadow of asce\idancy which has hitherto * misled 
him, and destroy the preposterous notions he entertains of his own importance. 
At present he stands alone in his political independence; but is completely 
shackled without, and having latterly completed the ruin of his military com- 
manders, such as Baptiste, Bapoo Sindia and Jeswunt Row of Jawud, an utter 
dissolution of his army has ensued, and the troops have crowded to Gualior, 
clamorous for their arrears ; so that it is only the presence of the auxiliary force 
under British officers that protects his personal safety. This contingent con-, 
sists of 5000 horse which he is bound to maintain in a state of efficiency, for 
which purpose Sindia’s stipends, Rajpoot tributes, and lands about Aseeighur 
and Hindis, have been ceded for three years. His internal resources have, from 
mismanagement, become nearly ul^ess, and as every field foirexteroal aggres- 
sion i shut, his focttlties must lie dormant, unlera exerted, which is not very 
likely, in promottni peaceful ami industrious hahfts.amoag his subjects. H he 



nwwtj OP MAiWAH. 745 

ft rdGnfti i& tte ftdmmistratioQ of i^yn» or to co&troul bk mutinoufl 
army, hb smut OftU in Hie aid of toe Britito gOTermnent* hts own authority 
qtiBe fttaequai to the task. Such a criris, however, might stiU be averted 
hy toe regulsr payment of his troops and establishment ; but the diance of such 
«B improvanent is next to hopeless, and wlun we reflect that the government 
has hitoerto chi^y subsisted on tesourOes extorted by rapine and violence, the 
finfll dissduttbn of so inegulai* a system nuy be predicted as not being very 
rrasote. 

Trav^ing distodm from Calcutta to Oojein by Mundlah 997 miles; from 
Bombay by Booihanpow 600 ; from Delhi 440 ; from Hyderabad 534 ; from 
Nagpoor 340; and f\<Mn Poona 442 miles. — (Hunter, Mar^^ Hastingt, Primq>, 
Chse, Pi^tk MS. Doeumadt, Remell, Ferishta, Wil/ord, ^c. ^r. S^e.) 

Dew ASS. — A. toum and principality in the Malwah province, 23 miles S. £. 
from dojein. Lat. 22* 68' N. long. 77“ 6' E. Prior to 1818, this tract had 
suffered greatly from toe devastation of the Soandies. 

SoNEKDTCH. — towu in the Malwah province, 37 miles E. by S. from toe 
city of Oojein. Lat 23“ 1' N. long. 76* 23' E. 

Mow. — ^A-town in the province of Malwah, situated 12 miles S. W. from 
Indore, but not yet laid down in any map. At this place there is a permanent 
British force of 4000 men stationed, and another force is placed at Neematok 
towards Odeypobr, comiecting the grand cantonments at the city of AJmeer 
with Gujerat and Malwah. 

Shahjehakpoor. — A. town in the Malwah province, 34 miles N. N. E. from 
Oojein. Lat. 23“ 26' N. long. 76* 20' E. This is a place of considerable size, 
and stands on toe banks of toe Sagormutty river. About half a mile to toe west- 
ward is a conical hill, conspicuous at a considerable distance.— 

IwDOBE (Indura, a rat ). — city in the province of Malwah, the capital of 
the Holcar &mily, although it has been for many years past but very little fre- 
quented by them. It is consequently inconsiderable in point of size and popu- 
lati<m, and being but weakly fortified, has usually surrendered without resistance 
to every army that has invested it. Lat. 22“ 43' N. long. 75“ 48' E. 

Mqlhar Row Holcdr, of the Gareri or shepnerd tribe, the founder of this 
dynasty, row to eminence under the first Peshwa, when he received in marrh^e 
toe daughter of Naj^on Row Bund, the maternal uncle of Sahoo Raja. He 
obtamed high co mm a nd s under Bajerow and bis successors, and escaped toe 
massacre at toe Imttle of P^put. His son Candi Row, and grand dau^ter 
Ahili JB^ye, both djed in his own lile-time. His wife Goutama Bhye adopted a 
. Hoicai', whq swceeded to to« territoriea of Mal^ Row. On 

m 1797* iw letofriim sons ; two 
6 c 



746 THE PROVINCE {ivdobi;. 

and Mulhar Row ; and two illegitimate* Witul Row and Jeswunt Row Hdl<iar. 
Dissensions arising among them, most of their possessions were seized en hy 
Dowlet Row Sindia after putting to death Mulhar Row \ the remainder were 
usurped by Jeswunt Row Holcar, to the prejudice of the legal heir Casi Row 
llolcar. 

A long contest for superiority ensued between Dowlet Sindia and Jeswunt 
Row Holcar. In 1601, the army of the latter was defeated by that of Dowlet 
Row, with the total loss of all his artillery, and the dispersion of his regular 
battalions, after which this city was captured, and exposed to all the horrors of 
indiscriminate plunder, during two successive days, to gratify at once the 
vengeance of Sindia, and the rapacious avarice of his troops. Holcar, how* 
ever, soon collected another army, which is no difficult matter in India, and in 
1802 determined to make Poona the theatre of his operations, towards which he 
marched with an army mostly composed of adventurers, and estimated at 40,000 
cavalry and 30,000 infantry. On receiving intelligence of this movement, Si'jadia 
detached an army under the command of Sedasheo Show to Poona, which in the 
month of September effected a junction with the troops of thd Peshwa. A 
general action took place on the 25th of October, 1802, when Sedasheo Bhow 
was completely defeated, and Holcar entered the capital. During these opera* 
tions he had so effectually desolated his adversary’s territories in the south, 
that it would have been impossible for him to have subsisted his arn)y, and' the 
myriads attached to it, without invading the dominions of the Nizam. General 
Wellesley declared, that he had not left a stick standing within 150 miles of 
Poona ; the forage and grain were consumed, the houses pulled down for fuel, 
and the inhabitants with their cattle compelled to fly from the destruction that 
threatened them. During the march of the British army from Meritch, except 
in one village, not a human creature was seen, and this desolation must have 
soon extended to the British territories, if these hordes of ravagers had not been 
driven to the north of the Nerbudda. 

The fortune of this adventurer was now at its greatest elevation, but his 
situation was entirely precarious owing to the instability of bis resources, which 
one day made him predominant in the Maharatta empire, and the next reduced 
him to the condition of a fugitive without a home or capital. Being compelled 
by the advance of General Wellesley to make a rapid retreat from Potma, his 
enormous army soon melted away, as the scene of their predatory exploits became 
limited, and ^ing destitute of any permanent revenue, he was compelled to 
supply the exigencies of the reminder by indiscriminate ]^under. At this time 
his possessions in the Deccan consisted principally of the distribt of Amber*' 
sitimted between Jaiui^poor, Auiiii^bad* and the G^very ; half ihutriet oC-., 



INDORE.] OF MALWAH. 747 

Seingaum south of the Godavery (the other half appertaining to Sindia) ; the 
fort of Chandore, and a few tracts in Kandesh. The total revenues of the family 
were computed at 80 lacks of rupees ; but a small proportion of this ever reached 
the chiefs treasury, there being no established laws in his dominions, where 
every head of a village was a petty chief, who seized and kept what he could. 

Jeswunt Row remained neuter during the war in 1803 between the combined 
forces of Sindia and the Nagpoor Raja against the British government; but 
after its conclusion resumed his predatory habits with increased audacity. After 
much ineffectual negotiation, a war ensued, which Holcar commenced most in* 
auspiciously, by the murder of three British officers then in his service, Captains 
Vickars, Todd, and Ryan. In the subsequent actions his forces were routed 
and dispersed wherever they could be come up with, but his perseverance and 
activity, added to the unexpected secession of the Bhurtpoor Raja, greatly pro- 
crastinated the conclusion and increased the expense of the war. Chandore 
his capital was captured by the Bombay army in 1804, and the last campaign of 
this usurper was only a flight before the British army, which pursued him as far 
as the banks of the Beyah or Hyphasis in the Punjab, where in 1806, being re- 
duced to extreme distress, he sent agents to Lord Lake to solicit a peace. 

A treaty was in consequence arranged with him by Colonel Malcolm on the 
part of the British government, by the conditions of which Holcar renounced all 
claim on Tonk, Rampoora, Boondee, Lakheree, Saraeydee, Bhamingaum, Dare, 
and other places north of the Boondee hills ; and the British engaged to have no 
concern with the ancient possessions of the Holcar family in Mewar, Malwah, 
and Harowty, or with any of the Rajas situated south of the Chumbul. The 
British government also agreed to deliver over such of the ancient possessions 
of the Holcar family in the Deccan, situated south of the river Tuptee, with the 
exception of the fort and pergunnah of Chandore, the pergunnahs of Amber and 
Seinghaum, and the villages and pergunnahs situated to the south of Godavery. 
These were retained as surety for the conduct of Holcar, which, if such as to 
satisfy the British government, it engaged at the expiration of 18 months from 
the date of the treaty, to restore the whole of them to the Holcar family. On 
the other hand the latter relinquished all claim to the district of Koonch in 
Bundelcund; but the British government engaged, if his conduct proved con- 
ciliatory, to bestow it as a jaghire on Holcar’s daughter, Bheema Bhye. On 
the 22d of February, 1806, by a declaratory article, Tonk, Rampoora, and other 
tracts to the north of the Boondee hills, were restored to him ; so that at the 
condusion, although one of the bitterest enemies of the British cause, his loss 
was triffing compared widt what others sustained, who had lei^ seriously 



748 THE PROVINCE. [tirooBZ 

Having thus advantageously extricated himsdf from a most critical ritiudion, 
he appears to have ^laxed very much from his military habits, and ere long 
exhibited symptoms of occasitmal mental derangement. Erom this he was 
roused in 1808, by a rebellion which broke out against him under pretence 
of supporting the pretensions- of Casi Row Holcar, and gained such strengtii 
thdt the insurgents obtained possession of all Holcar's territories in the province 
of Khandesh, (except Jalua,) including the important fortress of Cl^dore. 
They subsequently advanced to the frontiers of the Nizam’s dominions, with 
the view of attacking the district of Amber, a small section of country belonging 
to Holcar, but entirely surrounded by the dominions of the Nizam. The appre- 
hensions of the efforts of this party, it, is supposed, influenced Jeswunt Rohr 
Holcar to compass the death of Casi Row, and thereby remove the ostensible 
standard of opposition to his authority. This atrocity, however^ only added 
vigour to the insurrection, which was not so much connected with the assassinated 
prince, as originating in the personal wrongs of the chiefs who conducted it.\ 
Having plundered and desolated a great part of Holcar’s possessions, and even 
those of Sindia between Nerbudda and Tuptee, they proceeded to commit de- 
predations on the territories of the Peshwa and Nizam, alleging necessity as their 
excuse. This convenient palliative not being considered satisfactory, a portion 
of the Poona and Hyderabad subsidiary forces were put in motion under the . 
command of Colonels Doveton and Wallace, which having surprised several of 
their wandering bands, expelled the whole with great loss from the territories of 
the allies. 

The habitual insanity of Jeswunt Row continuing to gain ground, his ministers 
in 1809 intimated to the British government a request, that their prince might 
be allowed to visit the idol at Jejoory in the Peshwa’s dominions, in hopes that he 
might thereby get cured of the intellectual malady under which he laboured, 
but a compliance with this proposal was for obvious reasons declined, and his 
bodily infirmities being aggravated by those of his mind, he at length closed 
his eventful, and not very creditable, life on the 27th of October, 1811. His 
son and successor Mulhar Row Holcar was quietly seated on the throne on the 
7th of the ensuing month, but being a minor, the administration of affairs was 
continued under the management of Toolsee Bhye, his mother, and Balaram 
Seth, the same as during the incapacity of his father. The influence, however, 
of Meer Khan, whenever he chose to exert it, was dominant, a gref^ prcpmrtkm 
of the late Holmtr’s troops having^^ttached then^lves to him ; but the necessity 
of ptovidmg for their pay and subaistmme re^er^ it imposuUe for hua to 
continnijilang sfrditmary, ahil of course omrioni^ his frequent absemm frmn 
head qauters. Ihiring one of these aecessiona, Tocdsee INiye, the qaeeq 



OFMALWAH. , 749 

witli }»er ton were driven by the outrageous conduct of the troops to seek shelter 
with tlie Ri^a of Kotah, but her party having subsequently gained the ascendant, 
•he returned, and is reported to have revenged her injuries with great cruelty. 
On the accession of Mulhar Row, the youi^ prince, his ministers urgently soli-' 
cited the sanction of the British government to the grant of a khelaut, or dress 
of investiture, both from the Peshwa and the king of Delhi ; but they were 
informed that the British government did not assume to itself the privilege of 
confirmation, which is likewise denied both to the Peshwa and to the sovereign 
of Delhi. They were told that it recognized the state of Holcar as an indepen<- 
dent power, and consequently did not admit the necessity of any form of public 
acknowledgment of Mulhar Row’s title to the throne, which would indicate a 
subserviency on his part that did not in the slightest degree exist. 

After the intellectual derangement of Jeswunt Row Holcar, and more espe* 
daily subsequent to his death, the power he had raised by his crimes, and main- 
tained by his abilities, was fast crumbling to pieces, and its total destruction by 
the increasing strength of the predatory associations impending. Although 
some of the chief Pindarics held large jaghires from Holcar’s government, they 
acted so independently of it that they were considered to have withdrawn them- 
sdveb from it,, and the queen regent, Toolsee Bhye, expressed great pleasure at 
at the prospect of their chastisement. This lady finding herself unable to con- 
troul the insolence of the Sirdars, had sent an envoy privately to solicit, that 
young Holcar and his state might be taken under the protection of the British 
government, which overture was kindly received, and no burthensome condition 
imposed, except reciprocal support to put down all predatory banditti. While 
these arrangements were in progress, all of a sudden the vakeel was recalled, the 
different chiefs with their respective troops were summoned with the utmost 
speed, and the determination of marching to assist the Peshwa against the 
British government proclaimed. Negotiations with the leaders of Holcar’s 
army were then attempted, but these were mistaken for symptoms of weakness, 
and Toolsee Bhye, the queen regent, who wished to withdraw from the preci- 
pice, was carried down to the banks of the Sipra, and there publicly put to 
death the evening before the battle of Maheidpoor. 

On the 17th of December, 1817, the hostile spirit of these ferocious Patan 
chiefs openly assumed the predominance, attacks were made on the ritish 
forag^ parties, and all attempts at an amicable adjustment having failed, Sir 
Thomas Hidop’s army attacked that of Holcar at Maheidpoor, and after suffering 
much slaughter from the latter’s artillery, succeeded in capturing the guns, after 
which the infontry gave way and retreated, pursued.by Sir John Malcolm with 
the legulir cavdhy and Myioie h(Hie. A treaty of peace vdth Mulhar Row 



750 THE PROVINCE fiiTDosE. 

Hol6ar was soon afterwards (on the 6th of January, 1818,) coneluded lit Mnn- 
desBor by Sir John Malcolm, and a federal alliance entered into. Prior to this 
event, th^ possessions of the Holcar in their then deteriorated state, and exclu- 
sive of a few half collections, such as those of Petlawad and Doongurpoor, 
were as follows : 

* North of the Nerbudda. South of the Nerbudda. 


Boondee 

Rupees. 

125,000 

Khurgong Butterie . . 

Rupees. 

40,000 

Malwah 

512,000 

Mogulanee and Sheogong 

20,000 

Bhanpoora 

222,000 

Rumair 

20,000 

Narrainghur 

60,000 

Talnere 

25,000 

GhufFdor Khan's jaidad . 

381,000 

Nunderbar Sultanpoor . 

70,000 

About the city of Indore . 

395,000 

Aynarrain 

5,000 

Nursinghur and Maheishur 

85,000 

Galna 

15,000 

Total 
Brought over 

1,780,250 

392,000 

Chandore 

Sheogong 

Nuggursool .... 

80,000 

40,000 

5,000 

Grand total 

2,172,250 

Allawur 

10,000 


Sandeagong .... 

8,000 


Dhongwar (near Chandore) 20,000 
I^mhur . . ... 60,000 

Total 392,000 

The exertions made by Holcar in the short war of 1817, shewed the dangerous 
impolicy of leaving that state in a condition to be ever again troublesome, on 
which account it was dismembered of two thirds of its territory; and the greater 
portion of the lands thus abstracted, transferred to the Rajas ofKotah, Boondee, 
and other Rajpoot chiefs, whom it was desirable to strengthen, while a portion 
was also retained to defray the expense of the troops required for tlie protection 
of that quarter. Of the first description were the four pergunnahs of Puchpahar, 
Deeg, Gungrar, and Ahoor, which had been for some years rented from Holcar 
by 2alim Singh, and were now conferred on him in perpetuity as a recompense 
for his friendly conduct. 

By the treaty of Mundessor, Holcar renounced his claim on all territories, 
such as Rampoora, Bussunt, Rajapoora, Balbaeeah, Neemserai, Inderghur, Boon- 
dee, Lakharee,.Samendah, Bamengttim, and other places within and north of 
the Boondee hills. To the Btiti^h government he ceded his claims and territo- 
ries (^every description within and without the Sa^nHwta range of hills, mcludil^ 
the finrt of Sindwa with, a glacis of 2000 yard.s ; also aB his possessions m Ube 



OF MALWAH. 


M800AH.] 


751 


province of Khandeah, and those districts, such as Amber, Ellore and otiiers, 
intennhced with the dominions of the Nizam and Peshwa. And finally, Holcar 
agreed to cede to the Briti^ government all claims of tribute from any of the 
Rajpoot princes, such as the Rajas of Odeypoor, Jeypoor, Joodpoor, Kotah, 
Boondee, and Karoulee. In consideration of these cessions, the British govern* 
ment bound itself to maintain a fixed force, to preserve frie internal tranquillity 
of Holcar's territories, and defend friem from foreign aggressors, this detachment 
to receive every support from Holcar’s government, which was bound to supply 
when called on a contingent of 3000 auxiliary horse, and to refer all foreign dis- 
putes to the arbitration of the Brirish government. It was agreed that Ameer 
Khan should retain all his territories, and that Ghuffoor Khan should receive an 
hereditary jaghire, it not being then known that he was suspected of being the 
principal inst^^tor of the murder of Toolsee Bhye. 

Immediately on the conclusion of the above treaty, Mulhar Row Holcar, a boy 
about 12 years of age, accompanied by his principal chiefs, came into the 
British camp, when Tanteea Jogh, as prime minister, was vested with the 
principal management of affairs. At present there served territories of Holcar 
consist of the following portions : 

Square miles. 

Extending along the southern bank of the Nerbudda about . 1,800 


Along the the north bank of ditto 4,800 

In different detached portions 4,900 


Total 11,500 

The young chief is understood to have abandoneu tue habit of always residing in 
camp, and to have fixed his residence at Indore, the ancient capital, and though 
by the course of recent events the state has fallen in power, the individual now 
on the throne has certainly benefitted. His turbulent and mutinous army has 
either been killed, dispersed, or paid off ; and the territories left, though small, 
are fertile, yielding even now about 25 lacks of rupees, and have long been the 
only ones from which any revenue was realized without the employment of an 
army. 

Travelling distance from Bombay 456 miles; from Nagpoor 371, and from 
Calcutta 1030 (Treaties, The Marquis of Wellesley, Public MS. Documents, 

The Marquis of Hastings, Prinsep, Sir John Malcolm, Tod, Collins, The Duke of 
WeUington, 

Jabcoah.— -A town and petty state in the province of Malwah, 80 miles 
W. S, W. from the city of Oojein. Lat. 22° 46' N. long. 74° 39' E. This is 
sitiiittod in a rmnarkaldy wild tract of country, inhabited mostly by Bbeels ^ 
otiier jung^ tribes ; but in 1818, it was posseoed by some Arab Jemadars, who 



752 THE PROVINCE (aixt mohcit. 

were expelled by Sir John Malcolm. In 1819, after the arraanementa with Jn- 
booah, Doongurpoor, and Banswarah had been completed, all Bie trot^ were 
withdrawn from these places, it being of importance that their clue& should act 
undisturbed by the too zealous interference of their allies, which tends to para- 
lyze their individual efforts. The consciousness that British power and vigiWie 
impend over them, is sufficient to prevent the perpetration of any very great ex- 
cesses, and in the existing state of society throughout this quarter of Malwah, 
the administration of the internal police may be advantageously left to their own 
conducting . — (' Sir John Malcolm, 8^c, Sgc.) 

Amjerah. — A. town in the province of Malwah, 66 miles S. W. from Oojein. 
Lat. 22® 38' N. long. 76® Ky E. Amjerah, with the lands attached, belongs to 
Dowlet Row Sindia, and in 1818 presented a singular anomaly in politics. The 
lord paramount was without tribute, the tributary without revenue, the soldiem 
without pay, and the inhabitants without protection, in short, the very elements 
of government were wanting. But the reverence felt by the natives for ancient\ 
institutions, their attachment to families, the prejudices of caste, and the power 
of habit, in India give such adhesion to village and 'provincial communities as 
apparently to render them almost indestructible . — (Sir John Malcolm, ^c,) 

Dhar. — An ancient town in the province of Malwah, 51 miles S. S. W. from 
Oojein. Lat. 22® 38' N. long. 75^ 19' E. The historical notices of the kings of, 
Dhar are examined by Major Wilford and Mr. Bentley in the 8th and 9th volumes 
of the Asiatic Researches. In 1819, after the Pindary war, Meena Bhye, the 
regent princess of Dhar, expressed the utmost gratitude to Sir John Malcolm, 
for the generosity with which her son had been treated by the British govern- 
ment, declaring she should at fast experience repose, to which her life had 
hitherto been a stranger. 

Dectan. — ^A town in the Malwah province, 46 miles S. S. W. from Oojein. 
Lat. 22® 36' N. long. 75® 30' E. 

Ally Mohun. — A petty state in tiie south-western comer of Malwah, which 
appears to be composed of two towns with their lands attached, the first (Ally) 
situated 22 miles S. W. from Mohun, wMch stands in latittRie 22® 6' N. ^oi^. 
74® 18' E. The jungles of Ally and Mohun, although they may be entered, are 
vmry difficult to penetrate, on account of the badness of the road and scarcity 
of water. They are extremely wild, thinly inhabited, and formerly were con- 
mdeted one of the defences to the con^;uou8 province of Gujerat. 

In 1818, Ally Mohun was. possessed by Muzaffer, a Mekrany usurper, who 
was oompdled to submit by Sir Jhbn lilaleolm, and to tnrow huasdf on the 
mmoy of the Britub fovmxmient He was in cmiseqaestoe confirmed in the 
this ^stty state, it being essentia! to thegradiial u^todnetion 



OP MALWAH. 


UBtrtBVOB’.] 


753 


of the pacific syttemt sot to chuige what was capable of reform, and to disturb 
existing^ authorities as little as possible. Besides these general considerations 
against the removal of a man whose power had been long established, and who 
was both feared and respected in a country chiefly inhabited by robbers. Muz* 
afibr himself appeared an excellent instrument of reform, as weU on account of 
h» personal talents, as from the influence he possessed over his countrymen, the 
Mekrstnies, and the other foreign mercenaries in Malwah. The territory of Ally 
Mofaun has long been a noted route for the commercial intercourse carried on be- 
tween Gujerat and Malwah. In 1819, the road duties were made over to the 
petty state of Dhar, and a reduction was contemplated ; but the minister of 
Dhar (Raghoonauth Row) declared, that the regulation of the rates might with 
great safety be left to the state that levied them, for since the restoration of tran- 
quillity so many routes to Gujerat were opened, that the least injustice or extor- 
tion would cause that of Dhar to be wholly abandoned . — (&r John Malcolm, 
Bum, 8 ^ 0 .) 

Mondoo (Maidu ). — A mountsunous district in the province of Malwah, 
bounded on the south by the Nerbudda river. By Abul Fazel in 1582, it is 
described as follows ; “ Circar Mendow, containing 16 mahals ; measurement 
229,969 begahs; revenue 13,788,994 dams; seyurghal 127,732 dams. This cir- 
car furnishes 1180 cavalry, and 10,626 infantry.” Although this district formerly 
contained the capital of the province, it is at present one of the wildest tracts in 
H jniloBtnn, and, although nominally subject to the Maharattas, has in fact for 
many years been possessed by tlie Bheels and other half civilized independent 
tribes. The principal towns are Mundoo, Baug, and Mheyshwur. 

Mondoo. — ^The chief town of the preceding district to which it has communi- 
cated its name. Lat. 22® 23' N. long. 75" 2(f E. 65 miles S. S. W. from Oojein. 
This city is now much decayed, but was formerly the capital of the KMllijee 
Patan sovere^s of Malwah, and, in 1582, is described by Abul Fazel as a city 
of prodigious extent, 22 miles in circuit, and then containing numerous monu. 
ments of ancient magnificence. In 1615, when visited by Sir Thomas Roe, it was 
greatly dilapidated, and its grandeur had disappeared. It then occupied the top 
of a very high and extensive mountain . — ( Abul Fazel, Rennetl, Scott, Sgc.) 

Bamvoob.— A town in the Malwah province, 55 miles S. S. £. from the city 
Of Ofljem. Lat. 22® 40' N. long. 78" 6' E. 

Kotba,— 'A town m the Malwah province, situated on tiie north bank of the 
Nerirnddin, 86 Tnilwi S. S. W. from Oojein. Lat. 22® 10' N. long. 74® 66' E. 

Matwaub. — ^Atown in the Malwah province, 85 miles E. N. E. from Broach. 
Ut,22®4'N. tong. 74'- 32' E. 

MainrsHWCB (Mahedi AiuroJ.— TIus town stands on the banks of the JNer- 

ifot. I. 6 D 



754 THF PROVINCE [uissnit. 

budda, and is a noted station selected by armies marchinif nor^ Dr soatb tot 
crossing that river. It is also named Ghooly Mheyshwur. Lat. 2^ 8' N. long. 
76® 32' E. 76 miles S. by W. from Oojein. 

Bauo. — town in tbe province of Malwah, 80 miles S. W. from the city 
of Oojein. Lat. 22” 26' N. long. 74® 54' E. In this neighbourhood several cave 
temples have been discovered, the architectural decorations of which ate said to 
be of a superior description. 

Bulea. — town in the piiovince of Malwah, 61 miles N. by E. from the city 
of Oojein. Lat. 23® 63' N. long. 76® 6' E. 

Auggue. — ^A town in the Malwah province, 42 miles N. by E. from the city 
of Oojein. Lat. 23® 45' N. long. 76® 5' E. To the north of this town, which,' is 
subject to Sindia, is a fine lake. ( 

Sarangpooe (Surangapura). — ^A laige district in the province of Malwan, 
situated between the 23d and 24th degrees of north latitude. The town of 
rangpoor is situated in lat. 23® 36' N. long. 76® 30' E. 48 miles N. N. E. fron^ 
the city of Oojein. The other principal towns are Bensrode and Shujawulpoor. 
and the whole were recently possessed by Kurreem Khan the Pindary. 

Bensrode. — A town in the province of Malwah, 61 miles E. N. E. from 
Oojein. Lat. 23® 25' N. long. 76® 37 E. 

Shujawulpoor — ^This is a large town situated on the north- ' 

east bank of the river Jummary, and contains a fort or walled town, on the out- 
side of which is a good bazar, where there are many well built houses. Opium 
of a tolerably good quality is cultivated to some extent in the vicinity, and the 
town is a considerable market for striped muslins, doputtahs, &c. Lat. 23® 
24' N. long. 76® 44' E. 60 miles E. by N. from Oojein. Until the Pindary war, 
the Vinchoor Cur, (one of the Peshwa’s functionaries), had large possessions in 
the neighbourhood of Shujawulpoor and Ashta, which Sindia’s commanders were 
in the ordinary habit of plundering. After the peace of 1818, a portion of this 
pergunnah was transferred to the Nabob of Bopaul, as a reward for services 
rendered. 

Ashta. — A town in the Malwah province, 59 miles E. by S. from the city of 
Oojein. Lat. 23® 3' N. long. 76® 46' E. This vicinity was formerly the head 
quarters of Cheetoo the Pindary; but after the suppression of these depredators 
was conferred on the Nabob of Bopaul. 

Dewree. — ^A town in the Malwah province, 35 miles S. W. firom Bopaul. 
Lat. 22® 68' N. long. 77® 6' E. ^ ' 

Raisseen. — A large district in the province of Malwah, of vrhich it bocii^ies 
the south western quarter, wbitfe it is separated from the Deccau by tile Ner- 
buddariver, aadlhe hills extending along ite northerii bank. It is oiw the 



OF MALWAH. 755 

origii^ Mogul mbdivinons of Malwah, and is mentioned by Abul Fazel, as 
containing 32 mahals ; but for many years past it can scarcely be said to have 
beta subordinate to any regular government, having become a favourite haunt 
of the Pindaries, from viiienoe they infested the surrounding countries, until 
extirpated in 1818. 

Raissexn.-'A town and hill fort in the province of Malwah, the capital of 
the district, but now greatly decayed, Lat. 23* 31' N. long. 77® 52' E. 23 miles 
N. E. from Bopaul. The country from hence to the Nerbudda is remarkably 
wild and mountainous, but the hills are not so precipitous as those to the south. 

Cheevaneer.— A town in the Malwah province, situated on the north bank 
of the Nerbudda, 52 miles S. by W. from Bopaul Lat. 22® 33' N. long. 77® 
20 E. 

Neuawur. h. town in the Malwah province, situated on the north hanlr of 
the Nerbudda, almost opposite to Hindia. Lat. 22® 29' N. long. 77® 5' E. The 
Dussera of 1815 was celebrated at Cheetoo’s cantonments at Nemawur, by a 
greater concourse of Pindarics than had ever before been assembled at one 
place, and preparation was evidently making for an expedition of more than 
ordinary importance. A short time afterwards, immense detachments from 
hence crossed the Nerbudda, pursuing a southemly course, and after ravaging 
the Deccan, returned to the same place with immense booty, and comparatively 
little damage. 

Chtxpoorbaeee,— A town in the Malwah province, 48 miles E. by S. from 
Bopaul. Lat. 23® 2' long. 78® 15' E, 

CiiOKEEOHUR.— A town in the province of Malwah, miles E, by S. from 
Bopaul. Lat. 23® 5' N. long, 78® 16' E. 

Bopaul (Bkupala, a king). — ^The capital of a small independent state in the 
province of Malwah, 100 miles E, from Oojein. Lat. 23® 17' N. long. 77* 31' E. In 
1790, this was an extensive place surrounded by a stone wall, on the outside of 
which was a large gunge or mart, with wide and straight streets, but it has since 
suffered so much, that in 1817, it presented a very ruinous appearance. On a 
rising round to the S. W. on the outside of the town, is a fort called Futteh^ur, 
built on a solid rock. It has a stone wall with square towers, but in 1790 had 
no ditch. To the south-west under the walls of this fort is a very extensive tnnir 
or pond, formed by an embankment at the confluence of five streams issuing 
from the neighbouring lulls. The tank is about six miles in length. The hills in 
^ naghbourhood consist of a soft free stone, and a reddish granite, from which 
ise^ the small river Patarah ; and the Betwa also has its source in the vicinity. 
The teniteiy belonging to tlus small principality is of an uneven surfrme, diffi- 

5i>2 



756 THE PROVINCE 

cult acc&u, and much covered with joogle, on which account, it has for many 
yea» {ust been selected as a place of refuge by banditti of all desmiptimui, 
and latterly, was the very centre of the Pindary influence. The soil, especially 
i n the vallies, is naturally fertile, and particularly well adapted for the production 
of cotton ; but on account of the hordes of depredators by which it has been, 
infested, the cultivation has for many years been confined to the immediate vi> 
cinity of the fortified places, some of which are very strong from their adwn- 
tageous positions. 

The town and territory of Bopaul are occupied by a colony of Patans, to 
whom they were assigned by Aurengzebe. In 1790, its revenue was estimated 
at ten lacks of rupees, but the many disasters it since sustained have greatly lie* 
duced it, especially the effect of the long siege sustained by the Nabob Vizier 
Mahommed against the united forces of the Nagpoor Raja and Dowlet Row 
Sindia, the first of whom had some years before seized on Hosseinabad and some 
other tracts in that quarter. In 1809, the court of Nagpoor solicited the assist^i 
ance of the British government, in subduing the country of Bopaul, the chief of 
which, either from terror or inclination, then appeared to ftivour the operations 
of the Pindarics. But although adverse to the maxims of British policy to con- 
federate, in any scheme of conquest, the Nabob was informed, thit if, after the 
lenity shewn to him, when the army under Sir Barry Close was in the field, he 
should again unite with the Pindarics in violating the territories of the Nag- 
poor Raja, it would then become a measure of justice and expediency to place 
an effectual check on his future proceedings. In 1812, Bopaul made a long and 
successful defence against the combined forces of the two Maharatta chiefs above 
mentioned, which gained the reigning nabob. Vizier Mahomiped, considerable 
celebrity. In the urgency of his distress, he earnestly solicited the protection of 
the British government ; but all interference was declined, on the principle of not 
interfering with the political concerns of independent ‘States, not in alliance or 
connection with the British government. 

So harsh a reply was not merited by a family which still possesses the strong- 
est testimonials from General Goddard of the important services he received 
from the existing Nabob of Bopaul, to whose exertions the success of that offi- 
cer s extraordinary march is in a great measure to he attributed. Besides Ibis, 
the Bopaul state had maintained its independence against the most active ef- 
forts of the Maharattas, and its position between the lerritorieB of Nagj^r and 
those of Sindia presented an obs^le to the consolidation of the Maharatta 
power in that part of India. BewS apparently abandoned to its fote, in 1814 it 
was harder pressed then ever by the combined forces of Sindia and the Nagpoor 
Raja, and was on the eve being subdued, so that no time was to be lost if the 



MitsAH.] OF MALWAH. 757 

Briti^ government intended to preserve it from destruction. This was at length 
determined on when the Pindarry power had attained its acm^ ; and the young 
Nabob of Bopaul accepted with eagerness the terms offered to his father, Vizier 
Mahommed, who had died on the 17th March, 1816. During the subsequent 
operations he cheerfully furnished his contingent, and was rewarded by the ac- 
quisition of the five districts of Ashta, Ichawur, &c. along with some other lands 
from the Vinchoor Cur’s forfeited jaghire, the whole of which had been recently 
held by the Pindaries. A portion of Shujawulpoor was subsequently added, 
and Islamnagur was obtained for this chief from Sindia by negotiation. The 
definitive engagement, which fixed in perpetuity the relations of the nabob, was 
concluded on the 26th January, 1818, and by the conditions of it he is only 
bound to furnish GOO horse, and 400 foot. He was also liberated from the pay- 
ment ot all tribute, so that his terms have been particularly favourable. — (Prin~ 
sej>, Public MS. Documents, Hunter, 8^c. S^c.) 

Islamnagur. — A town and pergunnah in the province of Malwah, which, 
although only 6 miles north from the city of Bopaul, belonged to Sindia, but in 
1818, through the mediation of the British government, were procured by ex- 
change for the Nabob of Bopaul. Lat. 23*21' N. long. 77® 31' E. 

Seeore. — A town in the Malwah province, 22 miles W. by S. from Bopaul. 
Lat. 23® 16' N. long. 77“ 10' E. This place stands on the banks of the little river 
Roota Seein, and is surrounded by a large grove of mangoe and other trees. 
The soil adjacent is a black mould, but not much cultivated. Here is a consider- 
able manufactory of checked and striped muslins. — ( Hunter, 8^c.) 

Ichawur. — A town in the province of Malwah, transferred with the pergun- 
nah attached to the Nabob of Bopaul, after the conclusion of the Pindary w'ar. 
Lat. 23® 2' N. long. 77“ 7' E. 32 miles S. W. from Bopaul. 

Doorvau. — A town in the province of Malwah, 21 miles N. W. from Bopaul. 
Ut.23“24'N. long. 77® 15' E. 

Burseah. — ^This place, in 1817, was the principal cantonment of Kurreem 
Khan, the Pindary, yet when visited by the British detachment in pursuit of 
him, the country was found well cultivated and flourishing, provisions cheap, and 
flour selling at 60 seers for the rupee, a condition not to have been expected in 
ft Pindary domain. The -surrounding country is naturally productive and well 
supplied with wood and water. The town consists of numerous well built 
houses, good streets, and an excellent bazar. Lat. 23® 38' N. long. 77® SO' £. 
26 miles N. firom Bopaul. 

Sohata . — k town in the provmce of Malwah, 30 miles N. from Bopaul. Lat. 
M*^N.loiig 7r32'E. 

Biuah (S^bem ), — ^A townbelongii^ to Dowlet Row Sindia, situated on the 



758 THE PROVINCE [«auoo*. 

Betwa river, 32 miles N. E. from Bopaul. Lat. 23^ 33' N. Icn^. 77“ 55' E. Hie 
town or fort of Bilsah is enclosed with a stone wall, furnished with square tow- 
ers and a ditch. The suburbs without the walls are not very extensive, but the 
streets are spacious, and contain some good houses. This place is situated nearly 
on the southern extremity of the district, where it is contiguous to that of Bo- 
paul. The town and surrounding country is celebrated all over India, for the 
excellent . quality of the tobacco, which is bought up with great eagerness, and 
exported. The country is open, and in 1790, was well cultivated. To the east- 
ward of the town, at the distance of six furlongs, is a high and steep rock, on 
the top of which is a durgah, consecrated to the memory of a Mahommedan 
saint named Jelal ud Been Bhokari. Bilsah w'as first conquered by the Mahbm- 
medans about A. D. 1230, and again in 1292. Travelling distance from Ooiein 
140 miles; from Nagpoor 249; from Benares 416; and from Calcutta, ^by 
Mundlah 867 miles. — ( Hunter, Ferishta, Rennetl, ^c.) \ 

Andia. — A town in the province of Malwah, 45 miles N. N. E. from Bopai^. 
Lat. 23“ 46' N. long. 78® E. . 

Bhamonek. — A fortified town in the province of Malwdh, 92 miles N. E. from 
Bopaul. Lat. 23“ 57' N. long. 78“ 46' E. This place formerly belonged to the 
Raja of Nagpoor ; but lying to the north of the Nerbudda, had been ceded in 
1818 by Appa Saheb. The governor and garrison, however, (probably owing 
to secret instructions) refused to comply, and the place was in consequence 
invested by the army under General Marshall, and batteries having been raised 
within breaching distance, the garrison surrendered on the 24th of March, 1818. 

Saugor (Sagara ). — A town in the province of Malwah, 74 miles E. S.E. 
from Seronge. Lat. 23° 48' N. long. 78“ 47' E. This place was very little 
known although so near to the British frontier in Bundelcund, until taken pos- 
session of by the detachment under General Marshall in 1818, when it was 
discovered to be of considerable magnitude, and exhibited every appearance of 
an opulent and flourishing city, although situated in the heart of the Pindary 
country. Saugor was originally ceded by the Peshwa, at the treaty of Poona, 
the manager of it, Benaick Row, having given shelter to the Pindaries, and 
openly suffered levies to be made in the town for the Raja of Nagpoor. It 
surrendered without resistance ; and soon after, all the hill forts and strongholds 
dependent on it. 16 in number, were given up without firing a shot; and the 
inhabitants in general appeared entirely satisfied widi the change. By taking 
actual p<»8ession of Saugor, the^curity of the adjacent p^uts was not only 
increased, but, by superior management, the hereditary Jagbiredar, (Nana 6o- 
vii^ Row, Galpee,) received three times the sum ever before reafized by him 
from the rente, the past receipts of this territory have been estunated at 



wirpABiES.] OF MALWAH. 759 

698,000 mpees ; out of which certain portiom are to be paid to NanaGovind 
Row and Benaick Row ; although the latter had forfeited his claim by his re- 
fractory conduct. The entire occupation of this strong country has rendered 
it necessary to station part of the military force required to overawe central 
Hindostan within the limits of the Saugor district.— Marquis of Hayings, 
Prinsep, Public Journals^ 8sc.) 

Ratouk.— A town in the Maiwah province, 75 miles N. E. by N. from Bo- 
paul. Ut. 23* 51' N. long. 78* 31' E. 

Salemow. — k town in the province of Maiwah, 77 miles £. from Bopaul. 
Lat. 23“ 23' N. long. 78“ 43' E. 

Pi ND ABIES. — ^T he banditti so well known by their predatory incursions 
under the name of Pindarics, at first chiefly occupied that portion of the Maiwah 
province in the vicinity of Nemawur, Kantapoor, Goonas, Beresha, and part of 
the Bilsah and Bopaul territories ; but in process of time extended themselves 
towards the centre, and would ere long have absorbed the whole. The desig- 
nation of Pbdary was first applied to a body of roving cavalry which accom- 
panied the Peshwa’s armies in their expeditions, and it is impossible not to be 
struck with the resemblance which Pindara bears in sound to Pandour, as 
Cozauk does to Cossack. When the Peshwn ceased to interfere practically with 
Hindostan north of the Nerbudda, leaving that division of the Maharatta empire 
to Sindia and Holcar, the Pindarics split into two factions, assuming the names 
of Sindia Shahee and Holcar Shahee respectively, accordingly as they attached 
themselves to the fiunilies, or rather to the fortunes of these chiefs. 

With respect to their composition, the Pindaries were principally, and the 
leaders wholly, of the Mahommedan Veligion, but all castes were allowed to 
associate with them. Remnants of foreign wars, and the refuse of a disbanded 
soldiery, they constituted a nucleus round which might assemble all that was 
vagabond and disaffected, all that was incapable of honest industry and peace- 
ful occupation, and all that was opposed in habit and interest to the peace of 
Hindostan. Like the early Maharattas, they systematically prosecuted a war 
of plunder and devastation on all their neighbours : and in recent times were 
gradually obtaining the substantiality of oipmized states ; their progress being 
asmted by the daily augmenting weakness of the surrounding powers, and their 
inability to coerce their own dominions. Among themselves they lived in so- 
cieties of one or two hundred, governed by the individual who had the most 
personal influence. These inferior chiefs were called Mhorladar, or Thokdar,. 
from Mborla and Thok, the names of the party when united. TTie aggregate 
body was named Tull; detached parties, Cozauks; the main body, Lubbur; 
imd i^moipal leader, Lubbrea. 



760 THE PEOYWCE [nxsAuss. 

When an enterprising leader had determined on a ]dimd«ring expeditimi, he 
sent messengers to the neighbounng Thokdars to miga^ their co-^ral»m» and 
reconcile their animosities, and also to fix on a period for their aeiemUmg. ha 
general, the leader had no hereditary cltdms, his influence depmiding <m the 
popular opinion of his activity and military talents, as he possessed no power 
to enforce obedience, or to chastise refractory conduct ; the sole attraction to 
his standard being the hope of plunder. This precarious attachment, however, 
changed to an absolute submission, when the party had advanced far into an 
enemy’s country, their chance of escape and eventual return greatly depending 
on their implicit obedience to his orders. When ready to start, the Lubbrea, or 
leader, mounted his horse, and going to some distance, sounded his trumpet, 
and mustered his followers. They then advanced, the leader in front, with his 
standard and trumpets, the rest following without order or regularity. Whey 
usually commenced their march about day break, and continued in motion \intil 
mid-day, when they halted for two or three hours, and again moved forward, 
stopping to refresh at sunset. At nine at night they changed their ground, and 
again at 12, (each halt being called a tull) removing four or five miles each time, 
and occasionally they made a third change of position. Their longest marches 
seldmn exceeded 30 miles per day ; their most usual only eight or 10 ; but from 
the extended manner in which they advanced, they covered an immense space 
of ground. 

In a dark night they kept together by calling to each other as they rode 
along, and when the Lubbrea changed his ground he sounded his trumpet, and 
the word passed from one to the other, so that although there was much confu- 
sion, they were seldom so much dispersed as to be unable to re-assemble. If 
attacked they gallopped off in all directions, trusting to chance for again uniting. 
The cozauks, headed by some resolute men, detached themselves in parties of 
from 10 to 20, and scoured the country for 10 or 12 miles in front, and on the 
flanks of the main body. Should the tull be dispersed by defeat, or accident, 
the leif4er’s trumpet is sounded ; but as many might happen to be too remote 
to hear the summons, he usually sets fire to a stack of straw, or some stubble, 
to indicate the spot where he was posted. When arrived at a halting place, the 
Lubbrea dismounted and fixed his standard, beyond which every Pindary 
passed, leaving tiie leader in the rear. The men of each thok kept close to- 
gether, being generally the friends relations or dependants of the Thokdar. No 
guards were set, the Lubbrea h^g expected to watch for the bendit of the 
wh<fle. In the day time the} took off the saddles from the horses, bat never 
tiBfiadcUed fom during the night, sleeping witii the bridle in tiieir band. Their 
lmaeawmg«ieri%aaiaaUhaidy breed, mostly iMdlklttah^ botiM^m 



PiNDAKiEs.] OF MALWAH. 76 1 

more than half of a corps were well mounted. They were all excellent riders, 
although they underwent no training either in horsemanship or in the use of 
arms. The latter consisted of the sword and spear, for although sensible of the 
superiority of fire-arms, very few carried them on account of their weight and 
incumbrance. It is a commonly received notion, that the Pindaries gave their 
horses large quantities of opium to enable them to support the incessant fatigue 
to which they were subjected, but this narcoric was only resorted to in extreme 
cases, after a very harrassing march. In their retreats, these wretched animals 
were commonly much overladen, having besides their rider and his arms, a con- 
siderable quantity of cloths, brass pots, and other plunder to carry. 

Their information respecting the country towards which they were going, 
was in general, but not always, very defective; and spies they seldom em- 
ployed. As they advanced, the chance of plunder was the first inquiry, and 
the next what troops and fire-arms they were likely to encounter. They pil- 
laged every place of which they could obtain possession, but were easily to be 
beaten off by fire-arms, and generally gave up the attack after one or two 
casualties. As soon as they got into a town or village, each man seized such 
of the inhabitants as fell in his way, and by threats, or torture, compelled them 
to disclose their hidden treasure, if they had any ; no regard being paid to age 
or sex. There was no regular division of the plunder, each retaining what he 
could procure ; but as some persons must always remain outside to hold the 
horses, a proportion was reserved for them. As may be supposed, many 
quarrels arose about the distribution of the plundef, which were usually re- 
ferred to the Lubbrea for adjustment, and a small tax on each formed his chief 
source of emolument. While advancing and free from apprehension, they 
covered the face of the country, but during their retreats it was their practice 
to march much more compactly. Plunder, and not glory, being their object, 
they carefully evaded all attempts to bring them to action ; and when retreat- 
ing, their endeavours were all directed to escape undiscovered. In these cases, 
when pursued, they seldom at first took the road they ultimately intended to 
follow, winding and doubling across the country, making more frequent marches 
and halts than they were accustomed to do, and confounding their pursuers by 
their incessant change of place. When they thought they had sufiiciently 
misled their enemies, they suddenly changed their route, and hurried on with 
increased speed until out of danger. In this manner these bands of plunderers 
undertook long joumies of two or three months, over a vast space of hostile 
country, through the midst of armies,, whose incontestible superiority they 
knew from dire experience^, yet, in 1816, it was rather owing to good fortune 
vdi. r. 5 E 



762 THE PROVINCE [pikjjarxes 

and relaxation on the part of the enemy, that two of their most numerous corps 
were overtaken and punished by Majors Macdowal and Lushington. 

The early appearance of the Pindaries in the Peshwa’s armies has been 
already mentioned; but it was not until 1794 that they became tangible, lands 
•in that year having been assigned by Madhajee Sindia to their principal lead- 
ers in the valley of the Nerbudda, and among the hills which bound it to the 
north. From the date above mentioned u)xtil A. D. 1800, their principal leaders 
were two brothers named Heeroo and Burrun, whose standards were erected 
when the rivers became fordable • Out of the prohts of their plundering excur- 
sions these chiefs were from the lirst enabled to keep together a large military 
force, without much territorial revenue; but in process of time, by additiontd 
assignments of land, and conquests achieved from the Grassias or ab^ginal 
chieftains among the mountains of the Nerbudda, they gradually ex^nded 
their territorial influence and consolidated their authority. About A. D. '^800, 
the two chiefs, Heeroo and Bumin, either died or were put to death ; the one 
at Nagpoor, and the other at Aseerghur. Dost and Wausil Mahommed were the 
sons of the first; the two Runjuns of the last; but the pre-eminence descended 
to Kurreem Khan, and other chiefs of superior enterprize. Kurreem Khan, 
during the confusion of the Maharatta empire consequent to the war with the 
British government, contrived to seize on some possessions of Sindia and the 
Peshwa’s jaghiredars in Malwah; so that after the conclusion of hostilities, in 
1806, he was in possession of not less than eleven pergunnalis, the principal of 
which were Bursea, Chipaneer, Ashta, Shujawulpoor, Sarangpoor, Ichawur, and 
Sehoree above the ghauts of the Nerbudda; together with Satwasand other 
places witliin the valley, yielding a revenue of 15 lacks of rupees per annum, 
besides the compensations he received to abstain from plundering. He stood, 
however, on the brink of a precipice, for he was soon afterwards inveigled to 
an interview by Sindia, who plundered his camp, recovered his possessions, 
and seized the Pindary's person, which he kept imprisoned at Gualior for five 
years. 

Cheetoo, Dost Mahommed, and Namdar Khan, who had all served under 
Kurreem, now emerged into strength and notice. In 1811, Kurreem Klian pur- 
chased his liberty for six lacks of rupees, punctually paid through the agency 
of Zalira Singh, of Kotah, and levying fresh troops recovered great part of his 
former territory. In that yeaj; he induced the other Pindary leaders to assem- 
ble under his standard, when they mustered the formidable number of 25,000 
cavalry, and several battalions of new-raised infantry, the wkbl^ of which he 
proposed to ipiuich against Nagpoor; but being forsaken by Cheetoo^ who 



»iin>*MM.] OF MALWAH. 763 

tamed o^punst hun* and attacked by Sindia’a best troops, he was defeated and 
to 6y beyond the Chumbul to Ameer Khan, who detained him under 
festndnt an^l 1810. Cheetoo now took rhe lead, and in 1814 the relative strength 
o€ the didSerent bands was estimated as Ihllows, viz, 

UndiKrCheetoo’s command, of which 5,000 were good . 10,000 horse. 
Besides the Holcar Shahee Pindaries, about .... 5,000 

15,000 


Kurreem Khan’s remaining band 4,000 

Dost Mahommed 6,000 

Under independent leaders of inferior note 6,000 


Total 31,000 

So formidable an assembly of predatory cavalry, ready to overspread the adja- 
cent cmmtries, could not be viewed without extreme horror, and it imposed 
the necessity of maintaining an unceasing watch along the whole extent of the 
British dominions, which had been ra:\'agedfor two consecutive years, while for 
the security of the Deccan the subsidiary forces of the Nizam and Peshwa Vrere 
annually and unavailingly called out. In fact, in 1 8 1 6* 1 7, the military defensive 
preparations against the Pindaries, on the side of Madras, were nearly as great 
as they would have been to carry on operations of the most decisive nature; 
and besides the hazards to be calculated from their positive strength, were those 
arising from the contagion of their example. 

Under these circumstances the British government considered itself called on 
to execute the most imperious duty required of a sovereign, that of protecting 
its peaceable subjects from desolation, and to prevent the repetition of inva- 
sions known to be preparing with all their attendant atrocities, some of which 
will be found detailed under the article Guntoor. The Pindaries were evi- 
dently too numerous and too powerful to be resisted by the lesser states, and 
it became indispensable wholly to extinguish an association, whose undisguised 
principle of subsisting by indiscriminate plunder, placed it in a state of war 
with every regular government. It was also manifest, that without a complete 
reform of the condition of central India, no partial operations, however brilliant 
and successful, or for a time distressing to the predatory hordes, could prevent 
the evU from recurring in a more terrific shape. Temporary expedients would 
leave the whole to be done over again, and it became absolutely necessary to 
sattle the Ime of demarkation between the chief of a regular government, and 
^ leader of a banditti. To. eradicate the eristing halnts of predatory adven- 

5x2 



764 THE PROVINCE 

ture was the grand object in Tiew« (ntd under the gtmnntee nod eo«tymit .ftf iiifj 
British government, it did not appear impractical to estahUrii n con&^i^,! 
hostile to ail plundering t^gressions and territorial mutation. But the task of 
overtaking and destroying 30,000 ligd^t cavalry over the immense iheld where 
they had the power of moving, required no ordinary effort, while their &te was 
regarded with the greatest anxiety by Sindia, Ameer Khan, and Holcar. The 
Pindaries were in fact an integral, though unavowed, and sometimes hardly 
manageable part of Sindia’s army, and were always the ready auxiliaries of 
Ameer Khan. Indeed, although the army of the last was better fhshioned, and 
more systematically organized than the Pindary forces, still he was essentially 
nothing but a leader of freebooters. 

These obstacles were formidable, buh the measures adopted by the M arquis 
of Hastings were equal to the exigence, and most vigorously followeq up. 
With the view of effecting their complete extirpation, he determined to surround 
the Pindaries with a cordon of efficient corps, which should converge simulta- 
neously towards a common centre. This was accordingly done, and he took 
the field in person on the 16th October, 1817. After the campaign had com- 
menced, a report was received of an invitation given by Sindia to the Pindaries, 
that if they would come near to Gualior, he would break his treaty, and join 
them with the forces he had collected at that fortress. The Pindaries in con- 
sequence proceeded in full march towards Gualior, without encountering the 
slightest impediment from the troops of Sindia stationed on their route; but by 
this time the British army had returned from beyond the Sinde, and occupied 
the passes through the hills, which extend at some distance south of Gualior 
from the Sinde to the Chumbul. These passes were tiie only routes by which 
communication could take place between the Pindaries and Sindia, and the 
latter was informed by the Marquis of Hastings that he was come to protect him 
from tite intrusion of these plunderers. Sindia probably could have dispmised 
with this anxiety for his safety, but returned a civil answer ; while the Pinda- 
rics^ finding their advance impeded, attmnpted to retire, but were so hotly 
pursued by the diffbreut divisions of tiie British anny, that resting place they 

found none. . - 

By tiie conclusion of November, 1817, the Pindaries, by the combined ope- 
ration of the Britii^s«rmies’, had been expelled from all their old haiupts in 
Malwuh. Kuhreem end WaUsU Mahoramed retreated, as above related, toenwds 
Gualior, expecting succour fnan Sindia; while Gheetoo sought rdiige with 
.feswunt Row Show, a refraetify chief imder Sindia, who held large possessions 
in Odeypoor, In both these attempts they were frustrated by the anrax ^ ymn en ts 
planned by Lmd Hastmgs, imtil at lengthy after ntnnberiess xnaidtes a^ coati- 



?iKDAWi:s.] OF MALWAH. 765 

tenswBcIm, sorpr^, routes, and eights, their followers dwindled down to a 
mere handful, their chiefs, with the exception of Cheeto, were either seized or 
threw themselves on trie mercy of the British government. Namdar Khan was 
the first to avail himself of its clemency; Wausil Mahommed was seized near 
Oimlior; Kurreem, after sustaining many hardships, surrendered to Sir John 
Malcdm on the 16th February, 1818; his sons, Shuliamut Khan and Ruttun 
Koonwar, afterwards gave themselves up to Zalim Singh of Kotah. Wausil 
Mahommed continuing refractory, and being detected in an attempt to escape 
took poison and died. Cbeetoo pursued in all directions found bis way from 
Jawud, in Rajpootana, to near Hindia on the Nerbudda. from whence he fled 
towards Khandesh. He afterwards made overtures through the Nabob of Bopaul, 
then retracted, and although almost deserted by his followers endeavoured to 
join Appah Saheb the ex*Raja of Nagpoor, among the Mahadeo hills, in which 
attempt there is every reason to believe he was devoured by a tiger. In this 
manner was accomplished the extirpation of the Pindarics, the possibility of 
which was at one time doubted ; but it was evident even these marauders could 
not exist without a home and powerful support. To expel them from the terri- 
tories which they occupied, to identify them with all who gave them aid or pro- 
tection, and to tolerate no neutrality, was the only mode by winch this dread- 
ful and increasing evil could be overcome. At present there remains not in 
Malwah a spot that a Pindary can call his home. From the manners and habits 
of the people of India, however, new corps of marauders may be expected 
continually to arise ; but these must be put down as tliey occur, and it is not 
probable that any banditti will ever again attain so formidable a strengUi of 
organization. 

It now remained to provide for such of the Pindary chiefs as had voluntarily 
surrendered, which the Governor-General was of opinion could be most conve- 
niently done by assignments of lands, it being understood that the tracts occu- 
pied by the Pindaries themselves, before they were driven from their haunts 
were generally in a good state of cultivation. This circumstance afforded reason 
to hope that with proper encouragement and management, accompanied by a 
vigilant superintendance, and instant suppression of any symptom of recurrence 
to their former habits, a considerable proportion of these robbers might ulti- 
mately betake themselves to peaceful and industrious pursuits. But in selecting 
[buids for them, it was highly expedient to attend to the nature of the country, 
so diat their new establishments should not be fixed in a rogion of great natural 
lifxthgith, or difficult access ; but as far os practicable in one of an opposite 
4<aseri|>lion. It was also thought advisable to avoid collecting them into largo 
in one position, more especially the chiefs, whom it was desirable to 

>>

Part 2, part II

A 


Geographical, Statistical, And Historical 

DESCRIPTION 


HINDOSTAN 

AND THE 

ADJACENT COUNTRIES 


WALTER HAMILTON, Esq. 


VOL. II 


ORIENTAL PUBLISHERS 


I486. Pataudi House* Daeva Ganj, 

tam u. 



R«. 75.00 $ 25.00 

FIRST INDIAN REPRINT. 1971 1 Published by Ind lac Jeet Sharma 
for Oriental Publishers, 1488, Pataudi House, Darya Ganj, DELHI-6, 
and Printed by F.C. S harms at Luzmi Printing Works. DELHI-6. 



ARRANGEMENT OF THE .FIRST VOLUME. 


Mil 

Intiodcction— A general Description of Hindostan vm 

The Province of Bengal . .*■ , 1 

Bahar 839 

Allahabad . . 898 

— Oude 338 

Agra 359 

Delhi 407 

— — Lahore 468 

Cashmere 504 

— ' - Ajmeer 514 

— Mooltan 555 

— Catch 585 

Gujerat * 604 

■ — - Malwah 786 


ARRANGEMENT.-GF THE SECOND VOLUME. 

THE DECCAN l 

The Province of Gundwana 5 

' • Orissa SI 

The Northern Circars @0 

Khandesh 

Berar ' . . ' , . 106 

■ " Boeder . . . . 

1 1 .ii . i .'i . -i i ' Hyderabad . .">188 

- — - - Aurungabad 143 

Bejapoor 80 S 



R*. 78.00 $ 25.00 

^ FIRST INDIAN REPRINT. 1971 s PublUhedfay Ind*r Jeet Sfa«*. 
U« Ot«m«l Publisher*. 1488. Pataudi Hou«. Darya Owj. DELHI-6, 
? nate * W F C - Sharm * « Lu««i Printing Work*. DELHI -6. 



ARRANGEMENT OF THE .FIRST VOLUME. 


FA'QB 

Introduction— A general Description of Hindostan ♦ xvii 

The Province of Bengal . «■ 1 

Bahar 239 

— — Allahabad . . . / . . . 292 

Oude . . t . 338 

Agra 359 

Delhi 407 

Lahore 468 

- ■ — Cashmere * 304 

■ - — Ajmeer 514 

Mooltan 555 

Cutch . 5g5 

Gujerat • 004 

Malwah 1 726 


ARRANGEMENT*^ THE SECOND VOLUME. 


THE PECCAN ! 

The Province of Gundwana > 5 

- — Orissa . 31 

— The Northern Circars „ g q 

' ■■ Khandesh *.«i 95 

Berar 10 g 

-r — Be#der - * ■.#* 

— Hyderabad ........... 

■ — Aurangabad 149 

‘ — Bejapoor a)3 



ARRANGEMENT OF THE SECOND VOLUME. 


INDIA SOUTH OF THE KRISHNA .RIVER 

The Province of Canara . . ' 

— Malabar 

— — Cochin 

— Travancore * . . . . 

— The Balaghaut Ceded Districts 

— Mysore ^ 

Coimbatoor . . . * . . . . 

— — . — Salem and Barramahal 

_ — The Carnatic 

THE ISLAND OF CEYLON 

NORTHERN HINDOSTAN 

The Country between the Sutuleje and J umna 

Gurwal or Serinagur 

Kumaon 

The Dominions of Nepaul 

The Sikkim Domains . . . . 

COUNTRIES ADJACENT TO HTNDOSTAN. 

Baloochistan 

Afghanistan . . . * 

Tibet ' 

Bootan 

Assam 

States adjacent to Assam . 

Ava and the Birman Empire 


TAOt 

<45 

<51 

272 

$02 



399 
48 5 

602 

607 

633 

648 

663 

720 


526 
535 
566 
72 8 
740 
75 $ 
768 


Index 807 

Glossary , 88$ 



HINDOSTAN. 


THE DECCAN (DACSHINA.) 


This term, which is of Sanscrit origin, means the south, and was formerly 
applied by Hindoo geographers, to the whole of the countries which are situated 
to the south of the river Nerbudda, but the fixed possessions of the Mahommedans 
having, for many centuries after their invasion of the Deccan, extended no fur- 
ther sfiuth than the river Krishna, the name of Deccan came to signify in Hin- 
dostan, the countries situated between those two rivers only; and such is the 
popular acceptation of its southern boundary at the present day. The territo- 
ries to the south of the Krishna and Toombuddra may be described as India 
south of the Krishna ; for though along with the Deccan it has been improperly 
termed a peninsula, an equal-sided triangle much more resembles their figure. 
When Aurengzebe in 1690 had completed the conquest of what was then called 
the Deccan, it was sub-divided into six Soubahs or Viceroyaltiea, viz. 

1. Khandesh, the capital, Boorhanpoor. 

2. Aurangabad, or Ahmednuggur, recently the capital of the Nizam Shahee 
dynasty. 

3. Boeder, or Kalbergah, the ancient capital of the Bhamenee Sultans. 

4. Hyderabad including Nandere, the seat of the late Golconda or Cuttub 
Shahee dynasty. 

5. Bejapoor, the capital of the Adfl Shahee dynasty. 

6. The province of Bern, the limits of which were quite undefined, and* 
extended eastward towards Gundwana. ami Orissa, neither of which provinces 

• were included by name in the Mogul Deccan, although situated within its geogra- 
pineal limits, 

t. The Hindoo and nearly unexplored province of Gundwana. 

8. Orissa on dM tna^gia of the bay of Bemad. 

vol. n. 



the DECCAN. 


2 

In these extensive regions the chief part of the population is still Hindoo, 
especially of the provinces that were under the Maharatta governments. There 
is a considerable Mahommedan population in the countries subject to the Nizam; 
but those who are cultivators have nearly adopted all the manners and customs 
of the Hindoos. Not only the principal towns and cities, but many of the larger 
description of villages are abundantly supplied with European manufactures of 
every sort, such as the natives require. They are provided with these by a race 
of men who purchase the commodities at Bombay, and retail them all over the 
Deccan. The articles generally consist of woollens, English chintzes, khives, 
scissors, razors, spectacles, looking-glasses, small prints, and different sort$ of 
hardware; but the great mass of the people have not the means, if they Had 
the inclination, to purchase any considerable quantity of European goods. Any 
surplus that remains after the immediate supply of their necessities is always 
expended in their festivals, marriages, and religious ceremonies. 

The Deccan is mentioned by the author of the Circumnavigation of the Ery- 
threan Sea, as one of the divisions of the Indian continent. His words are, 
“ From Barygaza (supposed to be Broach or Bhrigu-gosha) the continent 
stretches to the south ; hence that district is named Dachinabades, for in the 
language of the country the south is called Dackanos.” 

The first independent sovereign of the Deccan was Sultan Alla ud Been 
Hossein Kangoh Bhamenee, A. D. 1337, whose capital was Kalbergah. He 
died A. D. 1357, and was succeeded by 

Mahommed Shah Bhamenee, who died in 1374. This sovereign was the first 
Mahommedan prince on record, who employed a train of artillery in the Deccany 
wars, worked by Turks and Europeans. 

Mujahid Shah Bhamenee, assassinated in 1377. This monarch penetrated to 
R&misseram in the straits of Ceylon, but did not retain permanent possession 
of the country he had overrun. 

Daoud Shah Bhamenee, assassinated in 1378. 

Mahmood Bhamenee died a natdral death in 1396. 

Gheas ud Deen Bhamenee, dethroned and blinded in 1396. 

Shums-ud Deen Hhamenee, dethroned and blinded in 1396. 

Feroze Roze Afzoon Bhamenee, dethroned by his brother who succeeded hiflfc 

in 1422. 

Ahmed ShahWallee Bhamenee died 1434. 

Allah ud Deen, the second, died 1457. 

Humayoon Shah Bhamenee died in 1460. 

Nizam Shah Bhamenee died in 1462. 

Mahommed Shah Bhamenee died in 1482. 



THE DECCAN 3 

Mahmood Shah Bhamenee died in 1518, in confinement, and with him termi- 
nated the Bhamenee dynasty of the Deccan, although several other pageant 
monarch8 of that family were successively placed on the throne. On the disso- 
lution of this once powerful empire, the Deccan was subdivided into the follow- 
ing kingdoms, which will be found described under their respective heads : 

1. The Bejapoor, or Adil Shahee. 

2. The Golconda, or Cuttub Shahee. 

3. The Berar, or Ommaud Shahee. 

4 The Ahmednuggur, or Nizam Shahee. 

5. The Beeder, or Bereed Shahee. 

Aurengzebe, while viceroy of the Deccan under his father, Shah Jehan, 
greatly curtailed the territories of the remaining Patan princes in that region, 
and after he ascended the throne, he subdued the whole. Just at the same time 
his wars with the Maharattas, then springing into notice, commenced, and gave 
him full occupation for the rest of his life. His perseverance was so great* 
that towards the conclusion of his reign, having taken most of the Maharatta 
fortresses, they were left without any resource but plunder ; yet their numbers 
continued to increase. Many of the powerful and disaffected zemindars joined 
them, so that their predatory forces were estimated at' 100,000 horse. At the 
same time, in spite of Aurengzebe s vigilance and habits of business, the Mogul 
army began to fall off both in spirit and discipline. The imperial nobility, de- 
prived of the revenue of their jaghires by the Maharatta devastations, had 
recourse to false musters, and did not keep up half their complement of men 
and horses. Owing to this, detachments could not be dispersed in pursuit of 
the marauders, and the grand army being constantly employed in sieges, left 
the Maharattas at liberty to plunder without molestation. By their incessant 
activity, they stopped every communication of supply to the imperial camp, 
where numbers perished by famine ; they even offered up mock prayers for the 
long life of Aurengzebe, whose -system of warfare so highly favoured their de- 
predations* In addition to this, the imperial troops were tired out with a 
constant campaign of above 20 years, and grew disgusted with their employ- 
ment, and remiss in their duty. Such was the state of the Deccany provinces 
towards the conclusion of the long and able reign of Aurengzebe, and from this 
detail the difficulties of his successors may be anticipated. It is asserted by 
Mahommedan authors, that Zulficar Khan, one of Aurengzebe*s best generals, 
during six months, had 19 actions vVith the Maharattas, and pursued them from 
place to place above 6000 miles, in marches and counter marches* In the year 
1717, Nizam ul Muluck, obtained possession of what remained of the Mogul 

b 2 



THE DECCAN. 


4 

conquests in the Deccan, which, from that period, virtually ceased to font a 
part of the Delhi empire. 

Hie principal modem subdivians of the Deccan, are the following, each of 
which will be described separately 

1. Gundwana 6. Boeder 

2. Orissa 7. Hyderabad 

3. Hie Northern Circars 8. Aurungabad 

4. Khandesh 9. Bejapoor 

5. Berar \ 

The rivers of the Deccan are too impetuous for navigation when they are 
swollen by periodical rains, and in the hot season too shallow, except near their 
junction with the sea, which is invariably obstructed by sand banks. Under 
these circumstances, the transportation of grain from one place to another be- 
came at an early period an occupation of considerable importance, the toads 
being nearly as impassable for wheel carriages, as the rivers ware for boats. 
The whole of this great interchange has in consequence been always transported 
on bullocks, the property of a class of people named Bunjaries, not aboriginal 
natives of the country, but mostly emigrants from Rajpootana. The Rha- 
tores, Burteah, Chowhan, and Power, are the four principal tribes. In 1813. 
the Rhatores were supposed to possess 90,000 head of cattle, and occupied a 
line of country between the heads of the river Wurda, in Gundwana, through 
Nirmul, Hyderabad, Kurnool, and Cuddapah, down to the confines of Mysore, 
and as for as the coasts of Gpncan. The Burteahs ranged the whole country 
lying along the eastern coast, south of Cicacole to Nelloor, and were supposed 
to possess 80,000 head of cattle. The Chowhan ranged south of Nelloor, in 
the Carnatic and Mysore ; the Powar, who are the least considerable, about 
Orissa and Gundwana, bringing salt and merchandize from the sea coast, end 
returning with grain. They were supposed to possess abouf 12,000 bullocks, 
Within the Deccan there are another race, named Mooltanies, whose erratic 
habits are similar, but who are of the Mahommedan religion, and, according to 
their own story, the descendants of emigrants who fled the province of Mool> 
tan, when Hindostan was invaded by Nadir Shah, in 1739. In Aurungabad, 
they muster about 6000 bullocks, had some few are dispersed about Hyderabad, 
when they follow the occupations of gold finding, and the mimufecturing of 
fee for the nobility .—f Scott, Sydenham, Wilks > Ferishta , Briggs, tfc. %c.) 



THE PROVINCE OF GUNDWANA. 


A large province of the Deccan, extending from the 18th to the 25th degree 
of north latitude. On the north it is bounded by Allahabad and Bahar ; on 
the south, by Berar, Hyderabad, and Orissa; to the east it has Bahar and 
Orissa, and to the west Allahabad, Malwah, Khandesh, Berar, and Hyderabad. 
In length it may be estimated at 400 miles, by 280 the average breadth. Gund- 
wana, in its most extensive signification, comprehends all that, portion of India 
surrounded by the soubahs above mentioned, which remained unconquered up 
to the reign of Aurengzebe ; but Gundwana Proper, or the country of the Gonds, 
is more strictly limited to the districts of Gurrah, Mundlah, Mehkoor, Kheirlah, 
Nagpoor, Choteesghur or Ruttunpoor, Deogur, and Chandah, stretching south 
along the east side of the Wurda and Godavery to within 100 mil<»« of the. 
mouth of the river last mentioned. Within the above space, intervening be- 
tween Bengal, Orissa, and Nagpoor, are a vast number of petty rajaships, 
which, although partly tributary to the Nagpoor Raja, or to the British govern- 
ment, have hitherto been in a manner politically independent, and unconnected 
with each other. These are all wild and woody countries, affording little or no 
revenue or supplies, being in reality of no political importance further than as 
presenting a strong frontier to Bengal and Orissa, for being rugged and moun- 
tainous, and overrun with thick jungle, no army of any considerable number 
or equipment could penetrate through them. The principal modern territorial 
subdivisions, commencing at the northern extremity, are the following, viz : — 

1 Chandail, 9 Sirgooja, 17 Mundlah, 

2 Boghela, 10 OdeypooT, 18 Gurrah, 

3 Billounja, 11 Koorba, 19 Mehkoor, 

4 Singrowla, 12 Jushpoor, 20 Kheirlah, 

5 Raja Chohans, 13 Gangpoor, 21 Gundwana Proper, 

8 Manwas, 14 Sumbhulpoor, 22 -Nagpoor, 

7 Canroody, 15 Sohnpoor, 23 Chandah, and 

3 Sohagepoor, 16 Choteesghur, 24 Bustar. 

South of which, to the Badrachellum pagoda, there is an unexplored tract 
During rite reign of Aurengzebe, the northern part of this province, named 
tom&m or Bhatta, waa partially conquered by his generals, and annexed to 



6 THE PROVINCE 

the soubeh of Allahabad ; but they never made any impression on the sou ther n 
quarter, which remained unsubdued until about the middle of the 18th century, 
when Ragojee Bhoonsla of Nagpoor reduced or rendered tributary the great- 
est proportion of it, and confined the independent Gonds wi thin very narrow 
limits. By the Mahommedans the large district of Choteesghur is sometimes 
named Jeharcund, but this appellation properly applies to the greater part of 
Gundwana. 

This province contains the sources of the Nerbudda and Sone, and is bounded 
by the Wurda and Godavery, but it is on the whole extremely ill watered ; 
the Mahanuddy, Caroon, Hatsoo, and Silair, being the only streams of any\ con- 
sequence by which it is intersected, and none of these are navigable withip its 
limits. T 

A large proportion of this province is mountainous, poor, ill w tered, W 
•healthy, covered with jungle, and thinly inhabited ; and to its poverty and evil 
qualities its long independence may be attributed. The more fertile tracts were 
subdued at an early period by the Bhoonsla Maharattas, who claimed as para- 
mount over the whole; but their sway in many parts was little more tnan 
nominal, and the tribute could only be realized by the presence of an army. 
During the war of 1818, considerable benefit was derived from the rebellion of 
the hill tribes occupying the passes in the Nagpoor territories, who indeed had 
been hitherto restrained by the apprehension of the co-operation of the British 
troops against them. A continued chain of hills, but of no great elevation, 
extends from the southern frontier of Bengal, almost to the Godavery, and 
formerly separated the eastern from the western portion of the Nagpoor do- 
minions. The inhabitants of this tract are mostly Kuros or Camas, and are 
under the government of their respective chiefs. In 1818, one of the principal 
was the Raja of Boorasumber (Boodah Sumbah), a place situated at one of the 
principal passes said to be by one road 125 coss, and by another only 60, east of 
Nagpoor. Bhurpylee is another principal pass, said to be' 17 coss north of 
Boorasumber, and in the same range of hills. These two are the chief passes 
leading into Bahar and Midnapoor ; and all the smaller passes are under the in- 
fluence of different petty chiefs, who levy, or attempt to levy, duty on such 
merchandize as is transported by their routes. Sumbhuipoor being situated to 
east of these barriers, its communication with Nagpoor can be easily interrupted. 

The country occupied by the native Gonds remains for the moist part a prime- 
val wiid^n^ its human inhabitants being scarcely superior to the beasti with 
w ** the y live intermixed. A great majority of tlusmisemble tribe exist 
nearly m a state of nature, and are probably the lowest k the scale of civksa- 
«on of all the natives of India. Having been driven by their iavadem from the 



nag poor.] OP GUNDWANA. 7 

plains to die unwholesome fastnesses of the more elevated regions, they fre* 
quently descend during the harvest to the low lands, and plunder the produce 
of their ancient inheritance. In the course of the last half century, the increas- 
ing appetite of the wild Gonds for salt and sugar, has tended more to promote 
their civilization than any other circumstance. The sea air is said to be as fatal 
to their temperament, as that of the hill to the inhabitants of the adjacent plains. 
The Gonds are Hindoos of the Brahminical sect, that sacred tribe having conde- 
scended to officiate as spiritual directors to some of their chiefs, but they retain 
many of their impure customs, and abstain from no flesh except that of the ox, 
cow,, and bull. One of their chiefs, who resided at Deoghur, 40 miles north 
from Pandooma, was conquered by a general of Aurengzebe’s and carried pri- 
soner to Delhi, where he had his lands returned to him on embracing the Ma- 
hommedan faith, and also the title of Boorahan Shah. His descendants were 
subdued by the Bhoonsla Maharattas, and carried prisoners to Nagpoor, yet 
although they still continue Mahommedans, the other Gond chiefs esteem it 
an honour to be connected by marriage with the family. Besides these chiefs, 
Aurengzebe, who, like Tippoo, was a great converter, made forcibly many pro- 
selytes among the lower classes. In more recent times, the Gond tribes have 
been all rendered tributary to the Nagpoor Maharattas, but the realizing of their 
revenue, almost always required the presence of a detachment, which, in fact, 
cost more than the trifling sums exacted from the Gonds, who, when not occu- 
pied in this manner, were generally engaged in predatory hostilities against each 
other. Nagpoor is the modern capital of Gundwana, the ancient ones were 
Gurrah, Mundlah, and Deoghur, but there are no vestiges indicative that the 
province at any era flourished as a civilized or highly cultivated country. Since 
the defection of Appa Saheb, the ex Raja of Nagpoor, a large proportion of the 
province has been transferred to the British government ; but the time elapsed 
has been so short, that little statistical information has been as yet collected. — 
(J. Grant , Leckie, Capt f Blwit, Col. Colebrooke , <§c. 8?c. tyc.) 

NAGPOOR ( Nagapura , the town of serpents). 

A large town in the Gundwana province, the capital of the Bhoonsla Maharatta 
dynasty. Lat. 21° 9' N. long. 79° 1 V E. It has been generally supposed that 
Nagpoor is the capital of Berar, but that is a mistake, the inhabitants considering 
Berir as an adjoining province, the capital of which is Ellichpoor. 

This capital of the eastern Maharattas is a city of modem date, and though 
very extensive and populous, is meanly built, the streets being narrow and filth v, 
and t be bouses covered with tiles. When the first Ragojee Bhoonsla fixed here 
the seat of government, it was an insignificant village, which he surrouded with 
a rampart, but it still cannot be described as a regularly fortified town. It stands 



THE PROVINCE [waovoo*. 

on a fine high plaid, which is fertile and well cultivated, and bounded byhiBsof 
a moderate height to the north-west and south. The Nag Noddy, a rivulet run- 
ning to the southward, communicates the name of the town. The general ap- 
pearance of the country to the north is that of a forest, with villages and amai 
totfns thinly scattered over it. At present the city is surrounded by an imper- 
fect wall three miles in circumference, with round towers at certain distances. 
About 300 yards from the western gate, within the walls, stands the fort, a place 
of considerable strength, in which are the Raja s palaces and other stone build- 
ings, sufficiently strong to require a battering train for their reduction, toggpthfer 
with experienced sappers and miners. The British residency lies to t' - JL - i 
the city, and is separated from it by a small ridge running north and sOutft, 
having two hills at its extremities, called the Seetabaldee hills, about 300 yirdt 
apart, and elevated about 100 feet above the level of the country. The stone ibr 
building the walls of the city and palace was brought from these hills, which 
circumstance tended to strengthen the British position during the action fought 
there. The Jumma tank extends the whole way from the residency to the city, 
and is about three-quarters of a mile long, by 400 yards broad. The suburbs are 
of great extent ; indeed, including the city, above seven miles in circumference, 
and the population of the whole has been estimated at 100,000 persons. 

In 1740, the Mogul province of Berar formed a part of the dominions of Ram 
Raja, the fourth in descent from Sevajee, when it was assigned to Ragojee 
Bhoonsla, the bukshy or commander in chief of the forces, for the payment of 
his army ; but it does not appear that be ever considered himself independent 
Of the Satarah state. He was succeeded by his son Janojee, who died A. D. 
1772. His successor, after many contests with the different members of his 
family, was his nephew Ragojee Bhoonsla the Second, under the regency of his 
father Moodajee. In the succession to this throne, it seems to have been admitted 
that die reigning prince had the right to nominate his successor, even to the ex- 
clusion of the legitimate heir, but in practice, the latter, unless universally dis- 
liked, would almost always prevail. The legitimate heir m any given case is 
always the nearest' relation in the male line, the female line being considered as 
totally removed from any pretensions to the succession, unless by adoption into 
the name and family of the reigning prince. The Nagpoor Raja does not ap- 
pear ever to have considered himself subordinate to the Peshwa, cm the con- 
trary, on occasions of meeting, the Raja, in consequence of his relation to the 
family of Sevajee, was treated as a superior in rank; and in the capacity of first 
constituent member of the empire, claimed the right of sending to the Peshwa 
a diess of honour, on bis accession to that office. This system, has been con- 
• tinned to die present time, the Nagpoor Rags still maintainiag kisprsteoaioet to 



vmmobJ OF GUNDWANA. 9 

be Raja of Satarah, which claims, however, hare never ben ad mi tted by the 
Pesbwa. 

For a long aeries of years it was the policy of this state to interfere as little as 
possible with the concerns of the neighbouring potentates, and for a long time 
its internal dissensions furnished its sovereigns with sufficient occupation. The 
territories over which they ostensibly reigned, being of great extent, wild, and 
desolate, presented many obstacles and few attractions to the cupidity of their 
neighbours ; they in consequence remained for many years exempt from external 
warfare. At length, in 1803, Ragojee Bhoonsla, in an evil hour, was induced to 
depart from this system of neutrality, and joined Dowlet Row Sindia in a con- 
federacy against the British government. The signal defeats they sustained from 
General Wellesley at Assye and Argaum, soon compelled the former to sue most 
earnestly for peace, which was granted on the 17th December, 1803, when a 
treaty of peace was concluded, which involved large cessions of the Nagpoor 
dominions, and shook the state to its basis. By the conditions of this treaty, 
the province of Cuttack, including the pergunnah and po.rt of Balasore, were 
ceded to the British government, while the Nizam received all the territory of 
which he collected the revenue in conjunction with the Nagpoor Raja, whose 
western frontier was in consequence defined by the river Wurda, from whence 
it issues from die Injardy hills, to its junction with the Godavery. The bills on 
which the forts of Gawelghur and Nemallah stand, with a contiguous district of 
four lacks, were allowed to remain with the Raja, who agreed to refer any dis- 
putes he might have with the Nizam to the arbitration of the British-goverament 

Ragojee Bhoonsla continued to reign over his remaining territories, the re- 
sources of which were progressively diminishing, and his danger from the impend- 
ing hordes of Pindaries augmenting. In 1808, the Bengal government had a phut 
in agitation for the protection of the Nagpoor dominions, and the eastern portion 
of Berar, by a joint system of operations to be undertaken by the Hyderabad 
and Nagpoor governments, but to get these infatuated states to act rationally, or 
in concert, was found impracticable. The Nagpoor Raja’s views were at that 
time bent on the conquest of Bopaul, for the attainment of which every nerve 
was strained, while the protection of his own country against the attacks of the 
Pindaries, who fired the capital, was wholly neglected. Under these circum- 
stances the irruption of Meer Khan, in 1809, would have terminated the political 
existence of this dynasty, had not the British government interposed to prevent 
it, by a simultaneous movement from Hindostan and the Deccan, on which occa- 
sion a Bengal and Madras army met for the first time to the north of die 
Nerbudda. 

: TOLU. 



10 THE PROVINCE [vaeroot. 

While thus indifferent about his external relations, Ragojee was busily em- 
ployed within, in the amassing of treasure, which was principally effected through 
the agency of a person named Dhermajee, who for many years had charge of that 
portion of his territory, including the city of Nagpoor, which the Raja retained 
under his own management, and also of his highness’s private trade, which was 
very extensive in almost every branch. Exclusive of these resources, this indivi- 
dual conducted the open and authorized robberies, committed in every shape on 
the property of subjects and strangers, which were latterly carried on to an ex- 
traordinary excess. With these facilities Dhermajee amassed about a crore of 
rupees, ostensibly his own property, but it is difficult to suppose that a prince, so 
sharp-sighted in money matters, would have permitted such an accumulation, 
and it was in consequence suspected that his highness covered many of his Own 
depredations under his minister’s name. The result of such a nefarious system 
was experienced in 1817, at which period the Raja’s subjects, along the banks 
of the Nerbudda, were found fully as averse to the restoration of tranquillity as 
the Pindaries were, and the Raja’s own troops more refractory than either. 
When a plundering party from the north crossed the Nerbudda to make an incur- 
sion into the British territories, it was immediately joined by many of the inha- 
bitants, so that as the banditti proceeded south their numbers increased. 

Ragojee Bhoonsla died on the 22d March, 1816, when his son and legitimate 
successor Raja Persojee Bhoonsla was placed on the throne. The blindness and 
notorious imbecility of this prince, owing to paralytic affections, placed the 
struggle for power between Appa Saheb, the late Raja’s nephew, and a party 
headed by Buka Bhye, one of his wives, in conjunction with Dhermajee the trea- 
surer already mentioned. Appa Saheb sensible of the powerful means possessed 
by his opponents, from the beginning eagerly sought the support of a British 
connexion, and made overtures accordingly to Mr. Jenkins the resident. After 
some negociation Appa Saheb having made secret arrangements, seized die 
person of Dhermajee, and was installed regent under Persojee, who evinced 
some alacrity in extorting the wealth they had accumulated' from the treasurer 
and his adherents. Appa Saheb after this success continued as urgently as before 
to solicit the alliance of the British government, and in 1816, a treaty for the 
maintenance of a subsidiary force and contingent was in consequence arranged 
in the most amicable manner. The resources of the Nagpoor state were then 
estimated at 60, or, including the regent’s revenue, at 70 lacks of rupees per 
annum. Soon afterwards Persojee, the blind and paralytic Raja, died (as was 
then supposed), when his wife Casi Bhye ascended die funeral pUe and burned 
along with the body. But after Appa Saheb’s deposition, when a c c ess was 



VAoroom.] OP GUNBWANA. It 

obtained to the females and servants of the interior, it was positively ascertained, 
that Persojee had been strangled on the morning of the 1st February, 1817, hav- 
ing previously refused poison because it was bitter. 

Appa Saheb was immediately proclaimed by the name of Moodajee Bhoonsia ; 
but it was soon discovered that while exhausting himself in solemn protestations 
of devoted friendship to the British, he was actively engaged in all the intrigues 
of the Peshwa, and meditated at attempt against the life of the resident from the 
British government accredited at his court. In prosecution of this treachery his 
army, estimated at 10,000 infantry, (of whom from 3 to 4000 were Arabs,) and 
an equal number of horse, on the 26th November, 1817, attacked the British 
detachment under Colonel Scott, consisting of 1350 men, then encamped on the 
Seetabaldee hills. A most trying contest ensued which was closed about noon 
of the 27th November, having lasted without intermission 18 hours, the result 
proving the insignificance of numerical superiority against discipline and valour. 
The British loss was 333 killed and wounded, including four officers, Capt. 
Sadler, Lieut. Grant, Lieut. Clarke, and Dr. Niven, killed ; and Captains Charles- 
worth, Lloyd, Pew, and Lieutenants Thullier, Bayley, and Comets Smith and 
Hearsay, wounded. In addition to these, Mr. Sotheby, an accomplished and 
meritorious civil servant, the resident’s first assistant, who was killed in the act 
of rallying and encouraging the escort at the most dangerous crisis. Finding 
his villanous efforts ineffectual, Appa Saheb s courage, of which he had no large 
stock, failed him, and he sued for peace, which was granted, and continued to 
him until he was detected in a new conspiracy, when the instinctive principle of 
self-preservation demanded his removal from the throne. His army, however, 
still continuing to resist and to defend the batteries, they were attacked, and 
after considerable loss, compelled to capitulate by the forces under General 
Doveton. In this manner the military operations against the Nagpoor state were 
brought to a termination, in little more tljan a month from the date of the Raja’s 
defection. 

After the experienced treachery of Appa Saheb, it was determined to exercise 
a complete controul over him and his territory, and certain tracts equal to 24 
lacks of revenue, north and south of the Nerbudda, were appropriated in lieu of 
the subsidiary force. These consisted of Mooltaye, Ainer, Pawiee, Saoleeghur, 
Maisdee, Baitool, Masood, Mundlah, Seonee, Choopara, Akote, Ac. Chouraghur, 
Jubbulpoor and Putun, to the south of the Nerbudda; and Sumbhulpoor, So- 
hagepoor, Sirgoojah and Jushpoor to the north. Before the end of January, 1818, 
with the exception of the forts of Chouraghur and Mundela, the whole had been 
brough under subjection, and furnished considerable resources for mating exi- 
gencies* As yet but little is known of these temtoiies. The district of Seance 

c2 



THE PROVINCE 


n 


[**etO0ft» 


Chupparah extends on the Jubbnlpoor road to within 30 or 40 miles of Nagpoor, 
and gives the possessor the complete command of the most difficult parts, and 
connected with Mundlah and other tracts ceded on the line of the Nerbudda, 
is very capable of improvement and cultivation. At the other extremity ad- 
joining Hosseinabad, the districts of Saooleeghur, Baitool, Mooltaye, and Mais- 
dee, connect the tracts on the Nerbudda with Gawelghur and Berar, and give 
the command of the ghauts on the road from Nagpo'or to Hosseinabad. They 
also complete the separatiou of the Nagpoor Raja’s reserved territories *rom 
those of Sindia, and under good management may be expected to yield an 
adequate revenue. The intermediate country between these two extremities 
is for the most part extremely mountainous, and possessed by the Gondsi The 
country remaining to the Raja after these cessions was calculated to y|j»ld a 
revenue of 42 lacks, but the Nagpoor ministers did not expect to realize Wore 
than 35 lacks. \ 

The European reader will scarcely believe, that after submitting to be re- 
instated on the throne of Nagpoor by the hands of the British resident, Appa 
Saheb should instantaneously commence a new series of intrigues for the over- 
throw of the British power. With this intention he not only agreed with great 
apparent willingness to all the terms proposed ; but even proffered more than 
was asked. Without occupying too much space, it would be impossible to 
narrate the complication of plots through which he attempted to connect his 
hostile machinations with those of the Peshwa. Strong suspicion had been 
originally excited by the discovery, that instead of bringing his treasures back 
to Nagpoor along with the females of his family, he had secretly issued orders 
to have the greater part carried to Chanda and other fortresses. For many 
years past the British diplomatists have been much practised in the develope- 
ment of similar mysteries, which, although arranged with much apparent sub- 
tlety, are easily detected, and generally through the intervention of the native 
agents employed to carry them on. A profusion of documents, directly impli- 
cating the Raja, being obtained, Mr. Jenkins resolved to anticipate the danger 
by placing him under close arrest, which was accordingly effected without its 
being necessary to enter the apartments reserved for the women. Nagoo Punt 
and Ram Chunder Wagh, the two chief ministers, were also confined, and spon- 
taneously confessed the multiplicity of intrigues going on ; the circumstances 
attending the murder of Raja Persojee were also then for the first time 
disclosed. 

AH future confidence in Appa Saheb being utterly hopeless, he was with Us 
two ministers dispatched for Allahabad on the 3d of May, ISIS, On the 18th 
of that month ha arrived at Rycbofe^ one day’s march from Jubbuipoor, whore ■ 



chawdau..] OP GUNDWANA. 13 

he effected hit escape. Before long it was ascertained, that he had fled in the 
fiat instance to Heraee, about 40 miles S. W. of Rychore, and thence to the 
Mahadeo hills, where he was harboured and concealed by the Gonds, and more 
especially by a chief of considerable influence,, named Chyne Sah. By the 
close of the rains he managed to collect a few followers round his standard from 
the dispersed army of Bajerow, and the Arabs expelled from Khandesh. Thus 
reinforced he has ever since given considerable trouble, nor was the insurrection 
in his favour up to the latest date thoroughly subdued, although large rewards 
had been offered for his apprehension. Indeed no country was ever better 
adapted for a desultory warfare, the whole being a continued succession of 
mountains, ravines, rivers, and jungles, and experience has proved how easily, 
under such circumstances, a harrassing contest may be prolonged. 

The extensive sacrifices that had been demanded of Appa Saheb on his re- 
storation, had left the Nagpoor state little more than half of its prior possessions, 
while the British controul in the internal management of the remainder was 
specially authorized. After the treacherous defection of the ex-Raja, and his 
subsequent reinstalment, no new conditions were exacted, and his escape after- 
wards made no alterations in the designs of the British government. On the 
25th off June, 1818, the grandson of the late Ragojee Bhoonsla was placed on 
the throne, and assumed the title of Ragojee the Third. Bucka Bhye, the 
widow of his grandfather, was appointed regent, and Narrain Pundit prime 
minister; but for the present British officers are directly employed, under the 
supervision of Mr. Jenkins, in the principal departments of the state. The 
Nagpoor contingent has been fixed at two battalions of foot and 3000 horse, 
commanded by British officers ; the infantry clothed and disciplined like regular 
sepoys, and in this manner has the Bhoonsla branch of the Maharatta empire 
been reduced to a condition little superior to that of the revived Rajas of Satarah. 

Travelling distance from Hyderabad 321 miles ; from Oojein 340 ; from Poona 
486 ; from Delhi 631 ; from Madras 673 ; from Calcutta 733 ; and from Bombay 
677 miles.— ( Prinsep, Jenkins , Public MS. Documents , The Marquis of Hastings , 
Leckie , Pennell , Fitxclarence , §c. 8$c. 8$c.) 

Baum Gunga, qr Wainy River (Vana Ganga , the arrow Ganges )> — This 
river rises in Choteesghur, and receives all the streams that have their sources 
on the S. W. side of the hills which separate the champaigfi country of Cho- 
teesghur from Berar. Its course has never been completely traced, but it is 
supposed to join the Inderowty* (Indravati) river, which flows into the Godavery 
near Badrachellum. 

Chundail (Chandala ). — A small district in the province of Gundwana, 
bounded on the north by the Sone river, sad formerly separated from the British 
ttftrietof Chunsr by the rifsrBobsr The natives of this country call them. 



14 THE PROVINCE [boohejla* 

selves Chundails, and are a tribe of Rajpoots, the usual residence of whose Raja, 
in 1794, was at Rajeghur, 20 miles W. of Beedjeeghur. The country became 
tributary to the Rajas of Benares in the days of Bulwunt Singh, who conquered 
it; for it had never been' thoroughly subdued by the Moguls, although formally 
^annexed to the soubah of Allahabad by Aurengzebe. This territory is very 
thinly inhabited, and in many parts d complete wilderness. The road south 
from the British dominions is over a number of small hills, with scarcely the 
vestige of a habitation, there being few permanent villages, the inhabitants 
making a practice of changing their sites very frequently. The natives of these 
hills are named Karwar, and are a very savage tribe, divided into many sects, 
acknowledging allegiance to a vassal of the Burdee Raja, who resides at 
Buddery. — ( J. B. Blunt , 8$c.) 

Burdee. — This town stands on the south bank of the Sone river, which is 
here a very diminutive stream, 38 miles south from the city of Mirzapoor. 
Lat. 24° 36' N. long. 82° 21' E. The fort of Burdee is of stone, and is placed 
on a high abrupt hill washed by the Goput. There is another small fort not 
far off, najned Bhoparee, which is 30G feet long by 150 broad, with a bastion at 
each corner, and a parapet 10 feet thick and six high, but all these works are 
commanded by the range of hills under which they are situated. 

For some years prior to 1815, the frontier villages in the Mirzapoor district 
had been undisturbed by predatory inroads from the Burdee country ; in that 
year the renewal of these outrages, the repairing of the fortifications of Bhoparee, 
and the course of conduct pursued by the Raja and Sumam Singh, compelled 
the British government to adopt measures for coercing their malpractices and 
demolishing their fortifications, which objects were attained by negotiation 
without the necessity of resorting to military operations. On this occasion it 
was ascertained, that although no force resembling a standing anny existed in 
Chundail, yet it was in the power of these leaders to collect above 10.000 men, 
able, and perhaps willing, to appear in arms, the lands being generally let on a 
tenure which bound the holder, when required, to assist his superior in his own 
person and accompanied by his dependants. The Burdee Raja’s territories are 
intermixed with those of the British government, and are in some parts to* 
lerably cultivated, but in the vicinity of Burdee the surrounding country has 
a very desolate aspect.— (Public MS. Documents. J. B. Blunt, fyc.) 

Saipoor. — A town in the province of Gundwana, 80 miles 8. from Mirzapoor. 
Lat. 24° 2' N. long. 82° 46' E. 

Boghela. — A district in the province Gundwana, but during the reign o t 
Aurengzebe annexed by edict to the soubah of Allahabad, although it never was 
actually subdued by his forces. The produce of the country is wheat, bailey, 
and different kinds of peas, and the inhabitants possess large flocks of cattle and 


a 



baja chohans.] OP GUNDWANA. 15 

sheep. The land, however, is but little cultivated, the natives scarcely raising 
grain enough for their own subsistence. A portion of this tract is tributary to 
the British government ; and the whole is now in the line of its protection. 
The principal towns are Bandoqgur and Muckondabad. 

Bandoogur. — A town in the province of Gundwana, district of Boghela, 80 
miles N. from Mundlah. Lat. 23° 50' N. long. 81° E. In the time of Aureng- 
zebe, Baundhoo, or Bhatta, was the name of the northern portion of the Hindoo 
province of Gundwana, then, although actually independent, annexed by edict 
to the province of Allahabad. — ( J. Grant, £?c.) 

Billounjah. — A small district in the province of Gundwana, extending 
along the south bank of the Sone river, and bounded on the east by the zemin- 
dary of Palamow, in the province of Bahar. This tract is comprehended within 
the line of British protection. The principal towns, or rather villages, are 
Oontarree and Ranka. 

Singhrowla. — A small district in the province of Gundwana, bounded on 
the east by the British province of Bahar, zemindary of Palamow. The Singh* 
rcwla Raja’s territories commence on the north-west, at a narrow defile in the 
Bickery hills, called Bulghaut. In this tract between the hills are extensive 
vallies, but wild and uncultivated, and frequently covered with forests. A few 
small villages axe scattered over the face of the country, in the vicinity of which 
some cultivation is seen ; but therterritory in general is very desolate.- Iron is found 
in abundance, the price being from 1$ to 2$ rupees per 801bs. according to the 
quality. In this miserable region, several Hindoo mythological excavations and 
images have been discovered, but of very inferior description to those of the 
Deccan. Singhrowla is still possessed by various petty and independent native 
chiefs, the principal of whom is the Raja of Shawpoor. — (J. B. Blunt, §c.) 

Shaw poor (Shahpura). — The principal town in the district of Singhrowla, 
situated in lat. 23* 38' N. long. 83° 25' E. 45 miles W. by S. from Palamow. 
This place stands in a fine plain, amidst lofty ranges of hills, and consists of a 
large straggling town with a little fort built of ruble stone and mud. The 
Rhair, a considerable river, runs by the south side of the town, with a stream 
of about 100 yards in breadth and four feet deep, dashing with great rapidity 
over a bed of rocks, which prevent its being navigable for large boats. The plain 
surrounding Shawpoor is tolerably fertile.— (J. B. Blunt, Sgc.) 

Raja Chohans. — A wild country in the province of Gundwana, situated 
between Sohagepoor and Singhrowla. This is an extremely rugged and moun- 
tainous tract, very little cultivated, and inhabited by some of the wildest tribes 
in India. The whole country is a succession of deep gullies, ravines, chasms, 
and deilea. The inhabitants are named Chohans, and their Raja was formerly 



16 THE PROVINCE [omebctotuc. 

tributary to the Maharattas, but not remarkable for the punctuality of his pay* 
ments. The land produces a little rice, Indian corn, and a few other mailer 
grains peculiar to hilly countries. South of Soneput, the country becomes 
more open, but the villages continue very poor, not consisting generally of more 
than four or five miserable huts. There is a great abundance of game through- 
out the whole district. Among the animals of a more ferocious nature, may be 
enumerated the royal tiger, leopards, tiger cats, and large black bears. The 
principal town is Soneput, the usual residence of the Cotair Rajas, who appear 
to have lived in complete independence, before the Maharattas, in 1700, pushed 
their conquests into these woods and wilds. — (J. B. Blunt , S?c, fyc.) v\ 

Manwas. — A small, sterile, and thinly peopled tract of country, in the proA 
vince of Gundwana, confining on Boghela and the Raja Chohans. The town, 
or village of Manwas, stands in lat. 24* 12' N. long. 82° E. 51 miles S. E. from 
Rewah. 

Canroodt, — This small district is bounded on the south by Sohagepoor, and 
is intersected by the Sone river, and a few contributary streams or brooks, but 
it contains no town of consequence. Like other tracts similarly situated in the 
province of Gundwana, the zemindars, or landholders, had tribute occasionally 
extorted from them by the Maharattas. 

Sohagepoor. — A district in the province of Gundwana, intersected by the 
Sone river, and reaching nearly to the source of that stream, at the temple of 
Omercuntuc. In ancient times this territory composed part of the Hindoo state 
of Gurrah, but during the reign of Aurengzebe, it was formally annexed to the 
soubah of Allahabad, although only subjected in name to the Mogul empire. 
It has, however, occasionally paid tribute to its more powerful neighbours, and 
latterly was considered a regular appendage to the dominions of Nagpoor, until 
ceded to the British government in 1818. The town of Sohagepoor stands in 
lat. 23° 28' N. long. 81° 40' E. 65 miles N. N. E. from Mundlah. 

Omercuntuc ( Amara Cantaca ). — A celebrated place of Hindoo pilgrimage, 
in the .province of Gundwana, 28 miles N. N. W. from Ruttunpoor. Lat. 
22° 55' N. long. 82° 7' E. The country around Omercuntuc is very wild and 
thinly inhabited. It is seldom or never frequented, except by Hindoo pilgrims, 
who go to visit the sources of the Sone and Nerbudda rivers at this place, the 
usual road to which is by Ruttunpoor. No European traveller has as yet visited 
it; but, according to native authorities, these rivers derive their origin from the 
water that is collected in, and issues from, the cavities of the .mountains which 
form the elevated table land of Omercuntuc. Of this territory, the NagpoorR^fa 
formerly claimed a part; the Rqaof Sohagepoor another: part; and the Gouda 
athiid; but the latter were generally the occupants of the whole, although but 



OF GUNDWAFA. 


SI1GOOJAH.] 


17 


thinly scattered among the jungle. Omercuntuc, with its sacred sources, being 
now comprehended within the dominions of Britain, it is to be hoped this por- 
tion of the province will not remain much longer unexplored. — (J. B . Blunt , 
8p. Sp.J 

Sirgoojah. — A large district in the province of Gundwana, situated about 
the 23d degree of north latitude, and bounded on the east by the British district 
of Palamow. The town of Sirgoojah stands in lat. 23° 5' N. long. 83° 26' E. 
65 miles S. S. W. from Palamow. In 1802, in consequence of the hostile line 
of conduct in which the Sirgoojah Raja had so long persevered, the Bengal 
government directed Major S. Jones, then commanding in Ramghur, to make 
some inquiries regarding the circumstances of this petty state, and its unex- 
plored country,, when the following particulars were collected from native 
authorities : 

In 1802, Sirgoojah was bounded on the north by Singhrowla; on the west 
by Sohagepoor; on the south by Ruttunpoor and Odeypoor; and on the east 
by Palamow. It then nominally formed part of the Ruttunpoor district under 
the Nagpoor Baja. In length from north to south, it was estimated at 180 
miles ; and from east to west 80 miles. It was then supposed to contain 21 
clhundoors, or territorial subdivisions, averaging 400 villages each ; but three- 
fourths of the country were described as mountainous, jungly, and nearly in a 
state of nature. The Raja’s capital, named Sirgoojah Nuggur, was said to be 100 
miles from Burgur, on the frontiers of Palamow (actually not half that distance) 
situated on the river Kunner. His established military force was 500 Burkin- 
dauzes, and 400 horse, mostly paid by plunder, but if the country were properly 
raised, an undisciplined body of from 5000 to 7000 men, might be turned out. 
The country was then ruled by Singhram Singh, the Raja’s uncle, and his mother s' 
murderer, in concert with the commander of the troops named Petumber Singh, 
who had* gradually raised himself from the most obscure origin. The legitimate 
Raja, Bulbudder Singh, was then 12 years of age, and unable to protect his 
subjects, who were much oppressed by the two usurpers, and eager for their 
expulsion. The obedience paid to the Raja of Nagpoor was very slight, and 
the tribute only 3000 rupees per annum for so vast an extent of territory ; and 
- even that small amount was very irregularly paid. It does not appear that the 
Sirgoojah country then contained any towns of note, or even fortified posts. 

Prior to 1802, the repeated predatory inroads from Sirgoojah on the British 
territories, had been the subject of repeated remonstrances to tne court of 
Nagpoor, which remonstrances had invariably been followed by mandatory in- 
junctions from die Raja of that sovereignty to his feudatory, to desist from his 
outrageous conduct ; but the menaces of the nominal superior were 

VOL* XI. D 



THE PROVINCE 


18 


[siBGOOMtt. 


disregarded by the Sirgoojans, who every year repeated their incursions, plun- 
dering and desolating the open part of Palamow, and the adjacent tracts on that 
frontier. As it had become evident that no redress was to be expected from 
any further representations at Nagpoor, the Marquis Wellesley, then governor- 
general, directed the adoption of decisive measures, the continuance of such 
atrocities tending to disgrace the British government, as if unable to protect its 
subjects. A detachment was accordingly assembled, under the command of 
Major S. Jones, who entered the territory, and after some slight opposition pro- 
secuted his march to the Raja’s capital, without encountering any other obstacles 
to his progress than those presented by the badness of the roads, the imper- 
vious nature of the passes, and the difficulty of procuring provisions. Bistam- 
poor was then the Raja’s usual residence, and stands about 70 miles to\the 
south-east of Burgqr ; but the intervening tract is so difficult and jungly, that 
eight miles is reckoned a good day’s march. The appearance of the village and 
of the Raja } s house was, to the last degree, miserable, and the country appeared 
to have been wholly exhausted by the exactions of Petumber Singh to support 
the banditti he maintained. Possession was taken of the capital, such as it was, 
but the disaffected chiefs fled to the hills. Soon afterwards, the principal leaders 
of the insurgents, who had fled into Sirgoojah, were apprehended, and to ar- 
rangement concluded with the Nagpoor court, for the future management of 
this unruly district. By the conditions of the stipulations now entered into, 
the Nagpoor Raja engaged that Singhram Singh and Petumber Singh should 
never be permitted to return within the limits of Sirgoojah, and that he would 
maintain a sufficient lorce on the spot to sustain the authority of Juggernauth 
Singh, the guardian of the young Raja, Bulbudder Sahy. These negociations 
being completed. Major Jones commenced his march for the British provinces, 
and on the 5th of June, 1 802, arrived with the detachment under his command 
at Hazary Baugh, where he soon after died, leaving the temporary command of 
the Ramghur battalion to Lieutenant Roughsedge. Short as the Major’s sub- 
sequent career was, the arrangements made under his auspices were still shorter, 
for no sooner had the British forces reached their destination within the Com- 
pany’s territories, than intelligence was received that Juggernauth Singh, the 
guardian, had been compelled to quit Sirgoojah, and that Singhram Singh, the 
insurgent, by the connivance of the officers of the Raja of Nagpoor, had been 
enabled to re-establish his former authority in that country. 

Notwithstanding this counter-revolution, it is probable that the British govern- 
ment received no further cause of complaint, as the affairs of Sirgoojah remain 
wholly unnoticed until 1813, when Bulbudder Sahy, who had then attained the 
years of discretion, applied for assistance to- quell the rebellion of his unde, 
Singhram Singh, but it was then refused, to the troops in Palamow were ie- 



OP GUNDWANA. 


JUSHPOOR.] 


19 


quired to protect that territory against the incursions of predatory horse, which 
were then apprehended. The disaffected jaghiredars, gaining confidence from 
thia apparent inability, surrounded the residence, and put to death the spiritual 
director of the Raja, who with his mother, would have probably shared the 
sanm fete, but for the interposition of Major Roughsedge, who sent a party of 
Sepoys to protect them. Raja Bulbudder Sahy, and his son the young Raja, 
died of the small-pox in 1818, by which catastrophe the direct line of the Sir- 
goojah family became extinct. In the same year, the sovereignty of Sirgoojah 
was ceded to the British government by the Nagpoor state, a$d arrangements 
are still in progress for its settlement. The plan is, after restoring and confirm- 
ing the authority of the hereditary Raja, which has been much impaired by the 
corruption of the Nagpoor functionaries, and the turbulence of the jaghiredars, 
to leave him to manage the internal administration of his country, with the least 
possible interference on the part of the British government . — ( Public MS. Do- 
cuments, S. Jones, <§c. fyc.) 

Kurgommah ( Cargama ). — This place is situated in the proper Gond coun- 
try, and continues subject to an independent Raja of that tribe. In the wild 
tract a few miles south from Kurgommah,* neither silver nor copper coins are 
current, but cowries pass for twice the value at which they are rated in Bengal. 
Lat. 23° 9' N. long. 82° 33' E. 55 miles N. from Ruttunpoor. 

Odeypoor (Udayapura). — A small district in the province of Gundwana, 
bounded on the north by Sirgoojah. The town of Odeypoor is situated in lat. 
22° 31' N. long. 83° 21' E. 61 miles E. by N. from Ruttunpoor. The Raja of 
Odeypoor has long been a feudatory to the Nagpoor sovereign, who, in 1802, 
was so incensed against him, that he detached 1000 infantry under a chief named 
Ballarow, to lay waste his country with fire and sword ; his territory is now 
within the line of British protection. — (S. Jones, <§c. §c.) 

Koorba (Curava ). — The chief of this small tract had also the Raja of Nag- 
poor for his superior, but respecting the interior condition of this quarter of the. 
Gundwana province very little is known. The town of Koorba stands on the 
east side of the Iiatsoo river, 32 miles east from Ruttunpoor. Lat. 22° 23' N. 
long. 82° 56-' E. 

Jushpoor. — This zemindary is bounded on the east by the division of Chuta 
Nagpoor, and on the north by the Sirgoojah country ; but little is known of its 
interior, except, that like the adjacent portions of the Bahar province, it has a 
a hilly surface and a barren soil, little cultivated, and much overgrown with 
jungle. The town of Jushpoor is situated in lat. 22° 11' N. long. 83° 51' E. 74 
miles N. by E. from Sumbhulpoor. Bdth town and district are dependent on 
Sitgemqh. 

•* 



30 THE PROVINCE [.uhmowoo*. 

Gangpoor. — A small district in the province of Gundwana. bounded on the 
north by the zemindary of Chuta Nagpoor, and comprehended within title line 
of territory protected by the British government. The town of Gangpoor stands 
in lat. 21° 64' N. long. 84° 30' E. 78 miles N. E. from Sumbhulpoor. 

' • Sumbhulpoor ( Sambhalpura ). — This district takes it name from the capital* 
but the Raja is styled Raja Autaraghur, or the Raja of 18 ibrts. To the north 
it is bounded by Choteesghur and Gangpoor ; on the south by various petty 
states in the province of Orissa, dependent on the British government; to 
the east it has Orissa; and on the west Choteesghur or Ruttunpoor. The cli- 
mate of Sumbhulpoor is very unwholesome, owing to the quantity of jungle, 
and the vicissitudes of heat and cold. The soil in the vallies is said tb be a 
rich loam, in which grain or pulse will thrive well, and the mountains have the 
reputation of containing 'diamonds. The natives wash the sand of the, rills 
that descend from them, and procure considerable quantities of gold. The dia- 
monds are found about 13 miles beyond the town of Sumbhulpoor, near the 
junction of the river Hebe with the Mahanuddy, at which spot, after the rains, 
the natives search in the river for red earth, washed down from the mountains, in 
which earth the diamonds are discovered. The matrix containing the diamonds 
is a clay, which appears burned red, nearly to the* degree that bricks usually are. 

The territory of Sumbhulpoor was anciently comprehended in the Hindoo 
division pf Gundwana, and composed part of the state of Gurrah; but during 
the reign of Aurengzebe it was formally annexed to the soubah of Allahabad, 
although its subjugation to the Mogul government was little more than nominal. 
It afterwards, along with the rest .of the province, fell under the sway of ttie 
Nagpoor Maharattas, and during the war of 1803, was captured by the British 
government, as also the adjacent district of Patna, certain treaties being entered 
into with the feudatories, who held them under the Raja of Nagpoor. In Au- 
gust 18(56, adverting to the friendly relations then subsisting with the Nagpoor 
state, the British government agreed to restore the territories of Sumbhulpoor 
and Patna, consisting of the following pergunnahs, viz. Sumbhulpoor* Sohnpoor, 
Saurungur, Burgur, Saktee, Serakole, Benria, Bonee, Kartickpoor, Patna, Khas 
Patna, Nawagur, Gharilano, Tanagur, and Boora Sumbah. To these cessions, 
however, the Zemindars of Sumbhulpoor and Patna opposed so effectual a resis- 
tance, that in 1807, the Nagpoor state was obliged to solicit the assistance of 
the British government, being unable itself to raise funds sufficient to equip an 
adequate force. Mr. Elphinstone, who then Tesided as ambassador at Nagpoor, 
was in consequence directed to interpose with the zemindars, many of whom 
refused to be thus transferred, and as the British government was bound by 
treaty either to support them in their independence, or to find 



OP GUNDWANA. 


SOHNPOOR.] 


21 


tions within its own territories, it was compelled to adopt the latter alternative. 
One chief. Raja Jounsar Singh of Ryeghur, uniformly refused either to submit 
to the Nagpoor state, although enclosed by its territories, or to accept an indem- 
nity in the British provinces. He was in consequence excepted from the transfer, 
and continued under the protection of the British, to their great inconvenience, as 
the local situation of his lands gave rise to incessant disputes between him and 
the officers of the Nagpoor government. 

After trying open force without success, the Maharattas in 1808 obtained pos- 
session of Sumbhulpoor by an act of the most deliberate treachery. In eftectu- 
atingthis, they first entered into a solemn engagement, confirmed by oaths and 
religious ceremonies, by the conditions of which the Ranny, or Queen, on pay- 
ing up arrears and settling the future amount of the revenue, was to be left in 
independent possession. Having thus lulled her suspicions, they took advan- 
tage of her confidence, suddenly attacked her troops, and took the fortress by 
surprise. The Ranny being thus perfidiously assailed escaped with great diffi- 
culty, and arrived in much distress on the British frontier* where she solicited and 
received protection from the government, and to support her dignity had a pen- 
sion of 600 rupees per month assigned. In 1818 the sovereignty of Sumbhulpoor 
was transferred to the British government ; but the arrangements for its settle- 
ment are still only in progtess, the plan contemplated being the same as that 
detailed under the article Sirgooj ah. Within the limits of this territory, about 
37 miles N. W. from the town of Sumbhulpoor, is the tomb of Mr. Elliott, whose 
untimely death is lamented in Mr. Hastings* celebrated ode. — (1st Register, 
J. Grant, Leckit , Public MS. Documents, Roughsedge , §c. &;c. 8$c.) 

Sumbhulpoor. — The capital of the preceding subdivision of the Gundwana 
province, is situated on the east-side of the Mahanuddy river, 167 miles W.N.W 
from Cuttack. Lat. 21° 8' N. long. 83° 37' E. 

Narrah. — A town in the province of Gundwana, 70 miles W.by S. from Sum- 
bhulpoor. Lat. 20° 53' N. long. 82° 33' E. 

Patna. — A town and large zemindary in the province of Gundwana, contiguous 
to the district of Sumbhulpoor. Along with the adjacent territories it was trans- 
ferred to the British government in 1818, and in 1819 was much disturbed by the 
refractory conduct of Achil Singh, of Boorasumber, a powerful and savage zemin- 
dar, in a state of rebellion against the British government. 

Sohnpoor. — This town stands on the west side of the Mahanuddy river, but 
a great proportion of the lands attached to it lie to the east of that river in the 
province of Orissa. Lat. 20° 22' N. long. 83° 42' E. 155 miles west from Cuttack. 
By the arrangements of 1803, the Sohnpoor chief, on the condition of his faith- 
fully performing the duty of tributary to the British government, had his estates 



22 THE PROVINCE [ruttunpoor. 

guaranteed to him, and was declared exempted from the payment of any tribute 
to the Maharattas. 

Choteesghur (or Ruttunpoor.) — A large district in the province of Gund- 
wana, of which it comprehends the central and most fertile portion. By the 
Mahommedans it was frequently denominated Jeharcund ; but the name properly 
applies to the whole province rather than any particular subdivision. Chotees- 
ghur (36 forts), formerly in its most extensive sense was said to comprehend 
20,000 square miles, partly composed of a mountainous tract, or unprofitable 
jungles, which last circumstance acquired to the country the name of Jeharcund. 
To the south of Ruttunpoor, this district is a champaign country, abundantly 
watered with little rivers, full of villages, and ornamented with groves and tapks. 
In the vicinity of Ryepoor considerable quantities of wheat and vegetabl§s\ are 
produced. Rice is not abundant, it being only cultivated behind large reservoirs 
of water, in situations where the declivity of the land is suitable. 

Large quantities of grain are exported from Choteesghur, all over the Nizam s 
dominions, and even to the Northern Circars ; from the latter salt is imported, 
and retailed at an extravagant price. The villages are numerous, but poor; and 
the country abounds in cattle and brood mares of the tattoo species. On the 
whole, this territory is but thinly inhabited. Foreign merchants bring a few 
horses, elephants, camels, and shawls for sale ; but the principal part of the com- 
merce is carried on by the Brinjarries, or itinerant grain dealers. In 1794, it 
was said, that in plentiful seasons they could employ 100,000 bullocks in export- 
ation, and it is comparatively one of the most productive portions of the Nag* 
poor dominions. The Hatsoo and Carroon are the largest rivers ; the principal 
towns are Ruttunpoor and Ryepoor. The boundaries to the north begin at .'the 
village of Noaparah, which consists of only a few miserable huts. Choteesghur 
was anciently comprehended in the Hindoo province of Gundwana, and com- 
posed part of the state of Gurrah ; but during the reign of Aurengzebe it was 
formally annexed to the soubah of Allahabad, although but nominally subjected 
to the Mogul empire. In 1752, it was conquered by the first Rugojee Bhoonsla, 
and has ever since continued in the possession of -the Maharatta Rajas of Nag- 
poor. — ( J. Grant , J. B. Blunt , <§*c. Sfc.) 

Ruttunpoor ( Ratnapura , the toyn of Gems J — This is the capital of the 
Choteesghur district, and is situated in latitude 22° 21' N. long. 82* 25' B, 85 
miles E. S. E. from Mundlah. Although Ruttunpoor is the head-quarters an 
extensive and tolerably fertile district ; yet it is only an extensive and ijReggling 
village, consisting of about 1000 huts, many of which, in 1794, wete uninhabited. 
The surrounding country is remarkably productive and wdi cultivated, when 
ismMmmi with, the rest of the desolate province of which it forms 4 component 



mundlah.] *0F GUNDWANA. 23 

part. By the nearest travelling road, Ruttunpoor is 296 miles from Chunar. Its 
chief is frequently styled, the Raja of Choteesghur, or of 36 fortresses. 

Near to the town is an idol, made of blue, granite, about nine feet in height, 
rubbed oyer with red paint, and adorned with flowers. In. the neighbourhood 
are a great many pools and tanks, and also a lake, the embankment of which is 
nearly two miles in length, aid there are many ruins in the neighbourhood indi- 
cative of a superior state of society to that which at present exists. In the year 
1760, after Mr. Law was made prisoner, a party of 120 French who had been 
under his command endeavoured to effect a retreat from Bahar into the Deccan. 
They halted and were entertained for a few days by Bimbajee, the Maharatta 
chief ; but at the end of that time he put them all treacherously to death. 
Travelling distance from Calcutta, by Chuta Nagpoor, 493 miles; from Nagpoor 
220 miles ; from Delhi 633 ; and from Poonah 706 miles.— (J. B. Blunt, Leckie, 
1st Register , Rennell, §c.) 

Niagur.— A town in the province of Gundwana, 32 miles south from Omer- 
cuntuc. Lat. 22° 26' N. long. 82° 4' E. 

Nowaghur. — A town in the Gundwana province, situated at the junction of 
the Hatspo with the Mahanuddy river, 75 miles N. W. from Sumbhulpoor. Lat. 
20°49'N. long. 82° 43' E. 

Mallaver. — A village in the province of Gundwana, the residence of a Gond 
chief, 12 miles south from Ruttunpoor. From Bouslagur to this place, a dis- 
tance of 50 miles, the road is through a country which is one continued wilder- 
ness. In this neighbourhood there is a small fcubacid plum of a very pleasant 
taste, which grows wild .— ( J. B. Blunt, $c.) 

Ryepoor.— This town, from its population and commerce, might rank as the 
first in the Choteesghur district. It contains about 3000 huts, and there is a 
stone fort on the north-east side, the walls of which are decayed, but the ditch 
is deep and wide. Lat. 21° 15' N. long. 82° 13' E. 190 miles east from Nagpoor. 
The soil in this neighbourhood is a rich black mould, nowhere more than three 
feet in depth, under which is found the solid yopk, as is perceptible in all the beds 
of rivers, and in the sides of tanks and wells. The only* road from Cuttuck to 
Nagpoor passes through this town. — (J. B. Blunt, 8$c.) 

Bunjaree Ghaut. — A pass among the hills in the province of Gundwana, 
1 15 milesS. W. from Ruttunpoor. Lat. 21° 8' N. long. 81° 7' E. This is so high a 
spot of ground, that it causes the rivers to take opposite courses. — (Leckk,$c.) 

Kyraghur ( Kshiraghar ). — A town in the province of Gundwana, 138 miles 
east from Nagpoor, Lat. 21° 16' N. long. 81° 22'E. 

Mundlah ( Mandala ).—A district in the province of Gundwana, formerly sub- 
ject to Nagpoor, situated principally on the north-side of th$ Nerbudda river* and 



24 THE PROVINCE [at wea*, 

extending to within a short distance of its source at Omercuntuc. It was ceded 
to the British government in 1818, along with the north-eastern quarter 'of the 
Gundwana province. 

Mundlah. — A town on the banks of the Nerbudda, which was one of the 
ancient capitals of the Hindoo province, and furnished its name to the adjacent 
district. Lat. 22° 42 f N. long. 81° 2' E. 155 miles N. E. from Nagpoor. In mo- 
dern times it has been one of the Nagpoor Raja’s principal fortresses^ and was 
ceded by him to the British government in 1818; but the garrison refused to 
deliver it up, in consequence of which a detachment was marched against it, 
under General Marshall, which, in advancing, had to pass through a very jungly 
and hilly territory, especially from Dhamonee, where the roads were almost 
impracticable. The town was taken by assault on the 26th April, 1818, with 
scarcely any loss (three killed and 14 wounded) on the part of the assailant*; 
but the enemy suffered most severely, and fell in heaps under a destructive fire 
while endeavouring to escape from the place. On the 27th April, the garrison 
of the fort, being quite dispirited by the slaughter of the day before, came out 
unarmed, and surrendered at discretion, to the number of about twelve hundred. 
This being accomplished, the chief officers of the garrison were tried by a court 
martial for treachery and rebellion ; but they were acquitted, there being no 
doubt on the minds of the members of the court, that although ostensibly 
directed by the Nagpoor Raja to surrender, they had secret orders from the 
same authority desiring them to resist . — ( General Marshall, 8$c.) 

Guru ah ( Ghara ). — A large district in the province of Gundwana, situated 
about the 23d degree of north latitude, and intersected by the Nerbudda and 
some of its tributary streams. The town of Gurrah stands in lat. 23° N. 
long. 80° 16' E. 150 miles N. N. E. from the city of Nagpoor. In the remote 
times of Hindoo antiquity, this was the seat of a considerable Hindoo princi- 
pality, which comprehended Bhatta, Sohagepoor, Choteesghur, Sumbhulpoor, 
Gangpoor, Jushpoor, and other contiguous districts. In the reign of Aurengzebe 
the division ot Bhatta or Baundhoo, consisting of the six divisions above men- 
tioned, was considered as a new conquest, although it had before been partially 
subjected and was formally annexed to the soubah of Allahabad. The real di- 
mensions of the Gurrah district are very uncertain, but it is known to occupy 
a considerable portion of the valley through which the Nerbudda flows, and 
that it comprehends a large tract of fertile, but in most places uncultivated and 
thinly peopled land. The principal towns are Jubbulpoor, Gurrah# Panagur, 
and Sirrenuggur ; the whole of which, in 1818, were ceded to the British go- 
vernment. In the town of Gurrah there was formerly a mint establish ed, in 
which an inferior rupee current in Bundetaind, named the balls shahy* was 



chupearah.] OF GUNDWANA. 25 

coined. The modem town of Gurrah standi in a most singular pass, and ex- 
tends through, and along, the face of a mountainous ridge for about two miles. 
In 1817, after the action at Jubbulpoor, when General Hardyman’s detachment 
marched past it, the rocky heights were covered with inhabitants, the town 
having been nearly deserted. — (Leckie i Fitzclarence , 8$c. 8$c.) 

Jubbulpoor. — The modem capital of the provinces which formerly belonged 
to the Nagpoor Raja, north of the Nerbudda, situated in lat. 23° 11' N. long. 
80° 16' E, 153 miles N. N. E. from the city of Nagpoor. Jubbulpoor, being the 
seat of government and residence of several wealthy bankers, is better built and 
presents a more animated appearance of industry than most of the towns in this 
quarter of India. During the rains it is so enclosed by water that cavalry could 
not march 30 miles in any direction. A party of the Nagpoor Raja’s troops in 
December, 1817, were here routed and dispersed with considerable slaughter by 
a detachment under General Hardyman, the result of which was the evacuation of 
the fortified town of Jubbulpoor, and the capture of several guns and a quantity 
of military stores. A provincial government was subsequently established for 
the administration of justice and collection of the revenue, of which, up to 
March, 1818, sixty thousand rupees had been already realized . — ( Fitzclarence , 
Public Journals , S$c. 8$c.) 

Bedaghur ( Vedaghar). — A town in the province of Gundwana, 9 miles S. W. 
from Gurrah. Lat, 23° 5' N. long. 80° 9' E. 

Panagur. — A town in the Gurrah district of some antiquity, and containing 
a considerable number of Hindoo temples. Lat. 23° 19' N. long. 80° 17' E. 11 
miles north from Gurrah. In the neighbourhood there is a magnificent tank, 
and in 1817, the surrounding country in general was in a high state of cultiva- 
tion. — (Fitzclarence, §c.) 

Sirrenagur (Srinagar a). — A town in the Gurrah district, 130 miles N.by E. 
from Nagpoor. Lat, 22° 57' N. long. 79° 55' E. In 1818, a party of the Raja 
of Nagpoor s troops were defeated by a detachment under Colonel Macmorine. 

Doomah. — A town in the Gundwana province, 120 miles N. E. by N. from 
Nagpoor. Lat. 22° 46' N. long. 80* 5' E. 

Chupparah. — A town in the province of Gundwana, situated on the Bein 
Gunga river, 95 miles N. N. E. from the city of Nagpoor. Lat. 22° 24' N. long, 
79° 58' E. This plaee is famous for the manufacture of iron, a great quantity of 
which is carried into the British provinces. A considerable district in this part of 
Gundwana is held by a Patan chief, who received it in jaghire from the first 
Rogojee Bhoonsla, as a reward for services during.his conquest of Gundwana, 
and the northern parts of Berar, The town is consequently chiefly inhabited by 

vox,.;!!. x 



96 THE PROVINCE [rueaxoirn. 

Afghans, and along with the district was, in 1818, ceded to the British govern* 
ment. — (Leckie, <§'c. §c.) 

Seouny. — A town in the province of Onndwana, 74 miles N. E. by N. from 
Nagpoor. Lat. 22° 3' N. long. 79° 55' E. 

Mehkoor. — In the time of the Emperor Acber, this district was compre- 
hended in his undefined province of Berar, and by Abul Fazel, in the Ayeen 
Acberry, A. D. 1582, is described as follows : — “ Mehkoor is a populous country^ 
situated between two of the southern range of mountains of this soubah, one of 
which is called Bundeh (Vindha,) and on the top of it are many forts, viz. Ka- 
weel, Nemullah, Meelgur, Mehawee, Beroosha, and Ramghur.” 

Kheirlah. — This district occupies the western extremity of the Gundvifana 
province, and consists principally of several ranges of hills with intervening 
vallies, through which flow various small streams, but the country has as yet 
been but little explored. The principal town is Shahpoor. 

Calygono Hills. — A range of hills which separates the Gundwana province 
that of Khandesh, and situated between the Nerbudda and Tuptee rivers. 

Chouraghur. — A strong fortress in the province of Gundwana, 60 miles E. 
by S. from Hosseinabad. This place stands at the northern extremity of the 
Mahadeo hills, and like Dhamonee and Mundlah refused to obey the ostensible 
orders of surrender from Nagpoor, the governor having private instructions to 
the contrary. On the 12th of May, 1818, however, the town was evacuated by 
the enemy, and next day the fort also, when both were occupied by a detach- 
ment of the army under General Watson. In November of the same year the 
Gonds, who appear to have grown into favour with themselves, made a very spi- 
rited attempt to retake Chouraghur, but were repulsed with much slaughter. 

Gundwana Proper. — This is an extensive district, and the principal abode 
of the Gonds, who appear to have been the aboriginal natives of this portion of 
India, but it is impossible to assign it any definite limits, the country having 
only very recently become accessible to men qualified to describe it. 

Jilpy Aumnair. — A fortress in the Gundwana province, situated on the 
south bank of the Tuptee, on the high road between the Deopahar hills and 
Aseerghur. Lat. 21° 28' N. long. 76° 56' E. 42 miles E. by N. from fioorhan- 
poor. 

Pcchmunee. — The table land of Puchmunee, where Appa Saheb the ex- 
Raja of Nagpoor spent the rainy season of 1818, is about 30 miles in circum- 
ference, presenting everywhere beautiful prospects. The celebrated spring of 
Mahadeo, from which the lofty range of mountains acquires it name, issues from 
a cave in a rock, about 120 feet in extent, the water being about two feet in 



chanda.] OF GUNDWANA. 27 

depth. This well is situated in a valley, and not on a pinnacle of the Mahadeo 
hills as has been asserted. — (Public Joumal$ t fyc.) 

Baitool. — A large fortified town situated near the sources of the Tuptee, 56 
miles N, N. E. from Elliehpoor. Lat. 21° 55' N. long. 78° 4' E. From Barooly 
Ghaut to Baitool is a table land well cultivated with wheat, sugar cane, grain, 
and other pulses. The village is populous, and stands in a fertile valley near the 
ancient cusba of Kurreem, now in ruins, and three miles distant. — (\2 th Register , 

Mooltate. — A large town with a fort, near the sources t?f the Tuptee, 68 
miles N. W. from Nagpoor. Lat. 21° 45' N. long. 77° 22' E. 

JViAssoop. — A town in the Gundwana province, 46 miles N.E. from Elliehpoor. 
Lat. 21° 35' N. long. 78° 13' E. 

Maisdy. — A town in the Gundwana province, 30 miles N. from Elliehpoor. 
Lat. 21° 38' N. long. 77° 44' E. 

Sautneir. — A town in the Gundwana province, 32 miles N. N. E. from El- 
lichpoor. Lat. 21° 36' N. long. 77° 55' E. 

Nagpoor District. — This division of the Gundwana province comprehends 
i considerable tract of country, adjacent to the city of Nagpoor, which the 
Bhoonsla family were accustomed to retain under their own immediate manage- 
ment, and which was in fact the only portion of their territories the revenues of 
which were realized without the intervention of an army. The whole of it is 
still attached to the Nagpoor sovereignty, but the revenues are collected for the 
present by British Officers under the supervision of Mr. Jenkins, the resident. 

P6wnee. — A large fortified town in the Gundwana province, 31 miles S. E. 
from the city of Nagpoor. Lat. 20° 55' N. long. 79° 42' E. It was taken by 
assault on tbe-7tlr October, 1818,,% admail detachment under Major Wilson. 

Awmnier. — T his is a large and populous town situated on the Wurda* which 
is here m January a very small stream, and easily passed. It runs over a rocky 
bed and forms a number of small cascades. Lat. 21° 25' N. long. 78° 30' E. 50 
miles, N. by W. from the city of Nagpoor. 

Am boh a. — A town in the Gundwana province, 41 miles E. by S. from the city 
of Nagpoor. Lat. 21° T N. long. 79° 44' E. 

Masood. — A town in the province- of Gundwana, 50 miles W. by S. from 
Nagpoor. Lat. 21° N. long. 78° 30' E. 

Dewly.-t-A town in the province of Gundwana, 56 miles S, W. from Nag- 
poor. Lat. 20° 43' N. long. 78 e 33' E. 

Hingungaaut. — A town in the province of Gundwana, 45 miles S. W. from 
Nagpoor, Lat. 20° 37' N- long. 78° 54' E. 

CNanda (Chandra. ike Moan).— This extensive district occupies a great 



28 THE PROVINCE [conicair. 

proportion of the Nagpoor Raja’s dominions, situated to the south of the city 
of Nagpoor, and bounded on the west by the Wurda an&Godavery rivers. Com* 
pared with the Gond hills to the north, this is a champaign country, the soil of 
which is sandy, and there is a perceptible difference between its climate and that 
of the Gond mountains. The produce is chiefly rice with small quantities of 
jiulse and sugar cane, but the inhabitants possess numerous flocks of sheep and 
goats. Cotton is also exported from hence, some of which travels so far as the 
Northern Circars. During the reign of Aurengzebe this remote division of Gund- 
wana was annexed to that soubah, although scarcely penetrated By the Mogul 
forces. The principal towns are Chanda and Hingunghaut. — (J. B. Blunt, 
J '. Grant , $$c.) i 

Chanda (or Toork Chanda ). — A strongly fortified and populous town\ the 
capital of the preceding district, situated in lat. 20° 4' N. long. 79° 22' E* 80 
miles south from the city of Nagpoor. In consequence of the rupture with the 
Nagpoor Raja, tins place was invested by the Bengal detachment under Colonel 
Adams, and on the 13th of May, 1818, the erection of batteries commenced. 
Terms were offered to the garrison, but the native messenger who was sent never 
re-appeared, and is supposed to have been murdered. On the 20th of May the 
assault was given at the breach, which was large enough, and of such easy ascent 
as to admit of a horse artillery gun being run up. The garrison, consisting of 
about 3000 men, made an ineffectual resistance, and sustained a loss of between 
4 and 500 men. The loss on the British side was very small and principally 
occasioned by fatigue and the excessive heat, the thermometer during the assault 
having risen to 145° of Fahrenheit in the sun. From this cause Major Goreham 
of the Madras artillery died ten hours after the place was taken, and two other 
- British officers lost their lives in a similar manner. The storm of Chanda closed 
the campaign of 1817-18 in this quarter, Chouraghur having already been eva- 
cuated on the approach of the army under Brigadier General Watson. — ( Public 
Journals , &;c. fyc* S;c.) 

Deoghur. — This district is situated between the 20th and 21st degrees of 
north latitude, and latterly has been comprehended in the larger district of 
Chanda, to which town it is contiguous. It is intersected by the Waingunga river, 
and being fertile has always yielded a considerable revenue to the Nagpoor state. 

Wyraghur. — A town in the Gundwana province, 74 miles N. E. from Nag- 
“poor. Lat. 20° 31' N. long. 80° T E. 

Log ur. — A town in the Gundwana province, 125 miles S. E. from the city 
Nagpoor. Lat. 20° 19' N. long. 80° 56' E. 

Conkair. A town in the province of Gundwana, situated between a high 
rocky hill, and the south bank of the Mahaauddy $0*90 If* Jong, 



bustar.] OF GUNDWANA, 29 

82° T E. On the summit of the hill in 1794, there was a small fort mounting 
two guns. The country about Conkair is much covered with high woods, and 
the town entirely surrounded by hills, inhabited by wild Gond mountaineers, 
this being one of the tracts originally possessed by the Rajas of Gundwana. 
The frontier of the Bustar country is 12 miles distant from Conkair, and is entered 
through the Tillyghajuty, a very rugged and steep pass over the hills. — (J. B. 
Blunt , 8$c.) 

Bvraghur ( Vairaghar ). — A town in the province of Gundwana, 76 miles 
S. W. from Sumbhulpoor. Lat. 20° 18' N. long. 82° 55' E. This place formerly 
belonged to Chanda, and the country still bears that name, although they sub- 
sequently made separate governments. It is considered by the Maharattas, whose 
authority is well established here, as a strong town, which in 1794 consisted of 
about 300 thatched and tiled houses. It has a stone fort on the north-west side, 
under the east face of which runs the Kobragur, which afterwards falls into the 
Wainy, or Baumgunga, Byraghur is a place of some traffic, and much frequented 
by Brinjarries (itinerant merchants) from Choteesghur, and the Northern Circars. 
The trade is principally in cotton, which is brought from the north-west parts 
of Berar and Choteesghur. This article is purchased by merchants from the 
Circars, who give in exchange salt, betel and coco nuts. — ( J. B. Blunt , 8$c.) 

Arim. — A town in the province of Gundwana, 75 miles W. S. W. from Sum- 
bhulpoor. Lat. 20° 37' N. long. 82°. 36' E. About 40 years ago this place was 
possessed by a Gond chief, tributary to the Raja of Nagpoor. It was then a 
large and more flourishing village than was usually to be found in these unwhole- 
some tracts, as it contained some weavers and was frequented by itinerant mer- 
chants. — ( Leckie , 8$c.) 

Bustar (or Wasatairee ). — A town and district in the province of Gundwana, 
170 miles from Ganjam. Lat. 19° 31' N. long. 82° 28' E. In 1812, Ram Chun- 
der Wag was dispatched on the part of the Nagpoor government to levy 81,000 
rupees in the division of Bustar, to defray the expense of supporting his troops, 
of which sum 25,000 rupees were to be demanded from Muhee Pal Deo, the 
zemindar of Bustar. A portion of the above sum he was compelled to make 
good, and for the security of the remainder he deposited a bracelet of jewels, 
which the Nagpoor ministers, on examination, declared to be composed of felse 
stones. The zemindar on the other hand asserted, that the bracelet had been 
received without objection, and that if the stones were false they must have been 
substituted after the ornament went out of his custody. In these disputes the 
zemindar of Jyapoor, a British feudatory in Orissa, was also implicated, as he 
had'becotae security for the Bustar chief, while his own estate, although for 
political reasons assessed remarkably low, was attached for arrears of revenue. 



GUNDWANA 


30 


[BADBACIlS&LUXf. 


Prior to this affair disputes had subsisted between these two zemindars, re- 
specting a tract of land, claimed on the one hand by the Jyapoor proprietor, and 
on the other by the chief of Bustar, which had led to mutual depredations. The 
Jyapoor zemindar accused his antagonist of having seized on the extensive estates 
of'Ryagudda, Ameraqotta, and Peddagudda, which had been for a length of 
time in his family ; but the loss in a pecuniary point of view appears to haVe 
been very insignificant when compared with their geographical dimensions, as 
their whole revenue was only 150 rupees per annum, and their possession very 
undesirable to any government. On this occasion much inconvenience was ex- 
perienced in consequence of the zemindar of Jyapoor, a British feudatory, (Also 
holding lands under the Nagpoor state, as, depending on the protection of -his 
European superior, he was much disposed to act contumaciously towards the 
other, which had not at command the same efficacious means of coercion. The 
Bustar country has in recent times been more than once held by the Poospati 
family, and had again reverted to the Nagpoor state. The country of Bustar 
is known to very difficult of access and extremely unhealthy. The Gond 
portion of the inhabitants are probably among the wildest of the aborigines of 
Hindostan, and a^e described, both men and women, as going about in a state 
of complete nakedness. — ( Public MS. Documents , J. B . Blunt , F. W. Robertson , 
#c. tjfC.) / 

Doudpoor ( Daudpur ). — A town in the province of Gundwana, 42 niles 
E. by S. from Bustar. Lat. 19° 22' N. long. 83° 7 E. 

Dewilmurry (Devalayamari). — This is one of the most considerable Gond 
hamlets in the country, and has an extensive spot of ground cleared round it. 
It is situated} on the east bank of the Baumgunga river, which is here a consider** 
able stream, being augmented by the junction of the Wurda and Wainy Gunga 
rivers, labout six miles to the north. Lat. 19° 7' N., long, 81 d 30'E. 150 miles 
N. from the town of Rajamundry. — (J, B. Blunt , §c.) 

Badrachellum ( Bhadrachalam , the sacred mountain ). — A town in Gund- 
wana, situated on the east side of the Gbdavery river, 78 miltes N. by W. frcjtn 
Rajamundry. Lat. W 57' N. long. 81° 17' E. At this, place the zemindar of 
Poloonshah collects taxes 6n all goods passing through his, country. The mer- 
chandize is generally cotton exported frpm the interior to the Northern Gircars, 
importing from thence in exchange salt and coco nuts. At Badrachellum there 
is a pagoda of high repute, sacred to Seeta; 200 yards to the south of which the 
town, consisting of about 100 huts, is situated: the whole surrounded with much 
jungle. In the middle of the bed of the Godavery, near to this place, the natives 
assert that there is a hot spring. — (J. B. Blunt, Heyne, %c.) 



THE PROVINCE OF ORISSA. 

(UDDESSA.) 


A.,large province of the Deccan extending from the 18th to the 23d degree of 
north latitude. To the north it is bounded by Bengal ; on the south by the 
river Godavery ; on the east it has the bay of Bengal ; and on the west the 
province of Gundwana. In length from N. E. to S. W. it may be estimated 
at 400 miles, by 70 the average breadth. According to the institutes of Acber, 
Orissa, in its greatest dimensions in 1582, was divided into five districts; viz. 
JeUasir, comprising Midnapoor and the British possessions lying north and east 
of the river Subunreeka; 2. Buddruck; 3. Cuttack; 4. Culling or Cicacole; 
5 . Rajamundry. Besides this territory on the sea coast, Orissa also compre- 
hended a mountainous unproductive region on the western frontier, making part 
of the Jeharcund or jungly country, with the districts of Ruttunpoor and Sum- 
bhnlpoor ; but the two latter properly belong to Gundwana. At present the 
principal 'modem territorial subdivisions, commencing from the north, are the 
following ; but there are many other petty states and large zemindaries. 

1. Singhboom. 3. Mohurbunge. 5. Cuttack. 

2. Kunjeur. 4. Balasore. 6. Khoordah. 

The tracts composing the districts of Ganjam, Vizagapatam, and a portion of 
Rajamundry, are also included within the ancient limits of this province, but 
the five northern circars have been so long a separate jurisdiction, that it has 
been thought best to describe them altogether in another section. The interior 
of this province remains in a very savage state, being composed of rugged hills, 
uninhabited jungles, and deep water courses, surrounded by pathless deserts, 
forests, or vallies, and pervaded by a pestilential atmosphere. It forms a strong 
natural barrier to the maritime districts, being only traversed during the driest 
season, from February to May, by the Lumballies or inland carriers. There are 
wily two passes, properly explored, in the whole length of the great mountainous 
ridge, extending from the Godavery to the Mahanuddy; the one direct from 
Chanda to Cicacole ; the other oblique from Choteesghur by the way of Kala- 
hindi; both uniting at the pass of Saloor or Sauraccca. By this pins, during the 



32 THE PROVINCE 

{ 1 % ? 

French possession of the Northern Circars in 1764, a body of Maharattas were 
introduced; more than half perished from the noxious air of the hills, and the 
remainder, rather than return by so noxious a road, made a prodigious circuit 
south by Rajamundry and the Godavery. With such a^arrier to the west, and 
the ocean to the east, the defence of Orissa does.aot appear difficult ; the jea- 
lousies, however, of a people subdivided into rilany petty communities, the 
absence of civilization, added to the habitual indolence and apathy of the natives, 
ever rendered it an easy prey to invaders, and they have passed from one yoke 
to another with scarcely a struggle. 

In ancient Hindoo history, Utcala or Udradesa was nearly co-extensive with 
the modern Orissa, the name Utcala, or Udcala, implying the great or fimohs 
country of the Cala. According to tradition, it was then inhabited by a powerful 
and martial race, who were extirpated by the Karnas or kings of Magadhi? (Bahar), 
In more recent times it was governed by a dynasty of Hindoo princes of the race 
of Gujaputty, who, in 1592, were conquered by Mansingh, the Emperor Acbers 
viceroy in Bengal, to which dominion it was then annexed as a dependent 
government, extending from Tumlook on the Great Ganges to Rajamundry on 
the Lesser Ganges, or Gunga Godavery of the Deccan. From the accounts of 
ancient European travellers, fragments of national history, and a few remnants 
of former splendour, it was probably, at least on the sea-coast, a flourishing 
country before the Mahommedan invasion, but soon after fell into a comparative 
state of depression. It does not appear, however, that the Mahommedans, or any 
other invaders, ever completely occupied or colonized this province, which still 
remains one of those in which the Hindoo manners are preserved in their greatest 
purity, and where the smallest proportion of Mahommedans is to be found. 
After the expulsion of the Afghans from the province of Bengal during the 
reign of the Emperor Acber, they retreated into Orissa, and retained possession 
of the maritime and more fertile portions, and also of the temple of Juggemaujth, 
for many years. 

At present nearly one half of this extensive region is .under the immediate 
jurisdiction of the British government ; the other possessed by tributary zemin- 
dars called Ghurjauts or hill chiefs, who mostly pay a fixed rent, and are under 
British protection, so far as refers to their external relations, and some few are 
directly amenable to the European courts of justice. The first division compre- 
hends all the low lands trending along the coast; the second the hilly and 
woody interior. The British half is in general a plain, fertile, but not well 
cultivated or peopled; the native section is either a barren tract or wild expanse 
of rock, forest, and jungle, thinly inhabited, yet producing a surplus of grain 
beyond the consumption of its inhabitants. The udmbttnnts of the tot may 



ur ORISSA. 


~ — oo 

at 100 lotto iqiigp gulf, of tbesecosd not non than 30 to tlw 

«"■ manufacture „ ^ BntM. ponjoo ^ 

iah ft Kit.n!rL i * “ . ^ a m0DO P° 1 y* ^rds much employment to the 

mhab.tant.on the coast; the fonner is the staple commodity of the orolcT 

cultivated* and^the e 40 **“* ° f e *P ortation - Every sort of^rain and vetch k 
Mti>« i tchT° n T aCtUreS 8uffice for *»gal habits of the 
probable this division !l r ^ mstan ^ es » and Wlth a mild government, it is highly 

Of timber, thus protracting a miserable existencl under the iron rod^fS^ 
rapacious chiefs, in whose eves to be wealthv nr WM rod of **» 

The territories along the bay o7bIS L *“*“*»>• 
which greatly injure the farmerf and the^ow landsTn ritalZF* l**?™*’ 
liable to ruinous inundations from the sudden overflowing of rivers The^ffi,?**’ 
are a fine large breed, and supply the natives with Jk andTe’ W ** 
are of a very inferior descrintinn «„,i *i.„ . gnee > but the oxen 

abound with hogs, deer, tigers and iae’ als iT^uT 0 "’ The low lands 
wild beasts in such numlrere ^ infested *7 

whidi had been wrested from them by hum^™ ^ C0Untry 

theplainslndjun^: 

the Subunreeka, besides innumerable lull strLns of Mahanudd y* ** 
c^he principal towns 

of ?***»«*«* 

of coarse muslins for turbans : sanaes ^i ?!! ? mber °! weaver8 > chiefly 

^uhoos for palanquins come from the pergunnahs JtSSTU 
They grow near the summit of the rocks P fl JT • . J° lcbm Hindole. 

2: s?! Miected the ^ s; 

into the ground, and thus direct their growth to the r^n.. .v.„ ^ 
“.J* (tow from 10 to 20 y«* long, by 



54 TB® WfcOVlNCB [siyoBooH. 

when their tops ere cut off. If suffered to stand longer, the hollowpait in- 
creases, and they become weaker. 

Some of the native Ooreas in the back parts of this province still retain their 
semi-barbarous manners, are a fierce people, and possess a considerable degree 
of. personal courage. They commonly go armed with bows and arrows, or 
swords ; the latter being generally carried naked, and are of a shape which i* 
broad at the end, and narrow in the middle. Between them and the Maharattas 
a rooted antipathy has long existed. The Ooreas within the British territories, 
having been long accustomed to peaceful inoffensive habits, are good cultivators, 
and tolerably industrious, their chief characteristic being an effeminate timidity 
accompanied by much low cunning and dissimulation. The great body of 1 
are Hindoos, distinguished into the castes usually found in other parts of 
dostan. In a specimen of the Lord’s prayer in the Orissa or Utcala langua 
examined by the missionaries, 31 of the words could be traced as being the 
same with those used in the Bengalese translation of that prayer ; but notwith- 
standing its close affinity to the Bengalese, its peculiar terminations cause the 
whole -specimen to differ much in sound. — (/. Grant, Richardson, Wilkins , Ode* 
brooke, Wilford , #c. 8$c.) 

MIDNAPOOR, HIDJELLEE, AND TUMLOOK. 

These are three subdivisions of the provinoe of Orissa, being all within its 
geographical limits, but they have been such & length of time subordinate to 
the existing governments of Bengal, and io intimately attached to that pro- 
vince, that they have become in a manner incorporated with it, and have in 
consequence been described along with it. 

Subunreek a River ( Suvama Reka, with golden sands.) — This river has its 
source in the province of Bahar, district of Chuta Nagpoor, whence it flows in 
a south-easterly direction, until, after a winding course of about 250 miles, it 
falls into the bay of Bengal. For many years prior to the conquest of Bengal 
by the British, this river had formed the southern boundary of thatsoubah 
under the different native governments, and continued to mark the boundary 
until 1803, when the acquisition of Cuttack brought the Bengal and Madras 
presidencies for the first time into contact. 

Sing booh (Singha Mum, the land of lions).— A. town in the province a t 
Orissa, governed by a Raja, independent within his own territories, but under 
political subordination to the British government It is bounded on three sides 
by tire districts of Chuta Nagpoor, Midnapoor, and Mohoibunge; and on the 
Booth by, that of. Kunjeur. The reminders in this uA ether districts on the 
famtiers ef Midnapoor, were formerly many of them robbers by trade, kept 

' .i, ' -V/ ‘ , ' 


noHcaacKoi.] OF ORISSA., 55 

^ haVe m * hankerin » «ft« their oM profession. 
wMe tributary to the Maharattas, they were under no external confroul, and 

home, magistrates, with unlimited powers of life and death, and accus- 

° n BritWl *"**“*«■ ThetownofSiugboom 

■22L* i N - l0n? ' 860 4<r * 105 •*» Midnapoor, and 

the etymology of the name of the pergunnah, it is notorious 
«t there never was a lion seen within its limit. 

«J*h hi*** (^“"jhar).— This enormous zemindary is situated about 70 miles 

mi? * * 0Wn ° f Cuttack ’ md “ 8aid to extend 182 from north 

towuA, and 126 from east to west, but these are probably the extremes. In 

SiSlrS H K rr wa8 a p0werful chieftain ' wa * tJways considered 

? ara “ a P ° Wer ’ dthou K h P rior to 1803 he rented from die 
Na^oor state a considerable portion of Cuttack, The recorded proprietor in 

w^LT 8 Hi' 011 * Bhunj ’ md ** tribute he P aid to tL British 

l ! Ti* 2790 r “ PeeS PCr annum ' after which il was supposed he would 
have a clear revenue remaining of about 30,000 rupees per annum ; a very small 

■alt rB0 lmmense a surface, producing rice, sugar-cane, cotton, timber, fuel, 

. 1 ’ f^™ 8 ’ wax ’ iro "’ and hone y- Most of the iron exported from Balasore 

to Calcutta is procured m this district, which is also fertilized by several 
streams, but a great proportion of it continues waste, desolate, and covered 
with jungte. The town of Kunjeur stands in lat 21° 31' N. long. 86° 32' EL 92 
mdes N. N.W. from Cuttack.— (Richardton, 8$c. %c. %c.) 

town “ 77 mile. N. N. W. from 

Cuttack. Lat 21° 2T N. long. 86° 24' E. 

Akdapooeohce.— A town in the Orissa province, 48 miles west from Bala, 
lore. Lat. 21° 84' N. long. 86° 5' E. 

Mohuhbcnge.— T his zemindary is bounded on the north by the district of 
ldnapoor; on the east by that of Balasore; on the south by die tributary 

tarth irr md T the we8t b y Gond mountains. In extern^ 

tongdi the territory extends 160 miles, and in breadth 100; but the area is 

much tore than the amount indicated by there dimensions. It is but toLy 
culbvated ' md mach iafeated by wild elephants, which 

ftSSlmf 1 ? 1 th6 Crop8 ‘ T ie Mb y^ timber of wious sizes, which is 
ft^aOTrn to Balasore and other ports. Iron, dammer, and lac, are procured 

5 SS q “I v “? " " u,ce P tib! « of much improvement. 

b l ** predator y bmrnmt of the neighbouring chiefs, 
•Wrmdmrtumteto the Mahreattre, to which power the 

FOOD rupees per annum; but the Spawns then .Hewed to Jibetatexeit 


96 THE PROVINCE [noacneovas. 

on pilgrims going to Juggemauth, which has since the British conquest been 
abolished. 

The principal articles produced and manu&ctured in this territory are, rice, 
timber of all sorts, dammer, oil, lac, bows, arrows, and spears ; a small quantity 
of each being exported. The revenue accruing to toe proprietor has been esti- 
mated at from 40 to 60,000 rupees per annum. Where no battles are fought, 
and the natives remain unmolested by military exactions, and where the zemin- 
dar, or his agent, remain unchanged, the lands of toe Maharatta districts in the 
neighbourhood of Midnapoor are in a state of high cultivation, and the popula- 
tion is equal, frequently superior, to that of the British districts. One -cause 
which tends to increase the population of a well superintended Maharatta 
estate, is the constant accession of numbers by emigration from the neighbor- 
ing countries. It is the interest of the proprietor of a zemindary to take hi 
much care of his cultivators as a farmer does of his cattle, and that is sufficient 
to promote their increase. The peasantry in the Company's territories enjoy 
the degree of security essential to their increase, which is not the case with the 
far greater portion of the Maharatta country ; vast tracts of which are desolate, 
famines frequent, and the population diminishing. 

The principal towns in this subdivision of Orissa, are Harriorpoor and Bus- 
tar. It is not traversed by any large river, but several small bill streams flow 
through it to the Bay of Bengal. This zemindary was formerly of greater ex- 
tent, but was much curtailed by the Maharattas, who separated Balasore and 
other tracts of country from it. During the Maharatta sway, it was a depen- 
dency on Cuttack, but paid also an inconsiderable tribute to the British govern- 
ment, on account of some lands in Midnapoor, north of the Subunreeka river. 
By the arrangements of 1803, the chief of this territory was exempted from 
toe tribute he had paid to the Maharattas, and had his estates guaranteed to 
him, on condition of his faithfully fulfilling his duty as a tributary to toe British 
government. The fixed tribute paid on this account is sufficiently moderate, 
bring only 1001 rupees per annum. 

In 1814, a charge of murder was preferred against Trebikram Bhunje r the 
Person in possession of the tributary zemindary of Mohurbunge. As fitonemin- 
dary was then exempted from the operation of toe British laws and regu lati ons , 
considerable difficulty arose in determining the nature and degree of the punish- 
ment to be inflicted, had toe zemindar been fully convicted of the crime ; but 
the result was, that although strong suspicion attached to him, the evidence 
was not such as satisfactorily to substantiate the acousfit Jfcwjg 
Stuckey, Richardson, J, Grant, Ut Register ,§c. 8$c.) 



vsttot mj OF ORISSA. 97 

Haieiorpoor (Harikarapura).— The capital of the large zemindary of Mo- 
tartafige, and residence of the zemindar. It is situated in lat. 21° 51' N. long. 
88* 48* E. 28 miles N. by W. from Balasore. 

Balasore ( Vakmara ). — A town in the province of Orissa, situated on the 
south ride of the Booree Bellaun river. Lat. 21° 32' N. long. 86° 56' E. 125 
miles S. W. from Calcutta. The town and factory of Balasore are situated in 
a8at country. The river is deep, but narrow; its banks marshy, with a shal- 
low bar at its mouth, but at spring tides passable for vessels drawing not more 
than 14 feet water. It was formerly a flourishing town, but the manufacture of 
Sanaes cloths is very much fallen off both in quantity and quality. At a very 
early period of European intercourse with India, the Portugueze, Dutch, and 
English, had factories here, and it is still noted for maritime transactions. The 
native vessels from Balasore and Cuttack, which carry most of the grain from 
Bengal to Madras, are of a very superior description to other native vessels 
employed on this coast. After having made one voyage to Madras, they usually 
return for a second cargo, which they generally land there in the latter end of 
April, or beginning of May. They afterwards proceed to Coringa, which is a 
favourable fort, both for obtaining repairs, and cargoes of salt to Bengal. Pilots 
for the Calcutta river are procured in Balasore roads. 

On the 29th of November, 1688, during a rupture between the East India 
Company and Aurengzebe, Captain Heath landed a body of troops and seamen, 
attacked and took a battery of 30 pieces of cannon, and plundered the town of 
Balasore. The English factory was burned by the governor, and the Company’s 
servants carried prisoners up the country, from whence it does not appear that 
they ever returned. On the breaking out of the war with the Nagpoor Maha- 
rattas in 1803, an expedition was dispatched against this place, when the troops 
and stores were conveyed in vessels to within four miles of the town, where 
they were landed, and the fort and factory captured after a long contest, but 
with little loss on the part of fhe assailants. They have ever since remained 
attached to the Bengal presidency, and with other pergunnahs form the northern 
division of the Cuttack jurisdiction. The travelling distance from Calcutta to 
Balasore is 141 miles.— (1st Register , Leckie , Bruce , #c. #c. §c.) 

Neelgu a ( Nila Ghara, the Blue House ). — This was formerly the chief town 
of a zemindary, separated by the Maharattas from the Raja of Mohurbunges 
territories, and communicates itp name to the range of hills which extend to the 
west of Midnapoor. Lat. 21° 30' N. long. 86° 47' E. 11 miles west from Baia- 
•ore. In extreme dimensions, this zemindary is about 20 miles from north to 
^ The amount of the tribute paid to rim British 



38 THE PROVINCE* [distmct or 

government, is 3656 rupees ; the estimated gain to the proprietor, 19*000 rup ees. 
There are eight ghurs, or zemindaries, dependent on Neelgur, situated among 
the neighbouring hills. The revenue, during the Maharatta government, arose 
t chiefly from a tax on pilgrims and merchants passing through the country. In 
the Neelgur hills, at a short distance from Balasore, there is abundance of iron 
ore found, of the description named bog ore ; the other articles of produce are 
rice, sugar-cane, bees-wax, oil, and timber, mostly all exported from Balasore. 
(Richardson, 1st Register , 8>c. fyc. fyc.) 

Buddbucx ( Vadarica ). — This place is situated on the north bank ^of the 
Cowah, or Solundee river, which at one season of the year is here 30Q yards 
broad, and at another, fordable. Lat. 21° TN. long. 86° 26' E. 38 miles S^S.W . 
from Balasore. From this part of Orissa, come most of the people termed in 
Calcutta, Balasore bearers.— fist Register, 8$c.) 

THE DISTRICT OF CUTTACK (Catac). 

The tract of country subordinate to the jurisdiction of Cuttack, is very great, 
extending in length from the frontiers of the Ganjam district south, to the river 
Subunreeka north, 180 miles, by an average breadth from the sea inland of 110 
miles ; but the territory of Cuttack Proper is of much less extent, being princi- 
pally comprised between the Chilka lake and the river Sollundee, with an unde- 
fined boundary to the west. What follows, however, may be considered as ap- 
plying to the district generally, and in its greatest dimensions, under which 
point of view it is bounded on the N. E. by Bengal ; on the S« W. by the 
Northern Circars ; to the east it has the bay of Bengal ; and on the west various 
petty native states, formerly tributary to the Nagpoor Maharattas. In its geo- 
graphical position consists the importance of Cuttack connecting as it does 
the Bengal presidency with that of Madras, and thereby placing the whole 
range of the western side of the bay of Bengal within the controul of the British 
government. 

The aspect of the country on the sea coast, and to the westward of it for 
about 20 miles, is low, covered with wood, and totally inundated by the sea at 
spring tides, and into this extent of swamp and forest, the numerous rivers from 
the interior discharge thbir waters through many channels, resembling in fact, 
although not in shape, the Deltas of Bengal and Egypt About 20 miles, from 
the shore, the country rises considerably, with a dry and fertile sod; and about 
20 miles further iubuid, it swells into hills, mostly covered with trees, some of 
a resinous nature, and others valuable for the purposes of cabinet work and 
dyeing. The wood produced on the mm —art in chiefly thcsoondry, foam which 



CUTTACK.] OF ORISSA. 39 

wood oil is extracted, and the janooi. The whole of these forest s are much in- 
fested by wild beasts* especially leopards, which, during the marches of the 
British troops in 1803* devoured many of the sentinels. 

The periodical rains do not commence here so early as in Bengal, and are light 
in comparison* until September, when the rivers rise and overflow their banks ; 
in November the clouds are dispersed, and the weather serene and settled The 
thermometer at any season of the year is seldom below 60°. In February and 
part of March* dense mists are frequent in the morning, continuing until near 
noon, and followed by clear evenings and nights. Hot winds prevail in April* 
May and June, when the summer heats are very oppressive, especially in tents 
and temporary erections ; but this hot season is frequently refreshed by tremen- 
dous hurricanes of thunder, lightning, and rain. This district is still but im- 
perfectly explored* but what is known exhibits a great variety of produce and 
soil. The last on the sea coast is mostly alluvial and soft loam, in some parts 
sandy. A valuable manufacture of salt is carried on along the whole margin of 
the bay ; further inland, rice of different kinds is raised, with many other va- 
rieties of grain, pulse, aromatic roots and spices, dyeing drugs, sugar-cane ; and 
in the hilly tracts, Indian corn, and wheat. These hills contain several kinds of 
granite* and also a species of schistus from which good slates might be made. 
In some parts iron ore is found, and in others gold dust is collected from the 
beds of the mountain torrents. When the rivers are filled by the periodical 
rains* many kinds of valuable timber, including teak, are floated down ; but the 
forests are singularly deleterious, and can only be explored during the months 
of April and May, when the exhalations and consequential forest ague are least 
noxious. In some spots of these hills, the orange clove is found in great perfec- 
tion. The banks of the rivers are extremely picturesque ; and their waters* as 
well as those of the adjacent sea, abound with fish. Both the flat country and 
the faSls swarm with every species of game, including many carnivorous and 
ferocious animals* besides a plentiful assortment of snakes* vermin* and reptiles* 
with and without stings — innocent and poisonous. 

Under the ancient Hindoo governments, it is probable the Raja and priests of 
Jnggemauth had great influence ; but the territory appears to have been always 
much partitioned among petty native chiefs, subordinate to no regular head. It 
was invaded at an early period by the Mahommedans, but never reduced to 
subjection until it was conquered by the Maharattas in 1738, nor even then 
Could it be said to be completely under subjection, according to the European 
mstim of rim word ; with them, however, it remained until 1803, when it was 
conquered by the British* after a feeble resistance. 

Subsequent to the expulsion of the Maharattas* considerable tracts of land 



THE PROVINCE 


40 


pDISTK?€T OF 


remained to be settled, appertaining to tributary Rajas, who professed submis- 
sion but tendered no tribute* Among these was the Juggeraauth, or Khoordah 
Raja, who continued to assert his claim to some estates situated between the 
, town of Cuttack and Juggernauth, of which he endeavoured to obtain posses* 
sion by force ; and on being opposed laid waste all the adjoining country with 
'lire and sword. The British government, on this occasion, endeavoured to 
accommodate matters with the most patient forbearance, until November, 1804, 
when the cruelties perpetrated by the Raja’s officers on prisoners, and the muti* 
lating of sepoys, compelled it to undertake his effectual reduction, and the same 
time to establish subordination among the other petty chiefs. The sanctity of 
the Raja’s character, together with the extreme veneration in which he itf held 
by the natives of Orissa, rendered it difficult to proceed on the occasion, although 
on similar emergencies, the Maharattas had never used the slightest ceremony. 
When these occurred they never hesitated to seize his temporal property, by 
levying a heavy annual tribute, and realizing from the temple the greatest possi- 
ble pecuniary profit. With these independent chieftains it had ever been a 
practice, never to pay any tribute until compelled by force ; generally after 
being worsted in battle, which caused such incessant warfare that military 
adventurers resorted to Cuttack from all parts of Hindostan, and there acquired 
lands and a settlement, particularly a colony of Seiks, for military service. 

To check the depredations of the Khoordah Raja and his subjects, the Maha- 
rattas had built a stQne fort at Sarunghur, on the skirts of his woods, four miles 
S. W. of Cuttack town, which had never been occupied by the British troops, 
the situation being considered so extremely ill chosen ; but in consequence of 
the Raja’s contumacy it became necessary to secure it. A force of nearly 7000 
men, regular and irregular, was also marched in various directions to attack the 
Raja’s army, then posted at Khoordahghur, and amounting by report to 20,000, 
consisting partly of foreign mercenaries mostly foot, and the remainder Ooreas, 
an athletic hardy race, indifferently armed, but when firmly attached not defi* 
cient in personal bravery or resolution. After a variety of operations in a most 
impervious and difficult country, the Raja’s army was dispersed and Khoor- 
dahghur captured ; but such was the adhesion of the natives to the Raja's 
family, that to restore tranquillity while he remained at large was found imprac- 
ticable. Several spirited and well-arranged efforts to catch him did not succeed, 
but at length, being alarmed by a proclamation issued for his apprehension, to 
opened a communication from his concealment, and a confidential officer being 
dispatched in a remote and jungly part of the country, Raja Muckund Deo, 
then (1804) eighteen years of age, was delivered into his custody, befote wtom, 



OF ORISSA. 


CUTTACK.] 


41 


as he passed to the camp, the inhabitants of the adjacent districts came forth 
and prostrated themselves in humble adoration. 

Military operations having for the time in this manner terminated, the Britist 
government proceeded to investigate the condition of their new acquisition, which 
was found to be distinguished from those of the Bengal districts by five peculiar 
cirucmstances, viz. — 

1. The comparatively short period during which it had been possessed. 

2. The unsettled state of the land revenue, involving as it did many important 
claims on the part of individuals, to the immediate possession and management 
of their estates. 

3. The celebrated temple of Juggemauth, an institution strongly affecting the 
religious feelings of the Hindoos on the one side, and the character of the Bri- 
tish government on the other. 

4. The tributary chiefs whose estates and persons are exempted from the 
operation of the general regulations, but who pay a fixed annual revenue to 
government. 

5. The very extensive scale on which the embankments are repaired, and 
consequently the heavy expense to which government is subjected. 

The Mogulbundee, or that portion of Cuttack paying revenue to government, 
and the rents of which are not yet fixed, is distributed into 83 pergunnajhs or re- 
venue divisions, of different and capricious magnitudes. The total amount of the 
Cuttack revenue termed Mogulbundee is 1,363,668 rupees. The estimated mea- 
surement of the assessed lands in cultivation and arable, is only 1 ,200,220 begahs ; 
the number of estates 2349; and of inhabitants 737,922, of which number only 
21,932 are Mahommedans. The tributary estates, their annual payments to the 
revenue, and extreme dimensions, are given below, and those not subject to the 
British laws and regulations are marked with an asterisk (*). 


List of the 29 Gkurjaut or Tributary Estates . 


Dimensions. Tribute. 

Mohurbunge . . . 150 miles by 100 .... 1,001 rupees per annum; 

Kunka 75 by 50 19,132 

♦Autghur .... 15 by 12 6,848 

Marickpoor .... 9 by 6 3,120 

Aul 20 by 10 26,680 

♦Deknal 112 by 87 4,780 

*&ankee 30 by 25 4,162 

•Khandeahpurah ... 25 by 12 3,948 

•Jenmoo . . * . 17 by 9 620 


VOt. it. 



42 THE PROVINCE [distmct ox 

♦Neyaghur . . . 75 miles by 2 5 5, 179 rupees perannum. 

♦Nursingpoor 

•Neelgur ....... 3,656 

♦Ongologur .... 125 by 10 1,550 

♦Hindole 17 by 12 516 

Koorjung 50 by 25 7,034 

Harrespoor .... 80 by 5 34,083 

Sookundah .... 8 by 5 1,272 

♦Koonjeur .... 182 by 125 2,790 

Muddoopoor ... 15 by 13 .... . 5,813 

Chedra . . . . 3 by 2} 2,134 

Demparah. ... 7 by 5 776 

Durpun 15 by 13 6,853 

Puttoo Dumparah 145 

♦Runpoor 15 by 10 1,313 

*Talchere 15 by 15 974 

♦Tegrah 13 by 12 826 

Burmba . . . . 12 by 8 1,310 

Bissenpoor .... 5 by 3 ..... . 1,740 

Kulkulla ... lj by 1 123 


The annual demand on the above 29 zemindaries is fixed at the above sums. 
The sum total annually accruing to the British government, from this source, 
amounts to 118,687 rupees; the supposed surplus of clear profit remaining to 
the landholders is estimated at 525,250 rupees, which is a mere trifle considering 
the immense tract of country from which it is derived. All these tributary 
zemindars assume the title of Raja in their respective territories, and admit each 
others claim to that dignity. They also exhibit the insignia, go abroad with 
the retinue, and observe the forms and state of independent princes, according 
as their income suffices for covering the consequent expenditure. 

Some of the principal zemindars, to the number of 16, are at present exempted 
from the operation of the British regulations ; the remaining 13 are within the 
jurisdiction of the laws. The exemption of the first 16, from the operation of 
the Bengal code, was not founded on any claim which the proprietors of these 
tributary estates had to the exercise of independent authority, on the contrary, 
it originated entirely from the opinion that was entertained of the barbarous 
and uncultivated manners of these zemindars and their subjects, combined with 
the impervious nature of the country, consisting mostly of hills and jungles, 
which local circumstances would have rendered it extremely difficult to execute 



OP ORISSA. 


CUTTACK.] 


43 


any process of the courts of judicature, or to enforce the orders of the public 
functionaries. The continuance, therefore, of these estates in their existing con- 
dition, became a mere question of expediency, there being nothing in the nature 
of the connection of the British government and the proprietors, which pre- 
eluded the former from placing the latter under the ordinary jurisdiction of the 
civil and criminal courts, leaving the land-tax which has been fixed in perpetuity, 
unaltered. Experience, however, has demonstrated, that the liberality of this 
arrangement has not exempted it from much inconvenience and embarrassment. 
On the contrary, the tribes thus left to their own guidance have habitually 
addicted themselves to the perpetration of crimes of the blackest dye, and the 
zemindars, who ought to have been the conservators of the public peace, and 
distributors of justice, have been the very persons most suspected of these atro- 
cities, more especially of assassinations committed for the purpose of usurping 
estates, and acts of extreme cruelty exercised on the persons of their tenants. 

The Bengal government, however, not being prepared to extend the regula- 
tion generally to those estates, which without an efficient police might tend 
rather to aggravate than alleviate the sufferings of the inhabitants, determined to 
appoint a special officer to controul the conduct of the Rajas; both to serve as a 
check on their proceedings, and with the view of obtaining an accurate know- 
ledge of the country, a necessary step towards the introduction of an improved 
system of administration. It was expected that the general prosperity of the 
distnet, which before this had been sacrificed to a too rigid system nf economy, 
would be promoted by the arrangement, and the advantages to arise would more 
than counterpoise the small additional expense with which it would be attended. 
A superintendant of the tributary estates was accordingly appointed, and in- 
vested with a general controul over the conduct of the proprietors ; but not- 
withstanding the importance attached by government to the tranquillity of this 
district and the selection of the ablest functionaries, its prosperity has not 
advanced so rapidly as might have been expected from the pure and liberal 
principles by which the arrangements were dictated. 

A great outlay is annually necessary in Cuttack, for the purpose of keeping 
the embankments in good order; the expense incurred by government on this 
account, in 1814, having amounted to 40,514 rupees. Some of the principal 
embankments, especially that at the town of Cuttack are indispensable; but the 
Utility of many of the inferior ones is by no means equivalent to the disburse- 
ments they involve. More than one fourth of the circulation of the district is 
eanied on by cowries; copper one tenth, gold one-fortieth and silver three-fifths* 
Formerly, the revenue was calculated in cowries, and annual importations of 
these shells are still made from the Maldives in return for grain exported* The 



44 


THE PROVINCE 


[cOTtACH:* 

pilgrims bring a great deal of bullion, but much is also sent to Calcutta In 1813, 
no instance of gang-robbery occurred in this district, and the number of affrays 
and murders ascertained to have bee*' ™ Tr ‘mi;tted was considerably Lass than that 
of the preceding year. In the year above mentioned, the gross tax on pilgrims 
produced 170,000 rupees, but this is not all clear gain, a^great proportion being 
expended in the current expenses of the temple and its establishment. The 
tract of country between the Byturnee nullah and the Ganjam river, extending 
about 10 miles on each side of the temple to the north and south, is the holy 
land of Juggemauth. The inhabitants of this portion of territory are exempted 
from the taxes which the Hindoos pay for access to the town and temple, fexcept 
during the Ruth and Dole Jattries, when they are liable to a small tax. \ They 
found their claim to exemption on some sacred texts and immemorial usage. In 
A. D. 1817, the tranquillity of Cuttack was greatly disturbed by an insurrection 
of the Pykes (the ancient militia of the country) instigated by the Khoordah 
Raja and his minister Jugoobundoo, who, although defeated in every rencounter, 
were enabled by the local difficulties of access to carry on a protracted warfare, 
which can scarcely yet be said to be thoroughly concluded. These commotions 
were also in part ascribable to the too hasty introduction of the British revenue 
and judicial system, among a people in no respect prepared for its reception, 
and notwithstanding the insignificance of the insurgents and their total want of 
military resources, the loss of valuable troops and officers has been enormous, 
the climate effecting what the natives were themselves unable to accomplish. — 
( Asiatic Journal , Richardson , Pablic MS. Documents , Die Marquis of Hastings , 
Parliamentary Reports, <§*c. fyc. 8$c.) 

Cuttack. — The capital of the preceding district, situated in lat. 20° 27' N. 
long. 86° 5' E. 251 miles travelling distance S. W. from Calcutta. This town 
is built on a neck of land washed by two branches of the Mahanuddy river, 
which diverge about three miles to the westward of the city, and in the rainy 
season insulate it. Near Cuttack the Mahanuddy during the rains is about two 
miles from bank to bank, but in the dry season it is fordable with less than three 
feet of water. At this station there are large and solid embankments, mostly 
faced with cut stone, having a descent of steps to the water, which are essential 
to the preservation of the town of Cuttack and the military cantonments, both 
of which would otherwise be annually inundated. It is said that ton Cutjoury, 
which passes the south side of the town, and Mahanuddy, which passes the 
north side, have been ascertained to rise during great floods eight fees above die 
level of the town. The town is tolerably neat and regular, and toe roads ad- 
jacent kept in good repair by the magistrates. An officer who was present at its 
capture from the Maharattas, in 1803, then estimated its inhabitants at 100,000 



JEGHEDERPOOR.] OF ORISSA. 45 

souls, but this number appears out of all proportion to the population of the 
district, and its existing condition while under the Maharatta government. The 
fort named Barrabuttee stands about a mile N. W. from Cuttack. Travelling dis- 
tance from Nagpoor 482 miles; from Hyderabad 651 ; from Madras 779 ; and 
from Delhi 902 miles. — ( Richardson , Rermell, Upton, tyc. fyc. ) 

Barrabuttee. — This fortress is of a rectangular form, containing an area of 
about 80 acres, surrounded by a ditch 130 feet wide, 20 deep, filled from the 
river Mahanuddy, and inhabited by a numerous and ancient stock of alligators. 
When captured in 1803, the area was enclosed by double stone walls of various 
dimensions, and a large square cavalier in the centre, considerably elevated, so 
as to command the adjoining country. The garrison was reportedl to consist 
of 2000 men, mostly Seiks and Arabs, with about 20 pieces of bad ordnance 
mounted on the walls. It was stormed by a British detachment from Bengal in 
the most gallant manner, and taken with little loss, but, as generally happens on 
similar occasions, the treasure escaped. — ( Asiatic Journal, Leckie , Upton, 8$c.) 

Mahanuddy (Maha Nadi , the great river).— This river has its source in the 
province of Gundwana, but the exact spot has not been ascertained, that por- 
tion of Hindostan being as yet but very imperfectly explored. It is first disco- 
vered in the neighbourhood of Kyraghur, from whence it flows east towards the 
bay of Bengal, with an uncommonly winding course, watering many wild Gond 
jungles, Sumbhulpoor, and part of Orissa, until it arrives in the district of Cut- 
tack, where it is augmented by various streams, and at last reaches the sea, after 
having performed a course of about 550 miles, including the windings. 

About three miles to the westward of Cuttack town, the Cutjoura branch, 
separating from the Mahanuddy, flows to the southward of the town, while the 
Mahanuddy passing under the fort of Barrabuttee to the north, bends its course 
to the bay of Bengal, which it joins at False Point, having insulated a consider** 
able tract of country in the shape of a Delta. — ( Leckie, Blunt, tyc. $c.) 

Burruah ( Bharwa ). — A town in Orissa, 27 miles N. N. E. from Cuttack. Lat. 
20° 45' N. long. 86° 21' E. 

Caueahandy. — A town in Orissa, 95 miles S. by W. from Sumbhulpoor. 
Lat, 19° 49' N. long. 83° 12' E. 

Jeghederpoor (Jaghirdarpur). — A town in the Orissa, 20 miles south from 
Bustar. Lat. 19° 14' N. long. 82° 28' E. Under this town a considerable river 
runs named the Inderowty (Indravaty), the bed of which at this place is very 
rocky, and not fordable at any time of the year. There is a small fort on a 
peninsula formed by the winding of the river, which in the rainy season over- 
flows itrbanks, and forms a lake of considerable dimensions.— (J. B. Blunt, S^c.) 



46 THE PROVINCE [cere*. 

Narlah ( Naralaya ), — A town in Orissa, 37 miles EL from Bustar. Lat. 19* 
37 N. long. 83* 2' E. 

Jyapoor. — A town in Orissa, 70 miles N. W. from Vizagapatam. Lat. 18° 25 
N. long. 82° 43' E. 

Aul.— A town in the province of Orissa, district of Cuttack, 50 miles ffom 
the town* of Cuttack in a north-east direction. The tribute paid by the pro- 
prietor is 26,680 rupees ; his remaining profit estimated at 15,000. This is a 
Valuable property, and, although only tributary, is situated within the Mogul- 
bundee, or that part of the district subject to the British regulations. In ex- 
treme dimensions it is reckoned 20 miles from north to south, and 10‘ from ^ast 
to west . — ( Richardson , §c.) 

Jagepoor (Jehajpoor ). — A town in the Cuttack district, 35 miles N. N.E. 
from the town of that name. Lat. 20° 52' N. long. 86° 24' E. It stands on the 
south side of the Byturnee river, which is here in the rains nearly half a mile 
broad. This is a large straggling town, in which a good deal of cloth is made. 
During the Mogul government, it was a place of importance, and the remains of 
several Mahommedan edifices are still visible. The mosque was built by Abou 
Hassir Khan, who, in an inscription, is very extravagant in the praises of his own 
mosque, although it is remarkably ill proportioned, having a large dome and 
small pillars. The country around is much intersected with small rivers and 
water courses. 

The principality of Jagepoor in Orissa was invaded by Toghan Khan, the 
Mahommedan governor of Bengal, in A. D. 1243, at which period it appears to 
have been a state of some strength, as the Raja not only defeated Toghan Khan, 
but pursued him into Bengal, where he besieged Gour, the metropolis. The 
approach of reinforcements from Oude compelled him subsequently to retreat. 
The Mahommedans were again totally defeated by the Raja of Jagepoor in 1253. 
There is no record at what time this place fell finally under the domination of the 
Mahommedans, who possessed it until expelled by the Maharattas. — ( Leckie , 
Steicart , Upton, 8§c.) 

Kunka. — A town in the province of Orissa, district of Cuttack, 80 miles 
N. E. from the town of Cuttack. This is the capital of one of the tributary 
estates in Cuttack subject to the British regulations, the exact limits of which 
have never been ascertained, but which have been roughly estimated at 75 miles 
from north to south, by 50 from east to west. Prior to the acquisition of Cut- 
tack by the British, the Raja of Kunka, who possessed this inundated and un- 
healthy tract of country, had long baffled the Maharatta generals in, all their 
attempts to subdue to him. The Maharattas had been .accustomed to embark 



OF ORISSA. 


D1KKALL.] 


47 


troops and artillery on large unwieldy flat bottomed boats, unmanageable in 
large streams or near the sea, in consequence of which, their ill-constructed 
fleets always fell a prey to the Raja’s light armed vessels, which were long, nar- 
row, with barricadoes to cover the men, and some of them having 100 paddles 
or oars* When these squadrons met, the Ooria boats moved quickly round the 
heavy Maharatta armada, and picked off the men with their matchlocks, until 
the remainder were compelled to surrender, when they were carried into a cap- 
tivity from whence they seldom returned, the pernicious atmosphere of these 
morasses permitting none to live but the aborigines. 

On this account the Kunka chief and his country were viewed with vast horror 
by the Maharattas, and when Cuttack devolved to the British government, its 
subjugation presented a task of real difficulty, as square rigged vessels could 
navigate but few of the shallow rivers at ebb tide, aud the Ooreas were very 
expert at stockading both their country and streams. The perseverance and 
determination, however, of the British commander overcame every obstacle, and 
having, by a well concerted enterprise, in March 1$05, captured some of the 
Kunka Raja’s boats, a detachment made their way in them to Kunkagur, which 
so staggered the chieftain’s fortitude, that he came out and surrendered, and 
with this operation, and not before, the conquest of Cuttack may be said to have 
terminated. At present the annual tribute paid to the British government is 
19,132 rupees, and the estimated revenue enjoyed by the proprietor, one lack. 
This territory produces rice, and salt in large quantities ; also some sugar cane, 
cotton, honey, and wax . — ( Asiatic Journal , Richardson , 8$c. fyc.) 

Point Palmiras. — A small town and promontory in the province of Orissa, 
district of Cuttack. Lat. 20* 43' N. long. 87° 5' E. In favourable weather, 
Bengal pilot schooners for the river Hooghlv are frequently met with as soon as 
this cape is passed. 

Deknall (Dakshin Alay , the southern residence ). — The capital of a tributary 
zemindary in the province of Cuttack, 40 miles N. N. W. from the town of 
Cuttack. Lat. 20°58'N. long. 85° 48 E. The extreme dimensions of this 
zemindary are 112 miles from east to west, and 87 from north to south ; the 
produce consists of rice, cotton, sugar cane, timber, dammer, iron, honey, and 
wax. The annual tribute paid into the Cuttack treasury is 4780 rupees; the 
estimated profit remaining to the zemindar 50,000 rupees. 

In 1814, charges were preferred by several persons against Krishna Singh, the 
Raja of Deknall for excesses and injustice committed on their persons and pro- 
perty. The situation of the parties and their exemption from the operation of 
the British laws and regulations, although the outrages alleged were fully sub- 
stantiated, prevented the interference of the magistrate further than to levy a 



48 THE PROVINCE [ongologur. 

fine on the Raja, to make adequate compensation for the amount of the property 
plundered, in hopes that the example would have a salutary effect, until a bet- 
ter police Could be established. No regular system of judicature, however, has 
yet been established in the tributary estates, defining the nature or degree pf 
punishment for public misdemeanors. The prior Raja of Oeknall was Ramchunder 
Singh, the father of Krishna Singh. — ( Richardson , fyc. fyc.j 

Bamhaghur. — A town in the Orissa province, 80 miles N. W. from Cuttack. 
Lat. 21° 3' N. long. 85° 2' E. To the south of this place are some iron mines 
and forges. 

Autghur. — T his place stands in the midst of a wild and woody country* 
about 14 miles N. W. from the town of Cuttack. On the north it is bounded by 
the tributary state of Durpun, and on the west by the fortress of Tigria. Owing 
to the quantity and density of the jungle, the country is reckoned very un- 
healthy, and its extreme dimensions are 15 miles east to west, by 12 from north 
to south. The annual tribute paid by the zemindar is 6868 ; the total produce 
in its present state is only estimated at 19,000 rupees per annum. The articles 
produced are rice and various sorts of grain, tobacco, cotton, sugar cane and oil. 
( Richardson , '8$c.) 

Narsingah. — A town in Orissa, 60 miles W. by N. from Cuttack. Lat. 20* 
37' N. 85° 11' E. 

Ox gologur (Angula-ghar ). — The capital of a large zemindary in the Cut- 
tack district, situated 59 miles W. from the town of Cuttack. Lat. 20° 32' N. 
long. 85° IT E. This territory is bounded on the north by the Brahminy river ; 
on the east by the hereditary state of Talchere, and in extreme dimensions is 
125 miles from north to south by 10 from east to west. This tract produces rice 
and most of the common Indian grains, also cotton, oil, wax, honey, iron, and 
timber. The proprietor collects annually about IX), 000 rupees, from a tax levied 
at Pergurparah Ghaut, on all merchandize passing that road. The annual tri- 
bute of the zemindary attached to this place is 1550 rupees ; the estimated profit 
of the zemindar 25,000. Much of the country is still in a state of nature, and 
covered with jungle. 

In 1814, the succession to this tributary zemindary was disputed by two 
claimants, Loknauth Singh and Prithee Singh, as heirs 1 to Zorawar Singh. Both 
were strongly suspected of illegitimacy, which was established against the first ; 
although his mother had burned herself with Zorawar Singh's corpse, an honour 
which would not have been allowed if she had been a slave ; this painful dis- 
tinction being reserved exclusively for persons of free birth. On the death of 
Zorawar Singh, he was succeeded by his younger brother Jeysingh, who held 
the estate about three months, when Prithee. Singh, his half-brother, m u rdered 



OF ORISSA* 


KHOORDAH.] 


49 


him and his three children, and took possession of the property. After a very 
tedious investigation, it was established, that Prithee Singh had no legal title to 
the estate, and that the rightful owner was Somnauth Singh (whose father Gopi- 
nauth had been the elder brother of Prithee Singh), who was accordingly put 
in possession, and recognized by the British functionaries as the legitimate heir. 
(Richardson, Public MS. Documents , 8$c. <$c.) 

Bankee. — A town in the province of Cuttack, the capital of a tributary 
zetnindary, 30 miles west from the town of Cuttack. The extreme dimensions 
of this estate from north to south are 30 miles, and 25 from east to west. The 
produce consists of coarse rice, sugar cane, cotton, oil, tobacco, and different 
sorts of grain. The annual tribute paid to government is 4162; the supposed 
profit of the zemindar 20,000rupees. 

Khoordah. — The Khoordah Raja is hereditary high priest of Juggeraauth, 
and keeper of the idol’s wardrobe. Khoordahghur his residence, is situated about 
20 miles S.W.of Cuttack, and 15 west of Piply. It is enclosed by a depth of 
impervious forest to the extent of many miles, carefully tn ined to grow in a 
close matting of the most thorny thickets, the only avenues to the interior being 
through defiles strongly fortified. The principal entrance in 1804 was from the 
eastward, communicating with the road leading to Piply, which was also 
strengthened in the native manner, and there were two other accessible en- 
trances, one from the north-west, and the other from the west. 

Soon after the conquest of Cuttack, this pergunnah became remarkable for its 
hostility to the British government, and at length became so turbulent, that to 
preserve the tranquillity of the district, it became necessary to secure the person 
of the Raja, Muckund Deo, then 18 years of age, and retain him in custody at 
Midnapoor. For the accomplishment of this object, in 1804, three separate at- 
tacks were made on Khoordahghur ; on which occasion, the route pursued by the 
troops was along the banks of the Mahanuddy, through a picturesque country, 
diversified by hill, dale, and water scenery. After penetrating, with much phy- 
sical difficulty but little loss, through a great depth of forest, the detachment 
reached a vale of an oval form, about three miles long by two in width, the 
whole under rice cultivation, and ready for reaping. This vale contained also 
a mangoe grove and neat village ; but the Raja resided on a hill at the south end 
the approach to which was strongly stockaded and fortified with several barriers, 
and a well constructed stone wall surrounding a portion of the summit, within 
which dwelt the Raja and his family, with their principal officers and domestics. 
By a series of well concerted operations, the whole multitude were here pent 
up, and a scarcity of provisions ensuing, a great proportion of them dispersed 
by night, leaving only a garrison of 1000 men. After three weeks endeavours, 

vot. it. n 



50 THE PROVINCE [juggernauth. 

rendered difficult by the complicated and unintelligible form of the enemy's 
works, the external defences were stormed under a heavy but ill-directed fire, 
until at length the base of the stone wall and gateway were attained, leading 
into the body of the place, on the summit of the hill. Another party which 
had gone by a more circuitous route, having got over the wall, proceeded to the 
gateway, and let in the rest, when they all proceeded against the Raja's dwel- 
ling, he having recently fled through another gateway at the foot of the hill. 
With this terminated the siege of Khoordahghur, but the troops being much ex- 
hausted were unable to pursue, the Raja, however, a short time subsequent, 
voluntarily came in and surrendered himself. 

After all opposition had been in this manner subdued, the British government 
with great liberality restored him to his functions in the temple, but to prevent 
the recurrence of tumult and commotion, retained the management of the zemin- 
dary of Khoordah, allowing, him a commission on the revenues of 24 per cent 
In this state matters continued until IB 17, in which year the lower classes and 
pykes, or local militia of the pergunnah, stimulated, as was supposed, by Jug- 
goo Bundoo, the Raja’s dewan, rose unexpectedly in rebellion ; and being pro- 
tected by the jungles, notwithstanding numberless checks wherever tfyey could 
be got at, continued for several months to keep the province in such a state of 
ferment, that it became necessary to send for reinforcements from Bengal, and 
also to secure the persons of the Raja and his son, which was accordingly done, 
and they arrived at Cuttack, on the 11th June, 1817, from whence it was in- 
tended to forward them to Calcutta. — ( Asiatic Journal , Public MS. Documents , 

Marickpook. — A town in the province of Orissa, district of Cuttack, 40 
miles S. E. from the town of Cuttack. The extreme dimensions of the zemin- 
dary attached to this town, is reckoned nine miles from north to south, and six 
from east to west. The produce consists of rice, salt, cotton, and sugar cane. 
The tribute paid to government is 3120 rupees, the estimated profit 29,000, of 
which 4000 rupees are from salt. — ( Richardson , 8$c.) 

Ahmedpoor. — A town in Orissa, 11 miles N. from Juggemauth. Lat. 19° 
58' N, long. 85° 54' E. 

Piply (Pippali). — A town in Orissa, 27 miles south from Cuttack. Lat* 20° 
5'N. long. 85° 58' E. 

Juggernauth (Jagatnatha). — A celebrated place of Hindoo worship on the 
sea-coast of Orissa, district of Cuttack, esteemed the most sacred of all their 
religious establishments. Lat. 19° 49' N. long. 86° 64' E. 47 miles S. by E. from 
the town of Cuoack in a southerly direction, on the high road from thence to 
Ganjam. The temple containing the idol is an ill-formed shapeless mess of de- 



OF ORISSA. 


JUGGSKKAUTH*] 


51 


cayed granite, no way remarkable but as an object of Hindoo veneration, situ- 
ated about one mile and a half from the shore. The country around is extremely 
sterile, the town and temple being encompassed by low sand hills. From the 
sea the temple or pagoda forms an excellent land mark on a coast without any 
discriminating object for navigators. It is surrounded by a large, populous, 
filthy, ill built town, called Pooree, inhabited by a bad looking, sickly Hindoo 
population, composed mostly of the officiating priests, and officers attached to 
the various departments dependant on the idol. For ten miles in circumference 
round the temple on the land side, taking the temple for the central point, and 
the sea shore for the chord, the space enclosed thereby is called the holy land of 
Juggernauth, its sanctity being esteemed such, as to ensure future beatitude to 
the Hindoo who dies within its bounds. By Abul Fazel in 1582, this place is 
described as follows : “In the town of Poorsottem, on the banks of the sea, 
stands the temple of Jagnauth, near to which are the images of Kishen, his bro- 
ther, and their sister, made of sandal wood, which are said to be 4000 years old.” 
With respect to the origin of this image we have the following legend narrated in 
various mythological histories. 

Angada, a hunter, while engaged in the chace, discharged an arrow, but 
instead of hitting the prey for which it was intended, it pierced Krishna, who 
happened to be sitting under a tree, so that he died, and some unknown person 
having collected the bones of that incarnation, put them into a box. About this 
time a king named Indradhumna was performing austere worship to Vishnu, 
who directed him to form the image of Juggernauth, and to put the bones into 
its belly, by the doing of which action he would obtain the fruit of his devotion. 
The king asked who would make the image, and was told, Viswacarma, the 
architect of the gods. To this deified mechanic he in consequence began to per- 
form austere worship, which had such efficacy, that Viswacarma undertook to 
finish the job in one month, provided he was not disturbed. He accordingly 
commenced by building a temple upon an elevation called the blue mountain, in 
Orissa, in the course of one night, and then began to form the image in the 
temple; but the king was impatient, and after 15 days went and looked at the 
image, in consequence of which Viswacarma refused to go on, and left it unfi- 
nished. The king was much disconcerted, and in his distress offered up prayers 
to Brahma, who told him, not to grieve too much, for he would make the image 
famous even in its present imperfect shape. Being thus encouraged, King Indrad- 
humna invited all the demi-gods to attend the setting of it up, on which occa- 
sion Brahma gave it eyes* and by performing worship to it, established its fame. 

According to report the original image now lies in a pool at Juggernauth 
Kshetra, aud it is also said that every third year the Brahmins construct a new 

H 2 



52 THE PROVINCE [juggebn auth. 

one* into which the bones of Krishna are removed, and that while performing 
this exchange, the officiating Brahmin acts with his eyes bandaged, lest the efful- 
gence of the sacred relicts should strike him dead. The image exhibited at pre- 
sent is a carved block of wood, having a frightful visage painted black, with a 
distended mouth of a bloody colour, the eyes and head very large, without legs 
or hands, and only fractions of arms ; but at grand ceremonies he is supplied 
with gold or silver arms. In the interior the attending Brahmins, bathe, wipe 
him, and carry him about like the stump of a tree. The other two idols of his 
brother and sister are of a white and yellow colour, and each have distinct places 
allotted them within the temple. 

The ruth, or car on which these divinities are elevated, 60 feet high, resembles 
the general form of Hindoo pagodas, supported by very strong frames placed 
on four or five rows of wheels, which deeply indent the ground as they turn 
under their ponderous load. He is accompanied by two other idols, his brother 
Bulram and his sister Shubudra, who sit on thrones, nearly of equal height. The 
upper part of the cars are covered with English broad cloth, supplied by the 
British government, and are striped red and white, blue and yellow, and deco- 
rated with streamers and other ornaments. Both the walls of the temple and 
sides of the machine are covered with indecent sculptures. During the Ruth 
Jattra, the celebration of which varies from the middle of June to the middle of 
July, according to the lunar year, the three images are brought forth with much 
ceremony and uproar, and having mounted their carriage, the immense machine is 
pushed and dragged along,. amidst the shouts and clamours of a prodigious mul- 
titude, to what is called the idol’s garden-house, or country residence, distant 
from the temple only one mile ana a half, but the motion is so slow, that 
the getting over this space usually occupies three or four days. On these occa- 
sions scenes of great horror frequently occur, both from accident, and self-devo- 
tion, under the wheels of the tower, which passing over the body of the victim 
inflict instant death by crushing the body to pieces ; and their bruised and 
lacerated carcasses are frequently left exposed on the spot for many days after 
their destruction. Superstition is here seen in its least disguised and most dis- 
gusting form ; the songs and gestures of the car drivers are indecent, and the 
external paintings to the last degree obscene. Some of the latter may be attri- 
buted to the mystical allusions of Hindoo mythology, others to the inherent 
beastliness of the people; some to the incubation of a lazy and pampered 
priesthood. 

While the festival lasts, devotees and religious mendicants of all descriptions, 
are seen in crowds endeavouring to stimulate the charity of the multitude, by a 
great variety of ingenious, whimsical, and preposterous devices. Some remain 



JUGGERNAUTH.] OP ORISSA. 53 

ill day with their head on the ground, and their feet in the air ; others with 
their bodies entirely covered with earth. Some cram their eyes with mud, and 
their mouth with straw ; while others lie extended in a puddle of water. One 
man is seen with his foot tied to his neck, another with a pot of fire on his belly; 
a third enveloped with a net work of ropes. Nor are the officiating Brahmins 
idle on these emergencies, on the contrary, all the resources of superstition and 
priestcraft are brought into active operation, and every offering, from a sweet- 
meat to a lack of rupees, grasped at with the most importunate rapacity. 

At Juggernauth there are 13 annual festivals ; viz. 


1. Chandana .... A sweet-scented powder. 

2. Snana The bathing festival. 

3. Ruth The car festival. 

4. Bahura Ditto returning. 

5 . Shayana The lying down festival. 

6. Janma ...... The birth festival. 

7. Kojugara The waking festival. 

8. Rasa The Rasa festival. ^ 

9. Urana The warm clothing festival. 

10. Abhishaca .... The anointing festival. 

11. Macura A sign of the zodiac festival. 

12. Dola The swinging festival. 


13. Rama Narami . . . Rama's birth-day festival. 

Such Hindoos as perform this pilgrimage contrive to arrive at four parti- 
cular times, when the swinging, the sweet scented, the bathing, and the car 
festivals take place ; but much the greater number at the swinging and car fes- 
tivals ; some go and return immediately, while others sojourn for two or three 
months. After the preliminary ceremonies are gone through and -the fees paid, 
the pilgrim goes and looks at the image, he next bathes in the sea, and then re- 
turning to the temple, purchases some rice which has been recently offered to 
Juggernauth, and with it performs the obsequies of his deceased ancestors. 
During his stay he attends the daily solemnities, and makes offerings through 
the Brahmins of rice and other articles to Juggernauth. For payment, the offi- 
ciating priests supply him with food ready dressed, which is particularly nutri- 
tious, as having been first presented to Juggernauth, who eats (by proxy) 52 
times each day. The penitent also feasts the Brahmins, and eats with all de- 
scriptions of pilgrims, of whatever caste. Various reasons are assigned, and 
stories told, all equally irrational, to account for the singular exception of per- 
mitting an act to be done here, which performed anywhere else would render 
the individual a miserable outcast. All Hindoos eagerly accept whatever has 



54 THE PROVINCE Ijcoomnaot*. 

been offered to an idol, hence it is common to observe flowers which have been 
so offered stuck in their hair, and the water which has been offered to Jugper- 
nauth is preserved and sipped occasionally as a cordial. The appellation of 
Juggemauth (Jagat Natha, lord of the world) is merely one of the 1000 names 
of Vishnu, the presevering power, according to the Brahminical theology. 

The concourse of pilgrims to this temple is so immense, that at 50 miles dis- 
tance its approach may be known by the quantity of human bones which are 
strewed by the way. Some old persons come to die at Juggemauth, and many 
measure the distance by their length on the ground ; but besides these voluntary 
sufferings, many endure great hardships both when travelling, and while they 
reside here, from exposure to the weather, bad food and water, and other evils. 
Many perish by dysentry, and the surrounding country abounds with sculls 
and human bones ; but the vicinity of Juggemauth to the sea, and the arid 
nature of the soil, assist to prevent the contagion which would otherwise be 
generated. When this object of their misplaced veneration is first perceived, 
the multitude of pilgrims shout aloud, and fall to the ground to worship it. 

A road from Calcutta, in the direction of Juggemauth, had long been an object 
highly desirable, considered merely in respect to the reputed sanctity of the 
temple ; it was, however, more essential in a military point of view, for the 
purpose of affording a communication between the provinces immediately de- 
pendant on Bengal, and the territories subject to the presidency of Madras. It 
happened fortunately, that in 1810, Raja Sookmoy Roy, an opulent Hindoo 
inhabitant of Calcutta, offered to contribute one lack and a half of rupees 
(£16,000) towards the accomplishment of this object ; the road when completed 
to be designated by his name. He died soon after the payment of the money 
into the treasury ; but the undertaking has been prosecuted in conjunction with 
his heirs. The line of this road runs from Juggemauth through the towns of 
Cuttack, Balasore, Midnapoor, and Keerpoy, until it meets with the great 
western military road, about 20 miles north from the place last mentioned, 
comprehending a total distance of 290 miles. According to the original plan, 
the average height of the road was intended to be six feet, by 42 broad at the 
base, and 30 at the surface, but these, measurements must vary according to the 
localities ; in some places reaching to 30 feet high, and 80 broad. Between 
Cuttack and Juggemauth a direct distance of 47 miles, no less than 27 stone 
bridges are required. This road was began in 1813, and is still going on; but 
with respect to the pilgrims, the merit of their peregrination being in proportion 
to the hardships they sustain, every arrangement tending to render the holy 
p lace more accessible, and their immediate sufferings less, in the same propor- 
tion diminishes the merit of the pilgrimage, and nullifies the contemplated ex- 



OF ORISSA. 


55 


JfJGGEENAUTB.] 

piation. Raja Sookmoy Roy, in contributing so largely to the construction of 
this road, was, of course, anxious to do a praise-worthy action, according to his 
own opinions, without scrutinizing too closely what might eventually be its 
result. But he was also perfectly sensible of the advantage that would be de- 
rived from it by the British government, and so far his contribution may be 
considered as a mark of respect and gratitude to that government, for the protec- 
tion afforded to him and his countrymen generally ; more especially in matters 
relating to their religious manners, customs, and sentiments. 

In 1814* the Bengal government authorized the expenditure of a sum of 
money, for the purpose of making certain alterations in the barrier to the bridge 
over the Athara stream, the principal passage by which the pilgrims enter the 
town of Juggemauth ; which improvements were essentially necessary to pre- 
vent the recurrence of serious casualties among the multitude. The old > area 
was too confined, and a great part of the space enclosed was occupied by a tank 
full of putrid stagnant water. When a great concourse of pilgrims were col- 
lected, this enclosure was entirely filled ; but the great damage occurred when 
the two gates, both of moderate size, were thrown open. On this being done, 
the enthusiastic crowd rushed with frantic haste to gain admission, regardless 
of consequences ; and in the fray, weaker persons, females, aged men, and chil- 
dren, perished in considerable numbers. The improvements suggested for 
enlarging the area, and augmenting the size and number of gates were calculated 
to preclude the recurrence of similar calamities, and also to enable the revenue 
officers to collect the tax to the latest period, and with increased regularity. A 
medical establishment of native doctors was also fixed at Juggemauth, to afford 
assistance to sick and infirm pilgrims ; it being discovered that an institution of 
that description had subsisted during the domination of the Maharattas. 

When the province of Cuttack was conquered from the Maharattas, the 
British government succeeded to all their rights as sovereigns, and consequently 
to the revenue derived from the resort of Hindoo pilgrims to the temple of Jug- 
gemauth : possession was accordingly taken of the town and temple on the 
18th of September, 1803 ; the sacred will of the idol having been first ascer- 
tained through the medium of the officiating priest. From the 1st of May, 
1806, to the 30th of April, 1807, the sum realized here amounted to 117,490 
rupees j the expenditure was about 56,000 rupees. To provide for this 

in addition to the established endowments, consisting of land § 
said vi l l a ges, an allow an ce of 20, per cent, on the net receipts arising from the 
tax on pilg r im s was granted by the British government. In 1810, the re- 
ceipts exceeded the disbursements on account of the temple, in the sum of 
^ The Court of Directors in their remarks on this fact, dated the 



56 THE PROVINCE [juggernauts!. 

28th of October, 1814, declare that they do not consider the tax on pilgrims as 
a source of revenue, but merely as a fund for keeping the temple in repair. In 
1813, the net receipts exceeded those of the preceding year in the sum of 
30,876, arising from the greater number of pilgrims resorting to the temple 
during that year ; this surplus was devoted to the improvement of the road to 
Juggemauth, and to other circumstances connected with the temple. The fol- 
lowing is an abstract of the receipts and expenditure for 1813 : 


Amount of collections from the pilgrims at the tolls . . 87,084 rupees. 

Miscellaneous receipts 75 


Total receipts . . 87,159 
Deduct collector’s establishment and contingencies . 17,257 


Net receipts . . 69,902 


Amount issued from the public treasury to make up the 

deficiency of the receipts at the temple 29,882 

Value of broad cloth issued from the Company’s import 

warehouse 1505 

Sundries 90 

31,417 

Collections from land assigned as an endowment to the 

temple 20,643 

Amount of authorized collections at the temple on ac- 
count of the sale of holy food, &c. &c 5,997 

Total expense of the temple . . . 57,877 


Amount of Net Receipts as above 69,902 rupees 

Ditto Public Expenditure ditto .... 31,417 


Balance jremainigg to Government .... 38,486 

In 1814-15, the net collections amounted to 135,667 rupees, and the number 
of taxed pilgrims, assembled in May and June, was stated to be 77,323, exclu- 
sive of those (always much the greater number) exempted from taxation. In 
1815-16, the gross receipts amounted to 86,027 rupees, and the total charges to 
74,880 rupees, leaving a net balance of only 11,147 rupees. In June and July 
of the year last mentioned, the taxable pilgrims only amounted to 5444 persons. 

Besides the fees received at the temple, votive offerings and deeds of gift ale 
made to Juggemauth, all over Hindostan ; his priests having stationary agents 



juggernauts] GF ORISSA. 57 

in all the great towns, who collect and transmit the sums received either by a 
bill of exchange, or more frequently by merchandize. By a regulation of the 
Bengal government in 1809, the superintendance of the temple, its interior eco- 
nomy, and the controul of the priests, officers, and servants attached to the 
service of the idol, were vested in the Raja of Khoordah, who was directed on 
all occasions to be guided by the recorded rules and institutions of the temple, or 
by ancient and established usage. In this charge the Rajas of Khoordah were 
to be continued, so long as the propriety of their conduct justified the ap- 
pointment. 

For the purpose of preventing persons, either clandestinely or forcibly, entering 
anywhere but at the places established for admission, there is a strong barrier 
made by a hedge of prickly bamboos, where access is not prevented by small 
branches of rivers, and there is a guard of soldiers placed to prevent their enter- 
ing the town or temple until they have paid the pilgrim tax, for which purpose 
persons liable to the pilgrim tax are divided into the following classes. 

1st. Laul Jattries. Of this class those coming from the north pay 10 rupees, 
and those from the south six rupees, with free access to the temple for 30 days. 

2d. The Neem Lauls. From the north, five ; from the south, three rupees; 
access 10 days. 

3d. The Bhurrungs, either from the north or south, pay two rupees ; access 
four days. 

4th. The Punj Tirthees. This class comprehends persons of low caate, who 
pay two rupees, whether from the north, or south. They are not allowed to enter 
the temple, but are permitted to perform the customary ceremonies on the out- 
side of it for 16 days. It is optional with all persons who visit the interior of 
the temple, to enrol themselves under whatever class they may prefer, on pay- 
ment of the prescribed rate of tax. 

In conformity with long-established usage, the following classes of persons 
are exempted from payment of the tax on pilgrims at Juggemauth: viz. Byra- 
ghies, Sunyasies, Bundles, Brihmacharies, Mohunts, Gossains, Khomarties, and 
Nagas, who are all devotees, mendicants, and religious persons. The inhabit- 
ants born within the Bytumee north and Rossicoolla rivers south (the holy 
land of Juggemauth) are also exempted, as are all persons who have resided 
with their families for a period of ten years within the said limits. Individuals 
who carry Ganges water to Juggemauth, and actually pour it over the idol, and 
persons resorting to the town of J uggernauthpoor, for trade, or for any other 
purpose than pilgrimage, also escape the tax at the barrier, but these last am 
prohibited during the 12 days, while the great festival of the Ruth Jattra con- 
tbtiK*. Pilgrims in a state of actual poverty, on declaring their condition to be 

vot. si. i 



THE PROVINCE 


58 


[bhavpoob. 


such, under prescribed ceremonies, are allowed access for three days, and the 
British Sepoys of the Hindoo persuasion are exempted from all taxes on admis* 
sion to the temple, but access to the interior is denied to the British magis- 
trate. Pilgrims from the north, as they approach jthe river Bytumee (Vaitu- 
rani) perform certain funeral solemnities, while others make offerings of cows 
to the Brahmins, and cross the river by laying hold of the cow’s tail. The firinx- 
lous river of the infernal regions, which the souls of the dead have to cross, is 
also named the Vaiturani, and according to the Brahminical doctrines the gift 
of a cow to a priest at the dying hour, enables the deceased* to cross without 
damage, although its waters be at the boiling temperature. 

Among the voluminous documents published by order of parliament, in 18l3, 
there is no official estimate ot the number of pilgrims resorting annually to this 
temple, and the revenue produced furnishes no data, so many classes being 
exempted. Dr. Carey is of opinion that, on the lowest calculation, 1,200,000 
persons attend annually, of whom a very great number never return. The town 
adjacent to the temple is named Pooree, and also Pursottom, and to it mer- 
chants, traders, and others going to the markets have access ; but not to the 
temple without express permission. One of the most important periods of pil- 
grimage is in March, when the Dole J&ttrah takes place ; the other in July, 
when the Ruth Jattra is celebrated. Besides this one, Juggemauth has many 
other temples throughout Hindostan, and more especially in Bengal ; but this is 
by far the most renowned for sanctity and antiquity. Orissa, where this temple 
is situated, was one of the last conquests of the Mahommedans, at a period when 
the fervour of their bigotry had much abated, which partly accounts for the 
duration and still flourishing existence of the edifice. Travelling distance from 
Calcutta 311 miles; from Nagpoor 500 miles; from Benares 512; from Madras 
719; from Delhi 910; and from Bombay 1052 miles. — ( Parliamentary Reports, 
and MS . Documents, Ward , C. Buchanan , Richardson, Rennell , Buller, <SfC. 6$c.) 

Manickpatam. — A town in Orissa, situated on the narrow bank which 
separates the Chilka lake from the bay of Bengal. Lat. 19 0 41 / N. long* 85° 20' E. 
60 miles S, by W. from Cuttack. 

Bii anpoor. — A town in the province of Orissa, 65 miles S. W. from Cuttack. 
Lat. 19° 48' N. long. 85° 28' E. During the insurrection of the Pykes this was 
for some time the head-quarters of the 2d battalion, 18th Regiment of Bengal 
Native Infantry, commanded by Major William Hamilton, who, along with nearly 
all his detachment, fell a victim to the unhealthiness of the post. This officer 
joined the Bengal army when only 15 years of age, and on the 4th of May, 1799, 
when little mete than 17 entered the breach at the storming of Seringapalam, 
with the grenadiers of his battalion* He subsequently served as a subaltern m 
many other quarters, during t be intervals of leisure devoting Wt atten ti on 



OF ORISSA. 


JVBIMA800.] 


59 


the study of the Asiatic languages, in some of which (the Arabic, Persian, and 
Maharatta) he attained so remarkable a proficiency, that he was appointed 
under Mr. Efphinstone to the escorts at Nagpoor and Poona, with a view to his 
assistance in the diplomatic department. After taking the usual furlough to 
Europe, he rejoined the Bengal army, and served through the Nepaulese cam- 
paign, but as happened to many other officers, without any opportunity of dis- 
tinguishing himself. From the Himalaya mountains he was marched south to 
the salt swamps of Cuttack, where he met his fate on the 19th April, 1818, at 
the premature age of 37, and now lies buried at Juggernauth. Like almost all 
really brave men, his manners were so singularly gentle and inoffensive, and his 
disposition so kind and charitable, that he probably never had an enemy. By 
his personal friends he was sincerely loved, and among these may be mentioned, * 
as best known to fame. Sir John Malcolm, and Sir James Mackintosh. 

Bo ad (Bodkm). — A large fenced village in the province of Orissa, situated on 
the south-side of the Mahanuddy river, which at this place in the month of 
October is one mile and a half broad. Lat. 20° 32' N. long. 84° 10' E. 124 miles 
west from Cuttack. The face of the whole country, in this neighbourhood is 
mountainous, interspersed with vallies, from four to 16 miles in circumference- 
The villages are fenced with bamboos to protect the inhabitants and their cattle 
from wild beasts; and in the fields the women are seen holding the plough, 
while the female children drive the oxen. The Boad territory commands some 
of the principal passes into the Cuttack division. By the engagements concluded 
with the Boad chiefs, in 1803, they were liberated from the payment of any 
tribute to the Mahnrtfttas, and guaranteed in the possession of their estates, on 
condition that they faithfully discharged their duties as tributaries to the British 
government. — (1st Register, Treaties , §c*) 

R amour. — ( Ramagkara \)< — A town fortified in the native manner in the pro- 
vince of Orissa, situated on the south-side of the Mahanuddy river, 106 miles 
west from Cuttack. Lat. 20° 26' N . long, 84* 2ff E. By the arrangement made 
during the Marquis Wellesley’s administration, in 1803, the chief of this place was 
exempted from the payment of tribute to the- Maharattas,*and had his territories 
guaranteed to him. on condition of faithfully fulfilling his duty as a tributary to 
Che British government . — ( Treaties , %c.) 

Coo loo. — A town in Orissa, 80 miles S. E. from Sumbhulpoor. Lat. 20°31'N. 
long. 94° 39' E. This is a considerable mart for the inland trade, the Berar 
merchants bringing their cotton to Cooloo, from whence they return to the inte- 
rior with a load of salt. ■ 

Judimahoo.~A town in Grisse, 58 miles W. by S. from Cuttack. Lat 20* 
iong,86*13'E. 

i 2 



THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. 


A large province extending along the west-side of the bay of Bengal, from the 
15th to the 20th degrees of north latitude. The sea bounds it to the east, along 
a coast of 470 miles from Mootapilly, its southern extremity, to Malond on the 
borders of the Chilka lake. It is divided from the provinces of Hyderabad, by 
range of small detached hills extending to the banks of the Godavery, and to 
the north of that river separated from Gundwana, by a continued range of 
mountains almost impassable for horse or wheeled carriages, to the north- 
western extremity of the Circars at Goomsur. From hence the chain of hills 
curves to the eastward, and, with the Chilka lake, forms a barrier of 50 miles 
to the north, except a tongue of land betwixt that lake and the sea. Towards 
the south, the small river Gundegama, which empties itself at Mootapilly, sepa- 
rates the Circars from Ongole, aad the Carnatic below the Ghauts. The 
area or superficial contents, as originally acquired by the British government, 
may be estimated at 17,000 geographical square miles, of which (in 1784) one- 
fifrh was estimated to be in cultivation or fallow, two-fifths in pasture, and the 
remainder woods, waver, towns, barren hills, or a sandy waste three miles in 
breadth, bordering the whole extent of the sea-coast. 

The grand divisions of this territory are naturally fi w e, principally marked by 
rivers running across from the hills on the western frontier. These divisions are 
Guntoor or Mortizabad ; Condapilly or Mustaphabad ; Ellore, Rajamundry, and 
Cicacole, anciently named Calinga. 

The climate of this region, to the north of Godavery, will be described under 
the article Cicacole: to the south of that river, for the first two months, strong 
southerly gales prevail along shore, which, together with the sea breenes, mo- 
derate the heat; but the baleful influence of the former, m blowing over salt 
stagnant marshes on the coast, is injurious to animal life, and destructive to 
vegetation. During the succeeding month until the rains, the wind coming 
from the west over a parched loose soil of great extent, uninterrupted by any 
continued chain of hills, and along the broad, sandy, and almost dry bad tf the 



THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. 6l 

Krishna, becomes so intolerably hot near the mouth of that river, as to raise the 
thermometer sometimes for an entire week to 110°, and even in other parts it 
has been known to stand at 1 12° at eight o’clock in the evening, and at midnignt 
•o high as 108°. Neither wood nor glass is capable of bearing this heat for any 
length of time; the latter, such as shades and globe lanterns, crack and fly to 
pieces; the former warps and shrinks so, that the nails fall out of the doors and 
tables. Another peculiarity of the climate is the noxious state of the air in 
all the hilly regions, throughout the different seasons of vegetation, which oc- 
casions the distemper called the hill fever. This has been attributed to many 
causes, but is probably owing to the grossness of an atmosphere fat with fogs, 
and surcharged with the exhalations of a luxuriant soil pent up in vallies, 
having the free circulation impeded by the surrounding jungles and forests. 

From Coringa to Ganjam the coast, as viewed from the sea, appears moun- 
tainous, and from Coringa, southwards, low, flat, and sandy. The whole sea- 
coast is of a sandy nature, gradually improving towards the hills. The same 
ground seldom yields more than one crop of grain annually, but there being 
plenty of water this is generally a heavy one. There are many small rivers 
running towards the sea, divided artificially into canals, and afterwards con- 
ducted into tanks and great reservoirs. The principal quadrupeds are sheep and 
the larger species of homed cattte ; and the neighbouring sea, with its nume- 
rous inlets, abounds with every species of Indian fish. The Oircars are exceed- 
ingly productive of grain, and formerly, during the north-easterly monsoon, were 
the granary of the Carnatic, in like manner as Tanjore was reckoned on during 
the south-west monsoon. Fruits, roots, and greens, are scarce, and raised with 
difficulty to the south of the Godavery, and even to the north of that river ; it 
is supposed owing to the influence of the sea-air. Sugar and cotton are pro- 
duced, and of the latter a great deal is brought from the interior provinces ; bay- 
salt and tobacco (the latter excellent) are both exported. The forests of Raja* 
mundry, from the commencement of the hills along the banks of the Godavery tq 
Poloonsha, yield an abundance of large teak trees. 

Plain long cloth is wrought in the island of Nagore and its vicinity, which 
forms the ground-work of the best printed calicoes iU Europe, and those called 
palempores at Masulipatam ; coarser cloths are made to the north and south of 
the Godavery. The muslins of Cicacole, the woollen carpets of Ellore, and the 
silks of Berhaxnpoor, are rather objects of curiosity than considerable in quantity. 
The latter are made of silk imported from China and Bengal. Ships of 500 tons 
have been constructed at Coringa andNarsipoor,thetwo principal mouths of the 
Godavery, and about 50,000 tons of small craft are employed in the coasting 
tsgde, The eacports to Europe are chiefly the fine cotton manufactures. A 



62 THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. 

great proportion of the coasting trade is carried on with Madras, and consists 
chiefly of grain, the returns for which, from Madras are the coarser sorts of 
cloths. The articles carried to the interior by the native inland traders are salt 
piece goods, copper, and raw silk from Bengal; the returns are principally cotton 
and wheat. 

The principal part of the East India Company's investment of piece goods 
is provided in these Circars. The thread is generally spun by the cultivating 
caste of inhabitants, and there are regulations enacted for the protection of the 
weavers. The latter, on the whole, have the means of being more comfortable 
than the labouring class, but they are commonly of a more dissipated turn, apd 
squander away their surplus gains in gaming and cock-fighting. The female 
population at large in general prepare the thread, and sell the produce of their 
week's work to the weaver at the market, and procure cotton sufficient for the 
next week. The females also of decayed families, who have little means of em- 
ploying themselves from the secluded nature of their lives, derive from this source 
a support for their feeble existence. A considerable part of the cotton used in 
the manufactures is raised in the country, and the rest brought from the interior 
of the Deccan by traders who carry back a return of salt. The cotton raised 
within the province is preferred, being cleaner, but the crop is very precarious. 
Every cultivator allots some portion of ground for this cotton, and with a good 
season it is productive, but either too much or too little rain destroys it. The 
cleaning process is performed by a distinct tribe whose occupation it is. 

The internal commerce of Madras with the Northern Circars may be classed 
under the heads of northern and southern coasting trade; the northern partaking 
more of the Bengal and Rangoon trade, while the southern has a large proportion 
of that of the eastward, Ceylon, and the Malabar coast The traffic is mostly 
carried on by the natives, and in the craft which they navigate; some exception, 
however, must be made regarding piece goods, the great staple of the Circars, 
which are considered too valuable to be confided to such craft. These piece 
goods are principally punjum cloths to a large amount, besides those in use 
among the natives of Madras. The piece goods from Masulipatam are mostly 
coloured, and these are frequently again re-exported from Bombay; but moat of 
the shipments for the Persian gulf are sent direct from Masulipatam. The next 
considerable article of export from the Northern Circars is grain, which in sea- 
sons of common produce is exported annually to Madras, and Consists chiefly of 
rice, paddy, wheat, with other edible grains used only by die natives; to 
which may be added horse-gram, sonegaloo, with a very large proportion of oil 
seeds. 

Goods are frequently landed in this province by vessels trading from Bengal, 



THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. 63 

and afterwards exported to Madras, among which number are long pepper root, 
shinbins, and stick lac. Amongst other exports to Madras are chillies, fire- 
wood, coriander seed, cashew nuts, and many other trifling articles in use among 
die natives, both as drugs, and such as are requisite for the performance of their 
multifarious religious ceremonies. The exports and re-exports from Madras to 
the Northern Circars are not so considerable as might have been expected, when 
the great military force and population of the province are considered, and also 
that Hyderabad, the Nizam's capital, receives part of its supplies through Ma- 
sulipatam. Treasure is exported from Madras to this province for the purchase of 
salt, and of investments for the English market. The re-exports from Madras 
to the Northern Circars are chiefly European and China goods, for the consump- 
tion of officers and others employed in that quarter. The most valuable of the 
above articles are Madeira, claret, port wine, ale, brandy, oilman's stores, glass 
ware, stationery, tea, with copper of various kinds, steel, hardware, &c. To 
these may be added, goods received from the eastward, such as betel nut to a 
large amount, alum, cloves, benzoin, pepper, tin, dammer and borax. A quan- 
tity of arrack is also received from Madras, a considerable proportion of which 
is afterwards forwarded to Hyderabad for the use of the European troops 
stationed there. 

The native inhabitants of the Northern Circars, exclusive of a few Mahonu 
rned&ns dispersed through the different towns, are wholly Hindoos, and may be 
estimated to exceed 3,000,000. They are composed of the two nations of Te- 
linga and Ooria, Oria, or Orissa, formerly divided by the Godavery, but greatly 
intermixed since their union. They speak and write different dialects, and have 
rites, customs, and characteristical traits, perfectly distinguishable from each 
other. The four great castes' or ^ub-divisions of the people are common in both 
countries, but the Orias are supposed to deviate less from the original institutions 
than the others. The Brahmins continue to enjoy their pre-eminence. The 
Rachewars, Rowwars, and Velmas, of which denomination the principal zemin- 
dars are composed, affect the manner of Rajpoots, and pretend to be of the 
Khetri, or warlike class. The remainder are husbandmen, cowherds, weavers; 
together with the artificers hereafter enumerated, and maintained by the greater 
villages, all of the Sudra caste. In addition to these are the retail shopkeepers, 
who are mostly of the third or Vaisya caste. 

The five Northern Circars when acquired by the East India Company, con- 
sisted of zemindary and havelly lands. The first are situated in the hill country 
of ft it western frontier, and in the plains between the hills and the sea. The 
hill aemiadaia, secure in the woody and unwholesome heights which they inha- 



64 the northern circars. 

bited, and encouraged by the hope of an eventual asylum in Hi e dominions of the 
Nizam and Nagpoor Raja, had often furnished examples of successful depreda- 
tion and unpunished revolt. They were surrounded by military tenants, whose 
lands were held on stipulations of personal service, and whose attachment te 
their chiefs was increased by the bond of family connexion. These zemindars 
consisted of three classes : 1st, The Velmas of Telinga origin, who were driven 
from the Carnatic, in the year 1652, by the Mahommedan arms, and who estab- 
lished themselves on the borders of the Krishna. 2dly, The Rachewars of the 
race of the ancient sovereigns of Orissa, who were also forced by the MahOm- 
medans to relinquish the plains, and retire to the highland woods which form 
the western frontier. 3dly, The Woriar, petty chieftains of the military tribe, 
who, after the overthrow of Orissa by the Mahommedans, were enabled by their 
local situation to acquire an independent jurisdiction, their possessions being 
chiefly situated in the mountainous tract on the western boundary of Cicacole. 

When the province devolved to the British, the zemindars were, for the most 
part, in a very irregular state of subjection to the Nizam, and not' only the forms, 
but the remembrance of civil authority seemed to have been lost. With respect 
to the other class, or havelly lands which constitute a large portion of the 
Northern Circars, they consisted of the demesne, or household lands of the 
sovereign. These were composed of districts in the vicinity of each capital 
town, which were originally resumed by the Mahommedan government, and had 
been annexed to these towns for the supply of the garrisons and numerous es- 
tablishments, both civil and military. The following is the description of a vil- 
lage in this province, which also applies with little variation to the greater part 
of -the Deccan and south of India. . 

Geographically .considered, a village here is a tract of country comprising some 
hundred, or some thousand, acres of arable or waste land ; politically viewed, 
it resembles a township or corporation. Its proper establishment of officers and 
servants consist of the following descriptions : — • 

1. The potail or head inhabitant, who has a general superintendance of the 
affairs of the' village, settles disputes, attends to the police, and collects the re- 
venue within his village. 

2. The tallia and totie : the duty of the first consists m gaming information df 
crimes and offences, and in escorting and protecting travellers from one village 
to another; the duties of the latter appear to be confined immediately to the 
village, where he guards the crops and assists in measuring them. 

3. The boundary man, who preserves the limits of the village, or gives evi- 
dence respecting them in case of dispute. 



THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. 


65 


4. The cutnum, or village accountant. 

5. The superintendent of the tanks and water courses, who distributes the 
water therefrom for the purposes of agriculture. 

6. The Brahmin, who performs the village worship. 

7. The school-master, who is seen teaching the children to read and write on 
the sand* 

8. The calendar Brahmin, or astrologer, who proclaims the lucky* and unpro- 
pitious periods for sowing and threshing. 

9. The smith and carpenter, who manufacture the implements of agriculture, 
and build the dwelling of the cultivator. 

10. The potman or potter ; the washerman ; the barber ; the cowkeeper, who 
looks after the cattle ; the doctor ; the dancing girl, who attends at rejoicings ; 
the musician ; and the poet. 

These officers and servants generally constitute the establishment of a Hindoo 
village. In addition to the portion of land appropriated to the pagoda esta- 
blishment, to the local officers of government, and to the village servants, they 
were each entitled to certain small shares or perquisites from the crops of the 
villagers. Under this simple form of government the inhabitants lived from 
time immemorial. The boundaries of villages have been but seldom altered ; 
and though the villages have been sometimes injured, and even desolated by war, 
famine, and disease, the same name, the same limits, and even the same families 
have continued for ages. The inhabitants give themselves no trouble about the 
breaking up and division of kingdoms ; while the village remains entire they 
care not to what power it is transferred, or to what sovereignty it devolves, its 
internal economy still remaining unchanged. 

In A. D. 1541, the Mahommedans, under the command of Mahommed Khan 
Leshkeree, of the Bhamenee empire of Beeder, carried their arms into the 
Northern Circars, and conquered Condapilly. Nine years afterwards they carried 
their arms still further, and subdued all Guntoor, and the districts of Masulipa- 
tam; but the country was very imperfectly reduced, and its subjection, in the 
European sense, merely nominal, as it appears to have been again conquered 
from the Hindoo princes of Orissa about the year 1571, during the reign of 
Ibrahim Cuttub Shah of Hyderabad or Golconda. In 1687, these provinces, 
along with the empire of Hyderabad, fell under the dominion of Aurengzebe ; but 
he does not appear to have paid much attention to them, being too busily em- 
ployed elsewhere. In 1724, they were transferred from the reigning house of 
Ttm0ur r to that of Nizam ul Mulk, who immediately took active and real posses- 
sion, collected the revenue and fixed a civil and military establishment. He was 
succeeded by his third son Salabut Jung, who, being greatly indebted for his 

rot. ii. & 



66 THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. 

elevation to the intrigues and military assistance of the French East India Com- 
pany, rewarded their services, in 1752, by a grant of the district of Condavir or 
Guntoor, and soon after ceded the other Circars. 

The capture of Masulipatam, in 1759, by the British army under Colonel 
Forde, having deprived them of all real power, these territories reverted to the 
Nizam, with the exception of the acknowledged dependencies of the town and 
fortress of Masulipatam, which were retained by the English East India. Com- 
pany. Deprived of the support of the French, Salabut Jung was soon super- 
seded in his authority by his brother Nizam Ali. In 1765, Lord Clive obtained 
from the Mogul a grant of four of the Circars, namely, Cicacole, Rajamundry, 
Ellore, and Condapilly, which in the following year was confirmed by a treaty 
entered into with the Nizam. The remaining Circar of Guntoor was, at that 
time, in the possession of Bazalet Jung the brother of the Nizam, by whom it 
was held in jaghire. It was contingently stipulated for in the treaty with the 
Nizam, subject to the life of Bazalet Jung, who died in 1782, but it did not 
come into the possession of the British until 1788. 

The local government u* the Northern Circars was continued under the ma- 
nagement of the natives until 1769, when provincial chiefs and councils were ap- 
pointed, and this mode of government continued until 1794. During this period 
the power of the zemindars was very great, and in 1777, it was calculated that 
the number of armed men maintained by them amounted to 41,000. In 1794, 
a change in the internal government of this province took place, which was fol- 
lowed by the punishment of the great zemindar of Vizianagrum, and the re- 
storation of such zemindars as had been unjustly deprived of their lands by that 
family. Small progress, however, has as ye* been made in the proper arrange- 
ment of these Circars, compared with other districts similarly situated, al- 
though a considerable improvement has taken place in the general character and 
efficiency of the revenue department. The system of a permanent settlement of 
the territorial revenue was introduced and established in the Northern Circars 
during the years 1802 and 1804, when the province was divided into five regular 
jurisdictions and collectorates, viz. Ganjam, Vizagapatam, Rajamundry, Masuli- 
patam, and Guntoor. 

The Northern Circars for their defence require six battalions of native infantry, 
of which three must always be dispersed, as their localities differ widely from 
those of the districts to the south the Krishna. This province comprehends 
a narrow extended line of coast, bounded on the west by a strong range of 
woody mountains independent of the British government, with a most insalubri- 
ous climate. The political distinction between this portion of the Deccan and 
the province of Malabar consists, in our having possession of the country above 



ganjam.] THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. 67 

the latter, by which means the inhabitants can at all times be kept in check, and 
consequently small detachments will suffice ; but in the Circars larger bodies of 
troops must always remain in a collected state. The most efficient arrangement 
appears to be one battalion at Ganjam, another at Vizianagrum, a third in the 
Masulipatam district; the remaining three at Ellore or any healthy station in its 
vicinity. From these corps, field detachments are almost constantly necessary 
to repel the incursions of plunderers from the mountains, a species of warfare 
equally fetal to the health and discipline of the troops employed. These perni- 
cious effects might in part be obviated by a more distinct line of demarkation 
between the British territories and those of his highness the Nizam, the want of 
which proves a fertile source of contention between the subjects of the two 
states. — ( J. Grant , 5th Report , White , Sir Samuel Auchmuty , Johnson, Renncll ' 
21. Grant , $c.) 


THE DISTRICT OF GANJAM. 

This district occupies the northernmost portion of the five Circars, and has a 
very extensive line of sea coast. To the north, it borders on the district of 
Cuttack, which is subordinate to the Bengal presidency ; to the south on that of 
Vizagapatam ; to the east it has the bay of Bengal ; and on the west a barbarous 
and unexplored tract of the Orissa province. The interior of this territory is 
hilly, but not fer from the shore there are large and fertile plains, the district being 
on the whole one of the most productive under the Madras presidency. The 
climate is also more salubrious than some of the more southern Circars, the 
land winds being comparatively little felt, but it has notwithstanding occa- 
sionally, especially in 1815, experienced the ravages of a pestilential fever, 
which seemed to be visiting successively every portion of Hindostan. 

In the year 1817, the total gross collection of the public revenue was as 
follows : — 


Land revenue 243,225 star pagodas. 

Salt 46,235 

Land customs 8,986 

Exclusive sale of spirits (Abkarry) 12,720 
Sundry small branches of revenue 

Stamps 1,787 

Tobacco monopoly 


Total . 

x 2 


312,956 



68 THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. [chilka lake. 

The principal towns for the coasting trade in this district are Ganjam, Mun- 
surcotta, Soonapoor, Barrah, Calingapatam, and Baupanapados. At which 
ports, between the 1st of May, 1811, and the 30th of April, 1812, 83 vessels 
and craft, measuring 9470 tons arrived ; and 206, measuring 25,802 tons, de- 
parted. The exports consist of cotton, cloth, rice, sugar, rum, pulses of all 
kinds, gums and hill produce, wax, ghee, and salt to Bengal. 

This district escaped the Pindary invasion; which desolated Guntoor in 1816, 
but in the succeeding year it had a visit from these depredators, who, although 
expelled in the short period of eleven days, committed ravages and left an im- 
pression of terror on the minds of the inhabitants, scarcely inferior to what had 
been experienced in Guntoor. Travelling distance from Calcutta, 372 miles; 
from Madras, 650 miles. — (J. Grant , Hodgson , Report on external Commerce , 
%c. $c. 8$c.) 

Ganjam ( Ganjam , the dep6t ). — The capital of the preceding district, situated 
near the sea coast, in the Bay of Bengal, lat. 19° 2T N. long. 85° 10' E. The fort 
here is a small pentagon on plain ground, strengthened in the native style, yet 
when properly garrisoned, capable of making a considerable resistance. Sugar 
and jagary are produced in the neighbourhood, but the country to the north of 
Ganjam is very low, and under water during the rains. About the middle of 
1815, a very destructive fever broke out here, which raged with such violence, 
that in eight weeks 700 persons died of it, and provisions became very scarce in 
consequence of all the banyans having fled the place to save themselves. In 
December of that year, the fever continuing with undiminished violence, the 
town was nearly deserted, and the distemper spread to the neighbouring villages, 
in consequence of which the magistrate was authorized to remove the court of 
justice for a time to Cicacole. — ( Upton , Bayard , §c.) 

Mom n dr a Mallee (The Chain of Maha Indra ). — A chain of hills in the 
Ganjam district, which extend along the sea coast from N. E. to S. W, a few 
miles distant from the beach. 

Chilka Lake.— This lake separates the five Northern Circars towards the 
sea from the province of Cuttack: In length it may be estimated at 35 miles by 
8 the average breadth, is very shallow, and contains several inhabited islands. 
This lake seems to have been an operation of the sea on a sandy shore, the ele- 
vation of which was but little above the level of the country within the beach. 
On the N. W. it is bounded by a ridge of mountains, a continuation of that 
which extends from the Mahanuddy to the Godavery river, and encloses the 
Northern Circars towards the interior. The Chilka kike therefore forms a pass 
on each side into the province of Cuttack, and presents an agreeable diversity 



goomsur.] THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. 69 

of objects — mountains, islands, and forests. From on board ship at a distance 
from the land it has the appearance of a deep bay, the slip of land which sepa- 
rates it from the sea not being visible. This space, for several miles along the 
southern and eastern shore, is about a mile broad, and an entire neck of sand. 
Near Munickpatam the branch of the Chilka is about three-fourths of a mile 
broad, and difficult to cross when the wind blows strong. — ( Howell, Upton , <§'c.J 

Vi si a nag ur.— —A town in the Northern Circars, 16 miles W. from Ganjam. 
Lat. 19° 23' N. long. 84° 50' E. 

Calicoote.— A town in the Northern Circars, 21 miles N. from Ganjam. 
Lat. 19° 4<y N. long. 85° 11' E. 

Kimedv (Cumadi). — A town in the Northern Circars, 34 miles N. by E. from 
Cicacole. Lat. 18° 42' N. long. 84° IT E. 

Squrera. — A town in the Northern Circars, 35 miles W. from the Chilka 
Lake. Lat. 19° 49' N. long. 84° 49' E. 

Goomsur ( Ghumsara ), — A town and large zemindary in the district of Gan- 
jam. Lat. 19° 52' N. 84° 58' E. 60 miles W. from Juggemauth. The country in 
this neighbourhood is remarkably impenetrable, the forests consisting entirely of 
bamboos, which grow closer and resist the axe better than any other species of 
ligneous vegetation. In former times, the inhabitants relying on these, did not 
think it necessary to erect redoubts for the defence of the paths to their strong 
holds, but obstructed them with frequent barriers of bamboos, wrought into a 
variety of entanglement. Besides its naturally pestilential atmosphere, the 
whole territory is one of the hottest in India, and is peculiarly subject to strokes 
of the sun, by which M. Bussy, in 1757, lost seven Europeans in one day. In 
1804, this estate stood rated in the revenue records as containing 506 villages, 
with an estimated population of 66,046 persons, and assessed to the land tax 
21,428 pagodas ; but the proprietor, although in regular subjection to the British 
authority, so long as he paid his stipulated rent, had been but little interfered 
with. When originally transferred to the East India Company, several of the 
best informed public functionaries were of opinion, that owing to the peculiar 
delicacy of extending the full authority of the courts of law over zemindaries 
situated upon the frontiers, and among the high lands, it would be more ad- 
visable to regard the proprietors rather as tributary chieftains, than as ordinary 
subjects amenable to the usual process of the courts of justice. In the pro- 
gression of time, however, the population generally, and even many of the ze- 
mindars have been forward in bringing their matters of litigation before the re- 
gular courts, and have subsequently submitted to the decrees without murmur 
criesistukce. The Goomsur chiefs had all along remained nearly independent, 



70 THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. [goomsi 

and might have continued so had not the enormous atrocity of their conduc* 
compelled the interference of the British government. 

In 1815, a charge of murder was brought against the zemindar Danocngjoy 
Bunje, by his own father, who for his own previous crimes had been deprived of 
the zemindary, and a reward proclaimed for his apprehension. An investigation 
in consequence took place, when it appeared from the evidence of the surviving 
females of his seraglio, that the zemindar Danoongjoy Bunje, in 1814, became 
impressed with an idea, that his wives and the female part of his family had con- 
spired to deprive him of life, with the view of setting up his eldest son named 
Bulbudder Bunje as zemindar of the country. Under this alarm the zemfodar 
confined a great many of his wives, concubines, and slave girls, most of w$iom 
from the inhuman treatment they received during their imprisonment died on 
the spot. The survivors deposed before the magistrate that they were all chained 
to a log of wood, placed in the centre of two rooms, with holes large enough for 
two legs, that being thus seated in pairs opposite to each other, each having one 
leg in the hole of the log, they were secured by a wooden pin, but the remaining 
legs were placed on the top of the log, chained together in irons. Several of 
them declared (one only 13 years of age) that they had witnessed the death of 
the person to whom they were chained, until the corpse became putrid and 
covered with worms, and as the marks on their limbs proved that they had un- 
dergone at least some part of the cruelties they asserted, the black and malig- 
nant nature of the zemindars disposition rendered the rest extremely probable. 

Orders were in consequence issued to seize the person of the zemindar, and 
dismantle the strong fortress of Kolaida, which fortress, although within 50 
miles of Ganjam, the zemindar repeatedly asserted by letter, existed only in the 
imagination of the magistrate. When attacked, however, in May, 1815, by a 
small detachment of the Madras army, under Colonel R. Fletcher, it wai found 
to be of such extent and strength, that the troops during their stay were only 
able to destroy the stockades and houses. From thence the detachment pro- 
ceeded in pursuit of the zemindar to Jarang, where they did not succeed in 
effecting his capture, but had the good fortune to effect the release of about 100 
men who were found in irons, besides women and children, and some were 
reported to have been put to death on the approach of the military. 

Anxious to establish or confute the assertions of the female witnesses, the 
magistrate determined to visit the gloomy fortress of Kolaida, to examine a well 
in which it was said the bodies of those who had died in confinement had been 
thrown, and to collect further information on the spot. The well being pointed 
out by two female slaves, who according to their own account had been em- 
ployed in putting the dead bodies there, after six hours digging finger bones. 



THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. 


CICACOLE.] 


71 


ribs, and other parts of the human frame began to make their appearance, inter* 
mixed with earth, and after a further lapse of time a great number of sculls and 
bones were met with. In excavating to the depth of 24 feet, eighteen entire 
sculls Were thrown out, and an immense pile of bones collected, from the con- 
dition ot which there was reason to believe the bodies they appertained to must 
have lain a long time in the well, as all the flesh and hair were gone, and nothing 
remained perfect but the bones and teeth, the whole corroborating the deposi- 
tions as to the fact of the bodies having been thrown into a well. It appeared 
also that the zemindar, apprehending a research of this nature, had ordered two 
of his dependants to dig the wells and remove the bodies, which had actually 
been done (as they confessed) with another well. Three human sculls with a 
quantity of bones were also found in the fortress of Kolaida by the officers of 
the detachment, close to five stakes wedged into the ground, which had every 
appearance of a place appropriated to confinement and torture. In fact, the hill 
zemindars of the Circars had long been accustomed to exercise despotically the 
power of life and death, and also to levy contributions through the means of a 
desperate banditti, the present therefore seemed an excellent opportunity to 
make an example of a most atrocious petty tyrant, but we have no further infor- 
motion on the subject, except that he had voluntarily surrendered himself to the 
collector and was under confinement atGanjam . — ( Travers , Woodcock , Or me, 
#c.j 

Bourasinchv. — A town in the Northern Circars, 37 miles S. W. from Gan- 
jam. Lat. 19° N. long. 84° 45' E. 

Cicacole (Chicacula ). — The largest of the Northern Circars, and now com- 
prehended in the modern district of Ganjam, of which it forms by far the largest 
portion, what follows may therefore be considered as applying to that district 
and the Circars generally. In a geographical point of view, it is subdivided 
into two parts. The first lies between the river Setteveram on the south ; the 
rivy Poondy on the north ; and extends about 170 miles along the bay of Bengal. 
In its greatest dimensions it stretches inland to the mountainous region on the 
west, about CO miles ; comprising an area of about 4,400 square miles. The 
second subdivision is of a triangular figure, extending about 80 miles from 
Poondy to Malonde, on the southern frontier of Cuttack, aud 50 miles to the 
N. W. angle .at Goomsur. It contains about 1600 square miles of superficial 
measure, exclusive of that portion of country, ‘situated along the great ridge of 
boundary mountains to the west 

11m climat e of die Northern Circars (of which Cicacole occupies so large a 
space), with a general conformity to that of Hindostan, has from local position. 



72 the NORTHERN CIRCARS. [cicacole. 

and other circumstances, some peculiarities in each of the three seasons. The 
periodical rains usually set in about the middle of June, with a westerly wind, 
in moderate showers, until the end of August, which month concludes the small 
grain harvest. From this time the rain continues in great abundance until the 
beginning of November, when it generally breaks up with violence, and is suc- 
ceeded by the north-easterly wind. The middle of this latter and pleasant 
season, early in January, finishes the harvest for rice and bajary, which are the 
great productions of the country north of the Godavery. The-close of the ver- 
nal equinox terminates the third harvest, which is the grand one for maize, as 
well as for. all the different, species of grain and pease, south or that river. Then 
begins the hot season, which is always extremely moderate towards the northern 
extremity of the Circars near Ganjam, by reason of the constant diurnal sea 
breezes, and the position of the neighbouring hills from south to west, contrary 
to the ordinary dirtetion of the wind at Masulipatam. 

The southern division of Cicacole, with a better soil than is found in the other 
parts of the circar, is watered by four rivers, which have their outlets at Vizaga- 
patam, Bimlipatam, Cicacole, and Calingapatam, besides many lesser streams 
during the rains. Northward in the territory of Jehapoor, the land is fertilized by 
the Ganjam and other smaller rivers. The Cicacole circar taken altogether has 
few extensive plains, and its hills increase in frequency and magnitude as they 
approach the vast range of mountains bounding this and the district of Raja- 
mundry to the north-west. The hills and narrower bottoms, which separate 
them, were formerly suffered by the native chiefs to be overrun with jungle, as 
the best protection to the opener vallies allotted for cultivation. During the 
Carnatic wars that province was supplied with considerable quantities of rice 
from Cicacole.; but since the restoration of tranquillity, and transfer of the 
Arcot dominions to the company, the necessity for importation has greatly dimi- 
nished. Cicacole was ceded to the French in 1753, by Salabut Jung, the reign- 
ing Soubahdar of the Deccan, at which period its limits extended from tire 
Godavery to the pagoda of Juggernauth. At the above period the French pos- 
sessed territories greater, both in value and extent, than had ever been possessed 
in Hindostan by Europeans, not excepting the Portugueze when at the height 
of their prosperity It was acquired along with the dewanny of Bengal in 1705, 
during the government of Lord Clive.— (J. Grant , Ormc, White , djrcj 
Cicacole. — The ancient capital of the preceding circar, by the Mahommed&ns 
named Mapbus Bunder. Lht. 18° l’S' N. long. 84° E. 55 miles N. N. E. from 
Vizagapatam. At this place there is a mosque of considerable sanctity, erected 
in the year of the Hijfeni, 1051, oy Shej^h Mahommed Khan. In A. D. 1815, in 



vi z AO abatah.] THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. 73 

consequence of a contagious fever which raged with great violence at Ganjam, 
the courts of justice and revenue were ordered for a time to be transferred to 
Cicacole, which had escaped the distemper. 

Elmore. — A town in the Northern Circars, 16 miles N. by E. from Cicacole. 
Lat. 18° 26' N. long. 84° 10' E. 

Calinqapatam. — A town in the Northern Circars, 16 miles E. from Cicacole. 
Lat. 18° 15' N. long. 85° 11' E. 

Ryaguddt. — A town in the Northern Circars, 60 miles N. W. from Cicacole. 
Lat. 18° 65' N. long. 83° 25' E, 

Curipum (Caribhum ). — A town in the Northern Circars, 42 miles N. W. from 
Cicacole. Lat. 18° 42' N. long. 83° 36' E, 

Curode. — A town in the Northern Circars, 52 miles E. by N. from Bustar. 
Lat. 19° 38' N. long, 83° 16' E. 

THE DISTRICT OF VIZAGAPATAM. 

This is the second district into which the Northern Circars were subdivided, 
and is principally situated between the 17th and 19th degrees of north latitude. 
On the north it is bounded by Ganjam ; on the south by Rajamundry ; to the east 
it has the bay of Bengal ; and on the west the hilly and woody province of 
Gundwana. The climate and productions so entirely resemble those of Gan- 
jam, and its internal distribution into zemindaries and talooks so exactly similar, 
as to render all details on these points unnecessary. The principal towns are 
Vizagapatam, Bimlipatam, Vizianagrum, and Bobilee. Like all other border 
districts within the Company’s territories, this tract had long been infested by 
plunderers, and it had been on many occasions remarked, that no good resulted 
from a mere active pursuit of these depredators by the regular troops, owing to 
the pestiferous nature of the climate among the hills, as well as the ignorance of 
the country where the freebooters had their dens and fastnesses. It was therefore 
thought expedient, as the zemindars had shewn a very strong inclination to sup- 
press these inroads, to give them encouragement in the pursuit, and partially 
assist them with the means. Instructions were in consequence issued by the 
Madras presidency to the proper officer, directing him to furnish the zemindars 
and renters with gunpowder, and to comply with such indents for that article as 
might be produced with the sanction of the magistrate. 

The principal trading towns of this district are Vizagapatam and Bimlipatam. 
From Calcutta the imports consist of cumin seeds, long pepper, wheat, and 
Madeira wine ; and from Ceylon and the Maldives islands, large supplies of coco 
nuts* coir, and cowries. Wax, salt, and coir, compose the principal articles 
of export to Calcutta, and rice to the Maldives. The consignments to London 

VOL. II. i 



74 THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. {vizagapatam, 

are chiefly of indigo, and the staples of the district are wax, salt, and indigo. 
A considerable quantity of cloth is manufactured in the country, and the inha- 
bitants of the town are very expert in carving curious little boxes of ivory and 
bone. Between the 1st May, 1811, and the 30th April, 1812, 233 vessels and 
craft, measuring 25,740 tons, arrived ; and 305 vessels, measuring 33,847 tons, de- 
parted. 

In 1817, the tbtal gross collection of the public revenue in this district was 


as follows : — 

Land revenue 3(54,91 1 star pagodas. 

Salt 33,038 

Land customs . 17,152 

Exclusive sale of spirits 14,014 

Sundry small branches of revenue . . „ 

Stamps . 3,023 

Tobacco monopoly „ 


Total 432,138 

( Parliamentary Reports, Hodgson , Ormc, tfre* $c . ) 

Vizagapatam. — The capital of the preceding district and residence of the 
judge and magistrate. Lat. 17° 42' N, long. 83° 24' E. At this place the hills 
form a kind of promontory at what is called the Dolphin’s Nose, a mountain 
about 1500 feet high, which projects into the sea, and forms with those a little 
north of it a kind of bay. This range of hills continues along shore at a small 
distance from the sea, as far as Tuny, where they take a S. W. direction. 

The town of Vizagapatam is inconsiderable, the European inhabitants mostly 
residing at Waltier, a village to the north of the harbour. A small river coming 
from the north, and turning short eastward to the sea, forms an arm of land one 
mile and a half in length, 606 yards in breadth, nearly in the miudle of which 
stands the fort of Vizagapatam. During the ebb the surf here is very consider- 
able ; and as European boats, for want of Massula craft, are obliged frequently 
to go in, to escape being upset they ought to keep close to the Dolphin’s Nose. 
At Semachellum, near to this place, is a Hindoo temple of great fame and an- 
tiquity. 

In A. D. 1689, in the reign of Aurengzebe, during a rupture between that 
monarch and the East India Company, their warehouses here were seized, and 
all the residents of that nation put to death. In 1757 it was taken by M. 
Bussy, and along with the rest of the province was acquired by Lord Clive in 
.1765. Travelling distance from Madras 483 miles; from Nagpoor 394 ; from 
Hyderabad 355 ; and from Calcutta 557 miles . — (Parliamentary Reports, Orme, 
Johnson , 6$c.) 



bo biles.] THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. 75 

AnkapillYv — A town in the Northern Circars, 15 miles W. from Vizagapatam . 
Lat. 17 9 41' N. long. 83® 11' E. 

Sing arum cotta. — A town in the Northern Circars, 24 miles N. by W. from 
Vizagapatam. Lat. 18° 3' N. long. 83° 20' E. 

Cossimcotta. — A town in the Northern Circars, 16 miles W. by S. from Vi- 
zagapatam. Lat. 17° 39' N. long. 83° 8' E. 

Wooratla. — A town in the Northern Circars, 41 miles S.W. from Vizaga- 
patam. Lat. 17° 33' N . long. 82° 48' E. 

Belgaum ( Y ala grama ). — A town in the Northern Circars, 46 miles N. V. 
from Cicacole. Lat. 18° 36' N. long. 83° 25' E. 

Bejiporam. — A town in the Northern Circars, 90 miles W. from Vizagapa- 
tam. Lat. 17° 56' N. long. 82° 3' E. 

Bobilee. — A town and zemindary in the Northern Circars, 35 miles W. N. 
W. from Cicacole. Lat. 18° 25' N. long. 83° 31' E. In 1757 the first in rank of 
the poligars of this country was Rangaroo of Bobilee. His fort stood about 
52 miles N. by E. of Vizagapatam, close to the mountains, the dependent dis- 
trict being about 20 miles square. There had long been a deadly hatred between 
this poligar and Vizeram Rauze, an adjacent poligar, whose person, how-much - 
soever he feared his power, Rangaroo held in the utmost contempt, as of low 
extraction, and of new note. Vizeram Rauze persuaded the French commander, 
M. Bussy, to espouse his side of the quarrel, and the latter not foreseeing the 
terrible event to which he was proceeding, determined to reduce the whole 
country, and expel the zemindar and his family. 

A poligar, besides his other towns and forts, has always one situated in the 
most difficult part pf his country, which is intended as a last refuge for himself 
and all his blood. The singular construction of this fort, is adequate to all the 
intentions of defence among a people unused to cannon or the means of battery. 
Its outline is a regular square, which rarely exceeds 200 yards ; a round tower is 
raised at each of the angles, and a square projection in the middle of each of 
the sides. The height of the wall is generally 22 feet ; but the rampart within 
only 12, which is likewise its breadth at the top, although it is laid much broader 
at the bottom. The whole is of tempered clay -raised in distinct layers, each 
of which is left exposed to the sun until thoroughly hardened before the next 
is applied. The parapet rises 10 feet above the rampart, and is only three feet 
thick. It is indented five feet down from the top in interstices six inches wide, 
which are three feet asunder. A foot above the bottom of these interstices and 
battlements runs aline of round holes, another two feet lower, and a third two 
feet from the rampamen these holes are usually formed with pipes of baked clay, 

l 2 



76 THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. [bobilee. 

and serve for the purposes of fire arms, arrows, and lances. The interstices are 
for the freer use of these arms, instead of loop-holes, which cannot be inserted 
or cut in the clay. 

The towers and the square projection in the middle have the same parapet 
as the rest of the wall, and in two of the projections in the opposite sides of the 
fort are gateways, of which the entrance is not in the front, but on one side, 
from whence it is continued through half the mass, and then turns by a right 
angle into the place. On any alarm the whole passage is choked up with trees ; 
and the outside surrounded to some distance with a strong bed of thick thorny 
bushes. The rampart and parapet is covered by a shed of strong thatch, sup- 
ported by posts ; the eves of this shed project over the battlement. This shed 
affords shelter to those on the rampart, and guards it against the sun and the 
rain. An area of 500 yards or more, in every direction round the fort, is 
preserved clear, of which the circumference joins the high wood, which is kept 
thick, three er four miles in breadth round this centre. Few of these forts 
permit more than one path through the woods. The entrance of. the path 
from without is defended by a wall exactly similar in construction and strength 
to one of the sides of the fort, having its round towers at the ends, and square 
projection in the middle. From natural sagacity they never raise this redoubt 
on the edge of the wood, brt at the bottom of a recess cleared on purpose, and 
on each side of the recess raise a breastwork of earth or hedge to gall the 
approach. The path admits only three men abreast, winds continually, and is 
everywhere commanded by breast works in the thicket ; and has in its course 
several redoubts similar to that of the entrance, and like that flanked by breast- 
works on each hand. 

Such were the defences of Bobilee (which are given at length as a general 
specimen of all poligar forts), against which M. Bussy marched with 750 Euro- 
peans, of whom 250 were horse, four field pieces, and 11,000 peons and sepoys, 
the army of Vizeram Rauze* who commanded them in person. The attack 
commenced at break of day on the 24th of January, 1757, with the field pieces 
against the four towers, and by nine o’clock several of the battlements were 
broken. All the leading parties of the four divisions then advanced at the same 
time with scaling ladders, but, after much endeavour for an hour, not a man had 
been able to get on the rampart, and many had fallen wounded. Other parties fol- 
lowed with little success, until all were so fatigued that a cessation was ordered ; 
during which the field pieces having beaten down more of the parapet, gave the 
second attack greater advantage ; but the ardour of the defence increased with 
the danger. The garrison fought with the indignant ferocity of wild beasts, 
defending their dens and families ; several of them stood as in defiance, on the 



bobh.ee.] the northern circars. 77 

top of the battlements, and endeavoured to grapple with the first ascendants, 
hoping with them to twist the ladders down, and this tailing, stabbed with their 
lances ; but being wholly exposed, were easily shot by aim from the rear of the 
escalade. The assailants admired, for no Europeans had seen such excess of _ 
courage in the natives of Hindostan, and continually offered quarter, which was 
always answered by menace and intention of death ; not a man had gained the 
rampart at two in the afternoon, when another cessation of attack ensued. On 
this Rongaroo assembled the principal men, and told them there were no hopes 
of maintaining the fort ; and that it was immediately necessary to preserve their 
wives and children from the violation of the Europeans, and the still more 
ignominious authority of Vizeram Rauze. 

A number of the garrison, called without distinction, were allotted to the 
work. They proceeded every man with his lance, a torch, and his poinard, to 
the habitations in the middle of the fort ; to which they set fire indiscriminately, 
plying the flame with straw prepared with pitch or brimstone, and every man 
stabbed without remorse the woman or child whichsoever attempted to escape 
the flame and suffocation. The massacre being finished, those who accomplished 
it returned like men agitated by the furies to die themselves on the walls. 

M. Law, who commanded one of the divisions, observed that the number of 
defenders was considerably diminished, and advanced again to the attack. After 
several ladders had failed, a few grenadiers got over the parapet, and maintained 
their footing in the tower until more secured the possession. Rangaroo, hastening 
to the defence of the tower, was killed by a musket ball. His fall increased the 
desperation of his friends, who crowding to revenge his 'death left other parts of 
the rampart bare. The other divisions of the French troops having advanced, 
numbers on both sides got over the parapet without opposition, nevertheless 
none of the defenders quitted the rampart, or would accept quarter, but each 
advancing against or struggling with an antagonist would resign his poinard only 
with death. The slaughter of the conflict being over, another much more 
dreadful presented itself in the area below. The transport of victory lost all its 
joy ; all gazed on each other with silent astonishment and remorse, and the 
fiercest could not refuse a tear to the destruction spread before them. Four of 
the soldiers of Rangaroo, on seeing him fall, concealed themselves in an un- 
frequented part of the fort, until night was far advanced ; when they dropped 
down from the walls, and speaking the same language passed unsuspected through 
the quarters of Vizeram Rauze. They concealed themselves in the thicket, and 
the third night after, two of therh crawled into the tent of Vizeram Rauze, stabbed 
him in 32 places, and were immediately cut to pieces. Had they failed, the 



78 THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. [district of 

other two remaining in the forest were bound by the same oath to perform the 
same deed, or perish in the attempt. — ( Orme , ,) 

Bimijpatam ( Bhimalapatana ). — A sea-port town in the Northern Cheats, 16 
miles N.N.E. from Yizagapatam. Lat. 17° 53' N. long. 83° 34' E. A con- 
siderable traffic is carried on in native craft, and the Dutch have still a factory 
here, for the purchase of piece goods, various sorts of which are manufactured 
in the adjacent country. 

Vizi an ag rum. — The Capital and residence of the formerly powerful Raja of 
Vizianagrum, whose ancestor acted so conspicuous a part at the siege of Bobilee 
as above narrated. Lat. 18° 3' N. Jong. 83° 36' E. 26 miles N. by E. Of 
Vizagapatam. 

Conarah. — A town in the Northern Circars, 30 miles N. N. E. from Vizaga- 
patam. Lat. 17°. 59' N. long. 83° 44' E. 

THE DISTRICT OF RAJAMUNDRY (Rajamandiri). 

The third district of the Northern Circars, proceeding from the north, and 
situated between the 16^h and 17th degrees of north latitude. To the north it is 
bounded by the district of Vizagapatam ; on the south by that of Masulipatam; 
on the east it has the sea ; and on the west the dominions of his highness the 
Nizam. The limits of this district have undergone several fluctuations, and are 
at present but ill defined. Part of the original circar lies to the south, but the 
greater proportion to the north of the Godavery, which separates it from Ellore. 
This river divides itself into two great branches, 35 miles from the sea, with 
which it forms the island of Nagarum, a triangular space comprehending 500 
square miles ; but of very great value in proportion to its extent. From the 
Poliveram zemindary, on the west, the great range of hills limits this circar, 
and the small river Settieveram describes its northern boundary to Cicacole. 
In 1784 the whole circar of Rajamundry included about 1700 square miles of 
accessible territory. The intervening space between the small rivers Yellerie and 
Settieveram is subdivided by water courses to answer the purposes of irrigation 
iii the two principal zemindaries of Peddapore and Pettipoor. The island of 
Nagarum is enclosed by the two greater branches of the Godavery,, and inter- 
sected by five lesser ones, which render it very productive, it being the grand 
receptacle of all the slimy mould carried down by the greatest river of the 
Deccan. The forests of Rajamundry, from the commencement of the hills along 
the banks of the Godavery; to Paloonshah or. the frontiers of Cummumalt, 
produce abundance of teak trees, .tfiir being the only country on the east side 
of the bay of Bengal wluch umisbes this durable species of timber. 



rajamcjndry.] THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. 79 

The cultivation of sugar is carried on to a considerable extent in the Pedda- 
pore and Pettipoor zemindaries, along the banks of the Elyseram river, which 
though small has a constant flow of water the whole year, sufficiently large not 
only to water the sugar plantations during the driest seasons, but also a great 
variety of other productions, such as paddy, ginger, turmeric, yams and chillies* 
The stream of water, during the driest season, renders the lands adjoining more 
fertile than almost any other in India, and particularly fitted for the growth of 
the sugar cane. A considerable quantity of sugar also is raised in the Delta of 
the Godavery, and the cultivation might be increased to any amount. From the 
same spot they do not attempt to raise a crop oftener than every third or fourth 
year, but during the intermediate time, plants of the leguminous tribe are culti- 
vated. The method of cultivating the cane, and manufacturing the sugar by the 
natives in this district, is, like all their other works, extremely simple. The 
vhole apparatus, a few bullocks excepted, does not amount to more than six 
or eight pounds sterling. One acre of sugar cane in a tolerable season yields 
about 10 candy of sugar, each candy weighing about 500 pounds, and is worth 
on the spot per candy from 16 to 24 rupees. Here on an average six pounds of 
juice from good canes yield one pound of sugar. The refuse is given to cattle, 
or carried away by the labourers, there being no distilling of rum. 

The principal towns of this district are Rajamundry, Ingeram, Coringa, 
Bundermalanca, Peddapoor, and Pettipoor, but there is little export trade car- 
ried on, except from Coringa. The territory was ceded to the French in 1753, 
by Salabut Jung, the reigning soubahdar of the Deccan, and acquired to the 
British by Lord Clive in 1765. In 1817, the total gross collection of the public 


revenue was as follows : 

Land revenue 568,462 star pagodas. 

Salt 67,023 

Land custom 21,946 

Exclusive sale of spiiits (Abkarry) 1 1,361 
Sundry small branches of revenue 655 

Stamps 5,099 

Tobacco monopoly „ 


Total 674,550 

In 1812 it was discovered, that the general police of the district would be 
greatly benefited by a road through the jungle, from the town of Rajamundry 
to that of Rajanagrum, distant 12 miles, the adjacent country having been thrown 
into a state of alarm by the depredations of a noted freebooter, named Pundoo 
Dorah, and the murdqr of Lieutenant Douglas. In 1813, the magistrate recoin- 



80 THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. [god avert river* 

mended that the jungle should be extirpated by encouragement to bring the 
land under cultivation ; but the proprietor, on being applied to, stated that this 
improvement had formerly been attempted, but that generally the ground over 
which the jungle extended was so very stony and barren, that it would produce 
nothing but thorns. The proprietor, however, undertook, for an advance of 
500 pagodas, to construct the road himself, which was accordingly acquiesced 
in, and the undertaking ordered to be immediately* commenced. In 1807, a 
police corps of 1000 men was maintained by government for the protection of 
this district at an expense of 25,948 pagodas per annum.— (J. Grant , Hodgson, 
Roxburgh , Orme, <$>c. §c.) 

Rajamundry. — The capital of the preceding district, situated on the east 
side of the Godavery, about 50 miles from its mouth, lat. 16° 59' N. long. 
81° 53' E. Near Rajamundry the Godavery is about a mile in breadth, and in 
June and July, when the river is full, makes a grand appearance. The bed of 
the river is here very deep, and very little raised above the level of the sea, in 
consequence of which, during a remarkable rising of the sea at Coringa, about 
35 years ago, ships were found drifted as high as this place. Not far from the 
town, the Godavery separates into several branches, forming various fertile 
deltas and large islands. The banks on both sides are from 20 to 30 feet high, 
and consist chiefly of hardened clay marie, great portions of which are carried 
away and deposited elsewhere, causing much contention among the land owners. 
In the middle of the town, and near the river, there formerly stood a large fort, 
with mud walls of little strength. 

The Rajas of Rajamundry are mentioned by Ferishta as independent princes 
when the Deccan was invaded by Allah ud Deen, A. D. 1295 ; and it was sub- 
jected by the Bhamenee sovereigns of the Deccan, A. D. 1471. Travelling dis- 
tance from Hyderabad 237 miles ; from Madras 365 ; and from Calcutta 665 
miles. — (Orme, Heyne, Rennell , fyc.J 

Godavery River ( Gadavari , also named the Gunga Godavery ). — Innumerable 
rivulets issuing from the Western Ghaut mountains and Chandpoor hills, about 
the 20th degree of north latitude, and 70° of east longitude, join their streams 
near to Koombhauree, and their union forms the main channel of the Godavery 
river. From amongst these currents the Hindoos have selected one, to which, 
without any apparent reason for the preference, they assign the honour of being 
the source of the Godavery, one of their most sacred streams, and the largest 
river of the Deccan. At Trimbuck Nasser, 53 miles distant from the western 
Indian Ocean, where this brook issues, temples are erected, which are resorted 
to by the pious of the Hindoo persuasion from all parts of India. 

After traversing the large province of Aurungabad, and the Telingana country 



eoiurMA.] THE NOTHERN CIRCARS. 81 

from west to east, it toms to the south east, and receives the Baingunga about 
90 miles from the sea, besides many lesser streams in its previous course. Near 
Rajamundry it separates into two principal branches, and these, subdividing 
again, form altogether several tide harbours for vessels of moderate burthens ; 
such as Ingeram, Coringa, Yanam, Bundtrmalanca, and Narsipoor, all situated 
at different mouths of this river. Its whole course, including the windings, 
may be estimated at 850 miles in length, having nearly travelled across from 
sea to sea. At Collysair ghaut, in the province of Gundwana, lat. 18° 38' N, 
long. 80° 35' E. the bed of the Godavery is about a mile in breadth ; and in the 
beginning of May consists of a wide expanse of sand, the river being separated 
into many little shallow streams, nowhere more than 15 inches in depth. In 
the rainy season the bed is filled, and the river rolls along a prodigious volume 
of water. 

Yernagoodum. — A town in the Northern Circars, 15 miles west from Raja- 
mundry. Lat. 16° 58* N. long. 81° 39' E. 

The forests on the banks of the Godavery abound with timber fit for the pur- 
poses of ship building, being of a superior size and quality. In March, 1814, 
the firm of William Palmer and Co. from their own observation, and from facts 
detailed by the inhabitants of the Ramgur and Paloonshah pergunnahs, were of 
opinion, that a navigation 400 miles in length might be opened during four 
months of the year on this river and the Wurda, which would greatly facilitate 
the commercial intercourse between the inland provinces of the Deccan and die 
bay of Bengal. — ( Rennell , J. Grant , Blunt , H. Russell, §c. §c.) 

Peddapoor ( Padmapura). — A town in the Rajamundry district, 17 mSes 
north from Coringa. Lat. 17° 6' N. long. 82° 15' E. Sugar cane to a consider- 
able extent is cultivated in the Peddapoor zemindary, along the banks of the 
Eliseram river. A battle was fought here in 1758, between the French army 
commanded by M. de Confians, and the English commanded by Colonel Forde, 
in which the former were totally defeated. — ( Roxburgh , Oj'me, 8$c.) 

Coringa ( Caranga ). — A considerable sea-port town in the district of Raja- 
mundry, 30 miles S. E. from the town of Rajamundry. Lat. 16° 40' N. long* 
82° 44' E. Coringa bay is the only smooth water on the Coromandel coast, in 
the south-west monsoon ; Point Godavery, projecting out to the southward, 
breaks the swell. In consequence of this favourable circumstance, a wet dock 
has been formed here, which is the only construction of the kind on the conti- 
nent between Calcutta and Bombay. A bar of mud lies across the entrance, 
through which ships must be forced. A considerable number of country vessels 
of mall burthen, are annually built at this port. A remarkable rise of As 

VOX. XI. x 



82 THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. [kokpab. 

ocean and inundation took place here about 36 yean ago, winch destroyed * 
great number of the inhabitants and much property. 

The register of imports at this place exhibits a trade with Calcutta, and a few 
place? to the eastward, in rice, cummin seed, paper, and copper from the former, 
and small supplies of pepper and timber from the latter. The exports from 
Coringa to Calcutta, and partially to Pegu, consist of piece goods and teak 
wood to the first, and piece goods to the last. From the 1st of May, 1811, to 
the 30th of April, 1812, the total value of imports of every description was 
170,960 Arcot rupees ; and of exports 822,348 Arcot rupees. In the course of 
the aboye period, 131 vessels and craft, measuring 12,876 tons, arrived; and, 
235, measuring 26,714 tons, departed . — (Parliamentary Reports, Johnson, 85 c.) , 

Injeram.— A town in the Northern Circars, six miles south from Coringa. 
Lat. 16° 45' N. long. 82° 18' E. 

Ammalapoor.— A town in the Northern Circars, situated on a branch of the 
Godavery river, near its junction with the bay of Bengal, 53 miles N. E. from 
Masulipatam. Lat. 16° 25' N. long. 81° 58' E. About 12 miles east from Amma- 
lapoor, is a village named Sura-Yana-Yanam, and close to it a lake, at the bottom 
of which sulphur is found deposited. This lake is narrow, but extends several 
miles in length, from north to south, and is everywhere very shallow. At its 
southern extremity it communicates with a branch of the Godavery, and it is 
also connected with a salt water creek, from whence its water is received during 
the rainy monsoon. In the warm season it is nearly dry, when the mud exhales 
a disagreeable smell. Near the lake the country is quite fiat, without any hill 
nearer than 50 miles, and stones are nearly as rare. The soil over this portion 
of the Northern Circars is either a rich red clay mixed with vegetable mould, , or 
it is black cotton ground, under which is always found a bed of marie. Earth- 
quakes in this vicinity are entirely unknown, and volcanic productions equally 
rare. In the neighbourhood, fine cloth in considerable quantities is manufac- 
tured. — ( Heyne, 8 $c.) 

Gulgundah. — A town in the Northern Circars, 75 miles W.by S. from Vi- 
zagapatam. Lat. 17° 33' N. long. 82° 18' E. 

Rumpah. — A town in the district of Rajamundry, situated towards the 
western frontier. The country of Rumpah forms a part of the British territory* 
but whether from its mountainous and unhealthy situation, or its unprofitable 
nature, the ancestors of the present Raja have been in possession of Rumpah 
and villages adjacent, without rendering an account to any superior, fbr many 
years. During the life of Pundoo Dorah, the freebooter, it was an asylum for 
every description of vagrants, besides which, the chiefs had always been in the 
habit of levying a duty on goods transported by the Godavery river. Fee these 



Kascuratam.] THE NORTHERN CIRCAR8. 83 

and other crimes they had been expelled ; but in 1815, Ram Booputty, the no- 
minal Talookdar of Rumpah, haring seised and put to death the above-named 
notorious freebooter, the Madias presidency, in reward for this exploit, ordered 
tite estate to be restored to him, on condition that he would maintain such a 
police as would in future prevent its becoming a resort of plunderers, and also 
that he would abstain from levying any transit duties on the Godavery. — ( Public 
MS. Documents, 8$c.) 

Maddapollam. — A town in the Northern Circars, situated in a populous 
country, 33 miles E. N. E. from Masulipatam. Lat. 16° 24' N. long. 81* 45' E. 
In this neighbourhood the manufacture of fine long cloth is carried on to a con- 
siderable extent. 

Bundeh.mai.anc a (Bander Maha Lanca ). — A town in the Northern Circars, 
54 miles E. N. E. from Masulipatam. Lat. 16° 26' N. long. 81° 59' E. 

Narsipoor. — A town in the northern Circars, 34 miles E. by N. from Masu- 
lipatam. Lat. 16° 21' N. long. 81° 61' E. 

Naoaram — A town and fertile tract of country in the Northern Circars, in- 
sulated by two branches of the Godavery. 

THE DISTRICT OF MASULIPATAM. 

The fourth district into which the Northern Circars have been divided for the 
collection of the revenue and administration of justice. To the north it is 
bounded by Rajamundry ; on the south by Guntoor and the sea ; to the east it 
has the bay of Bengal ; and on the west the dominions of his highness the 
Nizam. Its present limits comprehend a great proportion of the ancient Circars 
of Ellore and Condapilly, under which heads respectively further topographical 
particulars will be found. The principal towns are Masulipatam, Ellore, and 
Sicacollum. 

In 1813, this district was much disturbed by predatory inroads of proscribed 
or rebellious zemindars, subjects of the British government, who had taken 
refuge on the frontiers of the Nizam's territories, where they procured reinforce- 
ments of men and arms from the turbulent and disaffected, always a numerous 
doss under a native, or any other government. Application was in consequence 
made to the Nizam for permission to pursue them within his boundaries, which 
being acceded to without much difficulty, a force was dispatched, which suc- 
ceeded in apprehending many of the inferior offenders, several of their leaders 
(among whom were three of their most celebrated chiefs), and also a Brahmin, 
trim accompanied them in their maurading expeditions, in order to keep their 
accounts with accuracy and regularity. From the result of the subsequent 
trials, it appeared that this gang had been dispatched by a petty zemindar in 

m2 



$4 THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. [miDuriTAX. 

t he Cummumait (a Nizam’s district) for the purpose of murdering the widow 
of a zemindar in the Company’s dominions. This refractory zemindar had for- 
merly held lands within the Masulipatam jurisdiction ; ' but having been deprived 
of them for not paying the revenue, turned freebooter, and for several yean in- 
fested the British territories, although a large reward had been offered for his 
apprehension. Other gangs from the same quarter invaded the district, and 
tortured the inhabitants in order to extort the discovery of concealed hoards; 
the whole protected and encouraged by Ashwa Row, the zemindar of Paloonsha. 
The difficulty of protecting so exposed a frontier was then experienced, as the 
employment of regular troops was only a temporary resource, and had only the, 
effect of securing the inhabitants during the time they remained on the spot;' 
besides which, it was quite impracticable to keep regular troops stationed in 
every village along so very extensive a line of frontier. 

In 1807, the total gross collection of the public revenue in the Masulipatam 


district was as follows : Star pagodas. 

Land revenue 276,638 

Salt 24,661 

Land customs 43,664 

Exclusive sale of spirits (Abkarry) 30,314 

Sundry small branches of revenue 4,292 

Stamps .* 6,683 

Tobacco monopoly 


Total . . 386,043 


(J. O. Tod, Hodgson, Public MS. Documents, 65c. $c.) 

Masulipatam ( Mausali-patan ). — The capital of the preceding district, and a 
sea-port town of considerable note. Lat. 16° 10' N. long. 81 s 14' E. The fort 
of Masulipatam is an oblong square figure, 800 yards by 600, situated in the 
midst of a salt morass, close to an inlet or canal, which, opening a communica- 
tion with the sea and the Krishna, enlarges the means of defence, without ex- 
posing the works to an immediate naval attack, as no ship can come within 
reach of cannot shot, nor any approaches be made on the land side, except be- 
tween the north and east points of the compass. The pettah, or town of 
Masulipatam, is situated a mile and a half to the north-west of the fort, on n 
plot of ground rising above the fort; across which the communication between 
this ground and the fort is by a straight causeway, 2000 yards in length. The 
town is very extensive, and its site on the further side is bounded by another 
morass, both of which are miry even in the driest season. Such was the de- 



M asu lip at aii •] THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. 85 

icription of this fortress during the Carnatic wars of the 18th century; but 
since then many alterations have taken place. In 1812, Sir Samuel Auchmuty 
considered it to be the only defensible post, in the Northern Circars, but while 
its works were just sufficiently strong to invite, they were too weak to resist for 
any length of time, the attack of a European enemy. Under all circumstances, 
as they then existed, he was inclined to think that the best plan would be to 
demolish the whole, and take up a new fortified position at Ellore, or some 
strong position in the interior. 

The shore at Masulipatam is still, and it is the only port from Cape Comorin 
on which the sea does not beat with a strong surf, and capable of receiving ves- 
sels of 300 tons burthen. It early became a port of commercial resort, and still 
carries on an extensive foreign commerce ; but notwithstanding the fertility of 
the adjacent country, watered by numerous small rivers and channels from the 
Krishna and Godavery, large quantities of rice are annually imported for the 
use of the inhabitants. Masulipatam has long been famous for chintzes, but 
although much cheaper, they are neither so handsome nor of so good a quality 
in proportion as the European chintzes. The former is an article of very general 
wear all over Persia, and there is a considerable trade carried on between that 
port and the gulf of Persia. The general trade of Masulipatum extends very 
little beyond the ports of Calcutta and Bussora, and with those places it is prin- 
cipally confined to the article of piece goods ; to the last mentioned the export 
of cloth is considerable. From Calcutta are imported rice, raw silk, shawls, 
rum, and sugar; and between this place and the Maldives islands, chintz goods 
and snuff to a small extent have been exchanged for coco nuts. From the 1st of 
May, 1811, to the 30th April, 1812, the total value of imports of every descrip- 
tion amounted to 418,000 rupees ; and of exports to 2,136,298 rupees. Within 
the same period 755 vessels and craft, measuring 31,277 tons, arrived ; and 727 
vessels and craft, measuring 31,048 tons, departed. 

Masulipatam was conquered by the Bhamenee sovereigns of the Deccan so 
early as A.D. 1480. In 1669, the French established a factory here; and in 
1751 received possession of a town and fort, when they modernised the defences, 
and improved it very much. It was taken from them by storm on the night of 
the 7th April, 1759, by the British troops under the command of Colonel Forde, 
the garrison which surrendered amounted to 500 European and 2537 sepoys and 
topasses, being considerably more numerous than the assailants. After this 
the town and adjacent territory were ceded to the British, with whom they have 
remained ever since. Travelling distance from Calcutta 764 miles ; from Delhi 
1084; from Madras 292, and from Hyderabad 203 miles *~~(Orme, J. Grant, 
Parliamentary Reports, Sir Samuel Auchmuty , $c. %c. §c.) 



86 THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. [commtT, 

Dew —A town in the Northern Circus, 28 miles S. W. from Masulipatam. 
Lat. 15° 53' N. long. 80° 57' E. 

Juggeah Pettaii.— Atown in the Masulipatam district, situated close to the 
western border. This place is principally inhabited by opulent traders, the se- 
curity of whose persons and property is of the utmost importance to the neigh* 
bouring districts. Prior to the establishment of the judicial system, a strong 
guard of local militia were stationed here, but they were subsequently with- 
drawn. 

Ellore ( Elura ). — One of the five original Northern Circars, but at present 
mostly comprehended in the modern district and collectorate of Masulipatam. 
The Ellore and Condapilly circars occupy the whole of the space between \the 
Krishna and Godavery rivers ; the district of Masulipatam towards the sea; the 
inland province of Cummumait in the Nizam’s territories towards the west, and 
the jeel, or lake of Colair, which is chiefly formed by the overflowings of the 
above two rivers. Its superficial contents may be estimated at 2700 square 
miles, exclusive of the high mountainous region on the west.— ( J. Grant , 6$c.) 

Ellore. — A town in the Northern Circars, formerly of considerable note; 
but now rather in a state of decay. Lat. 16° 43' N. long. 81° 15' E. Travelling 
distance from Hyderabad 183 miles ; from Madras 310; and from Calcutta 71® 
miles. 

Colair Lake. — The bed of this lake is situated five miles to the south of 
Ellore, and extends 47 miles in length from east to west, and 14 in breadth from 
north to south. From the beginning of the rains in July, until the end of Sep- 
tember, the whole is overspread with water, except 60 or 70 small islets, in 
which the inhabitants remain ; but during the rest of the year the whole is dry 
and passable, and in many places highly cultivated. The lake is chiefly formed 
by the overflowings of the Krishna and Godavery ; and its waters are conducted 
into many channels to irrigate the circumjacent territory. — (Orme, 5th Report, 
J. Grant, 

Malavilly. — A village in the Ellore circar, 16 miles S. V. from the town of 
Ellore. This is one of the seven villages in this district near to which diamonds 
are found ; the names of the others are Partal, Atcoor, Burthenypadoo, Pertalla, 
Wustapilly, and Codavetty Calloo. — (Heyne, 8$c.) 

Condapilly (Canadapalli). — One of the five original Northern Circars; but 
like Ellore, now for the most part comprehended in the Masulipatam elector- 
ship. In 1786, the area of the two was estimated at 3400 miles, exclusive of the 
high mountainous region on the west. By the Mahommedans this territory is 
named Mustaphanagur, which is also its appellation in the revenue books* Be- 
sides the Krishna, which bounds it on the south-west, thfafrmtofyfc watered by 



oiWTOom.] THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. 87 

several smaller streams, and is on the whole, tolerably well cultivated, but much 
inferior to Tanjore, or the more flourishing districts of Bengal. There are dia- 
mond mines in Condapilly, but for many years they have not produced any profit 
either to government or to private individuals.— (J. Grant , 5th Report , Ren~ 
nett, S?c.) 

Condapilly. — The ancient capital of the Condapilly Circar, situated in lat. 
10® 37* N. long. 80° 33' E. 49 miles north-west from Masulipatam. This place 
was formerly a fortified hill in the Indian style, of considerable strength, but the 
urgency no longer existing, the works have been suffered to decay, which has 
been the fate of innumerable native fortresses now comprehended in the British 
dominions. Condapilly was first conquered from the Hindoo princes about the 
year 1471, by the Bhamenee sovereigns of the Deccan, and it came into the 
British possession along with the Northern Circars in 1765. Travelling distance 
from Hyderabad 142 miles ; from Madras 306 ; from Nagpoor 370 ; and from 
Seringapatam 444 miles. — ( J \ Grant , Ferishta, Rennell, <$c.) 

Mavdourghaut. — A town in the Northern Circars, 21 miles N. from Conda- 
pilly. Lat. 16° 54' N. long. 80° 37' E. 

Bezoara (Byora).-A town in the Northern Circars, 41 miles N. W. from 
Masulipatam. Lat. 16° 30' N. long. 80° 43' E. 

THE DISTRICT OF GUNTOOR. 

The fifth district of the Northern Circars, which with the addition of Palnaud, 
from the Carnatic, now forms a collectorate and magisterial jurisdiction under 
the Madras presidency. To the north it is bounded by the Nizam’s territories 
and the district of Masulipatam ; on the south by the districts of Cuddapah and 
Ongole ; to the east it has the Bay of Bengal ; and on the west the dominions of 
the Nizam. In 1786, the original Guntoor Circar comprehended an area of 2500 
square miles, exclusive of the mountainous tract on the west; and its general 
boundaries are the river Krishna to the north, and the Gondegama (which divides 
it from the Carnatic) to the south. The principal towns are Guntoor, Innaconda, 
Camupaud, and Nizampatam. 

The earth of the Guntoor Circar in the neighbourhood of the populous village 
of Mundaram is much impregnated with saltpetre. In this vicinity the soil is 
black and capable of producing any sort of grain if supplied with a sufficiency 
of moisture. Unfortunately, however, the bed of the Krishna lies too deep, and 
after the periodical rains, which terminate in November, it often happens that not 
a drop of rain falls until next July, for which reason rice cannot be cultivated in 
any considerable quantity. During the months of April, May, and June, animals 
and vegetables suffer greatly from the want of moisture, and every thing exhibits 



88 THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. [dwteict of 

the appearance of misery and decay. After the falling of the first rains a very 
different scene is presented. The finest verdure springs up everywhere, and 
the country throughout is reanimated. The natural strength of the soil is such, 
that* in good years the Indian com grows to the height of six and seven feet, 
with ears a span in length. The natives, who feed on this grain principally, are 
stout and healthy, and during the dry months its straw affords the chief nourish- 
ment for the sheep and cattle, which are larger and fatter in Guntoor, than in the 
Masulipatam or Vizagapatam districts ; but they are not stout in proportion. 
Trees here are not plenty, those seen are mostly clumps of tamarind trees, which 
during the hot season afford refreshing shelter to the traveller. Mangoe, coco 
nut, and palmira trees, are scarce, but measures have been taken to encourage 
the propagation of the latter. There are diamond mines in this circar, but it is 
a very long period since they have been productive or profitable. 

In 1765, when Lord Clive acquired the other Northern Circars from the Mo- 
gul, this circar remained in the possession of Bazalet Jung, the Nizam’s brother, 
to be enjoyed by him as a jaghire during his life, after which it was to devolve to 
the Company. In 1779, a treaty was most improperly concluded with Bazalet 
Jung by the Madras government, without the consent of the Nizam, for the 
cession of Guntoor, and in a few months afterwards it was granted by the same 
presidency to Mahommed Ali, the Nabob of th* Carnatic, on a lease of tea 
years ; but the whole transaction was annulled in the following year by the Ben- 
gal government. Bazalet Jung died in 1782 ; but the country was not taken 
possession of by the Company until 1788 ; they continuing to pay a tribute of 
seven lacks of rupees to the Nizam. In 1801, the Bengal revenue and judicial 
systems were carried into effect ; but the Guntoor circar having come later under 
the British dominion than the other four districts, it was assessed with a refer- 
ence to the average collections during the period of 13 years that it had been 
subject to the Company’s authority. In 1803, when the present Nizam, Secunder 
Jah, succeeded his father on the throne of Hyderabad, he offered to relinquish 
the tribute paid by the British government on account of this circar, but the 
offer was refused by the Marquis Wellesley, then Governor-General. 

In March, 1816, Guntoor suffered dreadful ravages from a numerous body of 
Pindaries, which entered the British territories on the western borders of the 
Masulipatam district, and havingjerossed the Krishna at Munaloor and Koonke- 
paud, partially plundered Amrawatty. 

On the 10th March, they plundered 20 villages, 13 persons were killed or de- 
stroyed themselves, 19 were wounded, and 340 were tortured hi different ways 
to extort the confession of concealed treasure. 



oustoor.] THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. * 89 

On the 11th March, they travelled 33 miles, plundered 72 villages ; 29 persons 
were killed, 128 wounded, and 731 tortured. 

12th, marched 38 miles, plundered 54 villages ; 23 persons were killed, 176 
wounded, and 1241 tortured. 

13th, marched 52 miles, plundered 20 villages; 11 persons were killed, 22 
wounded, and 136 tortured. 

14th, marched 26 miles, plundered 49 villages; 19 persons were killed. 36 
wounded, and 234 tortured. 

15th, marched 24 miles, plundered 24 villages ; 36 persons were killed, 10 
wounded, and 107 tortured. 

16th, marched 23 miles, plundered 34 villages; 12 persons were killed, 20 
wo.unded, and 111 tortured. On this day they quitted the Guntoor district, 
and- entered that of Cuddapah ; but for the sake of connexion their whole route 
shall here be given until they left the British territories. 

17th, marched 15 miles, plundered 25 villages; 9 persons were killed, 18 
wounded, and 93 tortured. 

18th, marched 45 miles, plundered 23 villages ; 14 persons were killed, 56 
wounded, and 237 tortured. This day they commenced their retreat, having 
plundered the pettah of Cumbum. 

19th, marched 30 miles, no villages plundered for want of time; 4 persons 
killed, 11 wounded, and 127 tortured. 

20th, marched 37 miles, plundered 7 villages; 9 persons were killed, 8 
wounded, and 234 tortured. 

21st, marched 14 miles, and by 3 o'clock in the afternoon, the whole banditti 
had crossed the Krishna. A detachment of British troops came in sight of them 
just as they reached the opposite side. 

During the whole incursion the excess of their cruelty and lust could only be 
equalled by that of their cowardice, as was evinced by the precipitancy with 
which they plundered, and their flight on the slightest opposition ; but it is im- 
possible adequately to describe the consequences of the alarm they created. 
Twenty-five women, several of whom had infants, drowned themselves. At 
Mavolee ten women with six children, seeing their fathers and brothers mur- 
dered, destroyed themselves by setting fire to vats houses in which they had 
assembled. The Pindary incursion within the British boundaries, lasted eleven 
days, during which time they plundered 339 villages ; killed or caused to 
destroy themselves 182 persons, Wounded 505, and tortured in different ways 
3603. This band of robbers was estimated at 5000 men, composed of all tribes 
from the Turk, Brahmin, and Rajpoot, to the Pariar and Chuckler, of* whom not 
more than 2000 appear to have been mounted or equipped ; the rest had horses 
voju II* - 



90 THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. [oistwot of 

of an inferior description, seldom so high as 12 hands, hot abstinent and hardy. 
The intelligence they obtained was excellent, and collected in various ways, 
especially from itinerant merchants, mendicants, and religious devotees. There 
is no doubt that several native subjects of the British government accompanied 
them ; some indeed were recognized. 

On this melancholy occasion the public injury done was not to be calculated 
in money, the pecuniary loss, though great, bearing no proportion to the moral’ 
and the loss of character sustained by a government apparently unable to pro* 
tect its subjects. The government loss in money was only 816 pagodas ; the 
loss by government and the zemindars by the destruction of crops 9606 pagodas; 
but the loss of private property was very great. Many of the inhabitants before 
and after they had been visited by the Pindaries, left their houses and fled to the 
hills and jungles, and thus gave an opportunity to the Lumbadies and domestic 
thieves to steal with impunity. The total amount of claims under this head was 
365,910 star pagodas ; of which amount 255,965 was admitted by the commis- 
sioners appointed to investigate. The amount of cash claimed was very small, 
and curiously distributed, for while large sums were claimed by a few individuals 
as dug up hoards, the proportion of persons who appear to have possessed ready 
money was much smaller than might have been expected from the known habit 
of the natives. Yet the incursion took place during the months when it is cus- 
tomary for both Hindoos and Mahommedans to celebrate their marriages, for 
which ceremony a small sum of money is absolutely necessary. The loss 
claimed for gold and silver ornaments was very great, and probably correct* 
when it is considered that every native of India has more or less of these -in his 
possession. 

Nothing of this last description escaped the Pindaries, who, although hardly 
one of them knew a third word of Telinga, all knew those for silver and gold. 
To assist their expressions they carried a ring on each finger, to which they 
pointed when pronouncing the emphatic words, and no one ventured to misun- 
derstand them. The sum admitted by the commissioners for losses under tins 
head was 125*368 star pagodas ; and those admitted for losses of clothes 43*068, 
although a much larger sum was claimed. It is probable, however, that only the 
finei sorts were carried away ; much was cut up for torches after being dipped in 
ghee, some converted to horse furniture, and much stolen during the confusion by 
private thieves. The sum admitted for lose of copper and brass pots was 72ft? 
pagodas ; but it is likely that many of these articles only changed masters, being 
carried from one village and dropt at another when richer booty occurred. Not 
many cattle were carried off, very few horses and those of a wretched description, 
and there was no instance of their having killed bullocks for food. Tie claims of 



w*too».} THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. 91 

the poorer inhabitants, and of the cultivating classes in general, appear in almost 
all instances to have been just ; but in Guntoor and the larger towns, many 
claims were fabricated ibr the occasion. The claims of European gentlemen 
amounted to 1689 pagodas. The Madras presidency, however, in 1817, had not 
acceded to the payment of these claims, both on account of their great amount, 
and also because they doubted the expediency or necessity of holding the govern* 
meat responsible for losses which might ensue from the failure of its protection ; 
it being absolutely impossible, with their limited military force, to afford it 
against powerful banu» of predatory horse regularly organized for plunder. 

In 1816, it appears from the returns that there were 2922 Cuttoobuddy peons j 
exclusive of 1300 men employed by the zemindars, scattered over the Gun- 
toor and Palnaud districts ; the collector employed 647 peons, and the police 
corps amounted to 308 men. But it is to the want of fire arms in the hands of 
the inhabitants, that the general success of the Pindary invasion is to be attri- 
buted ; as it was, many of the natives distinguished themselves by their gallant 
resistance. From the repeated instances of good conduct on the part of the in- 
habitants, it seemed quite certain, that arms judiciously distributed would be 
attended with the best consequences. To arm Brahmins or Banyans, or even 
common cultivators, would be preposterous ; but the higher class of Reddies and 
Cummavars may at all times be trusted, and in many villages of the Northern 
Circars, numbers of RacheWars and Velmavars are to be found, proverbial for 
courage and martial spirit. The aggregate of these classes has been estimated 
at 2182 men, and now the desire of revenge which operates on their minds, 
would lead them to seek an opportunity, if it occurred by a return of the Pin- 
daries. It is to be hoped, however, that the strong measures adopted by the 
Marquis of Hastings in 1817 will preclude the necessity of such precautious 
arrangements, and effectually prevent a repetition of the devastation and cruel- 
ties of which the above is so distressing a picture. 

In 1817, the total gross collection of the public revenue in the Guntoor dis- 
trict was as follows : — 

Land revenue ......... 302,406 star pagodas. 


Salt 60,772 

Land customs 26,067 

Exclusive sale of spirits (Abkarry) . . 3,891 

Sundry small brunches of revenue . . 16,845 

Stamps 3,766 

Tobaccomonopoly „ 


Total 412,738 

(Oakes, F. W. Robertson, Hodgson, Renndl, 5th Report, 
n2 



92 THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. [innacokda. 

Guntoor. -The chief town of the Guntoor circar, situated in lat. 16° 17' N. 
long. 80° 32' E. 48 miles west of Masulipatam. This place was attacked on the 
12th Htfarch, 1816, by the Pindaries, who being favoured by a thick fog, entered 
it without opposition, and continued to pillage it for fqur hours. The military 
force then consisted of only 30 invalid sepoys and 20 peons, who were required 
to guard the treasury (containing 113,633 rupees), the jail, and the courts of 
justice, so that the only detachment sent into the town consisted of five sepoys, 
two half caste boys, and two peons, headed by a pensioned soubahdar and the 
cutwall, who performed the service they were sent on fthe bringing away a 
quantity of ammunition) in a most gallant manner. Most of the wealthy im 
habitants of the town assembled at the house of the zemindar Vassereddy,, 
which being a capacious building enclosed with a good wall afforded shelter to' 
a considerable number. They had received some muskets and ammunition from 
the acting magistrate, with which having killed one Pindary and wounded se- 
veral others, the rest did not persevere in their attempt to enter the enclosure, 
but mo^ed off in a north-east direction towards Munglaterry, where they found 
considerable plunder, as, besides its being a place of commercial resort, it con- 
tains a pagoda of some note, where many persons were assembled to celebrate 
the principal feast of the year. During the subsequent investigation, advantage 
was attempted to be taken by the inhabitants of the supposed liberality of go- 
vernment, by the fabrication of false claims, and the Wyduk Brahmins, who 
carry on nearly the whole trade, claimed the most, yet universally profess to 
gain their livelihood by begging, and under the character of mendicants are 
exempted from all direct taxes. — ( Oakes , F. W. Robertson , §c. §c.) 

Condavir ( Canadavir ). — A town in the Northern Circars, 15 mile9 W. by S. 
from Guntoor. Lat. 16° 13' N. long. 80° 18' E. 

Bellumcondah. — A town in the Guntoor district, situated in lat. 16° 31' N. 
long. 80° 3' E. 36 miles N. W. from Guntoor. At this place the country begins 
tp assume a hilly aspect as it recedes from the sea. The soil is black and co- 
vered with stones of different kinds, among which grow Indian corn and cotton ; 
but the tract of country generally may be considered as very unproductive. In 
the adjacent villages saltpetre is manufactured. — ( Hcyne, Syc.) 

Camupaud. — A town in the Guntoor district, 47 miles north from Ongole. 
Lat. 15° 56' N. 79°55'E. 

Innaconpa. — A town in the Guntoor district, 53 miles N. W. from Ongole. 
Lat. 15°55'.N. long. 79° 44' E. About 12 miles to the eastward of this place is 
the hill of Buggleconda, which is considered by many, both natives and Euro- 
peans, to be an extinct volcano, a rare object in Hindostan. There is no record, 
however, or even tradition of any eruption of lava por k there any thing to be 



palnaud.] THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. 93 

seen on the top in the least resembling a crater. Among the natives it is re- 
markable for the frequent earthquakes it experiences. It is about quarter of a 
mile in height from the plain, and is covered with large smooth stones, with a 
few bushes in the narrow chasms.* According to Dr. Heyne the whole moun- 
tain is composed entirely of bay salt, which is hard, black, and sonorous. The 
earthquakes here often take place several times in the course of one month, and 
are sometimes so violent as to move the houses of the adjacent villages, and roll 
down large stones from the hill into the neighbouring plain. The Innaconda hill 
has also the reputation of being an extinct volcano, but like that of Buggleconda 
without any very strong claims to the distinction, as it exhibits no traces of lava, 
nor any substance resembling it, except baysalt. — ( Heyne, §c.) 

Nizampatam. — A town in the Northern Circars, 43 miles S. W. from Masu- 
lipatam. Lat. 15° 54' N. long. 80° 45' E. At this place a considerable coasting 
trade is carried on in the craft navigated by the natives. 

Baupettah. — A town in the Northern Circars, 13 miles W. N. W. from Ni- 
zampatam. Lat. 15° 58' N. long. 80° 30' E. 

Palnaud ( Palanatha J . — This is a section of the old Carnatic, or former domi- 
nions of the Arcot Nabobs, which from its contiguity has been annexed to the 
Guntoor collectorate. A great proportion of the land here is uncultivated, and 
presents to the eye scarcely any thing but a continued jungle of underwood ; and 
the valley through which the Krishna flows is a sterile, stony, jungly desert. 
In the rainy season it is covered with verdure, but during the hot months when 
the foliage is withered, and the land winds prevail, scarcely a vestige is to be 
seen of vegetation. A considerable space of country is covered with stones of 
a calcareous nature and slaty texture, and the hills encircling the country are 
composed of the same materials. The inhabitants were formerly as savage as 
their country, until reduced to order by the strong arm of the British power. 

A portion of the revenue in Palnaud is procured from the duties levied on the 
internal trade, to and from the sea-coast, and collected principally at Timery- 
cotta. Indian corn is the grain principally cultivated, and a brownish sort of 
of cotton is also raised and much esteemed by thePunjum weavers about Samul- 
cotta. Casiasennee also grows abundantly. The jungles of this district are re- 
sorted to by herds from the adjacent countries, the proprietors paying a sum to 
government according to the number of the cattle. Diamonds and other pre- 
cious stones were formerly discovered in this district, especially in the bed of 
Krishna; but there is scarcely any manufacture except that of saltpetre, which 
is procured of a superior quality. This territory is infested by the Chenchoosee 
race of plunderers, and in 1816 had a visit from the Pindarics, who penetrated 
through the Bodratee*pa$s. This defile is long, narrow, and stony, and requires 



94 THE NORTHERN CIRCARS. [koDAPiixr 

six hours even for a small party to pass through it. A few troops stationed here 
might have arrested the whole body of Pindaries, and so convinced were these 
depredators in 1816 of their perilous situation, that they beheaded the Lumba- 
dies (itinerant merchants) whom they had pressed as guides for having brought 
thefn into such apparent danger. Like the other frontier districts, Palnaud ex- 
periences the inconvenience of its vicinity to the Nizam’s territories, from whence, 
notwithstanding the vigorous measures pursued by the Madras presidency, an 
incursion of banditti took place in 1815, when two villages were burned and 
several of the inhabitants wounded, — ( Heyne , Oakes, F. W. Robertson, <§*c. tyc.) 

Macherla. — A town in the Palnaud division, 76 iniles west from Guntoor. 
Lat. 16° 27' N. long. 79° 16' E. 

Timerycotta. — A town in the Palnaud division of the Guntoor district, 
77 miles W. by N. from the town of Guntoor. Lat. 16° 35' N. long. 79° 25' E. 
Six miles to the west of Timerycotta is a cataract formed during the rainy 
season by the river Yedlapadu, which in the opposite season is perfectly dry. 
The water falls from a height of about 60 feet, into a basin 120 feet in breadth, 
ornamented with several Hindoo places of worship. The great elevation from 
which this water is precipitated would, under proper management, greatly 
assist the conducting of it to different quarters for the purposes of irrigation 
This place possesses a small fort only capable of resisting predatory cavalry, and 
usually garrisoned by a small detachment of the Madras military. — ( Heyne, $c.) 

Caeampoondy. — A town in the Palnaud division, 55 miles W. by N. from 
Guntoor. Lat. 16° 24' N. long. 79° 4# E. 

Moutapilly (Muta-pali). — A town situated near the southern extremity of 
the Northern Circars, lat. 15° 28' N. long. 80° 12' E. A considerable coasting 
trade is carried on from hence in the craft navigated by the natives, 

Modapilly (or Gondegam ). — A small town in the Northern Circars, 13 miles 
N. E. from Ongole. Lat. 16° 25' N. long. 80° 6' E. 



THE PROVINCE OF KHANDESH. 

(KHANDESA., 


A province of the Deccan, situated principally between the 20th and 22d 
degrees of north latitude. To the north it is separated from Malwah by the 
course of the Nerbudda ; to the south it has Aurungabad and Berar ; on the 
east are the provinces of Gundwana and Berar ; and on the west Gujer&t. Its 
limits have never been accurately defined, but it may be roughly estimated at 
210 miles in length by 80 the average breadth. Khandesh was one of the small 
soubahs formed during the reign of Acber, from conquests made south of the 
Nerbudda. It then occupied the space between Malwah on the north ; Berar 
on the east ; and Ahmednuggur, aftei wards Aurungabad, on the west and south; 
but being a new acquisition its boundaries have since greatly fluctuated. In the 
northern quarter, the Satpoora range of mountains separates the rallies of the 
Tuptee and Nerbudda. By Abul Fazel, in 1582, it is described as follows : 

“ The soubah of Dandees. This soubah was originally called Khandesh, but 
upon the conquest of the fortress of Aseer, the name was changed to Dandees. 
It is situated in the second climate. In length from Pooxgong, which joins to 
Htndk to Selung, bordering on the territory of Ahmednuggur, it measures 75 
coss ; and the breadth from the Jamood, which confines it towards Berar and 
Pall, joining to Malwah, is 50 coss. It is bounded on the north-west by Malwah; 
Katnth confines it to the south ; on the east lies Berar ; and on the north large 
mountains. The soubah of Khandesh contains 32 mahals ; revenue 12,647,072 
tungehs.” 

The principal modern geographical subdivisions are — 

1. Ga ulna. 3. Meiwar. '5. Palinemaur. 

2. Khandesh Proper 4. Bejagur. 6. Hindia. 

This is one of the original Maharatta provinces, and like Baglana is remark- 
ably strong by nature. Within one day’s march, nearly 20 fortresses, all in 
sight, in different directions, may be counted. Chandore, Unky, Tunky, Saler, 
Roulee, Nassuck, Trimbuck, Galna, Mongy, Tongy, are all places of this de- 
scription. Tim ridge of the western ghauts extends dong tne Tuptee, from 



THE PROVINCE 


96 

whence there are passes down to the lower countries ; the surface of the country 
being generally irregular, although not mountainous, while the valiies are re- 
markably close and hot. The Tuptee which runs through it is of considerable 
size, with deep and steep banks, consisting mostly of firm black earth. Con- 
tiguous to this river the country is curiously intersected with ravines, from 30 to 
40 feet deep, that sometimes wind along for a distance of several miles. As the 
road frequently leads through these chasms, during the march of an army, part 
of it disappears, and shortly after re-appears covered with dust and half 
suffocated. 

A considerable portion of Khandesh was possessed by the Holcar family, 
having been, like the adjacent province of Malwah, divided between the Peshwa\ 
Sindia, and Holcar ; but much of the larger share was possessed by the two latter 
powers. It was formerly a well-peopled and flourishing territory ; but at present, 
owing to the devastations of the Bheels, Pindaries, and Arabs, together with the 
oppression of its Maharatta governors, it is overgrown with jungle, the towns are 
in ruins, the villages destroyed, the soil, though fertile and well watered, uncul- 
tivated, the roads cut up, and the whole country depopulated. The chief rivers 
are the Nerbudda, Tuptee, and their tributary streams; the principal towns 
Boorhanpoor, Aseerghur, Hindia, Nundoorbar, and Gaulna. A very great 
proportion of the inhabitants, probably five-sixths are Hindoos of the Brahminical 
persuasion, and the total population is probably under 2,000,000 persons. 
Abounding in strong holds, occupied by petty and obstinate native chiefs, the 
revenue is collected with great difficulty, and generally requires the intervention 
of a military force to effect its realization. 

Among the hills, and along the courses of the Nerbudda and Tuptee, many. 
Bheel tribes are to be found, whose chiefs command the passes in the hills 
which form the northern frontier of Khandesh and Baglana, where their power is 
considerable. The whole range of hills also to the north of Boorhanpoor is 
subject to these chieftains, who have not only the aboriginal Bheel race at their 
command, but generally a few Arab and Hindostany soldiers, whom they retain 
to assist in enforcing contributions from merchants and travellers. Owing to 
the hilly and inaccessible nature of the country they inhabit, these demi-savages 
can render the forcing of the different passes, an arduous undertaking to the 
largest armies, a fact of which they on no occasion pretend ignorance. These 
hills formed the northern frontier of the Peshwas dominions, and it is through 
them that marauders penetrate and escape, while they are almost impassable to 
detachments of regular troops. The friendship, therefore, of the Bheel chiefs, 
who command so important a barrier, is of more consequence than their apparent 
strength would at first view indicate. 



oaulna.] OF KHANDESH. 

In the beginning of the 15th century, Khandesh was governed by indepen 
dent sovereigns, claiming descent from the Khaliff Omar, and residing at Aseer* 
ghur, their capital ; but towards the close of that century, it was completely 
subdued and annexed to the Mogul empire. In recent times, and more espe- 
cially since the Maharatta power began to totter, the greater part of the Khan- 
desh province had been usurped by Arab colonists, who, in fact, without any 
premeditated scheme, were in a fair way of becoming paramount in Hindustan, 
having already all the petty chiefs, whom they served as mercenaries, more tn 
less under their domination. As a proof of the estimation in which individuals 
of that nation are held by the native powers as soldiers, the rate of pay which 
they received in the Peshwa’s army, in comparison with that given to other 
troops may be stated, viz : 

Arabs, the genuine offspring of Arabia, received per month 1 5 rupees. 

Natives of Hindostan (the same pay as British sepoys) . 8 

Maharattas and natives of the Deccan 6 

The whole of Holcar s dominions in Khandesh having been ceded to the British 
in 1818, and the Arab colonists continuing refractory after every other class had 
submitted, its subjugation was undertaken about the middle of May, 1818. 
Fortunately for the invaders, the Arabs had made a tyrannical use of their 
usurped authority, so that the great mass of the people were eager for their 
expulsion, while the Arabs themselves were not sufficiently numerous to resist 
effectually. Yet they did resist, for the alternative offered them was no less 
than re-transportation to their own country, a measure to which they appear to 
have an extreme (although not altogether singular) repugnance. Force was 
resorted to, and the siege of Mulligaum commenced on the 15th of May, 1818, 
but on account of the inadequacy of the detachment sent against it, and the 
obstinate defence of the Arabs, it did not surrender until the 14th of June. The 
last body of Arabs surrendered themselves in December, 1818, but many of the 
Bheel chiefs, trusting to their mountainous and jungly recesses, continued refrac- 
tory. Into these retreats they were pursued by various British officers, who 
expelled them from den after den ; but it does not appear from the latest ac- 
counts that this harassing and unwholesome warfare is yet terminated . — ( Abut 
Fazel, Tone, Prhisep, The Marquis Wellesley , Fennell , 8$c.) 

Gaulna. — This is a strong hilly subdivision of the Khandesh province until 
recently mostly possessed by the Holcar Maharatta family. The country is 
fertile, and abounds with mountain streams, such as the Poorna, Moossum, and 
Guima ; but its population and cultivation are very inferior to what they are 
capable of being carried to under a better government. Besides Gaulna, the 
principal towns are Chandore, Loneir, Naumpoor, and Wuckaury. 

VOL. xi. o 



98 THE PROVINCE Oiuhigaum. 

Gault* a —A large hill fort in the Maharatta territories, 87 mifes N. W, from 
the city of Aurungabad. Lat. 20° 44' N. long. 74 w 33' E. This fort stands on 
a single hill, which is not very high, but steep and rocky. It is fortified all 
round on the pettah,' or eastern side, where the hill is most slanting, there are 
two walls of good masonry. Tt belonged to Holcar, and was captured in 1804 
by Colonel Murray s detachment. The surrounding country is picturesque and 
beautiful, the hills being finely varied and covered with jungle In 1818, on 
the approach of the army under Sir Thomas Hislop, the commandant and gam- 
son of Gaulna, terrified by the catastrophe at Talnere, evacuated the fort, 
which was occupied by the inhabitants of the pettah ; the whole having been 
ceded to the British government by the Holcar family after the battle of Mi- 
fieidpoop . — ( Sir Thomas Htstop, §c. <§*c. fyc.) 

nnqonfc.— sA town in Khandesh, 20 miles W\ by N. from Chandore. Lat. 
20 c 22' N. long. 74° T E. 

‘Mnr.UGA’ujyr — A town and strong fortress situated on the Moosy, just above 
its continence with the Gima, 75 miles N. W. from Aurungabad. Lat. 20° 31' N. 
long 74° 36' E. The inner fort at this place is a square of 250 feet, with a 
round tower at each corner, and another in the centre of each face, except the 
easiern one in which are the gates with two towers, on a wall advanced 60 feet 
from, the body of the place. The walls are 50 feet high and 16 broad; the 
ditch 24 feet broad and from 12 to 26 deep, which runs all round, 45 feet from 
the. curtain, the inner wall of which is carried 16 feet above the soil, and a 
strong terraced stabling against it forms two tiers of loop holes, through a five 
feet wall, pommanding the ditch and outworks. The outer wall of stone and 
Jim,e is washed Ixv the Moossum on the western side, and stands 40 feet from 
the ditch ; but at other places more than three times that distance. On the east 
where it is of mud, there is a second, much out of repair, and on the north 
where the ditch is passed ; and also at the nihth and last gateway, a double wall 
extends nearly to the western corner, of about 20 feet high and 12 broad, 
covering, the centre, or paga wall, entirely from view. Such a place is proof 
against all 'irregular approacnes, and the rock on which it stands being unfa- 
vourable to mining, the fort, if properly defended* is capable of sustaining a 
very protracted resistance. During the war ofl818, it was besieged by a British 
detachment, when an attempt made in tho m onth of May to carry it by storm 
failed, with the Joss of three officers killed two wounded, and 80 men killed and 
wounded. On the 11th of the ensuing June, the grand magazine of the fort 
blew up, carrying away the works between the two towers of the inner fort to 
the right of the gateway, from their foundations, and the survivors of the gar- 
rison surrendered on the 14th.— (Public Journals, <Scc. frc.) 



dyhul.J OF KHANDESH. 99 

Chandore.-- A fortified town of considerable size and strength m the pro- 
vince of Khandesh, 85 miles W N. W. iron’ Aurungabad. Lat. 20° 19' N. long. 
74° 19' E. The fortress of Chandore commands one of the best passes m the 
range of hills on which it stands into Khandesh. The hill on which it is 
situated, or rather which actually forms the fort, is naturally very strong, 
being quite inaccesible everywhere but at the gateway, where alone it is for- 
tified by art, and there is but one entrance of any kind. Notwithstanding 
this formidable position, it surrendered by capitulation alter a feeble resist- 
ance, on the 12th of October, 1804, to the detachment under Colonel Wal- 
lace; and during the war of 1818, in consequence of the severe example 
made by Sir Thomas Hislop at Talnere, the native commandant on the part of 
Holcar sent to notify his intention of giving up the place without opposition. 
After passing Chandore, marching north towards the Tuptee, the country is veJry 
wild, and occupied by a half-civilized race of Bheels and Patans. After crossing 
the Tuptee, the road to Oojein passes over mountains to Chooly Mheshwur, on 
the Nerbudda. — (Maharatta Papers , 8$c. fyc.) 

Loneir. — A town in Khandesh, miles N. W. from Chandore. Lat. 20° 30' N 
long. 74° 14' E. 

Khandesh Proper. — This large district probably comprehends the whole of 
what originally constituted the province of Khandesh during the reign of the 
Emperor Acber, and it may still be described as the best peopled and Cultivated 
portion, being watered by the Tuptee and its numerous tributary, streams. The 
surface is irregular and strong, and was formerly studded with hill forts, each 
possessed by a petty local chieftain, nearly independent of his ostensible supe- 
rior, and exercising a despotic authority within the limits of his own domains. 
Many of these have been rooted out and their fortresses destroyed, but many 
still remain, ready to return to their old predatory habits of rapine, whenever 
the strong coercion which now represses them is removed. The principal towns 
are Boorhanpoor, the capital, Naundoorbar, Shewara, and Cossomba. 

Soanghur. — A town in Khandesh, 110 miles E. by S. from Surat. Lat. 
21° 4' N. long. 74° 50' E. 

Seerfoor. — A large and populous town in the province of Khandesh, which 
formerly belonged to Holcar. Lat. 21 p 20' N. long, 74° 52' E. 

Durrumcaum. — A town in Khandesh, 77 miles N. from Aurungabad. Lat. 
20° 58' N. long. 75° 22' E. 

Dyhul. — A town in Khandesh, 70 miles E. by S. from Surat. Lat.- 2l° 3' N. 
long. 74° 13' E. This was formerly the capital of the Powar family, one of the 
original branches of the Maharatta confederacy ; but in process of time their 
possessions were wrested from them by more powerful chieftains, and in 1803, 



100 THE PROVINCE Tnaundoorbax. 

the whole were enclosed within the dominions of Dowlet Row Sindia. — ( The 
Duke of Wellington , <§‘c . ) 

Paunkeira. — A town in Khandesh, 64 miles S. E. from Surat. Lat. 20 
55' N. long. 74° 6 E. 

Adilabad.* — A town in Khandesh, 20 miles S. W. from Boorhanpoor. Lat. 
21° 4' N. long. 76° 9' E. Near to this place there is a lake much venerated by 
the Hindoos. 

Boorhanpoor ( Barhanpura). — The ancient capital of the Khandesh pro- 
vince, situated on the north-west bank of the Tuptee. Lat. 21° 19' N. long. 
76° 18' E. This is an extensive city, situated on a fine plain, and surrounded 
by a good wall two miles in circumference ; but while in a flourishing condition 
it extended ten miles, as it proved by the heaps of ruins scattered in every direc- 
tion, and there are still the remains of a large garden named the Laul Baugh, 
which extends two miles. The surrounding country is tolerably well cultivated, 
and the villages in the vicinity are particularly neat. About 15 miles to the 
south is a range of hills which separate Khandesh from Berar. 

Boorhanpoor is the head quarters of a singular sect of Mahommedans, named 
Bohrah, whose Moullah, or high priest, resides here. They distinguish their 
own sect by the name of Ismaeeliah, deriving their origin from one of the fol- 
lowers of the prophet, who flourished in the age immediately succeeding that 
of Mahommed. They form a very large society, spread all over the countries 
of the Deccan, and carry on an extensive commerce in all the provinces 
through which their members are dispersed, appropriating a certain portion of 
their gains to the maintenance of their high priest. In Surat, there are 6000 
families of Bohrahs (or Boras), and in Oojein 1500. A younger brother of th 
Moullah s resides at Oojein, and exercises a temporary and spiritual authorit] 
over the Bohrahs resident there. 

This city, along with the rest of the province, was acquired by the Malia- 
rattas at an early period of their history, and has ever since been in a gradual 
state of decay; During the war with Dowlet Row Sindia in 1803, it was taken 
possession of by Colonel Stevenson’s army without opposition, on the 16th of 
October, but was. restored at the conclusion of the peace in December next. 
Travelling distance firom Oojein, 154 miles; from Nagpoor, 256; from Poona, 
288 ; from Bombay, 340 ; from Agra, 508 ; and from Calcutta by Nagpoor, 978 
miles. — (Hunter, Rennell , Heyne t $c. §c.) 

Jehanabad. — This place is separated from Boorhanpoor by the course of 
the Tuptee river. Lat. 21° 19' N. long. 76° 19' E. 

Naundoorbar. — A town of considerable size in the province of Khan* 
desh, 77 miles E. from the city of Surat. Lat. 21° 22' N* long. 74° IS' E. This 



talnere.] OF KHANDESH. 101 

place was taken possession of in June, 1818 , by a detachment under Major 
Jardine. 

Runallah ( Ranalaya , the place of battle). — A town in Khandesh, 82 miles E. 
from Surat, Lat. 21° 18' N. long. 74° 27 / E. 

Choprah. — A town belonging to Holcar in the province of Khandesh, 58 miles 
west from Boorhanpoor. Lat. 21° 14' N. long. 75° 23' E. 

Talnere (Thalnir). — A fort which commands a ford over theTuptee river, 
situated on the north bank, 83 miles west from Boorhanpoor. Lat. 21° 13' N. 
long. 75° E. By Abul Fazel it is noticed as the capital of Adil Shah, the first 
independent sovereign of Khandesh, A. D. 1406. — After the dissolution of the 
Mogul empire it came early into the possession of the Maharattas, and was one 
of the cessions made by the Holcar family, at the treaty of Mundessor ; but 
when summoned by General Sir Thomas Hislop, in February 1818, on his march 
to the south, the commandant and garrison resisted its occupation. Shortly af- 
ter, however, the commandant becoming alarmed at the effect of the batteries, 
sent to solicit terms, and was desired to open the gates immediately, and sur- 
render himself and garrison unconditionally. A delay still occuring, the guns 
were brought up, and the first gate blown open, and entered by European sol- 
diers : the next gate was found open, and at the third the commandant came out 
by the wicket, accompanied by a number of Banyans whom he had forced into 
the fort from the pettah, and gave himself up to the Adjutant General, Lieutenant 
Colonel Conway. 

The party then advanced through another gate, and found the fifth gate, which 
led to the body of the place, shut, and the Arabs within insisting on terms. Af- 
ter some delay, the wicket was opened from within, and Lieutenant Colonel 
Macgregor, Major Gordon, and Captain Macgregor, entered it with two or 
three officers, and ten or twelve grenadiers of the Royal Scots, when they 
were immediately attacked by the treacherous Arabs, and before adequate aid 
could be given from the wicket, they were fired upon and struck down with 
spears and arrows. Major Gordon and Captain Macgregor here lost their lives, 
and Colonel Macgregor was wounded in various places, as also Lieutenant Mao 
gregor, and Lieutenant Chauval. When this attack commenced at the inner gate, 
the outer one was blown open by Colonel Conway, while the fire from "the bat- 
teries covered the assault. Thirty or forty of the leading grenadiers having in 
the mean time succeeded in getting through the wicket, the garrison took shelter 
in the houses of the fort, where they still opposed an obstinate resistance ; but 
the remainder of the storming party having by this time got into the place, the 
whole of the garrison, amounting to about 300 men, . were put to the sword, and 
immediately after the killedar, or commandant, was hanged on one of the bastions, 



102 THE PROVINCE [ASEKRGH17R. 

according to the official dispatches, as an example and punishment for his rebel- 
lion in the first instance, and the subsequent treachery (with or without his 
knowledge) of the garrison . — ( Sir Thomas Hislop, Prinsep , fyc. 8$c.) 

Aseekghur 0 or Hasser ). — A town and fortress with a district attached in the 
province of Khandesh, 12 miles N. N. E. from Boorhanpoor, Lat. 21° 28' N. long, 
76° 23' E. The principal fort of Aseerghur is situated on the summit of an 
abrupt detached hill, about two miles from the end of one of the great western 
ranges of the Satpoora hills. The intervening country is intersected in every 
direction by water courses and deep ravines, the former containing in general 
sufficient water for a small detachment. Although the fortress is not commanded 
by any point, yet excellent cover for approaches is afforded by the nature of the 
country, and especially by the low hills extending from the N. E. and N. W. 
angles of the mountain. The elevation of the hill is about 750 feet, crested with 
a bluff perpendicular rock, from 80 to 120 feet high, extending round the top, 
except at two small points, one at the north-west angle, near the grand gateway, 
and the other at the western face, near the great mosque, which last is apparently 
the only assailable point. The interior of the fort presents nothing interesting, 
for with the exception of a few straggling huts, the half ruined palace of the 
governor, two mosques, three tanks, and a few fine wells, the hill is apparently 
in a state of nature. Near the gateway is a Persian inscription to inform the 
reader that the place was taken by Aurengzebe after a siege of 17 years. There 
is no hill within shot range of the place, at all approaching it in height, except 
one which is crowned with narrow rocky crags. 

This place was the capital of Khandesh when subdued by the Empeifor Acber. 
Abul Fazel describes it as situated on a mountain and incomparably strong ; but 
although deemed by the natives almost impregnable, it surrendered without 
much resistance to the army under Colonel Stevenson, in 1803, and was restored 
to Sindia next December, when peace was concluded by General Wellesley. 
In 1819, it became necessary to besiege this strong fortress, the Governor Jes- 
wunt Row Lar, who held it nominally on the part of Sindia, having zealously 
espoused the declining cause of the Peshwa, and refused all overtures for ita 
surrender. When all the detachments had joined, the besieging army under Ge- 
neral Doveton and Sir John Malcolm amounted to 20,000 men. On the 18th 
of March, the pettah was stormed ; and on the 19 th the Arabs made a sortie, 
during which Colonel Fraser of the Royals was killed. Soon afterwards a spark 
from one of the guns fell on a magazine containing 300 barrels of gunpowder* 
which blew up and destroyed a whole company of sepoys. On the 30th of 
March the lower fort was stormed, when the governor and Arabs retired to the 
upper fort* where they continued to hold out until the batteries began to play on 



? au vs em aub.] OF KHANDESH. 103 

the 8th of April with such effect, that next morning they surrendered uncon- 
ditionally. — ( Public Journals , Abut Fazel , &;c. fyc. $c.) 

Meiwar. — A large district in the province of Khandesh, situated between the 
Tuptee and Nerbudda rivers ; but respecting which we have very little infor- 
mation. It is hilly and thinly peopled, and contains many of the aboriginal feheel 
tribes. The principal towns are Sultaunpoor, Bejaghur, and Sindwah; the chief 
streams, the Annair and the Tuptee. 

Nagjeery. — A town in Khandesh, 29 miles W. by N. from Boorhanpoor. 
Lat. 21° 26' N. long. 75° 50' E. 

Piploud ( Pippalavati ). — A town in Khandesh, 30 miles N. E. from Boorhan- 
poor. Lat. 21° 37' N. long. 76° 37' E, 

Jawnee. — A town in Khandesh, 40 miles N. N. E. from Boorhanpoor. Lat. 
2l°42 / N. long. 76° 45' E. 

Sultan poor. — A town in Khandesh, 97 miles E. N. E. from Surat. Lat. 21° 
38' N. long. 74° 34' E. 

Sindwah. — A fortress in the Khandesh province, which was ceded by Holcar 
at the treaty of Mundessor, along with an extent from the glacis of 2000 yards 
Lat. 21° 34' N. long. 75° 7' E. 75 miles W. by N. from Boorhanpoor. In Fe- 
bruary, 1818, Sir Thomas Hislop took possession of this place and subsequently 
descended the Sindwah ghaut or pass, without much molestation from the Bheels. 

( Sir Thomas Hislop , fyc.) 

Bej ague. — A town in Khandesh, 64 miles W. N. W. from Boorhanpoor. Lat. 
21° 38' N. long. 75° 20' E. 

Bejaghur ( Vijayagkur). — A small district in the province of Khandesh, ex- 
tending along the south side of the Nerbudda river, and bounded on the west 
by the depopulated district of Rajpeela. It is of a hilly surface, and but thinly 
peopled. The principal towns, or rather villages, are Akrauny and Ramghur ; the 
chief river, the Tuptee. Here also are to be found many aboriginal and thievish 
Bheel tribes. During the reign of Acber this district was comprehended in the 
enormous and ill-defined vice-royalty of Malwah, and by Abul Fazel, in 1582, 
described as follows : “ Circar Beejagur, containing 32 mahals ; measurement 
283,278 begahs; revenue 12,249,121 dams ; seyurghal 3574 dams. It furnishes 
1773 cavalry, and 19,480 infantry.” 

Akrauny. — A town in Khandesh, 75 miles E. from Broach. Lat. 21° 45' N. 
long. 74° 24' E. 

Kargauw ( Caragrama ). — A town in Khandesh, 60 miles N. W. from Boor- 
hanpoor. Lat. 21° 53' N. long, 75° 35' E* 

Paulnemaur. — A district in the province of Khandesh, the modem portion 
of which is situated between the Nerbudda and Tuptee, but when Abul Fazel 



104 THE PROVINCE [husseinabad, 

wrote (who mentions it by the name of Pall) it probably extended a considerable 
way to the north of the Nerbudda. Indeed since his time we have received 
little, or rather no information about it. The principal collections of habita- 
tions' are Multaun and Cundwah. 

Cundwah. — A town in Khandesh, 40 miles N. from Boorhanpoor. Lat. 21* 
53' N. long. 76° 25' E. 

Hindi a ( Hindya J . — The extreme eastern district of the province of Khandesh, 
but which in the time of Acber was attached to that of Malwah. To the north it 
is bounded by the course of the Nerbudda, and on the south by the Calygong(or 
Caligrama) hills, which have been but little explored ; but since the Pindaiy 
wars of 1817-18, having been frequently marched through by British armies, 
and a detachment permanently stationed at Husseinabad within the limits of 
Hindia, we may soon expect more detailed geographical and statistical informa- 
tion respecting the region generally. By Abul Fazel in 1582, it is described 
as follows: — “Circar Hindyeh, containing 23 mahals, measurement 89,573 be- 
gahs; revenue 11,610,959 dams ; seyurghal 157,054 dams. This circar furnishes 
1296 cavalry, and 592 infantry.” At present the chief towns are Hindia, Hus- 
seinabad, and Charwah; the principal rivers are the Nerbudda and Towah, 
which last bounds it to the east. 

Hindia. — The capital of the preceding district, situated on the south side of 
the Nerbudda river, 93 miles S. E. from Oojein. Lat. 22° 28' N. long. 77° 5' E. 
This is a place of little strength, but of some consequence from its commanding 
some of the best passes over the Nerbudda. During the Pindary war, when the 
conduct of Sindia became worse than doubtful, this was one of the forts required 
of him as a pledge for his good behaviour, and it was accordingly taken possession 
of in November, 1817. 

Hurdah ( Haradi ). — A town in Khandesh, 80 miles N. by W. from Ellichpoor. 
Lat. 22° 17' N. long. 77° 12' E. The country around this place is generally open, 
and in some parts well cultivated, but from Hurdah to Charwah the land i» 
covered with jungle and uninhabited. 

Husseinabad. — This town stands on the south side of the Nerbudda river, 
135 miles N. W. from Nagpoor. Lat. 22° 40' N. long. 77° 51' E. The town co- 
vers a great deal of ground, but is meanly built and not populous. The bed of 
the river here is about half a mile broad, and towards the end of October, about 
two fathoms deep in the shallowest parts. The water is remarkably sweet and 
abounds with fish and turtle. The valley through which it runs is but scantily 
cultivated, and that only in the immediate vicinity of the villages, which lie 
scattered at a considerable distance from each other. During part of the month 
#f February, the jungle here appears of the brightest scarlet from the flowers 



chi en poor.] OF KHANDESH 105 

of the butea frondosa, and at the same season of the yearthe bassia latifolia per* 
fumes the air with its powerful fragrance. The flowers of the last mentioned tree 
are collected by the natives, and when dry have the appearance of berries, and 
are as sweet as raisins. The natives obtain from them by distillation a vinous 
spirit which has a smoky flavour. 

Husseinabad has long been noted as an important position, and was visited 
by General Goddard, when marching from Bengal to Gujerat by the route of 
Bilsahand Bopaul, to the Nabob of which place it then belonged, but was sub* 
sequently wrested from him by the Raja of Nagpoor. There is a large old fort 
here nearly in ruins, but which might be again made a place of strength. A mili- 
tary detachment was permanently stationed here as soon as the Pindary expe- 
ditions attracted notice, and as it is reckoned the key to this quarter of the 
Deccan, it will probably hereafter attain a pitch of higher estimation than it has 
hitherto done . — ( Public Journals , Heyne, Twemlow , fyc. fyc,) 

Charwah (Chowa ). — A town in the province of Khandesh, having a small 
fort with fdur bastions ; 67 miles N. E. from Boorhanpoor. Lat. 22° 5' N. long, 
76° 57' E. From hence, five miles beyond the Baum river, there is scarcely any 
signs of inhabitants.— (12th Register , §c.) 

Chienpoor (Chinapur ).— A town in Khandesh, 60 miles N. E. from Boorhan- 
poor. Lat. 21° 52' N. long. 76° 47' E. 


V6k it. 



THE PROVINCE OF BERAR. 


A province of the Deccan, situated between the 19th and 21st degrees of north 
latitude. To the north it is bounded by Khandesh and Malwah ; on the south 
by Aurangabad and Beeder ; to the east it has the extensive province of Gund- 
wana ; and on the west Khandesh and Aurangabad. In 1582, it was described 
by Abul Fazel, in the institutes of Acber, as follows : “ The ancient names 
of this soubah are Durdatutt, Roodavoodyut, and Fitkener. It is situated in 
the second climate. The length from Puttaleh to Beeragurh is 200 coss, and 
the breadth from Bunder to Hindia measures 180 coss. On the east it joins to 
Beeragurh ; on the north is Settafah ; on the south Hindia ; and on the west 
Telingana. It is divided into the following districts ; viz. 1. Kaweel; 2. Poo- 
nar ; 3. Kehrleh ; 4. Nernalah ; 5. Kullem ; 6. Bassum ; 7. Mahore ; 8. Ma- 
neckdurg; 9. Patna; 10. Telinganeh; 11. Ramgur; 12. Bheker; 13. Puf- 
fyaleh.” 

It will be perceived that the province of Berar, as described by Abul Fazel, 
differs materially from the modem acceptation of the name ; the former, in- 
cluding (but improperly) the whole region from Dowletabad to Orissa, the 
eastern portion of which was certainly not subdued by, and probably but very 
indistinctly known to the Emperor Acber, or his officers. Nagpoor has generally 
been considered the capital of Berar, and its sovereign named the Berar Raja ; 
but this is a mistake, as the city of Nagpoor is in the province of Gundwana, 
and the proper capital of Berar, the town of EUichpor The soubah of Berar 
was formed during the reign of Acber, from conquests made south of the Ner- 
budda, but the eastern quarter, as assigned by Abul Fazel, was never thoroughly 
subdued, or even to this day, explored. The principal territorial subdivisions 
of note at present, are 

1. Beytulbarry. 3. Gawelghur. 5. Waussim. 7. Kullum. 

2. Nemallah. 4. Maihker. 6. Mahore. 

The modem province is centrally situated, being nearly at an equal distance 
from the bay of Bengal and the western coast of India. Berar Proper is an 
elevated valley, ascended to by a chain of ghauts, or mountain passes, extend- 
ing ftesa Ajuntee to the Wurda river, which have been recently surveyed by 



THE PROVINCE OP BERAR. 107 

engineer officers of the Madras establishment. The section of this chain, ex- 
tending from Ajuntee to Lucknawaree, a distance of 57 miles, having in recent 
times been the constant routes of ingress and egress of the Pindaries, has in 
consequence been more strictly examined than the rest ; a description, there- 
fore, of this portion will serve to give a tolerable idea of the whole. The general 
features of the entire range are the same, and their aspect nearly so, presenting 
merely a succession of high grounds, with here and there a small peak visible 
above the rest ; the deep breaks and ravines which lead in some places to a 
gentle, and in others to an abrupt descent into the valley of Berar, being only 
perceived when nearly approached. Some of these ghauts are impassable for 
carriages, laden camels, or bullocks ; some for horses, and some are mere hill 
paths. The surface of the hills in this section of the chain is covered with loose 
stones, and with low jungle, and but little cultivation is seen. Neither is there 
aay wood large enough for building, although enough may be found for stockades 
or revetments for an earthen parapet, if wanted to barricade a pass. About 
Botal ghaut are some trees of a larger size. The Badoolah ghaut is the easiest 
ascended, and is the one most frequented by travellers and the natives of the 
country. In 1816, a great proportion of the villages near the hills were found 
uninhabited, the people having deserted them for more tranquil places of abode ; 
and the tract of country along the top of the hills, from Buldaunah to Murr, 
was equally desolate, and the soil apparently unappropriated. A considerable 
proportion of the villages are subject to the Nizam, but some towards the 
north-west belonged to the Peshwa. In the vicinity of Soulut, the range be- 
tween Ajuntee and Lucknawaree attains its greatest elevation, and with the 
exception of a few projecting points, the face in general resembles a perpendi- 
cular wall. Owing to the extent of these hills and their numerous openings 
which permit horse to pass in almost every part, any plan of defence . gainst 
predatory cavalry is impracticable. The troops, if stationed there, would from 
the nature of the ground be much separated, and more would be required than 
if stationed at the top, where their junction might be effected in less time and 
positions selected in sight of each other. On the top of these ghauts are many 
gurries, or posts, fortified after the native manner, which, if requisite, might be 
repaired and strengthened. 

Even before the desolating invasion of the Pindaries, the Nizam s portion of 
Berar, between the Jaulna and the Tuptee, river was thinly inhabited and little 
cultivated, although the soil is naturally rich, as is proved by the abundance of 
fine grass which it spontaneously produces. The soil of this portion is that 
which is distinguished by the name of black cotton soil, anS so generally pre- 
valent throughout the Deccan and India south of the Krishna* The kinds of 

v 2 



108 THE PROVINCE 

grain mostly cultivated in Berar are wheat, Indian corn, Bengal glam, peas, and 
vetches ; besides which flax is cultivated. These are all sown about the end of 
the rains in September and October, and are ripe in January. The Nagpoor 
wheat raised in Berar is reckoned the most productive and nutritive in India* 
This grain attains the height of two or three feet, and requires only three 
months to come to perfection. When distilled it yields an excellent spirit not 
unlike whiskey, but not quite so good. The flax is cultivated for its seed, from 
which an oil is expressed. The second crop, which is Indian com, is sown after 
the violent rains of June and July, and ripens in October, when it. has reached 
the height of eight or ten feet. Along with wheat this grain forms the principal 
subsistence of the inhabitants. The largest rivers are the Tuptee, two streams 
both named the Pooma, one flowing east and the other west, the Wurda, and the 
Pain Gunga; the towns of most note are Ellichpoor, Mulcapoor, Baulapoor, 
Akoat, Akolah, Nemallah, Gawelghur, and Omrawutty. A great proportion of 
the inhabitants are Hindoos, but from various causes the country has never 
attained any great prosperity, or possessed a numerous population ; indeed for 
many years past its decline has been without interruption, and has been rather 
accelerating since its transfer to the Nizam in 1804. Such commerce as exists 
is merely that of the itinerant inland carriers, so numerous all over the Deccan* 
and in one particular instance it is promoted by a singular practice prevalent 
among the lowest tribes of Berar and Gundwana, who not unfrequently vow 
suicide in return for boons solicited from idols, and in their opinion obtained. 
In fulfilment of this promise the successful votary throws himself from a preci- 
pice named Cala Bhairava, situated in the mountains between the Tuptee and 
Nerbudda rivers. The annual fair held near that spot, at the beginning of each 
spring, usually witnesses eight or ten victims of this superstition, and at the 
same time much business is transacted by merchants and others who resort 
there to witness the ceremony. 

Among the states that arose from the ruins of the Bhamenee empire of the Dec- 
can, A. D. 1510, one consisted of the southern portion of Berar, and was named 
the Ummad Shahy dynasty, from its founder Ummad ul Mulk, but it only lasted' 
four generations. The last prince, Boorahan Ummad Shah, was only nominal 
sovereign, the power having been usurped by his minister Tufihl Khan. He was 
reduced by Mortiza Nizam Shah, who added Berar to the other dominions of 
Ahmeduuggur in 1574, and along with the latter sovereignty Berar fell under the 
Mogul sway towards the end of the 17th century. When that great empire lost 
the strength of its grasp, the province was overrun by rapacious hordes of 
Maharattas, and was for some time nearly equally divided between the Peshwa 
and the Raja of Nagpoor. The latter having in an evil hour put himself forward 



OF BERAR. 109 

as die ally of Dowlet Row Sindia, his share was, in 1804, transferred to the 
Nizam, with whom near the whole of the modem province of Berar remains, 
and under whom it has suffered much misgovemment. 

The whole of the Nizam’s possessions, north of the Godavery, had for many 
years been infested by bands of freebooters, known by the names of Naicks and 
Bheels, who deprived the cultivators of their harvest, compelled merchants and 
travellers to hire large escorts, and by their cruelties and depredations kept the 
Berar province in a state of incessant commotion. The ranges of hills intersecting 
Berar had long been possessed by robbers, who either subsisted by direct 
plunder, or by levying contributions on the inhabitants and travellers, an exemp- 
tion from rapine being purchased by stipulated payments in money. The culti- 
vators secured their crops by giving a share to the freebooters, and travellers 
consented to a tax for permission to prosecute their journey in safety. In the 
course of time these duties became established and defined, and entitled the in- 
habitants to protection from all extraneous depredation. The Nizam’s govern- 
ment knowing from experience the difficulty of extirpating these marauders, 
whose dens were situated in the fastnesses of the mountains inaccessible to the 
operations of regular troops, considered it good policy to acquiesce in a settle- 
ment, which it had not power to prevent, and which to a certain degree protected 
the traders and cultivators. The ministers at Hyderabad in consequence not 
only sanctioned the engagements, but provided for the regular payment of the 
compulsory duties, gave lands to the Naicks, and occasionly employed them in 
the service of the state. 

Owing however, to the famines of 1807 and 1808, many villages in Berar 
were deserted, and the Naicks and Bheels lost the contributions they had so 
long been accustomed to exact. To make up the deficiency, they took advan- 
tage of the distracted state of the country, and extended their ravages, in which 
proceedings they were joined by many needy adventurers from all parts of the 
province, and by some troops from the disbanded armies of Sindia, Holcar, and 
the Nagpoor Raja. Their parties gradually became more formidable, and as the 
difficulty of subsistence increased with their numbers, their predatory excursions 
became more extended, more frequent, and more destructive. Different bands 
occasionally quarrelled about the distribution of the booty when acquired, and 
many sa n guinar y engagements took place during the adjustment of their re- 
spective pretensions ; but the result *to the province was, that large tracts of 
land were abandoned to the wild beasts, and a great proportion of the villages 
became deserted. The cultivators flocked eagerly to the walled towns ; and 
even in their immediate vicinity, the crops were not secure from the attacks of 
the Bheels, large bodies of whom mured unrestrained throughout the country 



PROVINCE OF 


110 

Raja Mohiput Ram, the Nizam's viceroy in Berar, either from indolence, despair 
of success, or with the view of employing them for his own exigences, not only 
took no measures to suppress them, but was suspected of affording them secret 
encouragement, and of sharing in their plunder. Raja Govind Buksh, another of 
the Nizam’s officers, often endeavoured to check their rapine, but the Bheels 
managed always to evade such bodies of troops as they could not resist. The 
service against hem was of so fatiguing and dangerous a description, that the 
Nizam’s officers either shunned it, or undertook the task with apathy and reluct- 
ance. Cavalry could not act in the strong and rugged country to which the 
Bheels retreat, and even infantry cannot penetrate to their more secluded haunts. 

These difficulties, however, might have been overcome, had not a still greater 
remained, which was the encouragement given to this banditti by many officers 
in the Nizam’s service, and more especially by the Nabob Soobhan Khan. This 
dignitary the Nizam’s court, not only concerted the plundering expeditions of 
the Naicks, and supplied them with provisions and ammunition, but actually em- 
ployed some of the government troops to assist them, receiving the plunder into 
the forts he commanded as an officer of the government, and retaining a certain 
share for his own benefit, estimated in common years at five lacks of rupees. The 
Nizam’s prime minister, Meer Allum, had often expressed his anxiety to liberate 
Berar from these oppressions, which had so absorbed the revenue, that scarcely 
enough was left to pay the few troops stationed there. All efforts were found 
ineffectual so long as Soubhan Khan was permitted to retain his jaghires in the 
province, his conduct being so insolent and contumacious, as well as secretly 
favourable to the disorders he was employed to suppress. 

In addition to these evils, this miserable province suffered infinite distress from 
the Nizam’s own troops, especially the cavalry, although ostensibly maintained 
for its protection at an enormous expense. These cavalry corps were of two 
descriptions : — 1st. Such as were paid directly by the local government of Berar 
from the revenues of the province. 2dly. Those supported by different chief- 
tains in consideration of the military jaghires conferred on them. The first de- 
scription, and by far the most numerous, was composed, like all the irregular 
horse of India, of small independent squads, raised and commanded by different 
sirdars. On any emergency, these squads were united into one large body, 
when the command was generally bestowed either on some favourite, or on some 
individual able to conciliate by bribery the good will of those in power. Al- 
though this faulty organization was sufficient of itself to render such corps un- 
serviceable, a still greater cause of their insufficiency arose from the mode of 
payment. Each jemadar of a squad hired his party to the chieftain, for a sum 
vary ing from 45 to 55 rupees per horseman, for which the jemadar engaged to fur- 



OF BERAR. 


Ill 

nish a horse, rider, arms, accoutrements, and ammunition. Every loss or ca- 
sualty was to be borne by himself, so that it was not only his interest to avoid 
danger, but also to maintain his party at the smallest practicable expense. To 
counteract this tendency, a muster-master was appointed by the Nizam, but 
this functionary was not unfrequently prevailed on to connive at the impositions 
on the government, and was nearly as often imposed on himself. Henee many 
of these horses' had no existence but on paper, and many others were never vi- 
sible, but on muster day. The second description of cavalry above alluded to 
Was that of the jaghiredars, organized in the same manner as the first, but, with 
some honourable exceptions, equally inefficient. The muster-roll of the first de- 
scription gave 7150, and of the second 4340 ; but the effective numbers never 
were ascertained, and in addition to these, Salabut Khan, one of the jaghire- 
dars, was bound to maintain 2000 infantry. When Colonel Doveton repaired to 
Berar and took charge, he found that any endeavours to improve these troops, 
constituted as they were, would be unavailing, and that in point of fact they 
were as much dreaded as the Pindaries, by the peaceable inhabitants whom they 
were sent to protect. 

The Nizam’s regular infantry, stationed in Berar, were considered the most 
effective of his forces, and constituted the contingent he was bound to furnish 
in the event of a joint war taking place. Those, however, serving under Raja 
Mohiput Ram, could not be depended on, as they consisted of the sepoys who 
had composed the corps of M. Raymond, and never could be brought to adopt 
the British discipline, but remained dressed in the French costume, practised the 
French exercise, and employed French words of command. The person who 
in reality commanded these troops, and possessed considerable influence over 
them, was a Spaniard named Clementi D’ Avila, steadily attached to Mohiput 
Ram, and, as well as his troops, notoriously hostile to the British cause. Most 
of the other officers were low adventurers, ready to engage in any cause, and the 
half caste men were distinguished from the natives merely by wearing a hat. 

Under these untoward circumstances, Meer Allum, the Nizam’s prime minister, 
in 1807, nominated Raja Govind Buksh (the brother of Raja Chundoo Laul) to 
supersede his enemy, Raja Mohiput Ram in the civil government of Berar, and 
at the same tim e recommended that a proportion of the subsidiary force should 
be permanently stationed in that province. The good effects that had been an- 
ticipated from this measure by the minister, were very soon made manifest by a 
succession of events. Raja Mohiput Ram, on receiving information of his super- 
cession, attempted to collect troops under pretence of having been ordered with 
them to Hyderabad; but the leading jaghiredars and military chieftains disre? 



112 'TIE PROVINCE [ellichpoor, 

garded his orders. Being thus frustrated in his martial projects, he entertained 
the design of escaping with his treasure, but subsequently relinquished it, pro- 
bably^ on account of his family being at the capital, where he endeavoured by 
intrigues to obtain permission to join them, but Suggur was fixed on for the place 
of his future residence. The restless nature of his ambition, however, ere long 
drove him into open rebellion, when his troops amounting to 6000 men were 
attacked by a Nizam’s detachment consisting of 3000 cavalry and 1300 infantry ; 
but, owing to the dastardly conduct of the cavalry, the rebels proved victorious, 
killing and wounding nearly the whole of the infantry. Upon this disater a 
party of the subsidiary force was immediately marched against him, and in a 
very short campaign effectually subdued his troops, and compelled himself to 
surrender. After infinite difficulty from the caprice and perverseness of the 
Nizam’s character, which could only be surmounted by the direct interference of 
the British government, Soubhan Khan, the other disaffected governor, was re- 
moved from Berar to the capital, and Clementi D’Avila, from whom resistance had 
been expected, submitted in the most peaceable manner, merely requesting per- 
mission to proceed to Gk>a .— ( Capt. Sydenham, Lieut . Bayley, Abul Fazel , Renneli , 
Heyne, Ferishta , Colebrooke, Leckie, §c, &;c.) 

Wurda River ( Varada , granting prayers ). — This river has its source among 
the Vindhya-Chil mountains, within a very short distance of those of the Tuptee. 
From hence it flows in a south-east direction, and after a course of about 300 
miles falls into the Godavery river. Since the 25th of December, 1803, its 
channel marks the boundary of the Nizam’s territories from those of the Nagpoor 
Maharattas. 

Payn Gunga.— This river flows through the valley of Berar from west to 
east, and after a course of about 250 miles, including windings, falls into the 
Wurda not far from Chanda. 

Ellichpoor (EUchpur). — This is the proper capital of the Berar province, 
although that distinction has been usually assigned to Nagpoor, which is not 
within its limits. The town of Ellichpoor stands in lat. 21° 14' N. long. IV 36* 
E. and was first acquired by the Mahommedans, under Allah ud Deen, in 1794: 
It has since experienced many vicissitudes, and now belongs to the Nizam, but 
is much decayed from its former condition. It is now a place of no strength, 
being only partly surrounded by a wall four feet thick. The bazars and houses 
near the Nabob’s palace are of brick, and the town is at present the head quar- 
ters of Salabut Khan, one of the Nizam’s principal jaghiredars. Travelling dis- 
tance from Nagpoor 122 miles ; from Oojein 237 ; from Hyderabad 319; from 
Poona 380; from Delhi 604 ; from Madras 671; and from Calcutta 844 miles: 
(Leckie, Renneli, Fitzclarmcc, $x.) 



KERN ALLAH.] OF BERAR. 1 1$ 

. Akoat.— A town in Berar, 29 miles W. S. W. from EUichpoor. Lat. 21° 6' N. 

I long. 77* 9' E, 

t Argaum (Arigrama ). — A small village in the province of Berar, 38 miles 
I W. S. W. from Elliehpoor. Lat. 21° 7' N. long, 77° 3' E. On the plains near 

| this place a battle was fought on the 28th of November, 1803, between the army 

& under General Wellesley and that of the Raja of Nagpoor, in which the latter 
was completely defeated with little loss on the part of the British. The Maha- 
rattas lost 38 pieces of cannon, all their ammunition, elephants, and. baggage, 
and sustained very great slaughter during their flight. After this battle and the 
subsequent capture of Gawelghur, the Nagpoor Raja made peace on the terms 
proposed by General Wellesley. The village now forms part of the Nizam’s 
dominions. 

Ajuntee ( Ajayanti ). — A town situated at the entrance of a celebrated pass of 
the same name through the Berar mountains, 53 miles N. by E. from Auranga- 
bad. Lat, 20° 34' N. long. 75° 56' E. The outer wall is about two miles and a 
half in extent, and would consequently require a considerable force to defend it 
against any serious attack; but in 1816, the town, though large, contained few 
inhabitants. The parapet to the eastward was then much out of repair, but the 
small octagon fort was in good order and fit for a military depot. It stands on 
the jaghire of Mooneer ul Mulk, the Nizam’s prime minister, who maintains 
here for its defence 22 horse and 28 sepoys. The name (Ajayanti) is a Sanscrit 
, word, signifying the difficult or impregnable pass. — ( Lieut . Bay ley, &;c. 8$c.) 

Dawulghaut. — A walled town situated at the entrance of a pass of the same 
name through the Berar chain of mountains proceeding from the south. Lat. 
20° 33' N. long, 76° 20' E. 54 miles south from Boorhanpoor. Rhyon Khan, 

: the Kelladar of Dawulghaut, in 1816, received this jaghire as a recompense for 
his fidelity to the British government under very trying circumstances as testified 
by Sir Arthur Wellesley and Colonel Stevenson. 

& M uxc a poor.-— A town in the province of Berar, 30 miles S. from Boorhan- 
Ipoor.. Lat. 20° 52' N. long, 76° 20' E. In 1816, five Bheel .or Pindary horse- 
men, drove from under the walls of Mulcapoor a large herd of cattle, while 200 
lof the Nifam’s irregular horse were within the walls, some of them quietly 
looking on, ■ 

I* Nernallah ( Narayanalaya ). — A district in the province of Berar, situated 
fi^ove the chain ,of x mountains extending from Ajuntee to the Wurda river. The 
gown of Nernallah, which communicates its name to this tract, has long been# 
felecf of note, as in 1582, it is mentioned by Abul Fazel in the following terms* 
P Nernallah is a, large fort, containing many buildings, situated on the top of a 
p-ountain. Circar Nernallah contains 34 mahals, revenue 130,954,476 dams; 

L ‘ a 



114 THE PROVINCE [gawelghur. 

seyurghal 11,038,422 dams. This circar famishes 50 cavalry, and 3000 in- 
fantry.” The principal river is the Puma, into which numberless little con- 
tributary streams flow from the mountains, but the country generally is indif- 
ferently cultivated. 

Ballapoor. — A town in the Berar province, 58 miles S. W. from EUichpoor. 
Lat. 20° 39' N. long. 78* 56' E . 

Aligaum. — A town in Berar, 68 miles S. W. from Ellichpoor. Lat. 20° 25' N. 
long. 77° 2' E. 

Akolah. — A considerable city, with high and handsome walls, and surrounded 
by extensive rains, 47 miles S. S. W. from Ellichpoor. Lat. 20° 42' ,$J. 
long. 77° 10' E. ’j 

Baroolt Ghaut. — A pass through the hills which bound the Berar province 
on the north, and through which there is an ascent to a table land. The source 
of the Wurda river lies two miles north of this pass. 

Dehinda. — A town in the Berar province, 33 miles S. W. from Ellichpoor. 
Lat. 20* 52' N. long. 77° 17' E. 

Gawelghur ( Gayalghur, or Ghargawil). — A district in the Nizam’s territories, 
situated about the 21st degree of north latitude, and described by Abul Fazel in 
1682, under the name of Kaweel, as follows : — “ Circar Kaweel, containing 46 
mahals; revenue 134,874,048 dams; seyurghal 12,874,048 dams.” The surface 
of the country to the north-east rises into hills of considerable elevation, and is 
naturally very strong and defensible ; the other portion is less hilly, and when 
under tolerable cultivation very productive, owing probably to the multitude of 
small streams by which it is intersected. 

The fortress of Gawelghur standB on a high and rocky hill in the midst of that 
range of mountains which lies between the sources of the Tuptee and Pooma 
rivers. Lat. 21* 22' N. long. 77° 24' E. 15 miles N. W. from Ellichpoor. There 
is one complete inner fort which fronts the north, where the rock is most inacces- 
sible; and this citadel is strengthened and defended by an outer fort, which en- 
tirely covers it to the north and west. The outer fort has a thick wall, which 
covers die approach to. it by the north from the village of Lambada, all of which 
walls are strongly built, and fortified by ramparts and towers. To the whole of 
the fortifications there are three gates ; one to the south, which leads to the inner 
fort ; one to the north, which leads to the outer fort ; and one to the north, 
which communicates with the third wall. The ascent to the first gate is very 
long, steep, and difficult ; that to the second, is by a road used for the common 
communications of the garrison with the country to the southwards, but which 
leads no farther than the gate. It is extremely narrow, the rock being scooped 
out on each ride ; and from its passing round the west side of the fort, is exposed 



assye.] OF BERAR. ^k, 115 

to its fire for a. considerable distance. The road to the northern gate is direct 
from the village of Lambada, and the ground along which it is made is level with 
that of the fort. Such was the reputed strength of its defences, notwithstand- 
ing which it was taken by storm, after a siege of only two days, on the 14th of 
December, 1803, by the armies under the command of General Wellesley and 
Colonel Stevenson. On the 25th of the same month, peace was . concluded with 
the Nagpoor Raja, to whom it was shortly afterwards restored. — (5 the Re- 
gister, 8$c.) 

Carunja. — A town in Berar, 45 miles S. by E. from Ellichpoor. Lat. 20 s 33'N. 
long. 77° 44' E. 

Naxr. — A town in Berar, 59 miles S. S. E. from Ellichpoor. Lat. 20°31'N. 
long. 78° 7' E. 

Amrawutty ( Amaravati, divine). — A large and populous town in the province 
of Berar, 34 miles S. E. from Ellichpoor. Lat. 20 6 54' N. long. 77° 57' E. A con- 
siderable quantity of cotton of a good length and staple is transported from 
hence to Bengal by land-carriage, being a distance of more than 500 miles; 
besides which it carries on a general inland traffic of considerable extent, yet 
in 1808, its wall was barely of a strength sufficient to withstand the incursions 
of the Pindaries. 

Beytulbarry. — A small district in the Berar province, situated to the south 
of die Ajuntee ghaut, between the 20th and 21st degrees of north latitude. The 
principal towns are Sailoor, Paulood, and Ajuntee. 

Jaffierarad ( Jafarabad). — A town in Berar, 25 miles N. from Jalna. Lat. 
20® 13'N. long. 76° 14' E. 

Assye. — A small town in Berar, 28 miles N. from Jaulna? Lat. 20° Iff N. 
long. 76° 40'E. On the 23d September, 1803, a battle was fought near this 
place, between the British army under General Wellesley, consisting of 4500 
men, 2000 of whom were Europeans, and the combined armies of Dowlet Row 
Sindia and the Nagpoor Raja, amounting to 30,000 men. In spite of the dis- 
parity of numbers the British were completely victorious, although with severe 
loss in proportion to their numbers, viz. 

Europeans killed . . 198 Europeans wounded . 442 
Natives 230 Natives ditto . . . 696 

428 1138— Total 1566 

The confederates fled from the field of battle, leaving above 1200 98 

pieces of canon, seven standards, their whole camp equipage, many bullocks", 
and a large quantity of ammunition. This victory is the more remarkable, as 

«2 



116 THE PROVINCE [toon**. 

above 10,000 of Sindia’s infantry had been disciplined, and were in part officered 
x by Frenchmen and other Europeans* 

Maihker.^-A small district in the Berar province, situated above the ghauts 
between the 20th and 21st degrees of north latitude. The town of Maihker 
stands amongst the hills to the north of the Payn Gunja river. Lat. 20* ff N. 
long. 76° 50' E. 47 miles E. N. E. from Jalna. 

Lhonaur. — A town in Berar, 42 miles E. by N. from Jalna. Lat. 20* N. 
long. 76° 45' E. 

Waussim. — A district in the Berar province, situated above the ghauts and 
described by Abul Fazel in 1582, under the name of Bassum, as follows — “Ci|t- 
car Bassum; containing eight mahals; revenue 32,625,250 dams; seyurgh&l 
1,825,250 dams.” The principal river is the Payn Gunga, which flows through 
an extensive valley and afterwards falls into the Wurda river. The town of 
Waussim stands in latitude 20° 10' N. long. 77° 22' E. 83 miles E. N. E. from 
Jalna. 

Nowah. — A native fortress in Berar, which in 1818 was occupied by Nowsajee 
Naik, the chief of a refractory banditti, with which the province then swarmed. 
It was in consequence stormed by a detachment under Major Pitman com- 
manding the Nizam's regular infantry in Berar, and taken after a desperate 
resistance. The garrison amounted to 600 men, mostly Arabs, of whom not 
above 20 remained; unhurt : 439 bodies were buried next day. The British 
casualties were six officers wounded and 32 men killed; ten native officers and 
170 men wounded. — (Public Journals , 8$c.) 

Mahore (Mahvar). — A district in the province of Berar, situated partly 
among the Seshachill hills, and described by Abul Fazel, in 1582, as follows : — ■ 
" Circar Mahoor, containing 20 mahals ; revenue 42,885,444 dams ; seyurghal 
97,844 dams.” The town of Mahore stands among the Seshachill hills to the 
south of the. Payn Gunga river, in latitude 19° 54' N. long. 78* 8' E. 100 
miles $ S. E. from Ellichpoor. 

Pundercoitrah. — A town in the Berar province, 87 miles S. W. from Nag- 
poor. Lat. 20° T N. long. 78° 38' E. 

Woony. — A town in the Berar province, situated a little above the confluence 
of the Wurda with the Payn Gunga. Lat. 20° 10' N. long. 78° 59' E. 

Soonee. — A village in Berar, 12 miles north from Pundercourah. On the 
17th April 1818, the army oi Bajerow, the ex-Peshwa, was met and defeated 
here by Colonel Adams, who had only a single regiment of cavalry with him and ' 
some horse artillery. Five guns (the only remaining ones he had), three elephants, 
and 200 camels were captured. The elephants were those which always pre- 
ceded Bajerow s line of march, and on which his treasure was usually laden ; but 



wajumtoah/J OF BERAB 117 

only 11,000 rupees were found on them, the rest having been made away with 
during the confusion. The Peshwa himself escaped by mounting a horse and 
galloping off as soon as the British troops appeared, but one of his palan- 
quins perforated by a round shot was taken. The British loss was only two 
wounded, the enemy never having stood the charge, while by the effect of a hot 
pursuit, and more especially of the horse-artillery, a great many of the Maha- 
rattas were left dead on the held.— (Prinsep, %c.) 

Kullum (Calam ), — A district in the Nizam’s territories situated between the 
19th and 21st degrees of north latitude, and bounded on the east by the Wurda 
river. By Abul Fazel in 1582, it is described as follows — “ Circar Cullum, con- 
taining 31 mahals, eight of which are dependant on Chanda. Revenue 
32,828,000 dams. The remaining pergunnahs are in the possession of ze- 
mindars.” 

Waerunah.— A town in Berar, 52 miles N. N. E. from Nandere. Lat. 19° 37' 
N. long. 78* 8' E. 



THE PROVINCE OF BEEDER. 


A province of the Deccan situated principally between the 17th and 20thj 
degrees of north latitude, and at present comprehended in the dominions sub-i 
ject to the Nizam. To the north it is bounded by Aurangabad and Berar ; o \ 
the south by the large province of Hyderabad ; to the east it has Hyderabad \ 
and Gundwana, and on the west Aurangabad and Bejapoor. The surface of this 
province is uneven and hilly but not mountainous, and it is intersected by many 
small rivers, which fertilize the soil, and flow into the Beema, Krishna and Go- 
davery. The country in general is very productive, and under the old Hindoo 
government contained a redundant population ; but it is now thinly inhabited 
compared with the British provinces. Although long the seat of a Mahomme- 
dan sovereignty, and still subject to princes of that persuasion, the Hindoos 
exceed the Mahommedans in the proportion of six to one. The junction of the 
three languages Telinga, Maharatta, and Canarese takes place in this province 
somewhere near the capital. The largest rivers are the Godavery and Manjera, 
and the chief towns Beeder, Calberga, Nandere, and Calliany. The principal 
modem subdivisions are : — 

1. Calberga 3. ^.kulcotta, 5. Beeder, 7. Pathree. 

2. Naldroog, 4. Galliany, 6 Nandere, 

After the> Mahommedan Conquest this province was the seat of the Bhamenee 
dynasty of Deccany sovereigns, the first of whpm was Allah ud Deen Houssun 
Kangoh Bhamenee, A. D. 1347, whose capital was Calberga. Besides the prinoes 
of the Nizam Shahy, Adil Shahy and Cuttub Shahy families, founded on the 
ruins of the Bhamenee dynasty, there wera two others composed of portions of 
their once extensive dominions. One was founded by Ameer Bereed, about 1518, 
the prime minister, or rather the confiner of the two last Bhamenee sultans, and 
called from him Bereed Shahy. His dominions Were small, consisting of the 
capital Beeder, and a few districts round that city. Ute honour of royalty did 
not long remain in his family, his territories being wrested from his grandson by 
the other Decanny princes, and the short lived kingdom of Boeder destroyed. 
Along with the other Decanny provinces it fell under the Mogul dominion to- 



#alx>roog.] THE PROVINCE OF BEEDER. 119 

wards the conclusion of the 17th century, during the reign of Aurengzebe, from 
whose successors it was separated in 1717, by Nizam ul Mulk, and has ever 
since been possessed by his posterity, the Nizams of Hyderabad. — (Ferishta 
Scott, Mackenzie , 8$c.) 

Beeder. — The capital of the preceding province, situated in lat. .17° 49' N 
long. 77°46 / E. 73 miles N. W. from Hyderabad. According to descriptions 
given 30 years ago, and we have none more recent, this place is fortified with a 
stone wall, a dry ditch, and many round towers. The wall is six miles in cir- 
cumference, and the town it encloses stands in an open plain, except the east side, 
vhich is on a rising ground about 100 yards high. It is much decayed, but the 
mains of many good buildings are still visible. It was’formerly noted for works 
of tutenague inlaid with silver, and before the Mahommedan invasion was the 
capital of a Hindoo sovereignty. Near the ruins of old Beeder, Ahmed Shah 
Bhamenee founded the city of Ahmedabad, which he made his capital in place 
of Calberga, and this is the modem Beeder. Travelling distance from Hyder- 
abad 78 miles; from Delhi 857 ; from Madras 430 ; and from Calcutta 980 miles. 
(Upton, Scott, Remtett, §c.) 

Pampar. — A town in the Beeder province, 73 miles N. W. from Hyderabad. 
Lat.l7°49'N. long. 77° 54' E. 

Balky (Phalaki), — A town in the province of Beeder, 22 miles N. W. from 
city of that name. Lat. 18° N. long. 77° 19' E Forty years ago this was 
relarge town, but it is now greatly decayed, and answers better to the descrip- 
tion of a large village than of a town. — ( Upton , Register , 8 $ c .) 

Calberga ( Calbarga ), — A town in the province of Beeder. The capital of a 
district of tne same name, and situated 107 miles west from the city of Hyder- 
abad. Lat. 17° 19' N. long. 76° 56' E. This is now a place of little note, but 
was famous in ancient times, having been the capital both of a Hindoo and Ma- 
hommedan sovereignty. Rajas of Calberga are mentioned by Ferishta as inde- 
pendent princes, when the Deccan was invaded by Allah ud Deen in A. D. 
1295 ; and, when the founder of the Bhamenee dynasty erected the standard of 
rebellion in 1347, this was his capital. — ( Ferishta, Scott, &;( 

Abdij lpooh. — A town in the Beeder province, 63 miles ? E. from Bejapoor. 
t. 17*12'N. long. 76° 4 1' E. 

Alland.— A town in the Beeder province, 23 miles N. by W. from Calberga. 
Lat 17° 30 # N. long.76°4rE. 

Naldroog ( Naladurga ). — A district ill the province of Beeder, situated near 
the south-western extremity, and in part subject to the Poona Maharattas. 
The town of Naldroog stands in lat. 17° 44' N. long. 76° 23' E. 80 miles W, from 
file city of Beeder. 



120 THE PROVINCE [tandem. 

Lohara. — A town in the Beeder province, 75 miles W, from the city of 
Beeder. Lat. 17° 56' N. long. 76° 27' E. 

Akulcotta. — A small district in the Beeder povince, bounded on the W* 
by the' Seena river. The town of Akulcotta stands in lat. 17° 30' N. long. 76* 
18' E. 60 miles N. N. E. from the city of Bejapoor. 

Calliany ( Calyani ). — A small district in the province of Beeder, bounded 
on the north by the Tiema river, and on the east by the district of Beeder. The 
town of Calliany, from which it derives its name, stands in lat. 17° 50' N. long. 
77° 5' E. 35 miles west from the city of Beeder. 

Janjowla. — A town in the Beeder province, 54 miles W. from the city of 
Beeder. Lat. 17° 50' N. long. 76° 51' E. \ 

Beeder District. — This is the tract of land formerly attached to the city 
of Beeder, and situated to the west of the Manjera river. The soil is in general \ 
well supplied with moisture, and'' when tolerably managed, very productive. 
The population also is greater than what is usually seen in the territories under 
the Nizam’s government, towns and villages being of frequent occurrence, and 
something of an active traffic being perceptible. Besides the capital, the chief 
towns are Balki, Hoomnabad, and Pampar. 

Hoomnabad. — A town in the Beeder province, 23 miles W. from the city of 
Beeder. Lat. 17° 46' N. long. 77° 14' E. 

Candhar (Gandhara). — A town in the Beeder province, 60 miles N. from 
Beeder town. Lat. 18° 40' N. long. 77° 25' E. 

Oudghir ( Udayaghiri ). — A populous village with a fort and cypress garden 
in the Nizam’s dominions, 40 miles N. N. W. from Beeder. Lat. 18° 18' N. 
long. 77° 16' E. 

Inderhall. — A town in the Beeder province, 36 miles N. W. from the city 
of Beeder. Lat. 18° 10' N. long. 77° 1 1' E. 

Nandere (Nandira). — A large district in the- province of Beeder, situated 
about the 19tb degree of north latitude, and intersected by the Godavery river. 
When the institutes of Acber were compiled, this territory was comprehended 
in the soubah of Berar, then of indefinite extent, under the name of Circar Telin 
ganeh ; but was afterwards raised to the dignity of a separate province, described 
by Abul Fazel as follows : “ Circar Telinganeh, containing 19 mahals ; revenue 
71,904,000 dams; seyurghal 6,600,000.” At present it is wholly subject to the 
Nizam, and from its being traversed by the Godavery, and many of its contri* 
butary streams, is probably fertile, but having been but little explored, or rather 
reported on, we are very imperfectly informed of its condition as. to agriculture 
and population. The town of Nandere stands on the north aide of the Godavery, 
in lat. 19° 3' N, long. 77“ 38' E. 135 miles N. N. W. from the city of Hydera,. 



eathree.] OF BEEDER 121 

bad. The other towns of note are Candhar, Mallegong, and Neermull . — (Aiml 
Fazel, Rennell, $c.) 

Telingana. — In the institutes of Acber this region is named Berar, but was 
only in part possessed by that sovereign. The Telinga language is the Andhra 
of Sanscrit authors, and the word Telinga is at once the name of a nation, of its 
language, and of the country in which it is spoken, where it is also named Tri- 
linga, Teloogoo, and Tenoogoo. The Telinga language, formerly called the 
Kalinga, occupies the space to the eastward of the Maharatta, from near Ganjam 
its northern to within a fevr miles of Pullicat its southern boundary, with the 
intervention of a stripe of territory, where the Gond tongue is used. The above 
space was divided into the Andhra and the Kalinga countries, the former to the 
north and the latter to the south of the Godavery, and the aggregate compre- 
hended the five Northern Circars, a great portion of the Nizam’s dominions, the 
districts of Cuddapah and Bellary, and the northern portion of the Lower Car- 
natic, besides Telinga families scattered over Dravida and the ancient Carnatic 
now named Mysore. In a specimen of the Lord’s prayer, translated into this 
language, the missionaries traced 15 words used in the Bengalese, besides others 
from a Sanscrit source. At the period of the Mahommedan conquest, the greater 
part of these united provinces seems to have been known to that people by the 
genera) designation of Telingana, and Warangol as the capital of the whole. 
By the English and other Europeans, the Telingas were formerly called Gentoos, 
a name unknown to any Indian dialect. — (Wilks, A. D. Campbell, Colebrooke, 
Rennell, <$'c. 

Chinnoo fc. — A town in the Beeder province, 70 miles N. from Warangol 
Lat. 18° 53' N. long. 79° 39' E. 

Neermull. — A town in the Beeder province, 72 miles E. by N. from Nan* 
dere. Lat. 19° 19' N. long. 78° 40' E. On the 15th December, 1815, six 
thousand Pindaries crossed the Godavery near to this place. 

Pxthree. — A district in the province of Beeder, situated to the ndrth of the 
Godavery river, and intersected by many streams which flow from the north into 
that stream. By Abul Fazel in 1582, it is described as follows: “ Circar Pah- 
tery, containing 18 mahals; revenue 80,705,954 dams; seyurghal 11,580,954 
dams.” Remote as is the period when the above details were given, we have 
nothing more recent to offer, the tract remaining nearly a blank in the best maps. 
The town of Pathree stands in lat. 19° 19' N. long. 77° 13' E. 31 miles N. W. 
from Nandere. 


R 


VOL* II. 



THE PROVINCE OF HYDERABAD. 


A large province of the Deccan, which communicates its name to the Nizam’s 
dominions collectively, and situated principally between the 16th and 19th 
degrees of north latitude. In length it may be estimated at 280 miles, by 110 
the average breadth. This territory composed a considerable portion of ancient i 
Telingana, which in the institutes of Acber is called a district of Berar, but 
was, probably, only in part possessed by that emperor. Besides the original 
provinces of Hyderabad, Beeder and Nandere, the Nizam, since his political 
connexion with the British government, has received the accession of various 
fertile and extensive districts in Aurungabad, Bejapoor, and Berar, which have 
carried his frontier north to the Tuptee and Wurda rivers, and south to the 
Toombuddra and Krishna. The aggregate comprehends an area of about 
95,000 square miles ; but the following are the principal territorial subdivisions 
of the Hyderabad province, as distinguished from the other portions of the Ni- 
zam’s dominions : 

1. Paungull. 9. Golconda. 

2 Eidgheer. 10. Coilconda 

3. Ghunpoor. 11. Malkair. 

4. Dawurconda. 12. Maiduck. 

5. Nalgonda. 13. Kowlas. 

6. Cummumait. 14. Elgundel. 

7. Warangol. 15. Mullungur. 

8. Bongheer. 16. Ramgheer. 

The surface of Hyderabad is hilly, but not mountainous, and is an elevated 
table land, the consequence of which is, a greater degree of cold than its lati* 
tude would indicate. A the city of Hyderabad, and In the tracts to the north 
of it, the thermometer, during three months of the year, is often so low as 45°, 
40°, and even 35®, of Fahrenheit. To protect themselves against this degree of 
cold, the lower classes use a coarse woollen blanket, made in the country ; the 
higher classes shawls and quilted silks. A few of the courtiers and chief noble- 
men clothe themselves in English broad cloth, as a fashion or luxury, but the 
mode is not general The Nizam’s own cavalry clothe themselves after their 



PROVINCE OF HYDERABAD. 123 

own taste, but the infantry are regularly dressed in British red cloth, and are 
equipped with accoutrements made either at Madras or Masulipatam. 

Although there are many rivers and streams in this province, none of them 
are navigable, being in general mere channels to drain off the water that falls 
during the rainy season ; after which, having little or no regular supplies from 
springs, they become dry. The territory, notwithstanding, is naturally pro- 
ductive ; but from the nature of the government, it has never attained any great 
prosperity, the cultivators being wretchedly poor and much oppressed by their, 
immediate superiors, the jaghiredars, who are subject to little restraint from 
their nominal sovereign. To the south of Hyderabad city an extensive tract of 
country is depopulated, desolate, and much covered with jungle, among which, 
the traces of ruined towns, villages, and enclosures, indicate the prior existence 
of a numerous and civilized population. When properly cultivated, the fields yield 
abundant crops of wheat of an excellent quality, which is transported by the 
inland carriers to the sea coast, frqm whence salt is brought in return. The 
districts acquired by the Nizam in 1803 are particularly rich and fertile, and 
under prudent management, capable of yielding a revenue of above one million 
sterling per annum. Owing to the defects in the fiscal arrangements of the 
government, the' inhabitants are almost deprived of the benefits of foreign com- 
merce, the average import of European goods into the Nizams extensive do* 
minions prior to 1809, not exceeding £25,000 per annum. 

In 1801, the aggregate amount of the existing customs levied on importations 
was about 15 per cent, and as a principal part of the revenue of the state was 
then derived from this source, the utmost reluctance on the part of the Nizam 
was to be expected to any alteration, apparently tending to its reduction. The 
British government on the other hand, wished to prevail on his highness, to 
abolish the collection of all imposts whatever, on the ingress and egress of com- 
modities, as the most likely mode of ensuring the beneficial advantages which 
would result to both parties from an unrestricted commerce. As this, however, 
could not be attained, a moderate rate of two and a half per cent, was proposed, 
as a subsidiary condition, under the apprehension of the difficulty that would be 
experienced in attempting the entire annihilation of the whole. But the exist- 
ence even of this moderate rate is liable to many abuses and exactions, detri- 
mental to the private adventurer, and injurious to the public revenue; for 
granting that it were conceded, a great difficulty would arise in fixing the value 
of the various articles of merchandize with such precision as to preclude liti- 
gation between the traders and the custom-house officers A general permanent 
duty on the aggregate invoice value, which would be authenticated by the sig- 
natures of the public officers of each government, appears more eligible +hnp by 

a 2 



THE PROVINCE 


124 

having the value fixed by juries of merchants ; an arrangement no less repug- 
nant to the principles and usages of Asiatic states (although customary as to 
landed property), than it would prove productive of litigation and delay. At 
present, the principal trade carried on between the Nizam’s dominions, and those 
under the British government, is the supply of cotton sent from Berar to the 
Northern Circars, and also to the markets at Vellore, Amee, and the vicinity. 
The traders return loaded with salt and salted fish, some cloths manufactured in 
the Northern Circars, and some Amee muslins. In 1808, it was discovered 
that a considerable quantity of opium was exported from the Nizam’s territories 
to the Eastern isles, and there sold at a much cheaper rate than the Company’s 
Bengal drug ; but although this trade interfered materially with the monopoly 
of that narcotic, it did not appear under the conditions of subsisting treaties' 1 
that the Nizam Gould be called on to prohibit his subjects from engaging in the 
traffic. 

A great proportion of the Hyderabad territories is occupied by jaghiredars, 
who are of two descriptions ; viz. the Hindoo Jaghiredars and zemindars, such 
as the Raja of Solapoor, whose ancestors possessed their estates from almost 
the first sovereigns of the Deccan, and over whom the Nizam exercises a very 
uncertain and undefined authority. The other description of jaghiredars con- 
sists of the military officers in the Nizam’s service, in number from 40 to 50. 
Almost the whole country, with the exception of land set apart for religious pur- 
poses, the crown lands, and small parts held by old Hindoo zemindars, is under 
the management of some description of jaghiredars. Since the introduction of 
red cloth among the Nizam’s troops, the principal jaghiredars have adopted the 
same mode of clothing their forces, amounting to 7 or 8000 men. In 1812, 
the British subsidiary force stationed, in this portion of the Deccan, consisted of 
one regiment of native cavalry, one regiment of European and two regiments 
of native infantry, at Hyderabad. At Jalna, two regiments of native cavalry, 
and four battalions of native infantry, and a troop of horse artillery. The officer 
commanding this force receives his instructions from the resident at the court of 
the Nizam, and the consequent reports respecting it are made to the supreme 
government in Bengal. It was originally intended by the British government, 
that the Nizam’s troops should be left to defend his highness’s territories from 
the incursions of all freebooters, without the assistance or co-operation of the 
subsidiary force, except in the event of extreme exigence. They were, however, 
after experience, found wholly unequal to the task, being ill paid, mutinous, and 
little disposed to exertion : being also composed of distinct parties and squads, 
belonging to persons of rank residing at the court of Hyderabad, and com- 



OP HYDERABAD. 125 

manded by their own officers, no combination of movement or unity of action 
could be expected from them. 

In 1811, according to the statement communicated by Raja Chundoo Laul, 
the finance minister, to the British resident at Hyderabad, the revenues and 
charges of the Nizam’s government were as follows : 

The account rendered by the Ray Rayan to the old Nizam in 1788-9, stated 


the receipts to be 12,313,880 rupees. 

The expenses 9,672,405 

Surplus . . . 2,641,475 

In 1803-4, according to the accounts prepared by Raja 

Rajindra, the receipts amounted to 8,866,569 

The disbursements to 14,015,337 

Deficit 5,148,768 


In the following statements of Raja Chundoo Laul’s three year’s administra- 
tion, the great excess in the amount of the receipts above those specified in 
Rajindra’s account, originates chiefly from the additional territory acquired by 
the Nizam under the partition treaty, and partly from a system of extortion 
aggravated after the death of the minister Azim ul Omrah. 


1808 Disbursements 19,099,307 

Receipts 18,558,321 

Deficit 540,986 

1809 Disbursements 19,577,137 

Receipts 18,605,^74 

Deficit 951,163 

1810 Disbursements 20,127,518 

Receipts 18,597,340 

Deficit 1,530,178 


In the time of Azim ui Omrah, the dewan’s fees were only one eighth of each 
rupee, but Meer Allum, on his accession to office, raised them to three sixteenths. 
When Mooner ulMulk was appointed dewan, it was determined that he should 
receive a fixed salary of ten lacks of rupees per annum, the excess of the minis- 
ter’s fees beyond that sum, to be accounted for to government. From a state- 
ment given in on this occasion, it appeared that the minister s fees, or commission 



126 TtfE PROVINCE 

for seven years previous, averaged about 17 lacks of rupees per annum. The 
peshcar s (a head financial officer) fees were estimated at 286,000 rupees per 
annum. 

In the above estimates, the various jaghires held by the Nizam’s officers are 
not included, nor is it practicable to ascertain their real produce with any accu- 
racy; the sum total, however, has upon tolerable grounds been computed to 
average 85 lacks per annum. The offerings transmitted from all parts of the 
country, and presented on the Nizams birth-day, are included in the first stater 
metit of the .receipts ; but those presented on ordinary occasions directly to the 
Nizam, amount to about one lack of rupees per annum, and are always retained 
by his highness in his own custody. The aggregate may be thus computed : 

Average receipts per annum 18,587,212 rupees. 


Minister’s fees 1,71 8,344 

Peshcar’s ditto 286,390 

Amount of jaghires 8,500,000 


Probable amount of presents 100,000 

Average of the estimated revenues of the government per an. 29,191,946 

The Nizam receives from the peshcar about 80,000 rupees per month for the 
current expenses of his personal establishment ; but a large proportion of this, 
and probably the whole of the presents, are deposited in his private treasury. 
Besides these sources of accumulation, there is another appropriation from the 
minister’s fees of ^ibout eight lacks, and the value of jewels and other articles 
annually purchased by the Nizam, averages about five lacks. They are paid by 
the peshcar, and the amount is entered in his accounts under the head of com- 
missions. In 1811, the deficit of the receipts in comparison with the disburse- 
ments continued to increase, and the whole country was in so deplorable a 
condition, that it was utterly unable to support any additional extortions. 

While Telingana existed as an independent Hindoo sovereignty, it compre- 
hended most of the tracts lying between the Krishna and Godavery rivers, the 
capital of which was Warangol. At an early period it was invaded and partly 
conquered by the’ Mahommedans, and afterwards formed part of the great Bha- 
meriee empire of the Deccan. On the dissolution of that state, Telingana be- 
came again the seat of an independent government under the name ofGolcondft, 
the first sovereign being Cooly Cuttub Shah, who established the Cuttub Shahy 
dynasty of Golconda. He began to reign in 1512, and was assassinated in 
1551. 

Jumsheed Cuttub Shah died A. D. 1558. 

Ibrahim Cuttub Shah died A. D. 1581. 



OF HYDERABAD. 


1&7 

Oooly Cttttub Shah died 1586. This prince founded the city of Hyderabad, 
and having no son, was succeeded by his brother Mahommed. The successor to 
the last named prince was Abdallah Cuttub Shah, who became tributary to the 
Mogul Emperor Shah Jehan; and in this dependance the kingdom remained until 
1690, when Golconda was taken by Aurengzebe, and AbouHossein, the reigning 
sovereign made prisoner, and confined for life in the fortress of Dowletabad, 
where he died in 1704. 

On the destruction of the Mogul empire, after the death of Aurengzebe, Nizam 
nl Mulk obtained possession of the Mahommedan conquests in the Deccan about 
the year 1717. He died the 24th March, 1748, aged (it is said) 104 years, 
leaving six sons, viz. Ghazi ud Deen, Nasir Jung, Salabut Jung, Nizam Ali, Bas- 
salet Jung, and Moghul Ali. 

Nassir Jung, being on the spot at Boorhanpoor when his father died, succeeded, 
and was assassinated in 1750. 

Muzuffer Jung (grandson to Nizam ul Mulk) was placed on the throne and as- 
sassinated in 1751. 

Salabut Jung, by the influence of the French, was then proclaimed, and reigned 
Until 1761, when he was imprisoned, and in 1763 put to death by his brother 
jjjifizam Ali, who ascended the blood-stained throne. Nearly the whole of his 
ifceign was a scene of intricate negociation, or impending hostility, with his rapa- 
cious neighbours the Maharattas, and that he was not finally devoured, was en- 
tirely owing to the intimacy of the political connexion he latterly contracted with 
the British government. During a temporary separation of interests in 1795, 
war with the Maharattas actually took place, when the Nizam advanced from 
Beeder to meet Dowlet Row Sindia, who had drawn great part of his army from 
Upper Hindostan. An action was fought which was followed by the retreat of 
the Nizam to Kurdlah, where, allowing himself to be shut up and deprived of 
supplies, he was competed to sign a convention, by the terms of which he ad- 
mitted all the Maharatta claims, agreed to cede to them the fort and district of 
Dowletabad, to pay, three crores of rupees, and to deliver up Azim ul Omra, his 
prime minister, as a hostage, into the hands of Nana Fumavese. 

In 1798, the British interests at the court of Hyderabad, which had been 
tly impaired, or rather nearlv subverted, by the increasing influence of a 
trong French party, were restored by the vigorous measures of the Marquis 

ellesley, immed ate y after his assumption of the supreme^ government. The 
>rce under Mi Raymond consisted of 13,000 men, in fact constituted the only 

icieftt portion of the Nizam’s military strength, and firom the known principles 
f that adventurer and his connexion with France, there was no doubt that if the 
of war ever seemed to waver, he would co-operate with whatever foe was 



128 THE PROVINCE 

opposed to the British. The Nizam's minister, Azim til Omra, had for some time 
viewed with considerable alarm, a growing influence which he was no longer able 
to controul, and in consequence was ready to promote the objects of the British 
government. On the 1st of September, 1798, the Nizam was prevailed on to ac- 
cede to a treaty, according to which, a detachment of 6000 men, with guns and 
artillerymen in proportion, were to be entertained by his highness, and the sub- 
sidy raised from six to twenty-four lacks of rupees. It was also agreed that the 
officers and servants of the French party should be secured and delivered up, not 
as prisoners of war, but to be restored to their own country by the earliest op- 
portunity, without waiting for exchange or cartel. By the further stipulations of 
this treaty, the interests of the two countries were identified, and the friends and 
enemies of the one were declared to stand in the same relation to the other. 
While these negociations were going on, a force was assembled in the Northern 
Circars under Colonel Roberts, who, on receiving intimation from the resident 
Captain Achilles Kirkpatrick, marched to Hyderabad, where the French troops 
were mostly stationed. These he adroitly surrounded, and resistance appearing 
hopeless, the officers were secured, the corps dissolved, and the men disbanded 
without bloodshed, and their place occupied by British troops. 

It being found necessary to augment the subsidiary force stationed in the Ni- 
zam's dominions to 8000 regular infantry, and 1000 regular cavalry, a new treaty 
was concluded on the 12th of October, 1800, when the Nizam was induced with 
the view of ensuring their regular payment to cede to the British government all 
the territories he had acquired by the treaty of Seringapatam in 1792, and also 
under that of Mysore in 1799. Certain of the tracts ceded by this treaty being 
inconvenient, owing to their position north of the Toombuddra, it was determined 
for the purpose of rendering the boundary well defined, that his highness should 
retain Copaul and Gujinderghur and other districts north of the Toombuddra, 
and in lieu thereof assign Adoni, and whatever territory he possessed to the south 
of that river, '‘or to the south of the Krishna below its junction with the Toom- 
buddra, the estimated value of the whole being about 72 lacks of rupees per an- 
num. These arrangements being accomplished, it was determined, that all 
British claims on the Nizam, of every description, should cease ; from which 
date also all demands on account of the subsidiary force were to terminate, as 
the whole was in future to be paid and subsisted at the sole expense of the British 
government. In the event of a war taking place, the Nizam engaged to join his 
allies with 6000 infantry and 9000 horse of his own troops, and by a supplemental 
article it was agreed, that during a joint war, all forts in the Hyderabad domi- 
nions should be open to the British armies. By this treaty it was also decided, 
that all external political relations should be exclusively managed by the British 



OF HYDERABAD. 


129 

government, which undertook to protect his highness’s dominions from external 
annoyance, and internal insurrection, and to procure by treaty a total exemption 
from all claims for choute on the part of the Maharattas. On the 12th of April, 
1802, after much delay, a commercial treaty was negotiated with the Nizam, by 
which he was granted the free use of the port of Masulipatam, with liberty to 
establish a factory, and the British government also undertook to protect his flag 
on the high seas. It was agreed that a free transit should be permitted, and all 
local duties abolished, in lieu of which, five per cent, to be levied on all articles, 
indiscriminately, imported into the respective territories of the contracting par- 
ties ; no article on any account to pay duty more than once. A duty not ex- 
ceeding five per cent, to be levied on the prime cost of ail articles purchased in 
the Hyderabad states for exportation, such articles not to be re-sold there, and 
the commerce of grain to be under distinct regulations. 

On the 6th of August, 1803, Nizam Ali finished his long life and reign, and was 
succeeded on the throne by his eldest legitimate son, Secunder Jah, the present 
reigning Nizam. To the British government he was entirely indebted for the 
tranquillity of his accession, and as a mark of his gratitude, offered to re- 
linquish the tribute of seven lacks of rupees paid on account of the Guntoor 
circar, but the acceptance of this douceur was declined by the Marquis Wel- 
lesley, then Governor General. Soon after the Asophia (Nizam’s) dominions re- 
ceived a very considerable augmentation, for on the 28th of April, 1804, a par- 
tition treaty having been concluded with Dowlet Row Sindia and the Raja of 
.Nagpoor, the latter ceded to the Nizam all the country, of which he collected 
^the revenue in conjunction with the Nizam, and fixed the Nagpoor frontier fo- 
rwards the west, at the Wurda river, from where it issues out of the Injardy hills, 
tto its junction with the Godavery. The hills on which the forts of Nemallah and 
;iGawelghur stand, with a district contiguous to the amount of four lacks of rupees 
.^revenue, to remain with the Nagpoor Raja; but every other tract soqth of the 
y/ Injardy hills and west of the Wurda, to be ceded to the Nizam. From Sindia he 
^received all the territories that chief possessed, prior to 1803, situated to the 
gsouth of the Adjuntee hills, including the fort and fertile district of Jalnapoor, 
fethe town of Gandapoor, and ali the other districts between that range of hills 
land the Godavery. These were, in fact, first ceded by Sindia to the British go- 
prernment, but immediately afterwards they were transferred in perpetuity to the 
Ipizam. In consequence of these arangements the Hyderabad sovereignty ac- 
puired a great increase of territory, and obtained for the first time a compact and 
pell defined boundary. 

| Secunder Jah for a short time expressed the utmost gratitude to the British 
government, both for the tranquillity of his accession and the augmentation of 

; vot. II, s 



THE PROVINCE 


130 

his territories, but it soon appeared that his conduct was regulated by no fixed 
principles, being directed by a few ignorant and vicious creatures who surround- 
ed his person, and were permitted to controul his actions. The principal of these 
'were Assud Yar Jung, Jaffer Yar Jung, his highness s foster brothers, and two 
individuals named Berkindauze Khan and Rozdar Khan. The two persons first 
mentioned were low ignorant men, the two others had been common sepoys (the 
last a private trooper in the British service), and had been noticed by the Nizam 
for their skill in shooting, ever since they had undertaken to exercise it on the late 
prime minister Azim ill Omra. Although these persons were never permitted to 
sit down when the British resident was present, they were on other occasions 
often indulged with seats, and honoured with the familiar conversation ^f his 
highness, while noblemen of rank and character, compelled to attend the court, 
were kept at a distance with an appearance of studied indignity. Like most of 
the factious miscreants with which the city of Hyderabad swarmed, his high- 
ness’s associates evinced a decided hostility to the British government, and of 
course to the prime minister, Meer Allum, who disdained to take the usual me- 
thods for obtaining their good offices, while their enmity was fostered by his 
rival Raja Mohiput Ram, in prosecution of whose schemes they were accus- 
tomed to exercise a species of vulgar wit on the English, to alarm the Nizam’s 
mind with exaggerated representations of their ambition, and to extol the 
prowess of Holcar and Sindia. The Governor General of British India was re- 
presented as a fictitious functionary., acting without the authority of the govern- 
ment of England, and the recent arraignment of the Marquis Wellesley, by Mr. 
Paul, was adduced as a proof of the assertion. As part of their system, they, 
were in the habit of prompting the Nizam to resist every proposition whatever 
from the British government, and of abusing the minister and his adherents as 
British partizans, always concluding with the most fulsome and extravagant com- 
pliments on his highness's sagacity, penetration, and courage. 

This conjuncture of affairs presented externally an appearance of solidity to 
the alliance, while in reality the foundation was utterly decayed, for in the event 
of war, not only would the resources and forces claimable by treaty have been 
withheld, but the British subsidiary force would have been virtually placed in 
the country of an enemy, and consequently exposed to all the hazards of such 
a situation, without the advantage of the occupation of posts, the establishment 
of depots, or security of communication with the British territory. No alter- 
native was therefore left, but either to abandon the alliance altogether, or to make 
an effort to replace it on its proper basis by a direct and decided interference. 
1 he adoption of this measure, however, appeared so fundamental a deviation 
from the system professed by the Marquis Cornwallis, during s second mission 



OF HYDERABAD. 


131 

to India, and also by his successor, Sir George Barlow, that the latter thought it 
necessary to state some reasons in vindication of the measure. On this subject 
he observed, that the adoption of the system of non-interference, pre-supposed 
a just conception on the part of the Nizam of the true principles and solid ad- 
vantages of the alliance, and also a sincere disposition to maintain it. It also 
pre-supposed a degree of firmness, discernment, and dignity on his part, which 
would lead him to reject the counsels of profligate and interested advisers, who 
should endeavour to persuade him that the obligations of the alliance were those 
of degradation, and as such urged him to renounce it. Unsupported by these 
just and reasonable presumptions, Sir George considered the system of non-inter- 
ference, as altogether deprived of its foundation, and that the change on the part 
of the British government would be adopted, not from choice, but from necessity. 
The measure he view ed, not as a renunciation of general political principles, but 
as extorted by the evident impracticability of applying those principles to the 
condition of his highness s government, without the certain loss of the benefits 
expected from an adherence to them ; the mere adoption of a measure of secu- 
rity against a great and impending danger. 

The propriety of interfering with the Nizam’s internal government, being in 
this manner decided, he was in 1807 addressed in such terms by the British go- 
vernment as would convince him, but without specifically mentioning them, that it 
was acquainted with the secret machinations he had been carrying on. He was 
also informed that the British government would not tacitly suffer the benefits of 
the alliance to be hazarded, or ultimately subverted, by the insidious intrigues of 
designing persons, who, in furtherance of their own objects, would induce him to 
believe that his interest and security were separable from those of the British 
government, and who, according to the suggestion of the moment, made every 
proposal from that quarter appear an object of contempt or alarm. 

While these discussions were* going on, it became necessary for Meer Allum, 
the prime minister, to take up his abode at the British residency, assassination 
being then so common in Hyderabad, as to render him apprehensive of being 
carried off by unfair means ; and the Bukshy Begum, the Nizam’s mother, and 
head of the Asophia family, was so much affected by her son’s disgraceful con- 
duct, that she implored the resident to interfere and rescue him from the hands 
of his profligate associates. Affairs having reached this crisis, the Nizam him- 
self became alarmed, and began to manifest contrition for his extravagant 
and unprincely behaviour towards his family, made his apologies to the Begums, 
and requested their advice regarding the course of policy he ought to pursue, 
and it appears they counselled him to adhere strictly to his alliance with the 

s 2 



THE PROVINCE 


132 

British. The resident then being apprized of the Nizam’s repentance, proceeded 
to bring forward the following propositions, viz. — 

1st. The dismissal of Raja Mohiput Ram and Ismael Yar Jung. 

2d. That some provision should be made for Noor ul Omrah. 

3d. That the civil and military authorities of Berar should be separated and 
entrusted to persons in whom the British government could confide. 

4th. That the resident should be admitted to an audience whenever he re- 
quired it. 

These propositions, after undergoing some slight modification, were ratified by 
the Nizam, who expressed his unalterable attachment to the British nation, and 
his resolution to conform to all the stipulations of the alliance. It still, how- 
ever, continued necessary vigilantly to watch, and rigorously to oppose the re- 
currence of these evils, now, in appearance, corrected. On the other hand such 
constant interference as would prove vexatious to the Nizam, or excite in his 
mind a sense of dependance, was cautiously avoided, the legitimate objects of 
the alliance being perfectly compatible with the free exercise of his highness’s 
rights of sovereignty within his own dominions. 

In process of time as Secunder Jah’s mind became less gloomy, he proposed 
a hunting excursion, in the course of which having passed near to the British 
cantonments, he was prevailed on to inspect the lines. He was received with a 
royal salute, after which having looked at the ordnance, he expressed his admira- 
tion of the appearance and discipline of the troops, and paid many compliments 
to Colonel Montresor their commander. This casual visit only derives import- 
ance, because his highness had been led by his private advisers to believe that 
the subsidiary brigade had been secretly augmented, with the view, of getting 
possession of Hyderabad and Golconda, seizing on his person, and of placing 
another prince on the throne. These apprehensions were all dissipated, and on 
his return home, when the females of his family made him the offerings which 
are usual after a safe return from any perilous enterprize, he refused to receive 
them, declaring with indignation that he had been deceived with respect to the 
designs of the British government, to which he would in future entrust the secu- 
rity of his person and protection of his throne. 

This reconciliation was, however, of very short duration, for on the death of 
the prime minister Meer Allum, in December 1808, new difficulties' arose, with 
endless intrigue and discussion, caused by the spirit of perverseness and caprice 
which distinguishes the Nizam’s character. The British government was at lirtt 
disposed to support the pretensions of Shuras ul Omra, a nobleman of excellent 
character; but the Nizam objected to him, that in the .first place he was not a 



OF HYDERABAD. 


133 

Shiah in religion, nor a Seid by birth ; 2dly, that he was allied to Feridoon Jah 
his highness’s brother; and, thirdly, that he was*at the head of the Pagah (a 
sort of body guard) party, an office which had always been maintained by the 
sovereigns of the Deccan as a counterpoise to the power of the minister, and 
that the possessor of that office was consequently ineligible to the ministerial 
office, as he would thereby engross the whole power of the state, civil and mili- 
tary. To the first objection Captain Sydenham, then resident at Hyderabad 
replied, that the selection of a minister should be regulated by political consi- 
derations alone, and could have no relation to the religious tenets of the different 
candidates. The second objection he endeavoured to repel, by referring to the 
altered circumstances of the state, and the absence of all danger from his bro- 
ther’s rivalry while his highness’s throne was sustained by the resources of the 
British empire. To the third objection Captain Sydenham observed, that there 
was no longer any necessity to secure the obedience of the officers of government 
by employing them as checks on each other, as it was now in the powder of the 
Nizam to keep them all in due subordination, besides which, the British alliance, 
fie remarked, had wholly altered the relative condition of the Pagah chieftains. 

' Formerly the chief of the P^gahs was entrusted with the care of his highness’s 
person, was foremost in battle, and led his troops on all services of danger or 
desperation. Now the case was changed, for the British detachment, in fact, 
formed the Pagah party of the Nizam’s army, where that confidence was placed 
which had formerly been reposed in the Pagah corps. 

These reasons, however, not sufficing to satisfy the Nizam, Mooneer ul Mulk, 
the son of Azim ul Omra, was, after much discussion, appointed prime minister, 
and his character as illustrative of a native court and its political instruments de- 
serves notice. Although the descendant of a prime minister, he is not destitute 
of abilities ; but personally he is extremely pusillanimous, a perpetual liar, and 
everlasting intriguer, with polite and plausible manners. He is a true believer 
in the doctrines of astrology, and maintains an establishment of soothsayers in 
his house, by whose predictions not only all his public business is conducted, 
but also the ordinary pursuits of life, down to the auspicious moments for eating 
and drinking* His questions to these sages are generally proposed in writing, 
and so firm is his belief of their prescience* that he always cautions them in pre- 
dicting the event, not to consult his wishes, but to tell him the real truth what- 
ever it may be. His master, the Nizam, is still more irrational, and is known 
to be occasionally afflicted with temporary insanity. This infirmity, in 1811, 
reached to such an excess that he no longer trusted the preparation of his food to 
any person*, abstaining from every dish he had not cooked with his own hands. 
Sitting in sullen melancholy silence in die female apartments, where none but 



134 the province 

his menial servants were admitted, he ceased to appear in public, and wholly 
neglected the affairs of government. Even in better times when his intellects 
are more composed, he continues to evince a strong and restless feeling of dis- 
trust towards the British nation, which, however absurd the notion may appear, 
he considers hostile to his interests, and desirous of aggrandizing their empire 
at his expense; and so powerful is the influence of this delusion over his mind, 
that he twists and exaggerates the most trivial occurrence to suit the bias of his 
temper. His greatest misfortune, and the cause of most of the errors of his 
life, is the aukward uneasiness he feels in the society of the only persons who 
are suitable companions, or whose presence is likely in the slightest degree to 
recal him to a sense of his own dignity, and of the duties he owes his subjects. 

In 1815, the Nizam’s sons, residing at Hyderabad, collected around them all 
the dissolute vagabonds and -Patan bravpes with which the city swarmed, and 
committed the most flagitious excesses. The most profligate of these princes 
were the two youngest, Shums ud Dowlah and Mubariz ud Dowlah, who were 
supported by the Nizam’s wife and mother. In August of that year they pro- 
ceeded to the extremity of seizing an attendant on the British embassy for the 
purpose of extorting money, and were in consequence seized and removed to 
Golconda, but not without considerable bloodshed, and the death of a British 
officer belonging to the resident’s escort. When at last dispatched to the fortress, 
the two ladies resolved to accompany them, in hopes of influencing the Nizam 
to relent ; but on this occasion he evinced unexpected firmness, declaring that 
he believed the Begums wished to get rid of himself instead of the English. The 
principal subordinate instigators of the tumult were subsequently seized and 
executed. 

After an interval of four years, during which he had never passed the gate of 
his palace, on the 8th February, 1818, the Nizam, accompanied by some ladies 
of his family, and attended by Mooneer ul Mulk, Raja Chundoo Laul, and other 
ministers, went to a garden a little way to the southward of the city, and in the 
opposite directions to the residency. The troops assembled to attend him on 
this occasion were estimated at about 8000; but probably did not exceed two- 
thirds of that number. While on this excursion he hunted two or three times, 
but in general he secluded himself with his usual privacy, and on the 25th of the 
same month he returned to his palace in the city. The effort of making the 
excursion, and the time selected, were so much at variance with his accustomed 
habits, that they excited no small surprise, and many extraordinary motives were 
assigned to account for such a display of unseasonable exertion. But although 
the Nizam s aversion to the British controul was sufficiently notorious, and hi# 
wishes for the success of the Peshwa Bajerow equally so, yet if on this occasion 



HYDERABAD CITY.] OF HYDERABAD. 135 

he had been stimulated by his servants to the adoption of active measures, they 
certainly had greatly over-rated both his boldness and perseverance. At present 
the powers of the state are principally centered in Raja Chundoo Laul, while 
the apathy of his master seems daily increasing. But although the efficiency 
given to the military establishment, by the introduction of British officers, has 
no doubt contributed to the maintenance of the public peace, yet it may be as- 
serted that the Hyderabad territories, are as ill governed as any part of India, 
scarcely excepting those of Dow let Row Sindia . — (Public MS . Documents , 
Sydenham , H, Russell, A. Kirkpatrick, Ferishta , Or me, Malcolm , Hcyne , $c. fyc. 8$c.) 

Hyderabad. — The capital of the province, and of the Nizam’s dominions, 
situated in lat. 17° 15' N. long. 78° 35' E. Hyderabad, or Baugnuggur, stands 
on the south side of the Musah river, which runs very rapidly in the rains, but 
in the dry season has scarcely two feet of water. It is surrounded by a stone 
wall, which is no defence against artillery, but which formerly served as a pro- 
tection against the incursions of predatory cavalry. Within the wall the city is 
about four miles in length and three in breadth. The streets are narrow, crooked, 
and badly paved. The houses are mostly of one story, and built of wood or 
other combustible materials. Over the river Musah there is a large arched 
bridge sufficiently broad to allow two carriages to pass. The most remarkable 
buildings are the palace and mosques, of which last there are a considerable 
number, this city having long been the principal Mahommedan station in the 
Deccan. About six miles to the west is the celebrated fortress of Golconda, oc- 
cupying the summit of a conical hill, and by the natives deemed impregnable. 
Secunderabad, where the subsidiary brigade is cantoned, stands about three miles 
north of the city, and is now a large and populous village. The country around 
Hyderabad has a barren rugged aspect, and the ranges of hills have a remark- 
ably irregular and jumbled appearance. Vegetables and grapes grow in this 
vicinity to considerable perfection, which is more owing to the temperature of 
the climate than the goodness of the soil. 

The last of the useful works that were projected by the Nizam’s prime minister 
Meer Allum for the improvement of his country, was a tank about a mile to the 
westward of Hyderabad, which when full covers about 10,000 acres, and mea- 
sures nearly 17 miles in circumference. It is filled by a canal formerly cut by 
him from the river, and is intended to supply the city with water, and also to 
bring under cultivation a large tract of land, which before lay entirely waste. 
This reservoir is formed like the other great tanks in the south of India, by em- 
banking the space between two hills, and filling with water the valley included. 
The bund, or embankment, is built entirely of granite, and consists of 21 hori- 
zontal arches, 19 of which are 150, and the remaining two, 100 feet in the span. 



1 8Q THE PROVINCE [Hyderabad city. 

with 150 feet of straight wall at the end ; making the whole length of the bund, 
or embankment 3350 feet. In the middle it is nearly 50 feet high, and about 20 
feet high at each end, and the foundation at one part is sunk 20 feet under the 
surface. This noble work was not more than half finished when Meer Alluro 
died, after which the work was carried on by his successor in the ministry, 
Mooneer ul Muft and at length after some difficulty, completed at an expense 
of,-eight lacks of rupees. In July, 1812, the canal was turned into itwith much 
pomp and acclamation. 

Hyderabad being one of the few remaining Mogul governments, more of the 
old forms and ceremonies are retained at the Nizam’s court, than at any other jrt 
Hindostan. Some of the higher and wealthier Mahommedans use a few articles 
of European manufacture in their dress, and in the furniture of their houses, 
but this has occurred principally among the ministers of the Nizam. These 
articles consist chiefly of glass ware, china, lustres, chintz coverings for sophas, 
and some articles of plate after the European fashion. The nobles at Hyderabad 
have been either bred up as soldiers or courtiers, and expend their fortunes in 
keeping up as large a retinue of servants and dependants as their wealth will 
allow, or they consume their property in the profligacy and corruption of the 
court where they reside. Within the city the Nizam possesses large magazines, 
in which are deposited the presents received at various times from the different 
native and European powers. The rooms are filled from the floor to near the 
ceiling with bales of woollens, cases of glass, glass ware, china ware, clocks, 
watches^ and other articles of European manufacture. These articles have been 
received as presents by the reigningNizam, his father, and grandfather, some so 
far back as the time of Dupleix and Bussy. They have ever since continued 
locked up in the magazines, where they are likely to remain. 

Hyderabad, formerly Baugnuggur, was founded about the year 1585, by Ma- 
hommed Cooly Cuttub Shah. It was taken and plundered by the Mogul armies 
of Aurengzebe, A. D. 1687, the principal inhabitants having previously retired 
to the neighbouring fortress of Golconda. The late Nizam Ali transferred the 
royal residence from Aurungabad, which had hitherto been the capital, to this 
place; the former, owing to the fluctuation of his territories, being latterly placed 
in a corner of his dominions, and too near the Maharatta frontier. It has never 
since experienced any external molestation, and being the residence of the court 
has progressively increased in wealth and population. Of the latter no very 
accurate estimate has ever been made, but from a combination of circum* 

stances there is reason to suppose it approaches 200,000 inhabitants, including 
the suburbs. ° 

Travelling distance from Calcutta by the Northern Circan 902 miles; by 



ohokpoor.] OF HYDERABAD. 137 

Nagpoo r 1043; from Madras 352.; from Bombay 480; from Delhi 923; from 
Nagpoor 321 ; from Poona 387, and from Seringapatam a06 miles. — (Sydenham, 
H. Russell, Heyne, Upton, Retmell, Sfc. &;c. 8gc.) 

Mussy Rive*. — T his river has its source at the Anantghur Pagoda, 43 miles 
west of Hyderabad, from whence it flows in a south-easterly direction past that 
city, and after a course of 180 miles, including the windings, falls into the 
Krishna near Tangada. 

Manjera Riveb — This river has its source about 50 miles S. E. from the 
city of Ahmednuggur, from whence it flows in a south-easterly direction until it 
arrives within 32 miles of Hyderabad, where, making an uncommonly sharp 
bend it turns due north, until it joins the Godavery, after a winding course of 
400 miles, nowhere navigable. 

Autoor. — A town in the Hyderabad province, 25 miles W. by S. from the 
city of that name. Lat. 17 c 17' N. tong. 78° 10' E. 

Paungul. — A small district in the Hyderabad province, of which it occupies 
the southern extremity, where it is bounded on the east and west by the Krishna. 
The town of Paungul stands in lat. 16° IT N. long. 78° 6' E. 85 miles S. S. W. 
from the city of Hyderabad. 

Rajapulpetta. — A town in the Hyderabad province, 60 miles S. from the 
city of Hyderabad. Lat. 16° 27' N. long. 78° 37' E. 

Eidgheer.— A small district in the Hyderabad province, extending along the 
east bank of the Beema river, which bounds it to the west. The principal towns 
it contains are Eidgheer, Firozegur, and Dowletabad. The town of Eidgheer is 
situated in lat. 16° 35' N. long. 77° 16' E. 100 miles S. W. from the city of Hy- 
derabad. 

Fiuozegue.-— A town in the Hyderabad province, 105 miles S. W. from the 
city of that name. Lat. 16° 25' N. long. 77* 20' E. 

Logapilly. — A town in the Hyderabad province, 78 miles S. W. from the 
city of Hyderabad. Lat. 16° 45' N. long. 77° 32' E. 

Ghunpoor. — A district of considerable size, which occupies that portion of 
the Hyderabad province due south of the city ; but although so near to so great 
a market, much of the land remains uncultivated, and *even uninhabited. The 
town of Ghunpoor stands in lat. 16° 33' N. long. 76° 8' E. 60 miles S. S. W. 
from the city of Hyderabad. This is a fortified hill, and must formerly haws 
been a place of some consequence, as the mosque is one of the largest and best 
built in the Nizam’s dominions. It is now, however, only attended by one soli- 
tary Fakeer, and is used by travellers as a place of repose. Numerous proofs 
remain that the country was once more populous and better cultivated than it is 

vos» si* t 



j3g THE PROVINCE [paloonsha«. 

at present, traces of rained towns and villages being still visible aB owr As 
j ung le, and the marks of former divisions of the land still visible. — (Htjne, 

fyc. &[c). 

Dawurconda.— A district in the Hyderabad province, bounded on the south 
by the Krishna river, and containing the towns of Dawnrcomia, Pailwa, and 
Nardinpett. The first, which communicates its name to the district, is situated hr 
lat. 16° 40' E. long. 78° 57' E. 51 miles S. by E. from the city of Hyderabad. 

Nardinpett.— A town in the Hyderabad province, 29 miles S. E. frem 
Hyderabad city. Lat. 15° 9' N. long. 78° 57 t 

Nalgonda.— A district in the Hyderabad province, intersected-by the Musafr 
or Mussy river, and bounded or the south by the Krishna. Much of this tract, \ 
although capable of being rendered very productive, remains desolate and uncul- 
tivated. The town of Nalgonda stands in lat. 17° 5' N. long. 79° 16 E. 49 
miles E. S. E. from Hyderabad. 

Soriapett— A town ih the Hyderabad province, 65 miles E. by S.from the 
capital. Lat. 17; 10' N. long. 79° 35' E. 

Mungal (Mangala J.— The pergunnah attached to this town, although within 
the Hyderabad province, has all along been attached to the Northern Circus, 
and is consequently under the British jurisdiction, unless an exchange has been 
effected. Lat. 17° 4' N. long. 79° 48' E. 84 miles S. by E. from Hyderabad. 

Cc/mmumait. — A district in the Hyderabad province, of which it occupies 
the eastern extremity, where it borders on the British district of Rajamundry. 
It is but indifferently cultivated and thinly inhabited, yet it contains many dir 
orderly characters who find refuge among its jungles and fastnesses, from whence 
they issue in predatory bands, and infest' die peaceable cultivators of the adja- 
cent provinces under a British jurisdiction. The town of Cummumait, from 
which the tract derives its name, is situated in lat. 17° 16' N. long. 80® 11 E. 
55 miles N. by W. from Condapilly. There are also some considerable villages 
but no other towns of note. 

Culloor. — A town m the Hyderabad province, 37 miles £. by N. from Com- 
mumait. Lat. 17° 20' N. long. 80® 44' E. 

Burgundah,— A town in die Hyderabad province, 97 miles N. from Eilore. 
Lat. 18° 5' N, long. 81® 4' E; 

Byoram. — A town in the Hyderabad province, 49 miles N. from Cmutt- 
mait. Lat. 17® 57" N. long. 80° 24' E. 

Paloonsh ah.— 1 This is the capital of a large zemindary tributary to theNtttm, 
situated in the north-western quarter of the Hyderabad province, 88 miles N, W. 
Rajamundry, lat. 17° 5ff N. long. 81® 2' E. The town is situated in a rich and 



wjuuufoot.] OP HYDERABAD. 139 

luxuriant valley, about four -miles wide, surrouaded oa all sides by lofty ranges 
of mountains, the passes through which are the only accesses to Paloonshah. 
The fort of Paloonshah is 150 yards square, built of stone with octagon bastions, 
but is a post of no strength, being completely commanded by a high hill to the 
eastward. The rampart may be ridden up and down on any side, and resemble* 
the bank of a tank. The faces are irregular, but on two of them the ditch la 
dug deep. When visited by Captain Blunt in 1794, the town was populous, 
and two miles in circumference, but consisted mostly of poor Telinghy huts. 
It had also a manufactory of matchlocks, jinjalls, spears,, sabres, and other 
weapons ; but it has since greatly decayed, for when captured by a Madras de- 
tachment, in 1813, it presented a very miserable appearance. Palcondah, where 
the zemindar resides, is a common mud gurry or native fort in the plain, not 
different from those at almost all the large villages in the Nizam’s country, 
besides which he possesses five or six other gurries in the neighbourhood. The 
country is naturally strong, and the climate sickly and unhealthy. 

In 1812, Aahwa Row, the zemindar of Paloonshah, became notorious as the 
instigator and protector of a band of robbers that infested the British territories, 
who sought an asylum on his estates, and shared with him the booty of their 
marauding expeditions. His ordinary force was estimated at from 2 to 3000 
irregular foot, armed with matchlocks and pikes, and probably as many more 
could be mustered, if any adequate prospect of plunder were held out. In con- 
sequence of these depredations, a detachment was marched against Paloonshah 
in 1813, but the place was found entirely deserted except by a few peons left in 
charge of the fort, Ashwa Row having retired to the village of Badrachellum, 
on the left bank of the Godavery, where an attempt was made to surprize and 
take him prisoner, but he escaped. There was found here a country iron 12- 
pounder in front of the gate outside, and on the bastions a few one and two- 
pounders, and some jinjalls. Although on this occasion the zemindar saved his 
person, he was not equally fortunate in preserving his purse, for he was the 
same year condemned to pay the sum of 50,000 Hyderabad rupees, as a com- 
pensation for depredations committed by his followers in the Masulipatam dis- 
trict, which sum, after many delays and evasion, was at last realized in 1816, 
and paid over to the sufferers. — (J. B. Blunt, Colonel G. Hamilton, J. O. Tod, 
%c. $c.) 

Waeangol. — An ancient city in the Hyderabad province, 77 miles N. E. 
from the city cf Hyderabad. Lat. 17° 54 N long. 79° 34' E. This place was 
A. D. 1067 , at which era it is supposed to have been the metropolis 
d Andray or IfelfegaM. In 1309, Allah ad Been, the Delhi sovereign, dis- 

*3 ‘ 



140 THE PROVINCE [ooicowba. 

patched an army against it, by the ronte of Bengal, without success ; but it w»* 
t fliron from the Hindoos by Aligh Khan. It, however, again reverted to that 
ancient people, and in 1421 its Raja was slain in battle, and the place captured 
by Khan Azim Khan, the general of Ahmed Shah Bhamenee, the Sultan of the 
Deccan. By different authors this name is written Woragulla, Warankul, Wur- 
rungal, and Arinkil. At present the city, or. rather its remains, mid the adjacent 
district to which it furnishes a name, are comprehended within the dominions of 
the Nizam ; but a very great proportion of the surface, especially in the north- 
eastern quarter, remains in a state of nature, in which condition it is like to 
continue so long as the existing revenue and judicial system remains unaltered. — 
(Scott, Ferishta, Wilks, fyc.) 

Rungapoor. — A town in the Hyderabad province, 20 miles N. from Warangol. 
Lat. 18° 11' N. long. 79° 37' E. 

Bonoheer . — ( Vanaghiri , a moody mountain ). — This small district occupies 
the tract of territory in the Hyderabad province north-east of its capital, and 
is bounded on the south by the Mussy river. It is in a rather better condition, 
with respect to agriculture and population, than the rest of the Nizam’s terri- 
tories, and contains a considerable number of small towns and villages. The 
. town of Bongheer, from which the district derives its name, stands in lat. 
17° 28' N. long. 78° 64' E. 25 miles E. N. E. from Hyderabad. 

Pembuktt. — A town in the Hyderabad province, 44 miles N. E. from the 
city of Hyderabad. Lat. 17° 38' N. long. *79° 10 E. , 

Golconda (Golkhanda). — This extensive division of the Hyderabad province 
occupies the tract of country to the east of the capital, both to the north and 
south of the Mussy river, which intersects it. Although renowned for diamond 
mines, it at present contains none, and probably never did. The fortress is, 
notwithstanding, a considerable depdt for these precious stones, which are 
brought from other parts, mostly in the Balaghaut ceded districts, to be po- 
lished and fashioned for sale by the diamond merchants of Golconda. In the 
immediate neighbourhood nothing is to be seen but siennite ; but about 40 mites 
to the west opals and chalcedonies are found - 

The fortress of Golconda stands on a hill about three miles W. N. W from 
the city of Hyderabad. Lat. 17* 15' N. long. 78° 32' E. It was once the 
capital of an extensive kingdom, first under native Hindoo princes, and after- 
wards as a division of the Bhamenee sovereignty, upon the fall of which it 
again became the seat of a monarchy under the Guttub Shahee dyn as ty. In the 
year 1690, it was surrendered by treachery to the Mogul army of Aurengzeb#. 
after a siege of seven months. The deposed sovereign, Abou HmmIs, die d in 



raxoheer.] OP HYDBRABAD. 141 

confinement here, A. D. 1704. At present Golconda is principally used as a 
state prison, where the obnoxious members of the Nizam’s family are confined, 
among which number are his wife, mother, and two youngest sons. The prin- 
cipal inhabitants and bankers of Hyderabad are also permitted to retain houses 
in rite fort, to which they retire with their money on any alarm. — (Scott, 
Upton, Heyne, 8$c. 8gc.) 

Coilconda. — A large district of the Hyderabad province, situated to the 
west of Golconda, about the 17th degree of north latitude, but respecting the 
interior of which very little is known. The town of Coilcohda " f ands in 1st. 
16° fil' long. 77® 50' E. about 57 miles S. W. from Hyderabad. 

Malk air.— T his small division of the Hyderabad province is bounded cfci the 
west by the Beema river, and contains no town of note except the one from 
which it derives its name, situated in lat. 17° 10' N. long. 77° 15' E. 87 'miles 
W. S. from Hyderabad. 

Maiduck ( Madhuca ). — A district of the Hyderabad province, situated to 
the north-east of the capital, and intersected by the Manjera river. The 
town of Maiduck stands in lat. 18° 5 N. long. 78° 24' E. 53 miles N. from 
Hyderabad. 

Kowlas ( Cailata ). — A district in the Hyderabad province, bounded on three 
Bides by the Manjera river, which here makes an extraordinary deep bend. 
The interior is almost unknown, but from the import of its name it is probably 
mountainous. The town of Kowlas stands in lat. 18’ 14' N. long. 77 3 47' E. 
80 miles N. W. from Hyderabad. 

Elgundel. — A large district in the Hyderabad province, of which it occupies 
the northern extremity. Its limits are quite undefined, having been even less 
explored than the rest of the Nizam’s dominions. The town of Elgundel stands 
on the north side of the small river Punnair, in lat. 18° 17' N. long. 79 J 4' E. 75 
milea N. N. E. from the city of Hyderabad. 

Mullangur (Mulanagar.)— A small subdivision of the Hyderabad province, 
situated to the notth-east of the capital. The town of Mullangur.from which 
the tract derives its name, stands in lat. 18° 12' N. long. 79° 18' E. 77 miles N. E. 
from Hyderabad. 

Ratgopaulpett. — A town in the Hyderabad province, 51 miles N. from the 
city. Lat. 18° N. long. 78° 20' E. 

Ramgheeh (Ramaghtri J.—A district in the. Hyderabad province, situated 
towards the north-eastern extremity, and extending across the Godavery which 
intersects it, but only the portion situated, to the south of that river, is subject 
to the Nizam’s authority, the rest belongs to the wild Hindoo province of 



142 HYDERABAD. [kamavsw. 

Gundwana. The town of Ramgheer stands in Fat. 18* 2T N. long. 79* 9f B. 
100 miles N. N. E. from Hyderabad. 

Mav6apett.— A large village in the Hyderabad province, 120 miles N. from 
Condapilly. Lat. 18° 18' N. long. 80° 4? E. This place is situated near the 
S. W. bank of the Godavery, in tne Roloonsha Raja’s country, and is the head 
of a pergunnah of the same name. The mountains continue dose down U 
the east side of the Godavery opposite to Mangapett, and their wild inhabi- 
tants sometimes extend their depredations to this side of the river. — (J. B. 
Blunt, %c. %c.) 



THE PROVINCE OF AURUNGABAD. 

(the place of the throne.) 


A large province of the Deccan, situated principally between the 18th and 
21st degrees of north latitude. To the north it is bounded by the provinces of 
Gujerat, Khandesh, and Berar; on the south by Bejapoor and Beeder to the 
east H has Berar and Hyderabad ; and on the west the Indian Ocean. In length 
it may be estimated at 300 by 160, the average breadth. The course of the 
Neera and Beema rivers mark its separation on the south-west from the con- 
tiguous province of Bejapoor. 

This province is also known by the names of Ahmednuggur and Dowletabad; 
the first having been its capital during the existence of the Nizam Shahee dy- 
nasty, «nd the latter during a short dynasty, established by Mallek A/totfer, an 
Abyssinian, from 1600 to 1635. Aurangabad was partially subdued under the 
reign of Acber, from which period its limits were in a constant state of fluctua- 
tion, until that of Shah Jehan in 1634, when Dowletabad, the capital, being 
taken, the whole country was transformed into a soubah of the Mogul empire, 
then in its zenith. On this event the seat of government was transferred from 
Dowletabad to the neighbouring town of Gurka, which becoming the favourite 
residence of Aurengzebe, while be held the viceroyalty of the Deccan, received 
the name of Aurangabad, which was subsequently communicated to the pro- 
vince. At present the principal modern territorial and political sub-divisions, 
beginning from the north-west, are the following : — 

1. Jowaur 6. Dowletabad 11. 8olapoor 

2. Callianee 7. Jalnapoor 12. Ahmednuggur 

3. Bombay, Salaette, Ac. 8. Bheer 13. Jooneer 

4. Baglana 9. Futtehabad 14. Maharattas. 

5. Singumnere 10. Perrainda 

The surface of Aurangabad is very irregular, and in general mountainous, par- 
ticularly towards the western ghauts, where the hills rise to a great elevation. 
It consequently possesses no rivers of magnitude, although it contains the 
sources of many, such as that Beema, Neera, $nd Godavery, that do not attain 
any considerable size until they quit its limits. This province also abounds with 



144 THE PRQVINCE [aurungabad city* 

natural fortresses and strong holds, which enabled the Maharattas, whose native 
country it is, to give such infinite trouble to Aurengzebe and his generals* A 
considerable difference must, of course, take place in the agriculture, according 
as the land is situated in the mountains, or low districts ; but upon the whole* 
the province is reckoned very fertile, and capable of exporting grain, when not 
harassed by internal hostilities. Rice is the chief grain cultivated, the other 
vegetable productions are the same us in the rest of Hindostan, nor is there any 
thing peculiar with respect to the animal or mineral kingdoms* Horses are 
reared in great numbers for the Maharatta cavalry ; but though a hardy breed, 
they are neither strong nor handsome; they suit, however, the light weight of 
their riders. 

A great proportion of this province, and almost all the sea-coast, having been 
long in the possession of the Maharattas, who are but little addicted to com- 
merce, few observations occur on that head. Piracy was always a favourite oc- 
cupation of such of that nation as ventured to trust themselves on the ocean, and 
for this practice they have been famous, or rather infamous, from the remotest 
antiquity. In modern times they continued to exercise this trade by sea, as they 
did a similar course of depredation by land, until both were coerced by the strong 
arm of the British power. Three-fourths of the province, were until recently 
subject to the Peshwa, and the remainder to the Nizam, with the exception of 
the islands of Bombay, Salsette, and a few other tracts on the main land*. The 
Peshwa was the chief Maharatta sovereign in this province, but there were num- 
berless chiefs, nearly independent, who paid him only a feudal obedience ; 
some of them occupying fortresses within sight of Poona, his capita. 

The population of this territory is in proportion much inferior to that of the 
best of the British provinces, and probably even to the worst. Although it has 
not of late suffered much from external invasion, yet it is but indifferently peo- 
pled, the nature of the Maharatta government being on the whole rather unfa- 
vourable to an increase of inhabitants, who do not probably much exceed six 
millions, of whom not above one-twentieth are of the Mahommedan persuasion* 
The Maharatta language Is principally used, but there are besides various pro- 
vincial dialects ; the Persian and Hindostany are current both in conversation, 
and for the preservation of the revenue records. For the more remote history 
the reader is referred to the words Deccan, Ah*iednuggur, and Doweetabab, 
and for the modern to the word Maharatta. — ( Wilks , Ferishta, 8fc. $c. ) 

Aurungabad. — The capital of the province above described, situated in lat 
19 54 N. long. 75° 33' E. This tojwn was originally named Ckitka, and standi 
a few miles distant from Dowletabad, which being from the short lived' dy- 
nasty of Mallek, Amber, in 1634, the Moguls trahsferred the capital of their re- 



AHMEDNUGGUB..] OF AURUNGABAD. 145 

cent conquests from thence to the village of Gurka. It consequently rapidly 
increased in size, and becoming the favourite residence of Aurengzebe, during 
his viceroyalty of the Deccan, it received the name of Aurangabad, which it 
eventually communicated to the province. This city continued for some time 
the metropolis, after the modern Nizams became independent of Delhi, until 
they quitted it for Hyderabad ; probably on account of its proximity to their 
enemies the Mah&rattas. Aurangabad is within the Nizam’s territories, and like 
many other famous cities of Hindostan, much fallen off from its ancient grandeur. 
The walls are of the construction seen round cities in this quarter of India, but 
rather low, with round towers. The interior presents the usual symptoms of a 
deserted capital, half peopled and in ruins. The tomb is said to have been 
erected for one of Aurengzebe’s daughters, and appears a very inferior imitation 
of the Tauje at Agra, within an enclosure of about 30 acres laid out in gardens. 
That monarch’s own remains are interred at Rowsah, near to Dowletabad, in a 
plain Mahommedan tomb, to which he was removed from Ahmednuggur. In 
the bazar, which is very extensive, various kinds of commodities, European and 
Indian, particularly silks, are exposed for sale, and the population although much 
reduced, is still considerable. In 1803, Jeswunt Row Holcar levied contributions 
on Aurangabad, the attempt having been collusively suggested to him by the 
Nizam’s officer commanding the station, who it was universally believed partici- 
pated in the booty; yet, although the Nizam and his .ministers were perfectly 
aware of the treasonable intercourse between Holcar and their functionary, 
before the exactions were enforced, such was the unsteady basis of the Hy- 
derabad sovereignty, that they were afraid to dismiss their own treacherous 
servant. 

Travelling distance from Poona, 186 miles ; from Bombay, by Poona 284; 
from Hyderabad 296; from Madras 647 ; from Delhi 760; and from Calcutta 
1022 miles. — (Wilks, Rennell, The Duke of Wellington , Fitzclarcncc, 8$c.) • 

Beema River ( Bhima , terrific), — This river has its source in the mountains, 
about 40 miles to the north of Poona, which it passes at a distance of 16 miles. 
From hence, with many windings, it flows in a south-easterly direction, receiving 
the accession of various hill streams, until after a course of about 400 miles, it 
joins the Krishna near Firozegur. The horses most esteemed by the Maharattas 
are bred on the banks of the Beema. They are of a middle size and strong, are 
rather a handsome breed, generally dark bay with black legs, and are called 
from the country which produces them, Beemarteddy horses . — ( Rennell, 5 th Re* 
gi*ter> 

Ahhednuggur.— A city and fortress in the modern province of Aurangabad, 
to which country this place formerly gave its own appellation, having been for 
voau u v 



14 6 the province [ahmednuggur. 

many years the capital of one of the Deccany sovereignties. Lat. 10° 5' N. 
long. 74° 55' E. After the dissolution of the Bhamenee empire of the Deccan, 
Ahmed Nizam Shah established the independent state of Ahmednuggur, about 
the year 1489; in 1493, he laid the foundations of this town, and made it his 
capital. He died A. D. 1508. 

Boorahan Nizam Shah died 1553. 

Hossein Nizam Shah died 1565. 

Morteza Nizam Shah became insane, ana was murdered by his son Meeraun 
Hossein, A. D. 1487. 

Meeraun Hossein was assassinated after a reign of two months and three days. 

Ismael Shah was taken prisoner and confined by his father after a short reign. 

Boorahan Shah died in 1594. 

Ibrahim Shah, having reigned four months, was killed in battle. 

Bahadur Shah, an infant, was taken prisoner by the Moguls and confined for 
life in the fortress of Gualior, and with him ended the Nizam Shahee dynasty of 
Ahmednuggur, about the year 1600. Nominal sovereigns of this family existed 
at Dowletabad until 1634, when it being also taken, the Nizam Shahee domi- 
nions became a province of the Mogul empire, under the name of Aurungabad. 

Ahmednuggur followed the fate of the Delhi emperors until the death of Au- 
rengzebe in 1707, when it was at a very early period seized on by the Maharat- 
tas, and continued to form part of the Peshwa’s dominions until 1797, when 
Dowlet Row Sindia compelled the Peshwa to cede this important fortress with 
the surrounding district, by which cession he not only obtained the command of 
the city of Poona ; but also the best entrance into the territories of the Peshwa 
and of our ally the Nizam. On the 12th of August, 1803, it was taken by the 
army under General Weilesley and ceded to the British by Dowlet Row Sindia, 
at the treaty of peace concluded on the 30th December, 1803, with the view of 
being ultimately restored to the Peshwa. This transfer, however, the British 
government suspended as long as possible, both from a reluctance to relinquish 
the convenient and secure depot which it afforded to the military stores of the 
subsidiary force, and from an anxiety to preserve one strong fortress in the 
Peshwa’s dominions from that state of dilapidation and inefficiency, which .the 
neglect or corruption of his officers have allowed all his other fortresses to expe- 
rience, and a desire to maintain one in a condition calculated for substantial de- 
fence. The fort is entirely of stone, of on oval shape, and about a mile in cir- 
cumference, with a great many round towers, and is one of few forts in India, of 
native construction, that has a glacis to cover the base of the wall, and that has 
no natural advantage, such as great elevation, to recommend it. The walls be- 
tween the towers are not very thick, and the distance from one to the other 



dowletabad.] OF AURUNGABAD. 147 

about 85 yards. The whole area within the fort is vaulted for stores. The ditch 
is very deep and broad, but at one time, owing to the stagnant water it contained, 
was supposed to have injured the salubrity of Ahmednugger. The interior of 
the fort has been recently drained, and as it now promises to be a permanent 
addition to the British dominions in India, it is intended to open another gate, 
and also to erect barracks. Travelling distance from Poona 83 miles ; from 
Bombay by Poona 181 ; from Hyderabad 335; from Oojein 365 ; from Nagpoor 
403 ; from Delhi 830 ; and from Calcutta 1119 miles, — (Scott, Ferishta , Sir John 
Malcolm , Fitzclarence , *#c. $c. 8$c*) 

Dowletabad (or Deoghir ). — A town and strong fortress in the province of 
Aurungabad, 7 miles N. W. from the city of that name. Lat. 19° 57' N. long. 
75°25'E. The fortress is formed of an insulated mass of granite, about 3000 
yards from the range of hills to the northward and westward, and presents to 
the eye a shape not unlike a compressed beehive, except that the lower part, for 
nearly one-third of the way up, is scarped like a wall, and presents all round 
a perpendicular cliff. It has never been accurately measured, but appears to be 
about 500 feet to the summit, which is almost a point. The scarp of the rock 
down to the counterscarp may be about 150 feet, and the scarp below the glacis 
from 30 to 40 feet, which added to 150, will give above 180 feet for nearly the 
whole height of the scarped cliff. An outer wall of no strength surrounds the 
pettah, above which towers the hill that forms the citadel ; but up to the ditch, 
three other lines of walls and gates are passed. The causeway across the ditch 
does not admit of more than two persons at once, and a building-with battle- 
ments defends it on the opposite side. 

After passing the ditch the ascent is through an excavation into the heart of 
the rock, at first so low that a person is obliged to stoop nearly double, but after 
a few paces it, opens into a high vault, lighted by torches, out of which the as- 
cent is by a winding passage, gradually sloping, cut through the interior of the 
body of the hill. This passage is about 12 feet high, and the same in breadth, 
with a regular rise. At certain distances from this gallery are trap doors, with 
flights of small steps to the ditch below, only wide enough to admit a man to 
pass, also cut through the solid rock to the water s edge, and not exposed to the 
fire of assailants unless they gain the very crest of the glacis. There are like- 
wise other passages and recesses for depositing stores. After ascending the main 
passage for about ten minutes, it opens out into a hollow in the rock about 20 feet 
square. On one side leaning against the cliff, a large iron plate is seen, nearly 
the same size as the bottom of the hollow, with an immense iron poker. This 
plate is intended to be laid over the outlet and a fire placed on it, should the 
besiegers make themselves masters of the subterraneous passage, and there is 

u 2 



148 THE PROVINCE [*«hu. 

a hole three feet In diameter, which is intended to convey a strong current of air 
to the fire. On the road to the summit, which is very steep, and in some {daces 
covered with brushwood, there are some houses, towers, and gates. The gover- 
nor’s house is an excellent one, and surrounded by a verandah with 12 arches, 
and through this house passes the only road to the top. Towards the summit 
the ridge becomes very narrow, and on the peak, where the Nizam’s flag flies, 
stands a large brass 24-pounder, but besides this, in the whole fortress there are 
said to be only a few two and three-pounders. As the hill contains reservoirs of 
water, if properly defended, it could be only captured by famine. 

When the Mahommedans, under Allah ud Deen, carried their arms into this 
part of the Deccan, about A. D. 1293, Deoghir or Tagara was the residence of 
a powerful Hindoo Raja, who was defeated and his capital taken and plundered 
of immens e riches. In 1306, the fortress and surrounding district were reduced 
to permanent subjection by Mallick Naib, the Emperor of Delhi’s general. In 
the early part of the 14th century, the Emperor Mahommed made an attempt 
to transfer the seat of government to Deoghir, the name of which he changed to 
Dowletabad. To effect this project he almost ruined Delhi, in order to drive the 
inhabitants to his new capital, 750 miles distant from their old habitations, but 
his endeavours were without avail, so that he was obliged to desist after doing 
much mischief. About 1695, Dowletabad surrendered to Ahmed Nizam Sbah 
of Ahmednuggur, and on the fall of that dynasty, was taken possession of by 
Mallek Amber, an Abyssian slave, who was reckoned the ablest general, politician, 
and financier of his age. His successors reigned until 1634, when the city and 
fortress were taken by the Moguls, during the reign of Shah Jehan, and the seat 
of government transferred to the neighbouring town of Gurka or Kerkhi, since 
named Aurangabad. Along with the rest of the Mogul Deccan, it fell into the 
possession of Nizam ul Mulk, and has continued with his descendants, the Ni- 
zams of Hyderabad, ever since, with the exception of the year 1758, during 
which it waa held by M. Bussy, but he was obliged to abandon it, when ordered 
to withdraw with his army to the Carnatic by his superior officer, M. Lally. — 
( Fttzclarence, Ferishta, Scott, Orme, #c.#c. fyc.) 

Eioba (Elura). — A village in the province of Aurangabad, near to the city 
of Dowletabad. In a mountain, about a mile to the east of this place, are some 
remarkable excavations of Hindoo temples, which in magnitude and perfection 
of execution are said to excel any thing of the kind in India; but which it is 
impossible to render intelligible without the assistance of plates. The cave 
temples occupy a considerable extent of surface, and at first do not stri ke the 
mind as any thing wonderful, until they are discovered to be all one solid tUHU 
of rock. The following axe the dimensions of the two prin^i pel excavations - 



30VXV&.) OF AURUNGABAD. 140 

Dimensions of Cailas. 

Height of the gateway 14 feet. 


Passage of the gateway, having on each side rooms 15 feet by 9, . 42 

Inner area or court, length from the gateway to the opposite scarp 247 
Ditto ditto breadth .... 150 

Greatest height of the rock out of which the court is excavated . 100 

Dimensions of the Grand Temple . 

Door of the portico, 12 feet high by 6 broad ; length from the door 
of the portico, entering the temple, to the back wall of the 


temple 103 

Length from the same place to the end of the raised platform, be- 
hind the temple 142 

Greatest breadth of the inner part of the temple 61 

Height of the ceiling 18 


The symbols seen in these excavations tend to prove that they were formed, 
some by devotees of Brahminical dogmas, and others by those of the Buddhists ; 
but at present they are visited by no pilgrim of either persuasion, nor are they 
held in the slightest veneration. The Brahmins on the spot assert that they were 
formed by Eeloo Raja of Ellichpoor, 7914 years ago ; but as they are found in 
the neighbourhood of Deoghir or Tagara (now Dowletabad), which prior to the 
Mahomedan conquest in 1293, was the capital of a powerful Hindoo principality; 
they probably originated in the superstitions of the reigning families at that 
metropolis. As they have never yet been visited by any person versed in the 
Hindoo languages and mythology, our information respecting them continues 
very defective, but access to them has recently been greatly facilitated, as by the 
last treaty with Holcar, the entire village and lands attached have been trans- 
ferred to the British government . — ( Fitzclarence, Malet , Erskinc, $c. fyc.) 

Toka. — A town in the province of Aurangabad, 27 miles S. W. from the city 
of that name. Lat. 19° 25' N. long. 75° 10' E. This place makes a good ap- 
pearance, the houses being all of stone and several stories high. 

Jowaur. — A town and small district belonging to the Poona Maharattas, ip 
the province of Aurangabad, bounded on the west by the sea, and on the east 
by the Western Ghauts. It contains no sea-port of note, and the territory gene- 
rally is but imperfectly known. Besides Jowaur, the capital, which stands in 
lat, 19*55'N. long. 73° 23' E, 44 miles S.E. from Damaun, the principal towns, 
or rather villages, are Mokaura, Segwah, and Asseree. Many mountain streams 
flow from the Western Ghauts into the ocean, the chief of which are the Sooria, 
and the Vaiturani, which last is also the name of the Styx of Hindoo my- 



150 the PROVINCE [basssik. 

Mok aura.— A town in the Aurungabad province, 47 miles S, E, from Damaun* 
Lat. 19° 56' N. long. 73° 29' E. 

Dannoo. — A town on the sea coast of Aurungabad, 34 miles south from 
Damhun. Lat. 19° 57' N. long. 72° 50' E, 

Maundvee. — A town in the province of Aurungabad, 13 miles S. by E. from 
Bombay. Lat. 18° 47' N. long. 73° 1' E. 

Dassgong. — A town in the province of Aurungabad, 73 miles S. S. E. from 
Bombay. Lat. 18° 2' N. long. 73° 28' E. 

Asseree. — A town in the province of Aurungabad, 45 miles S. by E. froip 
Damaun. Lat. 19° 47' N. long. 73° 5' E. \ 

Callianee. — ( Calyani ). — A strong hilly country extending along the se| 
coast of the Aurungabad province, opposite to the island of Bombay, bounded 
on the east by the western ghauts, and situated between the 18th and 20th de- . 
grees of north latitude. The principal towns are Callianee, Bassein, Panwell, 
Chowl, Rajapoor, Dassgong, and Mhar, besides many hill fortresses ; the largest 
streams are the Tanja, Cailas, Bhagarati, and Savatri. When conquered during 
the rupture with the Peshwa in 1818, the towns were found large and well 
peopled, and the country apparently in a state of great prosperity. 

Callianee. — The capital of the above district, situated on the south side of 
the Cailas river, 30 miles N. E. from Bombay. Lat. 19° 15' N. long. 73° 15' E- 
This town sustained many sieges during the wars between the Moguls and Ma~ 
harattas, and is surrounded by ruins of various sorts. It is still a populous town 
and carries on some traffic in coco nuts, oil, coarse cloths, brass, and earthen- 
ware. Its external appearance indicates a former state of superior opulence ; 
but it is now a poor Mahommedan town. The travelling distance from Poona 
is 91 miles. — (M. Graham , Rcnncll , §c.) 

Bassein. — A sea-port town in the province of Aurungabad, separated from 
the island of Salsette by a narrow strait, and situated about 27 miles N. from 
the fort of Bombay. Lat. 19° 20' N. long. 72° 56' E. The country around this 
town is in a very improved state of cultivation, although it has been so long 
under a Maharatta government, and has long formed a most extraordinary con- 
trast to the desolation that prevails in the British island of Salsette. Many of 
the cultivators here are Roman Catholic Christians. The teak forests which 
supply the marine yard at Bombay, lie along the western side of the Ghaut 
mountains, to the N. and N. E. of Bassein, the numerous rivers which descend 
from them affording the means of water carriage. 

In 1531, the Portugueze obtained possession of Bassein by treaty with the 
Sultaa of Cambay, after which they erected fortifications. Prom them it was 
wrested by the Maharattas about 1750, having been more than two centuries in 
their undisturbed possession. It was taken by General Goddard’s army from 



eavllee.] OF AURUNGABAD. 151 

the Maharattas, but restored at the peace of Salbye ; and here, on the 31st of 
December, 1802, was signed the celebrated treaty between the Peshwa and the 
British government, which annihilated the Maharattas as a federal empire. — 
(Sir John Malcolm , Rennell \ Bruce, Malet , <§*c. &;c.) 

Panwell. — Situated on the river Pan, which flows up several miles from the 
harbour, but during the prevalence of the south-westerly winds, the passage to 
Bombay, from which it is distant 21 miles east, is tedious and uncertain. Lat, 
18* 5d'N. Jong. 73° 15' E. The ruins of a small fort still remain at the entrance, 
built in 1682, by the Maharatta Raja Sambajee, to protect the low districts in 
the neighbourhood from the irruptions of the Siddees (then in the sea service 
of Aurengzebe), who used to land and burn or carry off the rice. The town of 
Panwell is extensive, and being well situated carries on a considerable traffic. — 
(M, Graham , Moore, Lord Valentia , 

Kurnalla. — T his fort stands within a few miles of Chowke, on the road 
leading from Panwell to the ghauts, 20 miles S. E. from Bombay. Lat. 18 Q 51' N. 
long. 73° 14' E. It surrendered to the detachment under Colonel Prother, with- 
ourany casualty occurring, on the 21st of January, 1818. 

Boor Ghaut. — A ghaut, or pass, through the western range of mountains, 
which is ascended on the road from Bombay to Poona. 

Choul. — An ancient towm on the sea-coast of the Callianee district, 30 miles 
S. by E. from Bombay. — Lat. 18° 31' N. long. 73° 2' E. This was a place of 
considerable importance during the Bhamenee dynasty of the Deccan, being 
mentioned as such by Ferishta. 

Rajapoor (or Dundah Rajpoor).-*- This place named also Jezira JessorC, be- 
longs to the Siddee family, formerly the hereditary admirals of the Mogul 
empire, in which naval appointment they were succeeded by the British govern- 
ment. It stands in lat. 18° 8' N. long. 73° 6' E, about 46 miles S. by E. from 
Bombay. 

Paullee. — A fortress placed near the top of an insulated mountain, 1500 
feet in height, situated about 3 miles to the south-east of the Nagotama river. 
Lat. 18° 3F N. long. 18° 23' E. 40 miles S. E. from Bombay. The summit of 
the hill consists of an oblong and almost perpendicular mass of rock, of consi- 
derable height and extent, at the base of which is a level, but* narrow space, all 
round. On the outer edge there is a strong wall flanked by towers, which 
works compose the fort. It is inaccessible on all sides except the north, in 
which face is a gateway, approached by a road, rugged and precipituous. The 
interior of the fort contains excavated tanks, capable of holding a sufficiency of 
water, and there are casements for the accommodation of the garrison as well 
as for stores and ammunition. It was besieged in February, 1818, by a detach- 



152 THE PROVINCE [boh bat. 

ment under Colonel Prother, and the houses being set on fire by a well directed 
bombardment, the garrison lost heart and surrendered, complaining that which 
ever way they turned, the shells always followed them . — (Public Journals, 8$c.) 

Nagotama. — A large and respectable town, about 35 miles up the river 
which joins the sea between the southern point of Caranja and Tull point, and 
37 miles S. S. E. from Bombay. Lat. 18° 30' N. long. 73* 16' E. The road 
from hence to Poona leads through several large and populous villages, up the 
Koarree ghaut, which can without much difficulty be made practicable for 
wheeled carriages. In consequence of these facilities, in 1818, the Bombay 
government had it in contemplation to abandon the old route to Poona by PanA 
well and up the Boor ghaut, and to forward the public stores, &c. by the route 
of Nagotama, which besides other advantages would reduce the distance of 
land carriage about 18 miles . — ( Public Journals, 8$c.) 

Koarree. —The fort of Koarree is situated on the range of Western Ghauts, 
about 20 miles south of the Boor ghaut, and commands the principal pass lead- 
ing from the Concan, near Jamboolpara, immediately above Soweeghaut. Lat. 
18° 35' N. long. 73° 27' E. 41 miles S. E. from Bombay. It is about one mile 
and a half in circumference, and amply supplied with water from a fine tank 
nearly the breadth of the fort. There are only two entrances, the main one on 
the eastern side ; the other a much more difficult one, being steeper, and up the 
rugged face of the rock on the western, which is considered the weakest side 
of the fort. The approach to Koarree from the north is through a thick and 
almost impervious jungle. In March, 1818, it was besieged by a detachment 
under Colonel Prother, when many shells were thrown, one of which fortunately 
blew up the magazine, threw down the principal gateway, and set fire to several 
houses; which uproar so intimidated the garrison, that they compelled the 
commandant to surrender. About one lack of rupees and some grain were 
found in the fort , — (Public Journals , £$c.) 

BOMBAY. 

A small island, formerly comprehended in the Mogul province of Aurunga- 
bad, but now the seat of the principal British settlement on the west coast of 
India. Lat. 18 56 N. long. 72° 57' E. This island is formed by two 
ranges of whinstone rock, running nearly parallel to, mid at the distance of 
about three miles from each other. The western range of hills is little more 
than five miles long ; the eastern, exclusive of Colabba, may exceed eight jin 
length. At their northern and southern extremities they are united by two 
belts of sand, now forming a kind of stone, rising but a few feet above the level 
o the sea. These natural boundaries were formerly breached in several places, 



tomb at.] OF AURUNGABAD. 153 

where they admitted the sea, and according to Fryers's account of Bombay in 
1681, about 40,000 acres of good land were then overflowed. It appears also 
that the Goper river, which rises among the hills of Salsette and disembogues 
itself into the channel between that island and Bombay, when swollen by floods, 
used to enter the breaches at* the northern extremity, and after traversing the 
whole extent of the latter, discharge itself into the ocean. In fact, Bombay 
was nothing originally but a group of small islands, with numerous backwaters, 
producing rank vegetation, at one time dry, and at another overflowed by the 
sea. So unwholesome, in consequence, was the situation reckoned, that the 
older travellers agreed in allotting not more than three years for the average 
duration of life at this presidency. 

The fort of Bombay stands on the south-eastern extremity of the island, on 
a narrow neck of land formed by Back bay on the western side, and by the har- 
bour on the eastern. The Worlee sluices are at the north-western end of the 
island, a distance of nearly six miles from the fort. Formerly a coco-nut wood 
not* only covered the esplanade, but the fort also, down to the channel between 
Bombay and Colabba. At that remote period of time, Mahim was the principal 
town on the island, and the few houses of the present town, then in existence, 
were interspersed among the coco-nut trees, with the exception of those built 
on the ridge of Dungaree hill, adjoining the harbour, which appears to have been 
then occupied by fishermen. When the fortifications were erected, but very 
little more land was cleared of the coco-nut trees, beyond what was absolutely 
indispensable, leaving the space within the body of the fort, and without its 
walls up to the very glacis, a coco-nut grove.. From time to time, by various 
means, the esplanade was gradually cleared of trees to 600 yards from the fort, 
but Cadjan huts were still tolerated until the close of 1802, when they were 
also removed. In the following year the great fire happened within the fort, 
and the esplanade was extended to 800 yards. By this time, the more wealthy 
inhabitants had built houses in a detached irregular manner, throughout the 
coco-nut woods contiguous to the esplanade, and Dungaree ridge was also built 
on to the extent of two miles and upwards from the fort; the. little vacant 
ground remaining had in consequence risen to an enormous price. In this state 
of things, the sufferers by the fire and the indigent from the esplanade, had no 
alternative but to resort.to the Honourable Company’s salt batty ground, scarcely 
recovered from the sea, neither had government any ground to give in exchange 
for the valuable land taken when extending the esplanade. All these causes 
combined, serve to account for what is called the new town of^ Bombay being 
built in such a low, muddy, unwholesome tract of land, which during the mon- 
VOL. XI, x 



THE PROVINCE 


154 


[BOMBAY. 


soon has the appearance of a shallow lake, many of the houses being then 
separated from each other by water, so that the inhabitants suffer from the inun- 
dation, and its effects, during seven or eight months of the year. At all seasons 
the ground floor of many of its houses are on a level with high-water mark, 
some below, and but few actually above it at full spring tides. Much also of 
the rain water that falls on the old town and the esplanade, passes through the 
new town, and thence across the breach hollow to the sluices at Worlee. 

Under these circumstances, the surface of the island is so circumscribed, 
rocky, and uneven, (except where a considerable part is overflowed by the sea,)j 
that it does not produce a sufficiency of grain in the year to supply its popula-\ 
tion for one week, yet each spot that will admit of tillage is brought under cul- 
tivation of some sort or planted with coco-nut trees. The vellard, which com- 
municates between Beach Candy and Lovegrove, has prevented the ocean from 
making a breach through the centre. This substantial work, with smaller ones 
of the same construction, have preserved the low lands of the island from being 
inundated by the spring tides, which but for them would have destroyed all but 
the barren hills. Although the sea be now excluded, the rain water still collects 
in the lower parts of the island, where the surface is said to be 12 feet under 
high-water mark, and during the rains forms an unwholesome swamp! In 1805* 
Mr. Duncan completed a vellard, or causeway, across the narrow arm of the 
sea, which separated Bombay from the contiguous island of Salsette ; an opera- 
tion of infinite service to the farmers and gardeners who supply the markets, 
but which is said to have had a prejudicial effect on the harbour. 

The fortifications of Bombay have been improved, but are esteemed too ex- 
tensive, and would require a numerous garrison. Towards the sea they are 
extremely strong, but on the land side do not offer the same resistance, and to 
an enemy landed and capable of making regular approaches, it must surrender. 
The town within the walls was begun by the Portugueze, and even those houses 
that have since been built are of a similar construction, with wooden pillars 
supporting wooden verandas ; the consequence of which is, that Bombay bears 
no external resemblance to the other two presidencies. The government house 
is a handsome building, with several good apartments, but it has the great in- 
convenience of the largest apartment on both floors being a passage room to the 
others. 

The northern portion of the fort is inhabited by Parsee families, who are not 
remarkably cleanly in their domestic concerns, nor in the streets where they 
live. The view from the fort is extremely beautiful towards the bay, which is 
here and there broken by islands, many covered with trees, while the lofty and 



OF AURUNGABAD. 


BOMBAY.] 


155 


curious shaped hills of the table land form a striking back ground. The sea is 
on three sides of the fort, and on the fourth is the esplanade ; at the back of 
which is the black town amidst coco-nut trees. Substantial buildings now 
extend to very nearly three miles from the fort. 

Bombay appears for many years to have been left to itself, and individuals 
were permitted to occupy what land they pleased, nor was there any system or 
regulation established for the security of the public revenue. In 1707, the 
greater part of the present limits of the fort had become private property, but 
by purchases and exchanges, between 1707 and 1759, it became again the pro- 
perty of the Company, and has been subsequently transferred to private persons. 

It is an extraordinary fact that the principal part, if not the whole, of the landed 
property which the Company now possesses within the walls of Bombay, has 
been acquired by purchase, having, within the memory of many persons now 
living, bought it of individuals who were always considered to be merely the 
Company’s tenants at will. The property thus acquired to the Company by 
purchase and exchanges, cost, since 1760, altogether about 737,927 rupees. 

The buildings within the walls of the fort including the barracks, arsenal, and 
docks, may be valued at one crore five lacks of rupees ; the rent of houses 
within the fort in 1813 amounted to 527,360 rupees, including the Company’s 
property. The great price given for ground within the fort which is daily in- 
creasing, the buildings carried on in every quarter of the European part, the 
commodious and costly family dwellings constructed by many of the natives, 
and the immense shops and warehouses belonging both to natives and Euro- 
peans, furnish the strongest evidence of the high price of ground within the 
fortress of Bombay, and that it might afford to pay a rent of 100 guineas per 
acre for the support of the police, which upon 259,244 square yards would yield 
22,036 rupees. 

Bombay is literally a barren rock, and presents no encouragement to agricul- 
tural speculations ; but its commercial and maritime advantages are great. It 
is the only principal settlement in India, where the rise of the tides is sufficient 
to permit the construction of docks on a large scale ; the very highest spring 
tides reach to 17 feet, but the usual height is 14 feet. The docks are the Com- 
pany’s property, and the king’s ships pay a high monthly rent for repairs. They 
are entirely occupied by Parsees, who possess an absolute monopoly in all the 
departments ; the person who contracts for the timber being a Parsee, and the 
inspector on delivery of the same caste. On the 23d of June, 1810, the Minden, 
of 74 guns, built entirely by Parsees, without the least assistance, was launched 
from these dock-yards, and since then the Cornwallis and Wellesley, and another 

x 2 



156 THE PROVINCE [bombat. 

of equal strength, have been launched under similar circumstances; besides two 
of 38, two of 36, two of 18, and two of 10 guns. In addition to these, since 
the dock-yard has been established, there have been built for commercial pur- 
poses, nine ships of 1000 tons ; five about 800 tons, six above 700 tons, and five 
above 600 tons, besides 35 of inferior tonnage ; all constructed by the Jumsetjee 
Parsee family as head builders. The teak forests from whence these yards are 
supplied, lie along the western side of the Ghaut mountains, and other con- 
tiguous hills on the north and east of Bassein ; the numerous rivers that descend 
from them affording water carriage for the timber. The ships built at Bombay 
are reckoned one third more durable than any other India-built ships. 

This little island commands the entire trade of the north-west coast of India, 
together with that of the Persian gulf. The principal cargo of a ship bound 
from Bombay to China is cotton, in the stowing and screwing of which, the 
commanders and officers are remarkably dexterous. At Bombay, 1500 lbs. of 
cotton are screwed into 50 feet, or one ton ; but at Calcutta 7 per cent, more 
are put. The other part of their cargo consists of sandal wood, pepper from 
the Malabar coast, gums, drugs, and pearls from Arabia, Abyssinia and Persia; 
elephants'teeth, cornelians, and other produce of Cambay, shark fins, bird nests, 
&c. from the Maldives, Lackadives, and eastern islands. These ships generally 
arrive at Canton in the month of June, or beginning of July, and lie there idle 
(except delivering and receiving their return cargo) until the month of December 
or January. In 1808, the quantity of cotton brought to Bombay for re-export- 
ation was 85,000 bales, of 735 pounds, the half of which is procured from the 
country the Nerbudda and the rest from Catch and Gujerat. The cotton 
screw is worked by a capstan, to each bar of which there are 30 men, amounting 
in the whole to about 240 to each screw. Hemp is packed in the same manner, 
but it requires to be carefully laid in the press, for the fibres are liable to be 
broken if they are bent. For the European market Bombay is an excellent 
place to procure gums and drugs of all sorts, Mocha coffee, barilla, cornelians, 
agates, and also blue and. other Surat goods. 



BOMBAY.] 


OF AURUNGABAD, 


157 


EXTERNAL COMMERCE OF BOMBAY FOR 18024. 





































158 


THE PROVINCE 


[bombat. 


EXTERNAL COMMERCE OF BOMBAY FOR 1815-16. 



In 1814, the Company’s marine at Bombay consisted of 18 armed cruizers, 
besides armed boats, advice boats, and other craft, and it still gives employ- 
ment to a regular establishment of officers and seamen, besides one marine batta- 
lion. The maintenance of this force is rendered necessary by the swarms of 
pirates who infest the western coast of India, from the shores of the Persian 
gdlf to Goa, and who are distinguished, particularly those who lurk in the more 
northerly tracts, by their courage, cunning, and ferocity. These nautical ban- 
ditti have haunted the very same region since the time of Alexander the Great, 
and probably longer. 


























OF AURUNGABAD. 


BOMBAY.] 


159 


Within a century the population of Bombay has increased more than tenfold ; 
in 1716, it was estimated at 16,000 souls ; in 1816, tuv, icsult of a census made 
by order of government gave the following numbers, which may be depended 


on, viz. 

British, not military 1,840 

Ditto, military and marine 2,460 

Native Christians, Portugueze and Armenians 1 1,500 

Jews 800 

Mahommedans 28,000 

Hindoos 103,800 

Parsees 13,150 


Total 161,550 


The number of houses was 20,786, or about eight persons to each house. The 
above statement does not include the temporary sojourners and floating popula- 
tion, resorting to the island for transitory and commercial purposes, but not 
making it their permanent residence. The aggregate of these was computed 
by Mr. Warden, in 1814, at 60,000 persons, and by the missionaries, in 1816, at 
from 60,000 to 75,000 annually. The floating population above alluded to con- 
sists of Carnatas, Ghauties, Carvas, Maharattas, Arabs, Persians, Goa Portu- 
gueze, Parsees, and a great proportion of the sea-faring men. The four first- 
mentioned classes remain in Bombay for a few years, hoard their earnings, and 
having saved a few hundred rupees, return to their native country, where they 
purchase land at a cheap rate, subject however to the caprices of a despotic 
sovereign and his officers. 

Among the Europeans the rage for country houses prevails as generally as at 
Madras, and is attended with the same inconveniencies, all business being neces- 
sarily transacted in the fort. The generality of the country houses are com- 
fortable and even elegant, and although not so splendid as those of Calcutta and 
Madras, are better adapted to the climate, and enjoy more beautiful views ; 
some of the rich natives have houses of great extent, the children of the family 
continuing to live under the same roof even after they are married. The lower 
classes have small huts mostly of clay, covered with a mat made of palmira 
leaves. Their wages are a great deal higher than in Bengal; but food is dearer; 
palanquin bearers receive seven and eight rupees per month. The only Eng- 
lish church is in the fort. The Portugueze and Armenian churches are more 
numerous, both within and without the walls, but of the native Christians in 
Bombay, by for the greater number are usually termed Portugueze and frequent 



160 THE PROVINCE [BOMBAY. 

Portugueze chapels. Besides these religious edifices there are three or four syna- 
gogues, with many mosques mid Hindoo temples. The largest pagoda is in the 
black town, one mile and a half from the fort, and is dedicated to Momba 
Devi. 

The Armenians form a part of those eastern societies of Christians, who differ 
in point of faith, discipline and worship, both from the Greek and Latin churches, 
and* have shewn an inviolable attachment to the opinions and institutions of 
their ancestors, under the severest trials of oppression. They are not numerous 
in Bombay, but form a very respectable class of Christians, and have one church " 
within the fort. They are occasionally visited by one of the 42 archbishops, 
who are subject to the patriarch of Eckmiazin. By far the greater proportion 
of these archbishops are titular prelates, whose chief duty is the visiting of their 
numerous churches dispersed over the eastern world. Besides the church at 
Bombay, they have within the limits of their society, churches at Surat, Bussora, 
Bagdad, and Bushire. 

The Parsee inhabitants possess nearly the whole of the island, and seem to 
have perfectly domesticated themselves in their new abode, since their expul- 
sion from Persia by the Mahommedans. They are an active loyal body of men 
and contribute greatly to the prosperity of the settlement. In general they are 
a tall comely race, athletic and well formed/ and much fairer than the natives of 
Hindostan; the females are more remarkable for chastity than cleanliness. The 
girls are delicate and pleasing, but the bloom of youth soon disappears, and 
before 20 they grow coarse and masculine, in a far greater degree than either the 
Hindoos or Mahommedans. In every European house of trade there is a Parsee 
partner, who usually supplies the largest portion of the capital. They wear an 
Asiatic dress, but they eat and drink like the English. In the morning and 
evening they crowd to the esplanade to pay their adoration, by prostration to 
the sun ; on these occasions the females do not appear, but they still go to the 
well for water. 

Most of the original Parsee customs continue unaltered, particularly their mode 
of sepulture, which is as follows — The body of the defunct is deposited in a 
circular building, open at the top, about 55 feet in diameter, and 25 in height, 
filled up solid to within five feet of the top, Excepting a well, 15 feet in diameter, 
in the centre, the part so filled being terraced with a slight declivity towards 
the well. Two circular grooves, three inches deep, are raised round the well, 
tiie first at the distance of four, the second at the distance of 10 feet from the 
well. Grooves of the like depth and height, and four feet distant from each 
other, at the outer part of the outer circle, are carried straight from the wall to 
the well, oommuiucating with the circular ones, to carry off the water. The tomb 



flomuv.] OF AURUNGABAD. 161 

is by this means divided into three circles of partitions, the outer for the men, 
the middle for the women, and the inner for children. There they are respectively 
placed, wrapped loosely in a piece of cloth, and left to be devoured by the vul- 
tures; which is soon done, as numbers of these birds are always seen watching 
and hoveling round the charnel houses for their prey. The friends of the de- 
ceased, or the person who has charge of the tomb, come at the proper time, 
and throw the hones into their receptacle, the well in the centre. From the 
bottom of the well subterranean passages lead to remove the bones, and to pre- 
vent the well from filling. Men of large property sometimes build one of the 
above sort for themselves. The public tombs are five in number, but not all in 
use, and are situated about three miles north-westerly from Bombay fort. The 
sun and the sea partake with fire in the adoration of the Parsees ; their year is 
divided into 12 lunar months ; but they have no sub-division of time into weeks. 

The markets at Bombay cannot be expected to equal those of Calcutta, but 
in variety and quality of articles, they certainly excel those of Madras. The 
Bazar mutton is hard and lean, but when well fed and taken care of is as good 
as the English ; kid is always good and the poultry abundant, but not good 
unless fed on purpose. The fish are excellent, but the larger kinds not plentiful. 
The bumbelo resembles our large sand eel, and after being dried in the sun is 
usually eaten at breakfast with a dish of rice and split peas, coloured with tur- 
meric and named kedgeree. The prawns are uncommonly fine. The island is 
too small to furnish much game, but the red-legged partridge is not .uncommon, 
and snipes are sometimes seen. The frogs here are large, and are eaten by the 
Chinese and Portugueze. The common and sweet potatoe are very good at Bom- 
bay, but the vegetable for which Bombay is celebrated all over the east is , the 
onion. Potatoes are now produced in this quarter of India in the greatest abum 
dance, although so recently introduced ; the Bombay market is supplied with 
this root from Gujerat, and also with some cheese, which is hard and ill-flavoured. 
The Buffaloe furnishes the milk and butter, occasionally the beef, but Europeans 
in general are prejudiced against it. 

There is a great difference in the character and habits in society of the natives 
of our principal settlements and those of the interior. A person who has resided 
only at Bombay cannot have an intimate knowledge respecting the habits and 
manners of the natives in the interior provinces of India. Not many years ago, 
a widow at Bombay wanted to burn herself with her husband’s corpse* which 
Wag prevented, she applied to the governor, who refused permission, upon 
Wffieh die crossed the harbour to the Maharatta shore and there underwent 
the ceremony. .The European society is here less numerous, and dm sal ari es of 
the public servants smaller, than at the two other presidencies $ economy is con* 

VOl. IX, Y 



162 THE PROVINCE [bombay. 

sequently more attended to, but the style of living is frequently elegant, and 
always comfortable and abundant. Rice, the chief food of the lower orders, is 
often imported from Bengal, even in favorable years. A society has been for 
some' years established at Bombay, on a plan similar to that of the Bengal 
Asiatic Society ; but it intends to limit itself to the present state of manners 
among the inhabitants of the country. The situation at Bombay ought to be 
healthy, but it is said to be the reverse, and that the liver is a complaint more 
frequent and fatal there than in any other part of India. Exposure to the land 
breeze which sets in every evening is frequently followed by a fever ; moderate; 
living and cautiously avoiding opposite extremes, of abstinence oar indulgence, is^ 
found most conducive to longevity. \ 

As a place of consequence Bombay owes its origin to the Portugueze, to 1 
whom it was ceded in 1530, having been before a dependency on a chief resi- 
ding at Tanna in Salsette. On account of its fine harbour a fort was erected 
by that nation, but the vicinity of Goa, the Portugueze capital, prevented its 
becoming in their hands a station of importance. Two derivations are assigned 
to the name, one from the Portugueze Buon Bahia (a good bay), and the other 
from the Hindoo Goddess Bomba Devi. 

This island was ceded to King Charles II. in June 1661, as part of Queen 
Catherine’s portion ; and in March 1662, a fleet of five men of war, under the 
command of the Earl of Marlborough, was dispatched with 500 troops, under 
Sir Abraham Shipman, and arrived at Bombay on the 18th of September, 1662, 
but the Portugueze governor evaded the cession. The English admiral demanded 
Bombay and its dependencies, comprehending Salsette and Tanna, while the 
Portugueze interpreted the treaty to signify Bombay only. The troops were re- 
moved to the island of Anjediva, where the mortality was so gre^c that the sur- 
viving commanding officer, Mr. Cooke, was glad to accept the island of Bombay 
on any terms, and to this place they were transferred in February, 1664-5, the 
survivors mustering only 119 rank and file. Such was the unfortunate com- 
mencement of this afterwards flourishing settlement, which in the hands of the 
Portugueze had remained almost a desert. Mr. Cooke may be considered the first 
English governor of Bombay ; on the 5th November, 1666, he was succeeded by 
Sir Gervase Lucas. 

It was soon discovered that his Majesty had made an unprofitable acquisition, 
and that the East India Company were much injured by the trade carried cm by 
persons in the King’s service, who sold European goods for which they paid no 
freight. In consequence of these and other reasons, the King, on the 27th of 
March, 1668, by letters patent, transferred the island of Bombay from the 
Crown to the East India Company, in free and common soccage, as the manor 



OF AURUNGABAD. 


BOMBAY.] 


163 


of East Greenwich* on the payment of the annual rent of £10 in gold, on the 
30th of September of each year. The revenue of the island shortly after the 
cession was estimated at £2823 per annum. Sir Gervase Lucas died the 21st of 
March, 1607, and w;as succeeded by the deputy governor, Captain Henry Geary. 

At the commencement of this government, Mr. Cooke, the first governor, en- 
deavoured to assemble a force at Salsette, assisted by the Jesuits, in order to 
re-establish himself at Bombay ; but ineffectually. In 1667-8, the revenue had in- 
creased to £6490 ; the garrison was 285 men, of which number 93 were English- 
men ; the rest Portugueze, French, and natives. 

On the 23d September, 1668, Bombay was taken possession of for the East 
India Company by Sir George Oxinden, the Company’s chief governor, and the 
troops were, transferred from the King’s to the Company’s service, along with 
the arms, ordnance, and stores. Sir George died on the 14th of July, 1669, and 
was succeeded by Mr. Gerald Augier, as chief of Surat and governor of Bom- 
bay, which continued extremely unhealthy, and much molested by* the depre- 
dations of Maharatta pirates. In 1672-3 a strong Dutch fleet appeared off 
Bombay and created much alarm ; but after reconnoitring, it disappeared with- 
out making any attack. In the succeeding year there were 100 pieces of can- 
non mounted on the fortifications, and the garrison consisted of 400 regulars, of 
which the greater part were topasses, and 300 militia. In 1676, letters patent 
were obtained from the King to establish a mint at Bombay, at which they were 
empowered to coin rupees, pice, and budgerooks. 

Mr. Augier died in 1667, and was succeeded at Bombay by Mr. Henry Oxin- 
den. At this time Bombay continued of very little political or commercial im- 
portance, which in part proceeded from the vigorous government of Aurengzebe 
on the Delhi throne, and the rising power of the Maharattas under the martial 
Sevajee. In 1679, the island of Henery was occupied by the troops of Sevajee, 
and the beginning of next year the island of Kenery was seized by the Siddee 
or Mogul admiral ; the Bombay government not daring to oppose either, and 
being kept from their proximity in a continued state of alarm. In 1681, Mr. 
John Child, the brother of Sir Josiah Child, was appointed president of Surat, 
one of the junior counsellors being appointed to act as deputy governor of Bom- 
bay. In 1683-4, in consequence of the capture of Bantam by the Dutch, the 
Court of directors constituted Bombay an independent English settlement, , and 
tile seat of die power and trade of the English nation in the East Indies. 

On the 23d of December, 1683, Captain Richard Kegwin, who commanded 
die Company's garrison, assisted by Ensign Thompson and others, seized on Mr. 
Ward, the deputy governor, and such members of council as adhered to him, 
and assumed the government. The garrison, consisting of 150 English soldiers, 
, y 2 



164 the PROVINCE i»au*AT. 

and 200 topasses, were joined by the inhabitants of the island, who elected Cap- 
tain Kegwin governor, and declared they would only acknowledge the Kilfgll 
authority, although, in the interval betwixt the acquisition of the island and 
this period, the East India Company had expended £800*000 at Bombay, on 
fortifications and improvements. In 1684-5, Captain Kegwin negotiated a treaty 
with Raja Sambajee, from whom he recovered 12,000 pagodas due to the Com- 
pany ; and on the 19th of November, 1684, he surrendered the island to Sit 
Thomas Grantham, on condition of a general pardon for himself and his adherents. 
He had not, it afterwards appeared, embezzled any of the Company’s money in 
the fort, which was restored to them entire, but had subsisted during his rebellion 
on the revenues of the island. 

In 1686, the seat of the English government was ordered to be transferred 
from Surat to Bombay, and next year, Sir John Child dying, the office of pre- \ 
sident devolved on Mr.. Harris, then a prisoner at Surat, but liberated by the 
Mogul government next year. In 1688-9, the Siddee’s fleet (Mogul admiral’s) 
invaded Bombay, and got possession of Mahim, Mazagong, and Sion, and kept 
the governor and garrison besieged in the castle. An order was soon after ob- 
tained from Aurengzebe, directing the Siddee to withdraw his troops ; but the 
evacuation did not take place until the 22d June, 1690, when the lands belong- 
ing to the Portugueze Jesuits were seized, they having been active in promoting 
the views of the Siddee during the invasion. In 1691-2, the population of Bom- 
bay was much reduced by the plague ; so that of the civil servants only three 
remained alive. In 1694, Sir Joshua Gayer arrived as governor at Bombay, 
which he found in a most disastrous state, principally caused by the depreda- 
tions of the English pirates on the Mogul ships, Aurengzebe insisting that all 
the loss sustained by bis subjects should be made good by the East India Com- 
pany. These pirates in 1698 possessed two frigates of 30 guns, off Cape Co- 
morin under Capt. Kidd, who was afterwards taken and hanged ; onfe of 50 guns* 
one of 40, and one of 30 guns, off the Malabar coast. 

In 1698-9, Sir Nicholas Waite was appointed resident at Surat, on the part of 
the new, or English East India Company; and in 1700, by his intrigues,, pro- 
cured the imprisonment of Sir John Gayer and Mr. Colt, the old or London Com- 
pany s servants. At this, time Bombay was in a very weakly state, and under 
constant alarm of invasion from the Maharattas, Arabs, and Portugueze. In 
1702-3, it was again visited by the plague, which carried off many hn»dmAi of 
the natives, and reduced the garrison to 76 men. In 1708, the two rival com- 
panies having united. Sir Nicholas Waite was dismissed,, but Sir John Gayer, the 
legitimate governor, still continuing in confinement at Surat, Mr. 
appointed, and such was the continued feebleness of the settlement, that tfco 



Bombay.} OP AURANGABAD. 165 

government olf Bombay, this year, declined receiving an envoy from the King of 
Persia* for fear he should observe the weakness of the place* both by sea and 
land. With the junction of the rival East India Companies*. Mr. Bruce's au- 
thentic narrative concludes, and no documents have been discovered to fill up 
the intervening period until A. D. 1748. From that date* the following gover- 
nors occupied the chair ; but the necessity of condensation does not permit the 
insertion of any historical details : — 

Governors * Assumed the Government . Quitted it . 

William Wake* Esq 1748 . . 17th Nov. 1750. 

Richard Bourchier* Esq. . 19th Nov. 1750 . . 27th Feb. 1760. 

Charles Crommelin* Esq. . 27th Feb. 1760 . . 27th Jan. 1767. 

Thomas Hodges* Esq. . . 28th Sep. 1767. . . 23d Feb. 1771. 

William Hornby, Esq. . . 25th Feb. 1771 . . 1st Jan. 1784. 

Rawson Hart Boddam, Esq. 1st Jan. 1784 . . 9th Jan. 1788. 

Alexander Ramsay, Esq. . 9th Jan. 1788 . . 6th Sep. 178^. 

Major General Medows . 6th Sep. 1788 . . 21st Jan. 1790. 

Sir Robert Ambercromby 21st Jan. 1790 . . 28th Oct. 1793. 

George Dick, Esq. . . . Nov. 1793 . . 5th Sep 1795. 

John Griffiths, Esq. . . 6th Sep. 1795 . . 27th Dec. 1795. 

Jonathan Duncan, Esq. . 27th Dec. 1795 • died 11th Aug. 1811. 

George Brown, Esq. . . 11th Aug. 1811 . . 12th Aug, 1812. 

Sir Evan Nepean ... 12th Aug. 1812 ' 

On the 7th October, 1818, the Honourable Mountstuart Elphinstone was ap- 
pointed Governor of Bombay, to take charge of the government on the 1st of 
November, 1819, or on the previous death, resignation, or departure of Sir Evan 
Nepean. 

At present, Bombay may be said to rule the whole western coast of India, and 
its influence is felt along the shores of Persia and Arabia ; but the territorial 
possessions under its immediate jurisdiction are small, compared with those of 
Bengal and Madras. They consist principally of the districts of Kaira, Surat, 
and Broach, and other territories extending along both sides of the gulf of Cam- 
bay, most of which were obtained since 1802, from Anund Row Guicowar, a 
Maharatta prince* and the whole are contained within the Gujerat province, of 
which they compose by fax the most fertile, highly cultivated and populous por- 
tion. The inhabitants of this region are among the most intelligent and indus- 
trious of Hindostan, and from hence large quantities of cotton manufactures are 
exported to all parts* of the world. From these districts also a great export of 
the raw material takes place* partly the produce of the lands within the influ- 
ence of the British government, and partly from the interior on the large naviga- 
ble rivfefs, such as the Nerbudda, Tuptee, Mahy, and Mehindry, which* with 



166 THE PROVINCE [bombay. 

many others of smaller note, empty their streams into the gulf of Cambay and 
the Indian Ocean. The principal sea port towns are Surat, Broach, Cambay, 
Bhownuggur, Gogo, Poorbunder, and Mandavie (in Cutch), from which, collec- 
tively are procured, the best native seamen in India, especially along the west 
side ot the gulf of Cambay, where the natives are much addicted to navigation. 
To the above may be added the islands of Salsette, Oorun, and the small 
stripes of land attached to forts Victoria and Vingorla in the Concan. It is 
difficult with any precision to define the superficial extent of the Bombay ter- 
ritorial possessions, as some of the Guicowar s and Peshwa's districts are inter-, 
mingled with them, and approach within a few miles of the city of Surat. The 
countries subject to the immediate jurisdiction of the British laws and regula-\ 
tions do not probably occupy more than 6000 squares miles, but the extent of 
territory indirectly under British influence is immense, the whole of the Poona 
dominions having recently been acquired by conquest. 

In 1813, the annual revenue of the Bombay Presidency was as follows: — 

Land revenues 4,077,037 

Customs and duties . . . 1,285,646 
Farms and licences . . . 1,057,886 


Total revenue 6,420,569 rupees 

An account of the annual revenues and charges of Bombay for the year 1816-17. 

Mint duties 18,835 rupees. 

Post office collections 58,447 

Judicial fees, fines, &c 19,392 

Farms and licences of exclusive privileges .... 576,622 

Customs of ancient possessions 1,277,074 

Land revenues of ditto „ 404,058 

Land revenues, customs, &c. of districts ceded by 

Guicowar 1,895,260 

Ditto ditto of districts ceded by and con- 
quered from the Maharattas 3,069,602 

Marine : receipts for hire of docks, mooring chains, &c. 328,752 


(£860,404 st. at 2s. 3d. per rupee.) Total 7,648,042 

■ ■' ■ 

Charges. 

Mint charges 16,780 rupees 

Post office charges 26,185 


Charges of the civil establishment 982,872 


Total 1,025,837 



Bombay,] OF AURUNGABAD. 167 

Judicial charges of the ancient possessions, viz. : — 

Recorder's court and law charges 170,041 rupees 

Charges of the sudder and zillah courts and police . 295,524 


Total judicial 465,565 
Charges of collecting customs of ancient possessions 145,866 


Ditto revenues of ditto 448,792 

Districts ceded by the Guicowar : charges collecting 

the revenues and customs ; judicial, &c. charges 223,539 

Districts ceded by and conquered from the Maharat- 

ditto, ditto, ditto 273,835 

Military charges 13,305,210 

Buildings and fortifications 251,834 

Marine oharges 770,282 

(£1,902,460 str. at 2s. 3d. per rupee.) Total 16,910,760 

The estimated revenues of the Bombay presi- 
dency for 1817-8, amounted to . . £1,155,703 

And the estimated charges to .... 2,281,958 


Estimated excess of charges for 1817-8 £1,126,255 

The territorial debts at Bombay, on the 31st Jan. 1818, 

bearing interest, amounted to £513,019 

Ditto ditto not bearing interest . % . . 254,070 

Total £767,089 

In 1813, the charges defrayed by the East India Company for the manage- 
ment of their trade at Bombay, so far as they could be distinguished from the 
civil and other charges respectively, for the presidency and subordinate stations 
amounted to 254,456 rupees. 

The revenue of the island of Bombay for the year 1812, was : — 

Land revenue 63,260 

Sayer, or variable imposts .... 234,512 

Salt 10,074 

Customs 726,302 


Rupees 1,042,148 



168 THE PROVINCE [bokbat. 

In 1811, the number of civil servants on the Bombay establishment was ,74; 
in 1818 they had increased to 106. The principal civil officersare the following : 

< . A court of appeal and circuit at Bombay. 

A judge and magistrate at Salsette. 

A judge and magistrate, and also a collector, at Broach. 

Ditto ditto at Kaira. 

Ditto \' ditto at Surat. 

A commercial resident at Cambay. 

A resident at Baroda. 

Ditto at Fort Victoria (or Bancoote). 

Ditto at Malwan. 

A custom master at Mahim. 

In 1811, the Bombay regular army of all descriptions amounted to 20,988 
men, and the European officers to 549 ; in 1818, the latter had increased to 660. 
In the Bombay army a very great proportion of the sepoys come from the Ma- 
haratta country, ,in whole families together, and mixing but little with the other 
sects, still retain their native language. 

A court of judicature is held at Bombay by a single judge, with the title of 
recorder, the authority and practice of this court being altogether conformable 
to those of the supreme court at Calcutta. The law practitioners of this court 
are three barristers, and eight attomies. That few crimes of magnitude occur at 
Bombay, is proved by a statement made in open court by Sir James Macintosh, 
the recorder, in May 1810, that for six years prior to that period, he never had 
had occasion to condemn any criminal to the punishment of death. Petty 
crimes, however, are of very frequent occurrence, the number of persons con* 
victed between the 10th of June, 1812, and the 24th of January, 1814, amount* 
ing to no less than 807 ; of whom. 86 were for wounding, beating, and assault- 
ing ; 407 for theft, and 191 for vagrancy. In their report on this occasion, the 
police magistrates describe Bombay as the resort of the vagrants and unprinci- 
pled of every province from the mouths of the Indus to Goa, who are m ere so* 
journera/for thieving purposes, and immediately withdraw to the continent to 
realize their plunder and convert^ into cash. In 1813, the famine which pre- 
vailed, throughout Ajmeer, Gujerat, and Cutch.had caused an increased influx of 
vice, profligacy, and poverty from these regions. 

The dawk, or post, requires 20 days to convey a letter from Calcutta to Bom- 
bay, a distance as the messengers now travel of from 1100 to 1200 mil— , To 
accelmte the communication of intelligence, a plan was proposed in 1814, by 

r. i jam Boyce, for establishing a telegraphic communication between thfjft 
, two presidencies. In prosecution of this object, he proposed to erect wooden 



sion.] OF AURUNGABAD. 169 

towers 18 feet square, and 30 feet high, at certain distances, and estimated the 
expense of the whole at 172,500 rupees. In addition to this, there would have 
been the annual expenditure for the establishment at each station, which might 
however have been partly defrayed by allowing merchants the occasional use of 
it, on payment of an adequate sum. The principal difficulty was, the danger to 
which the several telegraphic stations would be exposed from the assaults of 
plunderers, who might be induced to attack and destroy them with the view of 
concealing their own motions. Although the scheme was favourably thought of, 
both by the Bombay presidency and the supreme government, it has never been 
carried into execution, and certainly the increased celerity could only be of im- 
portance during the exigencies of some very dangerous warfare. 

Travelling distance from Calcutta, 1300 miles from Delhi, 965 ; from Hyde- 
rabad, 480; from Madras, 770; from Poona, 98; from Seringapatam, 620 ; and 
from Surat, 177 miles. — (Lord Valcntia, Bruce, Lieutenant Hawkins, Warden, M. 
Graham, Public Documents, Moore, Elmore, $c. Sfc.) 

Mahim. — A small town situated near the northern extremity of the island of 
Bombay. Lat. 19° 2' N. long. 72° 58' E. At this place there is the tomb of a 
Mahommedan saint, with a mosque attached to it. Here is also a Portugueze 
church, to which is annexed a college for Roman Catholic priests, but such 
as pretend to learning usually study at Goa, where they learn to speak barbarous 
Latin. A small premium is given at the church for every child that is baptized; 
consequently, a number of native women present their children for that pur- 
pose. In 1816, Mahim, Worley, and the dependant villages, contained 15,618 in- 
habitants. — ( M '. Graham , fyc.) 

Maz agong ( Mahcsa-grama ). — A Portugueze village on the island of Bombay, 
where there is a good dock for small ships, and also two tolerably handsome 
Roman Catholic churches. The mangoes produced here are so famous for their 
excellence, that they were formerly sent to Delhi during the reign of Shah 
Jehan. 

Sion. — A small town and fort on the island of Bombay, about eight miles 
from the presidency, at the opposite extremity of the island. Fort Sion is placed 
on the top of a small conical hill, where it commands the passage from Bombay 
to the neighbouring island of Salsette, and was of importance while the Mahar 
rattas possessed that island. At the foot of the little hill of Sion is the causeway 
or vellard, built by Mr. Duncan, across a small arm of the sea which separated 
the two islands. It is well constructed of stone, and has a drawbridge in the 
centre. It is too narrow for carriages to pass in bad weather, but it is of great 
advantage to the gardeners and farmers who carry daily supplies of provisions 

vox., n. z 



170 THE PROVINCE [salsette isle. 

to Bombay. This causeway was begun in 1797, and finished in 1805, at an ex- 
pense of 50,575 rupees. — ( Mr, Graham, fyc.) 

'Malabar Point. — A remarkable promontory on the island of Bombay, 
where there is a cleft rock of considerable sanctity, to which numerous Hindoo 
pilgrims resort for the purpose of regeneration, which is effected by passing 
through the aperture. This hole is of considerable elevation, situated among 
rocks of difficult access, and in the stormy season incessantly lashed by the 
surge of the ocean. Near to it are the ruins of a temple, which is reported with 
great probability, to have been blown up by the Hindoo-idol-hating Portuguese. 
In the neighbourhood is a beautiful Brahmin village, built round a fine tank of 
considerable extent, with broad flights of steps down to the water. Brahifiins 
are here found leading the lives most agreeable to them. The ceremonies of Re- 
ligion comprise the business of their lives, and a literary and contemplative in- 
dolence forms their negative pleasure. Some of them are said to have lived here 
to an old age, without having once visited the contiguous town of Bombay. Near 
to this village is a temple of Lakshjni (the goddess of plenty) much resorted to 
by pilgrims and pious persons, who have the additional benefit of optional rege- 
neration offered in the passage through the venerated type above described*— 
( Moore , 8$c.) 

Salsette Isle. — This island belonged to the Mogul province of Aurungabad, 
and was formerly separated from Bombay by a narrow strait, across which a 
causeway has lately been made. In length it may be estimated at 18 miles by 
13 the average breadth. The soil of this island is well adapted for the cultivation 
of indigo, sugar, cotton, flax, and hemp ; but much the greater part of it most 
unaccountably remains in a desolate uncultivated state, and almost wholly 
covered with jungle, although in the vicinity of so rich a market as Bombay. 
This circumstance, however, has not the same tendency to promote improve- 
ment in India that it has in Europe, the most savige part of Bengal being with- 
in 20 miles of Calcutta, and wholly uninhabited. If the system of management, 
however, hadbeeii good, it is hardly possible to conceive that a settlement pos- 
sessing so many natural advantages, and after enjoying for 45 years the benefits 
of British protection, should be so little advanced in prosperity. Under its pre- 
sent circumstances the island of Salsette is still mpre unhealthy than Bombay, 
the jungle being thicker and the vallies more shut in. 

The most substantial improvement that has yet 'taken* place with respect to 
this island, is the causeway which connects it with Bombay* completed by Mr* 
Duncan in 1805, although it is said to have had a prejudicial effect on the her* 
bour of that town. A guard is constantly kept at the causeway to pie wit the 



salsette isle.] OF AURUNGABAD. 171 

introduction of contraband articles ; for Salsette, although under the British go- 
vernment, is still subject to most of the Maharatta regulations in fiscal matters. 
The formation of roads had long been an object of consideration with the Bom- 
bay presidency, and in 1815 the construction of them was in progress from Ban- 
dorah to Gorabunder, traversing the centre and longest diameter of the island 
about 19 miles. The Tanna road was estimated to have cost 7000 rupees per 
mile, exclusive of the assistance derived from the government pioneers. The 
expense of completing the road above mentioned, from Marole to Gorabunder, 
if executed by the pioneer corps, without including the regimental pay of the 
European officers, the charge for tools and implements, or other articles, such as 
gunpowder, charcoal, steel, iron, or the maintenance of the convicts, was in 1815 
estimated at 194,952 rupees. 

While the total amount of the same, if performed by con- 
tract, *only 66,221 

Difference . . . 128,731 

Notwithstanding its present jungly condition, Salsette is remarkably rich in 
mythological antiquities, and the remains of tanks, terraces, and flights of steps 
around them, indicate a former state of prosperity, and the collection of a con- 
siderable population. At Kenneri, on this island, there are several very extraor- 
dinary caverns excavated : the largest resembles that at Casli, but is inferior in 
size and elegance. Its peculiar ornaments are two gigantic figures of Buddha, 
nearly 20 feet high, and each filling one side of the vestibule. They are exactly 
alike and in perfect preservation, in consequence of their having been adopted 
and painted red by the Portugueze, who transformed the temple of Buddha into 
a Christian church. On the sea- coast above high water mark, extensive enclo- 
sures are levelled and divided into partitions of about 20 feet square, which are 
filled by the overflowing of the sea, and contain six or eight inches of water. 
Before the next spring tide all the fluidity is exhaled by the heat of the sun, 
and the salt is gathered from die bottom of the enclosure, and afterwards fur- 
ther refined. A little salt of a superior kind is procured at the time of the exha- 
lation, by fixing a jagged piece of stick in the water when first let into the re- 
servoirs, to which, as the water evaporates, saline particles adhere, to the weight 
of three or four ounces. The finest kind of gait used in the west of India for 
the t$ble comes from Arabia, in pieces not unlike a cheese in shape, and sparkling 
in appearance like a sugar loaf. 

This island* named by Europeans, Salsette, is by the natives called Jhalta, or 
Shaster, the derivation qf which is uncertain. It was long possessed by the 

z2 



THE PROVINCE 


172 THE PROVINCE [SAMETTE ISM. 

Portugueze, but was wrested from them by the Maharattas about 1750. In 1773, 
during a rupture with that nation, the Company’s troops obtained possession of 
it, and it was formally ceded by the Maharattas at the treaty of Poorunder, in 
1776, subsequently confirmed at the peace of 1782 — 3, when all the small 
islands in the gulf formed by Bombay and Salsette were also acquired. Since 
that period it has enjoyed the most profound peace, but has as yet contributed 
very little to the supply of the capital, although so eagerly, and not very honestly 
sought after. j 

The population of Salsette is estimated by the missionaries at about 50,000 
persons, of which number probably one-fifth are Christians. These are profes-* 
sedly members of the Portugueze church, and a few of the most respectable are 
the remains of the Portugueze families which settled on 'the island. The lower 
orders consist of fishermen, cultivators of the land, and drawers . of toddy. 
These, as may be supposed, are indifferent Christians, who, whilst they are in 
the habit of attending a Christian sanctuary, still retain in their houses many 
symbols of the Hindoo mythology, and continue addicted to many pernicious 
usages of that superstition. Besides the native Christians of Salsette, there are 
resident at Tanna, the capital of the island, about 100, or more, European sol- 
diers with their families, who have been invalided, or who have retired from the 
service, and who prefer spending the remainder of their lives in India to return- 
ing to their native countries. The inhabitants of Salsette generally are so quiet 
and tractable a race, that in 1813, it was stated by the magistrate, that for more 
than two years no native of the island had been committed for trial, the only 
cases brought before the court during that period having been crimes per- 
petrated by native inilitary officers and soldiers. Petty quarrels and assaults 
were frequent, originating from too liberal potations of intoxicating liquors, to 
which the natives are much attached, and which are unfortunately both cheap 
and abundant. It is difficult to say what is the dialect of this island, for the in* 
habitants being composed of many different nations, their transactions are carried 
on in the English, Portugueze, Maharatta, Concanese, Hindostany, and Guje- 
ratty, iii all of which mortgages, deeds of sale and partnership, and accounts 
current are occasionally kept and registered. Most of the pleadings before the 
judge have hitherto been carried on in the English language, that most frequently 
used for colloquial purposes is the corrupt jargon named Concanese. The re- 
venue derived from Salsette in 1813, was as follows: — . 

Land, revenue 129,273 rope**. 

Sayer (variable imposts) ......... 96,191 . 

Customs 10,342 


Total 


235,807, 



ELEPHAKTA ISLE.] OF AURUNGABAD. 173 

After the various endeavours to improve this island that have been made, es- 
pecially by the late Mr. Duncan, whose knowledge and experience in revenue 
matters were so well calculated to mature and introduce a system most likely to 
promote the cultivation of the island, it is not easy to account for its stagnation, 
while the prosperity of every other portion of the British dominions was ad- 
vancing. To. people and cultivate a tract of country under similar circum- 
stances, a moderate land tax, unrestricted leases, and security of possession are 
indispensable. — ( Hallet, Missionaries, Lord Valentia, Warden, S$c. <§*c. 8$c.) 

Tanna ( Thana ). — A town and fortress in the island of Salsette, which com- 
mand the passage (here 200 yards broad) between the island and the Maharatta 
territories in the province of Aurungabad. Lat. 19° 11' N. long. 73° 6' E. 20 
miles N. by E. from Bombay. This place was besieged in 1773 by a detachment 
from Bombay, consisting of 120 European artillery, 200 artillery lascars, 500 
European infantry, and 1000 sepoys, under the command of General Gordon. 
The batteries opened on the 20th of December, and a breach was effected on 
the 24th. While the troops were filling up the ditch over night, with the view 
of storming next day, a heavy fire from the fort obliged them to retire with the 
loss of 100 Europeans, including officers, killed and wounded. On the 28th, the 
town was stormed with but a trifling loss on the part of the assailants, but with 
a dreadful carnage on that of the garrison. On its capture the fortifications were, 
new modelled and improved, and the present fort, although small, is well built, 
strong as a plafce of defence, and always kept in the highest order. It is usually 
garrisoned by a battalion of sepoys, and a company of European artillery from 
Bombay. The town is straggling but not large, has several Portugueze churches, 
and many Cnristian inhabitants. — ( Moore, Forbes, 8$c.) 

Kenneri. — A collection of remarkable caverns excavated in the rocky hills 
of the island of Salsette, one of which had been fitted up by the Portugueze for 
a church, and they consequently thought it their duty to deface aU the moat 
pagan-looking sculptures. At present the fine teak ribs for supporting the roof 
are almost gone, and the portico is not so elegant as that at Carli. On the sides, 
are two gigantic figures, each 25 feet high, standing erect, with their hands close 
to their bodies, .which resemble the figures of Buddha seen at Ceylon* On each 
side of the great cave are smaller ones apparently unfinished. 

Versovah.-— A tawn^on the sea coast of the island of Salsette, 14 miles N* 
from Bombay* L*t, 19*'8' N. long* 72° 54' E. 

Ele?hantA Tele'.— The chief cave temples on the west coast of India, ajp 
those of Elephanfa, Salsette,* Carlj, and Ellora. The 'celebrated caves of Ete- 
phanta are excavated in a beautiful island of that name, called by the natives 



174 THE PROVINCE [caranja isle. 

Garapori, situated in the bay of Bombay, about seven miles from Bombay castle, 
and five from the Maharatta shore. It is composed of two long hills, with a 
narrow valley between them, and is nearly six miles in circumference. The 
usual landing place is towards the south, where the valley is broadest. About 
250 yards to the right of the landing place, on the rising side of one of the hills 
there formerly stood a large and clumsy elephant, cut out of an insulated black 
rock, from which figure the island acquired its European name ; but in Septem- 
ber 1814, the head and neck of the elephant dropped off, and the body has since 
sunk in such a manner as to threaten its fall. 1 

The great temple is about 130 feet long, measuring from the chief entrance to| 
the furthest end of the cave; and 123 feet broad from the eastern to the western' 
entrance. It rests on 26 pillars (eight of them in 1813 broken) and 16 pilasters, 
and neither the roof nor the floor being in one plane, it varies in height from 17 } ' 
to 15 feet. The plan is regular, there being eight pillars and pilasters in a line 
from the northern entrance to the southern extreme, and the same number from 
the eastern to the western entrances. The mythological figures and sculptures 
cannot be rendered intelligible without the assistance of plates, having been 
much defaced by visitors, and by the zeal of the Portugueze, who made war on 
the gods and temples, as well as on the armies of India. Fragments of statues 
Strew the floor, columns deprived of {heir bases adhere to the roof, and there are 
others split and without capitals. All Hindoo deities have particular symbols 
by which they may be distinguished, much as European families may be disco- 
vered by their armorial bearings. The excavations of Kenneri and Carli evi- 
dently belong to the Buddhists; those of Elephantaand Amboli to the Brahmins; 
while Ellora possesses excavations of both classes. The cave here is not now in 
use as a temple, nor is it a place of pilgrimage or possessed of any sacerdotal 
establishment, although individuals from the neighbourhood, make occasional 
offerings of prayers and oblations. Considering the pains bestowed on it, it 
must at some period of time have been held in greater estimation, and the Brah- 
mins in general disregard imperfect or mutilated images. Nothing, however, 
presents itself among these excavations that can lead to a satisfactory solution of 
the important and curious question — In what age and by what tribe or dynasty 
was this vast temple completed ? — ( Erskine , Moore, fyc.) 

Caranja Isle (or Oorun ). — An island between Bombay and the main land, 
from which it is separated by a very narrow strait, lat. 86°6fl' N. long. 72 s 
52 E. five ■ miles east from Bombay. To this island, which by the. natives is 
named Oorun, convicts are sent from Bombay, and employed in cleaning 

repairing embankments, and keeping the roads in order. ' 



COLABBA ISLE.] OP AURUNGABAD. 175 

la 1813, the land revenue of Caranja was . . 33,358 rupees. 

Sayer, or variable imposts . 16,518 

Customs 40,919 


Total 90,795 

Total charges against the Caranja revenues were 15,662 

An increased produce of the sayer branch of the revenue took place in the 
above year, which was occasioned by an increased consumption of tobacco, 
snuff, and ganja (an intoxicating drug), and from a higher rate of duty having 
been levied on arrack stills, and lastly from a number of labourers (or Coolies) 
having attained the age which rendered them liable to the poll tax. The ameli- 
oration of the customs was owing to a larger export of grain and salt; and every 
branch of the revenue here had been realized without deduction. The sum 
total indeed seems very large for so small an extent of surface. The salt ma- 
nufactured annually in Caranja is calculated at above 20,000 tons, the whole of 
which, excepting what is consumed on the island, is usually sent to ports be- 
tween Bombay and Cape Comorin, and might also be sent to Bengal, were the 
existing restrictions removed. The salt trade is lucrative to the merchants, and 
yields a revenue of about 11,000 rupees annually to the customs. The article 
is reported to be of a quality greatly superior to any salt manufactured to the 
southward . — ( Public MS. Documents , S$c. fyc.) 

Henery Isle. — A very small island on the west coast of India, lying about 
15 miles south of Bombay. Lat. 18° 41' N. long. 72° 57' E. This islet is about, 
600 yards in circumference, and nearly of a circular form. There is only one 
landing place, which is on the north-east side, where boats can lie. The island 
is well inhabited, being covered with houses and fortifications. In 1790 it 
belonged to Ragojee Angria, and, although in sight of Bombay, was a principal 
rendezvous for pirate vessels of considerable size. 

' Near Henery is another small island named Kennery, which is also fortified 
and of considerable strength. In 1790 it belonged to the Peshwa, who also 
permitted pirates to resort to the harbour. Kenery was taken possession of 
and fortified by Sevajee in October, 1679, before which time, from a supposed 
want of fresh water, it had been neglected. Henery was first settled and for- 
tified by Siddee Cossim in 1680. o < 

.Colabba Ise. — A small island on the west coast of India, about 19 miles 
south of Bombay fort. Lat. 18° 38' N. long. 73° 6' E. Colabba isle an<f another 
named Old Woman’s island are extremely well adapted for the accommodation 
of European troops, not only on account of their natural salubrity, but the 
facility with which intemperance among the military may be prevented. On 



176 THE PROVINCE [baOla*a. 

Colabba there are 30 wells, which are almost all fresh during the rains, but only 
two or three yield good water while the hot months last. On Old Woman’s 
island there are 15 wells, in all of which water is good during the rains, and in 
some of them abundant the whole year through. The village of Calwadda is 
inhabited by fishermen, and consists of 116 huts. 

Among the historical records still extant at Bombay, is to be found the an- 
cient composition entered into between Sir Gerard Augier and the Portugueze 
inhabitants in 1674, on which document the Company’s right to Colabba is 
founded. The non-appropriation of this island to any improved revenue pur- 
pose for so many years, was not owing to any physical imperfection, but to ap 
opinion generally entertained by the Bombay Presidency, that the whole island 
should be reserved for a military cantonment, in consequence of which no 
alienation of land took place for above a century, with the exception of a small 
portion of Old Woman’s island, which by a special grant became freehold pro- 
perty in 1746. Many abstractions have since taken place, and the Company 
have been in many instances obliged to repurchase their own lands at immense 
prices. In 1805, nearly 60,000 rupees were paid for eight houses, including a 
temporary hospital, besides an enormous expenditure for repairs. Of the waste 
ground (as it is called) on the island of Colabba, there remains 42,682 square yards 
on the eastern side of the cantonments, and 265,813 square yards on the western 
side, which are let out from year to year for the cultivation of vegetables. — 

( Captain Thomas Dickenson , 8$c.) 

Baglana ( Bhogelana ). — A large district in the Maharatta portion of the 
.Aurungabad province, situated between the 20th and 21st degrees of north 
latitude. This country is exceedingly mountainous, but contains many fertile 
plains and vallies, and few countries have greater advantages in point of natural 
strength, being studded with fortresses erected on the summits of lofty moun- 
tains. The rivers are small as in all mountainous countries, and there are no 
towns of any great note. 

This is, one of the original Maharatta countries, from whence that tribe first 
sprung into notice, and is still almost wholly possessed by leaders of that nation. 
On account of its natural strength, and the martial habits of its natives, it deed 
not appear that it ever was subdued, either by the Deccanny sovereigns or the 
Moguls. The different Rajas were often reduced* to the last stage of indepen- 
dence, particularly by Aurengzebe ; but a sort of feudal obedience, and a tribute 
extremely irregularly paid, were the utmost tokens of subjection they ever sub- 
mitted to. It was first conquered by the Mahommedans during the reign of 
Sultan Allah ud Deen, A. D. 1296 ; but it was an acquisition they were unable 
to retain. About the year 1500, Baglana was governed by an independent Raja, 



OF AURUNGABAD. 


SAILOOH.] 


177 


who was compelled to become tributary to the Nizam Shahee dynasty of 
Ahmednuggur. This district continued under a nominal sort of subjection to the 
Delhi emperors, until the appearance of Sevajee, the first Maharatta leader, 
when it was among the earliest that revolted, and remained, with various vicissi- 
tudes, under a Maharatta government until 1818. Like most other countries 
subject to that nation, it was not wholly possessed by any one chief, but parti- 
tioned among several, whose territories were greatly intermingled. — ( Ferishta, 
Rennell , &$c. 8$c.) 

Sallier. — A town in the province of Aurungabad, 68 miles E. N.E. from 
Damaun. Lat. 20° 42' N. long. 73° 59' E. 

Sungumnere. — A large district formerly under the Maharatta Peshwa, in the 
province of Aurungabad, situated principally between the 19th and 20th degrees 
of north latitude. This is a hilly but fertile and productive territory, and con- 
tains the sources of the Godavery and its innumerable contributary streams. 
In 1803 it was supposed to yield the Peshwa a revenue of ten lacks per annum. 
The chief towns are Sungumnere, Trimbuck, Nassuck, and Beylahpoor 

Sungumnere. — The capital of the above district, is situated in lat. 19° 21' N. 
long. 74° 24' E. 73 miles N. N. E. from Poona. 

Nassuck. — A place of Hindoo pilgrimage on the Godavery, 100 miles north 
from Poona. Lat. 19° 56' N. long. 73° 5G' E. 

Numoonee. — A town in the Aurungabad province, 72 miles W. by S. from 
'he city of Aurungabad. Lat. 19° 41' N. long. 74° 23' E. 

Mhokeir. — A town in the province of Aurungabad, 71 miles west from the 
city. Lat. 19° 58'' N. long. 74° 29' E. 

Trimbuck. — A strong fortress situated near the source of the Godavery, 
which in 1818 surrendered to a detachment under Lieutenant Colonel Macdowal, 
after a bombardment. Lat. 20° 1' N. long. 73° 42' E. 87 miles S. S. E. from 
Surat. 

Dowletabap. — A large district mostly comprised in the Nizam s dominions 
in the province of Aurungabad 'situated About tne 20th degree of north latitude. 
Respecting the interior of this formerly important portion of Hindostan, we 
have scarcely any information, although for many years a large military detach- 
ment has been stationed at Jalna, in its immediate neighbourhood. The prin- 
cipal towns are Aurungabad, Dowletabad, (already described), and Phoolmurry ; 
the chief streams the Godavery and Sewna. 

Phoolmurry . — A town in the province of Aurungabad, 17 miles north front 
the city of that name. Lat. 20° 7 N. long. 75° 38' E. 

Sailoor.— A town in the province of Aurungabad, 35 miles N. N. E. from 
the city of that name. Lat 20° 18' N. long. 75° 52' E. 

vot. XI. A A 



178 THE PROVINCE [pekbainda. 

Jalnapoor (Jalnapura ). — A district belonging to the Nizam, in the province 
of Aurangabad, situated between the 19th and 20th degrees of north latitude* 
The principal towns are Jalna, Budnapoor, and Findka; the chief streams* the 
Poorna and the Doodna, At the peace with the Maharattas in 1803, this terri- 
tory was ceded to the British government, and afterwards by the latter, in 1804, 
transferred to the misgovernment of the Nizam. 

Jalna. — The capital of the above district, situated in latitude 19° 52' N. 
long. 76° 8' E. 40 miles east from the city of Aurangabad. It was taken from 
the Maharattas by the army under Colonel Stevenson in 1803, and is nowj the 
head quarters of a strong brigade. It is divided by a small river, on one sine of 
which is a town, and on the other a town with a fort. — (1th and 12 th Rqjw- 
tei's , tyc .) 

Findka — A town in the province of Aurangabad, 15 miles N. E. from Jalna. 
Lat. 19°59'N. long. 76° 19' E. 

Budnapoor. — A town in the province of Aurangabad, 26 miles E. from the 
city of that name. Lat. 19° 54' N. long. 75° 57' E. 

Munta. — A town in the province of Aurangabad, 34 miles S. E. from Jalna. 
Lat. 19° 4V N. long. 76° 37' E. 

Bheer. — A small district in the Nizam’s dominions, in the province of Auran- 
gabad, situated about the 19th degree of north latitude. This is a hilly tract of 
country, thinly peopled, and ill governed. It is intersected by two small 
streams, the Sindpunna and Koondya. Bheer, the principal town, stands in 
lat. 19° 1' N. long. 75° 58' E. 70 miles east from Ahmednuggur. 

Sumba. — A town in the Aurungabad province, 53 miles E. by N. from Ah- 
mednuggur. Lat. 19° 13' N. long. 75° 53' E. 

Futtehabad. — A district forming part of the Nizam’s dominions, in the pro- 
vince of Aurungabad, situated between the 18th and 19th degrees of north lati- 
tude. The principal towns are Dafoor, (the capital), Cullum, and Latoor : the 
chief rivers, the Manjera, which traverses the country, and the Tierna. 

Daroor. — A town in the Aurungabad province, 90 miles S. E. from the city 
of Aurungabad. Lat. 18° 49' N. long. 76° 19' E. 

Cullum. — A town in the province of Aurungabad, 95 miles S. E. from Ahmed- 
nuggur. Lat. 18° 35' N. long. 76° 15' E. 

Perrainda. — A district in the province of Aurungabad, situated between 
the 18th and 19th degrees of north latitude. This is comparatively a populous 
and well cultivated country, and is intersected by the Seena and Beema rivers, 
and their tributary streams. The principal towns are Perrainda, Kurmulla, 
Maunkaiseer, and Kurdla. 

Perrainda. — A large town with a stone fort, both much decayed, in the 



OF AURUNGABAD. 


LI MB A.] 


179 


province of Aurangabad, the capital of the preceding district, situated in lat. 
18° 18' N. long. 75° 44' E. 70 miles S. E. from Ahmednuggur. 

Maunkaiseer. — A town in the province of Aurangabad, 74 miles S. E. 
from Ahmednuggur. Lat. 18° 22' N. long. 75° 43' E. 

Kurmxlla (or Carmulla). — This is a considerable town with a stone fort, 
which has a double wall and a ditch between them. A long ditch also surrounds 
the outer wall. Lat. 18° 24' N. long. 75° 21' E. 55 miles S. S. E. from Ahmed- 
nuggur. — ( Upton , §c.) 

Kurd la. — A fort in the province of Aurangabad, surrounded on all sides by 
hills, and accessible to the west by a pass. Lat. 18° 37' N. long. 75° 41' E. 59 
miles S. E. from Ahmednuggur. In 1795, the late Nizam made here a disgrace- 
ful peace with the Maharattas. 

Seena River. —This river has its source about 20 miles W. N. W. from Ah- 
mednuggur, from whence it flows in a south-easterly direction, and after a wind- 
ing course of about 200 miles falls into the Beema, the bulk of which it nearly 
doubles by the accession of its waters. 

Solapoor (Salapura). — A district in the province of Aurangabad, situated 
at the south-eastern extremity, between the 17th and 18th degrees of north lat. 
This territory is fertile and well irrigated, but is little known. It is traversed 
from north to south by the Seena river, and bounded on the west by the Beema. 
The principal towns are Solapoor and Inhole. 

Solapoor, — The capital of the above district, stands 65 miles N. by E. from 
the ancient city of Bejapoor. Lat. 17° 40' N. long. 76° 3' E. The outward 
pettah of Solapoor was taken by a detachment under General Munro, but the 
body of the place did not surrender until the 14th of May, 1818, after an obsti- 
nate defence, having stood three days bombardment, and the opening of the 
breaching batteries. The British casualties amounted to 100 killed and 
wounded. About the same time, the Peshwas remaining infantry amounting 
to 5000 men, with 600 horse, were completely defeated and dispersed by Gene- 
ral Pritzler, with the loss of 700 killed and wounded. 

Taimboorny. — A town in the province of Aurangabad, 97 miles E. S. E. from 
Poona. Lat. 18° N. long. 75° 23' E. 

Ahmednuggur. — A large district in the province of Aurangabad, situated 
about the I9th degree of north latitude. It is intersected by the Seena river, 
and bounded on the south-west by the Beema. The chief towns are Ahmed- 
nuggur (already described), Jaiwur, Chamargoonda, Teesgaong, and Naundoor. 

Limba. — A town in the province of Aurangabad, 22 miles N. by E. from 
Ahmednuggur, Lat. 19° 2 T N. long. 75° 6' E. 

A A 2 



180 THE PROVINCE [jookse*. 

Naundoor. — A town in the province of Aurungabad, 42 miles S. by W. from 
the city of that name. Lat. 19° 20' N. long. 75° 17' E. 

Teesgaon. — A town in the Aurungabad province, 28 miles N, E. from Ah- 
mednuggur. — Lat. 19° 13' N. long. 75° 18' E. 

Rahowree. — A town in the province of Aurungabad, 20 miles N. from Ah- 
mednugger. Lat. 19° 22' N. long. 74° 53' N. 

Chamargoonpa. — A town in the province of Aurungabad, 56 miles E. by N. 
from Poona. Lat. 18° 40' N. long. 74° 15' E. j 

Chobyneemgaon. — A town in the province of Aurungabad, 28 miles SJ^E. 
from Ahmednuggur. Lat. 18° 49' N. long. 75° 15' E. 

MooNGirv.—A large town on the Godavery, 36 miles S. by E. from the city 
of Aurungabad. Lat. 19° 23' N. long. 75° 4T E. 

Peyton. — A town and small district, in the province of Aurungabad, situated 
on the north bank of the Godavery, 32 miles south from the city of Aurungabad. 
Lat. 19° 26' N. long. 75° 35' E. 

Soonkaur. — A town in the province of Aurungabad, 27 miles south from 
the city of that name. Lat. 19° 31' N. long. 75° 36' E. 

Shawgur. — A town in the province of Aurungabad, situated on the north 
bank of the Godavery, 42 miles S. E. from the city of Aurungabad, Lat. 
19° 23' N. long. 75° 56' N. 

Umber. — A town in the province of Aurungabad, 35 miles S. E. from the 
city of Aurungabad. Lat. 19° 38' N. long. 76° 2' E. This town, with the small 
territory attached to it, although situated far in the interior of the Nizam’s do- 
minions, until the treaty of Mundessor in 1818, belonged to Holcar; and was 
governed by his officers. 

Jooneer (or Soonur). — A strong hilly district, in the province of Aurunga- 
bad, containing Poona, the Maharatta metropolis. It is situated between the 
18th and 19th degrees of north latitude. Besides Poona, the principal towns 
are Jooneer, Chinchoor, Beylah, and Moreishwar ; the chief streams, the Beerna, 
the Yaiie, the Indrani, the Moota, and the Moola ; the hill forts and strong po- 
sitions capable of being rendered nearly impregnable, are almost innumerable. 
During the rupture with the Peshwa in 1818, six hill fortresses in this district, 
each of which might have been defended for months, were captured by the de- 
tachment under Major Eldridge in the course of nine days. Jooneer (or Soo- 
nur) and Bursur were abandoned on the approach of the brigade : Chowan, 
and Joodun, only stood a few hours bombardment : Hurchunderghur and Koor 
jurghur were forsaken by the garrisons as soon as the detachment began to as- 
cend the mountains on which they are situated. Until these fortresses were 



OF AURUNGABAD. 


KOONJURGHUR.] 


181 


taken possession of, their strength was unknown, being, as far as nature is con* 
cerned, almost impregnable. — ( Public Journals , 8$c.) 

Jooneer (or Soonur ). — The original capital of the above district, situated 
about 48 miles N. from Poona. Lat. 19° 12' N. long. 74° 10' E. During the 
reign of Madhoorow, the ex-Peshwa, Bajerow, and his brother, Chimnajee 
Appa, were confined in the fortress of Jooneer, which, notwithstanding its great 
natural strength, was in 1818 abandoned by the garrison to a Bombay detach- 
ment under Major Eldridge, without resistance. The fort has seven gates of 
masonry, one within the other, and contains the ruins of many buildings of Ma~ 
hommedan origin, as well as Hindoo excavations. Among the first are a mau- 
soleum to the memory of a Mahommedan lady, an eedgah and mosque, all in 
good repair, and the the last built over a large reservoir cut out of the solid 
rock. The excavations into the face of the perpendicular rock on which the fort 
stands, must have required much labour and great perseverance. Some of 
these resemble monks’ cells ; and one has the form of a temple, 60 feet by 40, 
the ceiling of which appears to have been painted in compartments. In the 
neighbouring mountains there are said to be other excavated temples, adorned 
with figures of a colossal size. When captured, the fort only contained 28 
pieces of ordnance, mostly brass, fantastically carved and decorated with figures 
of birds and fish, and having wings and fins at the sides instead of trun- 
nions. — ( Public Journals , S$c, §c.) 

Beylah. — A town in the province of Aurungabad, 29 miles west from Ah- 
mednuggur. Lat. 19° 8' N. long. 74° 28' E. 

IIurreecuunder Ghur. — A hill fortress, in the province of Aurungabad, 
70 miles E. N. E. from Bombay. Lat 19° 18' N. long. 73° 56' E. 

Joodhun. — T his hill' fort stands on the Ghaut mountains facing the western 
declivity, and it is said, that on the S. W. side a stone dropped from the hand 
jwould almost fall 2000 feet. Midway down the mountain, a level runs out for 
|00 yards, after which it becomes as precipituous as it is above. From the edge 

this small level, a natural pillar of rock rises, at least 300 feet high, over- 
looking the abyss below. In ascending to the fort, the last flight consists of 240 
ttteps, each one foot and a half high, and almost perpendicular. Lat. 19° 1*4' N. 
|oi ig. 73° 7 ' E. 62 miles E. N. E. from Bombay. — ( Public Journals , §c.) 


I Pauwull. — A town in the province of Aurungabad, 28 miles N. by E. from 
Poona. Lat. 18° 50' N. long. 74° 14' E. 

I Koqnjurghur. — This hill fortress is encircled by mountains, and cannot be 
approached by a military force from the south, except on foot. The narrow 
path by which access is obtained is carried over hills, up deep glens, and along 
phe ridges of mountains, covered with clumps of forest trees and shrubs. Lat. 
id 0 23' N. long. 74° 5' E. 77 miles N. E. from Bombay. 



182 THE PROVINCE. [correoauk, 

Hursur. — The hiB fort of Hursur is situated west of Jooneer, and is remark- 
able for the labour bestowed on one of its gates, and the ascent up to it. 

' Seroor. — The cantonments of the subsidiary force formerly stationed in the 
Peshwa s dominions, 40 miles N. E. from Poona. Lat. 18° 50" N. long. 74°35'E. 
Although only a small -village when first selected for a military station, it soon 
became a place of considerable magnitude, and in 1818 extended a mile and a 
half along the foot of a hill, which it then became necessary to fortify. Before 
the rupture with the Peshwa, two battalions were usually stationed at his Capi- 
tal, which were periodically relieved from Seroor, the head quarters of^the 
brigade. — ( Fitzclarence , <§r. ) ^ 

Kvrraij. — A town of some strength in the late Peshwa’s dominions, 39 miles 
N. E. from Poona. Lat. 18° 45' N. long. 74° 35' E. It was taken by a detach- 
ment under Colonel Deacon, in February, 1818. 

Corregaum.— A village situated on the N. E. side of the Beema river, 17 
miles E. N. E. from Poona. Lat. 18° 37' N. long. 74° 16' E. It is composed 
of a number of houses with stone walls round the gardens, and but for the want 
of water, which can only be had from the river, is very defensible. A detach- 
ment of British troops, consisting of a detail of the Madras artillery, the 2d 
battalion 1st regiment of Bombay native infantry, and about 300 auxiliary horse, 
were attacked here on the 31st of December, 1817, by the army of the Peshwa, 
estimated at 20,000 horse, and several thousand infantry, mostly Arabs. A most 
desperate struggle ensued between this handful of men and the whole army of 
Bajerow, under his personal command, he viewing them from a height. The 
action commenced a little before noon, and was not over until nine in the even- 
ing ; during the whole of which time the British troops remained not only with- 
out food, but without water. By the evening, all the European officers had 
been either killed or wounded except three, yet the enemy were driven out of 
every position in the village which they attempted to occupy, and by nine 
o'clock completely gave up the attempt. The next day was passed under arms, 
the enemy still hovering about the village, but on the 1st of January, 1818, the 
detachment made good its retreat to Seroor with both the guns and all the 
wounded. There were at the commencement but six officers with the detach- 
ment ; viz. Captain Staunton, commanding ; Lieutenant and Adjutant Paterson 
(died of his wounds) ; Lieutenant Cannellon (wounded) ; Lieutenant Jones of 
the 10th, but doing duty ; Assistant Surgeon Wingate (killed); Lieutenant Chis- 
holm of the artillery (killed); Assistant Surgeon Wylie (killed); Lieutenant 
Swans ton of the auxiliary horse (wounded). The two Assistant Surgeons fre- 
quently led the Sepoys to charge with the bayonet, and were both killed. The 
artillery were nearly all destroyed ; and of the battalion, 50 were killed and 



MAHARATTA. OF AURUNGABAD. 185 

105 wounded. The discouraging circumstances under which this action was 
fought, the ground having been just occupied after a long and fatiguing march, 
snd the troops forced to fight without food or water, gave the defence a charac- 
ter of desperate determination, scarcely to be equalled in history. — ( Prinsep , 
Fitzclarence, Public Journals , 8$c.) 

MAHARATTA ( Maharashtra ). 

In the ancient tables of the Hindoos, the term Maharashtra occurs as the 
name of a geographical division of the Deccan, referring principally to the 
north-west quarter. The best modern accounts lead us to suppose, that the ori- 
ginal country of the Maharattas included Khandesh, Baglana, and part of Berar, 
extending towards the north-west as far as Gujerat and the Nerbudda river, 
where the Grassias and Bheels commence, there being few genuine Maharattas 
ween further north. To the west they possessed the narrow, but strong tract of 
country, which borders on the Concan, and stretches parallel with the sea from 
near Surat to Canara. The Maharatta language is now more widely diffused; 
but it is not yet become the vernacular dialect of provinces situated far beyond 
the ancient boundaries of their country. From Beeder it is spread over the 
whole country to the north, westward of Canara, and of a line which, passing 
considerably to the eastward of Dowletabad, takes an irregular sweep until it 
touches the Tuptee, and follows the course of that river to the western sea ; on 
which border Sedasheoghur, in North Canara, forms the southern limit. It 
springs from the Sanscrit and approaches so closely to the Bengalese and Hin- 
dostany, that in a Maharatta translation of the Lord's prayer, 29 of the words 
are the same as in these languages. 

The original Maharatta state comprehended a country of great natural 
Strength, interspersed with mountains, defiles, and fortresses, and admirably 
calculated for the prosecution of defensive warfare ; but that they are not of 
the military caste is proved by the names of their principal tribes ; the Koon- 
bee, the Dungar, and the Goalah ; or the farmer, shepherd, and cowherd — all 
rural occupations. The exterior also of the Rajpoot and Maharatta marks a 
different origin. The first is remarkable for the grace and dignity of his person ; 
the latter, on the contrary, is of diminutive size, in general badly made, and of 
i, mean rapacious look and disposition. The S faharaita Brahmins differ also in 
their customs from their neighbours, with wfiom they will neither associate nor 
Intermarry. 

It certainly appears extraordinary that a nation so numerous as the Maharat- 
tas, should have remained almost wholly unnoticed in Indian history for so long 
a period, as from the first Mahommedan conquest until the reign of Aurengzebe ; 



184 THE PROVINCE [maharatta. 

but it probably originated from the indifference of all Mahommedan historians 
(except Abul Fazel) to every thing connected with the Hindoos or their religion. 
One respectable author (Major Wilford) seems inclined to consider them as 
foreigners, who migrated from the western parts of Persia, about 1200 years 
ago, which, were the fact established, is an era long prior to the Mahommedan 
incursions in this quarter. Nursingh, a prince of the Maharattas, is mentioned 
by Ferishta, but it is probable that prior to the time of Sevajee, the Maharatta 
country, like other parts of the Deccan, was divided into little principalities and 
chiefships, many of which were dependant on the neighbouring Mahommedan 
princes, but never completely brought under subjection. 1 

Sevajee, the first Maharatta commander who combined the efforts of 'these 
discordant ’ chiefs and tribes, was born in A. D. 1628, and died in 1680. Ac- 
cording to tradition he was the great grandson of Baugha Bhoonsla, an illegiti- 
mate son (by an obscure woman of the Bhoonsla tribe) of Rana Bheem, a Rana 
of the Rajpoot state of Odeypoor, the most illustrious of the Hindoo princes, 
and purest of the Khetri or military caste. Baugha Bhoonsla assumed the name 
of his mother s tribe, which has since that era continued to be the family name 
of his descendants, the Rajas of Satarah and Nagpoor. After various adven- 
tures, Baugha Bhoonsla purchased a bract of land near the city of Poona, of 
which he became zemindar, and where he died, leaving Shahjee, who entered 
the service of Jadoo Row, under whom he acquired great rank and influence. 
Soon after this, Shahjee married Jee Jhee, the only daughter of Jadoo Row, 
against the consent of her father ; and from this marriage, in 1628, sprung Sevajee, 
the founder of the Maharatta empire. Shahjee being compelled by his father-in- 
law, Jadoo Row, to quit Abmednuggur, at that time subject to the Nizam Shahee 
dynasty, entered the service of Ibrahim Adil Shah, king of Bejapoor. Shahjee 
having separated from his first wife, married Toka Bhye, by whom he had one 
son, afterwards king of Tanjore, and in 1667 was killed by a fall from his horse, 
but not before he had witnessed the rising power and fame of his son Sevajee. 
The 1 tter died, in A. D. 16 so, at which period his territory extended from 
Surat along the sea coast, to the vicinity of the Portugueze settlements of Goa, 
and as for as the range of hills which terminate the table land and form the 
eastern boundary of Concan. 

Sambajee, his son and success^ being at Pamella when his father died, a 
faction endeavoured to secure the succession to Ram K&ia. the son of Sevajee 
by another wife, but were frustrated by the exertions of Sambajee’s adherents. 
This prince extended the conquests of His father, but falling unfortunately into 
the hands of Aurengzebe was put to death in 1689. He was succeeded by his 
son, Sahoo Raja, a pageant prince, who delegated his whole authority to Balajee 



OF AURUNGABAD. 


M A H AR ATT A .] 


185 


Bishenauth, a Brahmin of Suwurdun in Concan, who had commanded 500 horse 
in the service of Sevajee. This priest militant acquired such an ascendancy 
over the mind of his master, that all orders and details were issued immediately 
from him as Peshwa, and he received from the Raja the title of Mookh Purd- 
haun, or chief civil minister, which latter term alone is engraved on the Peshwa’s 
seal. This anomalous form of government subsisted from that time to the 
present period, and on the death of a Peshwa, his successor was regularly in- 
vested by the Raja of Satarah with the insignia of office. 

Sahoo Raja died in 1740, in the 50th year of his reign, during the greater 
part of which he had been only a chief in name, and in the concluding yearn had 
been altogether forgotten. His imbecility, however, had not impeded the 
extension of his empire, which at the time of his death had reached its zenith. 
This race, whose name and existence we can with difficulty trace for the short 
period of one century, had either subdued or laid under contribution the whole 
of thfe Deccan and south of India ; eastward and westward their dominions were 
bounded by the sea ; to the north they reached to Agra ; on the south to Cape 
Comorin. Sahoo Raja, dying without issue, was succeeded by his son Ram 
Raja, the fourth Raja of Satarah, and son of Raja Ram, who has been already 
noticed as competitor with Sambajee, the son of Sevajee. Ram Raja being a 
ifvery weak prince, the Peshwa Bajerow (the son of Balajee Bishenauth) usurped 
the whole power, and fixed his capital at Poona, while Ragojee Bhoonsla, the 
bukshee or paymaster, ruled the eastern portion of the Maharatta conquests, and 
made Nagpoor in Gundwana the seat of his government. 

■5 This violent partition of the empire by its principal ministers occasioned the 
^usurpations of others, and the state began to break from the united shape it had 
fhitherto possessed into a confederacy of chiefs, who, however, for a period re- 
Ispected each other’s right, and acted under the leading influence and able 
||irection of Bajerow. Indeed down to the present day the ancient co-estates 
%{ the Maharatta empire have always shewn a strong solicitude to preserve the 
forms and revive the efficacy of their constitutional federation, which was vir- 
tually annihilated by the treaty of Bassein. Under this form of government, the 
Sfaharattas not only carried their successful ravages to the banks of the Indus, 
(fend through the rich provinces of Bengal ; but wrested from the Portuguese the 
important fortress of Bassein and the island of Salsette. The family of Sindia 
established themselves in Malwah, Khandesh, and afterwards extended their 
conquests over a great part of the Rajpoot principalities and of ^the n o rth e rn 
parts of Hindostan. A large share of Gujerat was seized on by the Guicowa* 
fondly, while that of Holcar established itself in those portions c£ Malwah, not 
occupied either by Stadia or the Peshwa. According to the 
rot. ii. « l a * 



186 THE PROVINCE [maharatta. 

among the Maharattas, the Peshwa, Sindia, Holcar, and the Powar family, 
should each have a fourth, provided each party co-operated equally in the con- 
quest, and contributed an equal share of the expense. The result of this has 
been, that the territories of the Peshwa, Dowlet Row Sindia, and Holcar* are so 
intermixed that it is impossible to discriminate them by distinguishing marks on 
any map. 

Bajerow died in 1761, and left the office of Peshwa, now considered as here- 
ditary to his descendants. About this time a formidable rival to the Maharattas 
appeared in the famous Ahmed Shah Abdalli, of Cabul, and on the 7th of 
January, 1761, was fought the memorable battle of Paniput, where the Mafia- 
rattas experienced one of the most sanguinary defeats recorded in history. 
This overthrow checked their enterprizing spirit ; and for more than ten years 
none of their armies committed any depredations of consequence to the north 
of the Nerbudda. The Maharattas seldom engage in pitched battles, and until 
their recent conflicts with the British, after they had organized corps of disci- 
plined infantry, but two instances are recorded ; the one at Paniput, and the 
other near Serin gapatam, where Hyder was defeated by Trimbuck Mamma. 

The next Peshwa was Madhoorow, who died in 1772, and was succeeded by his 
son Narrain Row, who was murdered the following year by his uncle Rogobah, 
(or Ragonauth Row) ; who, however, failed in his object, as the posthumous son 
of Narrain Row, named Sevajee Madhoorow, was proclaimed Peshwa, by a 
combination of twelve chiefs, styled the Barrah Bhye. At the head of these 
was Balajee Pundit, commonly called Nana Furnavese, who became dewan, or 
prime minister to the infant prince. Ragobah solicited and gained the support 
of the Bombay government, with which he concluded a treaty highly advan- 
tageous to the Company ; but their endeavours to support his claim were in- 
effectual. The atrocity of Ragobah’s crime had brought general obloquy on 
him among a nation with whom assassination is unfrequent, and his calling in 
foreign aid had the effect of producing a junction against him of the whole Ma- 
haratta empire. By the interference of the Bengal government, a treaty of 
peace was concluded, but in 1777, the Bombay presidency again espoused the 
cause of Ragobah, and a war ensued which was terminated in a short time by a 
disgraceful convention, and Ragobah was abandoned. A general war afterwards 
took place between the English and Maharattas, in which the latter acted on the 
defensive ; but it was judged expedient to make a peace on account of the Car- 
Hatic invasion by Hyder* A pacification accordingly was arranged by Mr. 
Anderson in 1782, by the conditions of which every conquest was restored 
except the island of Salsette* 

At this period there were a great many petty independent states, which 



OF AURUNGABAD. 


MAHARATTA.] 


187 


extended along the western frontier of the Company’s dominions, and formed a 
barrier towards the Maharatta territories. In 1784, the Maharattas commenced 
their operations against these states, and in the course of six or seven years, the 
whole were completely subdued, and annexed or rendered tributary to the Ma- 
haratta empire, which by these encroachments came in contact with the British 
dominions, In 1785-6, the Poona Maharattas, in conjunction with the Nizam, 
carried on an unsuccessful war with Tippoo, and were obliged to purchase peace 
with the cession of some valuable provinces, all of which they recovered by 
their alliance with the British government in 1790. 

Sevajee Madhoorow, the young Peshwa, died in consequence of a fall from 
the terrace of his palace on the 27th of October, 1795, and the empire was 
rent by the internal dissensions which followed that event. In November next, 
Purseram Bhow and five other chiefs, in concert with Nana Furnavese, resolved 
to instal an infant Peshwa of a distant branch, to the exclusion of Ttogobah’s 
sons Bajerow and his brother Chimnajee Appah, who were the legitimate heirs 
to that dignity; but in March 1796, dread of the power of Sindia made him 
join the Nana, to anticipate the intention of that chief by releasing Bajerow 
from his confinement, and placing him on the throne. In May following Pur- 
seram Bhow became an active instrument of Sindia in dethroning Bajerow, 
and raising his brother Chimnajee to the Musuud, a measure to which he was 
induced by the hopes of governing the empire as dewan to the young Peshwa, 
to which office he was immediately appointed. But his power was of short 
duration, for Sindia soon afterwards found it for his interest to enter into a 
combination with the principal chiefs for the restoration of Bajerow to the 
office of Peshwa, with Nana Furnavese for his dewan, and the Bhow was com- 
pelled with his protegee to fly for safety, but was pursued, taken prisoner, and 
confined until 1798. At this time the Peshwa s authority extended no further 
than that branch of the Maharatta state termed the Poona Sait; comprising 
most of the original country of the tribe, but none of their conquests. The last 
appearance of a federal combination was in 1795, when the computed number of 
troops, assembled for the purpose of invading the Nizam, nominally under the 
Peshwa, was estimated at 127,000 horse and foot, and probably amounted to 
half the number. 

Besides the above army of regulars, there were many corps of Pindaries, Loo- 
ties, or predatory horsemen (all synonymous appellations), accompanying this 
array, who instead of receiving pay, were accustomed to purchase of the com- 
mander-in-chief the privilege of plundering at their own risk and charge, which 
gfcve a singular edge to their appetite for plunder. They were then, as now, 
principally Mahoramedans, but all tribes *were found amongst them, and the 

b b 2 



188 THE PROVINCE [mahajutta* 

depots for their plunder were situated, as recently, in the strong country of 
Malwab. 

From the above date (1795) until the 25th October, 1802, Bajerow the second 
continued to occuppy his tottering throne ; but on that day the army of Dowlet 
Row Sindia, combined with the forces of the Peshwa, being totally defeated 
near Poona, by Jeswunt Row Holcar, *he fled towards Sevemdroog, in the Con- 
can, where he embarked for Bassein, which he reached on the 1st of December* 
On the 31st of that month a treaty of perpetual friendship and alliance was con- 
cluded between the Peshwa and the British government, by the condition' of 
which the friends and enemies of the one were to be considered in the salpae 
relation to the other. The Peshwa agreed to receive into his dominions a sub- 
sidiary force of 6000 infantry, with their usual proportion of field pieces mid 
European artillerymen, for the payment of which he assigned districts in the 
southern quarter of his country This treaty not only contained no stipulation 
injurious to the just rights of the feudatory chieftains of the Maharatta empire, 
but provided additional security for the unmolested exercise of those rights. In 
1 803, an addition of one regiment of native cavalry was made to the above force, 
and the southern districts exchanged for the province of Bundelcund. This 
treaty annihilated the Maharattas as a federal empire, and in its stead esta- 
blished the relatively independent states of the Peshwa, the Nagpoor Raja, Sin- 
dia, Holcar, and the Guicowar. In the beginning of May, 1803, the Peshwa 
Bajerow was reinstated at Poona, by General Wellesley, who also assisted him 
to settle all his differences with the numerous chiefs subordinate to the Poona 
state. 

A longer peace now ensued than had ever before been experienced by the 
Maharatta empire ; but the Peshwa’s internal government, which was still left to 
himself, was wretchedly conducted, the administration of justice being neglected, 
yet the utmost revenue rigidly exacted. If any tendency to commotion appeared, 
the British troops were called in to suppress it, and the miserable people natu- 
rally imputed their sufferings to the power that upheld their sovereign, in whose 
treasury an immense surplus revenue was accumulating. In the course of the 
ten years that followed the treaty of Bassein, the Peshwa by the measures he 
pursued was successful in ruining a majority of the old Maharatta families* His 
arrangements with the southern jaghiredars were made in 1812, through the 
medium of the British government, and he was very much dissatisfied because 
his claims were then fixed and defined. Being naturally of an artful rapacious 
(though timid) disposition, he made many petty attempts to revive the claims for 
plunder, which the Maharattas from long custom seem to think nothing more than 
a just privilege, which they have a peculiar right of exercising on all their neigh- 



ma bar att a .] OF AURUNGABAD. 189 

hours* With them a predatory inroad is not regarded as a violation of dignity, 
but only a legitimate exertion of the forces of the state. In pursuance of this 
object a demand was made on the Nabob of Kurnoul in 1809, by the court of 
Poona, for payment of the choute, or fourth part of the surplus revenue ; but the 
claim was controverted and rejected by the British government. On this occa- 
sion it did not become necessary to investigate by what right the Maharatta 
state had formerly exacted heavy tributary payments under the name of choute. 
As it was originally acquired and subsequently maintained by the power of the 
sword, so it was to be considered as alienated, like similar rights, by the opera- 
tion of the same cause, by the revolution of states, and by the changes of political, 
relations and supremacy. A large proportion of the British dominions, and 
those composing the Mysore territories, were formerly liable to the payment of 
choute, but the demand originally established by force, ceased with the power 
to compel its execution. 

The Maharatta constitution from the commencement has always been more 
aristocratic than despotic, and the local arrangements of the empire peculiar, the 
territories of the different powers being interspersed and blended with each other. 
Great part of the Peshwa s former dominions extended along the west coast of 
India, yet, until the treaty of .Bassein, he possessed lands to the north of Delhi, 
and until recently held a pergunnah within a few miles of Surat. It was no 
uncommon thing for a district, or even a single town, to be held by two or three 
chiefs, and some were the joint property of the Nizam and Peshwa; but the 
latter, although the acknowledged head of the Maharatta empire held very little 
territory directly in his own power. Within his nominal jurisdiction the Guico- 
war’s country was included, and he received an annual tribute from the Gujerat 
pe ninsula . From the southern jaghiredats, however, he received little except 
military service, and from his insulated lands in the province of Malwah and 
other remote parts, his remittances had long been scanty and precarious. 

At the court of Poona all the high offices were hereditary. The dewan 
(prime minister), thefamavese (chancellor), the chitnaveze (secretary), and even 
the commander in chief, or bearer of the jerryput (the national standard), were 
all situations held by descent. For the payment of the different military corps, 
there was an establishment of officers to enforce justice between government and 
its servants ; but the multiplication of checks had apparently no other effect 
than to increase the corruption. Not only half the grain and forage allowed to 
the horses was embezzled, but horses were changed, reported dead, and every 
species of the most flagitious corruption practised with impunity, owing to the 
generst intere st and participation therein. As a set-off against these palpable 
de&teations, the government withheld the pay of the troops, which occasioned. 



J90 THE PROVINCE [maharatta. 

much clamour from the chiefs, who seldom, however, proceeded to extremities, 
while their illicit profits were secure ; and the tardy receipt of payment from go- 
vefrunent furnished a specious pretext for not paying the poor sepoy. The latter 
was in consequence often through poverty compelled to seek another service, 
with the loss of all his arrears, which his leader collected if he could, or com- 
pounded the whole for a part. But after all, those extortions seldom remained 
with him, being generally anticipated by loans taken up from the monied Brah- 
mins at an exorbitant rate of interest, who were in their turn squeezed by the 
sovereign. 1 

It is one peculiar feature in the Maharatta constitution, that the government 
always considers itself in a state of war, which formerly was a principal source! of 
revenue. On the day of the festival called the Dusserah, or Doorga Pooja, 
towards the end of September, at the breaking up of the rains, the Maharattas 
used to prepare ,Tor their plundering excursions. On this occasion they washed 
their horses* sacrificing to each a sheep, whose blood was sprinkled with some 
ceremony, but the flesh eaten with none. In 1797 Dowlet Row Sindiawas sup- 
posed to have slaughtered 12,000 sheep ; the Brahmin chiefs gave their servants 
money for this purpose. The Maharatta soldiers eat almost every thing indis- 
criminately except beef and tame swine ; they will eat wild hogs. The Maha- 
ratta country abounds with horses, and there are some of a very fine breed called 
the Beemarteddy (reared near the river Beema) ; but the common Maharatta 
horse, used in war, is a lean ill looking animal, with large bones, and commonly 
about 14 or lAi hands high. The only weapon used by the horsemen is a 
sabre, in the use of which, and management of their horses, they are extremely 
dexterous. For defenoe they wear a quilted jacket of cotton cloth, which 
comes half way down their thighs ; and throughout the whole Maharatta army 
every horseman looks upon himself as excellent company for his chieftain, and 
always sits dovtn with him. The number of genuine Maharattas in the con- 
quered pro\h,<ev. remote from the seat of government, did not use to bear a 
much greaur proportion to the natives of these countries than the British in 
India at pr x nt do. The territories which they possessed in Upper Hindostatl 
were, for many years, only secured to their authority by the introduction of 
European officers into their armies, who opposed a system of discipline to the 
irregular valour of the Rajpoots and native Mahommedans. 

In the different governments of the native powers, as in most despotic ones, 
the prince, unless he possesses great talents, soon becomes a mere cipher, the 
prime minister engrossing all the authority. To this rule the Maharatta states are 
not an exception, and this important office was uniformly bestowed on the per* 
son who could furnish the largest sum of money for some particular exigence; 



MAHARATTA.] OF AURUNGABAD. 191 

consequently every subaltern situation was disposed of to the highest bidder, 
and to the most dignified chief in the Majiaratta empire a bribe might be offered, 
not only without offence, but with a positive certainty of success. 

Among this people the gradual progress of refinement is discernible from the 
wild predatory Maharatta, almost semi-barbarous, to the polished and insidious 
Brahmin, whose specious politeness and astonishing command of temper leave 
all European hypocrisy in the shade. This extraordinary urbanity qualifies them 
in the highest degree for all public business. The bulk of the people under a 
Maharatta government are without property, few having an opportunity of ac- 
quiring wealth, except the powerful Brahmins, who are the principal function- 
aries under the state. Their avarice is insatiable ; and, if ever the madness of 
accumulation was accompanied by the highest degree of folly it is here exam- 
plified ; for although the Brahmin be permitted to go on for years in the practice 
of extortion, his wealth at last attracts the attention of the prince, when he is 
obliged to disgorge, ana is perhaps confined in a fortress for life. If he happens 
to die in office his property is generally sequestrated. This mode of raising 
money formed a considerable part of the contingent revenue, and was known by 
the name of goona geeree, or crime penalty. 

From this disquisition on the nature of the people, we now return to the con- 
duct of their prince, whose scarcely concealed hatred to the British at length 
burst forth into the bitterest hostilities. The first overt act was the murder of 
the Guicowar’s ambassador, Gungadhur Shastry, in 1815, effected through the 
direct agency of Trimbuckjee Dainglia, who had risen to the highest stations 
from the basest origin. He was at first a menial servant, but afterwards pro- 
moted, on account of his superior profligacy, to be one of the Peshwa’s social 
companions, and at last his decided favourite and prime minister. Mr. Elphin- 
stone early foresaw the consequences that must ensue, and gave a prophetic 
warning of the impending rupture. The endeavour to screen the Peshwa’s repu- 
tation, by throwing the whole guilt of the assassination on Trimbuckjee, was met 
so perversely, that in 1815, his intrigues at almost every court in India were 
discovered^ and, after long forbearance, the fact notified to him. On' this occa- 
sion he neither denied the charge nor attempted to palliate it, but vowed the 
Strictest fidelity for the future, confirmed the existing engagements by the most 
solemn asseverations, and expressed the utmost gratitude for the gentle treatment 
he had experienced. In September, 1815, Trimbuckjee was delivered up, and 
sent to the fort of Tanna, in Salsette, but from this date, notwithstanding the 
Peshwa’s professions, it was evident nothing was to be expected from him but 
the most rancorous and malignant hatred, and the measures he henceforward 



192 THE PROVINCE [maharatta. 

adopted for effecting a general confederacy against the British nation, evinced 
much more consistency and resolution, 

' Very soon afterwards he was in consequence detected collecting an army 
under the pretext of quelling a rebellion, headed by Trimbuckjee (who had 
escaped from prison), to whom a constant remittance of treasure was made from 
the Peshwa s coffers, as was well known to the resident, who had accurate 
information of each issue regularly as it took place. It became then necessary to 
anticipate this incorrigible plotter. His capital was surrounded, and although 
no new terms were imposed, he was compelled to fulfil an article in the tjreaty 
of Bassein, by which he was obliged to keep up an auxiliary force of 5000 Horse 
to co-operate with the British, not one of which had ever been retained. [ To 
pay these, certain districts yielding the necessary revenue were now demancled, 
according to the usual Maharatta custom of assigning lands to chiefs for the sub- 
sistence of a specific number of troops, viz. 

1. The Concan to the north from Poona to Bombay, estimated at II, but 
which ultimately turned out only 7 lacks. 

2. The whole of the Peshwa’s dominions in Gujprat, exclusive of Ahmedabad, 
Oolpar, and the Guicowar s commutation payment, estimated at 10 lacks. 

3. The Catty war tribute — four lacks. 

4. The fortresses of Darwar and Khooshgul, with territory in the neighbour- 
hood, sufficient to make the entire revenue equal to 34 lacks, in lieu of the con- 
tingent which the Peshwa was bound to furnish. In addition to the above, as 
pledges for his faithful adherence, he made a temporary surrender of Singhur, 
Poorunder, and Ryeghur. 

Notwithstanding these endeavours still to keep him on the throne, and in thf 
station of a sovereign prince, the intensity of his hatred to the British, and san* 
guinary desire to massacre Mr. Elphinstone, precipitated a rupture, which, had 
it been longer delayed, might have been attended with a more mischievous result. 
He had trusted to the co-operation of Sindia* Ameer Khan, Holcar, and ike 
Berar Raja, but did not know, that by the skilful distribution of the British 
armies, the two first were already reduced to a state of nullity. In the spring of 
1817, matters had proceeded to such an extremity that a rupture appeared in- 
evitable ; but his fears still predominated until the 5th November, 1817, on which 
day, having mounted his horse, he joined his army, then encamped at the Parbutty 
hill, a little to the south-west of Poona. His troops immediately advan ced 
against the residency, from whence the resident and his suite had just to 
escape. All the houses of which it consisted were first plundered and then set 
on fire, by which proceedings much valuable property was destroyed.aadaJoBg 



if a h Aft a tra .} OF AURUNGABAD 193 

with it Mr. Elphinstone’s books and manuscripts, an irreparable loss to India 
and the British nation. Next day the Maharattas were attacked and defeated 
by the forces under Colonel Burr; and on Colonel Smith's arrival at Poona after 
another sharp action on the 16th November, the Peshwa's camp was found de- 
serted next morning, all his tents being left standing, and one enormous gun 
named Maha Cali, or the great destroyer. In the course of the same day the 
city of Poona surrendered and was occupied by the British troops, who were 
with difficulty restrained from revenging the barbarities which had been inflicted 
on their families by the Maharattas. The Peshwa, finding himself thus baffled 
and defeated by mere detachments, lost all confidence in his own soldiers, and 
never after rose above the character of a wandering and desponding fugitive. 

Subsequent to these operations at Poona, Bajerow fled south towards Satarah, 
where he took possession of the Raja and his family, whom he carried along 
with him in his erratic flights, east, west, north, and south, to escape the hot 
pursuit of his enemlies. At length, after suffering much distress and many sur- 
prises, on the 20th February, 1818, General Smith compelled Gokla to risk an 
action at Ashta with the cavalry, in which that distinguished commander was 
slain, his troops totally defeated, and the Satarah Raja with his family captured. 
From hence Bajerow fled northward towards Khandesh, where being joined by 
the loose military with which all the provinces swarmed, he marched east to the 
Wurda to create a diversion in favour of the Nagpoor Raja ; but being met and 
totally defeated by Colonel Adam at Soonee, all his chiefs deserted except 
Trimbuckjee, Ram Deen (a Pindary), the Vinchoor Cur (named Baloobah), and 
the widow of Gokla. This dispersion of the leaders in various directions con- 
tributed to prolong the escape of the Peshwa, as they misled the pursuers, and 
rendered it impossible to determine which was the true line of his flight. He in 
consequence remained at large for some time longer, in a state of incessant mo- 
tion, marching, countermarching, and flying, a mode of life completely at vari- 
ance with the slothful and luxurious habits of a wealthy Brahmin. His line of 
march, however, had been so devious, that his pursuers were completely at fault,* 
so that when he arrived in the neighbourhood of Aseerghur his weaned troops 
enjoyed a halt of nearly 25 days. These still amounted to between 5 and 600Q 
home, and above 4000 infantry, mostly Arabs, and notwithstanding. the apparent 
desperation of his circumstances, military adventurers were daily. flocking to 
his standard. The advanced seaspn of the year also greatly aggravated the di£ 
ficulty of the crisis, as the strong fortress of Aseerghur was open to receive 
him, mid actually did admit as much of his baggage and valuables as he chose 
to deposit. To besiege and capture such a fortress required an equipment no, 
army in the vicinity possessed, nor was it possible to prevent his entering it or 
vox, IX. c c 



194 THE PROVINCE [xjjuuvta* 

flying elsewhere, whenever he chose. All central Hindoatan swarmed with dis- 
contented freebooters, Sindia’s policy was worse than vacillating, and the hos- 
tility of his and all other provincial Maharatta governors to the British cause 
perfectly established. The delay threatened a protracted warfare with all its at- 
tendant tumult, defalcation of revenue, and enormous military expenditure; and 
it was perfectly evident that, from the frontiers of Mysore to the northern boun- 
dary of Malwah, the agitation would be incessant until the ex-Peshwa had sub- 
mitted or was taken. 

Under these circumstances, it happened most fortunately that the PeshWa of 
his own accord made' overtures to Sir John Malcolm, who then commanded in 
Malwah, and whose ascendant over the minds of the natives and their chiefs 
was universal. A negotiation ensued, which was conducted on the part|Of that 
officer with such firmness and conciliating address, that after much hesitation it 
ended in Bajerow’s renouncing all sovereignty for ever for himself and family, 
and surrendering himself on the 3d June, 1818, a prisoner to the British govern- 
ment ; an apnual pension of eight lacks of rupees being guaranteed to him. 
Nothing could be more fortunate than such an early termination of the war, and 
the pecuniary sacrifice made to obtain it was trifling compared with the benefits 
that ultimately resulted ; all feelings of resentment having long been disarmed 
by the abject condition to which he was reduced. The PesHwa’s abdication 
dissolved at once the whole Maharatta confederacy, and broke a charm which 
mere force was not capable of effecting. Pithoor, a place of Hindoo pilgrimage, 
only a few miles distant from the large cantonments of Cawnpoor, was subse- 
quently fixed on for the future residence of the exiled chief, and to this depot he 
was accompanied by the Vinchoor Cur and the widow of Gokla. 

In the mean time war had been going on with Holcar and the Nagpoor Raja, 
who being totally discomfited, in excuse for their folly and ingratitude in break- 
ing the bands of amity, pleaded the orders of the Peshwa, whose commands they 
declared they were bound at all hazards to obey. With such proofs that the 
most pointed oaths, and the strongest obligations for benefits received, could not 
counter balance the influence of the name of Peshwa, it would have been quite 
irrational to re-establish that title, or to raise any of Bajerow’s family to the 
throne under, any other appellation, as the indefeasible character of Peshwa and 
chief of the Maharatta armies would still have been ascribed to the individual, 
in spite of any formal barriers that could have been devised to the contrary. It 
was chiefly for this reason that the Marquis of Hastings determined to annihilate 
the name and authority of Peshwa, and with the Preservation of certain temte- 
rtes for the Satarah family, to occupy the whole of the Poona dominions for the 
British nation. In December 1817, he issued his instructions to this dfofit. 



OF AURUNGABAD. 


(AHAKATTA,] 


105 


instituting l M r. Elphinstone commissioner, with full powers for the execution 
>f the plan. The jaghiredars who had held of the Peshwa, were to be admitted 
o hold on the same terms of the British government, unless they engaged in 
ictive hostility, or procrastinated their submission until it was too late for ac- 
septance. The lands of Gokla were ordered to be immediately sequestrated ; 
wt it was intended to establish the Satarah Raja in a territorial possession* 
either as a dependant jaghire or compact sovereignty, under the acknowledged 
supremacy of the British government. On the capture of Satarah, the Maha- 
ratta flag was in bonquence re-hoisted, and a proclamation issued, inviting that 
nation to rally round their legitimate head. The good effects resulting from this 
measure were soon apparent in the submission of several chiefs anxious to 
establish an early claim to the favour of the restored dynasty. The, last open 
memy was destroyed in the affair of Sholapoor ; and before the end of May 
1818 , every fortified place had surrendered except a few strong holds still ob- 
stinately defended by the Arabs of Khandesh. 

Although the great majority of the population throughout the Poona territo- 
ries, and more especially of the cultivators, are of the Brahminical religion, yet 
very few are of the genuine Maharatta nation, and the whole had suffered under 
the most odious system of fiscal management, that of being farmed out to 
Brahmins and monied bankers. The great mass of the cultivating class 
throughput Hindostan, have always shewn an instinctive eagerness to come 
under the British domination, and the peasantry in the ex-Peshwa’s dominions 
proved no exception ; for no sooner were they released by the commissioner’s 
proclamation from all dread of again feeling the vengeance of Bajerow, than 
they ceased to pay any revenue to his local functionaries, bringing it with much 
alacrity to the British treasury. To conciliate the religious classes, an explicit 
assurance was given that all existing establishments should be maintained, and all 
endowments held inviolate. Presents were also distributed to the mendicant 
devotees, to compensate in some measure for the indiscriminate bounty of their 
M* sovereign. The martial classes, who, in the shape of jaghires and military 
Senures, enjoyed above ohe half of the ordinary revenue of the Peshwa s dorai- 
pma* were reconciled to the change by the establishment of the Satarah Raja, 
jjrhich had the effect of rendering the cause of Bajerow rather individual than 
Rational. In addition to this inducement, the commissioner’s proclamation noti- 
fied, that all who submitted within two months, should have their actual posses- 
ions guaranteed in perpetuity* so that notwithstanding the great influx of mili- 
ary consequent to the dispersion of Bajerow’s army, the Poona territories im- 
mediately after their submission presented a tranquillity more resembling fc sea- 
pn of continued peace, than the result of recent conquest.— MisctUancow 

c c 2 



196 TllE PROVINCE [poona 

MSS. Prinsep, Tone, The Marquis of Hastings, Malet , Eetul Punt , Lord Yakntia, 
&>c. #c. §c.) 

Poona (Puna ). — The modern capital of the Maharatta empire, and former 
residence of the Peshwa. Lat. 18° 30' N. long. 74° 2' E. This place is situated 
about 30 miles to the east of the ghauts, 100 road miles from Bombay, and 75 
from the nearest sea coast. Considering its rank Poona is not large, covering 
probably little more than two square miles, is but indifferently built, and wholly 
open and defenceless ; on which account it ..better answers the description of a 
large village than of a city. Several of the houses are larg6, and built with 
square blocks of granite to about 14 feet from the ground; the upper part is a 
frame work of timber with slight walls. The lime, bricks, and tiles are so bad, 
that the rain washes away any building that does not depend on timber for its 
support. The inhabitants are well supplied from extensive markets, and there is 
a long street in which a great variety of articles, such as mirrors, globes, lamps, 
&c. are displayed. The streets are named after mythological personages, add- 
ing the termination warry, equivalent to street ; and the members of the Hindoo 
Pantheon are brought still further into notice by paintings on the exterior of the 
houses : the history of the Brahminical deities may therefore be learned while 
traversing the city. 

The ancient palace or castle of Poona is surrounded by high thick walls, with 
four round towers, and has only on6 entrance, through a pointed arch* Here the 
Peshwa’s brother, and other members of the family resided, but he had a 
modem house for his own residence in another part of the town. In 1809, he 
made arrangements for the erection of a palace to be built by British architects, 
his highness defraying the expense. Preparatory to the construction of this 
edifice, the ground was marked out and consecrated by being plaistered over with 
a composition of cow dung and ashes. The view from Parvati hill commands 
the town with all its gardens and plantations, the cantonments of the subsidiary 
force, and the British residency at the Sungum. At the bottom of the 
hill is a large square field enclosed with high brick walls, where the Peshwa used 
to assemble the Brahmins, to whom he gave alms at the great feast, when the 
rainy season terminates, who, on these occasions begged their way to Poona 
from all parts of Hindostan. When all were assembled, they were shut in and 
marked, and as they come out, one at a time, the gratuity was given to them* 
Something of the same kind is still continued by the British government. 
To the east of the city there are mythological excavations resembling those of 
Carli and Elephants, but of a very inferior description. 

At Poona the Moota river joins the Moola, their union forming the Moots* 
Moola which flows into the Beema. The Beema -afterwards proceeding on 



POONA.] OF AURUNGABAD. 197 

forms a junction with the Krishna ; by which route, during the rainy season, 
a journey by water in a light canoe may be effected from within 75 miles distance 
of the western coast of India, to the bay of Bengal. The Moota washes the 
city on the north side, where it is about 200 yards broad, and in the dry season 
very shallow. It was formerly intended to build a bridge over it, but the 
Peshwa who commenced it, and his successor, dying, while prosecuting the 
work, the undertaking was judged unpleasant to the gods, and abandoned. The 
Sungum, where the British ambassador resides, is distant about two miles from 
the city, having the Moota river between them, and is entirely occupied by the 
ambassador's suite and other British subjects. The garden is watered from both 
rivers by means of aqueducts, and produces Indian fruits and vegetables. Apple 
and beech trees thrive here, and there is also an excellent vineyard. 

The late Peshwa Bajerow is the son of the famous Ragobah (Ragoonauth 
Row) of evil memory. His predecessor Madhoorow, the young Peshwa, died 
suddenly on the 27th October, 1795, when this prince was raised to the sove- 
reignty, but experienced many vicissitudes, having been repeatedly dethroned 
and re-instated by the chiefs of the different factions. His alliance with the 
British government, concluded at Bassein in December, 1802, established his 
power on a solid foundation, where, as before related, the perversity of his dis- 
position would not allow it to remain. Although his family is Brahminical, yet 
not being of the highest order, the purer classes of Brahmins refuse to eat with 
them ; and at Nassuck, a place of pilgrimage near the source of the Godavery, 
he was not Allowed to descend by the same flight of steps used by the holy priests. 
The Poona Brahmins affect an extreme purity, and abstain from animal food, and 
some of them object to eating carrots ; but notwithstanding their sanctified ab- 
stinence, they are held in extreme contempt by their carnivorous brethren of 
Bengal and Upper Hindostan. Among the natives here, beef is never killed or 
eaten, except by such base tribes of Hindoos' as are utterly abominable.. Par- 
ticular towns, however, within the Maharatta territories, enjoy the exclusive 
privilege of killing beef for sale. Koorsee on the Krishna river is one, and 
Wahi or Wye, about 50 miles to the southward of Poona, is another. The burn- 
ing of widows with their husbands’ corpses, is very frequent at Poona, where 
five or six instances occur every year, and the immolation is usually performed 
at the junction of the Moota and Moola rivers, close to the British residency. 

The population -of Poonh is not great for the metropolis of so extensive an 
empire, but it, has rabidly increased during the long tranquillity it has enjoyed 
since 1803* and probably now exceeds 150,000. Formerly* at the festivaLof the 
Dusserah, on the 13th October, the great Maharatta chiefs used to attend at 
Poona* accompanied by prodigious bodies of their followers, by whom wheas 



jgg THE PROVINCE [cahlx. 

fields were devastated. Having celebrated this festival, they were accustomed 
to set out on their predatory excursions into the neighbouring countries, where 
little distinction was made between friend and foe, — a Maharatta being remark- 
ably impartial in his robberies. On some occasions, when invaded, the Maharat- 
tas not thinking Poona worth preserving, have destroyed it with their own hands, 
after sending the archieves and valuables to some of the nearest hill fortresses ; 
and, in a state that can conveniently exist without a large capital, great advan- 
tages are gained in war by a release from such an incumbrance. In 1803, when 
menaced by Jeswunt Row Holcar, and his sanguinary banditti, by a rapid ad- 
vance and seasonable arrival, Major General Wellesley saved the City of Poona 
from destruction, which impressed the inhabitants with a most favourable opinion 
of the British character. On this occasion, it was a circumstance equally 
honourable to the character and propitious to the interests of the British nation 
in this quarter of India, that the first effect of their interposition should have 
been the preserving of the Maharatta capital from impending ruin, and its in- 
habitants from violence and rapine. 

Travelling distance from Bombay 98 miles ; from Hyderabad 387 ; from Oo- 
jein442; from Nagpoor 486 ; from Delhi 913; and from Calcutta by Nagpoor 
1208 miles. — ( Rennell, M. Graham , The Marquis of Wellesley , Moor, fyc. 8$c. 8gc J 

Carli. — Some remarkable mythological excavations in the province of Au- 
rungabad, situated opposite to the fort of Loghur, from which they are distant 
about four miles, and 30 miles N.W. from Poona. The chain of hills here runs east 
and west, but the one in which are the caves, protrudes from them at right 
angles. The chief cave fronts due west. Here are an extensive line of caverns, 
the principal of which consists of a vestibule of an oblong square shape, divided 
from the temple itself, which is arched and supported by pillars. The length of 
the whole is 126, and the breadth 46 feet. No figures of the deity are to be 
found within the pagoda, but the walls of the vestibule are covered with calv- 
ings in alto relievo of elephants, of human figures of both sexes, and of Buddha, 
who is represented in some places sitting cross-legged, and in others erect* 
There are also numerous inscriptions on the walls. The ribs of the roof are tim- 
ber, and cannot be supposed of equal age with the excavation. A line of caves 
extends about 150 yards to the north of the great one. These are flat roofed and 
of a square form, and were probably occupied by the attendants on the temjple* 
In the last is a figure of Buddha, whose symbols predominate throughout. The 
difference between the caverns of Elephanta and Carli is striking. Here ere no 
personifications of the deity, and no separate cells for sacred rites. The religious 
dogmas that consecrated them are no less different, the first having been dedi- 



chinchooe. OF AURUNGABAD. 199 

cated to the deities of the Brahminical sect, and the last to those of the Bud- 
dhists or of the Jains. — ( Lord Vakntia, M. Graham, < %c.) 

Loghur (Lohaghar, the iron fort ). — A strong hill fort in the province of Au- 
rangabad, 30 miles N.W. from Poona. Lat. 18°41'N. long. 73° 37' E. The 
pependicular height of this fortress is too great to be stormed, and the artificial 
defences erected are not supposed to add to its strength. Lower down than the 
main body of the fort there is a ledge of hill, but of sufficient height to pre.vent 
any attack, the rock being perfectly bare and perpendicular. From the summit 
the view is very extensive. The sea beyond Bombay appears to the west; in- 
land a chain of hills is visible, whose tops rise into fortified summits as perpen- 
dicular as Loghur. The strata of these is surprisingly regular, and a line drawn 
from one hill would meet the corresponding strata of another. The summits are 
mostly green and capable of cultivation. Loghur has within numerous tanks and 
several small streams from the springs above. The magazines are cut in the rock. 

Loghur formerly belonged to Nana Furnavese, who at his death con- 
signed it to the custody of Dund-oe Punt ; but by the interference of General 
Wellesley, it was surrendered to the Peshwa, who could not otherwise have ob- 
tained it, it being esteemed one of the strongest forts in his dominions. Dundoe 
Punt declared he had lived in this hill fort 30 years, without ever descending. 
On the tupture with the Peshwa, this place was taken by Colonel Prother’s de- 
tachment, in March, 1818 . — ( Lord Valentia, &;c. &;c.) 

Tulgong. — A small town in the province of Aurungabad, 17 miles N. N. W. 
from Poona. Lat. 18° 43 N. long. 73° 51' E. 

Chaukna. — A town in the province of Aurungabad, 16 miles N. from Ppo- 
na. Lat. 18° 43' N. long. 74° 3' E. 

Chinchoor. — A small town in the province of Aurungabad, situated on the 
road from Bombay to Poona, and about 10 miles N. N. W. from that city. Lat. 
18° 37' N. long. 73° 56' E. It is pleasantly situated on the banks of a river, and 
is said to contain 5000 inhabitants, including 300 Brahmin families. It has the 
appearance of an industrious town, the houses being good, the streets clean, and 
the shops well supplied. 

This place is the residence of Chintamun Deo, whom a great proportion of the 
Maharatta nation believe to be an incarnation of their favourite deity Goonputty. 
The present is die eighth in descent from the first, and they take the name alter- 
nately of Chintamun Deo, and Narrain Deo. The Brahmins relate that each 
Deo, at his death, has been burned ; and invariably a small image of Goonputty 
has miraculously risen from the ashes, which is placed in the tomb and worship- 
ped. . Although the Deo be an incarnation of Goonputty, he performs pooja 
(worships) his other self, in the form of a statue; for the latter, theBrahims say, is 



200 THE PROVINCE [jxjurmt. 

the greatest, his power not being diminished by the incarnation. The Deo is, ex 
officio, a dewannah or fool ; but the term fool does not in this instance, as in most 
others, give the best translation of the word. He is totally unmindful and ig- 
norant of % worldly affairs, unable (the Brahims say) to hold conversation beyond 
the proposition, reply, and rejoinder, and then in a childish blubbering manner. 
His ordinary occupations do not materially differ from those of other men, he 
eats, drinks, takes wives to himself, &c. like other Brahmins. 

In 1809, the Deo was a boy, 12 years . of age. His palace is an enormous pile 
of building, without any kind of elegance, near the Moota river, on which the 
town stands. The floors of this edifice are spread over with the sacred cow 
dung, and the apartments crowded with sleek, shining, well fed Brahmins. Near 
the palace, are the tombs of the former Deos, which are so many small temples, 
enclosed and planted round with trees, and communicating by steps with the 
river. Here goes on the business of worship. In one place are seen women 
pouring oil, water, and milk, over the figure of the gods ; in another, children 
decking them with flowers. Here pilgrims and devotees performing their ablu- 
tions ; and there priests chaunting portions of the sacred poems : the whole 
proceeding with the most listless indolence ar\d apathy . — ( Lord Valentia , Moor , 

. M. Graham , &c.) 

Singhur. — -A strong hill fort, situated about 12 miles south of Poona,* in the 
vicinity of Poorunder. This is one of the fortresses which the Peshwa sur- 
rendered on the 8tli of May, 1817, as a pledge of his sincerity, and which was 
afterwards restored to him. On the rupture next year, it was invested on the 
20th of February, by a detachment under General Pritzler; but its great natu* 
raj strength, and the only assailable point (the gateway) being at so great a 
height, very much increased the difficulties of the undertaking, as ordnance, 
ammunition, and stores, could only be got up to the batteries by manual labour. 
After great exertions, two breaching batteries were constructed, and opened 
against the enemy, who returned the fire with much spirit, but on the 1st of 
March, sent out proposals, and on the same day capitulated. The garrison was 
found to consist of 100 Arabs, 600 Gosains, and 500 natives of the Concan, and 
during the progress of the siege had had 30 men killed, and 100 wounded.— 
( General Pritzler, 

Jejurry. — A Maharatta town of considerable sanctity in the- province of 
Aurangabad, 25 miles S. E. from Poona. Lat. 18° 16' N. long. 74° 19' E. The 
temple at this place is dedicated tb an incarnation of Siva, under the form of 
Kundah Row, which he assumed for the purpose of destroying an enorxnomi 
giant named Manimal. It is built of fine stone, is situated on a high hill in a 
beautiful country, and has a very majestic appearance. Attached to it it ah 



etxohub.] OF AURUNGABAD. 201 

establishment of dancing girls, who in 1792, amounted to 250 in number ; with 
many Brahmins, and beggars innumerable. The Jejurry temple is amply pro- 
vided with funds, of which £6000 are annually expended on account of the idol, 
who has horses and elephants kept for his recreation, and with his spouse is daily 
bathed in rose and Ganges water, although the latter is brought from the dis- 
tance of above 1000 miles. They are also perfumed with otto of roses, and de- 
corated with gems. The revenues are derived from houses and lands given by 
pious persons, and from the offerings of votaries of all descriptions. The dancing 
girls, however numerous, are probably not a source of expense, but rather of 
revenue to the temple. 

Jejurry is also a favourite spot among the Maharattas for performing the cere- 
mony of swinging, which is, however, much less practised in this part of India 
than in Bengal. On these occasions the penitent, to expiate his sins, has a blunt 
hook thrust into the fleshy part of his back below the shoulder blades, after 
which he is hoisted up to the top of a pole, from 20 to 50 feet high, and irom 
thence swung round a transverse beam, until the object is supposed to be accom- 
plished. — ( Moor ; Sfc.) 

Moeeishwar. — This is a town of considerable extent with a good market- 
place. Lat. 18° 16' N. long. 74° 26' E. 34 miles S. E. from Poona. At More- 
ishwar there is a very handsome dome, erected over a small square building, 
which in this province is effected in the following manner. A mound of earth is 
first raised the intended height and shape of the dome or arch, over which the 
stones are placed, and when completed on the outside, the support is removed. 
The inhabitants have but little knowledge of the mechanical powers, in conse- 
quence of which, when a large stone is to be raised, it is dragged up a slope of 
earth made for the purpose, which is afterwards removed ; and it is probably in 
this maimer that the Egyptians raised their enormous architectural masses. — 

( Moor, #c. 8$c.) 

Merud (Amaravati). — This is a large town enclosed with a high wall, and 
commanded by a fort on its southern side, in which there is said to be a gun as 
large as those at the city of Bejapoor. Lat. 18° 12' N. long. 74° 40' E. 47 miles 
S. E. from Poona. 

Rveghur. — A strong fortress on the Ghauts which bound the eastern frontier 
of the Concan, ip a line between Poona and fort Victoria, 34 miles S. W. from 
the first Lat. 18° 12" N. long. 73° 38' E. This was one of the fortresses which 
the Peshwa surrendered on the 8th of May 1817, as a pledge of his sincerity, 
and which was afterwards restored to him. After the rupture in 1818, it was 
besieged by a detachment under Colonel Prother, and capitulated after a siege of 
lidaya. Notwithstanding the stupendous height of the fortress, and the ex- 

VOL* XI. D 0 



202 AURUNGABAD. [pertacbohcr. 

tensive area on its summit, the artillery practice was so excellent, that shells 
were thrown into every part of it, and the palace set on fire, which quickened 
the determination of the enemy to surrender. When possession was taken, the 
Peshwa’s wife, and other public property to the value of five lacks of rupees, 
were discovered. Her highness was permitted to choose her own future place 
of residence. 

Pertacbghur.— A hill fortress among the Western Ghauts of great strength 
and very difficult access, but which surrendered without resistance to a detach' 
ment under Major Thatcher, in May 1818. Lat. 17° 55' N. long. 73? 46' E. 41 
miles S. S. W. from Poona. 



THE PROVINCE OF BEJAPOOR. 


A large province of the Deccan, extending from the 15th to the 18th degree 
of north latitude. On the north it is bounded by the province of Aurang- 
abad ; on the south by the Toombudra, Wurda, and district of Canara , to 
the east it has Aurangabad, and Hyderabad along the course of the Beema river, 
and to the west the Indian ocean. In length, it may be estimated at 320 miles 
by 200 miles the average breadth. 

The western districts of this province are very mountainous, particularly in 
the vicinity of the ghauts ; but towards the east, the country is more level, and 
watered by many fine rivers, the largest of which are the Krishna, the Toombu- 
dra, the Beema, and the Gutpurba. Prior to 1790, the latter was the boundary 
which separated the dominions of Tippoo from those of the Pooa Maharat- 
tas. There is nothing peculiar in the agriculture or productions of this 
province, which are the same as in the other regions of the Deccan. The horses 
reared on the banks of the Beema are held in great estimation by the Maha- 
rattas, and furnish the best cavalry in their armies. Until recently, the whole of 
the sea coast was possessed by this nation, which being little addicted to mari- 
time commerce, whatever traffic did subsist, was usually carried on with the in- 
terior by means of land carriage, but the amount of this species of interchange 
all over the Deccan is considerable. As this portion of Hindostan did not come 
under the sway of the Mogul emperors until long after the death of Abul Fazel, 
and remained but a very short time attached to their throne, we have no ancient 
description of it; the principal modern geographical and territorial subdivisions 
are the following, beginning at the west. 

1. TheConcan. 6. Sackur. 11. Bancapoor. 

2. Colapoor. 7. Raichoor. 12. Gunduck. 

3. Mortizabad. 8. Mudgul. 13. Noorgool. 

4. Assodnagur. 9. Gujundughur. 14. Azunnagur. 

6. Bejapoor district. 10. Annagoondy. 13. Ryebaugh. 

o d 2 



THE PROVINCE 


204 

The principal towns are, Bejapoor, Satarah, Goa, Warree, Colapoor, Darwar, 
Shahnoor, Hoobly, and Merritch. 

The population of this province cannot be compared with the best of the 
British territories ; but is probably equal per square mile to that of the Bala* 
ghaut ceded districts, which being a recent acquisition, have not had time to 
accumulate a redundant population, as is now the case in some of the old pro* 
vinces. Taking these districts as a scale of comparison, the total number of 
inhabitants maybe estimated at 7,000,000, of whom, probably not above one- 
twentieth part are Mahommedans ; the reBt Hindoos and a few Portugueze 
Christians. In Bejapoor, approaching the Krishna from the southward, the 
Maharatta tongue becomes more and more into use ; leaving this river to the 
south, the Canara dialect declines in a similar proportion ; so that the Krishna 
may be deemed the dividing boundary of the two languages, but the Canara is 
rather more spoken to the northward, than the Maharatta to the south of the 
river. The Krishna is also remarkable for separating different styles of building. 
To the south the houses of the lower classes are flat roofed, and covered with 
mud and clay ; northward the roofs are pitched and thatched. 

After the dissolution of Bhamenee dynasty of the Deccan. Abou ul Muzuf- 
fer Adil Shah, founded the Adil Shahy sovereignty of Bejapoor. A. D. 1489, 
comprehending within the circle of his government, all the country from the 
river Beema to Bejapoor. In 1502 he introduced the ceremonies of the Shiah 
sect of Mahommedans, which did not prior to that era exist in the Deccan. He 
died A. D. 1510, his successors were : 

Ismael Adil Shah, died 1534. 

Muloo Adil Shah, died 1557. During his illness, this prince put to death 
several physicians who had failed in effecting his cure, beheading some and 
treading others to death with elephants, so that all the surviving medical prac- 
titioners being alarmed, fled his dominions. 

Ali Adil Shah, assassinated 1579. In the year 1564, the four Mahommedan 
Sultans of the Deccan formed a confederacy against Ram Raja, the Hindoo 
sovereign of Bijanagur ; and having totally defeated and slain him in battle, 
took and plundered his capital. With that Raja ended the long established and 
powerful Hindoo dynasty of Bijanagur. 

Ibrahim Adil Shah II. died 1626. During his reign the Mogul power began 
to be severely felt in the Deccan. 

Mahommed Adil Shah, died A. D. 1660. In this reign Sevajee, the Maharatta, 
molted, which with the Mogul conquests reduced the Bejapoor principality to 
the last extremity. 



OF BEJAPOOR. 205 

Ali Adil Shall the Second. This prince died in 1672, after a turbulent reign, 
In the course of which he enjoyed little more of royalty than the name, his 
country having been usurped by Sevajee and other vassals. 

Seconder Adil Shah, who never acquired any real power, being merely an 
instrument in the hands of his nobility. With him ended the Adil Shahy dy- 
nasty in 1689, when the city of Bejapoor was besieged and taken by Aurengzebe, 
and Seconder Adil Shah made prisoner. This Mahomraedan dynasty of Beja- 
poor was remarkable for the practice of conferring Hindoo titles, they being in 
general exclusively Arabic. 

The destruction of the Bejapoor Deccany empire, and the beginning of that 
of the Maharattas, happened so nearly at the same time, that this province can- 
not with strictness be said ever to have been subject to the throne of Delhi, 
although regularly enumerated in the list of soubahs. During the reign of Au- 
rengzebe its possession was disputed with much slaughter, but his successors 
early abandoned it to the Maharattas, and with them the greatest proportion 
has ever since remained. 

After the conclusion of the war with Dowlet Row Sindia in 1804, the whole 
of the Maharatta territories in this province exhibited a scene of the greatest 
anarchy, and although nominally subject to the Peshwa, his authority scarcely 
extended beyond the city of Poona, and was resisted by every head of a petty 
village. The different chiefs and leaders of banditti, by whom the country was 
occupied, were almost innumerable ; the names and designation of the principal 
were Goklah, Appa Saheb and Bala Saheb (the sons of Purseram Bhow, and 
heads of the Putwurden family), Appah Dessaye, Furkiah, Bapoojee Sindia, 
Madarow Rastia, the Raja of Colapoor. Futteh Singh Boonsla, Chintamunny 
Row (the nephew of Purseram Bhow), Tantia, Punt Pritty Niddy, and others 
of inferior note depending on these leaders. These chiefs were not properly 
jaghiredars, although distinguished by the appellation of the Southern Jaghire- 
dars. They were properly the serinjammy sirdars of the Poona state, and it is 
a peculiarity of the serinjammy lands, that the possession of them may be 
changed annually, being granted for the payment of troops actually employed 
in the service of the state. In fact there were few of the southern jaghiredars 
who had any just pretensions to the territories they occupied in 1803. These 
had in general been grants to their ancestors from the Poona state for military 
service, and that government had long been too much distracted to think of 
resuming them, or even of insisting on the performance of the stipulations of 
service for which they were originally made. The changes of fortune expe- 
rienced by the different jaghiredars, had been occasioned more by their quarrels 
with each other, than by any exertion of authority on the part of the govern- 



206 THE PROVINCE 

ment of which they were nominally the servants. The officers deputed to the 
command of forts and garrisons, had invariably been influenced by the weakness 
of their superiors, the confusion of the empire, and the example of others, to 
endeavour to render their power permanent and hereditary in their own family, 
the accomplishment of which object had been greatly facilitated by the Malta* 
ratta system of paying their demands, by assignment on the revenues of the 
countries where they were employed, a system that gradually leads to the com* 
plete establishment of their personal authority, and the subversion of that of 
their legitimate superior. When the temporary allotment of a country to a jag- 
hiredar, or the assignment of revenue to an officer of government for the the pay- 
ment of his troops takes place, it either ends in their retaining possession, or in 
a ruinous contest to recover the rights of the state ; and the officers of govern- 
ment thus deputed, are, when successful, placed in the exact predicament of 
those they have overthrown, and soon become themselves equally formidable to 
their sovereign. Before the interference of the British, this system rendered 
every province in the Peshwas dominions a scene of petty war, which still to a 
certain degree subsists within the territories of the independent chieftains. 

To reduce this chaos to order and save the country from utter depopulation, 
the British government was obliged to interpose its arbitration, and began by 
endeavouring to ascertain the extent of the service to which the Peshwa was 
entitled from the Southern Jaghiredars, with the view of inducing them to afford 
that service. On the other hand it was resolved to protect the jaghiredars from 
the oppression of the Peshwa’s government, and to guarantee their possessions 
while they continued to serve the Peshwa with fidelity. On this occasion the 
Marquis Wellesley was obliged to express his utmost disapprobation of the 
Peshwas meditated projects of vengeance and rapine, against the principal 
families of the Maharatta state in immediate subjection to Poona, and more es- 
pecially his highness's designs against the Putwurden family. 

To accomplish this most desireable arrangement, and to restore tranquillity 
and good government to a region long deprived of both, General Arthur Welles- 
ley (now Duke of Wellington) was instructed to enter into negotiations with the 
different chiefs, during his march southwards in 1804 , to reconcile their dissen- 
sions, and adjust their disputes with their sovereign the Peshwa. Difficult as 
the task appeared, he effected it without bloodshed, by his temperate and de- 
cided conduct, and more especially by the penetration with which he at once 
fixed on the proper mode of commencing the settlement of so many complicated 
claims and discordant interests, m which he was ably seco ided by the late Ge- 
neral Sir Barry Close, then resident at Poona, and Mr. Strachey, whom General 
ellesley had appointed agent with the Southern Jaghiredars. In 1818» the 



B&JAPOOA city*] OF BEJAPOOR, QffJ 

whole of this vast province, with the exception of the territory reserved for the 
Satarah Raja, became directly subject to the British government, in consequence 
of the expulsion of the ex-Peshwa Bajerow, as has been more fully detailed under 
the article Maharatta. — (MS. Feriskta, Scott , Sir John Malcolm^ Moor , Wilks , &$c.) 

Bejapoor (Vyaya Pura , the impregnable city). — The ancient capital of the 
province. In old European books of travels it is generally written Viziapoor. 
Lat. 16° 40' N. long. 75° 47' E. 

When taken by Aurengzebe in person, A. D. 1689, it stood on an extensive 
plain, and the fort from description appears to have been one of the largest in 
the world. Between it and the city wall there was room for 15,000 cavalry to 
encamp. Within the citadel was the kings palace, the houses of the nobility 
and large magazines, besides many extensive gardens, and round the whole a 
deep ditch always well supplied with water. There were also without the walls 
very large suburbs and noble palaces. It is asserted by the natives with their 
usual proneness to exaggeration, that during its flourishing state it contained 
984,000 inhabited houses, and 1600 mosques. After its capture the waters of 
the reservoirs and well in the fort decreased, and the country around became 
waste to a considerable distance. At present it exhibits to the view almost 
nothing but shapeless heaps of ruins, which prove the vast magnitude of the 
city while it flourished the capital of an independent sovereignty. 

The outer wall on the western side runs nearly north and south and is of great 
* extent. It is a thick stone wall about 20 feet high, with a ditch and rampart. 
There are capacious towers, built of large hewn stones, at the distance of every 
100 yards; but are, as well as the wall, much neglected, having in many places 
fallen mto the ditch, and being in others covered with rubbish. A mile and a 
half from the western wall is a town called Toorvee, built on the remains of the 
former city, and surrounded by magnificent piles of ruins, among which are the 
tombs of several Mahommedan saints, attended by their devotees. The covered 
way of the fort is from 150 to 200 yards broad, and the ditch, now filled up with 
rubbish appears to have been a most formidable one, excavated out of the solid 
rock on which the fort stands. The curtain is nearly 40 feet high from the berm 
of the ditch, entirely built of huge stones strongly cemented, and frequently 
adorned with sculptural representations of lions, tigers* &c. The towers flanking 
the curtain are very numerous, and of vast size, built of the same kind of mate- 
rials. Measured by the counterscarp of the ditch, the fort is probably about 
eight miles in circumference. The curtain and towers in the southern face are 
most battered, as it was against these that Aurengzebe planted his batteries. 

The mosque and mausoleum of Ibrahim Adil Shah are built on a basement 130 
yards in length and 52 in breadth, and raised 15 feet Inside it is a plain build* 



THE PROVINCE 


208 


[bejaboor cm*. 


ing, 1 15 by 76, covered by an immense dome, raised on arches. The mausoleum 
is a room 57 feet square, enclosed by two verandas 13 feet broad, and 22 feet 
high, besides these there are many other public buildings much injured by time 
and the Maharattas. 

The fort in the interior is adorned with many handsome edifices in rather 
better preservation than the works. The great mosque is 97 yards by 55. The 
wings, 15 yards broad, project 73 yards from the north and south ends, enclosing 
on three sides with the body of the mosque, a large reservoir for water, and a 
fountain. The mausoleum ot Sultan Mahmood Shah is a plain building, 153 
feet square, over which is reared a dome of 117 feet diameter in its concavity, 
and called by the natives the great cupola. 

The inner fort consists of a strong curtain, frequent towers of a large size, a 
fausse-bray, ditch, and covered way ; the whole buiit of massy materials and well 
constructed. The ditch is extremely wide, and said to have been 100 yards; but 
itsr original depth cannot now be discovered, being nearly filled up with rubbish. 
The fort inside is a heap of ruins, none of the buildings being in any repair, 
except a handsome little mosque built by Ali Adil Shah. This inner fort was 
kept exclusively for the palaces of the kings, and accommodation of their 
attendants. The fort now contains several distinct towns, and although so great 
a part is covered with ruins, there is still room found for some com fields and 
extensive enclosures. The inner fort which is more than a mile in circumference, 
appears but as a speck m the larger one, which, in its turn, is almost lost in the * 
extent occupied by the outer wall of the city. 

Most of the buildings (the palaces in the fort excepted) appear to have had 
little or no wood used in their construction. They are, in general, built of 
the massy stone, and in the most durable style, notwithstanding which the 
workmanship is minutely elegant. The city is well watered, having besides 
numerous wells several rivulets running through it. To the north there are but 
few hills, the country being in general level, and the soil rich, yet it is described 
as destitute of wood, and but little cultivated. The city is thinly inhabited, 
and has long been comprehended in that part of the Bejapoor province belong* 
ing to the Maharattas. According to tradition it must at one time have been 
immensely rich ; and it is said that large sums of money and valuables are «t il l 
found secreted among the ruins. Some enormous cannon still remaining here, 
corresponding with the cyclopean magnitude of the fort. Only 12 fire now left. 
Two of these guns are constructed of bars of iron hooped round, not upon caff* 
riages but lying on blocks of wood. The brass gun is fixed on its centre, op an 
immense iron stuck in the ground, and grasping its trunnions in tUe maime r of 
a swivel, its breach resting on a block of wood supported by a thick w all, ao 



OF BEJAPOOR. 


TOOMBUDRA RIVER.] 


209 


that it cannot recoil. For the calibre of this gun, an iron bullet weighing 2646 
pounds would be required. In 1818, during the rupture with the Peshwa, Ge- 
neral Munro sent a party of peons to occupy the country round Bejapoor, in 
order to deprive the enemy of its resources. — ( Moor , Scott , #c. fyc.) 

Krishna River. — This river has its source at Mahabillysir, among the Wes- 
tern Ghauts, and not more than 42 miles in a straight direction from the west 
coast of India. From thence it proceeds in a south-westerly direction until 
it passes Merritch, where its bulk is greatly increased by the junction of the 
Warnah river, formed by a variety of streamlets that fall from the Ghauts. 
After this, bending more to the eastward, it receives the accession of the Mal- 
purba, Gutpurba, Beema, and Toombudxa, and with an augmented volume 
proceeds to the bay of Bengal, where it forms the northern boundary of the 
Guntoor circar. During its course, which including the windings may be esti- 
mated at 700 miles, it waters and fertilizes the provinces of Bejapoor, Beeder 
and Hyderabad, and the districts of Palnaud, Guntoor, and Condapilly. This 
river, like the Godavery, has high banks for a great part of its course, which 
renders it less useful for the purposes of irrigation than the Ganges and other 
rivers of Bengal* Neither does it at its junction with the sea, present so mag- 
nificent a body of water as the Godavery, being scarcely equal to some of the 
larger branches sent 'off from the main stream by that river. On the other hand 
it is much richer in geifis than the Godavery, or probably than any river of Hin- 
dostan ; for in the Palnaud district during the dry season, diamonds, cats eyes, 
onyxes, and chalcedonies, are asserted to be found, and also a minute portion 
of gold. 

The term Krishna, signifies black, or dark blue, and is the name of the favourite 
deity of the Hindoos — an incarnation of Vishnu, the preserving power. It forms 
the proper boundary of the Deccan to the south, as understood by Mahomme- 
dan authors, who first applied the term with reference to the geographical situ- 
ation of Delhi. The first Mahommedan army that crossed this river, was led in 
1310 by Kafoor, against Dhoor Summooder, the capital of Belial Deo, the sove- 
reign of Kamata, a Hindoo empire then existing, which comprehended all the 
elevated table land above the eastern and western chain of mountains. — ( Wilks, 
Moor, Heyue, 8$c* ) 

Toomtbudra River (Tutiga Bhadra )* — This river commences near Hooly 
Onore, where the two rivers from which it derives its designation meet. The 
l Tunga, which is the northern river, takes its rise in the Western Ghauts, about 
half a degree south of Bednore ; the Bhadra, from a chain of hills, situated to 
the eastward of th^Gbauts, nearly opposite to Mangalore, and known by the 
J &ate of tb Baba Sodden hilb. After flow i n g ftteqgh a jungly country ft# 
troL. it. a* 



210 THE PROVINCE [concak. 

nearly a degree, it joins its waters with the Tunga at Koorly,a sacred village 
near Hooly Onore. From hence taking a sweep first northerly and westerly, 
and afterwards to the east, it continues a very winding course until it falls into 
the Krishna ; and until recently marked the north-western frontier of the Britislt 
dominions in this quarter of Hindostan. — ( Moor , F. Buchanan , $c.) 

Gutpurba River (Gatapurva). — This small river has its source among the 
Western Ghauts, near Gunder Ghur, and after a course of about 100 miles, in- 
cluding windings, falls into the Krishna, and with it proceeds to the bay of 
Bengal. 

Malpurba River. — This stream also rises in the Western Ghauts, from ; 
whence it proceeds easterly with many windings, until after a course of about | 
140 miles it joins the Krishna. t 

Concan ( Cancana ). — A large district in the province of Bejapoor, situated 
between the 15th and 18th degrees of north latitude, and occupying' the whole 
of the sea coast. On the north it is separated from Callianee by the small river 
Sawutry ; on the south is has the British district of Canara ; on the east it is 
bounded by the Western Ghauts ; and on the west by the sea. In length it may 
be estimated at 220 miles, by 35 the average breadth, and may at present be 
considered as marked by three principal subdivisions ; namely, Concan, Bhon- 
solo, and Goa. In the British territorial arrangements, the southern part of the 
Hindoo Concan is included in the district of North Canara ; but in the Hindoo 
geography of the west coast of India, Concan begins at the river Gangawala, 
in lat. 14° 37', where Haiga ends. 

The surface of this country exhibits a gradual declension from the Ghauts to- 
wards the sea, and is intersected by numerous mountain streams, but no river 
of magnitude. There are few coasts so much broken into small bays and har- 
bours as this is, with so straight a general outline. This multitude of shallow 
ports, an uninterrupted view along shore, and on elevated coast favourable to 
distant vision, have fitted this tract of country for a region of piracy. The land 
and sea breezes on the coast of Concan, as well as that of Coromandel, blow 
alternately in 24 hours, and divide the day ; so that vessels sailing along, are 
obliged to keep within sight of land, as the land winds do hot reach more than 
40 miles out to sea. From Zyghur on the sea coast to the Ambah pass, the 
country, although hilly, is rich, capable of cultivation, and tolerably well inha- 
bited ; near Ambah, the mountains rise to a stupendous height, and are as- 
cended with much difficulty. The country produces nearly all the gr ains Of 
Malabar, and the hemp raised in the Concan is said to be stronger than that 
raised above the Ghauts ; but a very unaccountable result attending its cultiva- 
tion is, that the seed will not reproduce the yflme qu anti ty as originally se w n, 



cojtcan.] OP BEJAPOOR. 211 

and in many places even the little seed procured will not grow again next year. 
The only seed that can be depended upon is that imported from above the 
Ghauts, and sold generally at 28 seers for the rupee. It is found also that coco 
nuts cultivated within the influence of the sea air, arrive at maturity much 
earlier, and with less labour, than those planted in the interior of the country. 

The Brahmins properly belonging to the Concan, are of the Paunsh Gauda, or 
north of India division. They alledge that they are the descendants of the 
colony to whom the country was originally given by Parasu Rama. Their prin- 
cipal seat seems to have been Goa, called by them Govay, from whence they 
were expelled by the Fortugueze ; after which they, for the most part, became 
traders. It is asserted that a numerous class of Brahmins, inhabitants of the 
Concan, named Kurrada, still perpetrate human sacrifices to a goddess, who is 
said to prefer in that capacity a Brahmin learned in the Shastras. In public 
situations, many of these are known and respected as intelligent, charitable, and 
humane individuals, who most strenuously deny the present existence of the 
practice. The Concan Brahmins are disclaimed by those of the rest of India ; 
but they have long composed a large portion of the ruling characters in the Ma - 
haratta empire. When a translation of the Lord’s prayer into the Concan lan- 
guage was examined by the missionaries, they found that of 32 words it con- 
tained, 25 were the same as in the Bengalese and Hindostany translations, be- 
sides several Sanscrit words. 

The inhabitants of this coast, from the earliest 1 antiquity, have had a strong 
propensity to piracy. In the 18th century, their depredations were exercised 
upon all ships, indiscriminately, which did not purchase passes from these pi- 
rates. Conajee Angria established a government on this coast, extending 120 
miles, from Tamanah to Bancoote, together with the inland country as far back 
as the mountains, which in some places are 30, and in others not more than 20 
from the sea coast. His family retained the principality for more than 70*years, 
until 1756, when they were subdued and expelled by Admiral Watson and Co- 
lonel Clive. In more recent times, three-fourths of the Concan have been di- 
rectly subject to the Maharatta Peshwa, whose troops garrisoned the innumer- 
able hill fortresses with which it is studded. On the 15th of December, 1816» 
a leader of the Pindaries, named Sheikh Dulloo, quitted the main body at Ner- 
mul in the Nizam’s dominions, and having passed rapidly through the Poona 
territories with about 400 horse, he descended into the Concan by the Amba 
Ghaut, and thence shaped his course due north, plundering the western shores 
of India from the 17th to the 21st degree of north latitude. He returned by 
the valley of the Tuptee and route of Boorhaapoor, from whence, proceeding 
;wrth, he re-crossed the Nerbndda with immense booty, after sustaining a 
\ ' 



212 THE PROVINCE [fort victoria* 

trifling loss in men and horses. This is not likely to occur again* as the country 
was definitively taken possession of by the British government in 1818, and on 
account of its maritime situation, will probably be attached to the presidency 
of Bombay. — (F. Buchanan , Orme, Dunlop , Prinsep , Colonel Walker, Sfc. fyc. Sjc.) 

Fort Victoria (or Bancoot ). — A small fortress situated on a lofty hill near 
the entrance of the Bancoot river, 73 miles S. by E. from Bombay. Lat. 
17° 56' N. long. 73° 12' E. The river was formerly navigable for large ships, 
but the sand bank at the mouth constantly increasing during the south-west 
monsoon, it now only admits a passage for small vessels. Its source is among 
the Western Ghauts, from whence it winds through woody hills and fertile vallies, 
presenting many beautiful views. In 1756, it was a piratical station, when cap- 
tured by Commodore James in concert with the Maharattas, who ceded it 
along with nine villages, the poorest that could be selected, in exchange for Ghe- 
riah; a most improvident bargain, the latter being, even under its present rapa- 
cious rulers, six times more valuable than the former. 

These nine villages which compose the small district attached to Fort Vic- 
toria, are situated on both sides of the river Mahar, commonly called the Ban- 
coot river, and are intermixed with those belonging to the Siddee, and Mafta- 
ratta states. The British village nearest the sea, and which includes the suburbs 
named Bancoot, is Vellass ; that further up the river about 24 miles from the 
fortress, is Dasgaum. In 1812, the prevailing native governments of the Con- 
can were so very oppressive, that the population of the small British territory 
might have been increased until it overflowed. As it was, the inhabitants had 
doubled within the preceding ten years, and nothing prevented a much greater 
augmentation but the want of fresh water, to remedy which government or- 
dered several wells to be dug, and tanks to be repaired. The bare and sterile 
rocks in the vicinity of Bancoot are wholly unproductive, but every spot of land 
is made the most of. Many of the inhabitants, however, gain their subsistence 
by cultivating lands in the adjoining territories belonging to the Maharattas, 
and to the Siddee, while their families and little property remain secure in the 
British villages. The pains they take to render every spot of ground within the 
latter productive, exceeds every degree of exertion that Hindoos were supposed 
capable of; large stones, approaching the size of rocks, being daily removed to 
get at a little scanty soil, while in the contiguous territories many thousand 
acres of prime land are lying waste and unoccupied. The greater proportion 
of the hemp brought down the river from the Maharatta and Siddee villages, is 
cultivated by the Bancoot people, as is also a great proportion of the grain. 

In the Siddee country, and in all the neighbouring Maharatta districts, K 
is customary for the government to contribute a certain turn annually the 



OF BEJAPOOR. 


SEVERNDROOGr.] 


213 


support of the temples and mosques. Within the limits of the British territory, 
there are eleven of the former and ten of the latter, which seems quite enough 
for the population, which in 1812 was estimated at only 17,000 souls. 


Amount of the land revenue for 1813-14 14,499 rupees. 

Customs 12,740 

Sayer, or variable imposts 4,757 


Total 


32,005 


Total amount of charges for the same year, was . 17,737 rupees: 
But Fort Victoria being considered more of a political than revenue settlement, 
accounts for the disproportionate amount of the charges when compared with 
the receipts. The military establishment stationed at Bancoote is composed of 
invalids. When first captured in 1756, the Mahommedans in this and the ad- 
joining territories were numerous, and contributed to supply Bqmbay with 
beeves, which were difficult to be procured along this coast, on account of the 
predominance of the Hindoo religion. But even at present, Bancoote is a very 
insignificant place, there being little or no trade, owing to the superior advan- 
tages presented by the port of Mhar, about 25 miles further up the river, which 
is navigable the whole way. Besides this advantage, Mhar stands at the foot of 
a very principal pass through the mountains leading to Poona, and' is contiguous 
to the passes of Way, Satarah, and Juthin, which are the grand and most fre- 
quented inlets from the Concan to the regions above the Ghauts: All merchan- 
dize, consequently, whether proceeding out of or entering the river, is in the 
first case embarked at Mhar, and in the second destined for it ; that port being 
in fact the emporium of the river ; whereas the population of Bancoot is of the 
poorest description, consisting chiefly of fishermen, Corumbies, and Bandaries, 
who subsist by fishing and cultivation, and have neither capital nor commerce. 
( Dunlap , Sparrow », Orme, fyc. 8$c.) 

Mupdunghur.— - A fortress in the Concan, 80 miles S. S. E. from Bombay, 
and 10 miles E. S. E. from Fort Victoria. Lat. 17° 53' N. long. 73° 24' E. 
During the rupture with the Peshwa, it was captured by a detachment under 
Colonel Kennedy. 

Dabul (Devalaya). — A town in the Concan, 85 miles S. by E. from Bombay. 
Lat 17° 46' N. long. 73° 16' E. 

Seveendroog (Suvama Durga , the Golden Fortress). — A small rocky isle on 
t$ie coast of the Concan, within cannon shot of the continent, 86 miles S. by E. 
from Bombay. Lat. 17° 46 / N. long. 73° 15' E. During the reign of Sahoo 
Raja, the Maharatta sovereign, Conajee Angria, the pirate, revolted ; and having 
seduced one half of the fleet to follow his fortune, he with it took and destroyed 



214 THE PROVINCE [viziadroog. 

the remainder. He afterwards established his head quarters at this place, where 
he and his posterity governed until 1756, when it was taken by Commodore 
James in the Protector frigate, with scarcely any assistance from the Maharatta 
besieging army. — ( Orme , fyc.) 

Anjenwell. — A town and fortress on the sea coast of the Concan, which 
surrendered to the detachment under Colonel Kennedy in May, 1818. Lat. 
17° 33' N. long. 73° 18' E. 100 miles S. by E. from Bombay. 

Zyghur (or Jaighur). — A sea-port on the sea coast of the Concan, 123 miles 
S. by E. from Bombay. Lat. 17° 14' N. long. 73° 23' E. The two points that 
form the entrance of Zyghur bay are about five miles distant, and it is about 
two miles and a half deep. The entrance of the river is about three quarters of 
a mile broad, with three fathoms and a half depth, at the least. The channel is 
navigable for a considerable way inland, and has a large town on the south side 
about 13 miles above the fort. There is no town at the mouth of the river, but 
there are several straggling villages on both sides. There is plenty of good 
water in the upper fort, and at some of the adjacent villages, but in the lower 
fort, and near the usual landing place, the water is brackish. In most respects 
the Zyghur river is as safe and commodious as that of Viziadroog, only a little 
more caution is requisite while entering. At the entrance of both, the water is 
usually quite smooth during the S. W. monsoon ; and inside, vessels of any 
draught of water may lie completely sheltered at all seasons of the year. — (Lieu- 
tenant Domhiicite, §c.) 

Kheir. — A valuable commercial town on the northern branch of the Anjen- 
weel river, 30 miles S. E. from Fort Victoria, and which was occupied by the 
detachment under Colonel Kennedy in 1818. Lat. 17° 4 T N. long. 73°34'E. 

Russaulghur. — A fortress in the Concan situated close to the Western 
Ghauts, which surrendered to the detachment under Colonel Kennedy in 1818. 
Lat. 17° 45' N. long. 73° 40' E. 34 miles S. E. from Fort Victoria 

Viziadroog. — A commodious sea-port on the sea coast of the Concan, which 
has been recently surveyed by * Lieutenant Dominicite. Lat. 0 v N. long. 

E. miles S. by E. from Bombay. The bay here is two miles in breadth, 
with regular soundings over a muddy bottom, of from 8} in the centre to fire 
fathoms near the shore. It is perfectly ’clear of all danger, and the shore may 
be approached anywhere within 300 feet, except off the south point. The river 
is almost half a mile broad, and without a bar ; the soundings at the entrance 
are 3-^ fathoms, and it rather deepens above. It is said to be navigable 25 miles 
inland for vessels under 200 tons, and near the mouth, ships of less than 700 
tons may anchor in safety, sheltered from all winds. Some distance above the 
fort is a wet dock of an irregular shape, 355 feet in length ; greatest breadth QS7 



gheriah.] OF BEJAPOOR. 215 

feet. The north and west sides are built up with masonry, and are still in good 
condition ; the other two sides are cut in the rock. On the S. E, side of this 
dock there is a small passage, or drain, but there are no gates. Having been 
lately much neglected, a considerable quantity of mud and sand has accumulated 
within, and at theentrance, which might be easily removed. When taken pos- 
session of in 1818, there were four gallivats lying in the dock, one called the 
Admiral, about 430 tons burthen. 

The village, or town of Viziadroog, is situated on a piece of table land, and 
stands leather higher than the fort, and in the adjacent vallies there are several 
other villages. Although the river be rather shallow at the entrance, yet after 
Bombay, Viziadroog may be considered the best harbour on the coast, there 
being no bar to the river, or hidden dangers. The common perpendicular rise 
of the tides is eight or nine feet ; in the neaps, five feet. During the north- 
east monsoon, the tide is scarcely perceptible in the bay ; but in the rains, the 
rise is sometimes 12 feet, with a strong ebb tide. — ( Lieutenant Dominicite.) 

Rutnagiierry ( Ratnaghire , the Diamond Mountain ). This fortress stands 
on a neck of land which shelters a small bay from the S. W. monsoon, and on 
the south side is the mouth of a small river not navigable, Lat. 17° 2' N. long. 
73° 25' E. 130 miles S. by E. from Bombay. The vicinity of this place to the 
large town of Rajapoor has prevented its being much frequented, although a 
great deal of the best hemp is grown in the neighbourhood, and coffee of a good 
flavour raised in considerable quantities. It surrendered to the detachment 
under Colonel Kennedy in June, 1818. 

Raj poor (Rajapura). — A large and commercial town in the southern Con- 
can, 96 miles N. N. W. from Goa. Lat. 16° 46' N. long. 73° 25' E. 

Gheriah (Gkirija, flowing from a mountain). — A fortress situated on a pro- 
montory of rocky land in the Concan province, about one mile long and a quar- 
ter of a mile broad, 82 miles N. N. W. from Goa. Lat. 16° 30' N. long. 73° 25' E. 
This rock is joined to the continent by a narrow neck of land, and lies one mile 
from the entrance of a harbour, formed by the mouth of a river which descends 
from the Western Ghauts. 

In 1707, Conajee Angria had established an independent sovereignty here, 
and possessed a numerous piratical fleet. It was taken in 1756 by Admiral 
Watson and Colonel Clive, and all Angria’s fleet destroyed. After the capture 
it was discovered that, notwithstanding the cannonade from the ships had de- 
stroyed most of the artificial works upon which they fired, the rock remained a 
natural and almost impregnable bulwark. There were found in it 200 pieces 'of 
cannon t six brass mortars, and a great quantity of ammunition and naval and 
military stores. Hie money and effects of other kinds amounted to £120,000 



THE PROVINCE 


216 


[WARREE, 


sterling, which was divided among the captors without any reserve either for the 
nation or for the Company. The town and fortress were subsequently trans- 
ferred jto the Maharatta Peshwa. — ( Orme , Bruce , Motet t §c.) 

Dewghur ( Devaghur ). — An island on the coast of Concan, which commands 
a very fine harbour, where vessels of 600 tons may ride in safety within it all 
the monsoon. Lat. 16° 21' N. long. 73° 30' E. 70 miles N. N. W. from Goa. 
The river here is navigable a long way up, and there is a high road to the Ghauts. 
The town and island surrendered to a detachment under Colonel Imlach in 
April, 1818. 

Bhugwuntghuh. — T his fortress stands on a steep rocky hill close to the 
Massoora river, which is about 400 yards wide, with a deep muddy bottom* 
Lat. 16° 8' N. long. 73° 38' E. 57 miles N. W. from Goa. It was captured by a 
detachment under Colonel Imlach in 1818, previous to which great difficulty 
was experienced in making an accessible road to it on account of the rocky and 
hilly nature of the surrounding country. 

Atcheiia. — A town of considerable extent in the southern Concan or Bhoonsla 
country, 56 miles N. from Goa. Lat, 16° IT N. long. 73° 37" E. It may be 
approached by sea within two miles, where the anchorage is in five fathoms with 
a muddy bottom. Formerly from the number of red flags displayed when a 
ship approached, it was supposed to be a place of peculiar sanctity, and a notable 
depot of pirated property. After the reduction of Bhugwuntgfhur in 1818, it 
was occupied by a British detachment, which event completed the conquest of 
Salsee, a district about 120 miles in circumference which had belonged to the 
Pesliwa. 

Bhoksla. — A subdivision of the Concan, bounded on the north by the 
Dewghur river, on the south by the Portugueze district of Goa, and on the west 
by the sea. Like the rest of the territory, it resembles an, inclined plane, with 
an irregular surface, declining in height from the Western Ghauts as it approaches 
the sea. It is also traversed by many mountain streams, such as the Dewghur 
and Acherah, so named from fortresses situated at the junction with the ocean, 
and formerly the resort of the piratical fleets which infested this coast. The 
principal town is Warree or Sawunt Warree, the chief of which is usually de- 
signated with the title of Bhoonsla ; the others of note are Mai wan, Vingoria, 
and Raree. 

Waekee (or Sawunt Warree ), — A small principality in the Concan, the capital 
of which is situated in lat. 15° 56' N, long. 74° E. 29 miles north from Goa. 
The state generally known by the name of Sawuntwarree is a tract of country 
situated principally between the sea and the great Western Ghaut mountains, 
wuit 40 miles in length, extending from the Portugueze settlement of Goa on 



wabkex.] OP BEJAPOOR. 217 

the south to the British possessions in Malwan on the north, and inland about 
25 miles to the mountains. The general aspect of the surface is rocky and 
barren, and except in those parts where with much labour and perseverance it 
has been cleared for the purposes of cultivation, it is close, difficult of access, 
and, covered with jungle. The country in the vicinity of the sea coast is a suc- 
cession of rocky heights on which frequently for many miles not a trace of 
vegetation is to be seen, and the few spots among them that have been brought 
|mder tillage, produce only the poorest kinds of grain. The population of the 
territory is scanty, but its defensive strength considerable, every peasant being 
liable at all seasons to be called on for his services. The maritime portion has 
been so long noted for piracy, that in old maps the tract is always designated 
as the “ pirate coast.” This petty state dates its commencement during the 
time of Sambajee, the successor of Sevajee, the founder of the Maharatta empire 
at which period Luckin Sawunt, the first of the Sawunt family was a Naik in the 
service of the soubahdar appointed by Sambajee ; but having joined the Moguls, 
and signalized himself in their service, he was rewarded by being made chief of 
the five Prants, which title the Rajas of Warree still bear. After Sambajee was 
taken prisoner, the Mogul forces left the country, and Luckin Sawunt established 
himself at Warree, where he was succeeded by his son Khem Sawunt, who 
extended his authority over the whole of the Coodal Prant, with the exception 
of Soonderdroog. The deep-rooted enmity between the Sawunt Warree and 
Colapoor families, traces its origin to the above era, and has subsisted with 
various alternations of success ever since, to the great detriment of their sub- 
jects. 

With the British government this petty state first came in contact about the 
beginning of the 19th century. In 1809, when Positra, in the Gujerat peninsula 
was taken possession of, it was the last piratical station, between the gulf of 
Cuteh and Cape Comorin, the intervening extent of sea coast excepted, adjoining 
to Goa, and belonging to Kemp Sawunt chieftain of Warree. Against this 
marine depredator, circumstances had never permitted the Bombay government 
to proceed further, than by keeping up an annual blockade of his ports at a 
considerable expense, which, together with the perturbed condition of the in- 
terior, secured an immunity (not particularly creditable) to the British commerce 
along the coast of the Concan. In 1812, with a view to the further extirpation 
of piracy, treaties were entered into with the Raja of Colapoor, and the Bhonsla 
or chieftain of Warree, when the fort and island of Soonderdroog (or Malwan) 
frith the three dependant forts of Puddumghur, Rajcote, and Sirjicote, Were 
ceded bythe first, and the fort of Vingorla by the Ranny of Sawunt Wartee. 
These cessions were principally considered of importance as contributing to the 
vor. II, if 



218 THE PROVINCE [**»«* 

suppression of piracy on the west coast of India, and affording complete protec- 
tion to the commerce of Bombay, without having recourse to the inconvenient 
and expensive measure of annually stationing a blockading squadron for that 
purpose. They were also of further advantage as assisting in the coercion of 
the adjacent native powers, and preventing the intrusion of foreign enemies. 

In 1814, the districts of Maloondy and Varada were taken possession of by 
the British troops, having been ceded by the Raja of Colapoor/' yet the Ranny 
of Sawunt Warree, Durgabhye Bhonsla, continued to make collections, and 
persevered with most extraordinary obstinacy until compelled by main force to 
to desist. After this she endeavoured to cut off all intercourse between Malwam 
and Goa, through the Warree territories, and to levy duties on the Carhefe 
creek ; indeed the distracted state of her government was such, that she pos+ 
sessed little or no controul over the troops and officers who received her pay. \ 
In 1815 the long pending disputes between the two rival princesses of Sawunt 
Warree, the Rannies Durgabhye and Dadeebhye, and their partizans, broke out 
into hostilities, and both parties used every artifice to procure the support of the 
British government, but every encouragement was withheld. These commotions 
also occasioned a very considerable emigration of the inhabitants, both to the 
British- and Portugueze territories, and consequences soon ensued detrimental 
to the tranquillity of the adjacent countries, as parties of armed men crossed the 
boundaries, both in pursuit of each other, and for the purpose of predatory 
aggression. The Ranny Durgabhye, who had apparent possession of the throne, 
disavowed all these acts, and acknowledged her inability to punish them, and 
application to the Peshwa, her feudal superior, was found be equally unavail- 
ing. Under these tantalizing circumstances no remedy appeared, except the 
endeavouring by remonstrance at Warree to remove each ground of complaint as 
it occurred. In reality it did not appear that any measure short of the actual 
subjugation of Warree, could prevent the recurrence of these offences, and such 
a conquest would only lead to similar vexations from our new neighbours, the 
half obedient dependants of the greater Maharatta chieftains contiguous to that 
city. The reduction of Warree and its numerous fortresses would have required 
two battalions of Native Infantry, and 500 Europeans, with a proportionate artil- 
lery ; Rairee, at least, could not be attempted with less, and supposing all these 
captured, the enemy might retire to the hill jungles, and from thence harass the 
plains, until all the forts among the Ghaut mountains should be taken, and prac- 
ticable roads be cut through the jungles. Supporting one party against the other 
would be nearly as expensive and inconvenient as taking the country, and 
involve the British government in all the disputes of the restless factions at 
Sawunt Warree, 



tfAXYAX.] OF BEJAPOOR. 319 

The above train of reasoning induced the British government to tolerate the 
aggressions of SSawunt Warree, which were continued throughout the whole of 
1817, in which year also that pugnacious state commenced hostilities against the 
Poriugueze. These disturbances continued throughout the greater part of 1818, 
until at length complaint and remonstrance being found unavailing, a British 
detachment, under General Keir, was marched against Warree the capital, 
which along with the fortresses of Newtee and Rairee were compelled to sur- 
render * — ( Public MS. Documents , Elphinstonc , Dunlop* fyc. §c. 8$c.) 

Malwan (or Soonderdroog ). — A town and fortified island on the west coast of 
India, district of Concan, 33 miles N. N. W. from Goa. Lat. 15° 53' N. long. 
73* 47' E. This fortress with » certain extent of territory was acquired in 1813, 
as above related, from the Raja of Colapoor, and the fort of Vingorla from the 
Ranny of Sawunt Warree ; but- the whole is of very trifling extent, and princi- 
pally occupied to prevent their again becoming, what they have been from the 
earliest dawn of history, the rendezvouzes of piratical fleets. If an exchange 
could be made of Salsee, for the remaining two shares in the nine villages of the 
Maloondy Turuff, formerly subject to the Peshwa, the British possessions about 
Malwan would be concentrated between the Carlee river on the south, and the 
Massoorah on the north, so that the line extending from the one to the other, or 
the eastern sides of the Varada and Maloondy Turuflfc, would be the only part 
not possessing a well-defined natural boundary. These streams are navigable 
nearly as far as the British territory extends, for small craft, which are the only 
useful description of vessels, as the prevailing winds on this coast do not admit 
of sailing up and down the rivers. 

Within this limited territory the assessed lands are of two sorts ; garden and 
arable. The first produces generally all the fruits of the country, but only the 
coco nut and betel nut are regularly taxed, yet a collection is also made from 
the others. The best coco nut trees yield about 125 nuts annually, thg second 
about 50, and the third from 15 to 20 nuts. The produce of the betel nut trees 
is very uncertain ; in some sections it yields three seers, and in others only one, 
which, however, may be tolerably well ascertained by the mere inspection ot the 
tree. The arable land is taxed according to its fitness for the wet or dry culti- 
vation ; the first yields a moiety, and the last a third of the grain produced, to 
government. The more' valuable productions, such as sugar cane, saffron, and 
ginger, pay one-fourtjj to government, but the whole quantity is insignificant. 
The cultivation of hemp, for which the soil is well adapted, may be here earned 
on to any extent; the taxation on this article is either one-third or a fixed money 
payment. Iron maybe reckoned among the productions of the country, and the 
working of it furnishes occupation to many of the inhabitants, who extract the 

r r 2 



220 THE PROVINCE [manta*. 

metal by a very clumsy operation, and afterwards sell it for about four rupees per 
maund. The ore is usually found in detached lumps, and sometimes in re- 
gular rocky strata. 

All the governments under which this tract has fallen, appear to have been 
sensible of the advantage of giving the cultivator some title to benefit by the 
result of his labours, and accordingly the right of possession is considered a 
more valid tenure than those confirmed by grants or sunnuds, the necessity for 
which implying some doubt as to the claim, or that the property was of recent 
acquisition. The cessions attached to Malwan are so thinly peopled, that no 
scarcity of ground has yet been experienced, and owing to the poverty of the 
inhabitants a long time must elapse before the ground now waste can oe brought 
under tillage. So far back as 1760, a territorial settlement took place, founded 
on the following experiment : — Samples of the coco nuts of each division were 
selected and broken, the kernels dried, and the assessment fixed according to the 
weight of copra, or dried coco nut, that remained. At present the sayer, or 
variable imposts, levied here, consist of duties collected on spirituous liquors 
and on drugs; a small ground rent on shops, and a poll tax from the fishermen, 
continued as having pre-existed during the Maharatta domination. On account 
of its advantageous situation, excellent harbour, and the security of property, 
the trade of Malwan is on the increase, especially since the Colapoor Raja 
agreed to adjust the transit duties through his dominions on liberal principles. 
These rates were then regulated so as to afford a reduction of one-third of the 
former duties, and are exacted at two stations only, instead of the prior mode 
of permitting the garrison of every petty fortress to levy an arbitrary tax on all 
goods passing through their precincts. In 1812, the total revenue accruing 
from Malwan was only 24,000 rupees; in 1813-14, the total receipts were. 


Of land revenue 25,917 rupees. 

Sayer, or variable imposts 10,099 

Customs 1,220 


Total .... 38,236 


And the total revenue charges, pensions, charitable allow- 
ances, jaghires, &c. &c. 24,039 rupees. 

While the Sawunt Warree governmenrexisted, enormous sums were extorted 
from the peasantry under the denomination of village expenses, in many cases 
amounting to half or two-thirds of the revenue actually paid. These, and other 
abuses rendered it necessary to simplify the fiscal collections, to render them 
more intelligible to the cultivator iy fixing a determinate and specific sum, not 



O0A.] OF BEJAPOOR. 221 

to be altered or exceeded. In the particular section of territory ceded by the 
Col&poor Raja, the British government sanctioned considerable allowances for 
the support of temples and religious establishments ; but in 1814 it was disco- 
vered that no less than ten religious grants had been made by the Warree go- 
vernment, after the cession of certain lands attached to Malwan, and when the 
authority of that state to confer such donations no longer existed. So difficult 
is it to unravel native chicane, that these grants, supposing them genuine, had all 
been sanctioned by the Bombay presidency, but next year, on the discovery of 
the imposition that had been practised, they were all cancelled. 

In this, as in every other Maharatta government, the administration of justice 
appears to have been but a secondary consideration, and no regular system for 
its distribution seems ever to have been established. While subject to that nation, 
it was customary for the complainant to repair to the principal person in the 
neighbourhood, who either listened to his stpry or dismissed him, according as 
the result promised to be lucrative or otherwise. Capital punishments appear to 
have been unknown, the most atrocious crimes admitting of pecuniary compen- 
sation, graduated by the means of the perpetrator. Treason was always punish- 
ed with death, and in some other cases mutilation took place. — ( Dunlop, Public 
MS. Documents, §c.) 

VinOorla. — A town and small district in the Concan, within the limits 
attached to the British district of Malwan, and 29 miles N. N. W. from Goa. 
Lat. 15° 48' N. long. 73° 47' E. This small section of territory, the total reve- 
nue of which is only 3000 rupees, was ceded by the Ranny of Warree in 1812, 
who, nevertheless, persevered with singular obstinacy in endeavouring to levy 
tribute of the inhabitants ; but in 1814, she was finally excluded from all parti- 
cipation in ihe collection of duties, or other acts of sovereignty, within the sub- 
divisions of Maloondy, Varada, and Vingorla. 

Raree.— A town in the Southern Concan, 21 miles N. W. from Goa. L at. 
16° 43 / N. long. 73° 48 E. On the 14th February, 1819, this place was besieged 
by Sir William Keir, and the advanced works being captured by a detachment 
under Colonel Clifford, the garrison evacuated it during the night. The British 
loss was 8 killed and 25 wounded. 

Newtee. — This place surrendered on the 4th of December, 1818, after being 
completely invested by the force under Sir William Keir. Lat. 15° 55' N. long. 
73° 40 f E. 38 miles N. N. W. from Goa. 

Rungara. — A town in the province of Bejapoor, 48 miles north from Goa. 
Lat 16* 12' N. long. 74° 8' E. 

Goa ( Govay ). — A populous town situated in the southern portion of the 
Concan, and the capital of the Portuguese possessions in India. Lat 15°3 Of N. 



222 THE PROVINCE [ooa. 

long. 74° 2' E. 250 miles S. S> E. from Bombay. This place consists of two 
distinct cities to which the name is applied. The old city is about eight miles 
up the river, but is now almost deserted by the secular Portuguese, it being un- 
healthy and the seat of the inquisition. It contains many magnificent churches, 
and exhibits specimens of architecture superior to any thing attempted by 
Europeans in any other part of India, particularly the cathedral and the church 
and convent of the Augustines. Over the palace gate of the city is the statue 
of Vasco de Gama. 

The viceroy and chief Portuguese inhabitants reside at New Goa, which is at 
the mouth of the river, within the forts of the harbour. Formerly a consider- 
able trade in the manufacture of arrack was carried on here, but it has been al- 
most entirely transferred from Goa to Batavia. The Goa arrack is made from 
the vegetable juice of the palm tree called toddy ; the Batavia arrack is made 
from rice ana sugar. While the Portugueze European trade lasted, it was 
carried on entirely on account of the king, there being no records extant of 
voyages From Portugal to India on account of individual Portugueze merchants. 
In 1808, it was estimated that there were 200 churches and chapels within the 
limits of the Goa province, and above 2000 priests. Including the islands, the 
Portugueze still possess territory in the neighbourhood of Goa, 40 miles in 
length by 20 in breadth. The dialect most prevalent is a mixture of the 
European with the Canara and Maharatta languages ; but. the European Por- 
tugueze is also understood by a great majority 

Goa was taken from the Hindoo Rajas of Rijanagur by the Bhamenee Ma- 
hommedan sovereigns of the Deccan, about A. D. 1469: and in 1510 was be- 
sieged and taken by Albuquerque, when he strengthened the fortifications and 
made it the capital of the Portugueze dominions in the east. He was recalled 
in 1518, at which period the Portugueze power in India had reached its greatest 
height, and from that time declined. It does not appear that they ever possessed 
any considerable extent of territory, although they kept on foot a large army of 
Europeans, and they may be said rather to have disturbed and pillaged India, 
than to have conquered it, or carried on any regular commerce. In 1580, the 
Portugueze possessed the following places in India, viz. — Diu, Damaun, Choul, 
Bassein, Salsette, Bombay, and Goa. They had factories at and influenced the 
government of Dabul, Onore, Barcelore, Mangalore, Cananore, Calicut, Cran* 
ganore, Cochin, and Quilon. They had several establishments in the maritime 
parts of Ceylon, and factories in the bay of Bengal, at Masulipatam, Negapa- 
tam, and St. Thome, with commercial stations in the province of Bengal. In 
addition to these they possessed the city of Malacca, and had trading factories in 
the countries which comprise the modem Birman, empire and district of Chitta- 



OF BEJAPOOR. 


004 .] 


223 


gong. In the Eastern Archipelago they enjoyed the trade of all the Spice Islands 
and a considerable intercourse with Japan and China, but they did not acquire 
Macao until 1586. 

After the conquest of Portugal in 1580, by Philip the Second of Spain, the 
connexion betwixt the Portugueze settlement and the mother country was very 
much loosened, and the intercourse abridged. In the three years (1620 to 
1622) that Heraan de Albuquerque was viceroy, he never once received any 
letter of instruction or information from the court of Spain ; the colonies must 
consequently have been supported entirely from their own resources, while in- 
volved in a destructive war with the Dutch. The vices of their internal govern- 
ment, and exorbitant power of the priests, assisted to hasten their decay. The 
viceroy never had any power over the inquisition, and was himself liable to its 
censures. Towards the conclusion of the revolutionary war, the settlement 
seemed again abandoned by the mother country, and the poverty of the inha- 
bitants became extreme, many females of the best families being compelled to 
earn a scanty subsistence by making lace or artificial flowers, and working mus- 
lins. By agreement with the court of Brazils it was taken possession of, and for 
some years occupied by a detachment of British troops, but restored after the 
peace of Paris in 1814. 

At present, excepting a very few of the highest classes, the great mass of Por- 
tugueze population throughout India are the spurious descendants of European 
settlers by native women ; and the numerous converts which have united with 
them; many of the latter still retaining several pagan customs and ceremonies, 
to the great regret of their spiritual guides. Of the five Roman Catholic 
churches at Bombay, the archbishop of Goa formerly claimed and exercised an 
ecclesiastical jurisdiction over two ; but these pretensions having been proved to 
have no legitimate basis ; they were in 1813 rejected by the Bombay presidency, 
and the choice of pastors left to the parishioners. The other three catholic 
churches at Bombay are under the titular bishop of Antiphilae, who is apostolic 
vicar to the Pope. 

Since the happy termination of hostilities in Europe, the trade between the 
mother country and Goa has revived, and that to the Brazils so greatly increased, 
th at the settlement is probably now in a better condition than at any time for 
the preceding hundred years. With Macao and the British provinces a small 
commerce is also carried on, the imports consisting principally of piece goods, 
raw silk, grain, sugar, woollens, and a few European articles ; the exports are 
piece, goods, betel nut* hemp, and other articles of moderate amount. Besides 
Goa* the remaining Portugueze possessions in India, are Damaun, Diu, Dhelli 
( on the island of Timor, and Macao in China. 



224 PROVINCE OF [colamok* 

Travelling distance from Poona 245 miles ; from Bombay 292 ; from Delhi 
1158; and from Calcutta 1300 miles. — (C. Buchanan, Bruce, the Missionaries, 
Elmore , Milburn , 8$c* §c. §c.) 

Rama Cape. — A promontory on the west coast of India within the territory 
of Goa. Lat. 25° 5' N. long. 74* 2' E. 

Colapoor (Calapur). — A small independent Maharatta state in the province 
of Bejapoor, the territories of which are situated partly below the Western 
Ghaut mountains in the Concan ; and partly in the elevated land within the 
Ghauts ; but all so intermingled with the possessions of other Maharatta chief- 
tains, that it is quite impossible to discriminate them. Until 1812, the Colapoor 
Raja possessed Malwan and three other fortresses on the sea coast, which were 
then ceded to the British government. At present the principal towns within 
the limits of the district are Colapoor the capital, Pamella, Mulcapoor, and 
Culgong. 

The Colapoor family trace their descent from the famous Sevajee, the founder 
of the Maharatta empire. According to their traditions, Sevajee had two sons, 
Sambha and Rama ; the first of these had two sons, Sahoo and Sambha. Sahoo 
died without issue ; Sambha adopted a son, from whom the Colapoor Raja is 
descended, who being thus the lineal heir of Sevajee in the elder branch, took 
precedence of the Peshwa, and was addressed by him as his superior. Sewai 
Chutterputter (the reigning Raja in 1803) gained a great deal of country, by 
usurpation and conquest, during the confusion in the Peshwa’s dominions, after 
the death of Madhoorow, particularly from his neighbours of the Putwurden 
family, although he was only at war with one branch of it (Appah Saheb’s) ; but 
among the Maharattas such aggressions are not thought incompatible with 
friendship and the relations of peace and amity. 

During Purseram Bhow’s imprisonment from 1796 to 1798, the Colapooi 
Raja seized the opportunity to ravage the territores of his family (the Putwur- 
den), and actually plundered some of the principal towns, such as Savanore, 
Hubely, and Jasgone. The latter was the Bhow’s capital, where he had ex- 
pended a large sum in erecting a palace, which the Raja on this occasion burned 
to the ground and demolished. When liberated, the old Bhow carried on war 
for some time with the Raja, but being defeated and taken prisoner in 1799 , was 
(although a Brahmin) cut to pieces in the presence of the latter* His son Appa 
Saheb then took the command of the troops, animated by the most implacable 
hatred towards the Colapoor chief, declaring he would never forgive or forget an 
act of such atrocity, and expressing his willingness to sacrifice all he bad- in the 
world, and retire a naked mendicant to Benares, if he could only effectually 
revenge the death of his father. But this satisfaction he was not destined to 



colafooe.] OF BEJAPOOR. 225 

enjoy, for just when with the assistance of Dowlet Row Sindi&’s regular infan- 
try he had reduced the fortress of Colapoor to the last extremity, and was on 
the eve of accomplishing his wishes, Sindia, by a secret agreement with his 
enemy, withdrew his troops, and Appa Saheb, unable to prosecute the siege, 
was compelled to retreat. In 1803. a cessation of hostilities was effected by 
the Duke of Wellington. 

In 1804, in consequence of the piracies committed by the Raja of Colapoor’s 
subjects, his ports were blockaded and payment demanded of the money due to 
the Company, and to the British merchants at Bombay. During the time of 
war, the cruiser stationed on the coast was never of sufficient strength to fight one 
the enemy's privateers, on which account, to avoid the disgraceful event ofc her 
capture, General Wellesley recommended a treaty to be entered into with the 
Raja, which if he afterwards broke, it would afford ample ground to the British 
government to get effectually rid of an evil, which in the existing state of its 
power was not creditable. About this period also, Viswas Row Ghautky, and 
Serjee Row Ghautky, two favourites of Sindia, and most persevering depreda- 
tors, took refuge with the Colapoor Raja, after their banditti had been defeated 
and dispersed by General Wellesley. The General, in consequence, in March, 
1804, addressed a letter to the Raja, informing him that he was perfectly aware 
of the family connexion between the Raja and those brothers, and that it was 
not the custom of the British government, nor his own wish, to perpetuate en- 
mities, or deprive those of an asylum who were inclined to live in peace ; for 
which reason he did not call on the Raja to give up the brothers, as he might 
have been justified in doing. At the same time he notified to the Raja, that as 
he had given them an asylum, the British government would consider him re- 
sponsible for their conduct ; and, that if they again assembled troops, which 
could only be intended to disturb the peace of other powers, he (the Raja) 
would be called upon to answer for the injuries they might do, of which circum- 
stance the notification was a friendly warning. He added, “ it is time that the 
nations of India should enjoy some peace, and you may depend upon it that 
the British government will not suffer it to be wantonly disturbed with impunity/ 1 
This letter, as may be anticipated, had the desired effect, and the adjacent ter- 
ritories have since enjoyed a tranquillity unknown for ages. — (MSS. Sir John 
MakohHi Sir Charles Mate, &$c. 8$c.) 

Gots.vooa.~The Raja’s capital, is situated in lat. 16° 19' N. long. 74° 25' R. 
121 miles S. by E. from Poona. Although this place has long been a town of 
considerable note, yet it never having been visited by any British army or tra- 
veller* we have no description of it whatever. It stands in a strong hilly couas- 
vot. H. GO 



226 THE PROVINCE [booshenohur. 

try, but is not supposed capable of opposing any protracted resistance to Euro- 
pean tactics regularly conducted. 

Mulcapoor. — A town in the province of Bejapoor, 47 miles west from Mer- 
ritch. Lat. 16° 64' N. long. 74° & E. 

Mtmutghur.— A town among the Western Ghauts, bordering on the Con- 
can, 48 miles N. W. from Colapoor. Lat. 17° ltf N. long. 73“ 53' E. 

Parnella (Pamalaya ). — This town and district are reputed the most 
healthy in the Maharatta dominions. Lat. 16° 47' N. long. 74 s 17'- E. 32 miles 
west from Merritch. Pawanghur is the capital fortification, and is a place of 
considerable strength. 

On the 4th of April, 1701, Sir William Norris, the ambassador from the Eng- 
lish East India Company (while two separate and rival companies existed), ar- 
rived in Aurengzebe’s camp, then stationed at this place, and on the 28th went 
to the audience with vast pomp. He remained in the camp until the 5th of 
of November following, endeavouring to accomplish the object of his mission, 
practising every eastern intrigue, and liberal both of bribes and promises. He 
was, however, completely out intrigued by the Mogul courtiers, and returned 
much disgusted and chagrined ; the embassy from the beginning having cost the 
English East India Company £80,000 sterling, an enormous sum at that period. 
Towards the conclusion of his negotiation it was intimated to him by Aureng* 
zebe, that the English best knew if it were their interest to trade in his domi- 
nions, and if the ambassador persisted in refusing the obligation required, he knew 
the same road back to England which he had come. The obligation required by 
Aurengzebe was, that the English East India Company should make good all 
losses which his Mogul subjects might sustain from pirates.— (Bruce, Moor, 
§x.) 

. Pawanghur.— A fortified town in the province of Bejapoor, 30 miles west 
from Merritch. Lat. 16* 48' N. long. 74° 19' E. 

Mortizabad. — A large district in the Bejapoor province, situated principally 
between the 17th and 18th degrees of north latitude, and bounded on the west 
by the Western Ghaut mountains. Being situated within that chain the out* 
free has a considerable elevation above the sea, and is diversied by irregular hills 
and vallies, many of the former having strong fortresses on their summits. It is 
traversed in nearly its whole extent by the Krishna river, in its incipient state, 
and also contains its source at Mahabillysir. The chief towns are Satarah, Mer- 
ritch, Sujunghur, and Keraur. 

Booshenohur. — A town in the province of Bejapoor, 77 miles 8. S. S. from 
Pfcma. Lat. 17*32' N. long. 74« 44' E. 



SATAEAH.] OF BEJAPOOR. 227 

Poos a Saojlee.— A town in the province of Bejapoor, 73 miles S. S. E. from 
Poona. Lat. 17° 32' N. long. 74° 30' E. 

Taojoao^. — A town in the Bejapoor province, 15 miles north from Merritcb. 
Lat. 17® 4' N. long. 74° 46' E. This place was fortified by Purseram Bhow, and 
in 1732 was considered the capital of his dominions, being at that date the re- 
sidence of his family. 


SATARAH. 

A strong hill fortress in the province of Bejapoor, 56 miles south from Poona, 
146 miles travelling distance from Bombay. Lat. 17° 42' N. long. 74° 12' E. 
The name signifies seventeen, being the number of walls, towers, and gates it 
was supposed to possess. It is situated about mid way between the Krishna, 
and the Touma ghaut, and stands on the western point of a hill rising from a 
base about seven miles in length from east to west. The fortress is on the highest 
pinnacle of the hill, and the access to it by a narrow winding path, which only 
admits one person at a time. Its appearance is nearly the same on all sides, 
presenting a wall of solid rock from 30 to 40 feet high, nor does it contain within 
any remarkable edifice, the Raja’s palace being the only building of note. At 
no great distance from Satarah are many hill forts of great natural strength, the 
whole territory being in a manner studded with strong positions. Among these 
may be enumerated Chundun, Wundun, Nangherry, Wyratghur, Pandooghur, 
Kummulghur, Kunzulghur, and Kelinga 

Satarah was taken from the sovereign of Bejapoor in 1651, by Sevajee, the 
founder of the Maharatta empire, and here for more than a century his descend- 
ants continued to be imprisoned by their nominal deputies the Peshwas, who 
nevertheless paid them great respect. On succeeding to that office the Peshwa 
repaired to Satarah and received thekhelaut, or dress of investment, from his 
hands, and when he took the field he always went through the formality of having 
an audience to take leave of his pageant master. The country circumjacent 
to Satarah, also benefited by his residence, as it enjoyed an exemption from 
military depredation, and whenever any chief entered within its limits, all the 
insignia of royalty were laid aside, and the nagara, or great drum of the empire 
ow e d to beat The lather of the late Raja was a private silladar, or comman- 
dant Of horse, but being unfortunately of the genuine blood of Sevajee, on the 
demise of his predecessor he was exalted from a state of happy obscurity to the 
splendid misery of a throne and prison. He died in May, 1808, on which event 
the Peshwa Bajerow proceeded to Satarah to superintend his obsequies, and the 
investiture of his successor. After performing these solemnities and assisting at 
the eef^^ of the young Rsja’s marriage, he returned to Poona his capital, 

oo2 



228 the PROVINCE [satarah* 

having previously made arrangements calculated tQ improve the condition of his 
prisoner. 

In 1810, the Peshwa notified to the British resident the probability of the Sa* 
taxah Raja s visiting Poona, and represented that in suchan event, he hoped the 
resident would pay the compliment that was due to his (the Peshwa’s) sovereign, 
by waiting on him at the palace, and afterwards giving him an entertainment at 
the residency. Neither of these occurrences ever happened, but the circum- 
stance of the Peshwa’s wishing the British representative to hold public inter- 
course with the Satarah Raja, certifies how completely the inherent jealousy of 
the Maharatta character had been subdued, by the persevering, honourable and 
correct conduct which it had experienced on the part of the British government. 
It also proved how mildly in recent times state prisoners are dealt with by the 
native politicians, who have a thorough reliance on its good faith. To an Eu- 
ropean diplomatist it appears an anomaly in politics, that intercourse should be 
held with a sovereign which the British government did not acknowledge ; but 
the events of the last twenty years have produced so fundamental a change in 
the ancient relations of the Indian powers, that many of their rights and privi- 
leges had virtually been annulled, and certainly in a great degree forgotten. 

On the expulsion of the Peshwa in 1818, the British government determined 
to reinstate the Satarah Raja in a portion of his ancient dominions, and accord* 
ingly a certain tract of country was reserved for that purpose, and now consti- 
tutes the Satarah dominions. This territory on the west is bounded by the 
Western Ghaut mountains ; on the south by the Warner and Krishna rivers ; on 
the north by the Neera and Beema rivers ; and on the east by the frontier of 
the Nizam’s dominions. The whole area occupies a surface of about 11,000 
square miles. But of the country thus assigned, lands to the value of 17 lacks 
of rupees per annum are still held in jaghire by the old feudatories of the 
Peshwa, whose allegiance and obligations have been transferred to the British 
nation. The net resources of the principality cannot be estimated beyond 1§ 
lacks of rupees per annum. The principal towns are Satarah, Punderpoor, Be- 
japoor, Mahabillysir, Merritch, and Huttany, besides all the hill forts enumerated 
at the commencement of this article ; the whole of which surrendered to Gene* 
ral Pritzler, and to a detachment which he sent through the valley of Wye* 
Most of them are strong, and Kelinga, if resolutely defended, is nearly impreg- 
nable ; but none of them offered any resistance except Paudooghur and Kelinga, 
which were evacuated by die garrisons after discharging a few guns at them* 
vesting army. The country intended for the Raja was in the first instanc e 
occupied by the British government, when Captain Grant was appointed by Mr. 
M p hmsto ne to superintend its administration, which arrangement will be per* 



OF BEJAPOOR. 


WASSOTAH.] 


229 


severed in until the country is thoroughly tranquillized, after which it will be gra- 
dually transferred to the Raja Nur Narrain, who in February, 1819, had only 
completed his 20th year. In the interval the Satarah state will be credited for 
any surplus revenue that may remain ; the disposal of which, as well as of all his 
domestic concerns, will be left entirely to the Raja, who, although utterly ignorant 
of business, is not deficient in natural acuteness. — (Tone, Prinsep , II. Russell, 
Elpkinstonc , Moor ; 8p. fyc.) 

Seerwul. — A town in the province of Bejapoor, 28 miles S. E. from Poona. 
Lat. 18° 8' N. long. 74° 10' E. 

Mahabillysir ( Mahabalimra). — At this place, distant about 43 miles from 
the western coast of India, the river Krishna has its source, and from hence it 
travels the whole way across to the bay of Bengal. The spot is of course much 
venerated by the Hindoos. 

Whte. — A Hindoo place of pilgrimage near the source of the Krishna, 35 
miles south from Poona. Lat. 18° N.-long. 74° 5' E. 

Pertaubghur. — A town in the Bejapoor province 39 miles E. from Fort Vic- 
toria. Lat. 17° 55' N. long. 73° 47' E. 

Wassotah. — A fortress in the Bejapoor province, situated among the Western 
Ghauts, 30 miles S. S. W. from Satarah. This fortress stands ai the end of an 
extremely narrow valley, and is in figure a triangle, the base to the east, the other 
two sides run down into the Concan, a perpendicular sheet of rock from 2 to 
3000 feet high. Old Wassotah is a rock higher than New Wassotah, connected 
at its base with the latter, its summit being distant about 1000 yards, com- 
manding and enfilading the eastern face of New Wassotah, but over a chasm 1500 
feet in depth. The adjacent scenery is of the grandest description. Most of 
the mountains that here extend west into the Concan, present nearly perpen- 
dicular faces of rock from 500 to 2000 feet high, while the view to the east pre- 
sents a striking contrast to the barren aspect of the west. Mountains appear 
to rise on mountains ; the narrow vallies and slopes are covered with forest trees 
and thick underwood, through which rivulets are perceptible, while the summits 
occasionally exhibit patches of flowering shrubs. These forests abound with the 
pepper vine, the Malacca cane (of which walking sticks are made), several trees 
of bastard nutmeg with the fruit on them are seen, besides numerous varieties of 
flowering shrubs and aromatic plants. 

It waft besieged during the war of 1818, when the Satarah Raja joined Mr. 
Elphinstone in the camp on the 4th of April, and the Peshwas commandant, 
Bitasker Punt, still refusing to surrender, die batteries were opened at the risk 
of sacrificing die families of the Satarah princes, as also Messrs. Hunter and 



230 THE PROVINCE [assomtaguk. 

Morrison, British officers, then confined in. the fort. The mortar battery being 
erected on old Wassotah, the descent of every shell could be observed, end 
appeared to have little effect, yet on the ensuing morning the commandant and 
garrison unexpectedly tendered their submission and gave up die place, which 
from its immense natural strength might have been a work of much time and 
difficulty. The wives of the Satarah princes were thus released and restored 
unhurt to their husbands, along with family jewels to the value of three lacks of 
rupees. Fortunately only two female servants were wounded by the explosion 
of the shells. — ( Public Journals, fyc.) 

Ambau Ghaut.— A pass from the Concan province on the west coast oflndia, 
up the Western Ghauts or chain of mountains, to the interior. Lat. 17° 1' N. 
long. 73° 56' £. 

Touuna Ghaut. — A pass from the Concan to the interior through the Western 
Ghaut mountains. Lat. 17° 35' N. long. 73® 50' E. 

Cauhak. — T his is a town of considerable size, being a mile in length, and 
nearly as much in breadth, well inhabited, and with a good market. Lat. 17* 
20' N. long. 74° 22' E. 86 miles S. by E. from Poona. Nearly in the centre of 
the town are two pagodas of great height and elegant workmanship. There is 
a fort here, but without guns. From hence to Satarah is a pleasant valley> in* 
tersected by many streams, and well peopled and cultivated. — ( Moor, Sgc.) 

Merhitch ( Marichi, producing pepper ). — A town of considerable note in the 
province of Bejapoor, 125 miles S. S. E. from Poona. Lat. 16° 51' N. long. 74* 
47' E. Before the Mahommedan invasion this was the capital of a Hindoo prin- 
cipality : but in modem times it has been the seat of government of different 
Maharatta chieftains, such as Purseram Bhow and Rastia, and is still a tows of 
considerable extent and importance. It was taken by Hyder in 1778. but was 
not retained by him. At present it is the head quarters of ChintanMn Row, 
one of the principal Southern Jaghiredars, but it is within the limits of the ter- 
ritories reserved for the Satarah Raja. 

Eynapoor. — A small town in the Bejapoor province, 16 miles S. E. from 
M witch. Lat.' 16° 45' N. long. 75° 2' E. This a town of considerable size in 
which there are some Mahommedan families, who subsist on the produce of 
charitable lands granted in former times. 

. Nanzereh.— A town in. the province of Bejapoor, 45 mites N. fey E. from 
Merritch, Lat 17° 23' N. long. 75° 10 E. 

Assodnaouh (A-nadnagar, the city of lions), — A Maharatta district in the prq» 
vince of Bejapoor, bounded on the north-east by the rivers Neera and Beema. 
Like the rest of the province it has an irregular surface, but having many MB 



OF BEJAPOOR. 


RUNDERP OOE.J 


231 


streams used for the purposes of irrigation is fertile, and very productive when 
properly cultivated. The chief towns are Punderpoor, Khuttaow, Nanzereh, 
mi Salpa. 

Tattora. — A town in the province of Bejapoor, 53 miles S. S. E. from the 
city of Poona. Lat. 17° 53' N. long. 74° 29' E. 

Punderpoor (Punyadharapura ). — This town stands on the left bank of the 
Beema river, 110 miles S. E. from Poona. Lat. 17°42'N. long. 75° 26' E. 
It is not Very large but regularly and well built. The streets are broad, well 
paved, and adorned with handsome houses, almost all the principal members of 
the Maharatta empire having dwellings here. The ex-Peslnva’s house is hand- 
some, but Tuckojee Holcar’s is still more elegant. Nana Fumavese, Rastia, 
Purseram Bhow, and others had houses here. Sindia has not any place of resi- 
dence, but his mother had several. The market is very extensive and amply 
supplied not only with grain, cloth, and the productions of the country, but also 
with a variety of English articles, there being a whole street of Boras’ (Mahom- 
xnedan pedlers) shops, in which the merchants of Bombay and Poona are con- 
cerned. The first story of the buildings here are of stone, the second of brick, 
and make a handsome appearance; leading from the town to the river are several 
fine ranges of stone steps, and the front next the river is faced with a wall of 
atone. 

Punderpoor is very populous and in a comparative state of prosperity. The 
country to the south is well wooded and watered, and near the town the soil is 
good ; but the Brahmins assert that the lands around it are so holy that no grain 
will grow on them, and that they produce nothing but a consecrated shrub. 
The temple here is dedicated to a subordinate incarnation of Vishnu, under the 
name of Wittoba, which is said to have befallen at no very remote period. He 
is sculptured in stone about the size of a man, and standing with his feet parallel 
to each other. 

In more recent times, Punderpoor has gained additional celebrity, as having 
been the scene where the assassination of Gungadhur Shastry, by the hired 
bravoes of the Peshwa and his minister Trimbuckjee, was perpetrated. Tills 
event, the direful spring of many woes to Bajerow, took place on the 14th July, 
1815. The Shastry above named was a Brahmin of the highest caste, of great 
reputation for sanctity, and was then accredited as a foreign ■ ambassador at the 
Peshw&’s court under the special guarantee of the British government. The 
mode in which this murder was effected, during the solemnities of religion, in a 
holy city where myriads of pilgrims were collected, and in the very precincts of 
the sacred temple, struck the superstitious minds of the Hindoos with singular 
karor, fiw bad as the Maharattas are they have always detested assassins. With 



238 THE PROVINCE [huttaity* 

respect to the immediate agent, Trimbuckjee, he declared he was so busy sweep* 
ing the temple that he knew nothing about it ; but the perpetrators were seen 
both to issue from the temple and to return to it while he was there. During the 
war which ensued, the consequences resulting from this most atrocious act were 
extremely beneficial to the British nation, which stood forth the avengers of a 
Brahmin ambassador murdered while performing the duties of his religion. 
This conciliated the popular favour even within the Peshwa’s own dominions* 
and the impression lasted much longer than the immediate event that gave rise 
to it. Two years afterwards when a rupture occurred with nearly all the Maha~ 
ratta powers, the Peshwa’s cause sustained vast detriment from its being traced 
to the foul murder of this Brahmin, and the indifference shewn at last to the 
fall of the dynasty, originated greatly from its being considered a judgment on 
Bajerow for his participation in the crime, while the murder of Narrain Row by 
his father (Ragobah) was still unexpiated. — ( Moor , Prinscp, fyc. fyc.) 

Nursingpooh. — A town in the province of Bejapoor, 93 miles E. S. E. from 
Poona. Lat. 17° 55' N. long. 75° 16' E. 

Ashta. — A village in the vicinity of Punderpoor, where, in February,. 1818, 
General Smith came up with and defeated the Maharattas, when Goklah, the 
commander in chief of the Peshwa’s armies, two other leaders, and between 
2 and 300 men were slain. The Peshwa himself escaped on horseback with 
great difficulty, while the Satarah Raja, his two brothers, and mother, were 
rescued, and brought into General Smiths camp. 

Bejapoor. — A large subdivision of the Bejapoor province, bounded on the 
north, west, and south, by the Beema, Maun, Angurry, and Krishna rivers. 
While the seat of an independent sovereignty it overflowed with riches and 
population, but is now comparatively poor and desolate. The chief towns are 
Bejapoor (already described), Huttany and Mungulwara. 

Tulsung. — A town in the province of Bejapoor, 15 miles west front the city 
of that name. Lat. 16° 45' N. long. 75° 34 E. 

Karajee. — A small town in the province of Bejapoou 45 miles N* E.' f)rom 
Merritch. Lat. 17° 26' N. long. 75° 28' E. In this place nre a considerable 
number of Mahommedans who Subsist mostly on alms, in a state of filth and 
sloth. These Mussulmaun devotees, although the most intolerant on the face of 
the earth, crave and take charity from all religions, — ( Moofr, $c.) 

Huttany.— A large and populous town, situated 35 miles 7 west from the citjr 
of Bejapoor. Lat. 16° '43' N. long. 75° 15' E. This place carries on an extent 
sive commerce with Bombay, Surat, Rachore, and other emporiums* The ran* 
nufactures here are silk and cotton Sanees, piece goods* &c.; but the st a pl e 
article is grain. The town is enclosed by a.wafi and ditch of no ftnat texe^^ 



raichoor.] OF BEJAPOOR. 233 

and there is a stone fort which scarcely deserves the name. Here is an excellent 
durrumsalla, or place of accommodation for travellers, from the appearance of 
which the importance of a town throughout the province of Bejapoor may gene- 
rally be estimated. It is capable of lodging 500 persons, and the horses and 
camels are picketed round the building, which is handsomely built of free stone. 

Huttany was a considerable place in 1G79, when it was taken from Sevajee, 
who had reduced it by the confederates from Bejapoor, who proposed to sell 
the inhabitants for slaves; but this measure was warmly opposed by Sambhajee, 
Sevajee’s revolted son, who not being able to carry his point, became reconciled 
to his father. The English factory at Carwar in North Canara, about the middle 
of the 17th century, had considerable dealings at Huttany ; but on account of 
its turbulence and frequent revolutions the intercourse was discontinued.— 
( Moor t §c.) 

Mungulwaha ( Mangalavara). — A considerable town in the province of Be- 
japoor fortified with a stone wall and possessing a good bazar. Lat. 17° 31' N. 
long. 75° 33' E. 16 miles S. E. from Punderpoor. The adjacent country is strong 
and uncultivated. 

Sackur. — A district belonging to the Nizam in the province of Bejapoor, 
situated between the 16th and 17th degrees of north latitude, and named by the 
Mahommedans Nusseritabad. It is comprehended within the angle formed near 
the junction of the Krishna and Beema rivers, and contains much fertile land, 
very imperfectly peopled and cultivated. The chief towns are Sackur and Soo- 
rapoor. The town of- Sackur stands in lat. 16° 36' N. long. 76° 47 E. 65 miles 
E. by S. from the city of Bejapoor. 

Soorapooh. — A town in the province of Bejapoor, 65 miles S. E. from the 
city of that name. Lat. 13° 36* N. long. 70" 47' E. 

Raichoor ( Rachur), — This district is situated at the south-western extre- 
mity of the Bejapoor province, within the fork formed by the channels of the 
Krishna and Toombudra rivers. Being to the south of the Krishna river, it 
properly belongs to that division of Hindostan lying to the south of the Deccan, 
but is inserted here as a component part of the Bejapoor province. The chief 
towns are Raichoor, Paughtoor, and Culloor. 

Raichoor. — The capital of the above district, 42 miles north from Adoni. 
Lat. 16° 9' N. long. 77° 20' E. This is an irregularly built town, being an old 
fort with some new works, commanded by a hill and by some rising grounds 
near it. In point of rank it was the second town in the jaghire of Bazalet Jung, 
son to Nizam ul Mulk, and brother to the late Nizam ud Dowlah. Adoni was 
his capital and continued after his death to be that of his son Darah Jah, until 
Tippoo took it from him, and nearly destroyed it. On this event he removed 

vou n. H H 



234 THE PROVINCE [ann agoondy. 

to Raichoor, which had the advantage of greater distance from so rapacious and 
formidable a neighbour. Here, however, he suffered nearly as much from his 
uncle, the Nizam, who imposed so high a tribute, that it reduced him to the 
condition of a mere renter. — ( MSS. 8$c.) 

Paughtoor. — A town in the Bejapoor province, 101 miles S. S. W. from 
Hyderabad. Lat. 15° 57' N long. 78° 2' E. 

Gudwall. — A town in the Bejapoor province, 54 miles N. W. from Adorn. 
Lat. 16° 1 1' N. long. 77° 48' E. When Ram Bopaul, the zemindar of Gudwall 
(one of the jaghiredars tributary to the Nizam) died, he left two of his wives 
pregnant, and directed the succession to devolve on the first-born son. If nei- 
ther produced a male child, his grand nephew, Sittaram Bhopaul, was to be 
married to his first-born daughter, and to succeed to the jaghire. The latter 
event took place, and some years afterwards the mother of the youngest daugh- 
ter endeavoured, by bribing the Nizam’s minister, to get possession of the ter- 
ritory. 

Mudgul (Mudgala ). — This small district is also situated to the south of the 
Krishna, being comprehended between that river and the Toombudra. It was 
ravaged by the Mahommedans so early as A. D. 1312, during the reign of the 
Delhi emperor, Alla ud Deen ; but we have no recent account of it. The town 
of Mudgul is situated in lat. 16° 2' N. long. 76° 26' E. 55 miles N. from Bija- 
nagur. 

Seedapoor. — A town in the province of Bejapoor, 70 miles S. E. from the 
city of Bejapoor. Lat. 16° 28' N. long. 76° 44' E. 

Gujunderghur (Gajindraghar ). — A Maharatta district in the province of 
Bejapoor, situated between the Krishna and Toombudra rivers, and bounded 
towards the east by the Malpurba. The chief towns are Gujunderghur and 
Kannagherry. 

Gujunderghur.— The capital of the above territory, is situated in lat. 
16° 43' N. long. 76° 3' E. 59 miles N. E. from Darwar. In 1804, this town and 
fortress were held by Bishen RowGoorpooreh, with a small tract'of surrounding 
territory, independent of the Peshwa, although within his dominions; but 
through the interposition of the British government an amicable arrangement 
took place, and his authority was re-established. 

Kannagherry. — A town in the province of Bejapoor, 27 miles N. by W. 
from Bijanagur. Lat. 15° 36' N, long. 76® 26' E. 

Annagoondy (Anagundi). — A small district in the Bejapoor province south 
of the Krishna, and extending along the north bank of the Toombudra liter. 
The chief towns are Bijanagur (or Annagoondy) and the fortress of Kopaul. 
After the conquest of Bijanagur by the Mahommedan princes of the Deccan* 



OF BEJAPOOB 


BIJANAGUR.] 


235 


the nominal Rajas were allowed to retain Annagoondy and some other districts 
in jaghire for several generations. Prior to 1749, the Maharatta chiefs had 
imposed a tribute on them, which Hyder in 1775 increased. In 1786, Tippoo 
entered Annagoondy, expelled the Raja, burned his palace and all his records, 
and annexed the district to the government lands. In 1790, the Raja again 
seized the district, but was driven out by Tippoo’s general. Cummer ud Deen 
Khan. In 1799, he again made himself master of the country, and did not sub- 
mit until the British army approached. Pumeah, the Dewan of Mysore, took 
the management of the country from him, and gave him a monthly allowance of 
2000 rupees, which was reduced to 1500, when Annagoondy was made over to 
the Nizam, and it is now continued at that rate by the British government 
The present Raja is a man of mean capacity, but little removed from idiotism. — 
( Munro, $$c.) 

Bijanagur ( Vijeyanagara ). — A Hindoo city of great fame and antiquity, 
named in the Canarese, Annagoondy, and occasionally All patna, these names 
being sometimes applied to the whole city, and at others only to certain portions 
of it. Lat. 15° 14' N. long. 76° 37' E. 29 miles N. W. from Bellary. 

The remains of Bijanagur are situated on the south side of the Toombudra, 
directly opposite to the part usually mimed Annagoondy. On the north side 
of Comlapoor fort are a great number of rugged hills, covered with pagodas. 
The city has been enclosed with strong stone walls on the east side, and bounded 
by the river on the west ; the circumference of the whole appearing to be about 
eight miles. Betwixt the immense piles of rocks crowned with pagodas, seve- 
ral streets can be traced from 30 to 45 yards wide, and there is one remains yet 
perfect. There are a number of streams flowing through the ruins of the city, 
which is named by the natives on the spot, Allpatna. The river at one place at 
the foot of these rums is only 16 yards wide, below which there has been a stone 
bridge. Annagoondy, which was formerly only part of the city, is now the 
Canarese name for the whole. 

The building of this metropolis was begun A. D. 1336, and finished in 1343, 
by Aka Hurryhur and Bucca Hurryhur, two brothers ; the former of whom 
reigned until A.D. 1350, and the latter until 1378. It was first named Vidya- 
nagara, but was afterwards named Vijeyanagara, the city of victory. The Chola 
(Tanjore), the Chera, and the Pandian (Madura) dynasties were all conquered 
by Nursingh Raja and Krishna Raja, of Bijanagur, in the period between 1490 
and 1515. The kingdom was then called Bisnagar and Narsinga in old Euro- 
pean maps, and comprehended the whole Carnatic above and below the Ghauts, 
when visited by Caesar Frederick, who described the city as having a circuit of 
of 24 miles, and containing within its walls many hills and pagodas. 

n h 2 



236 THE PROVINCE [cofaui, 

A state of unceasing hostility subsisted between the Mahommedan sovereigns 
of the Deccan, and this Hindoo principality ; notwithstanding which circum- 
stance, we learn from Ferishta, that Raja Deo Ray, of Bijanagur, about 1440, 
received Mahommedans into his service, and erected a mosque for them in his 
capital, commanding that no person should molest them in the exercise of their 
religion. He had 2000 soldiers of that religion in his army, fighting against the 
Bhamenee Mahommedan princes of the Deccan. At that era they were reckoned 
more expert bowmen than the Hindoos. 

In 1504, the four Mahommedan Deccany kings, of Ahmednuggur, Bejapoor, 
Golconda, and Beeder, combined, and totally defeated Ram Raja, the sovereign 
of Bijanagur, on the plains of Tellicotta, and afterwards marched to the capital, 
which they plundered and sacked. The city was depopulated by the conse- 
quences of this victory, and finally deserted by the successor of Ram Raja, who 
endeavoured to re-establish at Pennaconda, the ruins of a once powerful dy- 
nasty. About 1663, the Sree Rung Rayeel, or royal house of Bijanagur, ap- 
pears to have become extinct, as we hear no more of it after that date. Some 
account of the nominal rajas who followed, will be found under the article An- 
nagoondy. The latter are said for many years to have kept an exact register of 
the revolutions in the Deccan and south of India, in the vain hope of being, by 
some future turn of the wheel, reinstated in their ancient rights. . Travelling 
distance from Madras, 386; from Seringapatam, 260; from Calcutta, 1120; 
from Delhi, 1106 ; and from Hyderabad, 264 miles . — ( Wilks, Rennell, Ferishta > 
Scott, fyc.) 

Cop a u l ( Capala ). — A fortified town about 2 1 miles west from the ancient city 
of Bijanagur. Lat. 15° 19' N; long. 76° 10' E. This is one of the strongest 
native fortresses in the south of India. The lower fort is a semicircle, at the 
bottom of a steep rocky mountain, immediately commanded by a middle and 
upper fort. The last overlooks the whole, and contains granaries and reservoirs 
excavated in the solid rock. The whole is formed of an immense rock, almost 
perpendicular to a great height, except one part to the south-east, where a wall 
is erected 66 feet high and 36 thick, composed mostly of large stones. The 
breadth between the rocks is about 30 feet. In 1790, when this place was posn 
sessed by Tippoo, it was besieged by the Nizam's army, assisted by a small 
detachment. It held out six months, and at length capitulated ; the governor 
being more intimidated to this measure by the fall of Bangalore, than compelled 
by any urgent necessity. The garrison, in number about 3000, were allowed to 
march south, and the adjacent country was overrun and plundered by the Ni- 
zam s cavalry. In 1819, in consequence of the rebellious conduct of its gover- 
nor, Veerappa, Copaul Droog was besieged by a detachment wader General 



bancapoor.] OF BEJAPOQR* 237 

Pritzler, dud taken by storm on the 13th of May, with the loss of 6 killed and 
51 wounded.— ( MSS. 8$c. §c.) 

Bancapoor. — This district occupies the southern extremity of the Bejapoor 
province, and was formerly distinguished by the name of Shahnoor, or Savanore. 
It extends along the northern banks df the Wurda and Toombuddra rivers, and 
when under proper cultivation is extremely productive. The principal towns 
are Shahnoor and Bancapoor. 

Shahnoor ( Sivanur J . — This place stands in lat. 14° 59' N. long. 75° 26' E. 
40 miles $. E. from Darwar. The city of Shahnoor is neither extensive nor 
well built, having few buildings of any elegance except the palaces, and these 
are in ruins. It is enclosed by a wall and ditch, but is not a place of strength. 
On the outside of the city wall to the northward, are several long streets of 
houses, for the most part uninhabited ; and to the southward is a lake of water. 
From the Toombudra to Shahnoor, the land is fertile, but indifferently culti- 
vated. Shahnoor was conquered from the Hindoos by the Bhamanee sovereigns 
of the Deccan so early as A. D. 1397, but at a later period became the capital 
of a small Patan state, giving the title of Nabob to its hereditary possessor. 
Abdul Hakim Khan, the seventh lineal descendant, who reigned in 1792, had 
been tributary to Tippoo until 1784, when he abjured his allegiance, and ac- 
cepted the protection of the Maharattas. After this defection, Tippoo’s army, 
during a predatory incursion, destroyed the palaces and public buildings, blew 
up and razed the strong fortress of- Bancapoor, and devastated the whole coun- 
try, of which he retained possession until 1792, when it was wrested from him 
restored to the Nabob, under the superintendence of the Maharattas. 

This territory was transferred to the Peshwa by the British government in 
exchange for an equivalent in Bundelcund. About the time when Goklah, one 
of the Southern Jaghiredars obtained possession^ Shahnoor, there was a very 
general disturbance and usurpation (called by the natives, Kautkaee) thrpughout 
the country, and every man helped himself to whatever place he had troops 
enough to capture. The family of the Shahnoor Nabob had an allowance out 
of the revenues from the Peshwa, but it was so extremely ill paid, that in 1804 
they were reduced to a state of the utmost wretchedness, were nearly naked 
or covered with rags, and compelled to subsist on the plants they picked up in 
the fields. A remonstrance was in consequence presented by Mr. Strachey, the 
British agent, for arranging the possessions of the Southern Jaghiredars, to the 
court of Poona, which had the effect of ensuring greater punctuality in the future 
discharge of their miserable pittance.-— (Moor, MSS. Ferishta , %c.) 

Bancapoor ( or Jknkypoor). — This is a large town, and was formerly a place 



238 THE PROVINCE [hoobit. 

of importance. The fort was dismantled by Tippoo during one of his cam-* 
paigns against the Maharattas, at which time Bancapoor was one of the chief 
fortifications in the Shahnoor district, and was, to distinguish it from other places 
of the same name, called Shahnoor Bancapoor. The city of Shahnoor is in 
sight five or six miles to the north-east. — (Moor, 8$c.) 

Khooshgool.- — A fortress in the province of Bejapoor, which was ceded to 
the British in 1817, along with Darwar, but was held by the adherents of Trira- 
buckjee. 

Gunduck (Gandaki ).— A district situated in the portion of the Bejapoor pro* 
vince lying to the south of the Krishna river, and principally between the forks 
of the Malpurba river. The soil is fertile and productive, and the country tole- 
rably populous, in spite of the succession of miserable governments it has expe- 
rienced. The principal towns are Darwar, Hoobly^ Noolgoond, and Kittoor. 

Darwar. — A fortified town, named by the Mahommedans Nusserabad, 
situated in lat. 15°28'N. long. 75° 8' E. In 1784, when Tippoo was in the 
height of his glory, he compelled the Maharattas to cede Dajcwar, with other 
forts and districts, he agreeing to pay a tribute for them. In 1790, it surrendered 
to the Maharatta army under Purseram Bhow, assisted by three battalions of 
Bombay sepoys, who bore the whole brunt of a 29 weeks’ siege. ; It is very strong, 
although not regularly fortified ; the ditches are particularly good. The town 
stands to the southward of the fort, extending eastward, and enclosed by a weak 
wall and ditch. It was almost destroyed during the siege, and the surrounding 
country totally devastated by the Maharatta plunderers, prior to which, it was 
rich and well cultivated. With the adjoining district it is now attached to the 
Madras presidency. 

Hoobly ( Havili ). — This place is situated about 13 miles south-east from Dar- 
war, in lat. 15° 20' N. long. 75° 15' E. and has for many years been a town of 
great trade, and still continues a populous and respectable mart. The surround- 
ing country is well wooded and watered, and an extensive inland trade is carried 
on. There is also a considerable traffic with the coast, principally through the 
medium of Goa, whence in return for sandal wood and elephants’ teeth, raw 
silks, cotton, woollens, and rice, are received. The two first are manufactured 
here, and sold to a large amount, chiefly for the dresses of the. country people. 
The bankers are numerous and rich, and extend their commercial intercourse by 
means of agents as far north as Surat, eastward to Hyderabad, and southward 
to Seringapatam. Bills of exchange can be negotiated on places still more dis- 
tant, and the currency of the neighbouring couptry is in a great measure regu- 
lated by the Hoobly bankers. There are no public or private buildings of any 



KiTTOoa.] OF BEJAPOOR. 239 

note ; and although there are two forts, neither are capable of opposing any re - 
sistance to an army. 

Near to Hoobly, and to many other towns in this part of India, the ruins of 
mosques and Mahommedan burying grounds prove that there were formerly a 
great many inhabitants of that religion; but they are now so reduced in number, 
that in twenty towns or villages, there is scarcely one to be found; and where 
there are a few, they subsist on alms in a miserable state of pride, poverty, and 
contempt. In 1673, this place was sacked by the Maharatta chief Sevajee, at 
which time the English factory here sustained a loss of 8000 pagodas ; in 1685, 
it was taken again by Sultan Mauzum, Aurengzebe’s son. 

In 1804, Old Hoobly was in possession of the Furkiah Maharatta family, at 
which time, when General Wellesley was marching south, after his campaign 
against Sindia, it was besieged by the Sirsoubah, or deputy of the Peshwa. The 
garrison in the fort, on hearing of General Wellesley’s arrival in their neighbour- 
hood, requested his interference and sent him a letter addressed to the deputy by 
the Peshwa, directing him to give Old Hoobly and its dependencies to Bapoo 
Furkiah, his highness's brother-in-law, and the very person for whom the garrison 
already held it. On the other hand, the deputy produced the Peshwa’s order, 
commanding him to besiege and take the place from Furkiah by force, and be- 
fore this mud village he had been employed six weeks. The general recommended 
a suspension of hostilities to both parties, until the Peshwa’s real intentions with 
respect to the destination of the place were ascertained, and his advice was 
followed. — ( MSS. Moor, Ortnc, §c.) 

Neergoond. — A hill fort of considerable strength, situated between two 
branches of the Malpurba river, 31 miles N. E. from Darwar. Lat. 15 0 41'N. 
long. 75°36'E. 

Konapoor. — A town in the Bejapoor province, 34 miles W. N. W. from Dar- 
war. Lat. lfi® 37' N. long. 74° 38' E. 

Kittoor. — This town is situated about 19 miles W. N. W. from Darwar, in 
lat. 15 # 35'N. long. 74® 52' E. It was originally tributary to the Poona state, 
and the Dessaye had a few villages in the jaghire ; but after the death of the 
Pgthwa Madhurow, the DesBaye took advantage of the convulsions that ensued, 
and usurped the whole. In 1804, the renter of the district complained to Ge- 
neral Wellesley, that, although a subject of the Peshwa’s, his country was plun- 
dered and devastated, not only by two neighbouring feudatories of hi* hi ghness ’s 
(Goldah and Appah Dessaye) but also by the Peshwa’s own deputy, the Sirsou- 
bah. By the interposition of the British government peace was restored, and 
the Dessaye compelled to fulfil his engagements with the Peshwa, but at the 



240 THE PROVINCE [gokauk. 

same time was protected in the exercise of his own just rights. The adjacent 
territory is fertile, and during a period of peace is capable of yielding from five 
to six lacks of rupees per annum. — ( MSS., fyc .) 

Noorgool. — A small district in the province of Bejapoor, situated in the 
Doab of (the space included by) the two rivers Gutpurba and Maipurba. The 
principal towns are Badaumy and Ramdroog. 

Badaumy. — This is one of the strongest hill forts in India, and made a cele- 
brated defence against the whole Maharatta army under Nana Fumavese,. al- 
though attacked by that people with a degree of spirit they seldom exhibit in 
the prosecution of sieges. It stands in lat. 15°55'N, long. 75*49' E. 55 miles 
N. E. from Darwar, and was taken by storm by the detachment under Genera^ 
Thomas Munro in February 1818. \ 

Azimnagur. — A large district in the province of Bejapoor, situated to the\ 
south of the Krishna river, about the 16th* degree of north latitude.- It is 
watered by the Gutpurba and Maipurba rivers, besides several mountain streams, 
and may be considered as one of the most fertile districts in this quarter of 
India. The chief towns are Gokauk, Manoly, and Gunderghur. 

Wullubghur. — A hill fort in the province of Bejapoor, 37 miles S. by W. 
from Merritch. Lat. 16° 20' N. long. 74° 38' E. This place was long held under 
the Peshwa, by Purseram Bhow, and when he was defeated and slain, was 
seized on by the Colapoor Raja, in whose possession it remained until 1804, when 
by the interposition of the British government it was restored to the Peshwa, 
and was transferred to one of his feudatories. — (MSS., fyc.) 

Hookery. — A town in the province of Bejapoor, 55 miles S. S. W. from 
Merritch. Lat. 16° 13' N. long. 74°47'E. This is now a poor town, but still 
exhibits vestiges of a once flourishing condition, when it was subject to a Ma- 
hommedan sovereign. The last of the Mogul sovereigns was Abd ul Khareed, 
who was dethroned by the then Raja of Parnella, and died in the year 1643. 
An unsuccessful attempt was made to reinstate a surviving son; since which the 
Mahommedans have continued to (decline, and live now in great poverty. — 
(Moor, %c.) 

Gokauk.— This place stands on the south side of the Gutpurba river, 49 
miles N. from Darwar. Lat. 16° ll'N. long. 74° 58' E. It is a town of consi- 
derable extent and importance, situated on the eastern acclevity of a hill, and 
watered on its northern side by the Gutpurba river, which immediately opposite 
is deep water; but there is a ford one mile east of the town. Gokauk is enclosed 
by a wall and ditch on its eastern and southern sides ; but to the westward it is 
commanded by a hill. Here is an extensive manufactory of silk and cotton 



OF BEJAPOOR. 


CORSEE.] 


241 


fabrics; both in the form Of dresses and of piece goods. The silk is probably 
procured from Bengal by the way of Goa. 

Gokauk was the head place of a district in 1685, when taken by Sultan 
Mauzzum ; but it does not now contain any buildings or ruins of consequence. 
About two miles from this place is a superb cataract formed by the river Gutpur- 
ba, precipitated from the hills to the low country. During the rains this river is 
about 168 yards broad, which volume of water falls perpendicularly 174 feet. 
In the dry season the breadth is comparatively insignificant. — ( Moor t 8$c.) 

Manoly. — Situated on the north-west bank of the Malpurba river, 30 miles 
N. by E. from Darwar. Lat. 15° 53' N. long. 75° 17' E. This place originally 
belonged to Neel Khant Row Sindia and his ancestors, which family was dis- 
possessed about 40 years ago by the Colapoor Raja, who was soon afterwards 
expelled by the Peshwa. Purseram Bhow then held the country until the de- 
cline of his power, when it again fell into the hands of the Colapoor Raja. Some 
time afterwards, Doondeah Wangh's (the freebooter’s) partizans obtained posses- 
sion of it, but it was taken from them by General Wellesley, who gave it to 
Appah Saheb, Purseram Bhow’s eldest son. With him it only remained a year, 
when Appah Dessaye came with some troops of Dowlet Row Sindia’s, and 
turned him out, since which time it has been held by Appah Dessaye, tributary 
to the Peshwa. — ( MSS. 8$c.) 

Muegore. — A town in the province of Bejapoor, 29 miles north from Darwar. 
Lat. 15° 52' N. long. 75° 6' E. 

Ryebaugh ( Rai’bagh , the Rays garden). — A fertile and productive district 
occupying the Doab (the space included) between the Krishna and Gutpurlia 
rivers, by both of which it is watered. The chief towns are Ryebaugh, Wulr 
lubghur, and Chickoory. 

Ryebaugh. — The capital of the preceding district, is enclosed by a bad wall, 
having entrantes on the north and west sides. It is not populous nor extensive, 
nor does its appearance indicate that it ever was a place of consequence. Near 
to the northern gate are some Mahommedan tombs. Lat. 16° 30' N. long. 75° 
E. 26 miles S. S. E. from Merritch. — ( Mpar , 8$c.) 

Moodhill. — A town in the province of Bejapoor, 46 miles S. S. W. from the 
city of Bejapoor. Lat. 16° 15' N. long. 75° 21' E. 

Chickoory ( Chicurt ). — This is a large and respectable town with an exten- 
f, rive bazar, llat. 16° 28' N. long. 74° 44' E. 26 miles south from Merritch. 
jj Corses. — A small town in the province of Bejapoor, district of Ryebaugh. 

| lat 16* 40’S. long. 74° 50' E. This was formerly a Mahommedan town of 
some note, but has been so modi di st re ss ed by the Maharatta Brahmirs. tha t 
[jMtffftd.IMkhmMtit Seme, hwwro, atm reasun, end » aabt i rted 
| vos.it, is 



THE PROVINCE 


242 

by a revenue arising from charity lands, granted by the Bejapoor sovereignty 
during its decline. Near the river Krishna is a cementery where the remains of 
several Mahommedans of great eminence are buried, and on an island in the 
rivdr, one mile east of the town, are deposited the relics of Sheikh Mahommed 
Seraje ud Deen, a celebrated saint. The river Krishna here runs in an easterly 
direction, and is about 500 yards from bank to bank. The ford is* not a good 
one, being rocky, and of an irregular depth. This is one of the towns within 
the Maharatta territory which enjoys the privilege of killing beef for sale. — 
( Moor, §c.) 



INDIA SOUTH OP THE KRISHNA RIVER. 


This portion of Hindostan has the figure of a triangle, of which the course of 
the river Krishna forms the base, and the coasts of Malabar and Coromandel the 
tides. Its extent from the Krishna to Cape Comorin, which forms the apex of 
the triangle, is about COO English miles, and its breadth in the widest part is 
about 550, from whence it tapers to a point at Cape Comorin. The great geo* 
graphical feature of this region is a central table land, elevated from 3000 to 
5000 feet above the level of the sea, separated by wild, abrupt, and mountainous 
declivities from the low flat countries to the east and west, which form a belt of 
small but unequal breadth between the hills and the sea. The central eminence 
is usually termed Balaghaut (above the ghauts), and the lower belt the Payeen- 
ghaut (below the ghauts). 

The most remarkable rainy season in India is that called the south-west mon- 
soon, which extends from Africa to the Malay peninsula, deluging all the inter- 
mediate regions, within certain degrees of latitude, for four months in the year. 
In the south of India this monsoon commences about the end of May or the 
beginning of June, but it gets later as we proceed northward. Its approach is 
announced in the south by vast masses of clouds that rise from the Indian Ocean, 
and advance towards the north-east, gathering and thickening as they approach 
the land. After some threatening days, the sky assumes a troubled appearance 
in the evening, the monsoon generally setting in during the night, attended with 
a tremendous thunder-storm and violent blasts of wind, and succeeded by a 
flood of rain. For some hours lightening is seen without intermission, some- 
times for an instant leaving the horizon in darkness, and afterwards suddenly 
re-appearing in vivid and successive flashes, while the thunder rolls incessantly. 
When at length this uproar ceases, the rain is heard pouring, and the torrents 
rashing down the rising streams. 

This sense continues for some days, after which the sky clears and discovers 
the face of nature changed as if by enchantment. In place of parched fields, 
brooks dried up, vegetation withered, a fiery and scorching wind, a torrid sky 
obscured with dust, through which the sun shines dull and discoloured; the 

1 1 2 



INDIA SOUTH OP 


344 


whole earth appears coveted with a sudden and luxuriant verdure, the riven are 
full and tranquil, the air pure and delicious, and the sky variegated with diffe- 
rent clouds, while the animal creation by the alacrity of their motions shew 
themselves sensible of the change. From this period, the rain falls at intervals 
for about a month, after which its violence increases, and in July the rains at- 
tain their maximum. During August, although still heavy, they rather diminish, 
in September they abate considerably, and towards the conclusion of the month 
depart as they came, amidst thunder and tempests. Such is the monsoon in 
the greater part of India, diversified according to the latitude and distance from 
the sea 


The south-west montoon commences on the Malabar coast in May, and isA 
there very furious ; it is later and more moderate in Mysore ; while the coast of \ 
Coromandel, covered by the Western Ghauts, is wholly exempt from it. Further 
north, the monsoon begins early in June, and loses its violence, except in the 
vicinity of high mountains, where the fall of rain is considerable. About Delhi 
it does not begin until the end of June, and the quantity of moisture is greatly 
inferior to what is discharged at Calcutta and Bombay. In the north of the 
Punjab, near the hills, it exceeds that of Delhi; but towards the junction of the 
five rivers with the Indus, which is remote both from the sea and the hills, very 
little rain falls. The countries under the Cashmere hills, and those of Hindoo 
Cosh, have all their share of the rains, but they diminish to the westward. It 
is generally supposed that the monsoon does not extend beyond the tropic, bnt 
this is not the fact, as it prevails at Tatta, which is in lat. 24° 44' N. yet does 
not at Corachie (lat. 24° 51' N. long. 67° 16' E.), which is beyond the limit to 
the west. 


In this geographical division of India, the mass of the population consists of 
Hindoos, the Mahommedans being comparatively very few; the primitive Hindoo 
manners and customs are consequently preserved in a state of great purity, par- 
ticularly in Tinnevelly and the adjacent districts. In this quarter the lapse of 
20 centuries has apparently made no change in the habits and peculiarities of the 
Hindoo, or in his civil condition or religion. His diet is frugal and simple, his 
hut is composed of mud, the leaves of the coco nut tree, and a few bamboos ; 
and a small strip of cloth is his garment. The country is subdivided into vil- 
lages, comprehending some thousand acres of arable and waste land, the boun- 
daries of which, amidst political revolutions and convulsions, have scarcely ever 
been altered. The constitution of the villages resembles a little republic, or 
rather corporation, having its hereditary officers and artificers. Villages inha- 
bited solely by Brah mins are of frequent occurrence, and are generally de- 



THE KRISHNA RIVER- 


345 

scribed under the name of agra grama, or superior villages. Throughout the 
whole region, however, many foreign families are to be found, whose ancestors 
have migrated hither from their native land in times of famine or distress, and 
in their adopted country have preserved from generation to generation their own 
language and peculiarities. Many instances could be pointed out of such fo- 
reign families settled here four or five hundred years, without approximating in 
the least to the manners, fashions, or even the language of the natives where 
they have been so long domesticated. These still preserve the remembrance of 
their origin, and adhere to the ceremonies and usages of the land of their ances- 
tors, without in the least adopting those of the country where accident has 
compelled them to reside. 

Certain tribes, from their inferiority of rank, and the utter contempt in which 
they are held, appear to be a separate race, cut off from the great Hindoo 
family. Of this description are the Parias, although they are so numerous that 
they have been computed at one-fifth of the whole population of India south of 
the Krishna. These Parias are subdivided into many classes and gradations, 
each claiming superiority over the other, but the whole subjected to the other 
castes, and not allowed in general to cultivate land on their own account, being 
in a manner slaves to the other tribes. This extreme detestation of the Parias 
varies in intensity in different regions, and prevails with most virulence in the 
southern countries. In some parts of Mysore, the higher castes tolerate the 
approach of the PariaB, and permit them to enter that part of the house which 
shelters the cows, and instances have even occurred where they have permitted 
them to, advance the head and one foot within the body of the dwelling house. The 
distinction towards the north becomes less marked. Europeans are under the 
necessity of employing Parias for servants, because a great part of their work 
could not be done by any of the purer castes. No person of a respectable 
Sudra tribe would brifsh the shoes, or draw off the boots of the master, far less 
cook for a person who devoured the sacred cow and ox. They are conse- 
quently compelled to have recourse to the assistance of* the Parias, and thereby 
participate in the loathing of the higher classes of Hindoos. 

Although the Brahminical religion was probably the most general in the south 
of India, other systems had, at certain- periods, an extensive sway. 1st. The 
Jains, who reject the authority of the Vedas and Purans; of which profession 
the sovereigns of Karaata appear to have been, until the I2th century of the 
Christian era. 2d. The Bhauddha, who had temples. 3d. The Mahommedan 
religion, which was introduced through the medium of the commercial inter- 
course between Arabia and Malabar. 4th. A numerous colony of Jews, settled 
at Cochin and in other parts of Malabar. 6th. A knowledge of the true re- 



INDIA SOOTH OF 


246 

ligion had made some progress at an early period! but the Nestorian doc rules 
were those professed. The languages of this region derive at least one half of 
the words they contain immediately from the Sanscrit ; but they are supposed to 
derive a great part, if not the whole, of the remainder from another source f by 
some supposed to be the dialect frequently termed the high Tamul. 

The earliest Mahommedan army that crossed the Krishna was led, in 1310, 
by Kafoor against Dlioor Summooder, the capital city of Belal Deo, the sove- 
reign of Karnata ; but they never made any permanent conquests until about 
the commencement of the 18th century. For many centuries prior to the British 
ascendancy, the governments in this quarter were little more than an assemblage 1 
of Poligarships, under a superior chief, who, although he had a general controul\ 
over the whole, exercised very little authority in the interior management of \ 
their respective districts. In fact, Hyder was the only Indian sovereign in this \ 
tract who ever subdued all his petty feudatories, or was really, according to 
European ideas, master of his country. Whatever may have been the nature of the 
ancient governments, this fertile region has evidently undergone a gradual decay 
since the first intrusion of the Mahommedans, and its decline appears to have 
been accelerated since the commencement of the British influence, so long as it 
was exerted through the medium of the native chiefs, whose oppressive mode of 
collecting the revenue contributed more to ruin the country than all the wars 
and tumults that had occurred. Many provinces have continued in high culture, 
although exposed to constant wars, while others have become deserts in the 
midst of peace. The open violence of amies has probably done less injury 
than the fines, fees, exactions, and contributions, which have been imposed by 
the tyranny, or permitted by the weakness of the state. The buildings, tanks, 
channels, and even ridges that separated former fields, the ruined villages, general 
tradition, books, accounts, sunnuds, and inscriptions, all combine to give a high 
idea of the former cultivation and opulence of this division of Hindostan. It 
must be admitted, however, that many of these appearances may have originated 
from the circumstance of each portion of the country having become in its turn 
the seat of a petty and transitory state, which flourished for a time, afterwards 
decayed, became gradually deserted by its inhabitants migrating to some more 
prosperous spot, and at last relapsed to a state of jungle, containing the remains 
of buildings, tanks; fields, and houses, the vestiges of its former population. 
The ancient great Hindoo princes in this quarter did not in fact want a largo 
revenue ; they had no expensive establishments to keep up, and the simplicity 
of their manners required but little. Religious ceremonies were probably the 
chief expense of the state, the soldiers being supported by grants of land. 

In the Hindoo geographical systems, India south of the Krishna is distil 



karnata.] THE KRISHNA RIVER. 247 

guished into five divisions, which will be noticed hereafter; in modem times the 
following may be considered as the principal territorial divisions ; viz. — 

1. The southern portion of the Bejapoor province. 

2. The Bal&ghaut ceded territories, comprehending the districts of Bellary 
and Cuddapah. 

3. The Carnatic below the ghauts, containing the districts of Nellore and 
Ongole, North Arcot, South Arcot, Chingleput, Tanjore, Trichinopoly,Dindigal 
and Madura, and Tinnevelly. 

4. The province of Mysore. 

5. The Canara and Malabar districts. 

6. The principalities of Cochin and Travancore. 

The only town of great magnitude is the modem city of Madras* — (Thackeray, 
Elphimtone, Dubois, Wilks, Lushington , Edinburgh Review, Rennell , 5th Report, 
$c. #c.) 

Karnata. — An ancient Hindoo geographical division, which comprehended 
all the high table land in the south of India, situated above the ghauts. In 
modem times, by a strange fatality, it has lost its proper designation, which has 
been transferred to the* adjacent provinces on the sea coast, under the names 
of Carnatic and Canara. In remote periods of Hindoo history, Karnata existed 
as a powerful empire, which comprehended great part of the south of India, and 
in the eighth century of the Christian era is ascertained to have been governed 
by the Bellala Rayas, at which time Balagami in Mysore is said to have been the 
capital, and the Jain the prevalent religion. 

The common Canara or Karnat&ca character and language arc used by the 
natives of all those countries, from Coimbatoor north to Balky, near Boeder, 
and within the parallels of the Eastern Ghauts to the Western. This region 
comprehends the modem provinces of Mysore, Sera, Upper Bednore, Soonda, 
Goa, Adoni, Rachoor, Kurfioul, the Doab of the Krishna, and Toombudra, and 
a considerable part of the modem provinces of Bejapoor and Beeder, as far as 
the source of the Krishna. The junction of the three languages, the Telinga, the 
Maharatta, and the Karnataca, takes place somewhere about the city of Beeder 
in the Deccan. The Haiga Brahmins in Canara consider the Karnataca as their 
proper tongue, and all accounts or inscriptions on stone, whether in the vulgar 
language or in Sanscrit, are written in the Karnataca character, which is nearly 
the same with the Andray, or old writing of Telingana. In a specimen of the 
Lord's prayer, translated into that language, sixteen of the words can be traced 
as being the same with those used in the Bengalese, although much disguised by 
difference of termination. —( Mackenzie, F. Buchan am. With*, Ramell, C$k- 
JfuaftcL At.) 



INDIA SOUTH OP 


348 


[eastern ghauts. 


Dr a vi da ( or Dravira ). — This is the ancient name of the country which ter- 
minates the south of India. Its northern limits lie between the 12th and 13th 
degrees of north latitude, and it is bounded on the east by the sea, and on the 
west by the Eastern Ghauts. The name, however, is occasionally extended to all 
the country occupied by inhabitants speaking the Tamul language, and there is a 
whole caste of Brahmins designated by the name of Dravida Brahmins. The 
subordinate divisions of Dravida were named from the three rival dynasties of 
Cholan, Cheran, and Pandian. The first governing in Tanjore and Combooconum, 
possessed the northern tract ; Pandian had Madura and the south ; and Cherajn 
united Kanjiam and Salem to the dominions of the Kerala on the coast of Ma- 
labar . — ( Wilks , Colebrooke, F. Buchanan , §c.) \ 

Tamul. — This is the proper national appellation of the Sudras of the eastern 
side of the south of India ; and the Pracrit Bhasham, or vulgar dialect of the' 
country, is there called the language of the Tamuls. It is principally spoken in 
the tract from the south of Telingana to Cape Comorin, and from the coast of 
Coromandel to the great range of hills, including the greater part of the Barra- 
mahal, Salem, and the country now called Coimbatoor, along which line it is 
bounded to the west by the province of Malabar. Both language and people 
are by those of Camata called Arabi and Tigular ; and the Tamul Brahmins de- 
signated Dravida Brahmins. By Europeans this language is miscalled Malabars. 
(Wilks, F. Buchanan , #c. ) 


THE EASTERN GHAUTS. 

The chain of hills commonly described under this appellation commences in 
the south, about latitude 1 1° 20' N. to the north of Cavery, and extends, with 
little interruption or comparative deviation from a straight line, to the banks of 
the Krishna, in latitude 16° N. separating the two Camatics, the one named 
Carnatic Balaghaut, or above the ghauts (the true Carnatic); the other the 
Carnatic Payeenghaut, or below the ghauts, extending along the coast of Coro- 
mandel. The term ghaut properly signifies a pass through a range of high hills, 
but the name has been transferred to the mountainous chains which support the 
central table land in the south of India. 

We are not yet informed of the exact height of this ridge, but its general 
elevation is known to be considerably less than that of the Western Ghauts, 
About the latitude of Madras, which is the highest part, it is estimated at 3000 
feet ; and the table land of Bangalore, towards Ooscottah, which is within the 
chain, is more than 3000 feet above the level of the sea. As the rivers which 
have their sources in the upper table land universally decline tc the east, it 
proves the superior elevation of the Western Ghauts, and they are by fyr the 



THE KRISHNA RIVER. 


WESTERN GHAUTS.] 

most abrupt in their ascent. The grand component parts of these mountains is a 
granite, consisting of white feltspar and quartz, with dark green mica in a small 
proportion to the other two ingredients. The particles are angular and of a 
moderate size. The rocks appear stratified, but the strata are very much broken 
and confused. 

The country above the ghauts about Naikan Eray rises into swells like the 
land in many parts of England, and is overlooked by the high barren peaks of 
the Ghauts, which close the view to the eastward. The soil between Naikan 
Eray and Vincatigherry is very poor, and covered with copse, having a few large 
trees intermixed. The whole of the copse land serves for pasture of an inferior 
sort, and the bushes supply the natives with fuel for domestic purposes and for 
the smelting of iron. About two miles from Naikan Eray a torrent in thfe rainy 
season brings down from the hills a quantity of iron ore in the form of black sand, 
which in the dry season is smelted. 

The tops of the hills near the Vellore road by Sautghur are covered with large 
stones, among which grow many small trees and shrubs, with occasionally a 
tamarind tree of great age and size. The scenery here exhibits a great contrast to 
that about Madras, the whole country being undulated, with a few lofty desolated 
peaks ; the whole appearing very barren, and without any extensive forests. This 
pass has been widened and levelled since Mysore was conquered by the British. 
Artillery can now ascend it with little difficulty, which was not the case when 
Lord Cornwallis made his first and unsuccessful attempt on Seringapatam. The 
tranquillity of the Mysore and Carnatic, by the final abolition of the Mahom- 
medan dynasty of Hyder, has increased the importance of an easy communica- 
tion between the two countries . — ( F 1 Buchanan, Lord Valentin , llcnnefl , &c. ) 

Western Ghauts. — This chain is better defined than the other, and extends 
from Cap^ Comorin to the Tuptee or Surat river, where, however, it does not 
terminate in a point or promontory ; but departing from its meridional course, 
it bends eastward in a wavy line parallel to that river, and is afterwards lost 
among the hills in the neighbourhood of Boorhanpoor. In its line along the 
Tuptee, this ridge forms several ghauts or passes, from which there is a descent 
into the low land of Khandesh. In their whole extent the Western Ghauts in- 
clude thirteen degrees of latitude, with the exception of a break in the ridge, 
about 16 miles wide, in the latitude of Paniany, through which the river 
Paniany takes its course from the Coimbatoor province. Their distance from 
the sea*coast is seldom more than 70 miles, commonly about 40, and they are 
frequently visible from the sea, to which between Barcelore and Mirjaow they 
approach within six miles. 

The Western Ghaut mountains are in general from 2 to 3000 feet higher than 

vol. ii. a 



250 THE KRISHNA RIVER. [vestebn ghauts. 

those of the Eastern Ghauts, and several are from 5 to 6000 feet above the level 
of the sea. The peak of Mount Subramani, on the frontiers of Coorg, has been 
estimated at 5611 feet. This altitude is sufficiently great to prevent the body 
of the clouds passing over them, and accordingly the alternate N. E. and S. W, 
winds (called the monsoons) occasion a rainy season on the windward side of the 
mountains only. This cause ceases to operate in the parallel of Surat, where the 
S.W. wind, no longer opposed by a wall of mountains, carries its supply of 
moisture without interruption over the whole surface of the country. The 
territory above the Ghauts is called a table land, but it is not a regularly flat 
level country, being on the contrary in many parts very mountainous. 

The Western Ghauts, about the 15th degree of north latitude, although steep 
and stony, are by no means rugged or broken with rocks. The stones in the 
neighbourhood of Cutaki are buried in a rich mould, and in many places are not 
seen without digging. Instead therefore of the naked, sun-burnt, rocky peaks, 
so common in the Eastern Ghauts, there are here line mountains covered with 
stately forests. There are nowhere finer trees, nor any bamboos that can be 
compared with those that grow in this portion of the Western Ghauts. The 
bamboos, composing a great part of the forest, grow in detached clumps with 
open spots between, and equal in height to the most lofty palms. Near Cutaki, 
about half way up the Ghauts, the teak becomes common, but it is of an in- 
ferior size. 

The difficulty formerly experienced in ascending these mountains from the 
Malabar and Canara provinces, may be conceived from that which the Bombay 
army had to surmount in December, 1791, when advancing into Mysore by the 
Poodicherim pass. On that occasion it required two days to drag up 20 light 
field pieces two miles, and three weeks to bring up 14 guns with their tumbrils, 
none heavier than 18-pounders, to the top of the Ghauts.— (Remit, F. Buchanan, 
Moor, Dirom, Colonel Lambton, 8$c.) 



THE PROVINCE OF CANARA. 


A province on the west coast of India, extending from the 12th to the 15th 
degrees of north latitude. To the north it has Goa and the district of Gunduck 
in Bejapoor ; to the south the Malabar province ; on the east Mysore and the 
Balaghaut ceded territories ; and on the west the sea. It extends 180 miles 
along the sea coast, and in 1807 (according to Mr. Thackeray) contained 
4622 square miles below the ghauts; and 2758 (including Bilghy, Soonda, and 
Soopah) above the ghauts ; making a total of 7380 square miles of wild, rocky, 
and uneven country. The tract distinguished in our maps as the province of 
Canara, by a fatality unexampled in history, neither is, nor ever, was, known 
by that name to the people of the country, or of any part of India. Voyagers 
and Mahommedan strangers, finding that it was a dependancy on the kingdom 
of Canara, and probably that the officers of government spoke that 'language, 
gave the name of Canara to the division called by the natives Tulava, which 
name, however, applies more particularly to the country north of the river Chan- 
draghiri. Canara is a corruption of Kamata, the table land above the Ghauts. 
The British province thus named is composed of the maritime countries of 
Tulava, Haiga, and the adjacent parts of Malabar, and the Hindoo Kankana 
(the Concan). It was transferred to the British government in 1799, and now 
forms one of the collectorships under the Madras presidency ; but in geogra- 
phical descriptions is usually distinguished as North and South Canara, under 
which heads further topographical details will be found. 

Tn this province the Western Ghauts in some places approach near to the sea; 
in others, branches of rocky hills stretch from the Ghauts towards the sea, occu- 
pying great part of the surface. The village lands, however, are well cultivated 
with rice; especially those through which a river runs, or an arm of the sea ; but 
where there is no inland navigation improvement is backward. The rugged sur- 
face of the country renders it necessary to transport the produce on the heads 
of the peasantry, bullocks being seldom used. The climate and soil of Canara 
are much like those of Malabar. The rains set in about the middle of May, fall 
heaviest with squalls of wind in July, and continue to the end of September, 
during which season all trade is interrupted. Ships quit the coast and in- 
surances are void until the end of September ; on shore during the interval, work 

k k 2 



THE PROVINCE 


252 

is executed within doors, and bargains and accounts are settled. As in Malabar, 
the natives here mostly live every man under his own tree ; but in the interior 
there are some villages, peopled chiefly by Brahmins and shop keepers. The 
roads in* Canara are passable, though inferior to the military highways in Ma- 
labar, but they are less necessary as the trade is greatly conveyed by water, the 
population and cultivation following the courses of the rivers. As the natives 
do not. require roads, it would be oppressive to compel the inhabitants to make 
them as government alone would benefit by their construction, in facilitating the 
progress of troops, stores, and travellers. 

The soil of Canara is red and gravelly on the high ground, sandy near the sea, 
and in the vallies well adapted for the cultivation of rice ; but it is the climate 
rather than the soil that renders the province so productive. The same mode of 
reckoning by seed is used as in Malabar; but the proceeds of one measure 
sown is reckoned at not less than 1 5, and is sometimes in reality 30 fold. In 
the Mangalore district it is reckoned 30 fold ; in Baicul, Buntwal, Cundapoor, 
and Onorc, from 20 to 2G fold ; in Ancola, Soonda, and Bilghy from 15 to 21, 
which is reckoned more than double the average realized from the seed in Mala- 
bar. The crops are generally watered by the rains, but the streams are some- 
times dammed up to preserve water for the late crops. 

The land is divided into two classes : the first is capable of producing two or 
even three crops of rice : the second a crop of rice and one of some other grain; 
the third a crop of rice only. Manure is scarce, and the incessant wet and want 
of good pasture so deteriorate the cattle, that they are not much bigger than 
long legged goats. The cultivators sow and plant rice from May to July, and 
reap from September to December inclusive. An acre of good land requires by 
computation 88 seers of seed, and may produce 1269 seers. There are coco 
nut gardens in Canara, but not so many as in Malabar, rice being justly thought 
the surest and most valuable production. Some sandy ground along the beach 
and banks of rivers is, when not too wet, peculiarly adapted fo£ the growth of 
coco nuts. In such situations the trees are planted either in a scattered manner, 
or in regular gardens, where they have been left untaxed, and ought to remain 
so. When & proprietor plants a garden, he usually manages it himself, letting 
off a few trees to a toddy drawer, who pays a pagoda annually for 10, 12, or 15 
trees. Good trees are said to yield from 50 to 100 nuts annually in four crops ; 
weak trees less than 50 nuts. Betel and pepper are produced above the Western 
Ghauts, where the soil and climate are more fitted for their production than in 
Malabar. 

The greater proportion of the lands in Canara are private property, and ori- 
ginal inscriptions on stone and copper establish the antiquity of the is 



OP CANARA. 


253 

These consist of the donations of ancient princes to pagodas, &c. granting the 
land tax accruing from certain lands and villages, and thus transferring it from 
the treasury to the individual specified ; but the property in the soil was not 
conferred, because not claimed or possessed by the sovereign. In instances 
where the absolute property in the soil was granted, the deed of gift expressly 
mentions the prior purchase of the right. These inscriptions on stone and cop- 
per are found in every part of Canara, and in every pagoda, and a complete 
investigation of them would tend to illustrate the ancient history of Canara, 
perhaps of India. The different princes of Bednore, Bijanagur, and even of 
Mysore, seem never to have questioned the general rights of the people, although 
arbitrary assessments, and particular acts of oppression, may have rendered pri- 
vate estates of less value. The culture bestowed by the land owners on their 
estates proves that they always confided in the justness of their title ; and in 
fact they have been chiefly rendered valuable by the pains devoted to their 
improvement. Land is frequently pledged, and is, generally speaking, deeply 
encumbered. The usual practice of pledging land renders its sale less common ; 
but, notwithstanding the aversion felt to the total alienation of their patrimony, 
there are many instances of its actual sale. On these occasions it usually brings 
from 8 to 12 years purchase money, on the clear rent; but the inequality of the 
land tax, and the distance from great towns, cause the value to vary, and to ren- 
der it in some places not saleable. The land tax is heavier than in the northern 
parts of Malabar, and the soil is more completely cultivated, which is probably 
the cause of the comparatively higher price in Malabar. 

The lands are leased to tenants at will or to fixed tenants. The proprietors 
have power to turn out or raise the rents of the first, but it is seldom done. 
The rent lies between one quarter and one half of the gross produce. Hands 
and stock are scarce, and as the country gets more populous, rents will probably 
rise. The fixed tenants are a kind of sub-proprietors, and are in some respects 
more independent than the proprietors from whom they hold- The great diffe- 
rence between the lands in the Malabar and Canara provinces, and those of the 
other British provinces in the South of India, is, that there they are vested in 
communities, here in individuals. The villages above the Western Ghauts are 
like corporations, conimunities, municipalities, or republics, possessing the whole 
of the l a««l g , subject to certain contributions to the sovereign, who draws the 
whole land rent. If the government exacted the whole landlord s rent from 
Canara and Malabar, the present proprietors would noi be common, but indi- 
vidual tenants. 

From ^ earliest times until the middle of the 14th century, the land was 
m i at a quantity of grain equal to the quantity of rice in the husk sup- 



THE PROVINCE 


254 

posed to be necessary for seed, so that’ a field which required 10 candies paid a 
land tax of 10 candies, either in money or in kind. Between the years 1334 
and 1347/ Harihara, king of Bijanagur, made a new assessment on the prin- 
ciples laid down in the Shastras, where the crop is supposed to be to the seed as 
12 to 1. This settlement was concluded upon a rough estimate of the quantity 
of seed usually expended, and remained without alteration until the country was 
transferred to the Bednore Rajas, about the middle of the 17th century. These 
chiefs levied an additional 50 per cent. ; and in 1660, the Bijanagur and Bednore 
assessments formed the standard, which in Canara amounted to 202,229 pagodas. 

In Soonda .... 44,394 

246,623 


The land tax of Canara remained in this condition for near 
100 years, but in the 10th century, the Bednore princes 
laid on additional cesses and raised the land tax to 314,007 

Hyder laid on an extra assessment, and raised the revenue to 533,202 

And Tippoo, by further assessments and new heads of re- 
venue. to . . * 868,678 

But# this enormous sum was merelj nominal, for he was never able to collect 
more than 473,550 pagodas, of which 25,938 arose from the sale of grain and 
other items not connected with the land revenue. Major Thomas Munro took 
this settlement as the basis of his assessment of 1800, which amounted to 
465,148 pagodas, and which was regularly collected under many disadvantages; 
fbr prior to this period, Canara, for a series of years, had been desolated by op- 
pressive governments, and latterly by the confusion occasioned by the war 
between Tippoo and the British nation. When that officer entered Canara late 
in 1799, the Mysore troops were still in possession of the fortresses, which they 
did not abandon until a detachment besieged Jemaulabad. 

The rent at present received by the proprietors from fixed tenants and tenants 
at will is estimated to be generally about one half of the gross produce, the 
government tax being about 60 per cent, of the landlord’s rent, and 30 per cent, 
bf the gross pioduce. With respect to landed tenures, and the proportions 
which the landlord's and government share bear to the total produce, it is very 
difficult for the collector, assisted by a complete staff of native revenue officers, 
to come to any satisfactory conclusion* If the collector cannot ascertain* this 
point with accuracy, notwithstanding his daily intercourse with the cultivators, 
it cannot be expected to be effected by a deputed itiner ant , who calls in an 
individual to be interrogated, which person comes prepared with a serins of 



OF CANARA. 


255 

stories, the offspring of his own. genius for invention. In Canara the village ac- 
countant keeps a statement of the public revenue, but the peasant seldom keeps 
any account of his own profits and expenses, he therefore rarely can tell what 
they have been ; and if he is desired to guess, he will answer most guardedly, 
especially when he is led into the tent for the purpose of being questioned, and 
magnify his losses and diminish his profits. On entering a field with him, it ia 
the same exaggeration of loss and absence of gain, which are placed before the 
official inquirer in so strong a point of view, that he is quite surprised to find the 
worthy man alive and in good case under such horrible circumstances. 

In a country so rocky and uneven as Canara, where cattle are not only scarce 
but can seldom be employed, where every spot before it can be cultivated must 
be levelled with great labour by the hand of man, the expense of the first pre- 
paration of waste land must have been so great, that it never would have been 
attempted unless the revenue assessment had been moderate. Even after the 
land is brought into cultivation, if it be neglected for a few years, it is soon 
broken by deep gullies, formed by torrents which fall during the monsoon. In 
this province, and also in Malabar, the proprietor of land bestows on his little 
spot all that minute labour and attention, which is so important to Indian hus- 
bandry. Each man lives on his estate, and the neatness of the culture and of the 
enclosures shews the ardour with which the proprietor improves and embellishes 
his ground. In countries similar to Canara in climate, manners, and institutions, 
the arguments and examples adduced by Arthur Young in favour of large farms 
do not apply, because there is a want of stock, and general poverty, which at 
present keeps farms small ; but even after stock has accumulated, the Hindoo 
system of an equal division among coheirs will always have a tendency to keep 
them small. At present, in one district of the province only, this subdivision 
is so extreme, that the petty estates exceed 22,000 in number, some of them 
yielding only one fanam of rent. 

Canara was supposed in 1807 to contain 576,640 souls, of which number the 
Brahmins were computed at 98,610. This great proportion of Brahmins has 
probably conduced to the superior civilization of the province. The Jains are 
also more numerous than in any of the adjacent districts. The slaves resemble 
those of Malabar, and the Christians are numerous, but they are said to be of an 
inferior description to those of Travancore. Prior to the acquisition of this pro- 
vince by the Company, the population was much reduced in consequence of wars 
and internal feuds, the destruction of many principal towns by Tippoo Sultan, 
and his sending above 60,000 Christian captives into Mysore, from whence bat 
a small number ever returned. The country was consequently found ia a state of 



THE PROVINCE 


256 

desolation, with large tracts of unclaimed waste, overgrown with jungle, espe- 
cially in the vicinity of the Ghauts. 

This territory will probably never be a manufacturing country, because it pro- 
duces none of the raw materials necessary to render it such, and because the 
heavy rains which last so great a part of the year are insurmountable obstacles 
to all operations which require to be carried on in the open air under a clear sky. 
But the same rains that deny it manufactures give it a succession of never-fail- 
insr crops of rice, and render it the granary of Arabia, Bombay, Goa, and Malabar, 
which would still continue to receive their supplies from hence, were even a 
heavy duty laid on the exportation. A duty of this description would compel 
the rich Arabian (for there is no other depOt), who can afford to eat the rice of 
Canara, to contribute to the revenue of the province, nor would the amount ex- 
ported be affected by a considerable impost, although it would by any inter- 
ference of the civil power. The rise in the price does not much alarm these traders, 
but the uncertainty of getting the article at all, which the intervention of the 
magistrate always ^occasions, would effectually drive the traders from its ports. 
Even if some apprehension of famine be occasioned by a great exportation, this 
ought not to be restrained until certain symptoms of scarcity appear, and even 
then the export to the other provinces under the British government ought never 
to be either prohibited or limited. The officers of government are generally 
more liable, in their zeal for the people under their immediate protection, to for- 
bid exportation before necessity calls for so strong a measure, (than the grain- 
merchants are to export too much, and by a free export the hardships of scarcity 
would be equally shared by the common subjects of the British empire. 

Wheu an embargo on grain is laid in Canara, the market there will be either 
overstocked or much better stocked than that at Madras, so that the people of 
Canara may be surfeiting themselves with food, while their fellow subjects at the 
Presidency are starving, and the lives of the people at the latter may be sacrificed 
to the groundless fears of the local authorities in Canara. Although even a fa- 
mine should be the certain consequence of great exportation from Canara to 
Madras, the government must act for the general benefit of all their subjects, and 
it is the same thing to the sovereign, whether his subjects die of hunger at 
Madras or in Canara. Supposing a squadron of ships at sea to run short of 
water, and it happened through any accident that one had abundance, the com- 
mander would act very unjustly if he did not compel that ship to share her store 
with the others; in like manner a government ought to make the plenty of one 
province to assist the deficiencies of another, and a free communication is almost 
certain of preventing the greatest extremities of dearth* In some particular 



OF CANARA. 


257 


cases government is justified in interfering to prohibit exportation to foreign 
states, but never to their own provinces, and all their public functionaries and 
inferior officers should be forbidden ail intermeddling, whatever, with bazars, mar* 
kets, exports and imports. The land customs in Canara bear hard on the people 
and ought to be abolished, and a frontier duty, if necessary, substituted. A 
trifling revenue is raised by a toll on ferries, which ought also to be suppressed, 
for, as in India nobody travels for pleasure, it is a tax on industry. The shark-fin 
duties are trifling in amount and vexatious in the collection, and ought to be 
erased, while the passes should be kept in good order, to encourage the mer- 
chants, who bring down sandal and other upland articles, and take away salt. 

The province of Canara continued undisturbed under a Hindoo government 
until 1763, when it was subdued by Hyder. On his taking possession, it was a 
highly improved country filled with industrious inhabitants, who enjoyed greater 
advantages than their neighbours above the Ghauts. The small estates into which 
it was then sub-divided, were considered the actual property of the holders, and 
the assessment was fixed and moderate. In 1799, it was transferred to the 
British authority, and has ever since continued a solitary example of tranquil- 
lity, of an easy and regular realization of the revenue and of general pros- 
perity. This has been attributed to the nature of the tenures by which the lands 
are held, to the moderate revenue exacted, and to its local situation, which is ad- 
vantageous for the disposal of its produce. Since the cession a great improve- 
ment has been exhibited among the people in dress, mode of living, and other 
personal comforts ; the aggregate revenue has increased, and is realized with sin- 
gular punctuality, notwithstanding the numberless estates from which it is col- 
lected. The total public revenue collected in the Canara district, from the 12th 
July, 1816, to the 11th July, 1817. was as follows : — 


Land revenue 494,528 pagodas. 

Salt 60,039 

Land customs 77,931 

Abkary 9,795 

Sundry branches of revenue 7,471 

Stamps 4,340 


Tobacco monopoly • . 63,979 


Total , . 718,085 

The atrocities which were formerly so common in Malabar and Canara are now 
much less frequent. The rebellions of Malabar were not so much objects of 
police as civil wars, which burned with a smothered flame many years after the 
von. II. L L 



THE PROVINCE 


258 


[north canara. 


country devolved to the British. Canara has been quiet ever since it was ac- 
quired, because Major Munro took measures to secure tranquillity when the ter- 
ritory was first subdued. The police of Canara has since been excellent, and 
compared with the former state of these countries, the properties and persons of 
the people are secure, of which fact they are at last convinced. The collectors 
of the revenue ought to superintend the police, but should not be too much bur- 
thened with minute ordinances, which only tend to distract their attention from 
objects of greater importance. The judges would then be relieved from the 
vexatious and tedious duty of the criminal department, and would have more 
time and a less harassed mind to attend to the decision of civil suits, which are 
certainly more difficult, and perhaps as important as investigations of thefts and 
robberies. If the decision of civil suits be delayed, property becomes less va- 
luable, and the defalcations of the revenue proportionally greater. As there is 
no immediate urgency for the decision of civil suits, they are sometimes post- 
poned by the judges, but the courts of circuit come round and keep the district 
judge so on the alert in the criminal department, that the civil judicature is lia- 
ble to become a secondary consideration. 

The principal places in Canara recorded as trading ports are Mangalore, 
Ankala, Onore, Cundapoor, Barkoor, and Becul. Mangalore is the emporium 
from whence, and from others in. a lesser degree, are exported to Arabia, car- 
damoms, coir, pepper, moories, poon spars, rice, sandal wood, oil, betel nut, 
ghee, and iron ; to Goa, large supplies of rice, grain, and tobacco ; to the Ma- 
haratta countries, iron, rice, betel nut, natcherry, &c. From Arabia are imported 
dates, brimstone, salt-fish, and horses ; from Bombay, brimstone, sugar, and 
horses ; and from the Maharatta country, horses, shawls, blue cloths, &c. — 
( Thackeray , Wilks, Munro , F. Buchanan, 5th Report , Hodson , <§*c. tyc.) 

North Canara, — T he northern division of the province of Canara is situated 
between the 13th and 15th degrees of north latitude, and was formerly sub- 
divided into three small districts, Cundapoor, Onore, and Ancola. On leaving 
Devakara in North Canara, the Kamata country begins, which extends below 
the Ghauts, and occupies all the defiles leading up to the mountains. The part 
of the Hindoo Kankana (the Concan) included in this division, forming the dis- 
trict of Ancola, is larger than either of the districts into which Haigais divided. 
All the country, from Onore inclusive as far as Gaukarna, is called Haiga, and is 
said to have been formerly under the influence of Havana, king of l fln ^ or 
Ceylon. In 1800, it paid only 29,000 pagodas, while Onore produced 51 , 000 , 
and Cundapoor 50,000, which arose from Ancola’s having been long in an un- 
settled state and much ravaged by the Maharattas. 



OF CANARA. 


NOBTH CAN ABA. 3 


259 


North Canara produces sandal wood trees, sugar canes, teak, wild cinnamon, 
nutmegs, and pepper, and cut or terra japonica. In the southern part the quan- 
tity of rice ground is small, and a great part of the country is covered with low 
woods, in which are to be seen the enclosures of former gardens. The water in 
the wells is nowhere at any great distance from the surface. To the north of 
Battecolla much of the soil is poor ; in many places the laterite being entirely 
naked. About Beiluru are many groves of the calophyllum inophyllum, from 
the seed of which the common lamp oil is expressed, and in this neighbourhood 
a good coco nut tree is reckoned to produce 50 nuts annually. In 1800, the num- 
ber of teak trees cut down each year was about 3000. The mimosa catechu 
(from which the terra japonica, or cut, is made) grows spontaneously on all the hills 
in South Canara. The only cattle in the part of the district named Haiga are 
buffaloes and oxen, an equal number of which are yoked in the plough. In 
Haiga carts are not used. 

The sea coast is principally occupied by villages of Brahmins, the interior 
parts belong to the Buntar caste. About Ancola, it is not the custom for the in- 
habitants to live in towns. A few shops are collected in one place, and all the 
other natives of what is called a village are scattered upon their farms. Most 
of the people about Ancola are of Kamata extraction, but few of Concan descent 
remain, except a particular kind of Brahmins, who are all merchants, as those 
of Haiga are cultivators. Being originally descended of the Pansh Gauda, or 
Brahmins of the north of India, those of Concan are held in great contempt by 
the Dravida Brahmins, or division of the south, one of the strongest reasons as- 
signed for which is, that they eat fish. According to the Abbe Dubois, between 
Tellichery and Onore, there are five different nations, who, though mixed to- 
gether from time immemorial, still preserve their distinct languages, character, 
and national spirit. These are the Nairs, the Coorgs, the Tulavas, the Con- 
canies, and the Canarese. 

In the country about Battecolla, there are none of the Buntar caste, nor does 
the language of Tulava extend so far north. Battecolla is, properly, in the 
Haiga country, and the most common farmers are & kihd of Brahtnms, named 
Haiga, after the country, and a low caste of Hindoos, named Haiepecas. The 
Comarapeca in this division are a tribe of Concan descent, and seem to be Su- 
dras of pure birth, who properly belong to the country, in the same manner as 
the Nairs are the pure Sudras of Malabar. By birth they are all cultivators and 
soldiers, and, as usual with this class of men among, the Hindoos, strongly in- 
clined to robbery. From the anarchy which had long prevailed in this part of 
Canara, they had acquired an extraordinary degree of cruelty, and had even 
compelled many Brahmins to assume their customs and adopt their caste. 



260 THE PROVINCE [bookda. 

The principal towns here are Battecola, Ancola, Carwar, Miijaou, and Onore. 
On account of the short distance between the Western Ghauts and the sea, 
there are no rivers of great magnitude, but many mountain streams. In a parti- 
cular portion of this division, in 1800, there were 385 houses occupied by Chris- 
tians; 1500 by Mahommedans; 4834 by Brahmins ; 147 by Siva Bhaclars ; and 
87 by Jains. A Brahmin of Canara, who had written a narrative of the capture 
of Seringapatam by General Harris, although he knew it happened on a Satur- 
day, yet, because Saturday is an unlucky day, altered it to Monday, as it now 
stands in his history. Such discrepancies therefore, in Hindoo chronology, must 
not be considered by the antiquary as any proof either of ignorance or error. — 
( F. Buchanan , Sfc.) 

Soon da (or Sudka ). — This small territorial subdivision is situated above the 
Western Ghauts, but is’ comprehended m the British district of Canara. The 
town of Soonda, or rather its ruins, are in lat. 14° 43' N. long. 74° 58' E. 44 
miles N. E. from Onore. In the western part of this district the garden culti- 
vation is the chief object of the farmers, and they raise promiscuously betel nut, 
black pepper, betel leaf, cardamoms, and plantains. The garden peppers of 
Soonda and Bednore are equal in value, and are better than what grows spon- 
taneously, in the proportion of ten to nine. Towards the east of Soonda, the 
great object of cultivation is rice. The rains in this quarter are not so heavy as 
further west, but they are sufficient to ripen a crop of rice that requires six 
months for that purpose. Sugar canes, in small quantities, are also raised on 
the rice grounds. The cattle of Soonda are of a larger breed than those of 
the Concan or Haiga, but they are greatly inferior to the breed found further 
eastward. Throughout the forests, tigers and wild buffaloes abound, but there 
are not any elephants. 

During the sway of its native rajas, the country is said to have been culti- 
vated, and the town of Soonda large, comprehending, according to native au- 
thorities, three miles within the walls each way, and fully occupied with houses. 
But the district having been repeatedly the seat of war between Ryder and the 
Maharattas has been greatly devastated, and the houses in the town reduced to 
less than 100. WhenHyder acquired possession, it was said to contain 10,000. 
The outermost wall of Soonda was estimated by the natives to have been 48 
miles in circumference; and there were formerly three lines of fortifications 
round the town. Within the two spaces surrounded by the outer lines the 
houses were scattered in small dumps, with gardens between them ; but the 
whole country is now very thinly inhabited. All the arable land in Soonda Is 
considered the property of government, but the value of an estate Is fixed, and 
so long as a tenant pays his vent, it is not customary to tarn honor his heirs 



bonawasi.] OF CANARA. 201 

out. AH the villages extending along the Maharatta frontier belong to govern- 
ment, but they are in a very desolate condition. 

Imody Sedasiva,the last raja, or prince of Soonda, was expelled by Hyder 
in 1763, when he took refuge at Goa, and surrendered to the Portugueze 
the whole of his territory below the Ghauts for a stipulated pension. In 1799, 
this territory was transferred to the British government, and annexed to the 
jurisdiction of Canara. In 1814, the deposed Raja of Soonda requested permis- 
sion to visit Madras, for the ostensible purpose of obtaining medical advice, but 
in reality to lay his necessitous condition before the members of that Presidency. 
He was, however, refused permission, but recommended to state his grievances 
in writing, and rely with confidence on the justice of the British government. 
He was also warned not to place the slightest dependance on the deceitful and 
interested agency of the hordes of private intriguers at Madras. It subsequently 
appeared, that he had had the folly to apply for the intercession of the Prince 
Regent of Portugal, to obtain the restoration of the country of Soonda, and, 
although petitioning the British government as a pauper, had accompanied his 
letters with some valuable presents to the Portugueze potentate and to his minis- 
ter of colonies. — ( F. Buchanan , Wilks, 5th Report , Public MS \ Documents , &,'c.) 

Hullyhall (or Hullial ). — This place is situated about 20 miles S. W from 
Darwar. Lat. 15° 21' N. long. 74° 50' E. In 1800, Colonel Arthur Wellesley 
reported to the Madras government, that, on account of the unwholesomeness of 
the climate and the bad condition of the buildings at Mudhaghur and Soopah, 
in the province of Soonda, he had been obliged to withdraw the troops and col- 
lect the whole at Hullyhall, the fortifications of which were also in a very ruin- 
ous state. It appeared to him absolutely necessary that there should be one 
military post in the province of Soonda for its defence, and for the preservation 
of tranquillity, and that none was so little unhealthy, or in other respects so 
well calculated for the purpose, as Hullyhall. Its situation on the then Maha- 
ratta frontier, and easy communication with Goa, pointed it out as an eligible 
dlpdt for rice, arrack, and military stores ; all of which could be thrown into it 
from the Goa coast at a comparatively moderate expense. In consequence of 
this recommendation, the Madras government in 1801 authorized such repairs 
to be made on the works at Hullial as appeared immediately necessary to place 
it in a state of security ; but the frontier has been since far removed from its 
vicinity. — (Colonel Wellesley h S$c. fyc.) 

Yellapara, — A small town above the Western Ghaut mountains, in the 
Soonda district, 60 miles S. E. from the city of Goa. Lat. 15° 2' N. long. 

74*60TE. 

Bqwawasi. — A town in the Soonda divi si on, 47 miles N.fromBednore. ‘Lat.* 



262 THE PROVINCE [cut aki, 

14° 32' N. long. 75° 8' E. In Hyder’s time this place contained 500 houses, but 
is now much reduced, the surrounding country being greatly overgrown with 
jungle. This place is noted by Ptolemy, and is said to have had a dynasty of 
kings who ruled 1450 years before the Christian era. — (F. Buchanan , 8$c.) 

Cahwa'b. — A town in the province of Canara, 55 miles S. by E. from Goa. 
Lat. 14° 50' long. 74° 1 1' E. This was formerly a noted seat of European com* 
merce, the English East India Company having had a factory here so early as 
1673, but during the reign of Tippoo, the town went to total ruin. It stands in 
that portion of the Concan comprehended by the British judicial arrangements 
in the district of Canara. A considerable quantity of cut, or terra-japonica, is 
procured here, none of which grows above the Ghauts. The Maharatta mer- 
chants also come for salt. To the north of Carwar the country is very thinly 
inhabited, the hills producing nothing but bushes or stunted trees, among which 
there are scarcely any teak. 

It would appear that at one time the lands of this district belonged to Jain 
landholders, but ail these have been killed or so oppressed, that they have dis- 
appeared. There are not any slaves here. This part of the Concan, on the fell 
of the sultans of Bejagoor, became subject to the Rajas of Soonda, one of whom 
named Sedasiva Row, built the fort at the mouth of the river, and called it after 
himself. The dialect of Concan is used by the natives of Carwar in their own 
houses, but from having been long subject to Bejapoor, almost all of them can 
speak the Maharatta. — ( F. Buchanan , 8$c.) 

Anjediva Isle ( Anjndwipa ). — A small island about one mile in circum- 
ference, and two from the shore, 54 miles S. by K from Goa. Lat. 14° 44' N. 
long. 74° 13' E. In 16G2, Sir Abraham Shipman, when refused possession of 
Bombay by the Portuguese, landed on this island with his troops amounting to 
500 men, where they continued until March. 1665. During this interval they 
lost by sickness their commander, and when fit last removed to Bombay, the 
survivors of the whole mustered only two officers and 119 rank and file. — 
( Bruce, $$ c. §c.) 

Cutaki. — A small town in the province of North Canara, above the Western 
Ghauts. Lat. 14° 52' N. long. 74° 48 r E. The inhabitants of this neighbour- 
hood are mostly Haiga Brahmins, and are a very industrious class of men, who 
perform all agricultural labours with their own hands. When this part of the 
country was ceded to the British government, it was much infested by robbers 
from the Maharatta country, who are now extirpated. When the approach of 
these miscreants was known the Brahmins and other peaceable inhabitants 
used to retire from their houses with their effects, and conceal themselves in 
the jungles, even during the rainy season. Pestilence, or beasts of prey, tin 



OF CANARA. 


OHOBE.] 


263 


gentle, compared with Hindoo robbers, who, in order to discover concealed pro- 
perty, put to the torture all who fall into their hands. — (F. Buchanan, §c.) 

Gaukarna. — A* town on the sea coast of North Canara, 21 miles N. by W. 
from Onore. Lat. 14° 32' N. long. 75° 25' E. This place is very much scat- 
tered among coco-nut palms, and contains about 500 houses, of which one half 
are occupied by Brahmins, who highly esteem Gaukarna on account of an image 
of Siva named Mahaboliswara. About six miles to the north is Gangawali, an 
inlet of fresh water, which separates the Hindoo geographical division, named 
Haiga, or Haiva, from Kankana (Concan). Canoes can go several miles up this 
stream to the foot of the Ghauts. The salt made in this part of the country, 
where there are the same natural advantages as at Goa, is very bad, and scarcely 
saleable at any market. — ( F. Buchanan , fycj 

Makjaow (Medijay ). — A town in the district of North Canara, 15 miles N. 
from Onore. Lat. 14° 28' N. long. 74° 30' E. 

Dr. Robertson thinks this is the Musiris of the ancients, from whence they 
exported a variety of silk stuffs, rich perfumes, tortoise shell, different k^inds of 
transparent gems, especially diamonds, and large quantities of pepper. Except 
the latter, none of the articles above enumerated are at present produced in the 
country adjacent to Marjaow. 

Sedasheoghur (Scdasiva Ghar). — A town on the sea coast of the Canara 
province, 45 miles N. N. W. from Onore. Lat. 14° 51' N. long. 74° 9' E. 

Compta. — A town on the sea coast of the Canara province, 12 miles N. N. W. 
from Onore. Lat. 14° 25' N. long. 74° 29' E. 

Onore ( Hanavara ).— A sea-port town in the district of North Canara situ- 
ated in lat. 14° 16' N. long. 75° 32' E. This was formerly a place of great 
commerce, where Hyder had established a dock-yard for building ships of war, 
but it was totally demolished by Tippoo when it was recovered at the treaty of 
Mangalore. There is now a custom-house here, and a part of the town has 
been rebuilt. Boats come from Goa and Rajapoor to purchase rice, betel nut, 
pepper, salt fish, &c. which were formerly much annoyed by piratical boats from 
the Maharatta coast. In this part of Canara there never were manufactures to 
any considerable amount, and the trade was wholly destroyed by Tippoo. The 
Portugueze erected a fort here so early as 1505. The lake of Onore is of great 
extent, and like that ol Cundapoor contains many islands, some of which are 
cultivated. It reaches nearly to the Ghauts, and in the dry season is almost 
salt; but it receives many small streams, which during the rainy season become 
torrents and render the whole fresh. It abounds with fish* which when salted 
form a considerable article of commerce with the inland country.— ( F. Buchanan , 
Bruce, t$c.) 



THE PROVINCE 


264 


[south CAXTAti. 


Fortified Island (Baswa Rasa Durga ). — A small island about a mile in 
circumference, situated a little way north from the entrance of Onore bay. It 
was originally fortified by an Ikeri Raja, and greatly strengthened by Tippoo, 
who intended to make it his naval arsenal. When taken from him in 1792 by 
three British frigates, the garrison consisted of 200 men, with 34 pieces of can* 
non, besides military stores, and almost the whole iron work of a 60 gun ship, 
which had been scuttled and sunk. — ( Dirom , §c. 8$c.) 

Battecollah ( Batucala ). — A considerable town on the sea coast of Canara, 
the name of which signifies the round town. Lat. 13° 56' N. long. 74° 37' E. 
This place stands on the north bank of a small river, the Scandaholay, which 
waters a very beautiful valley, surrounded on every side by hills, and in an ex- 
cellent state of cultivation. At the public expense eight dams are annually 
made, in order to water their rice grounds, which are constructed of earth, and 
only intended to collect the stream during the dry season. 

Barcelore (Bassurtn'u). — A town on the sea coast of the Canara province, 
55 miles N. by W. from Mangalore. Lat. 13° 37' N. long. 74° 47' E. This place 
has been conjectured by some, probably on account of its name, to have been 
the port Barace of the ancients. In 1575, Barcelore was governed by a Ranny 
or female sovereign, and it formerly possessed a considerable trade with Arabia. 

Kundapoor. — A town in the Canara province, 55 miles N. N. W. from Man- 
galore. Lat. 13° 38' N. long. 74° 46' E. This place is situated on the banks of 
a river, which in different places is called by different names, according to the 
villages it passes, and it is generally reckoned to mark the boundary of North and 
South Canara. It is at present a place of some trade, and on the north side of 
the river Tippoo had a dock, but the water over the bar, even at spring tides, 
does not exceed 134 feet. The river, or rather lake, at Kundapoor, has only one 
opening into the sea, but receives five streams of fresh water. 

South Canara. — The southern division of the province of Canara, situated 
between the 12th and 14th degrees of north latitude. The country to the north 
of the river Chandraghiri, where Malabar ends, is called Tulava by the Hindoos, 
and South Canara by the British. 

The soil of Tulava gradually grows worse for grain as it is distant from the 
sea. The best in quality extends from Mangalore to Buntwalla, the next from 
thence toPunjalcotta, and the worst from thence to the hills. About Cavila, east 
of Mangalore, some of the hills are covered with tall forests, in which the teak 
tree is found. The strata of Tulava, near the sea-coast, resemble entirely those 
of Malabar, and consist of laterite orbrickstone, with a very few rocks of granite 
interspersed. Poor land of every description requires more seed than richer 
land of the same kind. A garden of 300 acres requires the labour of six peo- 



SOUTH CAXABA.] OF CANARA. 265 

pie if it be watered from a well, but of only three if it be watered from a tank. 
Cultivators who are nch keep from 20 to 25 ploughs, but at least one half of 
the actual farmers have only one. From Urigara to Hossodurga, the country 
near the sea is low and sandy, and too poor to produce even coco nuts. The 
exports by land consist chiefly of salt fish, betel nut, ginger, coco-nut oil, ana 
raw silk. The imports by land are chiefly cloths, cotton, thread, blankets, to- 
bacco, and black cattle, with a small quantity of pepper and sandal wood. 

In 1800 , this division of the Canara province contained 20G,G33 males and 
190,039 females. This excess of the male over the female population lias also 
been found to prevail in the Barrahmahal, and other parts of the south of India. 
The number of houses was about 80,000. of which there were 2545 inhabited by 
Christians; 5223 by Mahommedans ; 7187 by Brahmins ; 2700 by Jains; and 
the remainder by different low castes of Hindoos. The number of slaves of 
both sexes was 7924 . Swine are kept by some of the low castes, but the pork 
of tame swine is an abomination with the Bunts, as with the higher ranks of 
Hindoos, although many of them relish the flesh of the wild hog. At the above 
date, no horses, sheep, goats, or asses were bred in Tulava, nor had its inhabi- 
tants any carts. 

To judge from appearances, the occupiers of land in this division are richer 
than those of Malabar, who are probably in easier circumstances than those of 
Coimbatoor, or those above the Ghauts. The universal cry of poverty in India, 
and the care with which every thing is concealed, render it very difficult to ascer- 
tain the real circumstances of the cultivator. A good slave sells for about 10 
pagodas or 4 guineas ; free men of low caste, if they be in debt or trouble, some- 
times sell their sisters’ children, who are their heirs, for they have no authonty 
over their own children, who belong to their maternal uncles. The Brahmms of 
Tulava, like the Namburies (Brahmins) of Malabar, pretend that the country 
was created expressly for their use by Parasu Rama, and thai they are the only 
persons entitled to be called proprietors of the soil. In th^ northern parts of 
South Canara there are two castes, called Bacadaru and Batadaru, both of which 
are slaves, and have exactly the same customs ; yet each disputes for pre-emi- 
nence, and will not eat or intermarry with the other. 

Along the sea coast from Cavai to Urigara, the inhabitants are principally 
Moplays (Mahommedans), who now possess the sea coast as the Nairs do the 
interior. Although the Nairs are more numerous than the Moplays, yet during 
Tippoo’s reign, when not protected by government, the Hindoos were obliged 
to skulk in the woods, and all such as could be catched were circumcised. This 
mode of conversion, however involuntary, is perfectly effectual, and the convert 
becomes a good Mahommedan, as otherwise he would have no caste at all: and 



THE PROVINCE 


266 


[SOUTH CANAftA* 


although the doctrine of caste be no part of the Mahommedan faith, yet it has 
been fully adopted by the lower rank of Mahommedans in India. 

The chief towns in this division of the Canara province are Mangalore, Bar- 
celore, and Callianpoor ; there are no rivers of magnitude or consequence, but 
many mountain streams. The language of Tulava, or South Canara, has a strong 
resemblance to that of Malabar, and the written characters are the same ; but 
in the language of Tulava there is a greater admixture of words from all tbe 
countries, containing the five southern nations of India, viz. : — Telinga, Maha- 
rashtra, Kamataca, Gujura, and Dravida. In Tulava, the era of Salivahanam 
is m use, by which year A. D. 1800 corresponds with 1722, but to. the north it is 
reckoned the year 1723. The year is solar. The people of this district, although 
longer subjected to a foreign yoke than those of Malabar, never were so entirely 
subdued as the greater part of the Hindoos, and have always been able success- 
fully to resist the pretensions of their governors to be proprietors of the soil. 

The former sovereigns of Tulava, princes of the House of Ikeri, had always 
given great encouragement to the Christians, and had induced 80,000 of them 
to settle there. They were all of Concan descent, and retained the language, 
dress, and manners of the people of that country. The clergy adopted the 
dress of the country to which they belonged, but they are all natives, descended 
from Concan families, and were purposely educated in a seminary at Goa, 
where they were instructed in the Portugiieze and Latin languages, and in the 
doctrines of the Church of Rome. In Tulava they had 27 churches, each pro- 
vided with a vicar, and the whole under the controul of a vicar-general, subject 
to the Archishop of Goa. Tippoo threw the priests into dungeons, forcibly 
converted the laity to Islamism, and destroyed the churches. The Christian 
religion does not, like the Hindoo, prevent the re-admission of such delinquents 
into the church, and these involuntary Mahommedans nave in general reconciled 
themselves with the clergy, more than 15,000 having returned to Mangalore and 
its vicinity; 10,000 made their escape from Tippoo to Malabar, from whence 
also they are gradually returning. These poor people have none of the vices 
usually attributed to the native Portugueze, and their superior industry is ac- 
knowledged by the neighbouring Hindoos. 

The Jain sect abound more in this province than any of India, and at no re- 
mote distance of time must have been the prevailing sect; many Jain temples 
still remain. The proper name of the Jain sect is Arhita, and they acknowledge 
that they are one of the 21 sects who are considered here^cal by Sancara 
Acharja. Like other Hindoos, they are divided into Brahmin, Khetri, Taisya, 
and Sudra. These castes cannot intermarry; nor should widows bum with 
their husbands. Hie vedas and 18 purans of the Brahmins, tbe Jains reject it 



OF CANARA. 


SOUTH C ANAR A.] 


267 


heretical* They say that these books were composed by a saint named Vyasa, 
whom the orthodox Brahmins consider as an incarnation of the deity. Their 
chief book of doctrine is named Yoga. It is written in the Sanscrit language 
and character of Kamata, and is explained by 24 purans, all written by its au- 
thor named Vrishana Sayana, a saint, who by long continued prayer had ob- 
tained a knowledge of divine things. They admit that all Brahmins are by birth 
of equal rank. The gods of the Jains are the spirits of perfect men, who on 
account of their great virtue, have become exempt from change, and are all of 
equal rank and power. They are called collectively by various titles, such as 
Jineswara, Arhita (the worthy), and Siddha (the holy). These saints reside in 
a heaven called Mocsha. Concerning the great gods of the 18 purans of the or- 
thodox Brahmins, the Jains say that Vishnu was a Raja, who having performed 
certain good works was born a second time as a Raja, named Rama. At first 
he was a great hero and conqueror, but afterwards he retired from the pleasures 
of the world and became a Sanyassi (a solitary devotee), and lived a life of 
such purity that he obtained Siddha under the name of Jina, which he had as- 
sumed when he gave up his earthly kingdom. 

By the orthodox Brahmins, who follow the doctrines of Vyasa, the Jains are 
frequently confounded with the Saugata, or worshippers of Buddha. Their 
doctrine has in many points a great resemblance to that which is taught in Ava 
by the followers of Buddha. The Jain Brahmins abstain from lay affairs, and 
dress like those who follow the doctrines of Vyasa. Their gooroos, or chief 
priests, have the power of fining their followers who cheat or lie, commit adul- 
tery or murder. The fines are given to the gods, that is to say, to the priest. 

The Jains are scattered throughout Hindostan, but at present they are not 
numerous, except in South Canara. They have two sorts of temples, the one 
covered with a roof, and called Busty ; the other, an open area surrounded by a 
wall, and called Betta, which signifies a hill. In the temples called Betta, the only 
image of a saint is that of a person named Gomuta Raya, who, while on earth, 
was a powerful king. The images of Gomuta Raya are naked, and always of 
a colossal size. The one at Carculla is made of a single piece of granite, the 
extreme dimensions of which, above ground, are 38 feet in height, and 10 feet 
in thiclqiess. By an inscription on it, it appears to have been constructed in the 
year A* D. 1431. 

The Brahmins generally abound in the odium theologicum ; it* is, however, be- 
tween the Madual and Sri Vaishnavam, although both followers of Vishnu, that 
the most violent antipathy prevails. The Smartal Brahmins, although adherents 
of Siva, agree much better with die Madual, and in South Canara and Malabar 

mm2 



268 THE PROVINCE [ejkukv. 

these live on tolerable terms. In South Canara it is not uncommon for one 
temple to belong to both gods, and in most places there the temples of Vishnu 
and Siva are built near to each other, and the same chariot serves for the pro- 
cession of both idols. To the east of the Ghauts the Madua Brahmins scorn to 
serve as priests, even in the temples of Vishnu, and are the proudest of the 
whole sacred order. They look with abhomnee on the doctrines which inculcate 
that the spirits of good men are after death absorbed into the deity ; in which 
they differ both from the Smartal or Siva Brahmins and the Sri Vaishnavam 
Brahmins. Madua Acharya, the chief of the Madual Brahmins, was bom at 
Paduca Chaytra, about six centuries ago, but had gone through several prior 
incarnations. 

Tra van core, Malabar, and South Canara (or Tulava), alone escaped Mahom- 
medan conquest, until the two latter were invaded by Hyder, A. D. 1765-6. 
(F. Buchanan , tyc.) 

Udifu. — A small town situated about three miles from the sea, near a river 
called the Papasani, 39 miles N. N. W. from Mangalore. Lat. 13° 25' N. long. 
74° 48' E. 

Jemaujlabad { Jamalahad ). — A town in the division of South Canara, origi- 
nally named Narsmga Angady. Lat. 13° 3' N. long. 75° 25' E. The fort built 
here by Tippoo stands on an immense rock, which is wholly inaccessible except 
by one narrow way. and may be deemed impregnable. The nature of the 
access to it renders the descent in the face of an enemy nearly as difficult as 
the access; so that a very small body of men with artillery are adequate to 
blockade a strong garrison, which renders the place of little use, except as a 
safeguard for treasure. 'When Seringapatam had fallen, Tippoo’s garrison were 
summoned, but held out for a month and a half; when, after three days bom- 
bardment, the soldiers ran off, the commandant poisoned himself, and the prin- 
cipal officers who submitted to be taken were hanged.— -f F s Buchanan , §c.) 

Carculla.— An open town in the province of South Canara, containing 
above 200 houses, 27 miles N. by E. from Mangalore. Lat. 13° 16' N. long. 
75° 3f E. Near this place are the ruins of the palace of the Byrasu Wodears 
(chiefs),, the most powerful of the former Jain Rajas of Tulava, or South 
Canara. 

Einuru for Yennoor ). — A small town in the district of South Canara* Lat* 
13° $ N. long. 75° 16' E. This place contains eight temples belonging to the 
Jains, and one to die Siva Brahmins. The former have an allowance of 14' 
pagodas, and the latter of 1*0 pagodas. As in this part of the country the wor- 
shippers of Jain are more numerous than those of Siva, the temples of the former 



MANGALORE.] OF CANARA. 269 

ought to have the best endowments ; but while the native officers of government 
are mostly Brahmins, pretence will never be wanting for distressing the Jain 
temples. At this place there is an immense colossal image of one of the gods 
worshipped by the Jains, which stands in the open air, and is formed of one 
solid piece of granite. — ( F. Buchanan, ty\) 

Moolky. — A town in the Canara province, 16 miles N. by W. from Mangalore. 
Lat. 13° T N. long. 74° 55' E. 

Mangalore ( Mangalur ). — A flourishing sea-port town in the province of 
Canara, situated on a salt lake, which is separated from the sea by a beach of 
sand. At high water and in fine weather ships of less than ten feet water can 
enter it. Lat. 12° 53' N. long. 74° 57' E. This town is named Codeal Bunder, 
is large, and built round the sides of the peninsula, in the elevated centre of 
which the fort was placed. The lake by which the promontory is formed is a 
most beautiful piece of salt water. Ten miles further up the river is the small 
town of Areola, which is likewise called Feringhy Pettah, having formerly been 
inhabited by Concan Christians, invited to reside there by the Ikeri Rajas. 
Its situation on the northern bank of the southern Mangalore river is very fine* 
and it was formerly a large town ; but after Tippoo had taken General Matthews 
and his army, in 1783, he destroyed the town and carried away the inhabitants. 
The whole of the country above Mangalore resembles Malabar, only the sides of 
the hills have not been formed into terraces with equal industry ; the cattle also 
resemble those of Malabar in their diminutive size. 

In Hyder s reign the principal merchants at Mangalore were Moplays and 
Concanies, but since the British acquired the government, many men of property 
have come from Surat, Cutch, Bombay, and other places to the north. These 
men are chiefly of the Vaisya caste, but there are many Parsees among them. 
The shopkeepers are still mostly Moplays and Concanies. The vessels em- 
ployed in trade generally belong to other ports. 

Rice is the grand article of export, being sent to Muscat in Arabia, Gon, 
Bombay, and Malabar. In 1800, the current price was 2.v. 8 d, to 3s. Gd. per 
bushel; and in 1803, out of 11 lacks of rupees, the total export of Mangalore, 
rice composed nine lacks, and was then subject to an export duty of ten per 
cent. Next to rice as an export is betel nut, then black pepper ; sandal wood is 
sent from hence to Bombay, but it is the produce of the country above the 
Ghauts; ca ssra 01 dhal-china is sent, to Muscat : and turmeric to Muscat. Cutch, 
Surat, and Bombay. Salt is made on this coast by a process similar to that 
used m Malabar, but the quantity manufactured is very inadequate to the wants 
of tile country, on which account it is imported ‘from Bombay and Goa, and sells 



THE PROVINCE 


270 


[hossobetta. 


for 3 d. per bushel. Raw silk for the use of the manufacturers above the Ghauts, 
and sugar, are imported from Bengal and China, and oil and ghee (boiled butter) 
from SuTat. Much of the cloth used in the country is brought from above the 
Ghauts^ The maund at Mangalore is only 28J pounds, by which weight the 
Company buy and sell. 

Mangalore at a very early period was a great resort of Arabian vessels, the 
productions being peculiarly adapted to that country. The Portuguese also 
carried on an extensive commerce, and had a factory established here. In 1596, 
the Arabs of Muscat being at war with the Portugueze, one part of the Arabian 
fleet run down the coast of Africa and destroyed the Portugueze settlement at 
Bombazar : while the other, stretching across the Indian seas, burned the factory 
belonging to that nation at Mangalore. In February, 1768, it was taken by a 
detachment from Bombay ; but retaken by Hyder immediately afterwards, and 
the garrison made prisoners. In 1783, Mangalore again surrendered to a force 
from Bombay, and after the destruction of General Matthews and his army, 
sustained a long siege by Tippoo, during which the garrison, under Colonel 
Campbell, made a most gallant defence. The whole power of that prince, 
assisted by his French allies, could not force a breach that had long been open, 
and he was repulsed in every attempt to carry the place by storm. After the con- 
clusion of the peace in 1784, it was given up to Tippoo a mere heap of rubbish; 
what remained was wholly destroyed by him, having learned from experience 
how little his fortresses were calculated to resist European soldiers, and with 
what difficulty he could retake any of them that were garrisoned by British 
troops. In 1806, the population of Mangalore was estimated at 30,000 inhabi- 
tants, and it has probably greatly increased since. Travelling distance from 
Seringapatam 162 miles; from Madras 440 miles. — ( F, Buchanan , Bruce » Lord 
Vahntia , A, H. Hamilton, 8$c.) 

Buntwalla. — A town in South Canara, 15 miles east from Mangalore. Lat 
12° 54' N. long. 74° 50' E. 

Eetul. — An inland town in the Canara province, 19 miles 8 . S. E, from Man- 
galore. Lat. 12° 46' N. long. 75° 13' E. 

Cumlv (Camala ). — A town and fort in the district of South Canara, 25 miles 
south by east from Mangalore. This place stands on a high peninsula in a salt 
water lake, which is separated from the sea by a spit of sand. The country 
to the north of the Cumly river formerly belonged to the Rajas of the Jain 
religion, but the last of the Buntar Jain Rajas was hanged by Tippoo* 

Hossobetta. — A small town on the sea coast of South Canara, 14 miles 
south by east from Mangalore. Lat. 12* 42' N1 long. 75° E. Near to this 



OF CANARA. 


371 

place is a large straggling town, named Manjeswara, containing many good 
houses chiefly inhabited by Moplays, Buntars, and Biiuars. The principal inha* 
bitants of Hossobetta, and of many other towns in Tulava, are Concanies, or 
people descended from the natives of Cohcan. It is reported they fled hither 
to escape a persecution at Govay (Goa), their native country, an order to con- 
vert them having arrived from Portugal. The rich immediately removed, and 
the poor who remained behind was converted .to what was called Christianity. — 
( F. Buchanan, $$c.) 



THE PROVINCE OF MALABAR. 

(MALAYAVAR, THE REGION OF MALABAR.) 


This region extends along the western coast of India from Cape Comorin to, 
the river Chandraghiri, in lat. 12* 30' N. but the term is frequently erroneously! 
applied to the whole country from Bombay to the southern extremity. The\ 
province of Malabar is a particular portion of the coast to which this name is \ 
appropriated, the other modern subdivisions being Cochin and Travancore; but \ 
in Hindoo geographical systems the whole region is denominated Kerala. The 
Malabar language extends as far north as Neeliseram, where commences the 
country of Tulava (misnamed Canara;, and the Tulava language. In some an- 
cient tables, Tulava is considered a subdivision of Kerala, which is said to have 
extended from Gaukarna, round Cape Comorin, to the river Tumbrapurni, in 
Tinnevelly. What immediately follows under this head relates chiefly to the 
modern British province of Malabar, which comprehends several sections of 
country not strictly belonging to the Hindoo region of that name, but a very 
great proportion of the statistical observations, and of the descriptions of the 
manners, customs, institutions, &c. are equally applicable to territories of Tra- 
vancore and Cochin, and will be referred to when these countries come under 
examination. 

According to Mr. Thackeray, the British district of Malabar contains 7249 
square miles ; of which Wynaad occupies 1250 square miles, and a portion of 
Cochin 745 square miles. The countries of Malabar and Canara lie immedi- 
ately below the Western Ghauts, and the sea is everywhere in sight. These 
countries are comparatively low, but broken and much interspersed with back 
water, rivers, and extensive ravines, shaded with forest and jungle, and filled 
with population ; for the upland is barren, and it is in the ravines and on the 
margins of the rivers that the inhabitants reside. In the month of February,, 
the low country becomes excessively hot, and the vapours and exhalations so 
thick that it is difficult to distinguish objects at the distance of five miles; 
which curious process may be viewed from the tops of the mountains, where the 
cold is scarcely supportable. The heat increasing during the months of March 
and April, a prodigious quantity of this moisture is collected, which remains day 



PROVINCE OF MALABAR. 


273 

and night in a floating state, sometimes ascending nearly to the tops of the 
mountains, when it is checked or condensed b} the cold, but descending mime 
diately after it is again rarified, and becomes vapour before it can reach the 
earth. In this state of floating perturbation it continues until the setting in of 
the western monsoon, when the whole is condensed into rain, some falling on the 
low country, some among the mountains, and what escapes is blown across My- 
sore, .immediately over the Seringapatam valley. 

The British province of Malabar extends about 200 miles along the sea coast, 
and may be divided into two portions By far the most extensive consists of 
low hills separated by narrow vallies, and from the Gnauts this always extends 
a considerable distance to the westward, and sometimes even to the sea. The 
hills are seldom of any considerable height, but in general have steep sides and 
level summits. The sides possess the best soil, and are m many places formed 
into terraces. The summits are bare in many parts* and, especially towards the 
north, expose to the view large surfaces of naked rock. The vallies contain, in 
general, rivulets that convey away the superfluous water, but in some places the 
declination is not sufficient, and in the rainy season the ground is much over- 
flowed. The soil in these vallies is extremely fertile. 

The second portion of Malabar consists of poor sandy soil, and is confined to 
the plain uii the sea coast, seldom above three miles wide, and in general not 
so much. Near the low hills these plains are the most level, and best .fitted for 
the cultivation of rice. Nearer the sea they are more unequal in their surface, 
and rise into low downs admirably adapted for the coco-nut tree. This division 
of the country is wonderfully intersected by inlets of the sea, which often run 
for great lengths parallel to the coast, receiving the various mountain streams, 
and communicating with the ocean by different narrow and shallow openings. 
In other places, where there are none of these salt inlets, the low lands .within 
the downs on the sea coast, are, in the rainy season, totally overflowed ; for the 
fresh water has then no vent, and must consequently stagnate until it gradually 
evaporates. As it dries up it leaves the sands fit for some particular kinds of* 
rice ; and it is probably owing to this cultivation that the stagnate waters do 
not injure the salubrity of the air ; for Malabar, generally, may be esteemed a 
healthy .country. The rivers and mountain streams are here very numerous, but 
on ac&outit of the vicinity of the Western Ghauts to the sea, their courses are 
very short. Few of the nyers have any peculiar appellation, but each portion 
is called after the most remarkable place near to which it flows. In the Irnadu 
division, gold dust is collected in the river which passes Nilambur, and is a 
branch of that which fells into the sea at Parapanada. 

The forests in this province being private property, application must be made 

VO*. II, N K 



THE PROVINCE 


874 

to the landlord for permission to cut down any particular tree, which is not re- 
quisite in all parts of India. There is a great deal of valuable teak timber 
about Manarghaut, but being remote from a navigable river, the expense of men 
and elephants for transporting it even a short distance would be too great to 
admitof profit. Besides this, the forests are claimed by the Nairs, who pretend 
to a proprietary right in the soil and trees, which, whether well founded or not, 
they have actually exercised by selling and mortgaging the trees to Moplay 
merchants. These forests yield but little income to the persons who now claim 
the property, because their ignorance and poverty prevent their availing them- 
selves of the possession. The sandal wood is not the produce of Malabar, but 
as the greater part of it grows immediately above the Western Ghauts, all that 
is produced towards the sources of the Cavery ought to come to Malabar, as 
the nearest sea coast from whence it can be exported. The sandal wood is of 
the best quality, but the few trees that are found within the limits of Malabar 
are totally devoid of smell. The palm, which in Malabar is called the brab (bo- 
rassus) is in such immense quantities about Palighaut, that the jagory prepared 
from it commonly sells at one fanam per tolam, or 2s. 7 id. per cwt. With pro- 
per care an excellent spirit might be extracted from it. 

There are few villages or towns in Malabar, except along the sea coast, every 
man living distinct on his estate or farm. The gardens are usually enclosed 
with a high bank and deep gulley, like a rampart and ditch ; the houses are 
built within the enclosure under the shade of the jack, betel-nut, and coco-nut 
trees. The high grounds are scarped into terraces, one above the other, for the 
culture of dry grains, and the vallies are laid out in rice fields. The houses of 
the cultivators are built on the rising grounds which surround the vallies, and 
the whole presents a pleasing prospect, consisting of vallies surrounded by rising 
grounds, embellished with cottages and plantations, and these overtopped by 
hills cut into terraces. 

Many varieties of rice are cultivated, according to soil and season, the whole 
chiefly watered by the periodical rains. The inhabitants plough but superfi- 
cially, burn the roots and grass turned up, and manure with ashes and leaves ; 
in some parts with salt mud. The seed is sown from March to July, but mostly 
in April and May ; the harvest is reaped from July to January. Some lands are 
said to return only 3, some 16, of the seed expended ; on some lands 2, on 
others 3 crops are produced annually. The first crop may be sown in April, 
after a month it is weeded, and in four months the grain is ripe, having under- 
gone altogether three weedings. The second crop is ploughed from July to Sep- 
tember, in a month is transplanted, is weeded twice, and ripe in three months. 
For the third crop (which is probably too many), they plough and sow in 



OF MALABAR. 


275 

December or January, weed every month, and for want of rain are obliged to 
have recourse to small reservoirs of water. The dry cultivation is of little im- 
portance. The soil on the hills is gravelly and stony ; that along the coast a 
sandy, light, poor soil ; about the Ghauts rather more mixed with rich vegetable 
mould. The heavy rains of Malabar and Canara seem to tear away the soil and 
leave nothing but loose stones and sand on the hills. Some vallies are very rich, 
because they become the receptacles of the fine particles of mould which stop 
when they can be carried no further ; but on the whole the soil of the province 
is poor. 

There have been many discussions about the average produce of coco-nut 
trees, some estimating it at 19, others at 42, while the natives admit of 24 annu- 
ally from each fruit-bearing tree ; but it is impossible to fix the produce exactly. 
Some good trees, well taken care of, in suitable soil and situation, will yield 500 
nuts, while others in a bad soil and neglected will not produce a dozen. It has 
been calculated, that in Malabar there are three millions of coco-nut trees ; but 
it is an absurd attempt for a sovereign to count the nuts of a whole province. 
At present one third of the gross produce is taken as a tree-tax, the trees being 
ranged in different classes ; but as the inhabitants always conceal a great deal, 
probably not more than one fifth is realized by government. 

Black pepper has long been the chief article of European export from Mala- 
bar, as they usually purchase about five-eighths of all produced, and carry it 
principally to Europe direct, or to Bombay and China, for which last mentioned 
market many articles, the produce of Malabar, are peculiarly suited. The re- 
mainder is chiefly exported by native traders to the bay of Bengal, Surat, Cutch, 
Sinde, and other countries in the north-west of India, and a considerable quan- 
tity goes to the Arabian merchants of Muscat, Mocha, Hodeida, and Aden. In 
Malabar, the plant is chiefly propagated by cuttings, and requires much care 
while young, as during the hot season it must be watered, and its roots.shel- 
tered by leaves. It is supported by jack trees, which produce their own pecu- 
liar fruit, and probably afford some nourishment to the pepper vine, which bears 
about the fourth or fifth year, and yields from three to seven pounds weight, ac- 
cording to circumstances. Government takes a share of the supposed produce, 
which, like tythes in England, tends to discourage the culture ; but on the 
Other hand, no particular encouragement ought to be given to the growth of 
pepper, or indeed of any other produce of the earth, on which the land-tax 
ought to remain fixed and invariable. By lightening the taxation of the ground 
appropriated to any particular production, government, in fact, offers a bounty 
for its culture, and may thus promote the increase of what is already redundant, 
and indirectly discourage the production of something else. The land ought to 

K X 2 



THE PROVINCE 


276 

be equally taxed, whatever be its produce, and, if wanted, a distinct revenue 
may be raised by a fiscal duty on the article ; by which arrangement the pro- 
prietor would neither be stimulated to the culture of any particular article, nor 
deterred by a high land rent. Pepper is an article of which but a small propor- 
tion is for home- consumption, and must be exported; a duty on exportation 
would consequently be less oppressive than a direct tax on production* so heavy 
as one half, or one third, or even one fourth; and with reasonable attention, 
smuggling might be prevented. For half the year a contraband trade is not 
practicable by sea or Jod, because the ports and passes are equally shut by the 
prevalence of the monsoon. Neither ships nor bullocks can pass from May to j 
September, and the vexation of custom-house officers would be much less than ^ 
a direct assessment on each pepper vine ; in both cases the frauds and embez- \ 
zlements would be about equal 

Almost the whole land m Malabar, cultivated and uncultivated* is private 
property, held by tenure right which convevs full and absolute interest in the 
soil. The origin of landed property here is ancient and obscure, and admits of 
much speculation. The history which appears most satisfactory to the natives 
assertsv that both Malabar amd Canara were created, or rather raised from the 
bottom of the sea, for the use of the Brahmins ; but without going so ftfr back, 
it may be observed, that the present landlords and their ancestors appear to 
have. had possession for a space of time beyond tradition, and that the validity 
of their tenure has never been doubted. There are rules established of great 
antiquity for the transfer, lease, and mortgage of estates, which could never 
have been the case if the property in the soil had been solely vested in the sove- 
reign. The adjacent countries of Travancore, Cochin, Bednore, and Canara, 
have the same iflsttotftions, and nearly the same rulefe regarding private property, 
which never seem to have been called in > question or disputed by any public 
authori tv except Tippoo. It appears next to certain also, that originally all the 
lanch in Malabar belonged to a hierarchy, and were attached to certain pago- 
das; but at a vefy early period were largely alienated to the present proprie- 
tors (Jelmkars), and many usurped since the period of Hyder’s invasion. The 
Moplays under the Mysore Mahommedan dynasty, and the Rajas, have proba- 
bly possessed themselves of lands to which they had no right ; but their indi- 
vidual usurpations do not affect the general rights of the proprietors, who coil- 
s/der them fully as solid and sacred as the tenures of landed gentlemen in 
England, If a proprietor die intestate, and without heirs, the estate escheats 
to the sovereign, but as the landholders claim tod practise the privilege of adop- 
tion, and the power of devising their estate in whatever manner they choose, but 
especially to pagodas, lands seldom revert to the state for want of heirs. 



OF MALABAR. 


277 

In this province lands are frequently so deeply involved and alienated by 
debts contracted, that in many cases the Jelmkar, or original proprietor, only 
receives a handful of grain or measure of ghee as an acknowledgment of his 
title. The value of estates vary, but are said to average 20 years purchase, 
reckoning on the clear rent. The Moplays are the great purchasers and mort- 
gagees, their wealth, industry, and habits of business, giving them great advan- 
tage over the idle and dissolute Nairs. In Cotiote and the northern division, 50 
per cent, and in the southern, 80 per cent, of the rent, is said to be paid to 
government, but this in both cases is exaggerated. The inequality is probably 
owing to the different nature of the country, for the southern parts are more 
open, and it is likely, that Tippoo, in the course of a few years, would have 
forced the landholders to pay the whole rent to government, in which event, they 
would have ceased to be proprietors, and would have dwindled down to mere 
cultivators. But Cotiote and the northern divisions were never thoroughly sub- 
dued by the Mysore Sultans, the strength of the country consequently enabled 
the people to defend their rents and continue landed proprietors, and perhaps 
this cause accounts for the existing rights in the soil claimed by the inhabitants 
of the countries of the Western Ghauts, Bednore, Canara, Malabar, andTravan- 
core. This species of property may possibly at one time have existed more ge- 
nerally in Hindostan ; but in other provinces of India, armies of horse could 
carry into immediate execution the mandates of a despot, who never admitted 
of proprietary rights, because his wants incited, and his power enabled him to 
draw the whole of the landlords’ rent. The settlement of Oushed Beg Khan 
(Hyder’s deputy) in 1782 is said to be the foundation of the one made by the 
British commissioners but the nature of that officer’s settlement, and the amount 
of his collections, admit of much dispute, for as Malabar was never thoroughly 
subdued and settled, like other .countries long subject to the great sovereignties 
of the Deccan, there ftever was any regular establishment of village registers. 
Even the Menewans, who now kee the havelly accounts, are not on the same 
footing as the hereditary Curnums, or village accountants of the other provinces, 
nor are they at all skilful in their vocation. The survey of some districts in Ma- 
labar has been made at the expense of the British government, but it seems 
more the business of the proprietor. Where government is the sole proprietor, 
as in the Balaghaut ceded districts, a survey is required ; but in countries where 
lank is private property and the tax unalterably fixed, the fameinecessity does 
not appear to exist. 

The succession of landed property is guided by the same rules which govern tlie 
succession to other sorts of property. Among those castes where the sister s son 
performs the funeral obsequies, he succeeds as heir ; in those where the castes 



278 THE PROVINCE 

follow the common Hindoo law, the sons perform the necessary solemnities and 
succeed to the estate, except where some slight differences prevail respecting the 
elder brother’s portion. In one caste the estate is divided among the sons as in 
other parts of India; in another, among the sisters, or rather among the sister’s 
sons* The succession of the sister’s son has no particular effect upon, nor does 
it arise exclusively from the institution of private property in the soil ; but 
originates from the ancient privilege of the Brahmins to visit the females, for 
when this sacred body had established their hierarchy, they probably wanted 
soldiers and mistresses, and therefore instituted the Nair caste, the males acting 
in the first capacity, and the females in the second. The head peons, or foot sol j 
diers, probably became Rajas, and gradually acquired possession of the land; and 
the fathers of the children being uncertain, the succession followed the mother, \ 
about whom there could be no doubt. Such appears to have been the origin of \ 
this most preposterous custom, which, when established among the polite Nairs, ' 
became fashionable and was adopted by other castes, and even by the fanatic 
Moplays, who are followers of the Prophet. 

The region named Malabar, being intersected by many rivers and bounded by 
the sea and high mountains, presented so many obstacles to invaders, that it 
escaped subjugation by the Mahommedans until it was attacked by Hyder in 
1706 ; the original manners and customs of the Hindoos have consequently been 
preserved in greater purity than in most parts of India. The other inhabitants 
of this province are Moplays (or Mahommedans), Christians, and Jews ; but 
their number collectively is inferior to that of the Hindoos, some of whose most 
reiharkable manners, customs, and institutions shall be here described, reserving 
the more local details for the geographical sub-divisions respectively. The rank 
of caste on the Malabar coast is as follows : — 

1st. Namburies, or Brahmins. 

2d. The Nairs, of various denominations. 

3d. The Teers, or Tiars, who are cultivators of the land and freemen. 

4th. The Malears, who are musicians and conjurors, and also freemen. 

5th. The Poliars, who are slaves or bondmen, and attached to the soil. 

The system of distances to be observed by these castes is specified below : 

1st. A Nair may approach, but must not touch, a Brahmin. 

A Tiar must remain 36 yards off, 

A Poliar 96 steps off ^ 

2d. A Tiar is to remain 12 steps distant from a Nair, 

A Malear three or four steps further, 

A Poliar 96 steps. 

3d. A Malear may approach but not touch a Tiar. 



OF MALABAR. 


279 

4th. A Poliar is not to come near even to a Malear, or to any other caste. If 
he wishes to speak to a Brahmin, Nair, Tiar, or Malear, he must stand 
at the above prescribed distance and cry aloud to them. 

If a Poliar touch a Brahmin, the latter must make expiation by immediately 
bathing, reading much of the divine books, and changing his Brahminical thread. 
If a Poliar touch a Nair or any other caste, bathing is sufficient. In some parts 
of the province, churmun is a term applied to slaves in general, whatever their 
caste be, but it is in some other parts confined peculiarly to Poliars. Even 
among these wretched creatures the pride of caste has full influence, and if a 
Poliar be touched by another slave of the Pariar tribe, he is defiled and must 
wash his head and pray. The Parian, in the plural Pariar, belong to a tribe of 
Malabar below all caste, all of whom are slaves. In Malabar the Pariars ac- 
knowledge the superiority even of the Niadis, but pretend to be higher than two 
other races. This tribe eat carrion and even beef, so that they arc looked upon 
as equally impure with the Mahommedans and Christians. The Niadis are an 
out-caste tribe common in Malabar, but not numerous. They are reckoned so 
very impure, that even a slave of caste will not touch them. They have some 
miserable huts built under trees, but they generally wander about in companies 
of ten or twelve, keeping a little distance from the roads ; and when they see 
any passenger, they set up a howl like dogs that are hungry. Those who are 
moved by compassion lay down what they are inclined to bestow and go away; 
the Niadis afterwards approach and pick up what has been left. They Jiave no 
marriage ceremony, but one man and one woman always associate together. 
They kill tortoises and sometimes alligators, both of which they eat and consider 
excellent food. The Brahmins here are both fewer in number and less civilized 
than in the other provinces of India south of the Krishna. They subsist by 
agriculture, priestcraft, and other devices, but are not employed as revenue ser- 
vants, this being probably the only province of the south where the Brahmins 
do not keep the accounts. 

The next most remarkable caste are the Nairs, who are the pure Sudras of 
Malabar, and all pretend to be born soldiers, but they are of various ranks and 
professions. The highest in rank are the Kirit or Kirum Nairs, who on all pub- 
lic occasions act as cooks, which, among Hindoos, is a sure, mark of transcendent 
rank, for every person may eat food prepared by a person of higher rank than 
himself. The second rank of Nairs are more particularly named Sudras, but the 
whole acknowledge themselves and are allowed to be of pure Sudra origin. 
There are altogether eleven ranks of Nairs. This caste form the militia of Ma- 
labar, directed by the Brahmins, and governed by Rajas. Before the country 
was disturbed by foreign invasion, their submission to their superiors was great : 



280 


THE PROVINCE 


but they exacted deference with an arrogance rarely practised but by Hindoos 
in their state of dependance. A Nair was expected instantly to cut down a 
Tiar (cultivator), or Mucua (fisherman), who presumed to defile him by touching 
his person ; and a similar fate awaited a Poliar, or Pariar, who did not turn out 
of his road as a Nair passed. The peculiar deity of the Nair caste is Vishnu, 
but they wear in their forehead the mark of Siva. The proper road to heaven 
they describe as follows : — The votary must go to Benares, and afterwards 
perform the ceremony in commemoration of his deceased ancestors at Gaya. 
He must then take up water from the Ganges, and having journied over an im- 
mense space of country, pour it on the image of Siva, at Rameswara, in the 
straits of Ceylon. After this he must visit the principal places of pilgrimage, 
such as Juggernauth, in Orissa, and Tripetty, in the Carnatic. He must always 
speak the truth (to a native a hard penance), give much charity to poor an<^ 
learned Brahmins, and lastly, he must frequently fast and pray, and be very ' 
('haste in his conduct. 

The Nairs marry before they are ten years of age, but the husband never co- 
habits with his wife. He allows her oil, clothing, ornaments and food, but she 
remains in her mother s house, or after her parent’s death wjth her brothers, and 
cohabits with any person she chooses of an equal or higher rank than her own. 
In consequence of this strange arrangement, no Nair knows his own father, and 
every man considers his sisters children as his heirs. His mother manages the 
family, and after her death the eldest sister assumes the direction. A Nairs 
moveable property on his decease is equally divided among the sons and 
daughters of all his sisters. All Nairs pretend to be soldiers, but they do not all 
follow the martial profession. There are supposed to be 30 distinct classes of 
this general tribe, many of whom practise the arts of husbandry, accounts, weav- 
ing, carpenters work, pottery, and oil making. Formerly, however, they were 
all liable to be called upon by their sovereigns to perform military service. They 
are still very fond of parading up and down fully armed ; the consequence is, that 
assassination is frequent. Most of the Nairs and Malabar Hindoos are as re- 
markable for a thoughtless profusion, as in other parts they are notorious for a 
sordid economy. The Nairs generally are excessively addicted to intoxicating 
liquors, and are permitted to eat venison, goats, fowls, and fish. 

From the time of Cheruman Perraal until that of Hyder, Malabar was go- 
verned by the descendants of 13'INair chiefs sisters; among whom, and among 
the different branches of the same families, there subsisted a constant confusion 
and change of property, which was greatly increased by many inferior chiefs 
assuming sovereign power. The country thus became sub-divided in a manner 
of which there is no other example, and it was a common saying in Malabar, 



OF MALABAR. 


281 

that a man. could not take a step without going from one prince’s dominions to 
those of another. Hyder taking advantage of these dissensions subdued the 
northern division, now called the province of Malabar, while the Raja of Travan- 
core and the Cochin Raja subdued all the chiefs of the central and southern divi- 
sions. To an European the succession among the Malabar chiefs appears very 
extraordinary, and, as an instance, that of the Shekurry family may be described. 
The males of this family are called Achuns, and never marry ; the ladies are 
called Naitears, and live in the houses of their brothers, whose families they 
manage. They have no husbands but may grant their favours to any person of the 
military caste, who is not an Achun. All the male children of these princesses 
become Achuns, all the female Naitears, and all are of equal rank according to 
seniority ; but they are divided into two Houses, descended from two sisters of 
the first Shekurry Raja. The eldest male of the family is called Shekurry, or first 
Raja; the second is called the Elliah Raya (or heir apparent); the third, Cavashiiy 
Raja ; the fourth, Talan Tambouran Raja ; and the fifth, Tari Putamura Raja. On 
the death of the Shekurry, the Elliah Raja succeeds to the highest dignity, each 
inferior Raja gets a step, and the eldest Achun becomes Tari Putamura. In 
1801, there were between 1 and 200 Achuns, each of whom received a certain 
proportion of the fifth part of the revenue granted by the British government 
for their support. 

The Cunian, or Cunishun, are a caste of Malabar, whose profession is astro- 
logy J besides, they make umbrellas, and cultivate the earth. In many parts of 
India, the astrologer or wise man, whatever his caste may be, is called Cunishun. 
They are of so low a caste, that if u Cunian come within 24 feet of a Brahmin, 
the latter must purify himself by prayer and ablution. They are said to possess 
powerful mantras (charms) from fragments of the fourth Veda, which is usually 
alleged to be lost. The towns along the sea coast are chiefly inhabited by 
Moplays, who were originally imported frorfi Arabia, and probably have traded 
to the Red Sea since the time of Alexander the Great. They were early con- 
verted to the Mahommedan faith, and are fanatics ; yet they have retained or 
adopted many original Malabar customs, which seem at variance with the maxims 
of the Prophet. They are cunning traders, desperate robbers, serve as irregular 
infantry, possess land, and turn their hands to any thing. They hate the Hindoo 
idolaters, and are reciprocally detested. The Tiars and Mucuars are very indus- 
trious classes, the first on shore, and the latter afloat, as boat and fishermen ; 
there are no weavers oi manufacturers deserving of notice. 

There are six sorts of chemurs or slaves, like the Pariars of Madras, and no 
other caste is bought or sold in Malabar. They are said to have been caught 
and domesticated byParasu Rama for the use of the Brahmins, and are probably 

vo L. ix. o o 



282 THE PROVINCE 

the descendants of the aborigines, conquered by the Chola kings, and driven 
into the jungles, but at last compelled to prefer slavery and rice to freedom and 
starvation. They are generally, but not always, sold with the land, two slaves 
being reckoned equal to four buffaloes ; they are also let out and pledged. Their 
pay is an allowance of rice and cloth. They sometimes run away, but never 
shake off their servile condition; and if reclaimed, the children they may have 
had during their wandering are divided between the old master from whom they 
fled and the new one to whom they resorted. It is probable that by degrees, 
under the British government, this class will be converted to free labourers. 

In the district about Palighaut by far the greater pa*t of the labour is per- 
formed by slaves, who are the absolute property of their devarus or lords. They 
are not attached to the soil but may be sold or transferred in any manner a master 
thinks fit, except that a husband and wife cannot be sold separately, but children 
may be taken from their parents. These slaves are of different castes. They 
erect for themselves temporary huts, which are little better than large baskets. 
A young man and his wife will sell for £6 : 4s. to £7 : 8s. ; two or three children 
will add £2 : 10s. to the value of the family. These slaves are very severely 
treated, and their diminutive stature and squalid appearance shew evidently a 
want of adequate nourishment. There can be no comparison of their condition 
with that of the slaves in the West Indies, except that in Malabar there are a 
sufficient number of females, who are allowed to marry any person of the same 
caste with themselves. The personal labour of the wife is always exacted by 
the husband’s master, the master of the girl having no authority over her so 
long as she lives with another man’s slave. This is a practice that ought to be 
adopted by the West India planters. 

At a very early period the Christian religion made a considerable progress on 
the Malabar coast, which contains in proportion more persons professing that 
religion than any other country in India. In the creeds and doctrines of the 
genuine Malabar Christians considerable evidence exists of their being a primi- 
tive church. The supremacy of the Pope is denied, the doctrine of transub- 
stantiation has never been maintained by them, and they have always regarded* 
and still regard, the worship of images as idolatrous, and the existence of pur- 
gatory fabulous. In addition to these circumstances, they never acknowledged 
extreme unction, marriage, or confirmation to be sacraments, all of which facts 
may be substantiated by reference to the acts of the synod established at Diam- 
per by Don Alexis de Moneses, archbishop of Goa, in the year 1599. At present 
the hierarchal system of the Roman Catholic Church on the Malabar coast 
consists of three ecclesiastical chiefs ; two of whom are appointed by the Portu- 
goeze church at Goa, and one by the See of Rome* exclusive of the Babylonish 



OP MALABAR. 283 

bishops presiding over the Nestorian community. The greatest diocesan is the 
Bishop of Cochin, now residing at Coulan ; the second is the Archbishop of 
Cranganore; and the third, the Bishop of Verapoly. Besides these there is a 
Babylonish or Syrian metropolitan residing at Narnate in the province of Tra- 
vancore. Forty-four churches at present compose the Nestorian community, 
which contained about 200,000 souls, before the arrival of Vasco de Gama, and 
is now reduced to 40,000. The number of Christians on the whole Malabar 
coast, including the Syrians, or Nestorians/.is computed to amount to rather more 
than 200,000, of whom about 90,000 are settled in the Travancore country. The 
number of Jews is estimated to exceed 30,000. 

The first book printed on this coast was the Doctrina Christiana of Giovanni 
Gonsalvez, a lay brother of the order of the Jesuits, who cast Tamulic characters 
in the year 1577. After this, in 1598, there appeared a book entitled the Flos 
Sanctorum, which was followed by the Tamulic Dictionary of Father Antonia de 
Proenza, printed in the year 1679 at Ambalacate, on this coast. The Hindoos 
on the coast of Malabar reckon by the era of Parasu Rama, and divide it into 
cycles of 1000 years; the year A. D. 1800 being reckoned to correspond with 
the 976th of the cycle. The characters used in Malabar are nearly the same 
with those used among the Tamuls of the Carnatic for writing poetry, and the 
poetic language of both races is nearly the same. 

The villages of Malabar are the neatest in India, and much embellished by the 
beauty and elegant dress of the Brahmin girls. The houses are placed contiguous 
in a straight line, and are built of mud, so as generally to occupy two sides of a 
square area, that is a little raised, and kept clean and free from grass. The mud 
is of an excellent quality, and in general is neatly smoothed, and either white- 
washed or painted ; but the houses being thatched with palm leaves are ex- 
tremely combustible. Both bazars and villages have been introduced by foreigners; 
the Nambouries, Nairs, and all the aboriginal natives of Malabar, living in de- 
tached houses, surrounded by gardens, and collectively named desas. The 
higher ranks use very little clothing, but are remarkably cleanly in their persons, 
cutaneous distempers being never observed except among the slaves and the 
Very lowest castes. The native breed of cattle and buffaloes in this province are 
of a very diminutive form, and but little used for the transportation of goods, 
which are mostly carried by porters. No horses, asses, sheep, swine, or goats 
are bred in Malabar, at least the number is quit** inconsiderable, all these re- 
quired for the use of the inhabitants being imported from the eastward. The 
original natives had no poultry, but since the Europeans have settled among 
them, the common fowl may be had in abundance. Geese, ducks, and turkies 
are confined to the sea coast, where they are reared by the Portugueze. 

o o 2 



THE PRO VINCE 


284 

This country is intersected with better roads than perhaps any other province 
of India. One road extends along the sea coast from Cavai to Cochin ; another 
from Palighaut to Kotiary ; and a third, from the last mentioned place to Calicut. 
There are also many roads that cross the province from east to west, one from 
Palighaut to the sea, another from Calicut to Tambacherry, with various others 
in different directions, having trees, chiefly jack,* planted on each side, and on the 
rivers are good ferry-boats. These roads are more useful to the state as military 
highways than to the inhabitants for the carriage of goods, the inland navigation 
being so good as to render them almost superfluous, and improvements might 
still be made by new cuts and canals, especially the junction of the Baypoor and 
Calicut rivers. In 1800, the southern and middle divisions of Malabai were 
supposed to contain 3,300 square miles, with rather more than 100 inhabitants 
to the square mile ; and the total population was then estimated at 000,000 souls, 
which seems considerably under the mark. At that date the population of four 
districts, vir. Betutanada, Parupanada (on the sea coast), and Vellater and Shir- 
nada towards the Ghauts, was as follows, and may convey an idea of the 


relative composition of the whole. 

Houses inhabited by Mahommedans 12,581 

By Namburi Brahmins 297 

By Puttar Brahmins ..... 44 

By the families of Rajas 33 

By Nairs 6,747 

By Tiars 4,733 

By Mucuas (fishermen) . ... 608 

By people from the eastward .... 472 


Total 25,515 


Containing about 140,000 inhabitants. 

Number of male slaves 8,547 

Female ditto 7,654 — 16,201 

Total 156,201 

Malabar, when invaded by Hyder, was a country very rich in the precious 
metals, the inhabitants having been for ages accumulating the gold and silver 
that had been given to them for the produce of their gardens. After its conquest 
vast sums were extorted from the natives by military officers, and by the Cana- 
rese Brahmins placed over the revenue. In the northern parts of Malabar the 
most common currency is the silver fanam, equal in value to one fifth of the 
Bombay rupee. The total public revenue collected in the British district of 



OF MALABAR. 285 

Malabar, from the 12th July, 1816, to the 11th July, 1817, inclusive, was as 
follows : 

Land revenue 487,054 star pagodas. 

Salt 52,508 

Land customs 18,572 

Abkarry 18,592 

Sundry branches of revenue 14,81 1 

Stamps 5,805 

Tobacco monopoly 79,700 


Total 677,045 

Malabar was probably conquered at a very early era my some king from 
above the Ghauts, who established the priests and pagodas, and governed the 
province by a theocracy of Brahmins, which for their own convenience esta- 
blished the Nairs, in the same manner as the Velmah Dhorahs were introduced 
into the Northern Circars. In process of time the Nairs became Rajas, and 
continued to govern Malabar like independent princes, but still as deputies of 
the gods who occupied the pagodas, until Hyder’s invasion in 1760, prior to 
which event there is no proof that any land tax was levied in Malabar. The 
landed proprietors were certainly previously bound to render military service, 
and probably to contribute a per centage in case of invasion. The priests and 
pagodas had lands of their own, and besides lands the Rajas had sources of 
revenue from fines, royalties, imposts, personal taxes, and plunder. There was 
no standing army except the militia, nor any expensive establishments to support, 
so that there does not seem to have been any necessity for a land tax. In 
Hindostan it is only great states that either want, or have power to collect, a 
land tax. 

Hyder sent an army into Malabar, A. D. 1760, and came in person in 1761. 
He then subdued the country, and according to his custom drove out the Rajas, 
except those who conciliated his favour by immediate submission. During the 
war of 1768, the Rajas occasioned some disturbance; but in 1771, he re-ap- 
peared and established his authority. In 1782, Oushed Beg Khan was appointed 
his deputy, made considerable progress in settling and subduing the country, 
and matters went on tolerable smoothly until 1788, when Tippoo descended 
the Ghauts, and proposed to the Hindoos the adoption of what he was pleased 
to designate the true faith, and to convince them that he was serious, he levied 
contributions on the infidel seculars, while he forcibly circumcised the Brahmins, 
Nairs, and such other classes as he thought deserving of the Mahommedan pa- 
radise. This produced a stout rebellion, but he returned next year with so 



THE PROVINCE 


286 

overwhelming a force, and exercised his power so rigorously, that, in spite of 
the local superstition, he drove out the Rajas, confirmed his sway, and circum- 
cised all he could get hold of The power and authority which they had pos- 
sessed were transferred to the Moplays (Mahommedans), who consequently be- 
came the offi'cers and instruments of government. 

On the breaking out of the war between Tippoo and the British in 1790, the 
Rajas and Nairs were leading a predatory life in the jungles, or were refugees in 
Cochin and Travancore. They were encouraged to join the British army, but 
the war was terminated without their assistance. The Bombhy government im- 
mediately reinstated them in their possessions, and made a settlement with 
them for the revenues, but they failed to fulfil their engagements in three suc- 
cessive settlements, and their mode of government was found to be such as 
could not be tolerated or protected consistent with humanity. A scene of con- 
fusion and accumulation of balances ensued which lasted for many years. Com- 
missioners, superintendants, and collectors, followed each other in rapid suc- 
cession ; but tranquillity came not. The revenue was inadequate, yet could 
not be collected ; the government lenient, yet insurrections unceasing ; whije 
the Moplay rebellion to the southward, .and that of Cotiote to the northward, 
distracted the country, and precluded financial arrangements. This deplorable 
state of affairs was in a great degree to be attributed to the restoration of the 
expelled Rajas, and the subsequent influence of the British government only 
commenced when they were completely shut out from all interference. They 
were in consequence deprived of all authority, and allowed one-fifth of their 
country’s revenue to support their dignity, which is more than any sovereign of 
Europe can spare for that purpose. They were nevertheless dissatisfied, became 
refractory, and at last hoisted the standard of rebellion, thereby creating a con- 
fusion that could only be subdued by a military force. 

In this condition of affairs, the Bengal presidency ordered the transfer of the 
province to that of Madras, and it was committed to the charge of a military 
officer, having three subordinate collectors. Since the above period, "a great 
improvement has taken place in the internal affairs of the province, which would 
appear in a great degree attributable to the judicial local arrangements of Mr. 
Warden the collector, who was delegated to that important situation in 1803, 
and discharged the duties of it for eight years. The revenues have since been 
realized without difficulty, and a considerable proportion realized by indirect 
taxation, the land tax being light when compared with that exacted in the most 
of the other provinces of India. 

The whole foreign trade of this extensive province, both import and export, 
is with a few exceptions confined to Bombay, the Persian Gulf, and Gujerat. 



COORG.] OF MALABAR 287 

The imports consist of alum, assafcetida, cotton, piece goods, shawls, broad- 
cloth, nankin, rice, sugar, from Bengal and Bombay ; coir and coco nuts from 
Travancore. The exports are more numerous and extensive, consisting chiefly of 
coir, coco nuts, timber, rice, ghee, dry ginger, piece goods, cardamoms, pepper, 
sandal wood, sapan wood, turmeric, arrow root, betel nut, iron, &c. &c. The 
total value of imports from places beyond the territories of the Madras govern- 
ment, in 1811, was 721,040 Arcot rupees, and the total value of the exports to 
ditto, 2,236,7 i 8. — ( Thackeray , F. Buchanan, Parliamentary Reports, Wilks , Dow, 
Duncan, Lambton, $c. 8$c. 8$c.) 

Chandraohiri (the Mountain of the Moon). — A large square fort in the Ma- 
labar province, 30 miles south from Mangalore, situated on the south side of a 
river of the same name, which is the northern boundary of Malayala or Malabar. 
Lat. 12° 28' N. long. 75° 7' E. At low water the river is shallow, but very 
wide ; the country on its south side is called by the Hindoos Tulava. 

Beacvl (Vyacula). — A strong native fort, 37 miles S. by E. from Mangalore, 
placed, like Cananore, on a high point projecting into the sea towards the south, 
and having within it a bay. Lat. 12° 23' N. long. 75° 5' E. The town stands north 
from the fort, and contains about 100 houses. The inhabitants are chiefly Mo- 
plays and Mucuas, with a few Tiars (cultivators), and people of the Concan, who 
have long settled in Malabar as shopkeepers. — ( F. Buchanan, §c.) 

Hosso Durga. — A small town, 41 miles south by east from Mangalore. Lat. 
12° 10' N. long. 75° 10' E. This place is inhabited Jby a few Puttar Brahmins, 
who serve a temple, and whose ancestors were put there by the Ikeri Raja, who 
built the fort. 

Nelli seram (Niliswaram, an epithet of Siva). — A town in the Malabar pro- 
vince, 46 miles S. S. E. from Mangalore. Lat. 12° 16' N. long. 75° 12' E. 

Cavai. — A small Moplay town in the Malabar province, 30 miles N. N. W. 
from Tellechery. Lat. 30° 6' N. long. 75° 17' E. In 1749, the English had a 
factory here, which consisted of a pandiata or banksaul ; which Dutch word has 
now been adopted by the natives of the whole Malabar coast. 

Cookg (Coduga). — An ancient Hindoo principality, situated among the West- 
ern Ghauts, between the 12th and 13th degrees of north latitude, and at present 
partly annexed to the British province of Malabar, and partly comprehended in 
the Mysore Raja's territories. The Coorga country is considered to extend 
from the Tambacherry pass on the south to the river Hemavutty on the north, 
and presents a succession of hills and vallies, in many places open, with some 
scattered trees and shrubs ; in others wild and woody, abounding with all sorts 
of game, wild elephants, and other beasts of the forest. The country from So- 
xnawarpet to Markeree, a distance of 19 miles, is one complete wood, and the 



288 the PROVINCE [cooao, 

mountains in the vicinity of the latter place are covered with thick forests, where 
sandal and other valuable woods are found. Round Markeree the hills form an 
amphitheatre, where the different roads enter through gateways by an old line and 
ditch, extending all along the top of the ridges ; a Coorg Raja, before the coun- 
try was subdued by Hyder, having made a hedge and ditch along the whole ex- 
tent of the eastern boundary of his dominions. A considerable tract beyond it 
was reckoned neutral, and still continues desolate. The Cavery has its source 
in Coorg, and the Toombudra among the Bababooden hills. These two great 
rivers issuing to the eastward are obliged by the elevation of the mountains to 
pursue that direction, although much nearer to the western Indian Ocean. The 
Cavery, after a circuitous route, finds its way to the bay of Bengal, while the 
Toombudra proceeds to the north-east and joins the Krishna. In a military 
point of view, the Coorg is naturally strong, having many heights and ravines, 
and a great space of forest, besides having the Cavery and Hemavutty to cross. 

The vallies are cultivated with rice, which in this region yields exuberantly, 
but the quantity of land under tillage is, comparatively to the extent of surface, 
insignificant. Cattle are abundant, and on account of the excellence of the 
pasture in high condition. The manufactures of the Coorgas are very few. 
Their weapons are made in the country, and also the blankets which they wear; 
but most of the cotton cloths and salt are brought from Cananore and Telli- 
chery, the returns consisting principally of sandal wood and pepper. Honey is 
very plentiful. Among the hills and thick forests there are some wild hordes* 
whose complexions are much less deeply tinged than the generality of the na- 
tives. In the woods of the Coorg country there is one of these communities, 
called Malay Cudiru, who are not darker than Spaniards or Portugueze, which 
may possibly be owing to the elevation of their residence, the shade of their 
forests, and the torrents of rain which for so great a proportion of the year 
pour from their cloudy atmosphere. 

The Coorgas are a subdivision of the Nair caste and of martial habits. Rajas 
of Coorg (named the Vir Rajas) are mentioned by Ferishta as independent 
princes so early as A. D. 1583, and the family possesses biographical histories of 
their Rajas since 1632. For a long time Hyder attempted in vain to subdue 
them, until a dispute about succession arose, when he offered his interposition, 
and by the destruction of one family, and making the other prisoners, he got pos- 
session of the territory. In the year 1779, Linga, Raja of Coorg, died, and Hyder 
excluded Beer Rajindra, the lawful heir, then a minor, confined him in a Mysore 
fortress, massacred and expelled many of the Coorgas, and partitioned the coun- 
try into jaghires among a number of petty Mahommedan leaders* Tippoo 'tie d 
the young Raja circumcised, and during his captivity his country was a eon* 



coorg.] OF MALABAR. 289 

tinued scene of devastation and bloodshed, occasioned by the discontent and 
insurrection of the people. In 1787, Beer Rajindra made his escape from Peri- 
patam and returned to Coorg, where after a series of years and many vicisitudes 
he succeeded in expelling the invaders and recovering his hereditary dominions 
From this era the constitution of Coorg may be understood to have com- 
menced on a new foundation, the ancient having ]>een nearly abrogated by the 
long domination of the Mahommedans, atyd the expulsion of the legitimate landed 
proprietors. By his perseverance Beer Rajindra restored order and conciliated 
the affection of the great mass of his people. On his decease in 1808 he left his 
dominions by will to his daughter Dewa Amajee, then a child, to the prejudice 
of his brother Linga Raja, and contrary to the ancient usages and customs of 
the country as well as to the texts of the sacred writings. According to the 
latter, the succession should be, 1st, the son; 2dly, if no son, the son’s son; 
3dly, failing him, the brother of the deceased. In addition to this document, 
no precedent could be found that any female had ever held the reins of the 
Coorg sovereignty, although in the contiguous and ancient Hindoo principality 
of Bednore, a female sovereign, or ranny, had always ruled. 

The infant princess was however placed on the throne, but, in 1810, the Ben- 
gal government received a communication from Linga Raja and the Ranny 
Dewa Amajee conjointly, intimating, that in consequence of the voluntary ab- 
dication of the latter, Linga Raja had assumed the permanent administration of 
Coorg. In consequence of this intelligence measures were taken to ascertain 
the claim possessed by the Linga Raja to the succession, and also the wishes and 
sentiments of the chief persons belonging to the principality. The resignation 
qf the young Ranny at her tender age could not be con idered as spontaneous, 
and the Linga Raja s assumption of the sovereignty could derive no legality from 
the renunciation of an infant. At the same time, the British government could 
not be considered bound by a mere testamentary devise of the late Raja to 
support an order of succession hostile to the laws, prejudices, and wishes of the 
people, and under the possible contingency of being obliged to employ a military 
force in prosecution of the object. The result of the investigation was favour- 
able to the claims of the Linga Raja to Coorg, the inhabitants of which were 
also inclined to the establishment of his pretensions, which were accordingly 
acquiesced in by the Bengal presidency, and a dispatch addressed to him an- 
nouncing the determination of the British government to recognize his title to 
the sovereignty. A provision of nearly two lacks of pagodas (£80,000), which 
had been vested in the Company’s funds at Madras by the late Raja, was made 
in favour of Dewa Amajee and her sisters ; and of four lacks of rupees held by 
the late Raja in the Bombay funds, two were secured for the little Ranny and 
VOL. it VP 



290 THE PROVINCE [cananore. 

her sisters, as a suitable provision, by the care of the British government. The 
other two lacks in the Bombay funds; appertained to the Soonda Raja and his 
son. 

Like other Nair countries, this tract possesses few towns, or even villages, of 
considerable size or population, the Coorgas preferring the solitude of their jun- 
gles to the busy hum of men. Peripatam was formerly the capital, but in latep 
times the village of Mercara or Markaree, 25 miles south of Poodicherrin, has 
been the residence of the Raja’s family. About 1785, Tippoo built a strong for- 
tress within the limits of the district and named it Jafferabad, but it has long since 
gone to ruin. — (A. N. Cole, Public MS. Documents, Dirom, F. Buchanan, fyc. §c. 
&■) 

Mercara. — A town in the Coorg country, 50 miles N. N. E. from Tellichery. 
Lat. 12° 26' N. long. 75° 50' E. The fort of Mercara stands on a rising ground 
nearly in the centre of an ampitheatre of hills by which it is surrounded. Its 
form is that of an irregular pentagon with towers, bastions, and a small work to 
cover the gateway on the east side. There are also two other bastions, but nearly 
in ruins, and the whole is encompassed by a narrow ditch with a double covert- 
way. The Raja’s palace is within the fort, on one side of an open square, and 
the front apartment in which he receives European visitors is furnished in the 
English style, with mirrors, carpets, chairs, and pictures.— f Public Journals , §c.) 

Tulcavery. — A small village in the Coorg division, near the source of the 
Cavery, 55 miles S. E. from Mangalore. Lat. 12° 24' N. long. 75° 38' E. 

Mount Dilly. — A hill in the Malabar province, which is separated from the 
main land by salt water creeks, and forms a remarkable promontory on the coast. 
The native name is Yeshy Malay, but our seamen call it Mount Dilly. Lat. 12 
2' N. long. 75° 16' E. 26 miles S. E. from Tellichery. 

Cherical. — The name of a small subdivision of the Malabar province which 
formerly gave its name to an extensive tract of country, then subject to the 
Cherical Rajas. It is situated about the 12th degree of north latitude. 

Cananore ( Canura ). — A town on the sea coast of Malabar. Lat. 11° 52' N. 
long. 75° 27' E. Cananore was purchased from the Dutch by the ancestors of 
the Biby, or female sovereign, who is a Moplay (Mahommedan). Prior to this, 
the family were of little consequence, and entirely dependant on the Cherical 
Raja; but having acquired a fortress, considered by the Nairs impregnable, they 
became powerful and were looked up to as the head of the Mahommedans in 
Malabar. The succession goes on in the female l!ne, as is customary in Malabar. 
Under this system, the children of the Biby’s son will have no claim to the 
sovereignty, but will be succeeded by the son of his niece, who is the daughter 
of his sister. The territory of this female potentate on the continent is very 
small, yet she pays a revenue of 14,000 rupees as land-tax, and the British go- 



cotiote.] OF MALABAR. 291 

vemment receives all the customs of the port. The Biby is allowed to collect 
ail the revenue, but her profit from this source must be inconsiderable. Most'of 
the Laccadives are subject to her ; but they are wretched islands, producing no 
grain, nor any thing but coco nuts, betel nut, and plaintains. This lady pos- 
sesses several vessels that sail to Arabia, with which she carries on a consider- 
able trade, as also with Bengal and Sumatra. 

The town of Cananore is situated at the bottom of a small bay, which is one of 
the best on the coast, and contains several good houses belonging to Mahomme- 
dan merchants. The people here have no communication with the Maldives, al- 
though the sultan and inhabitants of these islands are Moplays also. Cananore 
is defended by a fortress, situated on the point which forms the bay, and it has 
been strengthened with walls after the European fashion since the province 
was ceded to the Company. The small district of Cananore extends nowhere 
more than two miles from the glacis of the fort. The surface is high and un- 
even, but not so much so as to prevent the whole from being cultivated once in 
three, six, or nine years, according to the quality of the soil. In 1800, the 
number of houses in Cananore and the district of Cherical was 10,386 ; and of 
slaves there were 4670. In Cherical and Cotiote there are slaves, chiefly of the 
Poliar and Pariar castes, but the greater part of the cultivation is carried on by 
Panicar or hired men. A trade is carried on from hence with Bengal, Arabia, 
Sumatra, and Surat ; from which quarters, horses, almonds, piece goods, sugar, 
opium, silk, benzoin, and camphor, are imported : the exports are principally 
pepper, cardamoms, sandal wood, coir, and shark fins. So early as 1505, the 
Portugueze had a fort at Cananore. F. Buchanan , Bruce , §c.) 

Cotiote. — A small section of the Malabar province situated due east of Tel- 
lichery, and comprehending about 312 square miles. The face of the country 
here resembles the other parts of Malabar, containing low hills, separated by 
narrow vallies, which are adapted for rice cultivation. Approaching the Ghauts 
these hills rise to a considerable height ; the soil is almost everywhere good, but 
as yet indifferently cultivated, owing to the long anarch} which prevailed. Its 
calamities were in a great measure owing to its forests, which encouraged the 
natives to make an ill-judged residence against the British forces. 

The quantity of timber trees procurable in one year, including teak, does not 
exceed 3 or 400 *, and no metals have been discovered in this territory. Where- 
ever the ground is not cultivated there are stately forests, but the produce of 
the trees is of little value. In 1800, the number of houses in Cotiote was esti- 
mated at 4087, Among the hills and forests there were several rude tribes, but 
the whole number of slaves then was only estimated at 100. The commerce of. 
this small district consists in selling the produce of the plantations, and in the 

* a 



292 THE PROVINCE [mah£ 

purchasing of rice, salt, salt fish, oil, cotton, and cloth. The produce is pepper, 
sugar cane, cotton, cassia, wild cinnamon and coffee. — ( F. Buchanan , 

Pyche. — A town in the Malabar province, 14 miles N. E. from Tcllichery. 
Lat. 11° 56' N. long. 75°39'E. 

Tellighery (Tali Chari). — A sea-port town on the Malabar coast, 126 miles 
travelling distance from Seringapatam. Lat. 11° 45' N. long. 75° 33' E. This 
place was long the chief settlement of the English on the coast of Malabar ; but 
in 1800, the East India Company’s commerce having been transferred to Mah£, 
it has since considerably declined. The richest natives still reside here, and the 
inhabitants are far more civilized than in other parts of the province. The 
grounds within the old English lines are highly cultivated, and the thriving state 
of the plantations on the sandy land shews that the whole is capable of im- 
provement. This town is the mart for the best sandal wood brought from above 
the Western; Ghauts and the cardamoms of Wynaad, which are mostly ex- 
ported from hence, are generally reckoned the best on the coast. 

In A. D. 1683, the Presidency of Surat established a factory here, for the pur- 
chase of pepper and cardamoms ; and in 1708, the East Indi;. Company obtained 
$ grant of the fort of Tellichery from the Colastry, or Cherical Raja. During 
the reign of Tippoo, in consequence of his hostile policy, this settlement was 
supported at a great expense, and partook so little of the commerce of the 
country that the Bombay government had it in contemplation to recommend its 
being relinquished as an unnecessary and unprofitable factory. In the year A. D. 
1800, Tellichery, Mah6, and Darmapatam formed a circle, containing 4481 
houses, occupied as follows : by Portugueze, 438 ; by Mahommedans, 868 ; 
by Namburies (Brahmins), 9; Puttar Brahmins, 16; Rajas, 2; Nairs, 276; 
Tiars, or cultivators, 1888; Mucuas (fishermen), 258 ; natives of Carnata, 119; 
male and female slaves, 70.— (F. Buchanan , Dirom, Duncan, fyc.) 

Make ( Mahi , a fish)'.-*-' The principal French settlement on the coast of Ma- 
labar. Lat. 11° 42' N. long. 75° 36' E. This place is finely situated on a high 
ground, on the south side of a river, where it joins the sea ; the site being in 
every respect preferable to that of the neighbouring British settlement of Telli- 
chery. It may be here remarked, that generally all the spots selected by the 
French for the establishment of their factories in India were, in point of local 
circumstances and geographical situation, much superior to those chosen by the 
English. The latter appear to have been influenced by the temporary resort of 
commerce, while the first were guided by more enlarged views, which to them, 
however, never had any beneficial result. The river at Mah6 is navigable for 
boats a considerable way inland, and in fair weather small craft can with great 
safety pass the bar. The town has been neat, and many of the houses are good ; 



wynaad.] OF MALABAR. 293 

but the whole was in a decaying state until the British commercial residency 
was removed to this port from Tellichery. The principal export is pepper, the 
staple commodity of the province. Mah6 was settled by the French in 1722, 
but taken from them by the British forces under Major Hector Munro in 1761. 
It was restored at the peace of Paris in 17C3, but on the rupture with France 
in 1793 recaptured, and finally restored along with Pondicherry at the peace of 
1815. — (F. Buchanan , Ormc,8^c.) 

Cartinaad (Cadutinada). — A small district in the Malabar province, the 
raja of which resides at Cutiporam. It is tolerably well cultivated, and is natu- 
rally a rich country, but does not produce grain sufficient for the sustenance of 
the inhabitants. The higher parts of the hills are overgrown with wood, which 
the Nairs formerly encouraged, as affording them protection against invaders. 
Among the hills which form the lower parts of the Ghauts in Cartinaad, and 
other northern districts of Malayavar, arc certain places that naturally produce 
cardamoms. 

The female Nairs in this part of the country, while children, go through the 
ceremony of marriage both with Namburies and Nairs ; but here as well as in 
the south the man and wife never cohabit. A Nair here is not astonished when 
asked who his father is ? And a man has as much certainty that the children born 
in his own house are his own, as a European husband has ; yet such is the per- 
versity of custom, that he would be considered as unnatural, were he to have as 
much affection for his own children as for those of his sister, which he may 
perhaps never have seen. In 1761, the Bombay presidency concluded a treaty 
with the chief of this country for the purchase of pepper, in which document 
he is styled the king of Cartenaddu. — ( F. Buchanan , Treaties , fyc.) 

Cotaport. — An inland town in the Cartinaad division, 14 miles S. E. from 
Tellichery. Lat. 11° 42' N. long. 75° 44' E. 

Vadaguf.rry ( or Vaducuray). — A Moplay town on the sea coast of the Ma- 
labar province, 24 miles N. by W. from Calicut. Lat. 1 1° 35' N. long. 75° 40' E. 

Wynaad (Bynadu). — A small subdivision of the modern district of Malabar, 
situated above the Western Ghauts, between the 11th and 12th degrees of north 
latitude, and comprehending an area of about 1250 square miles. Bynadu, or 
Wynaad, signifies the open country, but does not seem here applicable, as, though 
situated on the tops of the mountains, it is in many places overrun with forest 
and of difficult access. This territory is also named Nellcala and Wynatil, and 
produces the best cardamoms in India. Carula Verma, the present raja, is 
sprung from a younger branch of the family, and retains considerable power 
within his own limits. The village of Panamburt Cotta, or Wynaad, is situated 
in lat. 11° 47' N. long. 76° 10' E. 40 miles E. from Tellichery. 



294 THE PROVINCE [calicut. 

Numhulecote. — A small town in the Malabar province, 52 miles E. Nr E. 
from Calicut. Lat. 1 1° 32' N. long. 76° 35' E. 

Tamberacherry. — A small inland town in the Malabar province, 20 miles 
N. E. from Calicut. Lat. 11° 26' N. long. 76° E. From the woods around this 
place, from 2 to 300 teak trees may be procured annually, and an equal number 
of the viti, or black wood. 

Nellemboor. — An inland town in the Malabar province, 33 miles E. from 
Calicut. Lat. 11° 17' N. long. 76° 20' E. 

Calicut ( Calicodu ). — A subdivision of the Malabar province, extending 
along the sea coast between the parallels of 10 and 12° north latitude, and one 
of the principal countries of that extraordinary Hindoo race, the Nairs; the 
Calicut Raja (the Zamorin of Europeans) being one of their most respected 
chiefs. By his own tribe, and the other natives, he is styled the Tiwijiri Raja. 

All the males of the family of the Zamorin are called Tamburans, and the 
females Tamburetties. All the children of every Tamburetti are entitled to 
these appellations, and according to seniority rise to the highest dignities that 
belong to the family. These ladies are generally impregnated by Namburies 
(Brahmins), and sometimes by the higher ranks of Nairs; but the sacred cha- 
racter of the Namburies always procures them a preference. The ladies live in 
the houses of their brothers, and never have any intercourse with their hus- 
bands, which would be reckoned scandalous. 

The oldest man of the family by the female line is the Tamuri Raja, or Za- 
morin, who is also named Mana* Vicrama Samudri Raja, and is regularly 
crowned. This chief pretends to be of higher rank than the Brahmins, and to 
be only inferior to the invisible gods, which pretensions are acknowledged by 
his subjects, but held absurd and abominable by the Brahmins, who treat him 
as a Sudra. The Zamorin, although of a caste inferior to the Cochin Raja, and 
possessed of less extensive dominions, was commonly reckoned of equal rank,, 
which is attributed to the superior prowess of his people. In 1767, when Hy- 
der invaded Malabar, the Cochin Raja quietly submitted to pay tribute, while the 
pride of the Zamorin refused any kind of submission, and after an unavailing re- 
sistance, being made prisoner, set fire to the house in which he was confined, and 
was burned with it. Several of his personal attendants, who were accidentally 
excluded when he shut the door, afterwards threw themselves into the flames 
and perished with their master. 

It appears from the records of Jellichery, that the English first began to traffic 
in the Zamorin’s dominions in the year 1664, Hyder invaded the country in 
person in the year 1766, but was soon afterwards called away by a war in the 
dominions of the Nabob of Arcot. The Zamorins embraced this opportunity, 



perpenaad.] OF MALABAR. 295 

and having repossessed themselves, held their lands seven years. A Brahmin, 
named Chinavas Row, was then sent, against them, and drove them into the do- 
minions of the Raja of Travancore. After nine years of his administration, the 
British came and took Palighaut, but on the approach of Tippoo were obliged to 
retreat by Paniany. The Rajas continued in exile until 1790, when a little before 
the battle of Tiruvana Angady they joined Colonel Hartley with 5000Nairs. At 
the peace with Tippoo, in 1792, this district, consisting of 63 talooks and a re- 
venue estimated at eight and a half lacks of rupees, was ceded in perpetuity to 
the Company. Formerly the chiefs of Punatoor, Talapuli, Mannacollatil, Tiru- 
manachery, Agenicutil, and many others, were tributary to the Zamorin, and 
furnished on emergencies quotas of troops ; but he has now no authority what- 
ever, and is subsisted by the bounty of the British government. — ( F. Buchanan , 
Wilks, Duncan , §c.) 

Calicut. — The capital of the Malabar province, is situated in lat. IP 15' N. 
long. 75° 50' E. 103 miles S. W7 from Seringapatam. The Portugueze under 
Vasco de Gama arrived at Calicut on the 18th of May, 1498j;, ten months and 
two days after their departure from Lisbon. In 1509, Don Fernando Coutinho, 
Marechal of Portugal, attacked Calicut with 3000 troops, but was slain in the 
attack and his army repulsed with great loss. In 1766, it was invaded and con- 
quered by Hyder, who enlarged and improved the fort ; but Tippoo afterwards 
destroyed both fort and town, and removed the inhabitants to Nellura, the name 
of which he changed to Furruckabad, being, like all the Mahommedans of 
India, a great alterer of the old Pagan names. Fifteen months after this forced 
migration, the English conquered the province, and the inhabitants returned with 
great joy to their old place of residence. The town in 1800, contained above 
5000 houses, and was rapidly improving. The inhabitants are chiefly Moplays. 
The principal exports are pepper, teak, sandal wood, cardamoms, coir cordage, 
and wax. Travelling distance from Seringapatam, 129 miles south west. — (F. 
Buchanan , Wilks , Bruce, Rennell, §c. 8$c.) 

Baypoor ( Vaypura ).—A sea-port town on the Malabar coast, seven miles south 
from Calicut. Lat. 11° 10' N. long. 75° 52' E. Tippop new named this place 
Sultanpatnam, and intended to have established it as one of his places of trad ( e. 
Teak ships of 400 tons are built from timber procured in the neighbourhood ; 
and from the chips and saw dust teak tar is extracted. Some mills were erected 
here on speculation, with the view of supplying the dock-yards at Bombay 
with planks, but the moving power being wind it appears too precarious for 
the heavy machinery required. 

Perpenaad ( Parapanada ). — A Moplay town on the sea coast of Malabar, 
15 miles south from Calicut. Lat. 1 1° 3' N. long. 75° 54' E. In 1800, this place 



296 THE PROVINCE [faniany. 

contained 700 houses, mostly built of stone and well aired, and which would be 
comfortable even for Europeans. When compared with that at Madras, the 
surf on this coast is trifling, and, except where rocky head 'lands run a little 
way intp the sea, boats of any kind may without danger land on the beach. 

Tanore. — A town on the sea coast of the Malabar province, 23 miles S. by 
E. from Calicut. Lat. 10° 58' N. long. 75° 5 6' E. This was formerly a place of 
considerable note, but is now reduced to the condition of an obscure village. 

Tirwan Angary (Teravana Angadij ). — A small Moplay town in the Malabar 
province, 19 miles S. S.E, from Calicut. Lat. 1 1° 3' N. long. 75° 59' E. This 
place is situated on the banks of a river which comes from Irnada, and in the 
rainy season is navigable 32 miles above for canoes. Near to this place, in 1790, 
a decisive victory was gained by Colonel Hartley's army over Tippoos forces. 

Ada nad (Adi nat ha ). — A town in the province of Malabar, division of Sher- 
nada, celebrated as the throne of the Alvangheri Tambuiacul, or chief of the 
Namburies, who are the Brahmins of Malabar. These Namburies will neither 
eat nor drink with the Brahmins of other countries ; but, like other Brahmins, 
they marry and live with their wives, of whom they take as many as they are 
able to support. A Namburie’s children are always considered as his heirs ; but 
in order to prevent their losing dignity by becoming too numerous, the younger 
sons of a Namburi family seldom marry. They live with their eldest brother, 
and assist the wives of the Rajas and other Nairs of distinction to keep up their 
families. Many Namburies have lost caste by having committed murder, or by 
having eaten of forbidden things ; in such cases their children generally become 
Mahommedans. — ( F. Buchanan , §c.) 

Kotye. — A small town on the Malabar coast, 30 miles S. by E. from Calicut. 
Lat. 10° 50' N. long. 75° 57' E. 

Pari any. — A sea-port town on the coast of Malabar, 36 miles S. byE. from 
Calicut. Lat. 10° 45' N. long. 75° 38' E. This place is called by the natives 
Punang Wacul, and in I860 contained above 500 houses belonging to traders, 
40 mosques, and at least lobo huts, inhabited by the lower orders of people. 
It is vei;y irregularly built, but many of the houses are two stories high, con- 
structed of stone, and thatched with coco-nut tree leaves. The huts are inha- 
bited by boatmen and fishermen, who were formerly Mucuas, a low caste of 
Hindoos, but they have now all embraced the faith of Mahommed. The town 
is scattered over a sandy plain on the south side of a river, which descends from 
Animalaya and enters the sep. by a very narrow channel. The mouth, however, 
i% shut by a bar, which only admits boats to enter. The trading boats are called 
pattemars, and on an average carry 50,000 coco nuts, or 1000 muddies of rice, 
equal to 500 Bengal bags. About 60 years ago the Moplays of this port were 



OF MALABAR. 


IfUNAAR.] 


297 


very rich, and possessed vessels that sailed to Surat, Mocha, Madras, and Ben- 
gal* but the oppressions and extortions of Tippoo reduced them to great poverty. 
The exports from hence are teak wood, coco nuts, iron, and rice ; the chief im- 
ports, wheat, pulses, sugar, jagory, salt, cut (terra japonica), and spices. 

Paniaily is the residence of the Tangul, or chief priest of the Moplays, who 
asserts his descent from Ali and Fatima, the daughter of Mahommed. Although 
a MuBsulmaunby religion, the Tanguls sister's son, according to the custom of 
Malabar, is considered the heir to this hereditary dignity. These people are 
called Moplayar on the Malabar coast, and Lubbaymar at Madras ; but among 
themselves they acknowledge no other designation than that of Mussulmauns or 
Mahommedans. Being of Arabic extraction, they consider themselves of more 
honourable birth than the Tartar Mahommedans, who, on this subject, hold a 
contrary opinion. The Arabians settled in this part of India soon after the 
promulgation of the faith of Mahommed, and have made numerous converts ; 
yet in many families of distinction the Arab blood seems still uncontaminated. 
The Moplays use a written character peculiar to themselves, and totally different 
from the present Arabic, which language is known to very few besides the 
priests. The Moplays of Malabar are both traders and farmers ; the Lubbay- 
maxs of Madras confine themselves to the first mentioned profession. As traders 
they are a remarkably quiet industrious people ; but some of them in the interior 
having been encouraged by Tippoo in a most licentious attack on the lives, per- 
sons, and properties of the Hindoos, became a set of fierce, blood-thirsty, 
bigotted ruffians, which disposition the British government had considerable 
difficulty in reforming* Prior to this, the Moplays had no authority except in 
the small district of Cananore, .even over their own sect, but were entirely sub- 
ject to the Hindoo chiefs in whose dominions they resided. Tippoo’s code of 
laws was never known beyond the limits of Calicut. During that period of total 
anarchy the number of Moplays considerably increased, multitudes of Hindoos 
were circumcised by force, and many of the lower orders converted. In reli- 
gious matters the Tangul is still the head of the sect, and the office is hereditary 
inr the female line. Mosques are numerous, and in each of them presides an 
imaum or moullah, nominated by the Tangul, who usually bestows the office on 
the sister's son, the heir of the person who last held it. — ( F. Buchanan , 8$c<) 

Oolangodu. — A small town in the south-eastern division of the Malabar 
province. L&t. 10° 42' N. long. 76° 49' E. This town contains above 1000 
houses, many of which are inhabited by Tamul weavers, who import their cotton 
front Coombatoor. 

Munaar.— A town in the Malabar province, 52 miles S. E. from Calicut 
Lat KPftS'N. long. 76° ZS E. 
vo i*. ii. a a 



298 THE PROVINCE [laccadives. 

Palighaut.*— A town and district attached to the modem province of Mala* 
bar, 68 miles S. E. from Calicut. Lat. 10° 45' N. long. 76° 38* E. The fort here 
was built by Hyder on his conquest of Malabar, in the country called Palighaut 
Cherry, which then belonged to the Shekury Raja, one of the petty chiefs of 
Malabar. Round the fort are scattered many desas (estates), villages, and 
bazars, altogether containing a considerable population, but ‘there is very little 
of the appearance of a town. This small district, in 1800, contained 106,500 free 
inhabitants, and 16,574 slaves ; total 123,074 persons. 

The proportion of this territorial subdivision occupied by thick forests, and not 
inhabited, is very considerable. These forests possess a great advantage in being 
intersected by several branches of the Paniany river, by which, during the rainy 
season, the timber may be floated to the sea. About 45,000 cubic feet of teak 
may be procured annually, but it can only be done with the* assistance of a large 
body of trained elephants. The Palighaut district was ceded to the British go- 
vernment by Tippoo at the peace of 1792, when its revenues were valued at 
88,000 pagodas. — ( F. Buchanan , 8$c.) 

Erroor. — A small town on the sea coast of the Malabar province, 50 miles 
S. by E. from Calicut. Lat. 10° 36' N. long. 76° 4' E. 

Chitway (Setava). — A town in the Malabar province, situated on the sea 
coast, 39 miles N. by W. from Cochin. Lat. 10° 3T N. long. 76° 5' E. This place 
stands on an island 27 miles long, and in some places five broad, named Chitway 
by Europeans, and by the natives Manapuram. It consists of two sections, 
Shetuwai and Allypuram, and is separated from the continent by inlets of salt 
water, which form the northern part of an excellent inland navigation. The 
soil of this island is in general poor, and although the whole may be considered 
as a plain, the rice fields are small in proportion to the elevated land that rises a 
few feet above the level of the sea. The shores of the island are covered with 
coco-nut palms, from which the revenue is chiefly derived, and the whole is rented 
from the Company by the Cochin Raja for 30,000 rupees per annum, but he pos- 
sesses no legal jurisdiction over the inhabitants. A slave here, when 30 years 
old, costs about 100 fanams, or £2 : 14 : 7 ; with a wife the price is double. Chil- 
drensell for from 15 to 46 fanams, or from 8 $. 2 Id. to 21$. 10</. — ( F. Buchanan, fyc.) 

Laccadives Isles (Laksha Dwipa, a lack (100,000) islets ). — An archipelago of 
low shoaly islands, lying off the coast of Malabar, which is about 75 miles dis- 
tant from the nearest, and extending from the 10th to the 12th degree of north 
latitude, being separated from each other by very wide channels. These islands 
are very small* the largest not containing six square miles of land, and surrounded 
by coral shoals, which render the approach to them dangerous. They are all 
very barren and do not produce any grain, nor indeed any thing but coco nuts, 



Maldives.] OF MALABAR. 299 

betel nuts, and plantains- The inhabitants are Moplays (Mahommedans), 
are very poor, and subsist mostly on coco nuts and fish. Their staple articles of 
exportation are coir, which they make from the husk of the coco nut, jaggery, 
coco nuts, and a little betel nut. Some coral is also carried from the surround- 
ing reefs to the continent of India, where it is used for making images and for 
burning into quick lime. The best coir cables on the coast of Malabar are made 
at Anjengo and Cochin from the fibres of the Laccadive coco nuts ; with the 
stem the natives of the islands make their boats, and their houses are constructed 
from the materials furnished by that valuable palm. 

These islands were discovered by Vasco de Gama during his first voyage, 
when returning to Europe, and it does not appear that they have ever been pro- 
perly explored. Prior to the cession of the Cherical country in 1792 to the 
British government, Tippoo Sultan had received the three northernmost of the 
islands in question from the Bibby (lady) of Cananore, for an equivalent in that 
territory, which equivalent, in 1793, the Cherical Raja was permitted to resume; 
the Bibby was consequently deprived of the consideration for which she had 
ceded the islands to the Sultan. These islands being attached to Canara came 
along with that province under the dominion of the British ; but as they had con- 
stituted a part of the Mysore possessions at the close of the war in which Tippoo 
fell, and the Bibby had not previously the slightest prospect of recovering them, 
her claim, in 1803, to the three northernmost, not being ruled by the law of na- 
tions, stood in need of indulgent consideration. The result was, that her claims 
were declared inadmissible, on the ground that she could have no just right to 
be placed in any other situation by the conquest of Mysore, than that in which 
she would have stood had no such event taken place ; in addition to which, it 
was not thought expedient to vest the Bibby with authority over the Laccadives, 
under the declared aversion of the islanders to her government — (F. Buchanan, 
Public MS* Documents, 8$c.) 

Maldives Islands ( Malaya Dwipa, the isles of Malaya )* — These islands ex- 
tend from the eighth degree of north latitude to the equinoctial line, and are 
divided into 17 clusters, called Attollons. These groups are most of them round, 
but some are oval, and lie in a row in a N. W. and S. E. direction, separated 
from each other by narrow channels not navigable by ships of burthen. Each 
of these clusters is surrounded by rocks that defend them from the sea, which 
here rages with great fury. The large islands are inhabited and cultivated, but 
a great proportion of the chain consists of mere rocks, rocky shoals, and sand 
bank?, flooded at spring tides. They have never been completely explored, 
although so near to the course of ships outward bound to Bengal, but their 
dimensions are known to be very small, and their number very great* Aconsider- 

qq2 



300 the PROVINCE [icauuve* 

able trade is carried on between the different Attollons, each of them having 
something peculiar to itself; the weavers residing in one, die goldsmiths in 
another ; the locksmiths, matmakers, potters, turners, joiners, each inhabiting 
distinct groups of islands. The different traders go from island to island in 
boats with a small deck, and sometimes are absent a year from their own island* 
On these occasions they generally live in their boats, and carry their male 
children of four or five years of age with them, to accustom them to a sea life. 

Some years back one or two vessels used annually to visit the Maldives from 
the British settlements to load cowries, but from the delay they experienced, 
and the unhealthiness of the climate, this trade has been for some time aban- 
doned by Europeans. It is now principally carried on by the Maldivians in their 
own boats, constructed of the trunks of coco-nut trees. These arrive at Balasore 
in Orissa, situated at the mouth of the Calcutta river, in the months of June and 
July (when the S. W. monsoon is steady in the bay of Bengal), loaded with coir 
(coco-nut fibres), copo-nutoil, and all the other produce of the coco-nut tr re, their 
grand staple ; cowries, salted fish, turtle shell, &c. &c. They sail about the 
middle of December, during the north-east monsoon, with their returns, more 
than half of which consists of rice from Bengal, the granary of the Indies; the 
rest is sugar, hardware, broadcloth, cutlery, silk stuffs, coarse cottons, tobacco, 
&c. The imports to Bengal, in 1810, averaged about 184,129 sicca rupees, and 
the exports 90,182 sicca rupees. Many Maldivian boats come Annually to 
Acheen, and bring dried bonettoe in small pieces, about two or three ounces in 
weight, which when properly cured is as hard in the centre as a horn. Ships 
occasionally resort to the Maldives to procure dried shark-fins for the Chinese 
market* being esteemed by that gross feeding nation an excellent seasoning for 
soup, and highly invigorating. 

The Maldivians profess the Mahommedan religion, yet in some of their cus- 
toms resemble the Boadjoos of Borneo. ’ They launch annually a small vessel 
loaded with perfumes, gums, and odoriferous flowers, and turn it adrift to the 
mercy of the winds and waves, as an offering to the spirit of the winds ; and 
sometimes similar offerings are made to the spirit whom they term king of the 
sea. With their internal government we are little acquainted, but it does not 
appear, that, although separated into distinct islands and groups of islands* 
they engage in war with each other, which is unaccountable. By such Europeans 
as have visited them they are described as a mild inoffensive face and very 
hospitable. In 1777, a French vessel with some ladies of rank was wrecked on 
the island of Imetay, when all the sufferers met with the kindest treatment from 
the chief and his subjects. The French East India Company had formerly I 
corporal and some soldiers resident on these islands* but they were removed 



Maldives.} OF MALABAR. 301 

by M. Lally in 1759. When Hyder invaded Malabar in 1766, he contemplated 
the conquest of these islands also, but never carried his intention into execution. 

In 1812, Lord Minto, then Governor-General, received a letter from Sultan 
Moiea ud Deen, the sovereign of the Maldives, representing that during the 
month of May, a ship under British colours, named the Europa, had been cast 
away on the uninhabited island of Andue, one of the southern Attallons, when 
the crew and passengers, 43 in number, were saved by the Maldivians and con- 
ducted to the inhabited island of Ounadue, from whence they were forwarded 
to Maidive, the residence of the king and seat of the government. Although 
treated with the utmost hospitality, and furnished daily with fowls, dried and fresh 
fish, coco nuts, fruits, \ and rice, the captain (a Brazilian Portugueze) and crew 
behaved in the most Outrageous and brutal manner, spurned at the royal autho- 
rity, and, as his majesty most bitterly complains, set their dog (who, from repeated 
mention in the manifesto, appears to have been of considerable importance) at 
his subjects, and encouraged him to bite them. In addition to these atrocities, 
they shot the fowls, stole the fruits and coco nuts, while the chief mate went at 
midnight to the palace, and the captain wanted to enter it. As might have been 
expected, dissensions soon arose among this dissolute banditti, until at length 
the crew (as the king states in his expos6) first broke the captain’s head, and 
afterwards the head of his chief officer. In spite of these repeated provocations, 
they were to the last treated with kindness and forbearance by the king and 
latives, and when the monsoon became favourable dispatched in safety to Bengal 
*nd Ceylon. Lord Minto, considering how injurious to the British name and 
character such disgraceful proceedings, carried on under the sanction of the 
British flag, would be, had the captain sought after and punished, and addressed 
a letter to the sultan, expressing his admiration of his generous and hospitable 
conduct, and concern and indignation at the ungrateful return. Some presents 
to the king accompanied the dispatch, and articles to reimburse sueh of the 
natives as had suffered by the misconduct of the Europa’s crew. 

The king’s residence on the island of Maidive, in 1812, is described as aregularly 
fortified place, with cannon mounted and colours flying, and certainly the whole 
transaction suggests a very favourable idea both of the moral feelings of the 
Maldivians, and of the stage of civilization they have attained on their surge 
lashed rocks. On this occasion, it was for the first time discovered, that the 
sovereign of the Maldives had long been accustomed annually to send an em*- 
bassy to Ceylon, which has been continued since the acquisition of that island 
by the British government. — (4th Register,, Public MS. Documents. Elmore. For- 
mf, Sonmrat, §e. %c.) 



COCHIN. 


(cach’hi, a morass.) 


A shall principality on the Malabar coast, intersected by the 10th degree of 
north latitude, having -the Malabar province on the north, Travancore on the 
south, the Dindigal district on the east, and the sea on the west. A portion of 
this territory equal to about 745 square miles is attached to the district of Ma- 
labar, and subject to the British laws and regulations ; but the remainder is under 
the independent jurisdiction of the Raja. The whole area probably exceeds 2,500 
square miles. 

In the northern parts of this country about Pargunuru and Shilacary, the rice 
grounds are narrow vallies, but extremely well watered by small perennial 
streams, which enable the cultivators to raise two crops of rice annually. The 
houses of the natives are buried in groves of palms, mangoes, jacks, and plan- 
tains, that skirt the bottom of the little hills. Above them are woods of forest 
trees, which although not so stately as those of Chittagong are very fine, and 
free from rattans and other climbers. The teak and viti, a black wood, abound 
in these forests ; but most of the large trees have been cut, and no care is used 
to encourage their reproduction, or to check the growth of useless timber. To- 
wards Cacadu the hills are much lower and covered with grass instead of trees. 
Scarcely any part of these hills is cultivated, although the soil appears good 
and the pasture excellent. 

In the forests of Cochin nearly the same sort of trees grow as in those of Ma- 
labar. The jackwood in general demand for cabinet ware is small, and is mostly 
used here for boxes and house building. The erambo, or iron-wood, is too heavy 
for general use, and is seldom felled. The blackwood is large and of fine dimen- 
sions, but rendered unmarketable by the practice of dividing it into short logs 
for the convenience of having them more easily dragged to water carriage by 
elephants, during which process they are much bruised and splintered, so that 
purchasers prefer looking for this sort of plank at Calicut. The Poon of Cochin 
is small, and inferior to that of the British districts in Malabar. The Cochin 
teak is also inferior in the essential oil, which is the grand preservative of iron 



COCHIN. 


305 

from corrosion, and the difference between the two sorts of teak may easily be 
perceived by burning a piece of each kind. There are extensive forests of teak 
in the division of Chittoor belonging to the Cochin Raja ; but as the river tra- 
versing Chittoor foils into the Paniany, it must be floated through the British 
territories to the sea-port town of Paniany in South Malabar. The free transit 
and sale of this timber are certainly of great importance to the Raja’s interests ; 
nor could they produce such injury to the Company’s monopoly of the Malabar 
teak as to justify the extreme and unfriendly measure of refusing them a passage, 
which was at one time, in 1 8 1 3, contemplated by the Bombay Presidency, in con- 
sequence of a proposition made by the Marine Board there for engrossing all the 
timber grown in Cochin and Travancore. The chiefs of these countries, in their 
present state of dependence, are naturally anxious to conciliate the good will of 
the British government, and to contribute as for as their resources permit to the 
success of its general interests ; but it does not appear consistent with the prin- 
ciples of an amicable alliance or sound policy to exact greater sacrifices than are 
required by subsisting treaties. The above mentioned proposition seems a 
measure of this description, and if it had been carried into execution would 
have occasioned a serious defalcation in the revenue of these states ; permission, 
however, to float the Chittoor timber to the sea was not conceded without infi- 
nite discussion, and was only gained at last by the persevering exertions of Major 
John Munro, the resident at Cochin. Prior to the above period the Bombay presi- 
dency had uniformly excluded the Cochin and Travancore teak from the dock- 
yards of that port, in consequence of which regulation no teak timber had been 
sent from these states for sale to Bombay, the quality being considered as de- 
cidedly inferior to that of the Company’s forests. This prohibitibn had the effect 
of compelling the Travancore and Cochin Rajas to seek a market in Bengal, 
where the demand continues unabated. . . 

In the Cochin province are many Nazarene or Christian villages, inhabited by 
Christians of St. Thomas, which are in general well built and cleanly. Jews 
are numerous in the vicinity of Cochin, but their principal place of residence is 
at Matachery, about a mile distant from the town, which is almost wholly te- 
nanted by Jews. The resident Jews (for the others are from all. parts of Asia) 
are divided into two classes, the Jerusalem or White Jews, and tile Ancient or 
Blade Jews. The latter have a synagogue in the town of Cochin; but the great 
body of this tribe inhabit the interior of the country, where it is difficult to 
distinguish the Black Jew from the Hindoo, their appearance is so’similar. Their 
chief towns are Trittoor, Paroor, Chenotta, and Maleh, and by the White Jews 
they are considered an inferior race. By their neighbours, the inhabitants of 



304 COCHIN. 

Cochin and Travancore are supposed to be great proficients in magic, and to 
possess the power of destroying their enemies 

The Cochin Raja maintained his independance to a much later period than 
most of the other Hindoo chiefs. He was first compelled by Tippoo to pay 
tribute, 'which he now does to the Company. Mutta Tamburan, Raja of Cochin, 
died in 1787, of the small pox, and was succeeded by his younger brother Viru- 
lam Tamburan. The following places, and some other towns, belonged to this 
prince, viz. Naharica, Condanada, Perimanoor, Anjicaimal, Udiamper, Mulla- 
venturutti, Palicare, Cenotta, Ceovare, Pucotta, Arshtamichery, and Putten- 
chera. On the 6th January, 1791, a treaty was concluded with the Raja of 
Cochin, to enable him to throw off his subjection to Tippoo and transfer his 
allegiance to the East India Company, as also to recover certain districts which 
the Sultan had usurped from him. On this occasion (the conquest of Cochin) 
the conditions of the various treaties entered into between the Dutch and the 
Rajas of Cochin were transferred to the British government, and acted upon by 
the British officers at Cochin, until from the absence of any efficient authority 
at that station they fell into disuse. The government afterwards deemed it ad- 
visable to establish a court of justice under a judge and magistrate at Cochin, 
transferring to its jurisdiction all persons and places formerly entitled to the 
protection of the Dutch. The classes specified in the treaties of 1669, 1772, 
and 1785, were the Christians, Jews, Banyans, Canarese, and silversmiths in- 
habiting the Cochin territory. 

Previous to the Travancore war, in 1809, the Raja of Cochin was tributary to 
the British government for that portion of his territories which had been con- 
quered from Tippoo, and he paid altogether a subsidy of one lack of rupees. At 
that time the state of Cochin, notwithstanding its obligations to the British go- 
vernment, was supposed to entertain sentiments decidedly partial to the French 
nation, and maintained an aggregate of military force perfectly superfluous for 
any purpose of internal government. At length, incited by the Dewan Paliat 
Acheen, it commenced an unprovoked and preposterous war against the British, 
and attempted in a treacherous manner to assassinate the resident. In acting 
thus, the conduct of Cochin was infinitely more culpable than that of Travancore, 
which had grievances to complain of, and its perfidy at a critical juncture entirely 
justified the resolution adopted by the British government to conclude a stew 
treaty with the Raja, by the condition^ which his tribute was augmented to 
276,037 rupees. But in fixing this tribute it was not recollected, that the whole 
gross revenue was only 480,000nipees, and that after paying three-fifths of that 
sum, the remainder would not be sufficient to meet the expenses of collection, 



COCHIN. 


305 

of police establishments, of temples and religious institutions, and at the same 
time provide for the support of the Raja and the numerous branches of his family. 

About the same date (1809) it was discovered that Paleat Achein, the Dewan 
of Cochin, had been an active promoter of the commotions in this quarter of 
India, and ciosely confederated with the refractory and ambitious Dewan of Tra- 
vuncore* Nor was the Cochin Raja himself altogether exempted from the sus- 
picion of having countenanced the Dewan’s projects, but his guilt probably never 
proceeded so far, and the appearances in all likelihood were caused by his negli- 
gence and imbecility, which prevented his perceiving the criminal plots fabri- 
cated and conducted within the walls of his own palace. The Cochin Dewan 
on being taxed with his treacherous machinations immediately confessed the 
whole, and acknowledged the clemency with which he had been treated. He 
was in consequence ordered to repair to Bombay, but in the course of his jour- 
ney deviated to Trichoor, from whence, however, he was removed, and trans- 
ported in safety to his ultimate destination. 

To prevent the authority and resources of this chieftain being again directed 
against his allies, by the new treaty concluded with the Raja in 1810, the 
surrender of his fortresses, arms, and military stores were stipulated, and also 
the reduction* ana reformation of his military establishment ; but the good effects 
expected from this arrangement were frustrated by the continued dissensions 
between the Raja and his new Dewan Koonjee Kissen Merawen, who was sup- 
posed to be influenced by persons hostile to the British government. The 
Dewan was in consequence removed from that high office, and the duties of it 
undertaken by the British resident until, a fit successor could be found. This 
was, however, no easy task, for the country was divided into factions invete- 
rate against each other ; nor did any of the principal men possess sufficient 
character or abilities, to qualify them for so important a task in a principality 
full of foreign, discontented, and turbulent persons. Such a state of anarchy, 
added to the very bad description of the revenue servants, required strong and 
vigorous coercion the powers necessary for which, if confided to a Dewan, 
would have been, as they had been, abused, nothing therefore remained but the 
temporary interposition of the representative of the British government. This 
arrangement was most earnestly solicited by the Raja, who alleged that nothing 
else could restore subordination to his authority, economy in the expenditure, 
or tranquillity in the country. With respect to himself, his life, he said, had been 
passed in studying the Shastras, and that it was now so fast verging to its ter- 
mination, that he was unable to attend to business, while his heir apparent had 
the opposite defect of being too young and inexperienced. Under these circum- 
stances he was of opinion that in committing his dominions to the temporary care 
vol. n. a a 



306 COCHIN. [cochik. 

of the British government, he did an act of justice to his subjects while he 
gratified his own wishes. 

The Resident in consequence stood forth as Dewan, until the Raja should be 
relieve^ from his embarrassments, and commenced by recommending that the 
Cochin tribute should be reduced from 276,037 to 240,000 rupees, the resources 
of the country being unequal to the liquidation of a larger sum, while the debt 
due to the British government for arrears of subsidy amounted to 522,437 ru- 
pees. This proposal was acceded to, and various reforms effected in the revenue 
collections and current expenses, one of the heaviest of which is f6r religious ; 
establishments, although these disbursements at Cochin are by no means so 
immoderate as the expenditure for the same purpose in the neighbouring king- 
dom of Travancore. In 1814, considerable difficulty in realizing the revenues 
of the Raja’s territories was experienced, on account of the refractory conduct 
of the Christian inhabitants, who paid scarcely any revenue, and refused to re- 
cognize his authority. Prior to this date native Christian judges had been ap- 
pointed to all the courts of justice in Travancore and Cochin, for the protection 
of the Christian inhabitants against the hostility of the Nair public functionaries. 
Like all other chiefs of Hindostan, the Raja of Cochin is greatly attached to 
money, and is, when he has the means, a hoarder by nature, but ever since his 
connexion with the British nation he has had no opportunity, having hitherto 
had enough to do to liquidate the different claims for the expenses incurred in 
defending his dominions, and subduing his own contumacious subjects . — (Cobh 
nel John Munro, F. Buchanan , C . Buchanan, J. Fell , 8$c.) 

Cochin. — The city from which the foregoing principality originally derived 
its name, but which has long ceased to form any part of the Cochin dominions. 
Lat. 9° 57' N. long. 76° 17' E. In 1503, Albuquerque obtained leave to erect a 
fortress at Cochin, which was the first possessed by the Portugueze in India. In 
1663, it was taken by the Dutch, who converted the cathedral into a warehouse. 
While the Dutch Company possessed Cochin, it was a place of very extensive 
commerce, and inhabited by Jew, Hindoo, and Mahotnmedan merchants. The 
intercourse with Arabia was very great, and Venetian zequins brought from 
Egypt were in circulation, while many of the Arab ships made two voyages 
annually. 

A considerable traffic is still carried on with Surat, Bombay, the Malabar 
coast, and Canara ; also with Arabia, China, and the eastern islands. The prin- 
cipal imports from these places are almonds, dates, pearls, gum arabic, piece 
goods, cotton, opium* shawls, benzoin, camphor, cinnamon, spices, sugar candy, 
tea, china, and silks. The chief exports are pepper, cardamoms, teak wood, 
sandal wood, coco nuts, coir cordage, cassia, and fish maws. At this port also 



VXRAPXLLY.] COCHIN. 307 

•hip building is carried on to a considerable extent, vessels being constructed 
both on European and Asiatic models; and from hence the ports in the Arabian 
and Persian gulfs are supplied with timber for repairing their different craft. In 
1800, ship building here cost about £14 per ton, coppered and equipped for sea in 
the European manner. 

The Roman Catholic bishop of Cochin now resides at Coilan. His diocese 
begins south of Cochin and extends towards Negapatam, includes the island of 
Ceylon, and comprehends above 100 churches. Besides the Catholic churches, 
there are at Cochin a great population of Protestants, the remains of the Dutch 
colonists. Among all the Europeans settled in India, the Dutch have the merit 
of having greatly promoted the dissemination of Christianity wherever they 
gained a settlement. In their time clergymen presided over districts, and made 
annual visitations, but all religious and scholastic institutions have been neglected 
since the transference of the country to the British. Cochin was taken posses- 
sion of on the rupture with the Dutch in 1795, and was finally ceded to the 
British government by treaty on the 13th of August, 1814. — ( C . Buchanan, Fra 
Paolo , F. Buchanan , Bruce , Missionaries , 8$c. 8$c. 8$c.) 

Diamper ( Udyamapura ). — A town in the Cochin territories, 14 miles E. from 
Cochin. Lat. 9° 56' N. long. 76° 29' E. A celebrated synod was held here to 
convert the Nestorian Christians to the Roman church. 

* Jacotta. — A small town on the sea coast of Cochin, where, according to a 
tradition in Malabar, St. Thomas landed. Lat. 10° 10' N. long. 76° 10' E. 

Cranganore (Cadungulur). — A town on the Malabar coast, 16 miles N. from 
the city of Cochin. Lat. 10° 12' N. long. 76° 15' E. This town formerly be- 
longed to the Dutch, but as they were unable to defend it against Tippoo, they 
sold it to the Raja of Travancore, which occasioned the first war with that My- 
sore Sultan, commencing in June 1790. It was taken from the Raja and dis- 
mantled by M. Lally, Tippoo’s general, but the Mysorean troops wefe driyen 
out of it in 1791. 

The Jews assert that they possessed Cranganore so early as A. D. 490. In 
1505 the Portugueze erected a fortress here, of which the Dutch obtained pos- 
session in 1663. The diocese of the Roman Catholic archbishop of Cranganore 
extends from Mount Dilly towards Cochin. Most of the inland churches for- 
merly belonging to the Nestorian community are included in it. This see com- 
prehends 89 churches, and is under the domination of Goa . — ( Fra Paolo , Bruce , 
Dow , C. Buchanan , 8$c.) 

Virapeley ( Varapali ). — A town on the Malabar coast belonging to the Raja, 
of Cochin, and situated nine miles N. E. from the town of Cochin. Lat. 10° 5 
N. long. 76° 20" E. This is the residence of the apostolic vicar of the Roman 

K R 2 



308 COCHIN. [TRI PONT ART* 

Catholic Christians, who superintends 64 churches, exclusive of the 46 governed 
by the Archbishop of Cranganore, and also of the large dioceses under the 
bishops of Cochin and Quilon, whose churches extend to Cape Comorin. There 
is here a seminary, a catechumen house, and a convent of barefooted Carmelites, 
who hive the care of the missionary establishments on the coast of Malabar. 
The monastery was founded A. D. 1673. — (C, Buchanan , Fra Paolo, fyc.) 

Tripontary. — A town in the R^ja of Cochin’s territories, nine miles east 
of the town of Cochin. Lat. 9° 66' N. long. 76° 25' E. This place stands on 
the east side of a lake, which formerly separated the possessions of* the Dutch 
from those of the Raja, who generally makes it his place of residence. 



THE PROVINCE OF TRAVANCORE. 


(tiruvancodu.) 


A province situated at the south-western extremity of Hmdostan, between 
the 8th and 10th degrees of north latitude. To the north it is bounded by the 
territories of the Cochin Raja; on the south and west by the sea ; and to the 
east it is separated from Tinnevclly by a range of lofty hills covered with jungle. 
In length it may be estimated at 140 miles, by 40 the average breadth. The 
surface of the country, in the vicinity of the mountains, exhibits a varied scene 
of hill and dale, and winding streams, which flow from the hills and preserve 
the Tallies in a state of perennial verdure. The grandeur of the scene is much 
enhanced by the lofty forests by which the mountains are covered, producing 
pepper, cardamoms, cassia, frankincense, and other aromatic gums.. In the 
woods at thebottem of the hills are many elephants, buffaloes, and tigers .of the 
largest size. Monkies and apes are very numerous, and herd together in flocks 
and families. 

The agriculture and productions of Travancore, well adapted to its more fa- 
vourable climate and superior soil, differ materially from the cultivation and 
crops of the Carnatic. The wet cultivation is conducted without the aid of 
tanks, the seasons affording sufficient moisture for the production of rice on 
every spot fit for that purpose, and as the utmost degree of industiy is exerted, 
the quantity produced in a country like this, where the crops never fail, must 
necessarily be large. The natives believe this to be so considerable, that they 
assert the whole of the government expenses, civil, military, and religious, are 
defrayed from the wet cultivation alone, without infringing on the revenues ac- 
cruing from the dry species of tillage. The latter consists principally of the 
following articles pepper, of which from 5 to 10,000 candies may be pro- 
duced annually, and valued at 485,000 rupees. For this valuable article the 
Travancore government pay the proprietor only 30 rupees per candy. Betel 
nut is also monopolized by the state, which makes advances to the cultivator, 
tad resells it at a great profit Coco-nut trees are very numerous, and axe assessed 
according to their productive powers, being usually divided into four classes. 



THE PROVINCE 


310 

the tax on each increasing progressively. An additional tax levied on this ar- 
ticle by the Dewan of Travancore, in 1799, caused an insurrection, which con- 
tinued until the tax was repealed. Of the four sorts of trees, the first are the 
scarcest, and it is observed, that north of Quilon ( or Coulan) coco-nut trees are 
far more abundant than south of it. 

The timber forests of Travancore are in general farmed, the revenue to go- 
vernment varying according to circumstances, but estimated on an average at 
one lack of rupees per annum. Among the other articles of monopoly are gin- 
ger, farmed for 25,000 rupees per annum : coir, 30,000 ; turmeric, 10,000 ; and 
kopra, or dried coco-nut kernels, 20,000 rupees per annum. Tobacco for the 
consumption of the province is generally brought from Ceylon, the average\ 
quantity being 4000 bales, each of which costs the Travancore government 60 \ 
rupees, and is afterwards resold at 220 rupees per bale. Fifteen hundred bales \ 
of cotton are also imported from Surat, upon which the government levies a 
duty of 45 rupees per candy. The revenue realizes from the purchase of carda- 
moms 100 rupees on every candy, besides full reimbursement of all expenses 
attending the original advance to the cultivator, and the charges of transport- 
ation. In the interior of Travancore duties are exacted on the transit of all 
articles, and the payment at one place scarcely ever exempts the trader from a 
repetition at another, passes being unknown, except for certain articles already 
farmed. Among other articles ^produced in the country and taxed by the go- 
vernment, are cassia buds, mace, long nutmegs, wild saffron, narwally, coculus 
indicus, bees wax, elephants’ teeth, and sandal wood. The sea customs of 
Travancore are farmed, and yield on an average about one lack of rupees per 
annum. 

Besides *those above stated, there are various other sources of revenue to the 
Travancore sovereignty, such as taxes on Christian festivals, and upon nets and 
fishermen ; but the most important is a capitation tax on all males from 16 to 60, 
with the exception of Nairs, JVIoplays, and artificers. This operates as a tax on 
the soil, and compensates to the government for the light assessment on the gram 
produce. The landholder is bound for all the cultivators on his estate, and each 
person is assessed at three fanams. The number subjected to this tax has been 
estimated at 250,000. The sum total of these multifarious exactions has been 
computed at 20 lacks of rupees, which is exclusive of the wet cultivation as al- 
ready mentioned, and from the detail here presented, some idea may be filmed' 
of the unsparing rapacity of the fiscal regulations under a genuine Hindoo so- 
vereign, the whole having been imposed before Travancore had any connexion 
with the British government ; since which event, indeed, several of the most 
vexatious have been either abolished or modified. Pepper, the great staple of 



OF TRAVANCORE 311 

Travancore, has latterly fallen so greatly in value, as to be almost unsaleable, 
what formerly brought 220 rupees per candy having gradually fallen to little ' 
more than sixty. 

Under the old government of Travancore the police of the country was con- 
ducted in the following manner. The territory at large was separated into three 
principal Moghums or districts, each of which was administered by an officer en- 
titled Nuller Serwaddy Karigar. Every chief Moghum was subdivided into 
three or four subordinate Moghums, managed by officers termed Serwaddy Kari- 
gar s. These latter were again partitioned into inferior portions, Mundurfurt 
Wassils, superintended by Karigars, each of which contained from seven to ten 
smaller divisions called Prowutties, governed by functionaries in some parts of 
the country named Prowuticars, and in others Adigars. Again, every Prowulty 
was separated into Desams, under officers named Modacars, and containing 
from four to 500 inhabitants; and lastly, these Desams were further minutely 
partitioned into smaller divisions; each under the direction of petty functionaries 
having various denominations. Thus, from the Dewan or prime minister to the 
superintendant of a few houses, there was an uninterrupted chain of authorities 
subordinate in the strictest sense to their respective superiors, and exercising all 
the powers of government ; for they were not only charged with the revenue 
assessments, the administration of justice, and chastisement of offenders, but 
also with the command of the militia and defence of the country. The whole 
arrangement was calculated to obtain the completest command over the persons 
and property of the people ; nor could any form of government be better adapted 
for the purposes of extortion and oppression throughout ajl their ramifications. 
These, however, were exactly the abuses which the British government never 
permitted in their own territories, and endeavoured to remedy in Travancore by 
introducing a balance of authority, and depriving the Karigars of their judicial 
and military functions, thereby reducing them to the station of mere revenue of- 
ficers. 

A short time before the effective interposition of the British government, the 
Dewan o* Travancore, in imitation of the regulations promulgated in the Com- 
pany’s provinces, established a certain number of courts of justice, for.thebenefit 
of the people. The Dewan’s system consisted of four courts, each having a 
Nair judge and a Complement of writers ; but this Hindoo magistrate was fur- 
nished with no rules v for the guidance either of his decisions or of the subsequent 
execution of his decrees, nor were any precautions taken to preserve him from 
his own oblique tendency to indolence and corruption. The Karigars in conse- 
quence continued to administer and decide as before, while the people, being con- 
fused by the mixture of authorities, knew not where to apply for the redress of 



THE PROVINCE 


312 

their grievances, and despising the new courts of judicature, contemned their 
sentences when passed. To remedy this confusion, an improved system was in- 
troduced in 1810 by Colonel John Munro, the British resident at the court Of 
Travangore. In this code the Hindoo law was continued as the basis for the de- 
cision of suits, but, in certain cases, departure from the strict letter of those laws 
was permitted, they being in fact opposed in many points by the Mamool, or un- 
written law of the country ; besides which, the great proportion of Christians 
and Mahommedans rendered an implicit adherence impracticable. According to 
the Hindoo Shastras, or sacred writings, the killing of a cow is capital, and trial 
by ordeal sanctioned, which latter custom prevailed in Travancore to an incredi- 
ble extent, as also other practices equally extravagant and absurd, while the pu- 
nishments decreed were various, cruel, often ludicrous, and in reality inflicted 
according to the caprice of the Dewan and his subordinate officers. Among 
other cases which came before the Resident while acting as Dewan, was an ap- 
peal from the decision of a Karigar, who had directed certain property to be 
given up to a man on his oath. This suit being referred by the Resident to ar. 
assembly of Pundits for their opinion, they reported “ that the decision of the 
Karigar was correct and just, but as the oath taken had been rendered void, 
owing to the death of a cow in the house of the person who had sworn, before 
the term of 40 days had expired, the property must be relinquished to the op- 
posite party.” 

Travancore, from the earliest tradition, had been subject to a Hindoo govern- 
ment and guided by Hindoo laws, which, in many instances, were founded less 
upon general principles of justice or morality, applying to all descriptions of 
persons, than upon peculiar dogmas of the Brahminical faith. Many delinquen- 
cies, pronounced capital by the Hindoo laws, are not even deemed criminal by the 
Christian or Mahomme dan codes ; nor in Travancore could these two persuasions 
be considered as strangers, being, in fact, an ancient and inherent portion of the 
comtuunity. It was accordingly thought improper to subject them to the Hindoo 
criminal law, and it consequently became necessary to frame a separate system- 
of criminal jurisprudence for each different class, modelled upon that promul- 
gated in the Company’s ancient provinces, although such a system must ab- 
stractedly be admitted to be liable to many objections, as the Parsee and Jew 
might have also oheruded their respective pretensions. When submitted. by the 
Resident, most of the requisite modifications of the Shastras were adopted by tile 
assembled Pundits without hesitation, and acquiesced in by the Queen, as in no 
respect radically opposed to the Hindoo doctrines. But to the trial by ordeal 
both parties dung with remarkable pertinacity, and it became necessary, in com- 
pliance with their united supplications, to admit it in certain cases under the ex- 



OF TRAVANCORE. 313 

press sanction of the Dewan. Indeed, in Travancore, even so preposterous a 
mode of trial appears to have been productive of salutary effects, in restraining 
through the medium of their superstition and cowardice, the excesses of acunning, 
avaricious, and cruel generation. So contagious is example, that this species of 
trial had pervaded other sects, and had occasionally been resorted to by the 
Jews of Travancore. One unfortunate Hebrew complained to the Resident that 
he, having incurred suspicion, had been obliged to put his hand into a vessel full 
of boiling oil, and not being able to sustain the fiery scrutiny had lost his cause 
and the use of his hand. 

The existing compilation of Hindoo law in Travancore is named Vavahara 
Malika, comprehending the rules for trial and judgment, with a detailed exposi- 
tion of the sacred texts. This code is said to have been drawn up by Mahesha 
Mungalum Sancara Numbuderi a Brahmin of the Malabar coast, and inhabitant 
of Parumanum in the district of Valesayanum, in the territory of Cochin, about 
A. D. 1498. The application of these laws to all classes, had been long con- 
firmed by the usages of the country, all the inhabitants of Travancore, with one 
exception only, having uniformly been tried and punished according to the Shas- 
tras. This solitary exception had reference to a body of Patans, in the service 
of the late Raja, who obtained from him a written promise that they should be 
tried in all matters, both civil and criminal, in conformity with the tenets of the 
Koran ; but in 1811, few individuals of that corps survived to benefit by the ex- 
emption. In that year regular courts of justice were established at Azoon, Pal- 
panarum, Trivandram* Mahavalicara, Vaikam and Alwaie; but the British am- 
bassador was obliged to perform the functions of Dewan, it being incredibly dif- 
ficult throughout the whole province, to discover a person of sufficient abilities 
and integrity to fill so important a station. The appointment of a native Dewan 
was much desired bv a great proportion of the principal Nair inhabitants, who 
had long been accustomed to oppress all other classes of people, and to arrogate 
to themselves an offensive superiority inconsistent with a system of impartial jus- 
tice. A Hindoo Dewan, they concluded, would favour their particular interests, 
and support their extravagant pretensions ; but the middling and inferior orders 
desired the continuance of the existing system, under which they experienced 
most justice and personal security. Under the new arrangement letters addressed 
to the different departments, after being read to the Resident, were dispatched to 
the respective offices, where replies were drawn up and brought to the Resident 
for his signature. This mode 6f correspondence was discovered to be absolutely 
necessary, for the different functionaries in the provincial parts were so prone to 
indirect channels of communication, that they seldom addressed their letters to 
the chief authorities, while the native servants at head quarter^vwere eager to m- 
vol. II, « s 



THE PROVINCE 


314 

crease their own importance, and probably to accomplish other objects, by com* 
municating orders in the Resident’s name. 

In September 1812, the debt due to the British government from the Travan- 
core state had been reduced to six lacks of rupees, and was in a train to be soon 
altogether liquidated. In consequence of this orderly and prosperous state of 
affairs, an application was made to the Queen by the Resident, soliciting her to 
relieve him from the laborious duties he had to perform as Dewan, or prime 
minister, but her Majesty in reply urged the most vehement objections, and 
intreated it might not take place unless absolutely indispensable. The Ranny, t 
or Queen of Travancore, by her sex, and the Raja of Cochin, owing to his j 
age and infirmities, being prevented from effectually superintending the ad- \ 
ministration of affairs, preferred delegating the trust rather to a British func- ^ 
tionary in whose moderation and justice they could repose confidence, than to \ 
one of their own subjects, whose ambition, avarice, and pride they might find 
themselves, as had often happened before, unable to controul. Indeed the con- 
duct of the successive Dewans of Travancore and Cochin for a long series of 
years, had been distinguished by an overbearing intemperance towards their 
sovereigns, which rendered the existing chiefs yof these principalities averse to the 
re-establishment of so imperious an officer. 

Travancore being one of the subdivisions of the Malabar coast, the usages 
and customs greatly resemble those described under that head, and the mode of 
succession to the throne and property is regulated in the same preposterous msm- 
ner. The husbands of the Tamburetties, or princesses here, have no rank or au- 
thority whatever in the state, and are always sent back to their villages on the 
decease of the Tamburetties to whom they had been married. At a very early 
period the Christian religion gained a footing in Travancore, and its subsequent 
progress was so great, that this province is now estimated to contain 90,000 per- 
sons professing the Christian doctrines. In some parts Christian churches are 
numerous, and Hindoo temples so rare, that the traveller with difficulty believes 
himself to be in India. The most common name given to the Christians of Ma- 
labar by the Hindoos of the country is that of Nazaranee Mapila (Moplay), but 
very frequently Surians and Surianee Mapila. A great proportion of the fisher- 
men on the sea-coast of Travancore and Malabar are Christians* The principal 
sea-ports are Anjengo, Coulan (or Quilon), Aibecca, and Coleshy. Strong, cur- 
rents prevail along the coast, which frequently carry ships bound round Cape 
Comorin, a considerable distance to the westward. There are no fortresses of 
any importance in the province ; but against hpstility from TineveUy, a double 
line of works, facing from north to north-east, aid the natural defence of the range 
of mountains, which terminate near Cape Comorin With respect to the general 



OF TRAVANCORE. 315 

character of the natives, it seems to have struck two successive Residents as 
being of the very worst description One of them declares he never knew a 
people so destitute of truth and honesty, or so abandoned to vice and corruption, 
and that this is exactly the opinion they entertain of themselves; while the other 
asserts, that in no part of the world are men to be found to whose habits and 
affections the practice of vice, through all its debasing, loathsome, and hideous 
gradations, seems so familiar. This turpitude he partly attributes to the 
perverted system of their domestic relations, under which the social cha- 
rities, parental ties and affections, which connect father with child, and 
neighbour with neighbour, are extinguished. Independent of these causes, an 
oppressive government in Travancore had nearly destroyed the sources of its 
prosperity, and impressed on its inhabitants such a disposition to idleness, tur- 
bulence and treachery, as rendered them equally dangerous to the security of 
their own Rajas, and to the British authority ; their history for many years prior 
to 1809, exhibiting an unbroken series of insurrections and crimes. 

There seems no reason to doubt that by the laws of this kingdom, the male 
offspring of the Tamburetties or princesses are the only legal heirs to the throne; 
but that there are certain forms and ceremonies indispensable to the becoming 
Tamburetties. It also appears established, that the Tamburetties of Attingara 
possessed the sovereignty of Travancore from remote antiquity, until Raja Mar- 
tanden Wurmah, who died in 1758, and was the son of one of the Tamburetties 
adopted from Cherical, persuaded the reigning Tamburetty to resign the sovereign 
authority to the Rajas, both for herself and for all succeeding Tamburetties. To 
perpetuate these conditions, a regular treaty was executed between the Raja and 
the Tamburetty, which was inscribed on a silver plate, and ratified by the most 
solemn imprecations, limiting the successions to the offspring of the Attinga 
Tamburetties. Having concluded this arrangement, Raja Martanden Wurmah 
directed his arms against the neighbouring states, and between 1740 and 1755 
subdued the Rajas of Quilon, Ambulapilly, Tekimcoor, Wurkancoor, Allanghaut, 
and Paroor, whose dominions he annexed to his own. He also conquered part of 
the territories of Cochin, obliged the Ranny of Mahavalicary to adopt him as 
her successor, and expelled the Dutch from part of their acquisitions. These 
events were effected in consequence of the Raja having had his troops disciplined 
after the European manner, by Eustachius de Lanoy, a Flemish officer. From 
the above period, the Rajas of Travancore, by intrigue and force, continued to 
swallow up aU the adjacent petty chiefs, until April 1790, when, in consequence 
of a dispute about the purchase of Cranganore, made by the Raja from the 
Dutch, Tippoo .Sultan attacked his lines, penetrated to Virapelly, and but 
for Lord Coritwalliss intjerference would have totally subdued the province. 

s s % 



THE PROVINCE 


316 

These celebrated lines were deemed by the natives impregnable, but although 
sufficient with respect to the construction of the ditch and rampart, they were 
really more imposing than effectual, as throughout the great extent of 30 miles, 
few points were closed in the rear, and these imperfectly, so that nearly the 
whole would follow the fate of a single point. 

On the 17th of November, 1795, a treaty of alliance was concluded between 
the Raja of Travancore and the British government, by the conditions of which, 
certain lands taken from him by Tippoo were restored, and he agreed to pay a 
subsidy equivalent to the expense of three battalions of infantry, to be main- 
tained for the defence of his own dominions ; and in the event of war he agreed 
to assist his allies with his forces. By a second treaty concluded in 1805, he 
was released from the last-mentioned condition, in consideration of which he 
agreed to pay a sum equal to the expense of one battalion of native infantry, in 
addition to the sum before payable for the troops subsidized by him. In case 
of non-payment, the British government were authorized to collect the amount 
by their own agent ; free entrance being also given during the existence of war 
to all the Raja’s towns and fortresses ; but provision was made, that the Raja’s 
income should in no case be less than two lacks of rupees per annum, with one- 
fifth of the clear annual revenue. By this document, the Raja transferred the 
management of all his external political relations exclusively to his allies. As 
frequently occurs in native governments, the dewan, or prime minister of Tra- 
vancore, attained an influence in the country which wholly superseded that of 
his master, and was exercised in so hostile a manner towards the British govern- 
ment, that a war ensued in 1809, and his strongly fortified lines, guarded by a 
numerous army, were forced by a small detachment of British troops, and the 
whole country subdued with unprecedented rapidity. 

The failure of the measures adopted by the Travancore state for the liquida- 
tion of its debts, attracted the serious attention of Lord Minto, who, towards 
the conclusion of 18C9, addressed a letter to the Raja, notifying the impending 
necessity of assuming his territories, unless effectual exertions were made to sa- 
tisfy the just demands of the British government. This letter, however, with 
many reiterated injunctions, produced no effect, and so far was the debt from 
being in the least reduced, that in October, 1810, when the newly-appointed 
resident, Colonel John Munro, reached Travancore, a sum, amounting to 18 lacks 
of rupees, remained due to the British government, besides five lacks of engage- 
ments due to individuals. The resident, having been instructed to use the most 
strenuous measures for the clearing off of these incumbrances, proceeded to 
ascertain the existing state of the treasury, and the general mode of conducting 
affairs ; both of which he found as defective as could have been expected in f 



OF TRAVANCORE. 317 

ft native government left to itself. A short investigation convinced him that the 
Raja could not, in justice, be called on to discharge the debt, as he had had little 
or no concern in the contracting of it, neither did it appear, after the strictest 
inquiry* that he possessed any concealed treasure. The revenues of the state 
were consequently the only available resources, the Raja not being responsible 
for their previous misappropriation, they having been entirely beyond his con- 
troul, and wholly under that of his dewan, at whose pleasure the revenues were 
collected or remitted, and the fiscal officers appointed and dismissed. Nor was 
any account of the receipts and disbursements ever presented to the sovereign. 
The Dewan was consequently the person who ought to have been liable for the 
debt, and he was repeatedly called on to exhibit statements of the financial re- 
sources of the country, and to adopt energetic measures for their realization ; 
but here again the application was unavailing, for the Dewan was utterly unable 
to arrange any satisfactory, or even probable statement. 

Not long afterwards the Raja died, and the throne was occupied by the Tam- 
buretty, or princess, next in succession ; the Elliah Raja, or heir apparent, being 
excluded, his mother not having undergone certain forms and ceremonies indis- 
pensable to the becoming Tamburetties. The defect of the young Raja’s claim 
being established, and no male heir remaining, the Resident was directed 
to invest the senior Tamburetty with the temporary charge of the government, 
until one of the Tamburetties had a son on whom the succession might devolve. 

Between this hdy and the Dewan such extreme animosity took place, that, 
added to his intractable conduct and embezzlement of confiscated property, ren- 
dered his removal unavoidable. The whole burden of the government was then 
assumed by the Resident, it being evident that no effectual reform could take 
place while affairs were transacted through the medium of a native functionary* 
Since this efficient interposition, many desirable objects have been accomplished. 
The debt due by Travancore has been fully discharged, as well as the engage- 
ments due to private individuals, an adequate system for the administration of 
justice introduced, and the collection of the revenues regularly arranged. Many 
obstacles opposed these reforms, especially in the revenue department, which 
was a perfect Augean stable, partly occasioned by the very nature of the Tra- 
vancore fiscal resources. These, as already mentioned, arise principally from 
monopolies of the productions of the country, the sale of tobacco, and of other 
articles purchased from the cultivators at low prices, and re-sold to foreign 
traders at advanced rates. The income from several of these, owing to unto- 
ward circumstances, in 1810, wholly failed; which necessarily augmented the 
importance of the land revenues ; but these presented a scene of unparalleled 
disorder* abuse* and corruption. Although the rent of every field in Travancore 



THE PROVINCE 


318 

is fixed, and exceedingly moderate, remissions of the land-tax to an immena* 
amount nad been made, apparently at the pleasure of the peasantry and revenue 
officers ; the collections had nOt been brought to account, and vast sums had 
been embezzled’ under a variety of ingenious and fraudulent pretexts. To 
remedy such evils required redoubled vigilance, but the resident was Mefe - 
tig-able. All capricious remissions of the revenue were prohibited, the collections 
ordered to be forwarded directly to the treasury, and many other corrupt prac- 
tices of old standing were eradicated. The result was so progressive an increase 
of (die landed resources, that in five years the amount of revenue realized had 
doubled, although the rent of a single field in the province had not been in- i 
creased, many of them having been actually diminished. The great in cr eas e , in 
reality, originated from the prevention of abuses, and the procuring for govern- 
ment the immense sums which in old times had been misappropriated by in- 
dividuals. 

Land revenues collected in the Travancore year, 984, A. D. (1809) partly 
under the management of the Dewan Womany Tomby , . 771,687 rupees. 
Ditto 1810 ditto under Womany Tomby .... 821,269 

Ditto 1811 ditto 788,000 

Ditto 1812 underColonel John Munro’s management 1,267,180 
Ditto 1813 ditto 1,562,830 

In the progress of these arrangements, the regular expenditure for the internal 
government of the province was considerably increased, e separate department 
for the distribution of justice having been established, occasioning an addition 
to the current disbursements of 30,000 rupees per annum. Some public offices 
were done away, but the salaries of all the remaining functionaries were in- 
creased. It had been the practice under the old system to maintain an immense 
number of public servants on small salaries, with the permission to realize un- 
acknowledged emoluments by embezzlement and extortion ; and as a step to- 
wards the extirpation of these practices, it was essentially necessary that the 
salaries of the public servants should be materially increased. One great state 
disbursement in Travancore is, on account of temples, and for the performance 
of stated religious rites. The allowances for both of these were not only left 
untouched, but discharged with a punctuality never before witnessed in this 
priest-ridden country. 

The second Tamburetty having, died of the small-pox in 1811, apprehensions 
were entertained that the chief Tamburetty, or- Queen Regent, might expe*. 
rience a similar fete. She was, in consequence, exhorted to undergo vaccination 
by a European physician, but she declared that, having already had the small- 
pox. it was unnecessary to vaccinate W, although, jf, insisted on, she was. 



QF TRAVANCOBE. 319 

willing to undergo the operation ; and in the mean time she recommended that 
the doctor should vaccinate her husband, the tv?o young TamburetUes, and 
some other members of the family. These persons were accordingly duly vacci- 
nated, and thereby preserved from that distemper which then raged with great 
mortality in Travaneore. About this time also, certain jewels belonging to thfe 
Travancore state, which the Elliah Raja, or heir apparent, had obtained posses- 
sion of, previous to his removal from the country, were, by the exertions or* Mr. 
Baber, the magistrate of Malabar, recovered, and restored to the legitimate go- 
vernment. These were the ancient jewels of the state, worn by the Rajas 
during religious festivals and public processions, and were estimated by the 
lowest calculation to exceed fourteen lacks of rupees in value. 

On the 16th of April, 1813, the Rallny of Travancore was delivered of a spn, 
and soon afterwards a white elephant was caught among the Shutamutqnoun- 
tains, to the great joy of the Qaieen and her subjects ; the colour of the animal 
indicating an auspicious reign to the young Raja, who had recently entered the 
world. All the learned about court agreed that this young prince was the legi- 
timate heir to the throne ; but some casuists were of opinion, that he could not 
without manifest impropriety be proclaimed before he was six months old, be- 
cause he neither -could redeive a namje, nor be carried into the presence of the 
god Pudmanaben, until he had attained that age. On further inquiry however, 
this objection was overruled ; the principal Brahmins having discovered that 
there was in reality no valid obstacle to his immediate inauguration, because 
he could be proclaimed under the name of Ram Raja (a title always assumed 
by the Travancore family), while the ceremonies at the Pagoda of the god Pud- 
manaben might be performed by the Queen, his mother. Accordingly, on the 
29th of July, 1813, the British troops stationed at Trivanderam were drawn out, 
having on their left the whole of the Travahcore military. A throqe concealed, 
by scarlet curtains was placed in the hall of audience, which being drawn up. 
the Queen appeared, seated on it, attended by her sister, the second Tam- 
buretty, the children of the former Rajas, and the principal Brahtnins and state 
officers* A proclamation notifying the accession of the young Raja was read 
aloud, and he was brought forward and shewn to the assembled multitude, 
during which time the Queen and every other person continued standing ; the 
British troops presented arms, and their band played Gad save the King, while 
the music of Travancore made a considerable noise. 

The Queen however was not destined long to enjoy her good fortune, for in 
September, 1B14, she was delivered of another son, and soon after died. The 
resident in consequence recommended her sister, the principal Tamburetty, to act 
as Regent during the minority of the infant Raja, a dignity to whieh in conformity 



THE PROVINCE 


320 


[pOECA. 


with the established usages of Travancore she had an undoubted right. This 
arrangement was subsequently carried into execution, when the young Raja and 
the other children of the deceased Ranny were placed under the joint care of 
their father, and the chief Tamburetty. Consistent with British policy, it is 
rather desirable that the dignity and consideration of the Tamburetties should be 
augmented, as their influence tends to moderate the rash and precipitate resolu- 
tions of the Raja, and the country still abounds with suppressed factions eager 
to profit by a renewed state of confusion. Towards the conclusion of 1814, all 
the objects for the attainment of which the Resident had assumed the station of 
Dewan, having been accomplished, and the debts of Travancore completely, 
liquidated, he prepared to resign his official functions, but great difficulty was) 
experienced in selecting a native properly qualified for so important a vocation. 
At length Deom Padumnassen was appointed, but dying soon after of the small 
pox, was succeeded by Soobyen Sunkor Narrain, who being alarmed at the mor- 
tality among the Travancore nobility, removed his Cutcherry (court of justice 
and revenue) from Trivanderam to Quilon. The total revenues of the kingdom 
when transferred to his management, were estimated at 30 lacks of rupees per 
annum, and the total subsidy payable to the British government for preserving 
internal tranquillity and preventing external invasion about eight lacks of rupees. 
(Colonel John Munro , MSS., Public MS. Documents, C. Buchanan, 8$c. 8fc. §c.) 

Travancore. — The ancient capital of the province, situated in lat. 8° 25' N. 
long. 77° 33' E. 27 miles N. N.^V. from Cape Comorin. 

Trivanderam. — The modern capital of Travancore, situated in lat. 8° 29' N; 
long. 79° 37' E. 52 miles N. W. from Cape Comorin. This is the usual sum- 
mer residence of the Travancore Rajas ; but the castle is extremely ill built. The 
royal palace is large and well built, after the European taste, and decorated with 
a great variety of painting, clocks and other European ornaments. This edifice, 
however, is only for show, as the Ruja prefers residing in a mean looking house, 
where he is surrounded with brahmins. The town is populous^ and in 1736, in 
addition to the resident inhabitants, had a garrison of 400 Patan cavalry, 1000 
Nairs, and 10,000 sepoys, disciplined after English fashion. — (Fra Paolo % Sfc.) 

Porvear. — A small town on the sea coast of Travancore, 32 miles W. N. W. 
from Cape Comorin. Lat. 8° 17' N. long. 77° 22' E. 

Teng av ap at am. A small town in the Travancore province, 30 miles W. N.W. 
from Cape Comorinn. Lat. 8° 16' N. long, 77° 25' E. 

Porca.- A town on the sea coast of Travancore, 134 miles N. W. from (Tape 
Comorin. Lat. 9° 21' N. long. 76° 24' E. This is a populous place inhabited 
by many Mahommedan, Hindoo, and Christian merchants. The adjacent country 
produces abundance of rice, and may be called the granary of Malabar. The 



ajnenco.] OF TRAVANCORE. 321 

Dutch East India Company had formerly a factory here for the purpose of pro- 
curing pepper, — (Fra Paolo , 8$c.) 

Caucouean.— A town in Travancore, 116 miles N. W. from Cape Comorin 
Lat. 9° 1 r N. long. 76° 33' E. 

Aibecca. — A small town in the province of Travancore, having a bar harbour, 
115 miles N. W. from Cape Comorin. Lat. 9° 7' N. long. 76° 32' E. Small ships 
are built here, and lime is burned from muscle and oyster shells, of which im- 
mense quantities are found in the neighbouring salt lakes, and between the small 
islands . — ( Fra Paolo , §c.) 

Coulan (or Qjuilon ). — A sea-port town in Travancore 102 miles N.N.W. 
from Cape Corao^n. Lat. 8°53'N. long. 76°39'E. This is a place of con- 
siderable trade ; obtton, pepper, ginger, cardamoms, and other articles of mer- 
chandize being deposited here in the warehouses. There is also abundance of 
excellent fish, tortoises, rice of a good quality, bananas, pine apples, and other 
fruits and pulse. 

In remote times Quilon was a place of considerable note, and is said to have 
been built A. D. 825. The Christian, as well as the Hindoo natives of this part 
of Malabar, commence their era at the period of its foundation. Alexius Me- 
nezes, the first Archbishop of Goa, opened here his first conference with the 
Christians of St. Thomas, when he made them renounce the principles pf Nes- 
torius, and embrace the doctrines of the Roman Catholic Church, to which they 
continue in part united. The Brahmins here possess a very ancient temple 
dedicated to Siva, and the Catholics have three congregations. Between Quilon 
and Cape Comorir there were reckoned thirty years ago to be 75 Catholic con- 
gregations scattered over the country . — ( Fra Paolo , §c.) 

Anjengo (A njvttnga ). — A small sea-port in the province of Travancore, 
situated in lat. 8° 37' N. long. 7G° 53' E. 78 miles N. N. W. from Cape Comorin. 
A abort distance from this place lies Attinga (named in the maps Attancal), the 
chief residence of the Tumburetties or princesses of Travancore. The interior 
of the country is inhabited by Hindoos, whereas on the sea coast the greater 
part of the inhabitants are Christians and Mahommedans. So far back as 1684, 
the East India Company received permission from the Queen of Attinga, to 
settle and fortify Anjengo, from whence they expected to procure a large quantity 
of tapper and cardamons, the staple produce of Travancore. This settlement, 
however, being merely a strip of land nearly surrounded by the Travancore 
d&imnions; the inhabitants* have always been obliged to depend for supplies of 
lice and other articles of consumption on that country ; the consequence was, 
that during the rupture, in 1809, with the Raja, or rather with his Dewan, the 
People Buffered great hardships from the interrupted intercourse* For these and 

vex., ii* x t 



322 THE PROVINCE OF TRAVANCORE. [kotattc, 

other reasons, the factory, in 1813, was first transferred to the Bombay presi- 
dency, and then abolished ; the saving to the Company by this measure was 
estimated at 23,037 rupees per annum. The best coir cables on the Malabar 
coast are* made here ind at Cochin, of the fibres of the Laccadive coco nut. The 
exports are pepper, coarse piece goods, coir, and some drugs ; the imports are 
of very small amount . — ( Fra Paolo , MS. Documents , Bruce, Sgc.) 

Coleshy. — A small town in Travancore, 19 miles W. by N. from Cape Co- 
morin. Lat. 8° IT N. long. 77° 32' E. There is a small harbour at this place, 
where ships are protected from the winds by some rocks. The Danes formerly 
had a factory here. 

Kotaur. — A town in Travancore, 14 miles N. W. from Cape Comorin. Lat. 
8° 13' N. long. 77°4rE. 



THE BALAGHAUT CEDED DISTRICTS. 


In the south of India, a stupendous wall of mountains, named the Ghauts, rises 
abruptly from the low country, supporting, in the nature of a terrace, a vast ex- 
tent of level plains, which are so elevated as to affect the temperature and ren- 
der the climate cooler. This table land extends from the Krishna to the south- 
ern extremity of the Mysore, and is named Balaghaut, or above the Ghauts, in 
contradistinction to Payeenghaut, or below the Ghauts. The extensive and 
fruitful region formed the ancient Hindoo empire of Karnata, no part of which 
was below the mountains, although in modem times the term has been so mis- 
applied by Europeans and Mahommedans as to signify exclusively the country 
(Carnatic) below the Ghauts Under the present head the term Balaghaut is re- 
stricted to the territories acquired by the British government in 1800, and since 
subdivided into the colleotorships of Bellary and Cuddapah. They were ac- 
quired by treaty with the Nizam, dated the 12th of October, 1800, and compre- 
hend all the territory, situated south of the Krishna and Toombudra rivers, 
which fell to the Nizam’s shares by the treaties of Seringapatam in 1792, and 
Mysore in 1799, together with the talook of Adoni,'and all his highness’s other 
districts south oi these rivers. This large tract of country now composes the 
Ceded Districts; and to these, two-thirds ofPanganoor were added, and part of 
Goodiput; having been exchanged for certain districts which had been reserved 
by the treaty of i ysore as the eventual portion of the Peshwa, but which by 
the supplementary treaty of Mysore fell into the possession of the British go- 
vernment. Under the ancient native sovereignties, this quarter of the Balaghaut 
was subdivided intio many sections, the chief of which were Kurnoul, Adoni, 
Cummim, Harponelly, Rydroog, Bellary, Gooty, Ghazipoor, Cuddapah, Dupaud, 
Gurrumcondah, Punganoor, and Sidout. 

The Ceded Districts contain more ground than Scotland, and occupy the cen- 
tre of what is improperly termed the peninsula, which inland position seems to 
occasion the frequent droughts experienced in these territories. The northern 
boundary is well defined, and the Toombudra river affords a sure protection for 
many months of the year. It also fills some water courses which fertilize the 
country about Bijanagur, the ancient Hindoo capital, and about Rampoor in 
afom. Owing to the elevated surface of this region it has no large rivers ex- 

tt2 



324 THE BALAGHAUT 

cept the Krishna and Toombudra, which mark its boundaries to the north. Hie 
southern portion of the Ceded Districts consists of vallies lying between the 
Eastern Ghaut mountains, which extend from Colar to Gurrumcondah, and from 
thence stretch inland as far west as Sera. To the north of these divisions are 
Cuddapatf, Gooty, and Bellary, which lie lower than the mountainous vallies to 
the south, but are intersected in different directions by many ranges of low hills. 

The soil of these territories is generally good, especially the black land, which 
when cleaned and properly ploughed requires nothing more than a harrowing 
for the next 20 years ; in fact, a farmer may cultivate a field of this description for 
his whole life without perhaps ploughing it more than once. The black soil is most 
common in the western divisions, where a noble plain of this description is seen, 
from the top of Adoni hill, stretching north-west and south-east from Gooty to 
the Toombudra, 50 miles long by from 16 to 20 broad, which whether it be 
considered as an object of agriculture or as landscape presents a grand prospect. 
This rich soil appears to be pure black mould from two to twelve feet deep, but 
how and when first collected remains unknown. It contains no vestiges of 
decayed branches or trees, while the red and black soils are often abruptly 
mixed ; the latter indeed is found among rocks where trees never could have 
grown. Round the hills and rocks, which abound, the soil is usually a red 
gravel, and both black and red soils are mixed with sand and calcareous stones. 
In some red fields they do not even attempt to clear the land of stones, as every 
successive ploughing raises a new crop of stones, which in some respects are 
not detrimental. 

The soil is generally more fertile than that of either Canara or Malabar. Two 
or three nights rain here will ensure a greater crop in proportion to the extent 
of surface and seed than six months drizzling in Canara. The black soil is the 
most fertile, and when once ploughed requires little further trouble ; but as the 
red soil is worked with slighter and cheaper tools, the poorer classes of fanners 
are generally settled on it. Drill husbandry is universal. The rains are uncer- 
tain, but ought to fall in June, at which period all the peasantry are looking up to 
the heavens for a shower, as one good night’s rain is enough to enable the culti- 
vator to sow his seed ; but if it fails in June the whole crop is in danger of being 
lost. If a little of the rain which deluges Canara, tears up the soil, and injures 
the agriculture, could be transferred to the Ceded Districts, they would be 
among the most fertile of Hindostan. As^it is, the rains are heavy in Septem- 
ber and October, when they often do as much damage by bursting the tanks as 
their absence occasions during the earlier months. 

The labour and expense of clearing black land are very great. Having cut 
down the shrubs and bushes on 100 acres, the former proceeds to plough east 



CEDED DISTRICTS. 


325 

and west for one month, and then north and south for another. The succeeding 
month is employed in grubbing up the roots, after which it is harrowed by a 
ponderous machine for one month and a half. This last mentioned implement is 
so heavy as to require 12 or 16 bullocks, which work from morning until noon and 
then rest. After the first great harrowing they again harrow with two smaller 
machines and six bullocks for a fortnight, and finally with a still smaller, drawn 
by two bullocks. The work, however, does not finish here, for labourers are 
required two weeks longer to clear the ground of roots after which light har- 
rows are again employed. This previous preparation being completed, cotton 
and koraloo are sown together by a drill machine, atter which it undergoes re- 
peated harrowing, hoeing, and drilling, and about three or four months after 
the crop is ripe, when it is reaped by three or four gatherings in the course of 
another month. If it be taken care of there will be no occasion to plough a 
field prepared in this manner for twenty years, but it must be annually har- 
rowed with four bullocks before the seed is scattered, if this be neglected, the 
great plough and heavy machinery must be again brought out There is still much 
waste land in this province where poverty cramps and deadens the efforts of the 
cultivator. In some parts the seed is put into the ground without any prior 
process and pressed down by a bush on which a large stone has been placed 
instead of a harrow. 

The red soil requires turning up and ploughing, 10 or 12 bullocks being ne- 
cessary for 100 acres. It is first cleared by hand labour with the hoe and 
hatchet, and then well ploughed. It is in general full of stones, which in some 
places they do not attempt to move. Sometimes they manure by folding sheep, 
1000 being necessary to manure six acres, when kept on it ten nights, which 
process, however, must be annually repeated., At other times they manure with 
ashes, dust, and the refuse of the village, which is thinly spread after a shower 
and ploughed in, this will last four years. The seed is then deposited by a drill 
of a simple construction, consisting of three shares which make three furrows 
about three inches deep. Three hollow bamboos are placed directly over the 
shares joined at the top in one cup, from whence the seed drops through the 
bamboos into the furrow. A woman follows the plough holding a hollow bamboo 
perpendicularly, with a cup at the top, into which she pours seed of a large size. 
This bamboo is dragged along by the drill machine, to which it is fixed by a 
st ring five or six feet long, the female holding it steady with one hand while she 
pours in the seed with the other. The plough with a horizontal share drawn by 
two bullocks follows, cutting the earth horizontally and filling up the furrow. 
To manage the drill and horizontal ploughs four persons and four bullocks are 
ntcesc^ry. One person drives the bullocks, another pours in the seed, of which 



THE BALAGHAUT 


32 6 

eight different kinds are frequently s6wn together, a woman conducts the hoi* 
low cylinder dragged after, and a man or boy drives the bullocks that follow 
with the horizontal plough. Before they begin to work, the machine is painted 
and consecrated. 

The great armies which have so often traversed this province have destroyed 
the trees except a few clumps which ate chiefly found among the hills, no ex* 
pease therefore should be spared in promoting the planting of trees, especially 
palmiras. According to the- survey accounts there are 50,258 wells in the Bala- 
ghaut Ceded Districts, of which, in 1807, above 13,914 were out of repair. 
Garden produce was then supposed to pay only about 6£ per cent, of the 
land rent. The bare rocks and absence of wood give the surface a rugged and 
savage appearance, which well agrees with the character of the people, Who 
are more laborious and hardy, and at the same time more ferocious than the 
natives below the 'Ghauts. Their food, dress, and weapons are also more manly 
than those of their lowland neighbours, and on the first acquisition to the terri- 
tory, every , inhabitant not only carried but was accustomed to the use of arms, 
while every village was fortified. At that era they were also probably the poor- 
est under the British government. So far were they then from having any pro- 
perty in the soil, like the landholders of Canara and Malabar, they Were seldom 
even fixed tenants, but migrated from farm to farm, and from village to village, 
where they elubbed together to carry on their cultivation. Even the houses 
were government property, and the only proprietors of land were the Enaura- 
dars. The enaum or charity lands of the village were established during the 
Hindoo empire of Byanagur, and tolerably well tilled. These lands had been re- 
served and measured by Tippoo, who laid his hands on every thing, but the 
ingenuity of individuals rendered the resumption little more than nominal, 

The troubles which so long prevailed in the Ceded Districts before they were 
transferred to the Madras presidency, occasioned the destruction of all the An- 
cient revenue accounts ; there is reason, however, to conclude from the tenor of 
all tradition, from existing documents, and from inquiries, that the land hat dl 
along been the property of government. The ancient princes were accustomed 
to grant away the property in the soil as well as the government rent, a proof 
that the land entirely belonged to government. Tradition states that the Bijar 
nagur dynasties took half the produce estimated, in kind, and converted it into 
money at a rate unfavourable to the farmers and cultivators. The avowed prill* 
cipleof the Mahommedans after the conquest of Bijanagur in 1564, was an equal 
division of the produce between the government and cultivator, the share of the 
fust being converted into money at the average of the ten preceding years, but 
the last was further burthened with the payment of fees. It is said that at the 



CEDED DISTRICTS 327 

period above mentioned there were few chiefs like the present Poligars. The 
chiefs of Anantpoor, Raydroog, and Ouke, were great officers of state under the 
Bijanagur empire, and held their districts as personal jaghires for their main- 
tenance, Even the Annagoondy Rajas, the descendants of the royal race who 
so long ruled the south of India, were at last subdued, and though permitted to 
hold a few districts, were subjected to Peshcush; The brood of Poligars, which 
afterwards did so much mischief, sprung up between the period above alluded 
to and the reign of Aurengzebe. 

War, famine, and bad management, all combined for many years to depopu- 
late the Ceded Districts and diminish their revenue, but the incessant rebellions 
of the Poligars seem to have been the main cause of their decline. These Po- 
ligars were originally either public officers of government who. held villages for 
their personal maintenance, or they were renters who set up for themselves, or 
lastly they were usurpers. Some were merely potails or head farmers, who 
taking advantage of the strength of the country and the weakness of the go- 
vernment, withheld the revenue and levied troops. These self-created chief* 
kept up all the state and were installed with all the formality of legitimate sove- 
reigns, although their incomes did not exceed 2 or 300 pagodas per annum, and 
their pretensions were never acknowledged by any of the different governments 
that preceded the British in the administration of the province. Neither the 
Cuddapah Nabobs, however, nor the Maharattas, could keep them in subjection 
or compel them to pay their tribute with regularity, while the struggles to en- 
force it on the one side and to resist it on the other, produced unceasing broils, 
and distracted the country during the whole of the 18th century. In fact, 
neither Hyder, Tippoo,or.the Nizam, made the slightest progress in restoring tran- 
quillity, and anarchy had attained its utmost perfection when they were trans- 
ferred to the British government. During this period of distraction the Poli- 
gars withheld the revenues in order to raise a force to defend themselves ; the 
army sent against them plundered on all sides, so that their rebellion and 
reduction were equally destructive to the miserable cultivators. 

In 1800, the British functionaries entered the Balaghaut Ceded Districts, 
where they found confusion worse confounded. The inhabitants had been 
plundered not only by the revenue officers, but by every person who could pay 
a bribe for the privilege of trying to extort money. The chief inhabitants had 
been not only permitted, but encouraged to carry on a predatory warfare against 
each other on the same terms. The indolence and corruption of the Nizam’s 
officers influenced them to abandon the collection of the revenue to Poligar ze- 
mindars and potails (headmen of villages). Every village was- .a garrison, the 
inhabitants of which frequently turned out and fought a pitched battle with the 



THE BALAGHAVT 


328 


village nearest to them. The Nizam’s troops were always engaged in the siege 
of some place, while the exactions of those thus armed with authority, and the 
habitual obstinacy of the village people, made it difficult to say which was in the 
right. Murders were so common that few families of any note had escaped as- 
sassinations, or were themselves unpolluted with blood In those times the 
head man acted the part of a little potentate in his own village, and the 
anarchy that pervaded the province might in some measure justify his taking 
upon himself the dictatorship of his little republic, but the impunity which a 
few hundred rupees secured for the most atrocious crimes, tempted every 
man who could afford it, to indulge his rapacity, malice, or ambition. In 
most parts, the head man of the village, the head cultivator, and the village ac- 
countant, so peaceable in the Company's old territories, had here become leaders 
of banditti, and chiefs of robbers garrisoning dens and castles. To the eastward 
matters were still worse, for there the Poligars had generally resumed thei* 
former situations and depredations. The impotence, in short, of the Nizam’s 
officers, the! predatory and military habits of the natives, so frequently overrun 
by large armies, the frequent transfers from one government to another, and the 
frontier situation which enabled offenders to escape, had introduced a state of 
anarchy scarcely ever excelled in the annals of India. 

In 1800 the strong arm of the British power established a reluctant tranquil- 
lity, and the country was beginning to recover from its state of desolation, when 
a severe drought in 1803 greatly injured it. In many places the failures of v the 
dry crop was so complete, that the blade never appeared above ground, in others 
it never produced an ear, but withering, was abandoned to the cattle. Unfortu- 
nately the same drought which prevailed in 1803, continued with unabating se- 
verity throughout 1804, when the evils were infinitely aggravated. The con- 
tinuance of the drought for two years had parched up the ground, there was no. 
grass in the pastures, straw was enormously dear, a great proportion of the cat- 
tle perished, and many of the poorer inhabitants; were forced to quit their houses. 
During this year the drought was so severe, that nothing but the prudent mear 
sures adopted by the principal collector (Colonel Thomas Munroj to alleviate, 
and mdre particularly his abstaining from all the measures which so frequently 
aggravate a scarcity, could have saved the country from the horrors of a famine, 
such as then desolated the Nizam s country, and such as had in former seasons, 
not so bad, desolated' the' Ceded Districts. ^’ The rice here, in June 1804, was 
eight seers per rupee, while on the opposite side of the Krishna, at the distance 
of only 30 miles, it was five seers. The soil and produce of Adorn, m the British 
territory, and of R&ichoor. in that of the Nizam, are nearly the same, aM they 
are only separated by the Krishna ; yet ih Raichoor there was a famine, Whenin 




CEDED DISTRICTS. 


329 

Adorn there was only a scarcity, and both were equally protected by the army 
under General Campbell. In 1805, a great increase of revenue took place in con- 
sequence of a favourable season following the two preceding years of dearth, 
and ever since, these districts have greatly improved, notwithstanding the recur- 
rence of bad seasons and other serious obstacles from a turbulent population. 

The Ceded Districts when obtained in 1800, were placed under Colonel 
Thomas Munro, and were valued in the deed of cession at 1,651,545 star pago- 
das, including all heads of revenue. The collector, in the tirst instance, fixed his 
rents at a rate much below what had been the former demand, increasing it only 
as the means of the cultivator, and the state of the country improved. In the 
course of seven years, the land revenues alone increased from 1,006,593 to 
1,517,272 pagodas, and under the able management of Colonel Munro, the in- 
habitants of the province, from disunited hordes of lawless freebooters, became 
as far advanced in civilization, submission to the laws, and obedience to the ma- 
gistrates, as any other subjects under the Madras presidency. In 1817, the total 
gross collection of the two districts (Bellary and Cuddapah) into which this 
province was divided amounted to 1,740,304 pagodas. 

In 1806, after the survey of the province was completed, instructions were 
circulated to make out new returns of the number of inhabitants in every village, 
as far as was practicable by actual muster, except with those castes who seclude 
their women from public view. The total number of inhabitants according to 
the lists returned, amounted to 1,917,376, which shewed an increase of one- 
fourth of the population in five years of tranquillity, partly arising from the re- 
turn of persons wno had emigrated during the Nizam’s domination ; but the re- 
mainder must be attributed to the falsity of former returns. These records of the 
population tended to prove that the males exceeded the females in number one- 
tenth. The number of cattle and sheep could not be ascertained with the same 
accuracy, not only because the owners are averse to giving true reports,' but also 
because herds and flocks more frequently migrate from one part of the country 
to another for the sake of pasture, and many herds are actually wild. The num- 
ber of black cattle in 1806 was estimated at 1,198,613; buffaloes, 493,906 ; 
sheep, 1,147,492 ; and goats, 694,633. The actual number of the two last was 
probably more, as their owners have a superstitious prejudice against their being 
counted by others, or even by themselves, and it is therefore more difficult to 
obtain correct statements of them than of the larger cattle. 

Within the limits of this province, districts are subdivided into villages under 
the direction of Potails or head farmers, by whom the peasantry are guided. 
In all villages the latter are in the habit of meeting and debating on the subject 
of rent, and there are many villages where they settle among themselves the 

vot. ii. u u 



330 THE BALAGHAUT 

exact proportion of the whole rent that each individual ia to pay. Huy are 
called veespuddi, or sixteenth villages, from the land rent being divided into six- 
teenth shares. A great part of the Cuddapah district is composed of these sort 
of villages, tad they are scattered, though more thinly, over other parts of the 
country. When the season of cultivation draws near, the cultivators of the 
veespuddi villages assemble to regulate their several rents for the year. The pa- 
goda is usually the place chosen for this purpose, from the idea that its sanctity 
will render their engagements with each other more binding; every village being 
in this manner a small collectorate, conducted by the Potail or head former. 
This quarter of Hiudostan having been brought under subjection to the Mahom- 
medans at a late period, and never thoroughly subdued or settled, a very great 
proportion of the natives are of the Brahminical persuasion ; but in the larger 
places, such as Cuddapah, Bellary, Adoni, and Curnoul, many Mahommedans 
are to be found. That the courts of justice in the Ceded Districts have but few 
causes, is partly accounted for by their poverty. 

Indigo b here raised and exported in considerable quantities, and the coarse 
sugar manufactory is also on the increase. Cotton is one of the chief produc- 
tions, which, although it at first languished, is now rapidly on the increase, the 
peasantry generally being a very industrious race, and most of them cultivators 
by caste. Diamond mines are found in many parts of the Ceded Dhtricts, es- 
pecially in the eastern and central divisions. In the Chinoorpollam, not far from 
Cuddapah, there are two places named Condapetta and Ovalumpally, where 
these gems are found, and in the next talook, at Lamdoor and Pinchetgapadoo, 
as also in the Gooty division. All the diamond mines in this part of India, with 
a very few exceptions, lie between the Krishna and Pennar rivers, from which 
tract the famous Golconda diamonds were procured, the country so called not 
producing any. 

In remote times this province formed part of the last existing Hindoo empire 
of Bijanagur, to which article die reader is referred for some historical particu- 
lars. A great proportion of the modern Poligars claim descent from the. officers 
of the Bijanagur dynasties, and some direct from the royal fomily. After the 
foil of the Mogul emperors of Delhi, it contained several small independent 
states, particularly the Patan Nabobs of Adoni and Cuddapah, and Buffered en- 
croachments from the Curturs, or chiefs , of Mysore. It was mostly conquered 
by Hyder, between 1766 and 1780, and in 1800 was, by treaty with dm Nizam, 
transferred to the British government. In a political and military point of view, 
these districts are at present of great value, for they are now what the Carnatic 
formerly was, the countries from which our armies in the Deccan must draw all 
their supplies of cattle and provisions. While under the Nizam.their revenues 



bzllary.] CEDED DISTRICTS. 331 

declined every year, and an army was constantly in the field, the expense of 
which consumed the collections ; indeed, the country was then in such a dis- 
tracted state, that the Nizam seemed to have given it. up to the Company because 
be could not retain it in subjection. — (Thackeray, Sir Thomas Munro, 5th Report, 
Hodgson, Remtell, c, Syc.) 

Bellamy District. — This revenue and judicial subdivision of the Balaghaut 
territories, ceded by the Nizam in A. D. 1800, occupies the western section of 
rite province, but its limits have not yet been defined with sufficient accuracy. 
Besides the lands attached to Bellary, it comprehends Harponelly, Adoni. 
Raidroog, Gooty and Curnoul, under which heads respectively, further details 
will be found, and for a general view of the country, the reader is referred to the 
preceding article. The principal towns are Bellary, Bijanagur, Harponelly, 
Adoni, Gooty, and Curnoul; the chief rivers the Krishna, Toombudra, and 
Vadavati. In 1817, the total gross collection of the public revenue was as 


follows : — 

Land revenue 814,972 pagodas. 

Salt 

Land customs 75,333 

Exclusive sale of spirits (abkarry) 80,357 

Sundry small branches of revenue 2,171 

Stamps 8,386 


Total . . 981,221 

1 

In 1815, the Madras government granted a remission -of 2092 pagodas to the 
inhabitants, on account of injury done to their crops by the march of his high- 
ness the Peshwa through the district, during his pilgrimage to the Pagoda of 
Soondoor. This, however, was not the whole loss sustained by the inhabitants, 
who happened to reside within the tract of these locusts, who had, besides, 
plundered them of their forage, poultry, and various other articles. — ( Hodgson, 
Chaplin, S;c. 6$c. §c.) 

Bxllary ( Valahari ). — A hill fort with a fortified pettah, near to which is fixed 
the head-quarters and cantonments of a military division. Lat. 15° 5' N. long. 
76* 50' E. The ancestors of the Bellary Poligars held the office of Dewan, under 
the Rayeels of Annagoondy, and acquired several Zemindaries. His descendants 
paid tribute to the Bejapoor sovereigns, and afterwards to Aurengzebe. In 1775 
Hyder took Bellary, when the Poligar made his escape. He returned and levied 
contributions in 1791, but was driven out the year following, and is since dead. ‘ 
With him the family became extinct, although several pretenders afterwards ap- 
peared. . The lower fort at this place is considered by competent judges to be 

v v 2 



332 THE BALAGHAUT [soowdook. 

stronger than that at Gooty. — ( Sir Thomas Munro , 12 th Register, Sir Samuel 

Auch mu ty, tyc.) 

Harponelly.— A district in the Ceded Territories, bounded on the north and 
west by the' Toombuddra river. The town of Harponelly stands in lat. 14°44'N. 
long. 76° S' E. 61 miles W. S. W. from Bellary. The country here is not so hilly 
as further east, but there are some strong positions, the principal of which is 
Oochinadroog. The villages are of frequent occurrence and tolerably well 
peopled. 

The Raja of Harponelly continued nearly independent until 1774', when his 
principality was conquered by Hyder, and added to his dominions as a tributary 
appendage. In 1786, Tippoo completely subdued the province, and sent the 
Raja prisoner to Seringapatam. On the fall of Seringapatam, the heir took pos- 
session of Harponelly, and is now a Jaghiredar under the Company. It is sup- 
posed he had no just claim to the estate, but that he was merely a boy set 
up by the Brahmins, who held the principal offices under the former Rajas, to 
perpetuate the management of affairs in their own hands. In this manner Rajas 
and Zemindars are created everywhere in the Company’s dominions, because 
the chief native servants, in order to secure their own situations, which are ge- 
nerally hereditary, whenever the line is extinct, take care to bring forward a 
child from some quarter. In 1817, a party of Maharatta and Pindary horse 
made a sudden irruption into the Ceded Districts and Mysore province, and 
succeeded in sacking the town of Harponelly, and carrying off some public 
treasure. — ( Sir T. Munro , Moor , §c. <%c.) 

Oochinadroog (Ujayini Durga). — A strong hill fort in the Ceded Districts, 
division of Harponelly. Lat. 14° 32' N. long. 76° 10' E. This fortress is situated 
about 12 miles to the eastward of Hurryhur, and has the appearance of great 
strength, being of considerable height, unconnected and abrupt, especially tc the 
northward and westward, where it is almost perpendicular. — ( Moor , 8$c.) 

Soon door. — The valley or district of Soondoor is situated within 25 miles of 
Bellary, and although in the centre of the districts ceded to the British govern- 
ment by the Nizam, in 1814 was in direct subjection to the Peshwa. The 
fortress is strong, and insulated by a chain of hills, through which there is a 
pathway leading from the Company’s territories to the Pagoda, which stands on 
the top of the southern extremity of the Soondoor hills. It belongs to the 
family of Jeswunt Row Gorepara, whoTWas formerly ambassador from Sindia, 
and now receives a pension from the British government. It was first brought 
under the Peshwa’s notice by a dispute between that chief and his brother 
Cundee Row, the latter having obtained possession of the fort. Jeswunt Row 
being patronized by the Peshwa* levied a force and attacked the fort, but the 



CEDED DISTRICTS 


SOONDOOR.] 


333 


siege lasted so long and occasioned so much disturbance in the Company's dis- 
tricts, that General Close at last persuaded the Peshwa to recal Jeswunt Row, 
and give him another jaghire in lieu of Soondoor. This arrangement was acqui- 
esced in by Jeswunt Row, but Cundee Row refused to surrender the fort, even 
to the Peshwa; neither, in fact, did his highness assign any other jaghire to 
Jeswunt Row. With the view, however, of getting the place for himself, the 
Peshwa assembled an army with all the slowness and procrastination for which 
his government was so celebrated ; and to the British authorities it appeared 
preferable that the fort of Soondoor should be immediately under the Peshwa’s 
jurisdiction, than that it should be held by a rebellious jaghiredar. On the other 
hand, there was every reason to believe that the Peshwa s siege would turn out 
a slovenly blockade, which might last for years, to the great detriment of the 
Ceded Districts, and which would in all likelihood terminate at last in an appeal 
for assistance to the British government. 

Soondoor has always been held in high estimation by the Peshwa as a place of 
pilgrimage. In 1807 he paid a visit to the temple of Cartic Swamy here (the 
Hindoo Mars), accompanied by a crowd of followers amounting to 25,000 per- 
sons, of which number his own troops composed only 4525. This multitude 
originated from its having been joined by a host of Maharatta pilgrims and other 
persons, who happened at that time to be returning from paying their devotions 
at Tripetty, and who committed great devastation in the Company’s territories, 
which enormities were as usual, much exaggerated by the sufferers, with the view 
of obtaining a remission of revenue, but in this they were disappointed. In 
1815, the Peshwa performed another pilgrimage to the same temple, without sus- 
taining any molestation from the Zemindar of Soondoor, although in rebellion 
against his highness ; but, notwithstanding former experience, the same irregu- 
larities took place as had been perpetrated during his visit in 1807. Previous ti. 
his crossing the Toombudra, the collector of Bellary requested, that, agreeably 
to a promise made to the ambassador at Poona, he would leave the bulk of his 
troops on the opposite side of the river, and trust himself to the British escort. 
To this proposal he partly assented, and engaged to leave two-thirds of them 
behind him; but when he began to cross, the river being fordable, it was utterly 
impossible to restrict their numbers, so that contrary to his highness’s engage- 
ment, nearly the whole of his forces, amounting to 15,000 horse, and as many 
foot, with 17 guns of different calibres, 1000 camels, several elephants, and bul- 
locks innumerable, passed over into the Company’s territories. Nor did the evil 
end here, for along with these came above 50,000 followers, mounted mostly on 
Tattod horses and bullocks, and the country being then covered with dry crops, 
die devastation committed was lamentable. At this time Soondoor was pos- 



334 THE BALAGHACT [aAinaooc, 

sessed by Sewa Row, the son ofCundee Row Gorepara, who was t ham im- 
prisoned at Poona, and it was subsequently discovered that the whole pilgrimage 
was merely a cloak to conceal the Peshwa’s intention to obtain possession of 
Soondoor by force. — ( Chaplain , Elphinstone , 8$c. §c.) 

Adoni ( Adavani ). — A 'district yn the Balaghaut Ceded Territories, bounded on 
the north by the Toombudra, and intersected by the Hoggry or Vadavati river. 
The chief towns are Adoni, Chagee, and Gooroor. On the 12th of October, 
1800, this district, along with the tract of country situated south of the Toom- 
budra and Krishna rivers, was ceded to the British government by the Nizam, 
and on the subsequent arrangements* taking place, was attached to the Bellary 
collectorship. — ( 5/A Report , $c.) 

Adoni. — The capital of the above division, situated in lat. 15° 35' N. long. 
77° 45' E. 38 miles N. by E. from Bellary. This city was taken in 1568 by Ali 
Adil Shah, of Bejapoor, at which period it stood on the top of a high hill, and 
contained within its walls many tanks and fountains of pure water, with nume- 
rous princely structures. The Rajas of Bijanagur, to whom it previously be- 
longed, considered it impregnable and an asylum for their families in desperate 
emergencies ; but they lost ¥% With their empire, after the great battle fought 
with the Deccany Mahommedan sovereigns in 1564. For a short time during 
the 18th century, it was the- capital of a small independent Patan principality, 
and afterwards became the jaghire and residence of Bazalet Jung, brother to the 
late Nizam Ali. In 1787, it was besieged, taken, and destroyed, by Tippoo, 
and in 1800, along with the district, was ceded to the British nation by the Ni- 
zam. It is now a town of very little consequence, and contains but a scanty 
population. Travelling distance from Seringapatam, 243 miles ; from Madras, 
310; from Hyderabad, 175; and from Calcutta, 1030 miles. — ( Ferishta , 12/A 
Register , 5/A Report , Renncll, §c.) 

Chagee. — A town in the Balaghaut Ceded Districts, 21 miles N. W . from 
Adoni. Lat. 15° 49' N. long.V 4' E. 

Camlapooh.— A town in the Balaghaut Ceded Districts, 20 miles N. W. from 
Bellary. Lat. 15* 11' N. long. 76° 48' E. 

Aaidrooo (Raya Durga).-r-A small district in the Balaghaut Ceded Tori* 
tories, situated betweeb the 14th and 15 degrees of north latitude. Tim chief 
river is the Vadavati, which m different parts of its course is also named the 
Hajiny and Hoggry ; the principal towns hre Raidroog, Calliandroog, and Mul- 
kamaroo. The family of Raidroog is descended from the Dalawai, or heredi- 
tary prime minister of the Bijanagur empire, who on the dissolution of that stele 
seised on Pennaconda and Condrippy. Under Aurengzebe he obtained or seized 
" additional villages. In 1766, the district was subdued by Hyder, and in 1786. 



coo-nr.] CEDED DISf JHCTS. 335 

the Poligar was seized by Tippoo and sent to Seringatam, where he died a vio- 
lent death. His son and successor, Vincatuppy Naik, was killed in 1791, while 
attempting to escape from Bangalore. At the ‘peace t>f 1792, this district was 
transferred to the Nizam ; and in 1799, Gopaul Naik, a descendant by the fe- 
male line, attempting to raise disturbances, was sent prisoner to Hyderabad. 
In 1800 , in consequence of arrangements with the Nizam, this district was ceded 
to the Company, from whom the Poligar s family receive k pension. — (Sir 
Thomas Munro, $c.) 

Raidroog. — The capital of the preceding district, situated in lat. 14° 40' N. 
long. 76° 56' E. 29 miles south from Bellary. This place stands about 40 miles 
north of Chitteldroog. The intervening country is fertile, with very few hills 
of magnitude, and no river of considerable size. About 1790, the Mahkrattas 
obtained possession of Raidroog, having bribed Tippoo’s governor with 60,000 
rupees. Travelling distance from Hyderabad, 232 miles. — ( Moor , Remiell, 8$c.) 

Calliandeoog ( Calyanadtfrga ). — A town in the Balaghaut Ceded Territories, 
42 miles S; by E. from Bellary. Lat. 14° 32' N. long. 77® 13' E. 

Ramdroog (Ramadurga). — A town in the Balaghaut Ceded Districts, 43 
miles S. E. from Bellary. Lat. 14° 44' N. long. 77°. 31' E. 

Gooty ( Guti ). — A district in the Balaghaut Ceded Territories, situated prin- 
cipally between the 15th and 16th degrees of north latitude. Besides Gooty, 
the capital, there is no town of note, nor any stream of magnitude except the 
Pennar. Gooty is first mentioned as a district during the reign of AurengZebe, 
when it formed 'part of a small state held by the predecessors of the Shahnoor 
family, who were dispossessed in 1758 by the Maharatta partizan chief, Morari 
Row. In the course of the three years war between Hyder and the Maharattas, 
from 1776 to 1779, the province of Goety was conquered by the former, and 
the Raja (who was never afterwards heard of) carried away prisoner. With the 
rest of the Balaghaut it was ceded by the Nizam to the Company in 1800, and 
now forms part of the collectorship of Bellary. 

Gooty. — A strong fortress in the Balaghaut Ceded Territories, and for some; 
time the capital of a petty Maharatta state. Lat. 15° 8' N. long. 77° 42' E. 44 
miles east from Bellary. The fort of Gooty is composed of a number of strong 4 
works, occupying the summits of a circular cluster of rocky hills connected 
with each other, and enclosing a space of level ground, the site of the town, 
which is approached from the plain by two breaks or openings farming fortified 
gateways, to the south-west and north-west, and by two foot-paths across the 
lower hills communicating through small sally ports. An immense smooth rock 
rising from the northern limit of the circle, and fortified by gradations; ascended 
through fourteen gateways, overlooks and commands the whole of the other 



336 THE BALAGHAUT [cusirout. 

works, forming a citadel, which with a tolerable garrison may be considered 
nearly impregnable. The Gooty mountain is composed of sienite, in which red 
feltspar prevails. The extreme height of Gootydroog above the sea has been 
ascertained to be 2171 feet, but notwithstanding this elevation, the heat here, 
during the months of April and May, is intense. The mean height of the flat 
country extending round Gooty and Bellary, is 1182 feet above the level of the 
sea, and from this plain the hills and mountains rise like islands from the sea. 
Travelling distance from Seringapatam, 228 miles ; from Madras, 269 ; and from 
Hyderabad, 178 miles. — (Wilks, Lambton , Rennell , 8$c.) 

Curnoul ( Candanur ). — A subdivision of the Balaghaut Ceded Districts, which 
formerly composed the territory of an independent Patan principality. It is 
bounded on the north by the Toombudra and Krishna rivers, in approaching 
which from the south the country becames more stony and rocky. Close to the 
last mentioned river and along its banks are hills, the more elevated of which 
were formerly fortified, and considered places of strength. The black cotton 
soil is the most prevalent, and the face of the country stony with much jungle, 
and many palmira trees. At Banaganpilly are diamond mines, which were for- 
merly productive. In modem maps this territory is named Ghazypoor. 

The chiefs of Curnoul, or ^s it is also named, Kummeer Nuggur, are of an 
ancient family of the Afghan nation, which originally served under the Bejapoor 
sovereigns, but afterwards held military appointments under the Emperor Shah 
Jehan. The jaghire of Curnoul was conferred about A. D. 1651, by Aureqg- 
zebe, then governor of the imperial territories in the Deccan on Khizzer Khan* 
a lineal ancestor of the present Nabob. Prior to this, the district formed ^part 
of the Bijanagur possessions. Khizzer Khan was assassinated by his son Daoud 
Khan Punnee, who being slain in battle in 1715, his body was dragged ai'the 
tail of an elephant round the city of Boorhanpoor. Leaving no issue, his brothers 
Ibrahim Khan and Ali Khan ruled jointly for six years, and were succeeded by 
the son of the latter, named Ibrahim Khan, who rebuilt and strengthened the 
fort of Curnoul, and after reigning 14 years was succeeded by his son Alif Khan.* 
This person filled the throne 16 years, and was succeeded by his eldest son 
Himmut Bahadur Khan; all under the authority of the Nizam. In 1750, 
Himmut Bahadur accompanied Nassir Jung on his expedition to the Carnatic, 
where in correspondence with M. Dupleix, he confederated with the Nabobs of 
Cuddapah and Shahnoor, and betrayed the cause of Nassir Jung, who was slain 
by the Cuddapah chief in the battle of Ginjee. Himmut Bahadur being soon 
after slain in a skirmish, was succeeded by Munawar Khan, the father of the 
late chief Alif Khan. 

Sometime after his accession, the Nizam, Salabut Jung, detached a force to 



CEDED DISTRICTS. 


CURNOUL.] 


337 


assume the Curnoul territory ; but a compromise in money taking place, Muna- 
war Khan was confirmed in the possession of the jaghire, which he quietly oc- 
cupied until the arrival of Hyder from Mysore, who levied a contribution of one 
lack of rupees. In 1790, Munawar Khan sent a party of horse under the com- 
mand of his third son, Alif Khan, along with the Nizams army, to join Lord 
Cornwallis at Seringapatam. On their return in the same year, Munawar Khan 
died, after holding the chiefship 40 years, and was succeeded under the sanction 
of the Nizam, by Alif Khan, who took advantage of the absence of his two older 
brothers to seize the jaghire, in the possession of which he subsequently main- 
tained himself. On the transfer of the country in 1 800, the rights of sovereignty 
exercised by the Soubahdar of the Deccan, became vested in the British go- 
vernment, and these feudal obligations were observed by the Nabob with great 
accuracy and precision. His administration in other respects, however, appears 
to have been singularly defective, for in 1813, his territories exhibited a most 
woeful picture of desolation and misrule. The soil is in general a rich black 
mould, capable of being rendered very productive ; but in 1813, it had nearly 
returned to a state of nature, the surface being almost covered with weeds and 
jungle, occasionally diversified by a cultivated field in the immediate vicinity of 
a wretched village, while the revenue system was so extortionary, that it was 
surprising the scanty population did uot wholly abandon the territory. One 
farmer of the revenue was removed to make way for another in rapid succession, 
each endeavouring to make the most of his precarious authority while it lasted. 
If any village shewed the slightest symptoms of prosperity, it was surrounded 
by a party of horse, which not only levied contributions, but quartered on it a 
rapacious officer and party from their own number, besides which the govern- 
ment anticipated the revenue due from it until nothing further remained to be 
extorted ; it was then left unmolested until judged ripe for a second pillage. 

Many of these evils arose from the subdivision of the country into a number 
df petty jaghircs, assigned by anticipation to the Nabobs creditors, and also 
from the vexatious management of the lands under the Nabob s own superin- 
tendance. The resources of Curnoul, during the reign of the late Alif Khan & 
father, were estimated at 20 lacks of rupees per annum ; but the collections so 
gradually declined, that in 1813 they were under ten lacks. At the date last 
mentioned, the whole territory of Curnoul contained 636 principal villages. 
The duties on consumption or on merchandize passing through the country, 
amounted to 113,623 rupees, to which must be added 18,000 rupees, the collec- 
tions from the pilgrims who visit the celebrated pagoda of Parvati, situated on 
the north-eastern extremity of the Nabob’s territory ; and the taxes, or spiri- 
tuous liquors, and similar articles; amounting to 44,000 rupees. The adminis- 

VOL.II. x x 



338 THE BALAGHAUT [cuknoul. 

tration of justice was so wholly neglected, that there was not even any ostensi- 
ble tribunal for its distribution, and the Nabob for a great part of the year was 
invisible. The consequence was that the Patans perpetrated the greatest enor- 
mities in the town and country, committing assassinations in both with impunity, 
while on account of debts contracted at usurious interest, the Nabob dared not 
move out of the fort without an armed force to protect him from the assaults of 
his creditors ; large corps of whom were seen performing unavailing dlierna at 
his gate. So unprincipled are the Patans in general, and so imeterate was the 
animosity subsisting between the young chief and his father, that it was re- 
ported each of them employed persons to offer up prayers for the destruction j 
of the other. ^ 

The chiefship having been held for 150 years by a tenure in a considerable \ 

degree independent of any external controul, although always subject to tribu- 1 

tary and feudatory obligations, the British government long withheld its inter- 
ference ; but affairs at length attained such a pitch of wretchedness and anarchy, 
and the Nabob having issued a declaration proclaiming his younger son for his 
successor, its interposition became necessary to maintain the legitimate succes- 
sion, as well as to restrain the excesses of the Nabob’s own troops, an ill-armed, 
ill-paid, and mutinous rabble. These, through the conciliatory recommenda- 
tion of the Madras presidency, he was persuaded to disband, and soon after 
w r as induced formally to repeal his declaration in favour of his youngest son 
Muzuffer Khan, who, nevertheless, on his father’s death in 1815, usurped the 
throne and obtained possession of the city. He was, however, soon expelled 
fr^m both by a detachment of Madras troops, they were transferred to the 
present Nabob Munawar Khan, who found himself utterly overwhelmed by the 
magnitude of the debts left unpaid by his father. By the payment of small 
sums and promises of service, he managed to cancel bonds to the enormous 
amount of 40 lacks of rupees, but there still remained 50 lacks of claims that 
had not been brought forward. — (Chaplin, Marriott , Orme, 5th Report , Renmll , 
tic. Afc.J 

Curnoul. — The capital of the preceding principality, situated on the south 
side of the Toombudra. Lat. 15° 44' N. long, 78° 2' E. The fort is protected 
by the river Hinday (in December almost dry) and the Toombudra, with a 
width of from 7 to 800 yards on all sides, while the western side is strongly for- 
tified, three of the bastions being 50 feet in height, and covered to the parapets 
of the curtain by a steep glacis. The interior is almost entirely covered with 
houses, except along the western face, where the ground has been excavated for 
the purpose of obtaining stones for building. In 1816, the number of these houses 
amounted to 1338, of which 312 were inhabited, 100 unoccupied, and the re- 



belemcheroo.] CEDED DISTRICTS. 339 

mainder abandoned and falling to pieces. These houses are constructed of stone 
and mud, with mud tetraces, but are very ill built, the apartments being small, 
and every house surrounded by a stone wall from 8 to 18 feet high, which im- 
pedes the circulation of the air. Towards the south of the fort is the pettali, 
which is of considerable extent, and contains a numerous population. The 
P&tans here exhibit their ancient manners and fanaticism in considerable perfec- 
tion, as they make a merit of being ignorant of every thing except horsemanship 
and the use of arms, and consider all other acquirements effeminate. The late 
Nabob Alif Khan not unfrequently visited the shrine of Miskeen Shah, the 
ancient spiritual director of his family. On these occasions he walked in pro- 
cession barefoot from the fort to the mausoleum, a distance of a mile, carrying 
on his shoulders a leather bag filled with sherbet, which he distributed to the 
mob of religious mendicants and ragamuffins, who followed him with shouts of 
approbation. 

The fortress of Curnoul was given in jaghire to the ancestors of the present 
Nabob, and from its great strength, natural and artificial, had never since that 
time been taken by any native power. Hyder and Tippoo in the zenith of their 
glory were content to levy a tribute by temporary incursions into the territory, 
but never attempted to assail the fort. This circumstance had given Muzuffer 
Khan (who usurped the principality in 1815) an idea that it was impregnable, 
and that having possession of so formidable a post authorized him to exact any 
conditions. It was then estimated to contain within the fort and pettah 4000 
men of all descriptions. In consequence of his refusal to yield the place to the 
legitimate heir Munawar Khan, it was besieged in form by a British detach- 
ment; the batteries were opened on the 14th December, 1815, and next day the 
fortress was surrendered at discretion, and taken possession of without the loss 
of a man. This early surrender was attributed to the effect of the shells among 
the horse, amounting to about 600, the personal property of the chiefs, who, 
owing to the precautions taken, and to the Toombudra’s being unfordable, could 
not make their escape. 

Travelling distance from Hyderabad, 127 miles; from Madras, 279; and from 
Seringapatam, 279 miles . — ( Colonel Marriott , Colonel Thompson , Orme> Rcnnell , 
#c. Sic.) 

Goodoor. — A town in the Balaghaut Ceded Districts, 17 miles W. S. W. from 
Camoul. Lat. 15° 40' N. long. 77° 47' E. 

Belemcheroo. — A small fortress in the Balaghaut Ceded Districts of a com- 
pact form, and situated on an eminence about 50 miles N. E. of Gooty. It is 
surrounded by a ditch, and is supposed to be as defensible as Camoul. The other 

x x 2 



340 THE BALAGHAUT [ncsdeal. 

fortresses in the Curnoul territories are Yerragoontha, Ghunnee, Palem, and 
Kingulee. — ( Chaplin , fyc, 8$c.) 

Mooriconda. — A village in the Curnoul territories, situated on the south 
side of the Krishna, 110 miles N. by W, from Cuddapah. Lat. 15° 57' N. long. 
78° 13' E. This place is at present much reduced, but appears from the ruins 
remaining to have been at some period a place of greater importance. At pre- 
sent the fort is deserted, and the inhabitants subsist mostly by conveying pas- 
sengers across the Krishna, which is done in large circular flat baskets covered 
with hides. The bed of the river here is a fine white sand, in majiy places so 
impeded by rocks, that nothing but a pliant basket could effect the passage. 
Six miles above Mooriconda is the junction of the Toombudra with the Krishna, 
which, like other junctions, or prayagas, is by the Hindoos esteemed of great 
sanctity. The waters of the Krishna are here remarkably sweet and clear, and 
are said to be greatly improved by those of the Toombudra, which are reckoned 
of a superior quality. In this place are many small places of Hindoo worship, 
which scarcely deserve the name of temples. — ( Heyne , 8$c.) 

Perwuttum (Parvatam, the mountain ). — This place is situated on the south 
side of the Krishna river, at the north-western extremity of the Curnoul territory, 
83 miles S. by E. from Hyderabad. Lat. 16° 12' N. long. 78° 5' E. The sur- 
rounding country is a wild tract, almost uninhabited except by Chinsuars. The 
rock of this neighbourhood is granite, in which the red colour predominates. 
Diamonds are found in this mountainous region, but the labour of procuring 
them is so great, and the chance of meeting with the veins so uncertain, that the 
digging for them has been long discontinued. 

Here is a remarkable pagoda dedicated to a deity whom the attendant Brah- 
mins call Mallecarjee, in the shewing of whom a great deal of mystery is observed. 
He is generally exhibited in the back part of the building, by the reflected light 
of a brass speculum, and of course can only be seen as the flashes fell on him. 
The idol is probably nothing more than the lingam so much reverenced by the 
votaries of Siva. The revenues accruing from the resort of pilgrims are collected 
by a manager, who resides within the enclosure. There is a goddess also wor- 
shipped here named Brahma Rumbo. The several pagodas, choultries, courts, 
&c. are enclosed by a wall 660 feet long, by 510 broad, the walls of which are 
covered by an infinite variety of sculpture. — ( Mackenzie, 8$c.) 

Nundeal ( or Ghazypoor ). — A large and populous place, surrounded by a 
mud wall, and possessing also a mud fort. A s'naall river which runs on the 
north side supplies the inhabitants with water for irrigation and common uses. 
Lat. 15° 23' N. long. 78° 37' E. 67 miles N. N. W. from Cuddapah.— ('i%ne, &.) 



cuddavah.] CEDED DISTRICTS. 341 

Banaganapilly. — This town stands at the northern extremity of the Cur- 
noul plain, which commences at the southern range of hills near Cuddapah. 
Lat. 15° 18' N. long. 78° 18' E. The village of Banaganapilly is built at the 
foot of a low range of hills, where the diamond mines are situated The sur- 
rounding country which is sandy, stony, and barren, rises gently from the river 
Pennar to within a few miles of Banaganapilly. — (Heyne, §c.) 

THE DISTRICT OF CUDDAPAH (Cripa \) m 

This is the second large division of the Balaghaut territories, ceded by the 
Nizam in A. D. 1800, under which head further details on statistical subjects will 
be found, the particulars noted here being ^uch as have reference more immedi- 
ately to the western portion of the province. The country from the town of 
Cuddapah approaching the Krishna is nearly a level, the ascent being rather 
towards* that river. Although the surface generally be considered elevated 
above that of the sea coast, the heat here during the months of April and May 
is excessive, the mountains then appearing to glow with fire. The rains set in 
sooner here tha in Mysore, but it happens not unfrequently that the district is 
visited with a drought, as was the case in 1807, when many thousand head of 
draught cattle perished for want of sustenance. The great monsoon rains occur 
here as on the Coromandel coast, and during their prevalence the country is nearly 
impassable from the softness of the soil. In the months of April and May there 
are frequent heavy thunderstorms, the coruscations of which are extremely 
Vivid, and the explosions loud. The chief river is the Pennar, and the principal 
geographical subdivisions of the country are — 

1. Cuddapah, 4. Cummum, 6. Gurrumcondah, 

2. Sidout, 5. Dupaud, 7. Punganoor. 

3. Gandicotta, 

Throughout this district during the dry and hot season the water is brackish, 
but while the rains prevail it is sweet and good ; in particular places it has been 
remarked to continue good throughout the year. The well water in the low 
country, where the black cotton soil abounds, is always hard, on account of its 
passing through calcareous strata. Soda is most frequently found on. a red 
ferruginous soil, among the Pennaconda hills, and the eastern ranges which 
bound the district, the spots most productive of this alkali being for a consi- 
derable part of the year moist and swampy. They are also known by their 
barren aspect, and the black colour the mould exhibits in the morning. When 
purest, it is collected by the native washermen, and used by them instead of 
earth, from which cause it has received the name of washermen's earth. It Is 
common likewise on* the black cotton soil, where it is found mixed with a great 



342 THE BALAGHAUT. [cuddapah. 

proportion of common salt, which last is extracted by a set of people called 
tank diggers by Europeans, but by the natives saltmakers. Salt works of this 
description are found all over the Cuddapah district, the quantity consequently 
required from the Coromandel coast is inconsiderable. Saltpetre also abounds, 
and may be procured by a very simple process. The coco-nut palm is not cul- 
tivated in this part of India, nor is the common palmira often seen, the black 
cotton soil not being adapted for either of these trees. 

The diamond mines of Cuddapah are about seven miles N. E. of the town, on 
both banks of the Pennar river, which here washes the base of a range of hills 
expanding in several directions. The perpendicular height of the highest range 
is about 1000 feet above the level of the country, which is not greatly elevated 
above the sea. The diamond mines near the tewn of Cuddapah, are said to have 
been worked for several hundred years, and occasionally diamonds of a consider- 
able size have been found. These mines are surrounded by cultivated fields, 
and have the appearance of heaps of stones, and of pits half filled with rubbish. 
The diamonds are always found either in alluvial soil, or in rocks of the 
latest formation. In seeking for them the gravel is washed and spread out, after 
which the diamonds, generally very small ones, are discovered by the sparkle. 
The grounds are rented out by the collector at moderate rates to different specu- 
lators, who work them on their own account. When very large diamonds are 
found, which rarely happens, the government claims one-third of the value. In 
1817, the total gross collection of the public revenue in Cuddapah was as 


follows : 

Land revenue 685,701 pagodas. 

Salt 

Land customs 43,696 

Exclusive sale of spirits 20,679 

Sundry small branches of revenue 3,230 

Stamps 2,775 

Tobacco monopoly 


Total 759,083 

In 1811, the Madras Revenue Board Requested the sanction of government to 
the disbursement of 150 star pagodas, by the collector of Cuddapah, on account 
of Hindoo ceremonies to procure rain, to be performed at the different pagodas 
in that district. The object in sanctioning the performance of these ceremonies, 
was to inspire the people with confidence, and to encourage them to increased 
exertions in the processes of agriculture. — ( Heyne , Hodgson , Public MS* Docu- 
ments, <$c. fyc.) 



pexxar eiver.] CEDED DISTRICTS. 343 

Cubbapah. — The name of this city is sometimes written Kirpa, as well as 
Cuddapah ; but both are corruptions of the Sanscrit word cripa, which signifies 
mercy. Lat. 14° 32' N. long. 78° 54' E. It stands on the banks of the Cudda- 
pah river, which has its source in the hills to the south-east of the town, and 
has springs of fine water along its whole course. The palace where the Nabobs 
of Cuddapah formerly resided is still to be seen in a mud fort close to the pettah, 
at present converted into a court of justice. Within this fort the prison is also 
situated, and generally contains from C to 700 prisoners, condemned to work in 
irons for periods of from 1 to 14 years, according to the nature of their crimes, 
which most commonly are burglaries and highway robberies. Among the pri- 
soners are persons of all castes huddled together without distinction, yet here 
they follow strictly the precepts of their castes respecting diet, and pay great 
respect to the Brahmin felons, who, however depraved and criminal, are always 
treated with more lenity than the others by the prison attendants. The untried 
prisoners and debtors are kept separate, of the latter description there are very 
few ; indeed all sorts of felons and debtors are so well provided for, that their 
condition is envied by many of their acquaintance on the outside of the premises. 
Sentence of death is usually received with perfect unconcern, and the delinquent 
generally requests to be indulged with some tobacco and a good curry. These 
luxuries he appears to enjoy with great satisfaction, and after having finished his 
meal, washed his mouth, scrubbed his teeth, smoked some tobacco, and gone 
through certain trifling ceremonies, he proceeds to receive the execution of his 
sentence. 

Cuddapah was for many years the capital of an independent Patan state, 
which survived the destruction of the Deccanny kingdoms, and many old Patan 
families still remain, who speak the Hindostany dialect with remarkable purity. 
In the adjacent country large quantities of sugar and jagory are made, but it is 
not a place of much active commerce.. Travelling distance from Madras, 153 
miles ; from Seringapatam, 220 ; from Hyderabad, 230 miles. — ( Heyne, MSS. 
&>c. &>'c. tyc.) 

Pennar River. — The Pennar river rises among the Nundydroog hills in My- 
sore, where on account of its northerly course it is called the Uttara Pinakani. It 
receives a great part of its waters from the Pennaconda hills, after which it winds 
with a very shallow bed towards the Gandicotta hills, passing through a very 
narrow break in them. It then proceeds to the eastern ranges, which it enters 
about five miles above Cuddapah, from whence it flows through the Nellore dis- 
trict into the sea. The channel is generally sandy, but also rocky in many parts 
to the east and west of Gandicotta. In the hot season, where the stream is very 



344 THE BALAGHAUT [oaoticotta. 

low, the water is brackish, with a taste of lime ; and throughout Cuddapah it 
is usually so shallow, that there are few days it is not fordable . — ( Heyne, 8$c,) 

Door. — A village in the Cuddapah district, 29 miles N. W. from the town of 
Cuddajpah. Lat. 14° 48' N. >ng. 78° 43' E. Prior to the acquisition of this ter* 
ritory by the British government, this neighbourhood was greatly infested by 
robbers, who found refuge among the hills, and in the Cumoul country, and 
attacked large villages in the open day. These depredations, which originated 
from "a ruinous system of government, have since been altogether suppressed. 

Duraud. — A small subdivision of the Balaghaut Ceded Districts, situated at 
the north-eastern extremity towards Guntoor. It is traversed by the Grondegani 
river, but contains no town of note except Dupaud, which stands in lat. 15° 58^ 
N. long. 79° 23' E. 61 miles N. W. from Ongole. Within this tract copper ore\ 
of the best quality has been discovered. The place lies to the north of Cummum, 
and is in many respects more favourably situated than Colastry, as the adjacent 
hills have abundance of wood, and as the spot is on the route of the lamballies, 
or itinerant merchants, from the interior to the sea coast, who might barter their 
cotton for copper, which in the Nizam’s country is an article in great request. 
(Heyne, <§*c. 

Doornaul. — A town in the Balaghaut Ceded Districts, 74 miles N. W. from 
Ongole. Lat. 16° T N. long. 79* 9' E. 

Cummum.— -A hilly division of the Balaghaut-Ceded Territories, compre- 
hended in the district of Cuddapah, and situated between the 15th and 16th 
degrees of north latitude. It contains no river of magnitude, nor any remarkable 
town except Cummum, the capital, which stands in lat. 15° 37' N. long. 70° lCf 
E. 56 miles N. W. from Ongole. 

Cottacotta.— A town in the Balaghaut Ceded Territories, 56 miles N. from 
Cuddapah. Lat. 15° 21 N. long. 78° 54' E. 

Gandicotta (or Ganjicottti ). — A subdivision of the Balaghaut Ceded Terri- 
tories, situated about the 15th degree of north latitude. It is intersected by the 
Pennar river, which penetrates through a gap in the Gandicotta hills into the 
plain of Cuddapah. The break or chasm in these mountains, appears to have 
resulted from some violent convulsion of nature, as it is very narrow, and the 
opposite sides are almost perpendicular. On the southern precipice is the fort 
of Gandicotta, which has communicated its name to a range of hills, of a barren 
aspect, and almost destitute of treefe. The town and fort of Gandicotta are 
situated in lat. 14° 51' N. long. 78° 22' E. 43 miles N. W. from Cuddapah. It 
is at present a place of no importance, although formerly noted for its strength, 
and the vicinity of a diamond mine. In the immediate neighbourhood the. waters 



CEDED DISTRICTS. 


SfDOUT.] 


345 


of die Pennar are abstracted for die purposes of irrigation, being conducted to 
tbe fields in channels cut in various directions . — ( Heyne , Retmell , 8$c.) 

Smouf (S iddhavat). — A hilly district in the Balaghaut Ceded Territories, 
situated among the Eastern Ghauts between the 14th and 15th degrees of north 
latitude. Its surface is rocky and mountainous, but interspersed with fertile 
vallies, watered by perennial streams from the hills. It is also traversed in part 
by the river Pennar, the bed of which, during the hot and dry season, is planted 
with melons, which when ripe are sent to the Coromandel coast, where they 
are greatly esteemed. The best have rough skins, and are about the size of an 
apple. In this part of the British dominions, many of the Rajas, Poligars, and 
other native chiefs, have lost their estates since the sovereignty was transferred 
in 1800. Among these persons is the Chitiohel Raja, whose family was formerly 
in possession of the country from the neighbourhood of Sidout to the Balpally 
pass. The general language is the Telinga . — ( Heyne, Newnham, fyc.) 

Sidout, — The town of Sidout is situated in a valley, about 12 miles to the 
eastward of Cuddapah, and on the road to it there is a ghaut, and likewise a 
broad river (the Pennaur) to be passed, which last is at certain seasons of the 
year unfordable. Lat. 14° 30' N. long. 79° 2' E. On the south side of the 
river Pennaur, the range of hills extends along close to the bank ; and about one 
mile and a half distant from the northern face of the fort there runs a chain of 
mountains, which continues, with very little interruption, as far as Perwuttum, 
and into tbe Nizam’s territories. The river here at the driest season contains a 
small current, sufficient for the customary ablutions of the Hindoos,’ who have 
several small temples; and the gateways to the east and west are ornamented 
with stone choultries. 

The wdlls round the fort are of stone, high, and in a state of sufficient repair, 
and there is a rampart of some breadth all round the interior. The gateways to 
the westward remain open, but the one on the eastern side, beyond which is a 
modem work, said to have been erected by the French, has been built up* There 
is a good ditch round three sides, of the fort, which can be filled in the rainy sea- 
son, when the river is full. The; fortifications of Sidout are said to have been 
originally erected by the Matlawar or Chitiohel Rajas, and appear originally to 
have been a fortified pagoda, dedicated to Siddheswara Swami, but only frag- 
ments of the religious building fioW remain ; 1 It became the residence of the 
Nabobs of Cuddapah on their being threatened by the Mysore power, as besides 
the strength of the fort, (which is ho^veVer commanded by some of the neigh- 
bouring hills,) the country generally is of difficult access. The town surrounding 
the fort was then extensive, and it continued a populous and thriving place 
until the removal of the collector’s office to Cuddapah, which took place not long 
•Vypi* if*', ^ v 



346 THE BALAGHAUT [ponganoor. 

ago. Haleem Khan, the last Nabob of theMaive line, resided here, when Hyder 
took the fort, and carried the family of the Nabob into captivity. The town has 
the reputation of being healthily situated, and is rather a favourite residence with 
the natives. The tomb in the inner fort is held in great reverence by the Ma- 
hommedans, and both it and its mosque are favourable specimens of Mussulmaim 
architecture. — ( Netonham, 8$c.) 

Rachouty. — A town in the Balaghaut Ceded Districts, 27 miles south from 
Cuddapah. Lat. 14° 9' N. long. 78° 52' E. 

Gurrumcondau. — A hilly district, in the Balaghaut Ceded Territories, situ- 
ated between the 13th and 14 th degrees of north latitude, and at present com- 
prehended in the collectorate of Cuddapah. — This tract of country lies near the 
verge of the Eastern Ghauts, and presents a mountainous surface, rather thinty 
inhabited, but very productive under suitable cultivation. It is watered by many \ 
torrents from the hills, but has no river of magnitude. 

Gurrumcondah. — A strong hill fort, the capital of the preceding district, 
situated in lat. 13° 46' N. long. 78° 34' E. 130 miles N. W. from Madras; This 
fortress, in 1791, was besieged by the Nizam's army, assisted by a small British 
detachment, which stormed the lower fort without much loss, and was afterwards 
ordered south to join the grand army. A body of troops was left to garrison the 
lower fort, and blockade the upper, under the command of one of the Nizam's 
generals, who was soon afterwards attacked by Hyder Saheb, Tippoos eldest son, 
totally routed, and slain. After supplying the upper fort with necessaries, Hyder 
Saheb retired, having fully accomplished the object for which he had been de- 
tached. — ( MSS. %c.) 

Dalmacherry. — A town in the Balaghaut Ceded Districts, 100 miles N. W. 
from Madras. Lat. 13° 38' N. long. 78° 57' E. 

Punganoor (Punganur). — A fortified town, with a small district attached, 
two-thirds of which were acquired by the British government in 1799 . Lat. 13 ° 
2T N. long. 78° 3' E. 47 miles N. W. from Vellore. The pollam of Punganoor is 
divided into eight summuts, which contain 69 mauzahs, or large villages, and 676 
muzrahs, or dependant hamlets. This estate had been ten years under the ma- 
nagement of the collector; but in 1816, it was resolved by the Madras presidency, 
that the sum which had been collected during the above period, should constitute 
the basis of a permanent assessment. The gross collections of ten years amounted 
to 334,873 pagodas; the net land revenue, after deducting charges, to 21 1,876 
pagodas. The Punganoor pollam had been assumed to ascertain its value, not 
in consequence of any misconduct on the part of the Poligar; the value had 
been ascertained, the restoration of it, therefore, to his entire controul, became 
a measure of strict justice. Prior, however, to the carrying this transfer into exe- 



vuhgahooh.] CEDED DISTRICTS. 347 

co tfon, the villages were rented to their respective inhabitants for ten years, so 
that for the length of time specified the Poligar would be precluded from exacting 
more than the sums expressed in their several leases. The waste lands were 
comprehended in these leases, and during their existence made over to the in* 
habitants who rented the villages. 

In all the districts, throughout the Balaghaut Ceded Territories, which are 
distinguished as dry grain districts, the whole extent of land in each village not 
cultivated, and not occupied by hills, very thick jungle, or other obstructions, 
may be considered as waste capable of being reclaimed, and in such cases the 
waste must often greatly surpass in extent the quantity of land under cultivation 
during any specific year. But it appears chimerical, under the acknowledged 
poverty of the cultivators, and their destitution of capital, to calculate on any 
material addition to the land revenue, from high, unirrigated and very extensive 
wastes, which are certainly to be found in every district of India south of the 
Krishna. If, in the course of years, the increase of capital and population call 
for extended cultivation, it may then be seasonably effected, and the present 
assessment on the lands under tillage be rendered less burtliensome. In all dry 
grain districts.it is the practice of the cultivators to change their lands annually, 
or periodically, and to occupy fallow or waste, in order that the land which has 
been impoverished may recover its fertility by -remaining at rest. The custom 
of the native governments £too long followed by the British) was, to endeavour 
to create an increase of revenue by a forced cultivation, so that, while much land 
was under tillage, none was well cultivated. 

In India waste land is intrinsically of no value, except for pasturage in favour- 
able climates and situations, where it is possible to turn it to some account. 
Near a populous town it comes in demand for building purposes, or for the ap- 
propriation of an overflowing commercial capital, but in the provincial parts 
there exists little or no surplus stock or capital, which is the great deficit. In 
the course of the revenue transactions, it has been found, that, when individuals 
propose to occupy wastes, it is always for the sake of the profit expected to 
be realized during the first five or ten years, especially when it is proposed to 
clear jungle ground; and this apparent improvement is generally effected by 
abstracting stock and labour from land where it might have been more profita- 
bly applied. It is notorious also, that where the government is supportable, the 
peasantry seldom emigrate for the sake of occupying waste; otherwise the 
vicinity of Calcutta would not present the greatest extent of jungly wilderness 
(the Sunderbunds) in Hindostan. When cultivators do migrate from one district 
to another, it commonly proceeds, either from their being unable to pay their 
rents (being called on for old balances), or because that tract of country where 

y v 2 



348 BALAGHAUT CEDED DISTRICTS. [pcxoakoo*. 

they resided had suffered., either from sickness or from a long drought. The 
labouring agricultural classes will endure much distress before they migrate, and 
few can afford to abandon their old lands to cultivate waste, (unless it be wood- 
land newly cleared, and the clearing is expensive,) which is generally unpro- 
ductive for the first year or two, and is acknowledged to be, in every country, 
less productive than land under the usual coune of crops. 

If applications for lands came from emigrants from provinces not under the 
British government, or from particular persons not before cultivators, the 
settling of such persons on waste land would be an accession of so much stock 
to the district; but an emigration from one British province to another, would 
not increase the aggregate revenue, although in their new domicile they do 
settle on and cultivate waste lands. In fact, if an accurate balance could be 
struck, it is probable that the gain to the revenue, from the occupation of land 
actually waste throughout the south of India', would be found to be very incon- 
siderable . — ( Madras Revenue Board, C. R. Rrn, $c. §c.) 



THE PROVINCE OF MYSORE 

(u A HtS ASURA .) 


A lAROE province in the south of India, situated principally between the 11th 
and 15th decrees of north latitude, and surrounded by the -British territories 
under the Madras presidency. In length it may be estimated at 210 miles by 
140 the average breadth. The whole of this country is enclosed by the Eastern 
and Western Ghauts, and consists of a high table land nearly 3000 feet above 
the level of the sea, from which rise many lofty hills and clusters of hill«, 
containing the sources of almost all the rivers that intersect and fertilize the 
low countries. The elevation varies at different places ; at Peddanaik Durgum 
pass, barometrical observations gave 1907 feet, at Baitamangalum 243$, and at 
Bangalore 2807, at Hurryhur 1831, while the same mode of calculation assigns 
to Sivagunga, the highest mpuntain in Mysore, an altitude of 4600 feet. The 
descent proceeding northward is very perceptible. At Sera, on the high ground 
near to the Mahommedan mausoleum, the height is only about 2223 above' the 
level of the sea, which in a distance of 84 miles gives a declension of 584 feet. 
The climate in this elevated region is temperate and healthy to a degree unknown 
in any other tract of the like extent within the tropics. The monsoons or 
boisterous periodical rains, which at different times deluge the coasts of Coro* 
mandel and Malabar, have their force broken by the ghauts or mountains, and 
from either side extend to the interior ip frequent showers, which though some* 
times heavy are seldom of long continuance, and preserve both the temperature 
of the climate and -the verdure of the fields throughout the year. 

.To enter the Mysore country there are several passes, such as the Mugglee, 
the Palicaud, the Amboor, the Changama, and, the Attoor but these passes, 
while they facilitated the operations of Hyder, when invading the Carnatic from 
the Barramahal valley, were not attended with any similar advantages to the 
invaders of his country: for as the only roads practicable united in Palicaud, 
wh i c h leads to Oossoor, he had but one entrance from the Mysore territories to 
defied- The rock which forms the basis of this whole country is a kind of sienite, 
composed for die most part of four ingredients, quartz, feltspar, hornblende, and 



THE PROVINCE 


350 

mica. Common salt occurs in considerable abundance on the surface of the 
red soil, where it effloresces during the dry season. Carbonate of soda is also 
found, especially among the Chitteldroog hills, but considerably mixed with 
common salt. The principal rivers are the Cavery, the Toombudra, the Veda* 
vati, the'Bhadri, the Arkanati, the Pennar, Palar, and Panaur, but, except the 
Cavery, none of these rivers attain to any magnitude until they quit the limits 
of the province. There are no lakes in the northern parts of Mysore, but many 
large tanks and artificial reservoirs in the higher grounds. The water in these 
being rain water is always sweet, and is on that account preferred by the natives 
to that of wells, which is frequently brackish. 

The dominions of the Mysore Raja are at present divided into three great 
districts or subayenas, called the Patana (or Seringapatam), the Nagara (or 
Bednore), and the Chatracal (or Chitteldroog) subayenas. The Patana division 
is by far the largest, and contains alone a greater extent of territory than was 
originally subject to the Mysore Rajas family. It comprehends 91 subdivisions 
end was formerly under the immediate inspection of the Dewan or prime minis- 
ter. In addition to this territory, since his connexion with the British govern- 
ment, he has acquired the Chatracal subayena containing 13. and the Nagara 
containing 19 subdivisions, each of which is superintended by a Soubahdar. 
The chief towns are Seringapatam, Bangalore, Bednore, Chitteldroog, Sera. 

From the remainsof hedges, and other signs, the Mysore province appears at 
some remote period to have been in a much higher state of cultivation than it at 
present exhibits, although rapidly recovering. When land here is once brought 
into cultivation for rice, it is universally considered as having arrived at the 
highest possible degree of improvement, and all attempts to render it more pro- 
ductive by a succession of crops neglected as superfluous. Throughout India 
generally there are three modes of sowing the seed of rice, from which proceed 
three modes of cultivation. In the first way the seed is sown dry on the fields 
which are to bring it to maturity, this is called dry seed cultivation. In the 
second the seed is made to vegetate before it is sown, and the field when fitted to 
receive it is converted to a puddle, which is called sprouted cultivation. In the 
third kind of cultivation the seed is sown very thick in a small plot of ground, 
and when it has shot up a foot high the young rice is transplanted into the field 
where it is to ripen, which is called cultivating by transplantation. The higher 
fields are cultivated after the dry seed manner of sowing, the lower grounds are 
reserved for the sprouted and transplanted cultivations. These various modes of 
cultivating rice give the fanner a great advantage, as by dividing the labour over 
a great part of the year, fewer hands and less stock are required to till the same 
extent of ground, than if there were one seed time and one harvest • 



OF MYSORE. 351 

Besides rice the lands produce the following articles, the chicadu, the dodada, 
the phaseolus mungo, the dolichos catsjang, the sesamum orientale, and the sugar 
cane, for which a black clay is reckoned the best soil. The crop of raggy, or ey- 
nosurus corocanus, is by far the most important of any raised on the dry field, 
and supplies all the lower ranks of society with their common food. On the Coro- 
mandel coast it is the poorest classes alone that subsist on this species of grain ; 
but here it is the staff of life for the whole community. Wheat is cultivated in gar- 
dens, or in the rich soil of the beds of the tanks which have been exhausted for 
the purposes of irrigation, but the whole quantity raised is very small. The ri- 
cinus palma Christi is cultivated, and produces abundance of castor oil, which 
is used for the lamp, given to milch buffaloes, and for a variety of other purposes. 
In the sugar cultivation, the West Indian planters appear to have a decided ad- 
vantage over those of Hindostan in climate, soil, carriage, and skill, both in agri- 
culture and mechanics ; but the enormous price of labour compared with that of 
Hindostan brings them nearer to an equality. 

The betel leaf tree thrives best in low grounds where it can have a supply of 
water, which at particular seasons is raised from the reservoirs by machines 
called yatams. About Colar the poppy is cultivated both for making opium and 
on account of the seed, which is much used in the sweet cakes that are eaten by 
the higher ranks of the natives. Tobacco is not generally raised, and is reckoned 
inferior to that which comes from the low country. The coco-nut palm in this 
province begins to produce when seven or eight years old, and lives so long that 
its duration, among such bad chronologists as the natives, cannot readily be as- 
certained. The young trees of a good quality will give 100 nuts annually, and 
they come forward at all seasons of the year. In some parts of the country, to 
the south of Chitteldroog, clumps of these trees appear everywhere; and m 
several valliea are so numerous as to resemble forests. The success with which 
this palm is raised in the centre of Mysore, refutes the old opinion that it will 
only thrive on the sea coast, but it appears in every situation to require a soil 
impregnated with salt. The English use but one name for the juices of all the 
different palin trees of India, and call them toddy, which seems to be a corrup- 
tion of tari, the Mahommedan name for the juice of the palmira or borassus 
flabelliformis. The natives on the contrary have distinct names for each kind of 
juice, in the qualities of which there is a considerable difference. The grass 
roots are here of great length, and being very tenacious of life, sprout at every 
joint, and of course are difficult to remove. Owing also to the extreme imper- 
fection of their instruments, and want of strength in their cattle, the fields in 
Mysore are very imperfectly cleared. After six or eight ploughings in all 
directions, numerous small bushes remain as ereet as before the labour com- 



352 THE PROVINCE 

menced, while the plough has not penetrated three inches deep* The latter has 
neither coulter nor mould-board to divide and turn over the soil. In Mysore 
considerable attention is paid to the manuring of the soil. Every farmer collects 
a heap from the dung and litter of his cattle, intermixed with the ashes and soil 
of their houses ; but they do not employ the soil of towns. Two crops of rice 
are seldom taken from the same field in . one year. In some part& of Mysore the 
first quality of land will produce from 47 to 49 bushels, the second quality from 
35 to 42 ; and the third quality from 17 to 24 bushels of rice in the husk. It is 
usually preserved in the husk, and will keep two* years without deteriorations 
and four without being unfit for use. \ 

In India it is a commonly received opinion, that when the supply of water 
is adequate, ground can never be in such good heart as when regularly cultivated \ 
t>y a succession of rice crops. In all old reservoirs a great part is filled up by 
the deposition from the water, and when a village has been deserted for some 
time, unless the mound break down, the tanks in general become obliterated. In 
many parts of Mysore the wells contain what the ^natives call salt water ; at 
Bangalore particularly there are several, some of them are situated very near 
wells that are perfectly fresh, which is to be accounted for from the vertical 
position of the strata. The farmers here have not long leases, but it is not usual 
to change the tenant so ^ong as he pays the rent. When a farmer runs away 
for arrears of rent or oppression, and goes into the bounds of a neighbouring 
amildar, it is not customary in any native government to give him up, which is 
a .considerable check on arbitrary conduct, as a very unreasonable amildar would 
soon be deserted. 

The cattle reared in the Vicinity of Seringapatam are cows, buffaloes, sheep, 
and the long legged goat. The natives of this country, and of India generally, 
seldom use butter in the manner Europeans do, but prefer what is called ghee, 
not only because it keeps better, but also on account of its having more taste 
and smell. In drier to collect a quantity sufficient for making ghee, tne butter is. 
often kept two or three days, which in a warm climate renders it rancid; After 
a sufficient quantity .has been collected, it is melted in an earthen pot and boiled 
until all the water has evaporated, when it is pqured into pots and kept for use. 
The native breed of horses here, as in most parts of India, is a small, ill shaped 
vicious poney, although considerable pains were taken by Hyder and Tippoo to 
introduce abetter kind, but without success; and their cavalry continued ah* 
ways very ill mounted. Above the Ghauts asses are a cattle very much usedr 
The breed is Very small, no pains being taken to improve it, or to keep it from 
growing worse ; and the natives never use the milk. Swine: were once very 
common in Mysore, but Tippoo succeeded in banishing them frdm r the neigh* 



OF MYSORE. 353 

bourhood of the capital. The sheep are of three varieties as to colour — red, 
white, and black. The Mysore province abounds with iron ore, but it is worked 
in a very slovenly manner. At the iron works near Chinnarayana Durga, the 
smelters procure from the ore about 47 per cent, of malleable iron ; but as usual 
in Hindostan, it is very impure. At the smelting houses the buildings are so 
mean that they go for nothing in the expense, and at the beginning of the sea- 
son are put up by the workmen in the course of a day. 

The three large divisions of this province named Patana, Nagara, and Chat* 
racal, are under the inspection of an officer bf rank, or Soubahdar. Each sub- 
division is managed by an Amildar, who is an officer of justice, police, and reve- 
nue ; but his authority is very much limited. These Amildars have under them 
a sufficient number of accountants, who in the Karnataca language are called 
Parputties, and the villages under them are managed by Gaudas and Shana- 
bogas, called by the Mahommedans Potails and Curnums, which two offices 
are properly hereditary. The Gauda is the representative of the Amildar, and 
the Shanaboga of the village accountant. The Amildars, Parputties, and 
Shanabogas, are almost universally Brahmins ; the Gaudas are all Sudras. My- 
sore, upon the whole, is but thinly inhabited, and not to be compared with 
Bengal, or the adjacent provinces. In consequence of incessant wars and cala- 
mities prior to the final conquest in 1799, many districts, formerly well peopled, 
do not yet exhibit the vestige of a human being. In 1761, it was ravaged by 
Bunee Visajee Pundit ; in 1765, 1767, and 1770, by the Peshwa Madhurow ; in 
1771 by Trimbuck Row; in 1774 by Ragoonauth Row; in 1776 and 1786, by 
Hurry Punt Phurkia; and lastly, in 1791 and 1792, it sustained most merciless 
ravages from the troops of Purseram Bhow. 

In 1799, when the conquest of Mysore was finally achieved by the army 
under General Harris, the new administration established by the British govern- 
ment commenced its proceedings by proclaiming an unqualified remission of all 
revenue balances, and the restoration of the ancient Hindoo assessment on the 
lands. In 1804, the number of families in the Mysore Raja’s territories was 
estimated at 482,612, and the total inhabitants at 2,171,754; since which time, 
having enjoyed uninterrupted tranquillity, they have no doubt greatly increased. 
Of these families there does not appear to have been more than 17,000 of the 
Mahommedan religion, which is very extraordinary, considering that it had 
been 38 years under zealous sovereigns of that faith. The Brahmin families 
were 25,370 ; the Lingait 72,627 ; and the Jain 2063. In A. D. 1804; the gross 
revenue of the Mysore Raja’s state was 2,581,550 pagodas. Accounts in My- 
sore are kept in Canter Raya pagodas, and the seer is the standard of weight 
Cloth and timber are usually measured by the purchaser’s cubit# which may he 
vojl it. s z 



THE PROVINCE 


354 

considered in all nations as 18 inches on an average. Notwithstanding the des- 
potic authority of the last sultan, Tippoo, he was never able to establish a uni- 
formity of weights and measures. In this country and throughout India gene- 
rally, a great deal of bullion is lost to the world by being buried, as when the 
owners get old and stupid, they forget where their treasures are bidden; and 
sometimes when they do know, die without divulging the secret. 

Since the conquest, several excellent roads have been formed to facilitate the 
conveyance of troops, guns, and stores, and have greatly redounded to the re- 
putation of the minister Purneah, by whom they were constructed. Like man jf 
other institutions in the south of India, they contribute to the ease and pleasure 
of travellers, especially European ones, and also to the advantage of govern- \ 
ment ; but many years must pass away before commerce could either make or 
keep such roads in repair. A turnpike, or toll, would not defray the expense, 
unless it were taken on the guns, stores, and arrack of the army; it is conse-’ 
quently unjust to compel the neighbouring peasantry either to make or repair 
the high-ways. It may be said, that at one season of the year the peasantry 
have nothing else to do ; but to make them ‘work gratuitously on the roads, is 
to levy an extra assessment in labour instead of money. A military road is 
meant to facilitate the march of armies for the general defence ; a general as- 
sessment ought consequently to be made to defray the expense ; the treasury, 
therefore, and not the unfortunate villagers who happen to be in the tract 
through which the great road is to be carried, should furnish the funds from 
whence the charge is to be defrayed. In India, a corvee is always productive 
of much oppression. If an extra assessment of either land or labour be once 
admitted, the door to abuse and petty tyranny is spread open. Besides this, 
the people of the villages through which they pass, have no more to do with 
them than others 500 miles off, except that they are more exposed to the incon- 
veniencies that travellers and detachments invariably occasion. In England 
where the king has lost his privilege of purveyance, a village gets rich by be- 
coming a stage on a great road ; but in India the reverse happens, and a village 
is infinitely molested and impoverished by the applications, or rather the exac- 
tions of troops and travellers. 

Mysore having submitted to the Mahommedan yoke at a very recent period 
compared with the rest of Hindostan, retains the primitive Hindoo manners and 
customs in considerable purity. From persons of this faith, information is best 
collected where a considerable number of them are collected together ; when a 
few are present they are afraid of reflections from those who are absent, and in 
general Hindoos are rather inclined to have matters of business publicly dis* 
cuAed. In this country, the person who receives charity is always considered 



OP MYSORE. 


855 

of higher rank than the donor; but by charity must be understood something 
given to a person asking for it in the name of God, as having dedicated himself 
to a religious life. When sick r Hindoos often make a vow to . subsist by begging 
for a certain number of days after they recover. 

When two parties in a village have a dispute, one of them very frequently has 
recourse to an expedient by which both suffer ; and this is the killing of a jack- 
ass in the streets, which would insure the immediate desolation of the place, 
where no Hindoo would sojourn another night unless by compulsion. Even the 
adversaries of the party who killed the ass, would think themselves bound in 
honour to fly. The natives also have recourse to a similar remedy when they 
think themselves oppressed by government in matters of caste. The monkies 
and squirrels are here very destructive, but it is reckoned criminal to kill them. 
The proprietors of gardens used formerly to hire a particular class of men, who 
took these animals in nets, and then by stealth conveyed them into .the gardens 
of some* distant village ; but as the people there had recourse to the same ex- 
pedient, all parties became tired of the practice. 

The washerman of every village, whose function is hereditary, washes all the 
farmer’s cloths, and according to the number of persons in each family, receives 
a regulated proportion of the crop. They also wash the cloths of the Pan- 
changa, or village astrologer, who (they say), in return, visits them occasionally, 
and tells them some lies, for that he is never at the trouble of predicting the 
truth except to those who are rich. The Whallia are here considered the very 
lowest, yet they are extremely desirous of keeping up the purity of the breed, 
and never intermarry but with the daughters of families, with whose descent, 
from long vicinity, they are well acquainted. Everywhere in Mysore and Car- 
nata the palanquin bearers are of Telinga origin. Their hereditary chiefs are 
called Pedda Bui, which appellation, among the Europeans at Madras, is be- 
stowed on the head bearer of every gentleman’s seat. The dress of the females 
in Mysore is very becoming, and they possess in general fine forms : the men 
are mostly stout and healthy, and rather taller than the natives of Coromandel, 
with complexions a tinge fairer. In the villages near Seringapatam, a great 
proportion of the farmers eat pork ; but, although the river Cavery abounds 
with fish, very few are caught by the natives, who are not partial to this species 
of food. In this province, as in Hindostan generally, the hour consists of the 
60th part of a day, or 24 minutes ; and the natives compute distances by an 
hour’s travelling, called at Madras a Malabar mile. The Hindoos seldom erect 
magnificent buildings, and the Mahommed^n chiefs under Tippoo were too un- 
certain of their property to lay out much on houses. Every thing they ac- 
quired was, in general, immediately expended on dress, equipage, and amuse* 



356 THE PROVINCE 

ment, which accounts for there being in reality no private buildings in Mysore 
of any grandeur. 

Owing to the practice of polygamy, very few of the females in this country 
live in a state of celibacy, except young widows of high caste who cannot marry 
again. These, however, are numerous, as matches between old men and mere 
children are very frequent. The comfort of having children is, in general, all 
the pleasure that married women of high rank enjoy in India. Where polygamy 
prevails, love is but little known ; or if it does possess a man, he is usually cap 1 
tivated by some artful dancing girl, and not by any of his wives. In common 
cases, a man may marry as many wives as he can maintain or procure; and here 
the first is not difficult, the women being extremely industrious both in the field 
and at spinning. With a few exceptions jthe females are not confined, but on \ 
marriage they adopt the religious forms of their husbands. Among some castes \ 
widows cannot marry again, and were expected to burn themselves alive with 
their husbands ; but the practice is now become obsolete. In every part of India 
a man s marrying his uncle’s daughter is looked upon as incestuous. 

The division and subdivision of caste throughout Hindostan is infinite. The 
Brahmins assert, that they are divided into at least 2000 tribes, which never in- 
termarry, although permitted to do so without infringing their caste. In Ally- " 
sore they are distinguished into three principal sects. — 1st., the Smartal ; 2dly, 
the Sri Vaishnavam; and 3dly, the Madual. The Nairs of Malabar, like the 
Khayastas of Bengal, are of the highest class of Sudras. A great majority of 
the Hindoo castes are allowed by their religion to eat animal food, and a consi- 
derable number to drink spirituous liquors. In the country around Seringapa- 
tam, the division of the people into what are called the right and the left hand 
sides is productive of considerable effect. The first comprehends nine castes, 
the last 18. The circumstances that add dignity to a caste in this country are — 
its being restricted from the pleasures of the table ; the following of no useful 
employment, and being dedicated to what are here called piety and learning. 
Every man endeavours as much as possible to assume the appearance of these 
perfections ; and among the inhabitants of Mysore a hypocritical cant is a very 
prevailing fashion. 

The males of the Mysore Rajas family are said to be divided into two great 
branches, the Raja Bundas, and the^Collalays, who intermarry. The head of 
the first is the Curtur, or sovereign ; and of the last, the Dalawai. Some of the 
males of each family aje of Vishnu's side, and some of them of Siva's ; but 
none wear the Linga, and all acknowledge the Brahmins as their gooroos, or spi- 
ritual guides. The Curtur, immediately on ascending the throne, whatever re- 
ligion he may have been educated in, always adopts the ceremonies at least of 


Mi . 



OF MYSORE. 357 

the Sri Vaishnavam. On the contrary, the ladies of both families wear the linga, 
reject the authority of the Brahmins, and are under the spiritual guidance" of the 
Jangamas. This arrangement among other nations would be considered extra* 
ordinary, but among Hindoos it is not uncommon. With this religious sect a 
man is reckoned good who prays constantly, bestows great alms on religious 
mendicants, and who makes tanks, reservoirs, choultries, and gardens. To be 
absorbed into the substance of their gods, is supposed by the Hindoos to be the 
greatest possible felicity, and only happens to particular favourites. The rich 
among the lower castes procure absolution of their sins by giving charity to the 
Brahmins ; the poor not having this resource must trust to the mercy of God. 

The Mysore Raja’s family traces its origin to the Yadava tribe, which boasts 
among its eminent characters, Krishna the celebrated Hindoo Apollo, and at a 
remote period had its residence at Dwaraca, in the peninsula of Gujerat. The 
first sovereign on record is Cham Raj, who ascended the throne in A. D. 1507 ; 
but he may be considered as having been merely a Wadeyar, or governor of a 
small district. 

Tim Raj reigned in 1548> and added some small territories to his dominions. 

Heere Cham Raj reigned in 1571, and died in 1576. He was succeeded by 
Betad Wadeyar, his cousin, who was supplanted in the government by 
his younger brother, Raj Wadeyar. This sovereign appears to have been 
the greatest conqueror of the Mysore family, and more than doubled the 
extent of his dominions. In 1610, he acquired the important fortress of 
Seringapatam, from the viceroy on the part of the falling Bijanagur dy- 
nasty. He was succeeded by his grandson, 

Cham Raj, who added considerably to the Mysore territories tod died in 1637. 

Immadee Raj, the posthumous son of Raj Wadeyar, was his successor, and 
was poisoned at the expiration of p year by his dalawai, or prime mi- 
nister. 

Canty Revy NarsaRaj, the son of Betad Cham Raj, was the next sovereign of 
Mysore, and was the first prince who established a mint and coined hoons 
(pagodas) and fanams, still called after his name. He reigned from 1639 
to 1659. 

Dud Deo Raj was his successor and reigned until 1672, during which time 
he made many conquests from, the neighbouring Wadeyars and Naiks. 

Chick Deo Rqj ascended the throne in 1672 and died in 1704. This prince 
completed the subjugation, of the turbulent Wadeyars, made a new land- 
assessment* which in a great measure still subsists, and destroyed the Jun- 
gum priests. His prime minister for 14 years was a Jain pundit. Among 
other places he acquired Bangalore by purchase. 



THE PROVINCE 


358 

Canty Raj, son of the last sovereign, ascended the throne in 1704. Having 
been bom deaf and dumb, he was sumamed Mook Arsoo, or the dumb sove- 
reign. In this reign began the influence of the Dalawais or prime minis- 
ters, which ever after kept the Rajas in the condition of mere pageants. He 
died in 1714, and was succeeded by 

Dud Kishen Raj, whose Dalawai was Deo Raj. He died in 1731, and was 
succeeded by Cham Raj, whose chief ministers were Deo Raj and Nunse- 
raj. These deposed and imprisoned him in 1734, and placed on the throne 

Chick Kishen Raj, whose ministers were Deo Raj and the younger Nunseraj, > 
who undertook the long siege of Trichinopoly, where he was baffled by I 
Major Lawrence. In this reign appeared Hyder Ali Khan, who afterwards 
became supreme monarch of Mysore and many adjacent provinces. He 
was 27 years df age before he entered the military service, in which he after- \ 
wards made so distinguished a figure, and was through life unable either to 
read or write. His career began about 1749, but it was A. D. 1755 
before he had his first separate command, when he was sent by the Dalawai 
Nunseraj to subdue Dindigal, which he effected. 

In 1760, Hyder assumed sovereign power, having banished Nunseraj his patron, 
and retaining the Raja as a pageant. The same year he was expelled from 
Seringapatam by his own Dewan, Cundee Row ; but in 1761 he reinstated him- 
self, and ever after held the government with a firm hand. In 1763 he conquered 
Bednore, Soonda and Canara ; and in 1766 Calicut and the. greatest part of Ma- 
labar. This year the nominal Raja died, and Hyder ordered his oldest son to' be 
installed as his successor, with the usual formalities. In 1771, Hyder was totally 
defeated by Madhurow the Peshwa of the Maharattas, but soon recovered his 
power and possessions. In 1780, he invaded the lower Carnatic, which he de- 
solated with fire and sword, carrying his ravages to the gates of Madras. By 
the firmness and exertions of Mr. Hastings, and the military talents of Sir Eyre 
Coote, his progress was arrested ; but being powerfully assisted by the French, 
he was enabled to carry on an indecisive warfare until the 9th of December^ 
1782, when he died, leaving the throne to his son Tippoo, who had already esta- 
blished reputation as a general. 

This prince was born in 1753, while his father served in the Carnatic, and was 
named after Tippoo Sultan, a celebrated Mahommedan devotee of Arcot, where 
his mausoleum still continues a favourite resort of the pious, and for whom 
Hyder had a particular veneration. This ascetic, like other sofies, or pure ah* 
stracted saints, assumed the royal designation of Shah or Sultan, as the 'con- 
queror or spiritual lord of his passions ; in the Canarese, Tippoo signifies a tiger, 
Kurreem Saheb, Tippoos elder brother, was set aside as a madman, who occa- 



OF MYSORE- 359 

ikmally had lucid intervals, but in general his intellects were those of a child, 
with the obstinacy of a mule, both depending greatly on the quantity of opium 
or bang he had taken. Pursuing the steps of his father, Tippoo prosecuted the 
war until the 11th of March, 1784, when being deprived of the co-operation of 
his French allies by the peace in Europe, he concluded a treaty on extremely 
honourable terms. From the above date he was occupied in harassing and sub- 
duing his neighbours until 1790, when he made an unprovoked attack on the 
Raja of Travancore, who called on the British government for the assistance 
stipulated by treaties. A war commenced in consequence, which terminated on 
the 16th of March, 1792, in a peace concluded by Lord Cornwallis under the 
walls of Seringapatam, which deprived him of one half of his dominions, and 
rendered the other of uncertain tenure. To recover his lost power, and gratify 
his hatred to the British nation, he solicited the alliance of the French Republic 
and of Zemaun Shah, and endeavoured to excite disaffection and rebellion among 
the Mahommedan natives of the British provinces. A second war ensued, which 
fdrhimhada fatal conclusion. On the 4th of May, 1799, Seringapatam, his 
capital, was stormed by the army under General Harris, when he fell by an un- 
known hand, and with him terminated the Mahommedan dynasty of Mysore, 
having lasted 38 years. This sovereign had certainly considerable talents, but 
he wanted the prudence and common sense of his father Hyder. He succeeded 
best in attaching to himself the lower classes of Mahornmedans, and he possessed 
all the cant, bigotry, and zeal necessary for effecting that object. None of his 
Mahommedan soldiers entered the British service, although many suffered ex- 
treme poverty, and they still revere his memory, considering him as a martyr 
fallen in the defence of their religion. 

On the 22d of June, 1799, the British government raised to the throne Maha 
Raja Krishna Udiaver (then six years of age), a legitimate descendant of the 
ancient Mysore family, which had been superseded first by the Dalawais, or prime 
.ministers, and afterwards by Hyder and his son. By a subsidiary treaty con- 
cluded with him on the 8th of July, it was stipulated that the Company should 
maintain a military force for the defence of Mysore against all invaders, for 
which the Raja should pay an annual subsidy of seven lacks of pagodas. In 
extraordinary cases of warfare the expenses to be amicably contributed, the 
friends and enemies of the one being considered as standing in the same relation 
to the other. To conduct the government during the Raja's minority, an expe- 
rienced native, named Purneah, who had distinguished himself as chief finance 
fniniater under Tippoo, was. .appointed Dewan; and under his able management 
the country continued to advance in prosperity with unprecedented rapidity. 
The sumvingmembers of Tippoo’s family were for some years kept in custody 



THE PROVINCE 


360 

at Vellore, where they were allowed a liberal allowance and every practicable in- 
dulgence, but in consequence of the part they took in instigating the mutiny and 
massacrq at that fortress in 1806, they were removed to Bengal, where, in the 
morning of the 30th of April, 1811, Mohi ud Deen, the third and only legiti- 
mate son of the late Tippoo Sultan, put an end to his existence by shooting him- 
self with a gun, a rare instance of suicide among Mahommedans. In 1812, 
Padishah Begum, the first and only surviving wife of Tippoo, who had originally 
declined receiving any allowance from the British government, was reduced to 
great distress, owing to the failure of the remittances which she had been ac- 
customed to receive from her brother Gholaum Enam Hossein Khan, known at 
Madras by the name of the Pondicherry Nabob. Suffering severely in this 
state of poverty, she expressed herself desirous of accepting the pension for- 
merly offered her, and which she had probably refused, more from the sugges- 
tions of her brother, than from any disinclination of her own. The paymaster 
at Vellore was in consequence directed to pay her the established stipend of 200 
rupees per month, and cloth money to the amount of 150 rupees per annum. 
One of the first bodies of regular Pindaries was formed, and nominally headed, 
by the son of Kurreem Saheb, who had been seduced away by a northern 
Brahmin soon after the fall of Seringapatam, and whose intellects were even more 
deranged than those of his father. His name, however, as the nephew of Tippoo 
Sultan, was sufficient to attract a numerous band of plunderers, but they were 
put down along with the other corps of depredators in the campaign of 1818. 
In April of the same year, Moiz ud Deen, another of Tippoo’s sons, died at Cal- 
cutta of the cholera morbus. 

In 1812, the Mysore Raja Krishna Udiaver, having attained the age of 19, 
evinced a strong desire to assume the active charge of his dominions, which so in- 
censed the Dewan Purneah, who had hitherto had the whole management, that 
he used insulting expressions to the Raja, for which he was reprimanded by the 
acting Resident. This rupture proceeded to such an extremity, that a cordial 
reconciliation appeared impossible, and the Raja having not only attained a ma* 
ture age, but shewn considerable talents for business, and moderation of disposi- 
tion, it was determined to invest him with the whole power to which he was en- 
titled by the original treaty of federal alliance in 1799. This arrangement was 
accordingly carried into execution, but the old Dewan, whose temper was impe- 
rious, and who had been long accustomed to govern, did not long survive what 
he considered a degradation. The same year he had a paralytic stroke which 
affected his understanding, and he shortly after quitted this life altogether. , On 
this event the Raja continued the stipends to his family, cancelled a debt due. to 
his own treasury by the Dewan of six lacks of pagodas (£ 240 , 000 ), and in every 



(satNGAFAVAM.] OF MYSORE. 961 

.respect manifested & degree of liberality tod magnanimity highly honourable to 
hi* character. — ( F. Burkamn, Wilit, Dirom, Sir John Malcolm, Thackeray, Pub- 
UcJMS. Decommit, Heym, 8$c. fyc. S$e.) 

SxBinoAtATAu ( Sri Uanga Palana ). — A aty in the province of Mysore, of 
vririch it is the modern capita). Let. 12° 36' N. long. 76° 45' E. This city is 
placed at the upper end of an island surrounded by the Cavery, which is here a 
large and rapid river, having a very extensive channel impeded by rocks and 
fragments of granite. The island of Seringapatam has been found by actual 
survey tq be about fourroiles in length, by one and a half in breadth, across the 
middle part, where the ground also is highest, as it from thence slopes to the 
north. The country in the neighbourhood rises gradually on both sides of the 
river, and for spme distance from the town is finely watered by excellent canals, 
which, haring been taken from the river, follow the windings of the hills, and, at 
they advance horizontally to the eastward, send off branches to water the inter- 
mediate space. The water is forced into the sources of these canals by dams 
thrown across the river, mad formed of large blocks of granite, the whole-being 
of prodigious strength, ami executed at a vast expense. Seringapatam and all 
the country north and north-easterly, approaching the Ceded Districts, is a val- 
ley, more than 1000 feet beJow the table land round Bangalore, descending as we 
advance to rite northward. 

In this province Seringapatam is commonly called Fatana or the city; but the 
name by which it is distinguished in the maps is a corruption of Sri Ranga Pa- 
tang, an epithet of Vishnu, the preserving power. The fort occupies about a 
mile at the west end of the island, and is an immense, unfinished, injudicious 
mass of building. In fortifying Seringapatam, Tippoo retained the king straight 
walls and square bastions of the Hindoos, while his ghcis was in many parts so 
high and steep as to shelter the assailants. The pettah, or suburbs, is built on the 
middle and highest part of the island, and is about half a mile square. Hyder’s 
palace, named the Laul Baugh, occupies the east end of the island, and although 
built, of mud displays considerable elegance, and .is a very handsome native 
structure, Adjoining is the mausoleum of Hyder, where rests ell that was royal 
of this Mahommedan dynasty, consisting of Hyder himself, bis wife and Tippoo, 
who lfo under tombs of black marble, elevated about W inches from the ground. 
These tombs covered with rich cloths at the expense of the. British govern* 
meat, and the establishment of priests to offer up prayers, and .of musicians to 
perform the Nobat, is retained as formerly. The palace * the c% » a very 
large building, surrounded by a massy and lofty .wall of atone ami mud, and 
outwardly of t mean appearance, a description applicable to every public edifice 
m Seringap&tam. These are how greatly degraded from their ancient dignity ; 

'to*, ii, 3 a 



369 THE PROVINCE [siHiNGAPATAW. 

Hyder’s palace is the residenceof a surgeon; his seraglio an European hospital: 
Tippoo’s seraglio is a barrack for artillery ; his private apartments are occupied 
by th$ Resident, and his public by European troops. All these buildings have a 
very heavy appearance externally for the want of windows, and, although consi- 
dered excellent accommodation by the Mahommedan chiefs, are ill suited to 
Europeans, being close shut up and inconvenient. The streets are also very 
narrow and confused. 

In 1800, according to the register of houses, the fort or city contained 4163 
houses, and 6499 families ; and the suburbs 2216 houses, with 3336 familied. 
At five inhabitants to each house, we may estimate the population of the city to 
be 20,815, and of the suburbs, 11,080 ; in all, 31,895 persons, independent of a 
strong garrison and its numerous followers. It is probable that in Tippoo’s reign\ 
the island of Seringapatam contained 150,000 inhabitants; but many have been \ 
attracted to the Raja’s residence at Mysore, and many Mahommedans who ori- 
ginally came from the lower Carnatic, since the destruction of Hyder’s dynasty, 
have returned there. The manufactures of Seringapatam and its vicinity were 
never considerable, principally military stores and camp equipage. Timber is 
here very dear, being mostly brought by land carriage from the Western Ghauts. 
Excellent meat and good vegetables are to be had in abundance, but bread being 
dear, the European soldiers are obliged to eat rice. In 1817, the total gross col- 


lection of the public revenue was a follows : — 

Land revenue 2,047 star pagodas. 

Salt 

Land customs 9,840 

Exclusive sale of spirits (abkarry) .... 7,070 

Sundry small branches of revenue .... 401 

Stamps 268 

Tobacco monopoly 


Total . . 19,628 

On the night of the 6th of February, 1792, Lord Cornwallis attacked Tippoo's 
fortified camp, under the walls of Seringapatam, within a bound hedge, strength- 
ened by redoubts, and amounting to 40,000 infantry, besides a large body of 
cavalry. For this attack he selected 2800 Europeans, and 5900 native infantry, 
but without artillery. The attack was completely successful, and 80 guns were 
taken, with the loss of 535 men killed and wounded. The Sultan’s lossin the 
battle is said to have been 4000, but the desertion was so great after the over* 
throw, that his army was reduced in number at least 20,000* On the 24th of 
February, preliminaries of peace were settled with Tippoo, who relinquished 



seeing apatam.] OF MYSORE. 363 

half his dominions, and paid three crores and 30 lacks of rupees (about three 
millions and a half sterling) in bullion. Lord Cornwallis gave up to the troops 
his whole share of prize-money, amounting to £47,244, and General Medows 
(the next in command) his, amounting to £14,997. On this occasion the force 
brought against the Mysore sovereign was one of the most formidable ever seen 
in Hindostan. On the 16th of March, 1792, the British army above the Ghauts 
amounted in all to 11,000 Europeans, 31,600 natives, and 190 pieces of ordnance. 
The Maharatta’s, the Nizam’s, the Raja of Travancore, and the Coorg Raja's 
forces, amounted to about 40,000 men, of w^iom 30,000 were cavalry. Towards 
the conclusion of this siege, allowing four camp followers to each soldier, the 
total number of persons attached to the camps of the confederates exceeded 
400,000. 

The bullocks attached to the army and employed in bringing supplies amounted 
to half a million, requiring one man to every three bullocks ; there were also 
several hundred elephants, and many thousand camels, with their attendants. 
Every horse in the cavalry and in the army, besides the trooper or rider, has 
two attendants, one who cleans and takes care of him, the other the grass cutter 
who provides his forage. The palanquin and litter carriers for the sick were a 
numerous class. Field officers, including the people who carry or have charge 
of their baggage, cannot have less than 40, captains 20, and subalterns 10 ser- 
vants. The soldiers have a cook to each mess, and the sepoys, most of whom 
are married, have many of them, as well as their followers, their families in camp. 
The bazar people or merchants, their servants, and adventurers who follow the 
army for the chance of plunder, are a great many. Early in the war some of 
the sepoys were prevailed on to send back their families, and arrangements were 
made to. reduce the number of followers ; but these measures tended to create 
desertion, and increase distress. While marching there are no towns to be 
depended on for supplies, and an army in India not only carries with it most of 
the means of subsistence for several months, but many articles of merchandize; 
the scene altogether resembling more the migration of a nation guarded by 
troops, than the advance of an army to subdue an enemy. 

In 1799, war being again declared, Seringapatam was stormed on the 4th of 
May* about two o’clock in the afternoon, by the army under General Harris, the 
garrison amounted to about 8000 men, of whom a great proportion was slain, 
Tippoo was killed under a gateway, probably by a party of the 12th Regiment 
of Foot; but this important event was not actually known until sometime after 
it had happened. No individual ever appeared to claim the honour of having 
slain the Sultan* nor was it ever discovered who had obtained possession of hit 
valuable necklace of pearls. Among the arrangements consequent to the sur- 

3 a2 



364 THE PROVINCE [caver* arris. 

render of Seringapatam, the British government obtained permanent possession 
of the island, which has . ever since been kept in good- condition and strongly 
garrisoned. In the opinion of w competent judge (Sir Samnel Anchmnty) this 
fortress controuls the provinces of Malabar and Canara, as from hence a force 
of any magnitude might pour down on any enemy who might forcibly establish 
himself there. The open eountry of Coimbatoor, and the districts of Trichinopoly 
and Tanjore are also within the range of its command, and besides the importance 
attached to it by the natives, it would' serve as a rallying point on the frontier, 
and cover the rich countries 'below the Ghauts The great objection to Seringa* 
patam as a garrison town is its insalubrity, fever being enddmic ; but all Mysore 
is subject to agues, and the casualties here have of late been rather on the 
decrease. . 

Travelling distance from Madras, 290 miles ; from Hyderabad, 406 ; from 
Poona; 625 ; from Bombay, 622 ; from Nagpoor, 727 ; from Calcutta, 1 170 : and 
from Delhi, 1321 miles.*- { F. Buchanan, Dirom, Lord Valcntia, RetmtU, Sir S. 
Auckmuiy, Lambton, 8?c. 8$c. 8gc.) 

Mysore.— -The residence of the Mysore Raja, and ancient capital of the pro- 
vince. Lat. 12° 19' N. long. 76° 42' £. This place is about nine miles distant 
from Seringapatam, and in the same valley; but in a more elevated situation, 
and probably more healthy. Tippoo, to destroy every vestige of the dynasty 
which his father had deposed, removed the town to a small eminence, about one 
mile from the old site, and gave it a new name, as was his custom. After having 
completed it he discovered that there was no water/ and that the place was not 
habitable. The war with the British in 1799, put an end to the work ; for the 
Raja on his restoration immediately began to carry off the materials to their 
former station. The new town which has arisen near the seat of government, in 
1802, was about a mile long, and consisted then of one principal street. The 
Raja’s fort is well built, and kept in tolerably good order. 

In 1624, tire fort at Mysore was either built or repaired, and the new name 
assigned to it of Maheshasoor, now contracted to Mysore. Prior to this ere it 
was named Purragurry. Mahesh-asoor is the name of a buffaloe-headed monster, 
whose overthrow constitutes one of the moBt celebrated exploits of -the goddess 
Calii In the year 1693, it was taken by the • Adil Shahee sovereigns of Beja- 
poor, at which date it belonged to Nectadari Naik. —(Lord Valcntia, Wilks, li- 
rishta, §c.) 

' Gaveey River (Caveri). — This is the- most useful river jin the south of In$a, 
for above the Ghauts it fertilizes the Mysore, while the Carnatic below owes Its 
chief productions to the water it distributes. It rises in *he Coorg 'country near 
the MaHber coast, passes through Mysore, Coimbatoor, and the Carnatic 



BEDNORE.] OF MYSORE. 365 

below the Ghaut*, and after a widing course of nearly 400 miles falls into the 
sea through various mouths in the province of Tanjore. The channel while 
above the mountains is stony, and its banks nowhere deep. Not far from Rya 
cottah it is precipitated abruptly, but after it enters the Carnatic it glides along 
quietly until it mingles with the sea. For the first and principal supply of water 
in the month of May, it depends on the rain thatfalls among the Western Ghaut 
Mountains. Its tributary streams collect the waters of the eastern and southern 
parts of Mysore in June and July, and during the latter part of the year it is 
again filled by tire monsoon rains on the coast of Coromandel. 

Opposite to Trichinopoly in the Carnatic, the Cavery separates into two 
brandies, and forms the island of Seringham. About 13 miles to the eastward 
of the point of separation the branches again approach, but the northern branch 
is at this place 20 feet, lower than the southern. The northern branch is per- 
mitted to run waste to the sea, and is named the Coleroon ; but the southern, 
which retains the name of Cavery, has been led into a variety of channels by the 
skill and industry of the early Hindoos, to irrigate the province of Tanjore, and 
is the cause of its extraordinary fertility. Near to the east end of the island of 
Seringham is formed an immense mound, to prevent the waters of the Cavery 
descending into the Coleroon. The coming of the fresh water from the interior, 
is everywhere celebrated with festivities by the natives of the Carnatic, who 
consider the river as one of their most beneficent deities . — ( Wilks, Heyne, 8$c.) 

Tonga. — This small river has its source among the Western Ghauts, from 
whence it flows in a northerly direction, until it joins the river mentioned below 
at Hooly Onore. 

Buna a River (.Bhadra, excellent — This river has its source in a hilly district 
of the Mysore province, not far from the frontiers of Coorg, from whence it flows 
in a northerly direction until it joins, the Tunga river; the junction of the two 
forming the Tungabhadra, or Toombudra river. 

Yadavati River.— Tnis river has its source in the Mysore province, near 
the Bababooden hills, from whence it flows almost due north, until after a course 
of about 200 miles, including the windings, it joins the Toombudra, 20 miles 
above Adorn. It is also named the Hajini and Pajini. 

Bedsore ( Beidururu ). — A district in the north-western extremity of the 
Mysore Raja’s territories, situated on the summit of that range of western hills 
which overlooks the provinces of Canara and Malabar, and is named the Western 
Ghauts. These mountains elevated from 4 to 5000 feet above >the level of the 
sea, present to the west a surface in many places perpendicular to the horizon, 

. sad by their height-intercept the clouds of the western monsoon. Nine rainy 
months in the year are usually calculated upon in this climate, and for six of that 



THE PROVINCE 


366 


[cowl durga. 


number it is customary to make the same preparatory arrangements for provision 
(water excepted), as are adopted in a ship proceeding on a voyage. This extra** 
ordinary moisture is not only favourable to the growth of the peculiar products 
of the province, but covers the face of the country with timber of great stature, 
and underwood scarcely to be penetrated. 

The exports from Bednore consist chiefly of pepper, betel nut, sandal wood, 
and cardamoms. The imports are salt, rice, coco nuts, oil, turmeric, and cotton 
cloths. 'The roads being bad, most of the goods are carried to Mangalore by 
porters, the most important article being betel nut. The difference of elevation I 
makes this climate a month later than it is on the sea coast. The cattle, like 1 
those below the Western Ghauts, are remarkably small. The country breeds 
more than is required for its cultivation, and a considerable surplus is annually 
exported to the sea coast. The horses are indifferent, but might be improved 
by sending a few stallions into the district. When conquered by Hyder in 1762, 
the Bednore dominions extended over the maritime province now named Canara, 
and to the east over a tract of more open country, extending to Sunta Bednore, 
and Hoolukera, within 20 miles of Chitteldroog . — ( Wilks, F. Buchanan , 

Bednore. — The capital of the preceding district, situated in lat. 13°50'N. 
long. 75° 6' E. It was originally named Biderhully, or bamboo village, until the 
seat of government was transferred from Ikery, after which time it was named 
Bideruru, or bamboo place. On this removal, the whole revenue of the country 
being expended here, Bednore immediately became a city of great magnitude 
and commerce, and is said to have then contained 20,000 houses, besides huts, 
defended by a circle of woods, hills, and fortified defiles. When taken by 
Hyder in 1763, it was estimated at eight miles in circumference, and the plunder 
realized was reported (by native authorities) at 12 millions sterling. Being, like 
his son Tippoo, a great changer of names, he called it Hydemuggur, and it 
remained unmolested until 1783, when it was taken and plundered by a detach- 
ment of Bombay troops under General Matthews, but they were afterwards 
attacked by Tippoo, assisted by a French corps, and all destroyed or made 
prisoners. At Tippoo’s death Bednore still contained 1500 houses besides huts, 
and it has since greatly recovered, being a convenient thoroughfare* for goods. 
During the Ranny’s government, 100 families of Concan Christians settled a$ 
Bednore, and subsisted chiefly by ^tilling and vending spirituous liquors. 
Tippoo carried them all to Seringapatam. 

Travelling distance from Seringapatam, 187 miles; from Madras* 445; and 
from Poona, 382 miles. — ( JF. Buchannan , Wilks , Rcnnell , 8$c.) 

Cowl Durga (Cavil Durga ), — A town andjort in the Mysore Raja’s terri- 
tories, district of Bednore. Lat. 13" 37' N. long. 75" 1 V E. Hodatia, which 



BiMooA.j OF MYSORE. 367 

lies in the neighbourhood, was formerly the residence of a family of Poligars, 
who were hereditary flute players to the sovereigns of Bijanagur. 

Bessely Ghaut (Bisavali-ghat ). — A pass through the western range of 
mountains, leading from the Mysore into the maritime province of Canara. 

Chick amogloor. — A town in the Mysore territories, 85 miles N.W. from 
Seringapatam.* Lat. 13° 18' N. long. 75° 54' E. 

Ikery. — The ruins of a town of great note in the Mysore province, 18 miles 
north from Bednore. Lat. 14° 7' N. long. 75° 7' E. Near to these tumuli, on 
the south bank~of the Varadi, which is here a small stream, stands a well-built 
town named Sagar, which carries on a considerable trade. During the time that 
Ikery was the residence of the princes descended from Sadasiva, it was a very 
large place, and by the natives it is said, with their usual exaggeration, to have 
contained 100,000 houses. Like Soonda the ruins of its walls are of very con- 
siderable extent, and formed three concentric enclosures rather than fortifications. 
No town at present remains here, but the devastation was not occasioned by any 
political calamity ; the court having removed from hence to Bednore, the people 
soon followed. Ikery continued the nominal capital, the Rajas were called by 
its name, and the coins were supposed to be struck there, although in point of 
fact the mint was removed. The pagodas struck since the conquest of Mysore 
and Bednore are still denominated Ikery pagodas. The country from hence to 
Ghenaser Gulli is so barren, that it does not even answer the purposes of pasture. 
(F. Buchanan , $$c.) 

Sxmoga ( Siva Mogay ). — A town in the Mysore Raja’s territories, 122 miles 
N.W. from Seringapatam. Lat. 13° 56' N. long. 75° 41' E. The fortifications 
of this place are not strong. The river Tunga in the rains washes the eastern 
Wall, on which face there is no ditch. Each angle of the fort has a cavalier 
tower, and there are three small towers in each face of the curtain, where a num- 
ber of jinjals and swivels are mounted; but the rampart is too narrow for large 
guns. In this neighbourhood the manufacture of cotton cloth begins ; for there 
is none fabricated to the westward. The wet lands here are generally of a light 
soil, and at the entrance into the open country the laterite seems to terminate. 
The breed of cattle in this vicinity begins to improve, when compared with that 
to the west. During Hyder’s reign he brought carpenters to Simoga, from Man- 
galore, and built a number of lighters of about eight tons burthen, but they 
proved of no sort of use. 

In 1790, on the plain near to this place, a battle was fought between Purseram 
Mow and Mahommed Reza, commonly called the Binky Nabob, or burning 
lord ; being, on account of his activity, generally employed by the Sultan to 



368 THE PROVINCE [ktcokda. 

waste the qountry. In this action the Maharattas had scarcely any thi ng to do, 
the whole brant of the engagement Ming on the Bombay detach m ent tinder 
Captain Little, which at the commencement of the battle mustered only 7fiQ 
men. »The enemy’s force never was accurately ascertained, bat probably ap- 
proached 10,000 men. At this time Simoga contained 6000 homes, the whole 
of which were destroyed by the Maharattas, the women ravished; and the hand- 
somest carried away. Such of the men as fell into the hands of the Maharattas 
were killed, and of those who escaped the sword a large proportion perished by 
hunger. These ruffians did not even spare the Kudali Swami, who is the gooroei 
(high priest) of all the Maharatta Brahmins of the Smartal sect, and by theml 
considered as an actual incarnation of the deity. They plundered and burned 
his matam or college, which so enraged the pontiff, that he threatened them 
with excommunication, and was only pacified by a present from the Peshwa iff 
400,000 rupees ; half of which Tippoo extorted from him and 'paid to Lord 
Cornwallis, on account of the fine imposed at the treaty of Seringapatam. This 
unfortunate city was again completely plundered in 1798; but having since 
enjoyed a respite of 20 years from the ravages of war, it has considerably 
recovered its wealth and population. — (F. Buchanan, Moor, fyc. $c.) 

Tudura. — A village'in the Mysore territories, situated on the west bank of 
the Tunga river. Lat. 13® 40" N. long. 75° 25' E. 

Hoolt Onore. — A town in the Mysore Raja’s territories, 120 miles N. W. 
from Seringapatam. Lat. 14° N. .long. 75° 48' E. The fort here is of a square 
form, with towers at the angles, and two on each face ; but it is not on the whole 
a strong place. The pettah is extensive and tolerably well built, and enclosed 
by a bad wall and ditch. During the rains toe river Budra washes the western 
wall of toe fort. In 1792, Hooly Onore was taken by toe detachment under 
Captain Little, and completely sacked and destroyed by toe Maharattas who 
got all the plunder although they had had none of the fighting. Prior to the 
Maharatta invasion the adjacent country was remarkably well peopled and cul- 
tivated. An officer of that rapacious nation describing it, said it was so thickly 
settled that every evening when toe Maharatta army encamped, they could count 
ten villages in flames, the work of the previous day. — ( Moor, Jgc.) 

Hurrthcr (Hart Kara ). — A town in toe Mysore Raja’s territories, 42 miles 
N, W..from Chitteldroog; situated on toe east side of toe Toombudra. Let 14* 
3 1' N. long. 75° 59' E. From barometrical observations the height of Honyhur 
has been estimated at 1831 feet above the 'level of Madras. 'Die cultivation in 
toe. neighbourhood is that of dry grains, and the exports cotton and cottoc thread. 

Mtconda.— A town in the Mysore Raja’s territories, SOjniles N,W. from 



CHITTELDROOG.] OF MYSORE. 369 

Chitteldroog. Lat. 14° 16' N. long. 76° 13' E. The fort of Myconda is reckoned 
of importance, being situated at the entrance of a pass from the north-westward, 
into the valley of Chitteldroog, which it is intended to defend. — ( Moor, fyi\) 

Ramdroog (Rama Durga): — A hill fort in the Mysore Raja's territories, 20 
miles N. E. from Chitteldroog. Lat. 14° 22 N. long. 76°40 # E. 

Goodecotta. — A town and small district in the Mysore territories, 44 miles 
N. by E. from Chitteldroog. Lat. 14° 47' N. long. 76° 42 E. 

Mulkamarroor. — A town and small district in the Mysore territories, 41 
miles N.N.E. from Chitteldroog. Lat. 14° 41 N. long. 76° 50' E. 

Tulluck. — A town in the Mysore territories, 25 miles N. N. E. from Chittel- 
droog. Lat. 14° 24' N. long. 76° 51' E. 

Cancoupa. — A town and small district in the Mysore territories, 21 miles 
N.byW. from Chitteldroog. Lat. 14°30'N. long. 76°23'E. 

Anaje. — A town in the Mysore territories, having a small district attached, 
27 miles N.W. from Chitteldroog. Lat. 14° 27 N. long. 76° 13' E. 

Dodairee. — A town and small district in the Mysore territories, 22 miles E. 
by N. from Chitteldroog. Lat. 14° 16' Si. long 76° 48' E. 

Nidgull. —A town and small district in the Mysoie territories, 45 miles E. 
from Chitteldroog. Lat. 14° 10' N. long. 77° 10' E. 

Chitteldroog (Chitra Durga), — A town and fortress belonging to the 
Mysore Raja, the capital of a district. Lat. 14° 4' N. long. 76°30'E. By the 
natives it is named Sitala Durga, which signifies the spotted castle, and also Chat- 
tracal, which means the umbrella rock. It is everywhere surrounded by low, 
rocky,, bare hills, on one of which stands the droog or fortress, formerly the 
residence of the Poiigar of the country. In the year 1776, Hyder gained it by 
treachery, at which time the town was very large. It is still a considerable 
place, and as a fortress one of the strongest in India. According to the usual 
style of Indian fortified rocks, it is surrounded by several walls, one within the 
other. The works on the hill are still strong, and the lower fort, although in some 
parts weak, is generally of respectable strength, — nor, if carried by an enemy, 
would it materially advance his subsequent operations against the summit. 
This fortress connects the great southern line of defence, extending from Madras 
to the Malabar coast, with, the advanced line of fortifications in the Balaghaut 
Ceded Territories. 

The plain of Chitteldroog consists of a black soil, and is ID miles from north 
to south, and four from east to west, but owing to a deficiency of water, the 
quantity of rice land is small. To reach the water the wells must be made 
deep, and what is procured is of a bad quality. This may in part be attributed 
to die common n a st i ne ss of the Hindoos, who wash their clothes, bodies, and 
vol u. 3 » 



370 THE PROVINCE [buixuii. 

cattle in the same tanks and wells from whence they take their own beverage# 
The whole neighbouring country is reckoned unhealthy, although it is perfectly 
dry and ,clea»\ The natives assert, that every country is unhealthy in which 
the black soil called eray abounds. The chiefship of villages here is an heredi- 
tary officer, as is usual through the Mysore Raja’s possessions, and he acts as 
priest to the village god. Almost every village has a peculiar deity of this kind, 
and most of them are believed to be of destructive propensities. The natives 
propitiate their good offices by putting an iron hook through the skin under 
their shoulder blades, by which they are suspended to a moveable transverse j 
beam, and swung round for a considerable time. At the conclusion of the last \ 
Mysore war, in 1799, in consequence of repeated ravages and calamities, many 
districts of the Mysore province, formerly well peopled, were totally laid waste, 
and scarcely exhibited a vestige of population. Chitteldroog suffered in a pre- 
eminent degree, and was deprived of the great mass of its inhabitants. Tra- 
velling distance from Seringapatam 151 ; from Madras 335 miles. — ( F. Buchanan , 
Wilks , Sir S. Auchmuty , Moor , Rermell, &;c. <§ t *) 

Herrioor (Heriuru). — A town in the Mysore Raja’s territories, situated on 
the east side of the Vadavati river. Lat. 13° N. long. 74°43'E. 

Pencondah. — A town in the Mysore territories, 73 miles N. from Bangalore. 
Lat. 14° AN. long. 77° 45' E. 

Paughur. — A town and small district in the Mysore territories, 60 miles E. 
from Chitteldroog* Lat. 14° 6' N. long. 77° 22' E. 

Ruttengerry ( Ratnaghiri ). — A town in the Mysore territories, 54 miles S.E. 
from Chitteldroog. Lat. 13° 50' N. long. 77° 13' E. 

Muteodu. — A small town in the Mysore Raja’s territories, containing about 
200 houses. Lat. 13° 39' N. long. 76° 25' E. At this place there is a manufac- 
ture of the glass used for making the rings which the native women wear round 
their wrists. The glass is very coarse and opaque, and is of five colours, black, 
green, red, blue, and yellow ; the first being most in demand. All the mate- 
rials are found in the neighbourhood, and great quantities of the glass is bought 
by the bangry (ring) makers to the westward. During the hot season soda is 
found, in the form of a white efflorescence, on the adjacent sandy fields. The 
European glass is considered by the ring manufacturers as useless as our cast 
iron ; for neither of these substances is in a state upon which the fires of the 
natives can have any effect.— (F. Buchanan, S$c.) 

Bullum. — A small district, situated about lat. 13° N. above the Western 
Ghauts, partly comprehended in the British jurisdiction of Canara, and partly 
in the territories of the Mysore Raja. The external appearance of the three 
^divisions, of Bullum, Coorg, and Bednore, nearly resemble each other, being all 



OF MYSORE. 


SZRA.] 


3?1 


composed of high hills and deep rallies. The mountains are mostly bare, 
while the ravines are covered with jungle, and in many places by primeval 
forests, inhabited by a great variety of wild animals. In fact, although nomi- 
nally under subjection to the former sovereigns of Mysore, it never was effec- 
tually conquered until military roads were made through it by the Duke of 
Wellington in 1801-2. The duration of the rains, which commence about the 
middle of May and continue until November, give rise to a multitude of rivers, 
which flow in various directions the whole year. The waters that decline from 
these elevated regions, to the westward, proceed to the Indian Ocean, through 
the provinces of Malabar and Canara. Bullum contains no town or even village 
of consequence. There are two roads through the country from the eastward ; 
the one most generally frequented leads down Bessely Ghaut to the north of the 
Soobramani Mountain; the other passes Munzurabad, and down the Cessel 
Ghaut . — ( Public Journals, 8$c. 8$c.) 

Munjehabad.— A tillage in the Bullum district,- 70 miles N.W. from Seringa* 
patam. Lat. 12° 55' N. long. 75° 53' E. 

Bailuru. — A town in the territory of the Mysore Raja, situated in lat. 1 2° 55 
N. long. 76° 3' E. Cochineal to the amount of about 1500 pounds weight is made 
here, upon nopals raised by the farmers as a fence round their gardens. The in- 
sect is of the inferior kind which had been introduced into India, and the plant 
is the cactus, which is aboriginal in the country. — (F. Buchanan , $c.) 

Mugganayakana Cotay. — A* village in the Mysore territories district of 
Hagalwadi. Lat. 13° 8' N. long. 76° 58' E. During the war of 1790, it was be- 
sieged for two months by a force consisting of ?000 of Purseram Bhow’s Maha- 
rattas, with one gun, which they fired several times, but never succeeded in 
hitting the place. In A. D. 1800, it contained about 200 houses, and was forti- 
fied with a mud wall. 

Turivakaray. — A town in the Mysore Raja’s territories, 52 miles N. from 
Seringapatam. Lat 13° 10' N. long. 76° 43' E. This place consists of un outer 
and inner fort, strongly defended by a ditch and mud wall, with* suburb at a little 
distance, containing about 700 houses. 

Chic an ackhully ( Ckicanayacana-hully). — A large square town in the Mysore 
territories, strongly fortified with mud walls, cavaliers at the angles, and in the 
centre a square citadel fortified in the same maw&ef. Lat * J$°26'N. long.75 
40' E. 67 miles N. from Seringapatam. 

Sera (Sira). — A towp ih-the Mysore Raja’s territories. 92 miles N. by E 
from Seringapatam. Lai, 13° 44' N. long, 76*68' E. The climate in this district 
is such that there seldom falls as much rain as is required to raise a full crop 
In favourable years, the greater pfcrt of the watered land is sown with rice; but 

3 n 2 



372 THE PROVINCE [pedda balapoor. 

in dry seasons, a little only of this grain is raised, and the cultivation principally 
consists of transplanted , raggy , wheat, jola, and navony, which articles require 
less watfcr. The merchants of Sera trade with the Nizam’s country, the Maha- 
rattas, and to Bednore, Seringapatam and Bangalore. The .grand article for ex* 
portation here is copra, or dried kernel of the coco nut. 

This place was first conquered by the Bejapoor Mahommedan government, in 
1644, and was afterwards, for a short time, the seat of a Mahommedan princi- 
pality, which ruled a considerable extent of country, and was at its greatest 
prosperity under Dilawur Khan, immediately before it was conquered by Hyder, 
at which time, the natives assert it to have contained 50,000 houses. Since that 
period it has suffered many calamities from Tippoo and the Maharattas, and in 
1800, scarcely contained 3000 houses. In the vicinity of Sera all the villages 
were strongly fortified, when it was conquered by the British. Prior to that 
event, the district experienced frequent famines, during which the inhabitants 
were in the practice of plundering each other to support life. In war also they 
found these fortifications, however feeble against ordnance, sufficiently strong to 
resist the irregular depredatory cavalry, who seldom carried fire-arms. In de- 
fending these villages the inhabitants employed few weapons except stones, 
which both men and women here throw with great force, boldness, and dex- 
terity. The descent of the country proceeding northward from Bangalore is very 
perceptible. At Sera, on the high ground near the Mahommedan mausoleum, 
the height by barometrical measurement has been estimated at 2223 feet above 
the level of the sea, which in the distance of 84 miles, gives a declension of 
about 500 feet. The soil about Sera contains common salt, and on that account 
is favourable to the growth of coco-nut trees, of which there are large planta- 
tions in the vallies. — ( F. Buchanan , Moor, Hcyne, 8$c.) 

Mudgherry Drooo (Madhu-giri Durga ). — A town and hill fort in the My- 
sore Raja’s territories, 55 miles N. by W. from Bangalore. Lat. 13*40' N. long. 
77° 15' E. 

Madigheshy Droog. — A fortress in the Mysore Raja’s territories, 50 miles 
S.E. from Ghitteldroog. Lat. 13° 50' N. long. 77° 13' E. It stands on a rock 
of very difficult access, at the base of which is a fortified town, which in A. D. 
1800, contained about 200 houses. 

Doda Bailea. — A fortified village in the Mysore Rajas territories, 24 miles 
N. N. W. from Bangalore. Lat. 13^ 15' N. long. 77° 25' E. 

Pedda Balapoor. — A town in the Mysore Raja’s territories, 23 miles north 
from Bangalore. Lat. 13°17'N. long. 77° 37' E. By the Mahommedans this 
place is named Burrah Balapoor, in the Telinga, Pedda Balapoor, and in the 
Camata, Doda Balapoor, by the English, Great Balapoor, and occasionally by 
the natives, Peddabal&b&ram. The fort, although entirely built of modp is 



colar.] OF MYSORE, 373 

large and strong; one side is surrounded by gardens, and the other by the town 
of Balapoor, which contained, in 1800, above 2000 houses, protected by a mud 
wall and a hedge, 

Nundydroog ( Nandidurga ),—A strong hill fort in the Mysore Raja’s terri- 
tories, 31 miles N. by E. from Bangalore. Lat. 13°22'N. long. 77° 44' E. This 
place is built on the summit of a mountain, about 1700 feet high, of which three 
fourths of its circumference is inaccessible. In 1791, the fortress ranked in 
point of strength next to Severndroog, Chitteldroog, and Kistnagherry, and was 
then taken by storm by a detachment under the command of Major Gowdie, 
after an obstinate defence of three weeks. When Hyder took it from the Ma- 
harattas, it was after a tedious blockade of three years. Among the hills of 
Nundydroog there is much fertile land, at present covered with bamooos . and 
useless trees, but quite capable of cultivation. Near to this place, among the 
hills of Chinrayaconda, the Peunar river (called m Sanscrit Uttara Pinakani) 
has its source. This river runs towards the north, and the Palar, which also 
springs from near Nundy, runs to the south. These hills may therefore be 
looked upon as the highest part of the country in the centre of the land south of 
the Krishna. The sources of the Cavery and Toombudra rivers towards the 
western side are probably higher. — ( Dirom, F. Buchanan , <$c.) 

Chica Balapoor. — A town in the Mysore Raja’s territories, also named 
ChinabUlabaram, 36 miles N. by E. from Bangalore. Lat. 13 u 26' N. long. 77° 
47' E. Sugar candy is made here equal to that of China, and the clayed sugar 
is very white and fine ; but the art being a secret, it is sold so dear, that the 
Chinese sugar candy can be purchased cheaper at Seringapatam, than this is on 
the very spot where it is produced. — ( F. Buchanan , <§*c .) 

Junguncotta. — A town and small district in the Mysore Raja’s territories, 
28 miles N. E. from Bangalore. Lat. 13° 1 5' N. long. 77° 54' E. 

Colar. — A district in the eastern extremity of the Mysore Raja’s dominions, 
bordering on the British territories, and situated between the 13th and 14th de- 
grees of north, latitude. In some low moist parts of this district, salt is made 
duriqg the dry season, by scraping off the surface of the earth, and collecting it 
in haps, from which the salt is extracted. The grain of the salt is large, and 
consists of well formed cubes, mixed with much earthy impuritv. The natives 
of Colar plant. many aloes (agare vivipara) m their hedges, and use* the leaves 
for making cordage. In the country round Colar the irrigated iand is watered 
entirely from reservoirs. Rich men build them to acauire a reputation, and* 
ire attowed a certain profit also, according to the extent of land they irrigate. 
Gold dost is found in various parts of this country, particularly nine miles east 
of Boodicotta, at a village named Marcoopum. The area of the country im- 
poagnated with gold, is estimated at 130 square miles. The prevalent language 



374 THE PROVINCE [deoxella. 

about Tayculum is the Kamataca, called by the English the Oanarese. — (F. 
Buchanan, 5th Register, §c.) 

Co lab. — T he capital of the preceding district, 40 miles E. N. E. from Banga- 
lore. Lat. 13° 8' N. long. 78° 12' E. This town has a strong mud fort with 
two very lofty walls, and in the town a cavalier of stone that rises high above 
them. In 1800 it contained above 700 houses, many of which were inhabited 
by weavers. Colar was the birth place of Hyder. His son Tippoo erected a 
handsome monument for him; and near it a mosque and college of Moullahsor . 
Mahommedan priests, with a proper establishment of musicians, were Endowed j 
to pray for his soul ; the whole of which is still continued at the expense of the \ 
British government. The gardens here, besides the usual fruits, contain cabbage, \ 
artichokes, and grapes. The trade and manufactures of Colar were entirely \ 
ruined by Tippoo, it being in the immediate vicinity of his enemy’s dominion 
with whom he would allow of no communication whatever. Both however 
are rapidly on the increase. On a hill north from the town, was formerly a hill 
fort, in which for some time resided Cossin Khan, the general of Aurengzebe, 
who, towards the end of the 17th century, made the first regular Mahommedan 
establishment in this quarter of the Upper Carnatic. — (Lord Valentin , F. Bn- 
chanan, §c.) 

Vakaleer (or Waculeray). — A small town in the Mysore Rajas territories. 

9 miles S. W. of Colar. Lat. 13° 4' N. long. 78° 6' E. 

Waluru.— A town in the Mysore Raja s territories, situated in the neighbour- 
hood of Bangalore. In 1 800 it contained WO houses, and was one of the richest 
and best built on this frontier above the Ghauts, but it is badly supplied with 
water. The chief manufacture here is cotton cloth, which the inhabitants can 
afford to sell very cheap. In the adjacent country many coarse blankets are 
woven from the wool which their flocks produce. The sheep are shorn twice 
every year, once in the cold and once in the rainy season, and 12 sheep furnish 
sufficient wool to make a blanket six cubits long and three broad. Here also am 
distilleries of country rum, in which* the bark of the mimosa is an ingredient. 
Their mode of condensing the liquor is very rude, and the spirit never beifig 
rectified by a second distillation is execrable. The soil of some of the gardens 
is remarkably deep, as where wells have been dug it exceeds 20 feet in thick- 
ness. A gardener is in this place a separate profession from that of a farm er, 
and is considered interior rank 

Deonklla (or DeonhuUy) — A town in the Mysore territories, 23 miles N. N. 

E. from Bangalore. Lat. 13° M' N- long. 77° 47' E. Near to this town is a 
sect, a subdivision of the Murresoo Wocul caste, every woman of which* pre- 
vious to piercing the ears of her eldest daughter, preparatory to" her being be; 
trothed in marriage, must undergo the amputation ot the first joints of the third 



OF MYSORE. 


BANGALORE.] 


375 


and fourth fingers of the right hand. The operation is performed by the black- 
smith of the village, who, having placed the finger on a block, with a chisel per- 
forms the amputation. If the girl to be betrothed be motherless, and the mo- 
ther of the boy has not before undergone the operation, it is incumbent on her 
to lose the two joints above mentioned. In three districts this caste occupy 
above 2000 houses, and for the origin of this strange ceremony they relate a long 
legendary tale. — ( F. Buchanan , S$c.) 

Oosoor. — A town in the Mysore territories, 25 miles S. S. E. from Bangalore. 
Lat. 12° 42' N. long. 77° 52' E. This place surrendered without resistance in 
1791, to a detachment under Major Gowdie, although sufficiently strong for a 
defence. 

Ankosgerby.—A town in the Mysore territories, 40 miles S. E. from Banga- 
lore. Lat. 12° 39' N. long. 78° 8' E. 

Annicul, — A town in the Mysore territories, 20 miles S. S. E. from; Banga- 
lore. Lat. 12° 40' N. long. 77° 45' E. 

Bangalore ( Bangaluru ). — A large fortified town in the Mysore Raja's ter- 
ritories, 70 miles N. E. from Seringapatam. Lat. 12* 57' N. long. 77° 38' E t*he 
table land in the neighbourhood of Bangalore and towards Ooscotta is more 
than 3000 feet above the level of the sea. The fall to the north of Bangalore is 
very rapid after passing Nundydroog ; and the summit of Paughur, which rises 
high from its base, is nearly on a level with the table land at Bangalore. In the 
country west of Bangalore, after passing the range of hills on which Severndroog, 
Paughur, and other elevated stations, are situated, the surface has a sudden de- 
scent, and continues low considerably to the west of Seringapatam, where it 
begins again to ascend, approaching the mountains called the Western Ghauts. 
In A. D. 1800, the thermometer at this place never rose higher than 82°, or fell 
below 56° of Fahrenheit. 

At Bangalore and in the adjacent country, Indian hemp, gunny, or crotolaria 
juncea, is a considerable production, from which a coarse but very strong sack** 
doth is made. Castor oil is procured indifferently either from the large or small 
varieties of the ricinus. ‘It is the common lamp oil of the country, and also used 
in medicine. The gardens made by Hyder and Tippoo are extensive, and divided 
into square plots separated by walks. The Mahommedan fashion is to have a 
separate piece of ground allotted to each kind of plant. Thus one plot is en- 
tirely filled with rose trees, another with pomegranates, and so forth. In this 
climate the cypress and vine grow luxuriantly, the apple and the peach both 
produce fruit, strawberries also are raised in the Sultan’s ‘gardens, and probably 
most European fruits and vegetables would, in so elevated a region, arrive at 
perfection. Borne oak and pine plants, introduced from the Cape of Good Hope, 
appear to thrive well. 



376 THE PROVINCE [bangalore 

The fort, constructed by Hyder after the best fashion of Mahommedan archi- 
tecture, was destroyed by his son Tippoo after he found how little it Was fitted 
to resist British armies, but in 1802 it was repaired by the late Dewan Purneah. 
During Hyder s reign Bangalore was very populous. Tippoo began its misfor- 
tunes by prohibiting trade with the dominions of Arcot and Hyderabad, because 
fie detested the possessors of both countries. He then sent large quantities of 
goods, which he forced the merchants to take at a high rate. These oppressions 
greatly injured the place; but it was still populous, and many individuals were 
rich, when Lord Cornwallis arrived before it in great distress from want of pro- 
visions. This reduced him to the necessity of giving the assault immediately, 
and the town was consequently plundered. In 1805, however, it had so rapidly 
recovered from its state of depression, that the number of inhabitants was esti- 
mated at 60,000. Below the Western Ghauts the people of Bangalore princi- 
pally trade with the inhabitants of Mangalore, here named Codeal or Cowdal. 
To that place cotton cloths are sent from hence, both white and coloured are 
manufactured in the neighbourhood ; the returns are raw silk and silk cloths. 
The trade to Calicut was formerly considerable, but latterly much reduced. 
The chief * import from the Nizam and Maharatta territories is cotton wool, 
which is very considerable, and some coarse cotton thread ; the returns from 
Bangalore are made mostly in money, with some few cotton and silk cloths. 

The imports from the Company’s territories in the Lower Carnatic are -salt* 
sulphur, tin, lead, zinc, copper, European steel, paints, and glue ; indigo, nut- 
megs, cloves, camphor, and benjamin; raw silk and silk cloths; English: wool- 
lens, cloths, canvas, and blankets ; English and native paper ; English hardware, 
glass ware, and looking-glasses ; china, sugar candy, Bengal sugar, dates, and 
almonds. Theireturns from Bangalore are chiefly betel nut, sandal wood, black 
pepper, true cardamoms, shicai, and tamarinds. The balance of money is gene- 
rally due by the low country merchant. Tanjore merchants bring hither pearls, 
and take away money. 

At Bangalore betel nut is the m^st considerable article of trade, and next to 
that the country black pepper and sandal wood. Many cumlies or black blank- 
ets are sold here. A kind of drug merchants, named Gandhaki, trade to a con- 
siderable amount. There is a great deal of salt brought from the Lower Carnatic, 
as none but the poorest people will eat that made in the country. Goods of all 
torts are transported on the backs of bullocks, which -animals, when employed in 
carriage, are always shod with light iron shoes. The salt and grain carrier ge- 
nerally use asses or a very poor sort of bullock, which get nothing to eatfexeept 
what they pick up by the road side. The cloths made here being entirely for 
country use, and never having been exported to Europe are made of dfi&raat 
sizes to adapt them to the dresses of the natives. The Hindoos seldom employ 



OF MYSORE. 


MAGGEH1.] 


3 77 


tailors, but wrap round .their bodies the cloth as it comes from the loom. The 
silk weavers make cloth of a very strong fabric of the silk that is imported in a 
raw state, but which may in time be raised in the country. The introduction 
pf the silk worm has not yet succeeded in the Lower Carnatic, but there is rea- 
son to believe the country above the Ghauts, having a more temperate climate, 
will be found more suitable. There is a small duty levied here on every loom, 
which is gradually diminished on those who keep many. At the weekly markets 
the cotton is bought up by the poor women of all castes except the Brahmin, 
for these never spin, nor do their husbands ever plough the soil. The women 
of all other castes spin, and at the weekly markets sell the thread to the 
weavers. 

At Bangalore there are many inhabitants of the Mahommedan religion, and 
Owing to the change of government many of them suffering great distress,. 
Above the Ghauts the leprosy, in which the skin becomes white, is very com- 
mon among the natives. The persons troubled with it enjoy in every other 
respect good health, and their children are like those of other people. The only 
year used above the Ghauts is the Chandramanam or lunar year, by which among 
the Brahmins all religious ceremonies are performed. At Bangalore the Chris- 
tian era of 1800 corresponded with the year 4893 of the Cali-yug, and 1722 of 
Salivahanam, which is in universal use in the south of India. This place was 
first acquired by the Mysore state in 1687, during the reign of Chick Deo Raj, 
and was stormed by the army under Lord Cornwallis in 1791. Travelling dis- 
tance from Seringapatam 74 miles; from Madras 215 ; and from Hyderabad 
352 miles. — (F. Buchanan , Wilks, Lord Valentia , Lambton , A . H. Hamilton , 8$c.) 

Ootraduegum (Utara Durga, the northern fort ). — A town in the Mysore ter- 
ritories, 48 miles N. E. from Seringapatam. Lat. 12° 57' N. long. 77° 12' E. 

Maggeri. — A town in the Mysore Rajas territories, 22 miles west from 
Bangalore. Lat. 12° 57' N. long. 77° 19' E. In this hilly tract of country there 
are many iron forges, the metal being procured partly from the black s&nd which 
is found in the rainy season in the channels of all the torrents of the country, 
and partly from an ore that is found at Ghettipoor in great abundance. During 
the four months of heavy rains, four men are able to collect as much sand as 
a furnace can smelt for the remainder of the year. Steel is also manufactured 
here. In the adjacent woods round Maggeri and Sevemdroog the sandal wood 
of the English merchants is found. When the tree is cut, the common size of it 
at the root is nine inches diameter ; but only one-third of the tree is valuable, 
the remainder being white wood and totally devoid of smell. The wood is found 
to be of the best quality in trees that have grown on a rocky soil. The bottom 
of the stem, under ground, immediately above the division into roots, is the most 

VOL. it. 3 c 



378 THE PROVINCE [ramgerby. 

valuable part of the tree. There are also a few teak trees in this neighbourhood, 
but in general this valuable timber does not grow of a sufficient size for* use. — 
( F. Buchanan , 8$c.) 

Severndroog (Suvama Durga , the golden fortress ). — A strong hill fort in the 
Mysore Raja's territories, 20 miles W. by S. from Bangalore. Lat. 12* 53' N. 
long. 77° 20 E. This fortress is surrounded by a forest of natural wood or 
jungle, several miles in depth, thickened with clumps of planted bamboos, to 
render it impenetrable. It is impossible to invest or blockade SeverndrOog 
closely, the rock forming a base of eight or ten miles in circumference, which, 
with the jungle and lesser hills that surround it, include a circle of 20 miles. 
From this base it is reckoned to rise half a mile in perpendicular height. The 
huge mountain has further {he advantage of being divided above by a chasm 
which separates the upper part into two hills, each with their defences forming 
distinct citadels, and capable of being maintained independent of the lower 
works. This stupendous fortress, so difficult to approach, is no less famed for its 
noxious atmosphere, occasioned by the surrounding hills and woods, than for its 
wonderful size and strength. 

Sevemdroog was besieged during the first war with Tippoo, in 1791, by the 
British forces, when, after breaching the outer wall, the troops advanced to the 
storm. Lord Cornwallis in person superintending the attack. On the appearance 
of the Europeans advancing, the garrison, being seized with an unaccountable 
panic, fled, and the breach was carried without meeting or even overtaking the 
enemy. The main body of the latter endeavoured to gain the western hill, which 
had they effected, the siege must have been recommenced ; but a small party of 
the 52d and 71st Regiments pressed so hard upon them, that they entered the 
different barriers along with them, and gained possession of the top of the 
mountain. Above one hundred of the enemy were killed on the western hiU, 
hnd many fell down the precipices in attempting to escape from the assailants. 
Thus, in less than one hour, in open day, this fortress, hitherto deemed impreg- 
nable, was stormed without the loss of a man, only one private soldier having 
been wounded in the assault. — ( Dirom , fyc.) 

Ooscotta. — A small town in the Mysore Raja’s territories, 16 miles N. E. 
from Bangalore.* Lat. 13° 5'N. long. 77° 51' E. This is a neat little town, 
separated by a valley from a hill fort. Here, as in other parts of Mysore, the 
small river has been converted into a tank by a lofty mound carried across the 
valley. 

Ramgerry ( Rama-giri ). — A small town in the Mysore territories, 46 miles 
N. E. from Seringapatam. Lat. 12° 43' N. long. 77° 25' E. Lac is produced 
on several of the neighbouring hills* upon the tree called jala, but cattle is the 



MAILCOTTA.] OF MYSORE. 379 

principal object of the people around this place. In all diseases of the ox kind, 
the grand remedy is actual cautery fancifully applied in different places. Al- 
though the killing of an animal of the cow kind is considered by the Hindoos as 
actual murder, there is no creatdre whose sufferings exceed those of the labour- 
ing cattle in Hindostan. The usual price here of a middling ox five years old, 
some years back, used to be 16s. 9d. sterling. 

In this hilly tract there is a wild race of men called by the other natives Cad’ 
Eligara, but who call themselves Cat Chensa. They subsist on game, wild 
roots, herbs, and fruits, and a little grain purchased from the farmers in the plains, 
which they are enabled to do by collecting some drugs, wax, and honey. Their 
language is a dialect of the Tamul, with occasionally a few Caraata or Telinga 
words intermixed. — ( F. Buchanan, 8$c.) 

Chinapatam. — An open town in the Mysore territories, containing about 
1000 houses, with a handsome stone fort at a little distance. Lat. 13® 36' N. 
long. 77° 17' E. 39 iniles E. N. E. from Seringapatam. At this place there is 
a small manufactory of glass, and another of steel wire for the strings of musical 
instruments, which last are reckoned the best in India. A family at Chinapatam 
has the art of making very fine white sugar, which formerly was kept for the 
sole use of the court at Seringapatam. Such monopolies of good tilings were 
favourite practices with the arbitrary governments of Seringapatam. — (F. Bu- 
chanan, 8$c.) 

Mala vi llt ( Malayavali ). — A town in the Mysore Raja’s territories, 26 miles 
E. from Seringapatam. Lat. 12° 23' N. long. 77° 7' E. This is a large mud 
fort separated into two portions by a transverse wall, and was given as a jaghire 
with the adjacent country to Tippoo by his father Hyder. About two iniles S. 
W. from Malavilly is a large reservoir, where, during the last war, Tippoo had 
an action with General Harris, in which he was defeated. After the battle he 
sent and destroyed the place, but above 500 houses have since been rebuilt. 
Near to Malavilly iron ore is smelted, from whence Seringapatam receives its 
chief supply. — (F. Buchanan, 8$c.) 

Tosuau ( or Yadavapuri ). — A town in the Mysore, near to which are still to 
be seen the remains of the wall of an ancient city, which indicate that they must 
have once been of great extent. The reservoir is also a very great work, and is 
said to have been formed by Rama Anuja, about the year 1000 of the Christian 
eta. It is made by an embankment between two mountains, which Tippoo at- 
tempted to destroy by cutting a trench through the mound, in the hope (it is 
Said) of finding treasure at the bottom. The tank was repaired after Ids over- 
throw, and the town has in consequence much recovered. — (F. Buchanan, %c.) 

Mailcotta (MaUcot*y),—A town in the Mysore Raja’s territories, situated 

a o 



THE PROVINCE 


380 


[SBAVAMA BE JUJU LA. 


on a high rocky hill, commanding a view of the valley watered by the Cavery, 
17 miles N. from Seringapatam. Lat. 12° 39' N. tong. 76 s 42' E. Here is one 
of the most celebrated places of Hindoo worship, as having been honoured with 
the actual presence of an avatar, qr incarnation of Vishnu as Narasingha, or the 
man lion, under which character he founded one of the temples. It is also one 
of the principal seats of the Ori Vaishnavam Brahmins. The large temple is a 
square building of great dimensions, and entirely surrounded by a colonade; 
but it is a mean piece of architecture outwardly. The columns are of very rude 
workmanship and only six feet high. The structure as it stands, is said to have 
been put into its present form by Rama Anuja Acharya, who is generally sup* 
posed to have lived about A. D. 1000. 

The tank is a very fine one, and surrounded by buildings for the accommoda- 
tion of religious persons. The natives believe that every year the waters of the 
Ganges are miraculously conveyed to it by subterraneous passages. The jewels 
belonging to the great temple are very valuable, and even Tippoo Sultan was 
afraid to seize them. — ( F. Buchanan, 8$c.) 

Nag am ang alum. — A large square mud fort in the Mysore territories, 26 
miles N. by E. from Seringapatam, containing a square citadel in its centre. 
Lat. 12° 48' N. long. 76° 48' E. 

Sbavana Belgula. — A village in the territories of the Mysore Raja, 33 
miles N. by W. from Seringapatam. Lat. 12° 5 T N. long. 76® 42' E. This 
place is celebrated as being the principal seat of the Jain worship, once so pre- 
valent over the south of India. Near to the village are two rocky hills, one of 
which, named Indra-betta, is a temple of the kind named Busty, and a high place 
with a statue of Gomuta Raya, 70 feet 3 inches in height. The Duke of Wel- 
lington, who visited this place, was of opinion that the rock had been cut down 
until nothing but the image remained. 

The Jains constitute a sect of Hindoos differing in some important tenets 
from the Brahminical, but following in other respects similar practices. The es- 
sential character of Hindoo institutions is the distribution of the people into 
four great tribes. The Jainas admit the same division into four tribes, Brah- 
mins, Khetries, Vaisyas, and Sudras, and perform like ceremonies bom the. birth 
of a male until his marriage They observe similar fasts, and practise still more 
strictly the received maxims of refraining from injury to any sentient being. 
They appear to recognize as subordinate deities, some, if not all the gods of the 
prevailing sects ; but do not worship in particular the five principal gods of these 
sects, nor address prayers, nor perform sacrifices to the sun or fire. They differ 
also from the Brahminical Hindoos in assigning the highest pla ce to etotia 
deified saints, who, according to their creed, have successively become superior 



TOOKAVAKAIRY.] OF MYSORE. 381 

gods. Another doctrine in which they materially disagree with the ortho- 
dox Hindoos is the rejection of the Vedas, the divine authority of which they 
deny. 

In this particular the Jainas agree with the Buddhists, or Sangatas, who 
equally deny the divine authority of the Vedas, and who in a similar manner 
worship certain pre-eminent saints, admitting likewise, has subordinate deities, 
the whole pantheon of the orthodox Hindoos. These two sects (the Jains and 
the Buddhists) differ in regard to the history of the personages whom they have 
deified ; and it may hence be concluded that they had distinct founders, but 
the original notion seems to have been the same. All agree in the belief of 
transmigration. Jaina priests usually wear a broom adapted to sweep insects 
out of the way, lest they should tread on the minutest being. In Hindostan, 
the Jainas are usually called Syauras, but distinguish themselves into Sravacas 
(Shrawuks) and Yatis, or laity and clergy. 

Parswa, or Parswanath, the 23d deified saint of the Jainas, and who perhaps 
was tire founder of the sect, was born in the suburbs of Benares, and died at 
the age of 100 years, on mount Samet at Parsonauth, among the hills bordering 
Bengal and Bahar. Some of the other sanctified places of the Jains are Papa- 
puri, near Rajagriha in Bahar ; Champapuri, near Boglipoor; Chandravati, dis- 
tant 10 miles from Benares ; and the ancient city of Hastinapoor in the Delhi 
province ; also Satrunjaya, said to be situated in the west of India. The. my- 
thology of the orthodox or Brahminical Hindoos, their present chronology 
adapted to astronomical periods, their legendary tales and their mystical alle- 
gories, are abundantly absurd; but the Jainas and Buddhists greatly surpass 
them in monstrous exaggerations of the same kind. 

This village (Sravana Belgula) is wholly inhabited by Jainas, who differ con- 
siderably from those of Tulava (Canara). They assert that the Bunts ofTulava 
are Vaisyas, and will not acknowledge that any Sudras belong to their sect. On 
the Bengal side of India, the Jains are mostly of the Vaisya caste, and in the 
Mysore are wholly addicted to trade and merchandize. They are now thinly 
scattered all over India, being nowhere numerous except in Canara. — ( Cole - 
broake, F. Buchanan, Mackenzie, 8$c.) 

Aliambadt. — A town in the Mysore province, 74 miles E. S. E. from Se- 
ringapatam. Lat. 12° 8' N. long. 77° 47' E. 

Chinbatpatam (Chin Raya Patam ). — A town in the Mysore Raja’s terri- 
tories, 87 miles N. by W. from Seringapatam. Lat. 12° 62 N. long. 76° 29 E. 

To oba vak airy. — A town in the Mysore territories, 62 miles N. from Serin* 
gapatam, Lat. 18° 10’ N. long. 76° 48 ' E. 



382 THE PROVINCE [narsingpoor. 

Periapatam (Priya Patana). — A town in the Mysore Raja’s territories, to- 
wards the borders of toe Coorg country, 37 miles west from Seringapatam. 
Lat. 12 s 22' N. long. 76° 11' E. This city and domain formerly belonged to a 
poligar family named Nandiraj. About 160 years ago the chief was attacked 
by Chica Deva Raya, the Curtur of Mysore, and finding himself unable to resist 
so powerful an enemy, he killed his wives and children, and then rushed into 
the midst of his enemies, where he died. The desolation of this country ap- 
pears to have arisen from its being a frontier, between the sovereigns of Mysore 
and Coorg. On the approach of General Abercrombie’s army in 1790, Tippoo 
ordered both toe town and fort to be destroyed. The fortifications are now 
quite ruinous, and in the inner fort there are no inhabitants except some tigers. 
The surrounding country is beautiful, but at the time it was conquered by the 
British did not contain one-fourth the number of inhabitants necessary for its 
cultivation. The natives in the vicinity declare they have never seen ice or snow 
on the top even of the highest hills. Bettadapoor, a hill about 15 miles north 
of Periapatam, is probably about 2000 feet above the level of toe surrounding 
country, which has been conjectured to be 4000 feet above the level of the sea. 
Periapatam, in the time of peace, is an entrepot of trade between the Coorg 
and Mysore principalities. 

Sandal wood grows on the skirts of the forests. It is a strong soil that pro- 
duces the best sandal wood, which in 12 years attains the most suitable size for 
being cut. Among the trees are abundance of teak. Hegodu Deva Cotay, 
about 20 miles to toe south of Periapatam, is one of the most considerable dis- 
tricts for the production of sandal wood. To prepare the sandal wood, the bil- 
lets should be buried in dry ground for two months, during which time the 
white ants will eat up all the outer wood without touching the heart, which is 
the sandal. The deeper the colour, the higher the perfume ; but toe root san- 
dal is the best. The largest billets are sent to China, and the middle-sized 
billets used in India. The chops, fragments, and smaller assortment of billets, 
are best for the Arabian market, and from them the essential oil is distilled. 
The whole sandal wood of Hindostan is now in the possession of the British 
government and the Mysore Raja, and as it is an article of luxury, it is A vary 
legitimate subject of monopoly. — ( F. Buchanan, 8$c.) 

Humpapura. — An open village in the Mysore Raja’s territories, situated on 
the banks of the Kapini rivet, which in the rainy season is here 60 yards wide, 
and at all seasons contains running water. Lat. 12° 10' N. long. 76" 33' E. 23 
miles south from Seringapatam. 

Narsingpoor ( Narmnghapura ). — This town stands on the of the 



NABMHQPOOR.] OF MYSORE. 383 

Cavery river immediately below its junction with the Kapini, 21 miles S. E. 
from Seringapatam. Lat. 12° 13' N. long. 76° 55' E. In 1800 it contained 
above 300 houses. A few miles further down, the Cavery in the month of 
October is a large and deep river, flowing with a gentle stream about a quar- 
ter of a mile in width. In the hot season it is fordable, but after heavy rains it 
rises above its level in October, 10 or 12 feet perpendicular, and completely.fills 
the channel. The only ferry boats here are what are called dories, which are 
baskets of a circular form, eight or ten feet in diameter, and covered with leather. 
(F. Buchanan, ^c.) 



THE PROVINCE OF COIMBATOOR. 

(COIAHATOBO). 


A small province in the south of India, situated above the Eastern Ghaut 
mountains, about the Uth degree of north latitude. To the north it is bounded 
by the Mysore territories ; on the south by Dindigul ; on the east it has Salem 
and Trichinopoly ; and on the west the province of Malabar. Under this col- 
lectorate are included the divisions of Caroor, Satimangalum and Daraporam ; 
and the whole province may be reckoned from north to south 50 miles by about 45 
from east to west. The table land, or rather the general height of the low coun- 
try in Coimbatoor, for it is much undulated, is about 900 feet above the level of 
the sea ; and towards Tinnevelly it falls to between 4 and 500 feet ; but to the 
northward it shoots up to a prodigious elevation : the Kumbetarine hill (lat. 
1 1° 35' N. long. 77° 20' E.) being reckoned by Colonel Lambton 5548 feet above 
the level of the Ocean. Above 40 miles due west from Daraporam, there is an 
opening in the Western Ghaut chain of mountains, named the Palighaut Cherry 
pass, which is in width, at its eastern extremity, seven miles, and in length at 
least 31 miles. This pass is shaped like a funnel, being more than double the 
width at the end which opens towards the Malabar coast, as compared with the 
end contiguous to the Coimbatoor district. It is nearly on a level with the lands 
on either side of the Ghauts, so that there is a free passage for the north-west 
and south-west winds from the Malabar coast. The distance of the eastern 
opening from the western sea, at the nearest point, is about 70 miles. 

Coimbatoor is watered by several rivers ; the most considerable is the Ca- 
yery, which is filled by both monsoons ; by the S. W. in June, July, and August, 
and by the north-east in October, November, and December. In December and 
January the thermometer ranges here from 62° to 80° in the shade, in May from 
79° to 97° ; yet the climate is pleasant. Towards the end of January, and in 
February, the dews fall heavily, and near the mountains the morning fogs con- 
tinue until nine o’clock. In the month of March, rain is very uncommon: upon 
the whole the climate of the Coimbatoor district may be described as healthy, 
yet at certain seasons the high lands are dangerous. The- soil is in general dry; 
but in the vicinity of the hills, and also in some of the southern portions, there 



PROVINCE OF COIMBATOOR. 385 

is muck low marshy ground; and although the territory may be described in 
general terms as an open country, it is in many places diversified with woods, 
wastes, and jungles. From its.great elevation, the soil of Coimbatoor is gene- 
rally dry, and well adapted for the dry grain cultivation. 

In North Coimbatoor, near Mulu and Coleagala, the cultivation is equal to any 
in India* and consists chiefly of rice fields watered by large reservoirs. The 
summit of the Eastern Ghaut mountains in this quarter are from 1500 to 2000 
feet above the level of the upper country, which is here very beautiful, and in a 
better state of cultivation than the Mysore. The tanks are numerous, but 
mostly in ruins ; and although fertile, this part of the province is but thinly in- 
habited, and the hills produce but little timber. In tip** mountainous tract there 
are two rainy seasons ; the first is in the month following the vernal equinox, 
and the second lasts the two months before and the two months after the au- 
tumnal equinox. The people in the neighbourhood consider the ox as a living 
god, who gives them their bread ; and in every village there are one or two 
bulls, to whom monthly or weekly wor&nip is performed ; and when one of them 
dies he is buried with great ceremony. From Candhully to Mahally, in North 
Coimbatoor, much of the country has been formerly cultivated, but is now 
waste. The strata of the Ghauts in this quarter run north and south, and 
are vertical. Being much intersected with fissures, they are of little use in 
building. 

Near to the town of Coimbatoor the soil is in general good, and tolerably clear 
of rocks and stones. The hedges are few, and the country remarkably bare of 
trees. In this neighbourhood all kinds of soils are cultivated for gardens, and 
the variety occasions some difference in their value ; but the depth below the 
surface at which the water stands is the chief cause of the variation of the rent. 
In some gardens the water is within eight cubits of the surface ; in others so 
deep as 18. The bagait, or gardens watered by machines, called capilly and 
yatam, are of great importance, as this mode of cultivation enables a small ex- 
tent of ground to support many persons and to pay a high rent ; it is also less 
liable to fail for want of rain. Taking the whole province of Coimbatoor to- 
gether, the average of the wet cultivation is little more than three per cent, of 
$hte total cultivation. Many sheep are bred throughout the district, especially 
in the Aranasf division. The hills west of the town are inhabited by the Mala- 
sir, Mudagar, Eriligaru, and Todear castes. 

In South Coimbatoor the rice grounds along the banks of the Amaravati are 
extensiveand fully cultivated ; further on, the soil becomes poor, has many large 
projecting rocks, and but few enclosures. Throughout the whole province there 
sure earths impregnated with muriatic salts, and others with nitrates, both of 
voi* If* 3 n 



386 THE PROVINCE [coimbatoob. 

which have occasionally been made into culinary salt and saltpetre. Hus earth 
seems to contain nitre ready formed, as no potash is added to it by die manu- 
facturers. Most of the well-water has a saline taste. With respect to the useful 
arts, the inhabitants of Coimbatoor appear to be as far behind those of Mysore 
in intelligence as these last are behind the natives of Madras and Calcutta ; yet 
on the whole they appear to enjoy comparative comfort. The towns are in ge- 
neral well built, and some of them, such as Coimbatoor, Daraporam, Bha- 
vany, and Caroor, large and populous. The houses are, for the most part, well 
raised, and their roofs having a considerable slope the inhabitants suffer but little 
from the heavy rains. As is the case in most parts of Bengal where arts have 
not been introduced by foreigners, the only one that has been carried to tolera- 
ble perfection is weaving. The Vaylalars here are a numerous tribe of the 
Tamul race, and esteemed of pure Sudra caste. 

The province of Coimbatoor in ancient times was named Kanjam, and came 
under the dominion of the Mysore Rajas about 165 years ago; It now forms 
one of the collectorships under the Madras presidency, having been ceded to 
the British government in 1799. In the years 1809, 10, and 11, an epidemic 
fever prevailed, which destroyed a great number of the inhabitants and threat- 
ened to depopulate the whole district. From the 1st of January, 1810, to the 
30th of April, 1811, there died in this collectorate 12,458 males, and 9993 fe- 
males, or 22,451, out of a total population estimated at 596,606 persons. In 
1817, the gross collection of the public revenue was as follows; 

Land revenue 581,995 star pagodas. 

Salt 

Land customs 35,224 

Exclusive sale of spirits (abkarry) . . . 6,169 

Sundry small branches of revenue . . . 

Stamps 2,786 

Tobacco monopoly 40,719 

Total . . . 666,894 

(F. Buchanan, Hodgson, Medical Report, Lambton, Qc. 8gc.) 

Amaravati River. — A small river which flows past the town and fortress 
of Caroor in the Coimbatoor district, on which account it is usually termed flu 
Caroor river. After a short course it joins the Cavery about ten miles below 
Caroor. 

Bhavani River. — A river of the Coimbatoor district, which flows past the 
town of SaUimungalum and afterwards joins the Cavery at Bhavani Kudal. 

Coimbatoor. — The capital of the preceding province, situated in lat. ltf' '&• K,' 



T*S THEE* JTAADS.] OF COIMBATOOR. 387 

lo&g. 77® 6' EL 112 miles S. by E. from Seringapatam. This city suffered much 
hf the frequent wars between the British and Mysore states, but has greatly 
recovered. In 1801* it contained only 2000 houses, although in Hyder’s reign 
It had double the number. The town stands high and dry, clear of the Pali- 
ghautcherry pass, and is tolerably built, but the well-water is considered brackish, 
and supposed by the natives to cause the cutaneous diseases which are common 
among the poorer classes. There is a mosque here which was built by Tippoo, 
who sometimes made Coimbatoor the place of his residence ; at present it is the 
head quarters of a cavalry regiment. The exports from hence are tobacco, cot- 
ton, wool, thread, cloth, sugar, jagory, capsicums, onions, betel leaf, and jiva 
and danga, two carminative seeds. In the neighbourhood of Penura, two miles 
from Coimbatoor, both culinary salt and saltpetre are procured by lixiviating 
the soil. At Topumbetta, about five miles north from Coimbatoor, iron is 
smelted from black sand. Cotton, both raw and spun, is exported in consider- 
able quantities to the Malabar province. At Perura is a celebrated temple de- 
dicated to Siva, called* Mail (high) Chitturabra, to distinguish it from another 
Chittumbra near to Pondicherry. The idol is said to have placed itself here 
many years ago ; but it is only 3000 years since the temple was erected over it 
by a Raja of Madura. The building is highly ornamented after the Hindoo 
fashion, but the whole is utterly destitute of elegance. The figures are not 
only extremely rude, but some of them indecent. When Tippoo issued a ge- 
neral order for the destruction of all idolatrous buildings, he excepted only this 
and the temples of Mailcotta and Seringapatam. 

The hereditary chief of Coimbatoor is of the Vaylalar tribe ; the present, 
by his own account, being the 20th in descent from the founder of the town. 
The family originally paid tribute to the Rajas of Madura. In the year 1783, 
Coimbatoor was taken from Tippoo by the southern army, but restored at the 
peace in 1784. In the war of 1790, it was early taken possession of by the 
British troops, but afterwards besieged by those of Tippoo, who were repulsed 
in an attempt to storm it by a weak garrison under Lieutenant Chalmers. Sub- 
sequently it surrendered to Cummer ud Deen Khan, Tippoo’s general, and the 
garrison, in breach of the capitulation, detained prisoners until the general peace 
of 1792. Along with the province it was transferred to the British government 
in A* D. 1799, Travelling distance from Madras, 300 miles; from Seringapa- 
tam, 122 miles. — (F. Buchanan , Dirom , FullarUm , llennell , Medical Reports, §c.) 

Tif § Three Naads. — The low country of Coimbatoor is separated from Ma- 
labar and Wynaad, by a mountainous region 30 miles in length and 16 in breadth, 
comprehending* an area of about 500 square miles. This elevated tract is divided 
into three Naads* or countries, viz* the Paungnaad, the Todiemaad, and the 

3 n2 



388 THE PROVINCE £tbx thbxx baabs. 

Maikn&ad. The name given to the whole country is mi Gemis, or the Bine 
Mountains, which designation however belongs properly to but one part of the 
range, and more especially to a remarkably high peak. The exact height of this 
tract has not yet been accurately ascertained, but it probably exceeds any to the 
south of theChumbul, and certainly looks down on all the surrounding countries. 
It was visited by a party of Europeans in January, 1819, who found the cold so 
severe as to freeze the water in their pitchers to the thickness of half an inch, 
while the thermometer in the adjacent low country rose to 84°. All over the 
mountainous and intervening vallies, raspberries, red and white, and 'strawberries 
were growing in abundance, as also white roses, marigolds, balsams, black, 
pepper, and particular sorts of bastard cinnamon. The soil is remarkably fertile, 
and capable of yielding two crops in the year ; the chief productions are wheat, 
barley, opium, garlic, mustard, and different kinds of millets. In January, 1819, 
notwithstanding the severity of the season, peas and poppies were found in full 
blossom, the frost not appearing to have any ill effect on the vegetation. The 
vallies are singularly well irrigated, being crossed by hill streams in almost every 
direction, some chalybeate, and others of a temperature exceeding that of the 
atmosphere. These streams are perennial, and empty themselves into the 
Bhavani river on the one side and into the Magar on the other. 

The Three Naads are inhabited by three classes of persons, whose languages, 
maimers, and customs are entirely distinct ; viz. the Todevies, the Koties, and 
the Bergies. The two first are considered aborigines of the hills, and the Tode- 
vies of a caste superior to the Koties. The Todevies are exclvsively>herdsmen, 
without fixed habitations, wandering about from pasture to pasture with their 
herds of buffaloes. Their huts are of a semicircular form, strongly built with 
bamboos and mud, havin D a hole near the ground sufficiently large for their, own 
ingress, and for the egress of the smoke. It is said that all the males of a family 
have only one wife among them, but no mention is made in what manner rite 
surplus females are disposed of. The men are described as being stout and 
athletic, with strongly marked faces and handsome features ; the women very 
much the reverse, yet with the European caste of countenance. Both sexes are 
fair in comparison with their neighbours, which, in additiorito an expression of 
visage unusual in India, may have given rise to the report long prevalent, that a 
white race of inhabitants existed among these mountains. Every individual of 
these tribes go bare headed and footed at all seasons, it being contrary 1 to their 
customs to wear either turban or sandal. They also permit rite hair of their 
hands and beards to grow without restraint. 

The Koties have no resembhmoe in appearance to rite Todevies, and, except 
that both desses go without covering head or foot, their maimers and certains' 



4VIVAUTA.] OP COIMBATOOR. 

•re also dissimilar. The persons of the Koties are more diminutive, their com- 
plexions darker, and their features much less expressive. They are cultivators 
and artisans, as well as musicians and dancers. The Bergies, are the principal 
cultivators and landholders, and are supposed to have migrated from the Mysore 
about 300 years ago, and to have obtained their lands from the Todevies, to 
whom they still pay a few handfuls of grain for each field. The language of the 
Bergies is a dialect of the Canarese, that of the Todevies and Koties is supposed 
to be a dialect of the Tumul ; but it is a singular fact that the Todevies cannot 
apeak the language of the Koties, nor the Koties of the Todevies, and that both 
of their languages are unintelligible to the Bergies. Although the soil and 
climate of these hills appear so well adapted for sheep, there are none; but 
black cattle are numerous, and possess more bone and substance than those seen 
in the low country. The Todevies have numerous flocks of buffaloes, and subsist 
principally by them. The domestic fowls are uncommonly large, and game is 
abundant, especially a reddish coloured hare. Wolves have been seen here, and 
the inhabitants assert that the tiger harbours among the hills. — (Public Jour- 
nal*, Ssc.) 

Daraporam. — A populous town in the Coimbatoor province, situated in a 
fine, high, open country, with the river Amaravati at the distance of about half 
a mile. Lat. 10° 37' N. long. 77° 35' E. lo9 miles S. S. E. from Seringapatam. 
Daraporam is about 40 miles distant from the great mountains that run south, 
and about 15 from the Verapatchery or Pilney hills, in the Dindigul province. At 
this place there is a large mud fort, and in the vicinity are two fine canals that 
water much rice land in a good state of cultivation. The principal article raised 
here is tobacco, and a crop of grain is afterwards taken from the same ground. 
The town and fort were taken from Tippoo by the southern army in June, 1783, 
but restored to him at the peace of 1784. In 1805, it was the head quarters of 
a military corps. — (F. Buchanan , Fullarton, Medical Reports, 8$c.) 

Ani malaya (Ani Malaya, or the Elephant hill). — A town in the Coimbatoor 
province, 23 miles S. E. from Palighautcherry. Lat. 10° 3T N. long. 77° T E. 
This place contains 400 houses, and is situated on the west side of the river 
Alima. It is a common thoroughfare between Malabar and the southern part of 
the Carnatic, being placed opposite to the wide passage, that is, between the 
southern end of the Ghauts of Karoata and the hills that run north from Cape 
Oomoti n. The Madura Rajas, formerly lords of the country, built a fort dose 
td the river, which having fallen to ruins, the materials were removed by the 
Mysore Rajas, and a new fort built at some distance to the westward. The 
Ammalaya poligars are 12 in number. The greater part of the dry field in the 
neighbourhood is now overgrown with woods; the country having been much 



990 THE PROVINCE [cAiooa. 

devastated by the Nairs. The exclusive privilege of collecting drags in the 
hills south from Animalaya is here rented to a particular person. The elephant* 
are increasing in number, owing to their not having been hunted for some years 
past. The forests are very extensive and contain abundance of teak and other 
valuable timber, but unfortunately it is too remote from water carriage to permit 
its exportation. — (F. Buchanan , §c.) 

Palachy ( Palasi )> — A town in South Coimbatoor, 16 miles S. by E. from 
the town of Coimbatoor. Lat. 10° 39' N. long. 77° 6' E. This place contains 
a small temple and about 30(1 houses, with a small fort adjacent, and from this 
point the streams run east and west to the Coromandel and Malabar coasts. In 
the vicinity of Palachy, during the year 1800, a pot was dug up containing a 
great many coins of Augustus and Tiberius. They were of two kinds, but all 
of the same value, each weighing 56 grains. 

Aravacourciiy. — A small town in.the Coimbatoor district, 54 miles W. by S. 
from Trichinopoly. Lat. 10°4rN. long. 77°54'E. This place was formerly 
inhabited by a person of the Bayda caste, named Arava, the name signifying the 
seat of Arava. It afterwards became subject to Madura, and then to Mysore, 
the Curtur or sovereign of which built near the town a neat fort, and gave it the 
name of Vijaya Mangalam, by the Mahommedans pronounced Bijamangle. 
About the end of Hyder’s reign an English army took the fort, at which time the 
town was destroyed. In 1800 it contained above 300 houses, the inhabitants of 
which mostly spoke the Tamul language.-^ F. Buchanan , 8$c.) 

CArtooRf Carur). — This is a large and handsome town with wide and handsome 
streets, and contains a considerable population. It stands on a rising ground in 
an open dry country, on the north side of the Amaravati river, and not far from 
the Cavery. Lat. 10° 53' N. long. 78° 4' E. 52 miles W. by N. from Trichi- 
nopoly. At a little distance from the town is a neat fort with a large temple, the 
spire over the gate way of which is 88 feet in height, length at the base 64 feet, 
breadth 62 feet. The pagoda was destroyed by mines when besieged by Colonel 
Long in 4781, and the fort abandoned in 1801. The supply of water in the 
Amaravati river does not last the whole year, so that in some seasons there is 
Only one crop of rice. Near its banks the rice grounds are extensive and fully 
cultivated. This river was the ancient boundary between the dominions of 
Mysore and Tnchmopoly; and this conterminal situation, under the security of 
a*stroug fort, and its rule over a rich and extensive district, rendered it a place 
of gyeat mercantile resort and opulence. It was taken during theCarnatiewar 
of 1760, and probably before that event no European troops had ever advanced 
*o for west inland. It is 74 miles distant from the Western Ghauts and 4 30 from 
Ae Pilny mountains .— f F. Buchanan. A.H. Hamilton* Ormc* Mcdkal lUports t £$c.) 



SIVANA SAHUDBA.] OP COIMBATOOR. 391 

Bhavani Kudal. — A town in the Coimbatoor district, 58 miles N. E. fion 
the town of Coimbatoor. Lat. 11° 26' N.' long. 77*44' E. This town stands at 
the conflux of the Bhavani and the Cavery, on which account it is much resorted 
to by the Hindoos, who consider it a place of more than common sanctity. To the 
south east, towards Sunkerry Droog, there is a good deal of jungle, and it is rocky 
to the southward. Along the banks of the Cavery lies an extensive flat peMbaular 
country, and to the north-west are the rich and picturesque banks of the Bhavani. 
The town is not so large as Coimbatoor, but it is well built, and, n tl wit hstanding 
its peni ns ular-site, dry and* comfortable. Here are two celebrated 
one dedicated to Vishnu and the other to Siva, which last was built by a polig ar 
named Guttimodaly, who held all the neighbouring countries as a feudato ry 
under the Raja of Madura. At that period the dominions of the latter, including 
Salem, Trichinopoly, and all the country south of Sholia or Tanjore, were called 
by the general title of Angaraca, and comprehended the two countries of Chera 
and Pandava. At Apogadal, lp miles from this place, a sandy loam is reckoned 
most favourable for the cultivation of rice ; and according to its four qualities 
lets for £4 : 2 : 3, £3 : 12$. and £3 : 4#. per acre. Inferior soils let so low as 18s. 
per acre. — ( Medical Reports, F, Buchanan . <$c.) 

Neexnjapettah. — A small town in the northern division of Coimbatoor, 88 
miles S. E. from Seringapatam. Lat. 1 1° 40' N. long. 77° 48' E. This place is 
situated on the west bank of the Cavery, which here begins to rise about the 
26th of May, and is at its highest frond the 13th of July until the 13th of August, 
before the rainy season commences. As this advances it decreases in size, but 
3oes not become fordable until after the 11th of January. Among the hills in 
this neighbourhood are many black bears, which are very harmless animals, 
living chiefly on white ants, wild fruit, 'id that of the palmira.— f F. Bu- 
chanan, 8$c.) 

Eroad (Erodu ). — A town in the Coimbatoor province, 55 miles N.E. from 
(he town of Coimbatoor. Lat. 11° 21' N. long. 77° 46' E. During the govern- 
ment of Hyder the suburbs of Eroad contained about 3000 houses, Tippoo’s 
reign reduced them one-third, and all that remained were destroyed during the 
invasion under General Meadows. It has greatly recovered since, and. in 1801. 
contained above 400, with a battalion of sepoys in the huge mud fort. The 
canal passing Eroad from the Bhavani is an excellent work, and waters a narrow 
space of ground 15 Malabar hpurs’ journey in length. The best land here lets 
for £2 : 7s. per acre, and the worst at Hr. Ad. The dry field is from fit. lOrf. to 
Is. 6d. per acre. — ( F. Buchanan, §c.) 

Swan a Samudra. — A n island formed by the Cavery in North Coimbatoor, 
about nine miles in length bv one in breadth, and remark ab le for an uncommonly 



392 THE PROVINCE [catutmeajc. 

grand cataract. There are here the ruins of a bridge across the Cavery com* 
municating with the island, which is formed of large columns of black granite, 
each about 2 feet in diameter and 20 feet in length. This magnificent work 
was formerly 300 yards in length, but is now nearly destroyed. Directly oppo- 
site was the southern gate of a wall that surrounded the city, to which there 
was a flight of steps. The interior is now a jungle of long grass, with many 
banyan trees of great size, and the principal street may still be traced, extending 
from north to south about one mile in length. There are also the ruins of many 
Hindoo temples, great and small, and much sculpture of various sorts. In one 
apartment there is a statue of Vishnu seven feet long, in the best style of Indian 
carving. The figure is thick, with pyramidical cap, the eyes closed, and seven 
cobra capella snakes form a canopy over his head. The apartments are small 
and dark, and must be examined with torches, the principal statue being in the 
remotest chamber. 

The nearest station to the cataract is distant about a mile from the northern 
gateway. The fail is about 150 feet, but unless in the rainy season the body of 
water is not sufficient to make it impressive, and the descent is interrupted by 
numerous projecting rocks. During the height of the floods it must be an im- 
posing spectacle. The surrounding scenery is wild, and the vicinity exhibits 
marks of the impetuosity of the torrent. The island is in general rocky, and 
the land although fit for dry grains is but little cultivated ; three miles from the 
upper end of the island, at Birra Chuki, is another waterfall. — (Salt, F. Bu- 
chanan, 8$c.) 

Satimangalum. — A town in the northern district of Coimbatoor, 46 miles 
N.by E. from the town of Coimbatoor. Lat. 11° 31 # N. long. 77° 16 7 E. The 
fort at this place is large and constructed of uncut stone, and has a garrison, 
but contains few houses. The pettah or town is scattered over the plain at some 
distance from the fort, and in Hyders time contained 800 houses, which, in 1801, 
were reduced to 600. In the town and neighbourhood coarse cotton goods 
are manufactured from the cotton raised in the surrounding country. Here is a 
temple of considerable repute dedicated to Vishnu. The fort of Seringapatasn 
is said to have been built about 200 years ago by Trimula Nay aka, a relation of 
the Madura Raja, who governed this part of the country on behalf of his kins- 
man. About 50 years afterwards it became subject to Cantareva Nam, the 
Curtur of Mysore. — ( F. Buchanan, 8$c.) 

Caveryporam ( Caveripura ). — A town in the division of North Coimbatoor, 
82 miles S. E. from Seringapatam. Lat. 1 1° 50' N. long. 77° 47' E < This town 
is situated on the banks of the Cavery, which in the rainy season M here a wide, 
strong, smooth stream, nowhere fordable ; but in the dry season there are many 



COLLEGAI VETTAH.] OF COIMBATOOR. 3y3 

fords* The country is in general level but stony, and full of rocks even with the 
surface. The fort ofCaveriporam is said to have been built by Guttimodaly, who 
was poligar of a considerable part of the neighbouring country. I11 1801 , the 
suburbs contained 100 houses, with the ruins of a much greater number. There 
is a custom-house here, this being an entrepot of trade between the countries 
above and below the Eastern Ghauts. The goods are carried on oxen, and 
tobacco is the principal article. — (F. Buchanan , 

Collegal Petta 11 . — A town in the province of Coimbatoor, 31 miles E. S. E 
from Seringapatam. Lat. 12° 13' N. long. 77° 14' E. This place contains about 
600 houses, and has two large temples. It is a mart for the traders between 
Seringapatam and the country below the Ghauts near the Cavery. In the sur- 
rounding country there are above 40 reservoirs, mostly in want of repair. The 
soil is in general red and fit for the cultivation of raggy and cotton ; the neigh- 
bourhood also contains a few sandal- wood trees. 



SALEM AND THE BARRAMAHAL 


A province of the south of India, under the Madras Presidency, situated 
above the Ghauts, and comprehending within its jurisdiction and cottectorate 
the adjacent territory of Barramahal. At the northern extremity it has the dis- 
trict of Cudappah; on the south, Trichinopoly and Coimbatoor; to the east it 
is bounded by the Carnatic below the Ghauts ; and on the west, by the Raja of 
Mysore’s territories and the district of Coimbatoor. The surface throughout is 
of great elevation, being placed on the summit of the table land above the 
Eastern Ghauts. The principal rivers are the Cavery, the Panaur, and the 
Palar, which penetrate the mountains and proceed through the lower Carnatic 
to the Bay of Bengal. The principal towns are Salem, Namcul, Ahtoor, Cavery- 
patam, and Kistnagherry. 

In this elevated region the principal grains cultivated are India com and rice ; 
of the first, two crops are occasionally procured in one year from the same field, 
the earliest in April, the second in September. A considerable quantity of cot- 
ton is also annually produced both here and in the adjacent territory of Coim- 
batoor. In Salem as well as in Chingleput there is abundance of waste land, 
the possession of which there is reason to believe has added little or nothing to 
the means of those persons who were induced to become the purchasers of es- 
tates, nor in any degree diminished the evil consequences which have resulted 
from taking the supposed value of it into consideration on assessing permanently 
the land revenue ; for, although 20 years have elapsed since that event, it does 
not appear that real wastes to any extent have been occupied during so long a 
period of time. In A. D. 1817, the total gross collection of the public revenue 


in this district was as follows : — 

Land revenue 476,919 pagodas. 

Salt 

Land customs 27,991 

Exclusive sale of spirits (abkaity) 9,266 

Sundry small branches of revenue ..... 1,783 

Stamps 3,496 

Tobacco monopoly 


Total . . 519,433 



barramahal.] SALEM AND THE BARRAMAHAL. 395 

Salem (or ChclamJ.— The original capital of the preceding district, situated 
in lat. 11° 37' N. long. 78° 13' E. 114 miles S. E. from Seringapatam. Here are 
some handsome choultries, and to the S. W. is a mountain reckoned the highest 
ip this part of India. Cotton goods are purchased here for the East India Com- 
pany^ investment, and saltpetre is also to be procured at a moderate price. — 

( Hey tic t §c.) 

Wombinello^e.-^A town in the district of Salem, 106 miles S. E. from Se- 
ringapataim. Lat. 1 1° 40' N. long. 78° 5' E. 

Namkool. — A town and subdivision of the Salem district, 52 miles N. W. 
from Trichinopoly. Lat. 11° 17' N. long. 78° 15' E. 

Vayloor. — A town in the Salem district, 55 miles W. N. W. from Trichino- 
poly. Lat. 1 1° 2' N. long. 78° 1' E. 

Barramahal. — A principal subdivision of the Salem jurisdiction, of which 
it occupies the northern extremity, and consists properly of the following 12 
places, which are all in the Hindoo geographical division of Dravida, which is 
bounded on the west by the Ghauts. These places are Krishnagiri, Jacadeo, 
VarinaGhada, Maharay Ghada, Bujunga Ghada, Tripatura, Veniambady, Gan- 
gana Ghada, Sudarshana Ghada, and Tutucallu. After the fall of Seringapatam, 
in 1799, several sections of Upper Karnata were annexed to this district, such as 
the taiooks of Denkina Cotay, IIosso Uru, Killamangalum, Ratnagiri, Vincata- 
giri, Cotay, and that portion of the Allumbady talook which lies to the left of 
the Cavery, together with the pollams or feudatory lordships of Punganaru, 
Pedda Nayakana Durga, Bagalaru, Suligiri, and Ankusagiri. All the poligars 
were restored to their estates and put on a footing similar to that of the zemin- 
dars in Bengal. They pay a fixed rent or tribute for their lordships, but have no 
jurisdiction over the inhabitants. 

In these annexed districts the natives of the Barramahal are averse to settle, 
on account of the coldness of the climate during the rainy season, so that a con- 
siderable portion of the land remains uncultivated. In the annexed districts the 
rice cultivation is not important ; dry seeds, kitchen gardens, and plantations of 
coco nuts and areca palms, are the chief articles cultivated. The manufactures 
are coarse, and only fitted for the lower classes. In the districts annexed to the 
Barramahal, the property of the soil is vested in the polyams, and a few small free 
estates. When a rich man undertakes to construct a reservoir at his own ex- 
pense, for the irrigation of land, he is allowed to hold in free estate, and by here- 
ditary right, one-fourth of the lands so watered ; but he is also bound to keep 
the reservoir in repair. Tanks of this sort are notoriously kept in better repair 
than those which the government supports. The reason assigned by the natives 
is, that they can compel the holder of the free estate to perform his duty, but the 

3 e 2 



396 SALEM AND [kistkaoherrt* 

sovereign has no master. It would therefore seem advisable to give rich natives 
every encouragement to employ their money this way,* 

On the fall of the Rayaroo of Annagoondy, the Barramahal and Ryacotta, 
and many other estates, became subject to Jagadeva, the Poligar of Chenapatan, 
On the oVerthrow of this family, its territories were divided between the Nabob 
of Qudapah and the Rajas of Mysore. The former took the Barramahal, and 
the latter the dominions of the Chenapatan family. Hyder annexed the Barra- 
mahal to the dominions of Mysore, and, in 1792, it was ceded to the British go- 
vernment by the treaty of Seringapatam. When ceded the country was in a 
very miserable state ; but the good effect of a just and moderate government 
were soon perceptible, while it was under the superintendance of Colonel Alex- 
ander Read. In the course of five years the revenues were more than doubled, 
while the rents were diminished in an equal proportion; and since the. introduc- 
tion of the permanent system, this district has attained a still higher degree of 
cultivation. Never having been subdued by the Mahommcdans until the inroads 
of the Cudapah Nabob, it still contains a very great proportion (probably nine- 
teen twentieths) of Hindoo inhabitants, but no returns of its total population 
have ever been transmitted. — (F. Buchana?i , Sydenham , Sir Thomas Munro , 5th 
Report , 

CowDt: i.ly. — A town in the Salem district, 48 miles S. E. from Seringapatam. 
Lat. 12° 3 N. long. 77° 27' E. 

Kistn agherry ( Krishna Gtri ). — A town and fortress in the Barramahal dis- 
trict, 106 miles E. from Seringapatam. Lat. 12°30'N. long. 78° 18' E. Near 
to this place the country consists of a plain, in which are scattered high, rocky, 
insulated mountains, of a very singular and grand appearance. That on which 
the fort stands is 700 feet in perpendicular height, and so remarkably bare and 
steep, that it was never taken except by surprize. In November 1791, the 
British troops were repulsed with considerable loss in an attempt to storm it ; 
but it was subsequently ceded along with the lands attached, when the fortifica- 
tions were destroyed, the altered condition of the Mysore sovereignty-rendering 
them unnecessary. 

Much of the plain in the neighbourhood of Kistnaghcnry is rice ground, but 
the soil, although tolerably supplied with moisture, is poor. The road from 
Ryaeotta to Kistnagherry leads mostly through narrow defiles, among hills 
covered with brushwood, which is also th$ case from hence to Malapaddy. This 
last town, although placed in the centre of the Barramahal, never belonged to 
that province, having been long annexed to Areot. — (F. Buchanan, Dirom, 
Salt, #t\ ) 



keepatoor.] THE BARRAMAHAL. 397 

Caverypatam. — A town in the Barramahal district, 109 miles east from Se- 
ringapatam. Lat. 12° 22' N. long. 78° 20' E. 

Jaukdeo (Jacadeva). — A subdivision of the Barramahal, situated above the 
Eastern Ghauts, yet within the ancient Hindoo geographical subdivision of 
Dravida. 

Tripatoor. — A large open village in the Barramahal, 120 miles S. W. from 
Madras. Lat. 12° 29 N. long. 78 p 39 E. Here some good houses are to be seen, 
a species of covering found nowhere else in Carnata, and which probably tfave 
been constructed by workmen from Madras, where the natives, through long in- 
tercourse with Europeans, have greatly improved in all the arts. At this place 
an attempt was made by Colonel Head to introduce silk worms and the manu- 
facture of sugar, both of which failed. 

Ryacotta ( Raya Cotay). — A town and fortress added to the Barramahal dis- 
trict at the peace granted by the Marquis Cornwallis to Tippoo in 1792. Lat. 
12°28 , .N. long. 78° 6'E. 92 miles from Serin gapa tarn. This place being the chief 
key to Carnata (the Upper Carnatic or Mysore), pains have been taken to 
strengthen the works, which consist of a high fortified rock and a fort at the 
bottom. The air of Ryacotta is so very temperate, on account of its elevation, 
that even in the hot season the thermometer scarcely ever rises higher than 82° 
of Fahrenheit, and cherry trees flourish remarkably well. The people of Rya- 
cotta, being on the frontier, speak a mixture of the languages of Carnata, of the 
Tamuls, and of the Telingas. When it was besieged by Major Gowdie, in 1791, 
it was known to be too strong by nature to be reduced, if the garrison made a 
resolute defence ; but the governor was so intimidated by the spirited attacks of 
the detachment, and by a movement of the grand army towards the place, that 
he capitulated and retired into the British territories. After its surrender it was 
found to be amply supplied with guns, ammunition, and provisions for its de- 
fence ; and although Kistnagherry be the principal fort, Ryacotta from its situa- 
tion! may be considered the chief key of the Mysore dominions. — ( F. Buchanan , 
Dirom, Salt, &;c.) 

Kellamangalum (Killa Mangalam , the prosperous fort ). — A small town in 
the districts ceded from Mysore and annexed to the Barramahal. Lat. 12°35'N. 
long. 78° 5' E. 

Pinagra. — A small town in the Barramahal, 92 miles E. S. E. from Seringa- 
patam. Lat. 12° 5' N. long. 77° 57' E. 

Chang ama. — A town in the Barramahal, 75 miles W. by N. from Pondicherry. 
Lat. 12° 18' N, long. 78° 50' E. 

Neepatoor.— A town in the Barramahal division, situated on the north bank 
of the Panaur river, 86 miles W. bv N. from Pondicherry. Lat. 12° 5' N. 
low- 78° 36' E. 



398 SALEM AND THE BARRAMAHAL. [sactohur. 

Veniambady. — A village in the Barramahal, fortified with a mud wail. 
Lat. 12°41'N. 78° 43' E. 45 miles S.W. from Vellore. This place stands on 
an island formed by the Palar river, and has a very pleasing appearance, being 
surrounded with trees, which are scarce in the Barramahal, and situated within 
a fine plain surrounded by hills. During the rainy season the Palar frequently 
commits great devastation, and it rises highest when the rains prevail on the 
coast of Coromandel. There are here two temples of note, one dedicated to 
Siva and the other to Vishnu. The estate or subdivision of Veniambady 
comprehends five villages, viz. Veniambady, on an island; Mulputee, Chenam- 
petta, and Meetpalum, on the north side of the Palar ; and Govindpoor, on the 
south side. Mulputee is almost entirely inhabited by Brahmins, and is the most 
populous ; Govindpoor by Lubbeo, or Mahommedan merchants. Weavers of the 
coarse fabric termed gunnies, and of floor mats, are the most numerous classes 
in Chenampettah, and cultivators at Meetpalum. In Veniambady all the in- 
digenous classes are found. — ( A . H. Hamilton , F. Buchanan , fyc.) 

Vencatgiieruy. — A town in the Barramahal district, 54 miles W. by N. 
from Vellore. Lat. 13° 1' N. long. 78° 33' E. This place was formerly the re- 
sidence of the Pedda Naika poligar, and the ruins of his fort are still con- 
spicuous. It is built on a rising ground, and consists of several enclosures sur- 
rounded by walls of stone and mud, flanked with towers and bastions, which 
rise higher and higher towards the central enclosure, where stood the Raja's 
dwelling. The inhabitants here are almost all Telingas, or Gentoos as they are 
named by the English at Madras. The strata here resemble those of the 
Eastern Ghaut mountains, and iron is procured by melting a species of black 
sand. — ( F, Buchanan , §c.) 

Sautghur (or Satghadam ). — A town in the Barramahal, 106 miles W. by S. 
from Madras. Lat. 12°57'N. long. 78°48'N. The situation of this place is 
picturesque, being surrounded by rocks covered in part with brushwood. The 
Nabob of the Carnatic has a garden here, which is considered the Best in the 
country, and is let out to some Armenians at Madras. Like most eastern gar- 
dens, it is totally destitute of taste or beauty. The trees are planted regularly, 
and water is conducted in small channels to the root of each. In this neighbour- 
hood the agave Americana grows in great profusion. The surrounding hills are 
covered with large stones, among which grow many small trees and shrubs, and 
also a few tamarind and banyan trees of great age and size. The pass or ghaut 
beyond this place, approaching the Mysore, has been widened and levelled 
since the conquest of that province, and artillery can at present ascend with 
little difficulty ; but the tranquillity of the whole south of India, now under 
the Madras Presidency, has rendered this road principally important for com- 
mercial purposes . — ( Lord Vateitia, Sp.) 



THE CARNATIC. 


(CABNATA.) 


The large- province denominated the Carnatic by Europeans comprenends the 
former dominions and dependencies of the Nabob of Arcot, and extends from 
the 8th to the 16th degree of north latitude. The northern boundary commences 
at the southern limit of the Guntpor Circar, defined by the small river Gunde- 
gama, which falls into the sea at Moutapilly. From hence it stretches south 
to Cape Comorin, a distance of about 560 miles, but of unequal breadth, the 
average being about 75 miles. 

The territory south of the river Coleroon is called the Southern Carnatic, and 
was rather tributary to the Nabobs of Arcot than a real possession. Prior to 
the British sovereignty it was occupied by numberless Rajas, Poligars, and 
other petty chiefs, and subdivided into the districts of Tinnevelly, Madura, 
Marawa, the Poligar’s territory, part of Trichinopoly and Tanjore; the principal 
towns being Tanjore, Trichinopoly, Madura, Tranquebar, Negapatam, Tinne- 
velly, and Nagore. 

The Central Carnatic extends from the Coleroon to the river Pennar, and con- 
tained the remainder of Trichinopoly, Vplconda, Palamcotta, Ginjee, Wandi- 
wash, Conjee, Vellore, Chingleput, Chandgherry, Serdamilly, and part of Nel- 
lore; the chief towns being Madras, Pondicherry, Arcot, Wallajabad, Vellore, 
Cuddalore, Chingleput, Ginjee, Pulicat, Chandgherry, land Nellore. 

The Northern Carnatic extended from the river Pennar to the river Gunda- 
gama and the Guntoor Circar, and included the remainder of Nellore, Angole, 
and some smaller districts; the chief towns being Angole, Carwaree and Sam- 
gaum. In ancient times, this last tract formed part of the Hindoo division of 
Andhra, which reached to the Godavery, and the sovereigns of which, about 
the beginning of the Christian era, were very powerful in India. 

The principal rivers are the Panaur, Palaur, Cavery, and Vaygaroo, ail of 
which have their sources in the table land above the Ghauts. The vast height 
of these mountains, and their great extent, not only fix the boundaries of the 
two Caraatics above and below the Ghauts, but by stopping the course of the 



THE CARNATIC. 


400 

winds likewise divide the seasons. The climate of the Carnatic may be consi- 
dered one of the hottest in India, for although somewhat relieved on the sea 
coast by. the prevalence of the land and sea breezes, yet at the distance of ten 
or twelve miles inland, the sea breeze arrives late in the evening, and heated 
by passing over the intermediate tract of country. It is common in May, June, 
and July, to have occasional showers, and at some period of that time to have 
three or four days of heavy rain, which cools the air, and enables the cultivation 
of dry grain to take place. The weather in July, though hot, is cloudy, with 
strong winds from the west. 

The soil of the Carnatic near the sea is composed of sand and loam, sparingly 
intermixed with the remains of marine animals. The inland parts contain hills 
of sienite, with a very small proportion of feltspar ; the whole soil of the Car- 
natic appearing to consist of the debris of decomposed sienitic mountains. Ac- 
cording to local circumstances, it is either a loam mixed with sand and gravel, 
and strongly impregnated with iron; or in low and wet places a stiff red loam 
mixed with vegetable earth and fine sand ; on eminences it is sand and gravel. 
It is also impregnated with common salt, which in dry weather presents on the 
surface a saline efflorescence. Near Madras the soil is a heavy, sterile, salt 
loam; along the sea coast, and for some miles inland, at certain depths, marine 
productions are found, such as cockle and oyster shells. Trees will not thrive 
in the saline soil near to Madras, which soil, however, is not supposed to extend 
further than the mount called Little St. Thomas, from whence to Vellore the sur- 
face is sandy, and. nearly as poor as in the neighbourhood of Madras, but it is 
more free from saline impregnation 

The general division of the country here is into high and low lands; in the 
first of which all kinds of small grain are cultivated ; on the last, rice, which 
requires a redundance of moisture. In such districts as have not the advantage 
of being watered by considerable rivers, or in parts where the water cannot be 
conveyed from thence to the adjacent fields, tanks are made, which being filled 
during the periodical rains furnish water for the rice fields and for the cattle in 
the dry season. Some of these are of great extent, and were originally made 
by enclosing deep and low situations with a strong mound qf earth. Others of 
less magnitude, for the use of temples, villages, or gardens, are of a quadran- 
gular form, lined with stone, and descending by irregular steps from the margin 
to the bottom. Uaggy is the small grain most cultivated, as it meets a ready 
' market everywhere among the lower classes, who chiefly subsist on it Sugar 
is only cultivated in small quantities, the soil not being rich enough for the 
cane; and indigo is cultivated, but not foi exportation The cotton chiefly 
raised in this province is the common dwarf potion (gosaypium Herbaceum) 



THE CARNATIC. 401 

Famines and scarcities are much more frequent in the Carnatic and south of India 
generally than ih the Bengal provinces. In all those districts where the perma- 
nent system of revenue assessment has been introduced, the condition of the 
cultivator has been improved; because, although the assessment was originally 
fixed at one-half of the produce, in the course of time, by improvement, the 
half is reduced to a third, one-fourth, and even one -fifth of the actual produce. 

The only trees that grow spontaneously on the barren parts of the Carnatic 
are the melea azadirachta and the robinia mitis, the last of which flourishes 
both on the arid hills of the Carnatic and on the muddy banks of the Ganges. 
Very little of the soil between Sri Permaturu and Vera Permal Pellay s choultry 
will, at the usual rent, repay the expense of cultivation, and in the present state 
of the population, it would not be expedient to let it at low rents, as by that 
means useful labourers might be taken from more valuable lands. The river 
water after the rains is here reckoned the best, and next to it the tank water ; that 
which is drawn from wells is called salt by the natives, although the quantity 
of muriate of soda diffused in it is very small. Springs issuing from the sur- 
face are scarcely ever seen on the plains, but are frequent among the mountains 
*ind hilly parts. 

In the towns, as well as the villages, and along some of the principal high 
roads, are choultries, in the native language called chauvadi, from which, pro- 
bably, the English term choultry is derived. The smaller ones are single square 
rooms, open towards the street, where the roof is supported by large square 
pillars; in the walls are excavations for lamps, but no windows. The larger 
ones are handsome and extensive buildings, which have been erected and en- 
dowed by the magnificence of the prince, the generosity of some rich individual, 
or not uncommonly in consequence of some pious vow. A Brahmin resides 
near, who furnishes the traveller with food and a mat to lie on, and contiguous 
is a tank or well, for the pilgrims to perform their ablutions. Everywhere 
within 40 or 50 miles of Madras, such useful ^buildings are common, and have 
been erected by rich merchants of that city, but they are generally kept in so 
dirty a state as to be disgusting to Europeans. The adiacent tank or pond is 
also equally neglected, for although the natives appea* to be less capable of 
supporting thirst than Europeans, yet they are perfectly indifferent as to the 
purity of the liquid which they drink up, whether turbid or clear. 

There are few countries that can exhibit so many large temples, and other 
public monuments of wealth an civilization, as the Carnatic, where almost all 
the pagodas are built of the same form A large area, which is commonly a 
square, is enclosed by a wall of 15 or 20 feet high, and in the middle of die area 
are the temples, which, as if intended to be concealed from public view, mt 

VOL. ii. * “ 



THE CARNATIC. 


402 

never raised above the height of the surrounding wall. In the middle of one 
or more of the sides of this wall is a gateway, over which is built a high tower* 
not designed as a defence of the pagoda, but as an historical monument of the 
god to whom it is dedicated, representing the attributes and adventures of 
these divinities. There were an astonishing number of forts and fortresses 
formerly in the Carnatic, mostly built of a square form. They are now, in con- 
sequence of the long internal tranquillity, rapidly going to decay; but the 
natural strength of the situations on which they are placed will for ever remain, 
and point out their former site. Villages and towns, in an open level country, 
are but of a day in duration compared with fortresses, especially if the latter 
derive any portion of their strength from their natural situation. 

The great mass of the population in this extensive province profess the Hindoo 
religion of the Brahminical persuasion, the Mahommedans being but thinly 
scattered over the country, except at the Nabob’s court and a few other places. 
In 1785, there were reckoned to be about 20,000 native Christians of the Ro- 
man Catholic sect, and the Christians of all denominations probobly amount at 
present to double that number. The population of the Carnatic, in its most ex- 
tensive sense, may be estimated still to exceed five millions, although in 1809, 
10, and 11, various portions of it suffered from a scarcity and a destructive 
epidemic fever. The natives, generally, are much inferior in bodily strength to 
Rajpoots, Seiks, and Mahommedans of Hindostan Proper. In the Lower Car- 
natic a great proportion of the Brahmins follow secular professions. They 
almost entirely fill the different offices in the collection of the revenue and ad- 
ministration of justice, and they are exclusively employed as messengers and 
keepers of choultries. Much of the land is rented by them, but, like the Jews, 
they seldom put their hands to actual labour, and on no account will' they hold 
the plough. Their farms are chiefly cultivated by slaves of the inferior castes 
of Sudras and the Punchum Bundum. These last are by far the most indus- 
trious people of the country, but the greater part are slaves. So sensible was 
Hyder of their value, that during his incursions this was the caste he principally 
endeavoured to carry away. There are a few Mahommedan fanners who pos- 
sess slaves, but the most numerous class of farmers is composed of Sudras. 
Some of these possess slaves, but many of them cultivate their forms with their 
own hands. 

The most numerous class of Brahmins (comprehending one half of all the 
Brahmins of the Lower Carnatic) is of the Smartal sect, who are votaries of Siva, 
and followers of Sankara Acharya. Throughout both Carn&tics, except at 
Madras, the Brahmins appropriate to themselves a particular quarter of every 
lawn, and generally that which is best fortified. A Sudra is *ot permitted to 



THE CARNATIC. 403 

dwell in the same street with a Brahmin, while he exacts the same deference 
from the Whalliaru or Pariar, and other low castes, who generally live in 
wretched huts in the suburbs. In both the Upper and Lower Carnatics, taking 
snuff is much more common than in Bengal; smoking, on the contrary, is in 
great disrepute. The hooka is totally unknown, except among the Mahommc- 
dans. The lower classes smoke cigars, but a Brahmin would lose caste by such 
a practice, and it is considered unbecoming, even among the richer part of the 
Sudra tribe. Indeed, notwithstanding the great resort of Europeans and other 
foreigners to the Carnatic, the general Hindoo manners are retained by a vast 
majority of the inhabitants in wonderful purity. If any person leaving Madras 
goes to the nearest Hindoo village, not a mile into the country, he is as much 
removed from European manners and customs as if he were in the centre of Hin- 
dostan. 

Throughout this province, the quadruped ass is a very common animal. The 
breed is small as in Bengal, but there is an uncommon variety of colour among 
them. Some are of the usual ash colour, while others are almost black, in which 
case the cross on their shoulders disappears. They arc kept by five classes of 
people, who are all of low castes, the higher ranks disdaining the use of so im- 
pure an animal. One of these is a wretched caste, named Chensu Carir, who 
are described as having neither house nor cultivation. One common article of 
their food is the termes, or white ant. They travel from place to place, convey- 
ing their children and baggage on asses. Every man has also a cow instructed 
like a stalking horse, by means of which he approaches game, and shoots it with 
arrows. Throughout the southern parts of India, fowls are a common article of 
diet with the lower castes, whereas in Bengal their use is confined entirely to 
Mahommedans. In Bengal, ducks and geese are commonly used by the Hin- 
doos, but in the south of India these birds are not at all domesticated, except 
by Europeans. 

From that part of the Carnatic situated between the rivers Palar and Cole- 
roon, the articles of produce or manufactures exported to Madras are chiefly 
piece goods, consisting mostly of blue cloths, salampores, coarse chintzes, &e. 
The blue cloths are again exported, as are many of the coloured goods, to the 
eastern markets. Among other articles sent from this quarter are rum, indigo, 
grain, and numerous smaller commodities. The imports from Madras are very 
inconsiderable. 

The first irruption of the Mahommedans into the Carnatic was in A. D. 1310, 
during the reign of Allah ud Deen on the Delhi throne, when he defeated Belal 
Deo, the Hindoo sovereign of Carnata. After this period occasional tribute 
was paid to the Deccany princes, and subsequently to die Mogul sovereigns, but 

3 y 2 



THE CARNATIC. 


404 

actual possession does not appear to have been taken until towards the condu* 
sion of Aurengzebe's reign, in the commencement of the 18th century. In the 
year 1717, Nizam ul Mulk obtained possession of the Mogul conquests in the 
Deccan and south of India, which from that period ceased to form part of the 
empire. 

In 1743, Anwar ud Deen was appointed Nabob of the Carnatic, and of its 
capital Arcot, by Nizam ul Mulk, the Soubahdar of the Deccan; and in 1754, 
after severe contests betwixt the different claimants, aided by the French and 
English East India Companies, his son, Mahommed Ali, was left, in possession of 
that portion of the Carnatic recovered for him by the British arms. In 1763, it 
was again surrendered to the Nabob Mahommed Ali, after being wrested from 
the French and their allies, the contest having in all lasted 15 years ; and finally, 
in 1783, the British had again to reconquer it from Hyder Ali and his son 
Tippoo. 

Mahommed Ali died the 13th of October, 1795, and was succeeded by his 
ion Oomdut ul Omra, who died the 15th of July, 1801. Azil um Omra was 
then raised to the throne, on which he continued until the 2d of August; 1819, 
when he died of the prevailing epidemic, and was succeeded by Auzum Jah, 
his oldest legitimate son, who, on the 1 1th of September, was proclaimed Nabob 
Soubahdar of the Carnatic. In 1801, the whole of the possessions of the Nabob 
of Arcot, situated in the Carnatic, with the exception of a small portion re- 
served by him as the household lands of himself and family, were transferred to 
the British government by treaty. Of the lands situated in the southern Car- 
natic, consisting of the Tinnevelly and Manapar pollams, and the two marawars 
of Ramnad and Shevagunga, and of those situated to the westward, called the 
western pollams, the Madras presidency had collected the tribute since 1792. 
In 1795, the pollams of Ramnad came directly under the charge and manage- 
ment of the British government. The remaining portion of the Carnatic terri- 
tories, acquired by the treaty of 1801, consisted of the districts of Falnaud, Nel- 
lore, Ongole, the province of Arcot, the pollams of Chittoor, and the divisions of 
Sativaid, Tinnevelly, and Madura. 

By the conditions of the treaty the Nabob reserved to himself a clear annual 
revenue of from two to three lacks of pagodas, unincumbered by any charge, 
the British government undertaking % support a sufficient civil and military 
force for the protection of the country and the collection of the revenue, A 
liberal establishment was also provided for the other branches of the family of 
Mahommed Ali ; and the British government undertook to investigate and adjust 
the real and fictitious claims advanced against his estate, for the liquidation of 
which a fund, amounting to 340,000 pagodas annually, was appropriated. Com- 



Coromandel.] THE CARNATIC. 405 

missioners both at home and abroad, with suitable establishments, were in conse- 
quence appointed, and the examination of the Carnatic debts has been going on 
ever since 1805; but owing to the perplexed nature of the investigation, and the 
number of forgdd documents produced, small progress has as yet been made. 
Up to the 10th of February, 1819, the aggregate of absolute adjudications in 


favour of parties was £2,044,201 

The aggregate of provisional adjudications in favour of parties 18,055 

£ 2,002 *56 


The aggregate of absolute adjudications against the parties, in- 
cluding the portions disallowed in claims favourably adjudi- 
cated, was 25,488,616 

£27,550,872 

The custom of usurious loans by Europeans to native princes has long been 
reprobated by the British government, and its sanction withheld, being con- 
vinced that nothing could more effectually restrain the ruinous practice, than a 
steady determination on the part of the Court of Directors and of their govern- 
ments in India tc resist every arrangement, however specious, which might be 
proposed for their liquidation. 

On the transfei of the province, as above related, it was subdivided into the 
following collectorships, which comprehend also a few districts from the Upper 
Carnatic; viz. — 

1. Nellore and Ongole, including part of the western pollams or zemindaries. 

2. The northern division of Arcot, including Sativaid, Pulicat, Coongoody in 
the Barramahal, part of Balaghaut, and the western pollams or zemindaries. 

3. Chingleput, or the Jaghire. 

4. The southern division of Arcot, including Cudalore and Pondicherry. 

5. ' Trichinopoly. 

6. Tanjore. 

7. Dindigul, including Madura, the Manapara pollams, Ramnad and Sheva- 
gunga, partly in the Carnatic and partly in the Mysore. 

8. TinneVelly, in the Southern Carnatic. — (F. Buchanan, Heyne, 5th Report, 
Sir Thomas Munro , Sir John Algkolm, J. Grant, Rcnnell, Fra Paolo, fyc. §c.) 

Coromandel ( Cholamandala ). — This coast extends along the east side of the 
Bay of Bengal, from Point Calymere to the mouth of the Krishna river. The 
name is properly Chola Mandala. In Sanscrit the primitive meaning of the latter 
word is orbit or circle, and thence a region or tract of country ; and probably it 
received its name from the Chola dynasty, the ancient sovereigns of Tanjore. 
b die records of Madras, until 1779, it is written Choramandel, 



406 THE CARNATIC [mawias. 

When the northerly wind or monsoon prevails on the coast of Coromandel 
and in the bay of Bengal, the southerly wind reigns on the coast of Ma- 
labar ; and when the northerly wind blows on the latter, the southerly wind 
prevails on the former coast. The northerly winds are expected on the coast of 
Coromandel and in the bay of Bengal about the middle of October. The 
periodical change, which is followed by the rainy season, is called the great 
monsoon. It is frequently accompanied by violent hurricanes, nor is serene 
weather expected until the middle of December, and sometimes storms happen 
so late as the 1st of January. The King’s and Company's ships are consequently 
ordered to quit the coast by the 15th of October. The southerly wind sets in 
about the middle of April, and the early portion of it is a period of great 
drought on the Coromandel coast, while partial rains fall on that of Malabar and 
among the Western Ghauts. 

During the continuance of the hot winds the coast of Coromandel is parched 
up, resembling a barren wilderness, nothing appearing green except the trees. 
When the rains fall vegetation is restored, the plants revive, and a beautiful 
verdure is again opened all over the country. It is an observation of the natives 
on the Coromandel coast, which is confirmed by the experience of many Eu- 
ropeans, that the longer the hot wind blows the healthier are the ensuing 
months, these winds purifying the air. The coast of Coromandel is generally 
an open roadsted, without harbours, and there is a considerable difficulty in 
landing on account of the surf, except at places where proper boats are provided. 
( Wilfa, Crawfurd , Lind, Kyd , S$c.) 

MADRAS ( Mandirraj.) 

A city in the Carnatic province, the capital of the British possessions in the 
Deccan and south of India. Lat. 13° 5' N. long. 80° 21' E. The travelling 
distance from Calcutta is 1030 miles, and from Bombay 770. The approach to 
Madras from the sea is very striking ; the low flat sandy shores extending to 
the north and south, and the small hills that are seen inland, the whole exhibit- 
ing an appearance of barrenness which is much improved on closer inspection* 
The beach seems alive with the crowds that cover it. The public offices and 
store houses erected near the shore are fine buildings, with colonnades to the 
upper stories, supported on arched bases, covered with the beautiful shell 
mortar of Madras, hard, smooth, and polished. Within a few yards of the 
sea, the fortifications of Fort George present an interesting appearance, and at a 
distance minarets and pagodas are seen mixed with trees and gardens. With all 
these external advantages it would be difficult to find a worse station for a 
capital than Madras, situated as it is on the margin of a coast where a rapid 



THE CARNATIC 


MADBAt.] 


407 


current runs, and against which a tremendous surf beats even in the mildest 
weather. The site of Pondicherry is in every respect superior, and is placed in 
a rich and fertile country, besides having the advantage of being to windward* 
the loss of which was severely felt by the British settlers during the hard-fought 
wars of the 18th century. But however inconvenient, the expense of removal 
at this late period precludes all idea of a change. 

The boats used for crossing the surf are large and light. «iud made of very 
thin planks sewed together, with straw in the seams instead of caulking, which 
it is supposed would render them too stiff ; the great object being to have them 
as flexible as possible to yield to the waves like leather. When within the 
influence of the surf, the coxwain stands up and beats time with great agitation 
with his voice and foot, while the rowers work their oars backwards until over- 
taken by a strong surf curling up, which sweeps the boat along with frightful 
violence. Every oar is then plied forwards with the utmost vigour to prevent 
the wave taking the boat back as it recedes, until at length by a few successive 
surfs it is dashed high and dry on the beach. The boats belonging to the- ships 
in the roads sometimes proceed to the back of the surf, where they anchor on 
the outside of it, and wait for the country boats from the beach to convey their 
passengers on shore. When the weather is so unsettled as to make it dangerous 
even for the country boats to pass and repass, a flag is displayed at the beach- 
house to caution all persons on board ship against landing. Large ships generally 
moor in nine fathoms, with the flagstaff W. N. W. about two miles from the shore. 
From the beginning of October to the end of December is considered the most 
dangerous season to remain in the Madras roads. 

The fishermen and lower classes employed on the water use a species of 
floating machine of a very simple construction, named a catamaran. These 
are formed of two or three light logs of wood, eight or ten feet in length, lashed 
together with a small piece of wood inserted between them to serve as a stem 
piece. When ready for the water they hold two men, who with their paddles 
launch themselves through the surf to fish, or to carry letters or refreshments in 
sxhall quantities to ships, when no boat can venture out. They wear a pointed 
cap made of matting, where they secure the letters, which take no damage, 
however often the men are washed off the catamaran, which they regain by 
iwimming, unless interrupted by a shark. Medals are given to such catamaran 
men as distinguish themselves by saving persons in danger, or by their care in 
conveying papers through the surf in dangerous weather. 

Madras differs in appearance considerably from Calcutta, having no European 
toiSi except a few houses in the fort, the settlers residing entirely in their 
fasten houses, repairing to the fort in the morning for the transaction of busi- 



408 THE CARNATIC. [mamas. 

ness, and returning in the afternoon; Fort George, as it now stands, was planned 
by the celebrated engineer, Mr. Robins, and is a strong handsome fortress, not 
too large. It is situated within a few yards pf the sea, and although not so 
extensive or of so regular a design as Fort William at Calcutta, yet ftom the 
greater facility of relieving it by sea, and the natural advantages of the ground, 
which leaves the enemy less choice in the manner of conducting his attack, it 
may on the whole be deemed equal to it, and has the convenience of requiring 
but a moderate garrison, generally consisting of one European regiment and 
four battalions of native infantry. In the middle of the present fortress stands 
the original fortress first erected here, but now mostly converted into govern* 
ment offices, and the town residence of some of the civil servants. To the 
southward stands the church, at the back of which is the residence of the 
governor. To the northward of tire old fort stands the exchange, on which in 
1796 a light house was erected ; the light of which is 90 feet above the level of 
the sea, and may he seen from ships’ decks at the distance of 17 miles. 

The government house, which is large and handsome, is in the Choultry plain, 
being situated on the edge of the esplanade ; and near to it are Chepauk Gardens, 
the residence of the Nabob of the Carnatic, which intercept the breeze from the 
Bea and confine the view. The garden houses about Madras are generally only 
of one story, but of a pleasing style of architecture, having their porticoes and 
verandas supported by chunamed pillars. The walls are of the same materials, 
either white or coloured, and the floors are covered with rattan mats. They are 
surrounded by a field planted with trees and shrubs 1 , which have changed the 
barren sand of the Carnatic into a rich scene of vegetation* but flowers and fruits 
are still raised with difficulty. During ;the hot winds mats made of the roots of 
the cusa grass, which has a pleasant smell, are placed against the doors and 
windows and are constantly watered, so that the air which blows through them 
spreads an agreeable freshness and fragrance throughout the room. The moment, 
however, the cooling influence of the mats is quitted, the sensation is like enter- 
ing a furnace, although taking the average of the whole year Madras experiences 
less extreme heat than Calcutta. In .January the lowest is about 70°, and in 
July the highest about 91°. From a correct register of the weather kept at 
Madras prior to 1811, it appeared that no rain had fallen there in the month of 
March during a period of 13 years. 

The botanic garden, reared at a vast expense by the late Dr. James Ander- 
son, is now in a sad state of ruin. On the 9th of December, 1807, Madras wits 
visited by a dreadful hurricane, which almost destroyed the garden, and the toss 
may be considered a national one. Many of the natives were involved in great 
? ^ w it Had a ftiiurular effect on one individual. After the* 



THE CARNATIC 


HABEAS.] 


409 


hurricane had subsided, & native woman raised a pile of wood in a gentleman’s 
coach-house, and getting underneath it with her child, had the desperate reso- 
lution to set fire to it, and thus burned herself and child to ashes. Among the 
remaining plants are still to be seen the sago tree, and the nopal, or prickly 
pear, on which the cochineal insect feeds, and which Dr. Anderson discovered 
to be an excellent antiscorbutic. It has since been used as such on board of 
the ships of war on the Indian station. This plant (the nopal) keeps fresh and 
even continues to vegetate long after it is gathered, and it also makes an excel- 
lent pickle for a sea voyage. 

The Choultry plain commences about a mile and a quarter S. W. of Fort St. 
George, from which it is separated by two small rivers. The one, called the 
river Triplicane, winding from the west, gains the sea about 1000 yards south of 
the glacis ; the other, comi/ng from the N. W. passes the western side of the 
black town, the extremity of which is high ground, which the river rounds, and 
continues to the east within 100 yards of the sea, where it washes the foot of 
the glacis, and then turning to the south, continues parallel with the beach until 
it joins the mouth and bar of the river Triplicane. The Choultry plain extends 
two miles to the westward of the enclosures which bound the St. Thom£ road, 
and terminates on the other side at a large body of water called the Meliapoor 
tank, behind which runs with deep windings the Triplicane river. The road 
from .the mount passes two and a half miles under the mound of the tank, and 
at its issue into the Choultry plain is a kind of defile formed by the mound on 
one side, and buildings with brick enclosures on the other. 

In the neighbourhood of Madras the soil, when well cultivated, produces a 
good crop of rice, provided in the wet season the usual quantity of rain falls ; 
and in some places the industry of the natives by irrigation creates a pleasing 
verdure. The fields yield two crops of rice annually. In appearance the coun- 
try is almost as level as Bengal, and in general exhibits a naked, brown, dusty 
plain, with few villages, or any relief for the eye, except a range of abrupt de- 
tached hills towards the south The roads in the immediate vicinity of Madras 
are excellent and ornamental, being broad and shaded with trees. The huts 
seen at a little distance from town are covered with tiles, and have a better ap- 
pearance than those of Bengal ; and the inns and choultries, which are common 
on the roads, evince an attention to travellers not to be found in that watery 
province. A considerable part of the country, although at present naked, seems 
capable of raising trees and hedges, and shows symptoms of being in a progres- 
sive state of improvement. Near to Condatura the country assumes a very 
pleasing aspect. Numerous small canals from the S aymbrumbacum tank con- 
vey a constant supply of water to most of the neighbouring fields, and fertilize 
ii. 3 o 



410 THE CARNATIC. [mama*. 

them without the trouble of machinery ; in consequence of which they yield 
two crops of rice per annum. The cattle in the neighbourhood of Madras are 
of the species which are common in the Deccan, and are a small breed, but 
larger than those reared in the southern parts of Bengal. In the vicinity of 
Madras, buffaloes are generally used in carts, of a smaller size than the Bengal 
buffaloes. 

The society at Madras is more limited than at Calcutta, but the style of living 
is much the same, except that provisions of all sorts are much less abundant 
and greatly more expensive. During the cold season there are monthly assem- 
blies, with occasional balls all the year. Among the places of public resort is 
the Mount road, leading from the fort to St. Thomas’s Mount, which is quite 
smooth, with banyan and white tulip trees planted on each side. Five miles 
from Fort St. George, on this road, stands a cenotaph to the memory of the 
Marquis Cornwallis, the erection of which cost a very large sum. It is custo- 
mary for the ladies and gentlertien of Madras to repair in their gayest equipages, 
during the cool of the evening, to the Mount road, where they drive slowly 
about the cenotaph and converse together. But the greatest lounge at this pre- 
sidency is during visiting hours, from nine o’clock in* the morning until eleven, 
during which interval, the young men go about from house to house, learn and 
retail the news, and offer their services to execute commissions in the city, to 
which they must repair for purposes of business. When these functionaries re- 
tire., a troop of idlers appears, and remain until tiffin at two o’clock, when the 
real dinner is eaten. The party then separates, and many withdraw to rest or 
to read, until five o’clock ; about which time the master of the family returns 
from the fort, when an excursion to the Mount road, and dinner afterwards, 
finishes the day, unless prolonged by a ball or supper party at night. 

On landing at Madras, passengers are immediately surrounded by hundreds of 
Dobashies, and servants of all kinds pushing for employment. Thse Dobashies 
undertake to interpret, buy all that is wanted, provide servants, tradesmen, pa- 
lanquins, and to transact whatever business a stranger requires. At Madras, 
these interpreters are of three castes of Sudras. The persons of the first caste 
seem analogous to the Kayastas (or Koits) of Bengal, and are called Canaca-pil- 
lays, which by the English is commonly written Canacoply ; and this name is 
by Europeans extended to all persons, whether Brahmins or Sudras, who follow 
the same profession. The next caste who follow the business of Dobashies are 
the more learned Goalas, or Yadavas ; and the third caste are the Vaylayars of 
the labouring class. Each of these castes pretends to a superiority of rank over 
the others. The pride of caste is remarkably prevalent among Hindoos, and 
there is scarcely a creature so wretched or ignorant, but whh on this account 



madras.} THE CARNATIC. 4 1 1 

holds in the utmost contempt many persons in easy circumstances and respect- 
able situations. The gradation of the different inferior castes is by no means 
well ascertained, there being only one point perfectly clear, which is the im- 
measurable superiority of the Brahmins above the rest of mankind. 

Among the charitable institutions at Madras are a male and female orphan 
asylum, both admirably conducted. The men servants are mostly Hindoos, but 
a great proportion of the female servants are native Portugueze. Besides French 
pedlers from Pondicherry, with boxes of lace and artificial flowers, there are a 
set of Mahommedans who go about selling moco stones, petrified tamarind 
wood, garnets, coral, mock amber, and a variety of other trinkets. The Madras 
jugglers are celebrated all over India for their dexterity ; the most curious, at 
the same time the most disgusting, sight, is the swallowing of a sword, in wfcich 
there is no deception. They commence operations very young ; the children 
beginning the experiment with short bits of bamboo, which are lengthened as 
the throat and stomach are able to bear them. In 1812, a college was instituted 
here similar to that established in Calcutta, for the instruction of the young ci- 
vilians in the country languages, previous to their being nominated to official situ- 
ations in the interior, the expense of which in 1813 was 32,711 star pagodas. 

The black town of Madras stands to the northward of the fort, from which it 
is separated by a spacious esplanade. It was formerly surrounded by fortifica- 
tions sufficient to resist the incursions of cavalry, but having long become un- 
necessary are now neglected. In this town reside the native Armenian and 
Portugueze merchants, and also many Europeans unconnected with government. 
Like other native towns it is irregular and confused, being a mixture of brick 
and bamboo houses, and makes a better appearance at a distance than when 
closely inspected. In 1794, the total population was vaguely estimated at 
300,000 souls, and it does not appear that any attempt at a more accurate com- 
putation has been subsequently made. In November, 1803, a navigable canal 
was opened from the black town to Ennore river, 10,560 yards in length ; the 
greatest breadth at the top 40 feet, and its greatest depth 12 feet. # By this 
channel boats go to Pulicat, from whence Madras is supplied with charcoal. 

Owing to the want of a secure port and navigable rivers, the commerce of 
Madras is much inferior to that of the other two presidencies ; but all sorts of 
Asiatic and European commodities are, however, to be procured. Besides the 
disadvantages above-mentioned, the Carnatic province, considered generally, k 
sterile compared with Bengal, and raises none of the staple articles of that pro- 
vince in such quantities, or at so low a price, as to admit of competition in 
foreign markets. The Company’s staple article is piece goods. Meat, poultry, 
fish, and other refreshments for shipping, are to be procured here ; but they are 

3 c 2 



412 THE CARNATIC. [madras. 

neither of so good a quality nor so cheap, as in Bengal. Wood and fuel are rather 
scarce, and in proportion dear. The Madras market having in 1812 been re- 
lieved from certain restraints before imposed on it, the good effects were instan- 
taneously experienced, the supply having greatly increased in quantity (espe- 
cially of poultry) while the price diminished ; the natural consequences followed 
of an increased consumption and steady demand. The water is of a very good 
quality, and supplied to ships by native boats at established prices. On account 
of the dearness of provisions, wages are considerably higher here than in Cal- 
cutta ; but few servants are kept, comparatively, yet the work is quite as well 
done. Household servants receive from two to five pagodas per month, and the 
hire of a palanquin is 4£ pagodas per month ; for the field service, a set of bearers 
receive each two pagodas per month ; but at the presidency 1-J pagodas each. 

Until 1818, the public and private accounts at Madras were kept in star pa- 
godas, fanams, and cash, but from the commencement of that year the Court of 
Directors ordered that the rupee should in future constitute the standard coin 
of the presidency, and that all future engagements of the government, and the 
pay and allowances of their servants, should be adjusted at the rate of 350 
rupees per star pagoda. The new silver currency consists of rupees, quarter 
rupees, double annas, and annas ; besides which a gold coinage has been issued 
under the very barbarous appellation of gold rupees (rupee meaning silver ex- 
clusively), and a copper coinage at the rate of 12 pice for one anna. Formerly 
80 cash made one fanam, and from 42 to 46 fanams one star pagoda. Cash 
pieces are small copper coin struck in England and sent to Madras, bearing the 
date of 1803, and having their value marked on each of them. In 1813, the 
pound sterling of Great Britain was reckoned at 2 pagodas 21 fanams at the 
Madras custom-house ; the Bengal sicca rupee 325 per 100 star pagodas ; and 
the Bombay rupee 350 per star pagoda. The origin of the term pagoda has 
never been satisfactorily ascertained. By the English in the Carnatic, it is & 
name given to a Hindoo temple, and also to a gold coin called varaha or varahun 
by the Hindoos, and hoon by the Mahommedans. 

Total gross collection of the public revenues of Madras city in 1817 : 


Land revenue 13,363 star pagodas. 

Salt 15,901 

Land customs 153,043 

Exclusive sale of spirits (abkarry) . . . 94,122 

Sundry small branches of revenue . . . 2,938 

Stamps 1,634 

Tobacco monopoly 


Total . . . 281,003 



Madras.] THE CARNATIC. 413 

In 1813, the charges defrayed at this presidency and its subordinates by the 
East India Company for the management of their trade, so far as the same could 
be distinguished from the civil and other charges respectively, were star pagodas 
227,588. In 1811*12, the total amount of the exports, exclusive of treasure 
from Madras and the ports under the Madras presidency, in private trade* 


amounted to 12,869,049 Arcot rupees. 

Ditto . Ditto . Ditto of imports . . 12,039,679 

Balance in favour of the export trade 829,370 


The whole quantity of treasure imported into Madras between the 1st of Janu- 
ary, 1811, and the 30th of April, 1812, amounted to 2,6G2,438 Arcot rupees. 

Imported at the subordinate ports . . . 1,513,591 

Total . . 4,176,029 

In the official year 1811-12, the value of the investment exported by the 
East India Company was 4,489,282 Arcot rupees. 

A supreme court of justice is established at Madras on the model of that at 
Fort William in Bengal. It consists of a chief justice and three other judges, 
who are barristers of not less than five years standing, appointed by the king. 
The salary of the chief justice is £6000 per annum, and of the puisne judges 
£5000 each, paid at the rate of 8 shillings per star pagoda. After seven years 
service in India, if the judges of the supreme court return to Europe, the king 
is authorized to order pensions to be paid them out of the territorial revenues 
in the following proportions : to the chief judge not more than £1600 per annum, 
and to the junior judges not more than £1200 per annum. The law practi- 
tioners attached to the court are eight attornies and six barristers. 

This part of the coast of Coromandel was probably visited at an earlier pe- 
riod by the English, but they possessed no fixed establishment until A. D. 1639, 
in which year, on the 1st of March, a grant was received from the descendant 
of the Hindoo dynasty of Bijanagur, then reigning at Chandergherry, for the 
erection of a fort. This document from Sree Rung Rayeel expressly enjoins, 
that the town and fort to be erected at Madras shall be called after his own 
name, Sree Runga Rayapatam ; but the local governor or Naik, Damerla Ven- 
catadri, who first invited Mr. Francis Day, the chief of Armagon, to remove to 
Madras, had previously intimated to him, that he would have the new English 
establishment founded in the name of his father Chenappa, and the name of 
Ghenappa-p&tam continues to be universally applied to the town of Madras, by 
the natives of that division of the south of India named Dravida. In conse- 
quence of this permission, without waiting for instructions from the Court of 



414 THE CARNATIC. [mamas. 

Directors, Mr. Day proceeded with great alacrity to the construction of a for- 
tress, which in India is soon surrounded by a town. The latter he allowed 'to 
retain its Indian appellation, but the former he named Fort George. The ter- 
ritory granted extended five miles along shore and one inland. 

In 1C44, the money expended on the fortifications amounted to £2294, and it 
was computed that £2000 more would be requisite, and a garrison of 100 soldiers, 
to render the station impregnable to the native powers. The garrison appears af- 
terwards to have been much diminished, as in 1652 there were only 26 soldiers 
in the fortress. In 1653, the agent and council of Madras were raised to the 
rank of a presidency. In 165.4, the Court of Directors ordered the president 
and council at Fort George to reduce their civil establishment to two factors and 
a guard of ten soldiers. In 1661, Sir Edward Winter was appointed agent at 
Madras, but in 1665 was suspended, and Mr. George Foxcroft appointed to suc- 
ceed him. On the arrival of the latter, Sir Edward Winter seized and impri- 
soned him, and kept possession of Fort George until the 22d of August, 1668, 
when he delivered it up to commissioners from England, on condition of re- 
ceiving a full pardon for all offences. Mr. Foxcroft then assumed the govern- 
ment, which he filled until 1671, when he embarked for Europe, and was suc- 
ceeded by Sir William Langhom. This year the sovereign of the Carnatic 
made over to the Company his moiety of the customs at Madras for a fixed 
rent of 1200 pagodas per annum. In 1676, the pay of a European soldier at 
Madras was 21s. per month, in full for provisions and necessaries of every kind. 

In 1680, Mr. William Gifford was appointed governor of Fort St. George, 
and in 1683, he was appointed president both of Madras and Bengal. In 1686, 
he was dismissed, and Mr. Yule appointed president of Fort George only. On 
the 12th December, 1687, the population of the city of Madras, Fort George, 
and the villages within the Company’s boundaries, was reported in the public 
letter to be 300$00 persons. In 1691, Mr. Yule was dismissed, and Mr. Higgin- 
son appointed his successor. In 1696, Mr. Thomas Pitt was appointed governor, 
in which year the revenue produced by taxes at Madras amounted to 40,000 pa- 
godas. In 1701, Mr. President Pitt expressed his fears that the natives would 
bribe the Arab fleet to assist them in blockading the garrison. In 1702, Madras 
was besieged by Daoud Khan, Aurengzebe’s general, who said he had orders to 
demolish it altogether. Up to 1703, gunpowder formed one of the articles of 
the outward bound investment, but about this period the manufacture of it was 
so much improved at Madras as to preclude the necessity of sending any more. 
In 1708, the governor, Mr. President Pitt was much alarmed by a dispute among 
the natives about precedence— one party described as the riarhthand caste, and 



madras.] THE CARNATIC. 415 

the other as the left hand caste ; each threatening to leave the place and retire to 
St. Thom6, if superiority were not granted. 

From the junction of the rival East India Companies in 1708, we have no au- 
thentic annals of Madras until 1744, when it was besieged by the French from the 
Mauritius, under M. de la Bourdonnais ; at which period it was estimated that 
the native inhabitants, residing within the Company’s limits, amounted to 
250,000 persons. The English colony did not exceed 300 men, and of these 
200 only were soldiers of the garrison. On the 7th of September, the French 
began to bombard the town, and on the 10th it was surrendered. There was 
not a man killed in the French camp during the siege ; four or five English were 
killed in the town by the explosion of the bombs, which likewise aei royed two 
or three houses. From this period it is useful to contemplate the progress made 
by the British in Hindostan both in the science and spirit of war. The plunder 
realized by the French was about £200,000, and the town was by the capitulation 
ransomed for £440,000, which agreement was subsequently broken by M. Dupleix, 
and all the British inhabitants of every description compelled to abandon the 
place. 

At the peace of Aix la Chapelle, Madras was restored, and evacuated by the 
French in August, 1749, when it was found in a very improved condition. The 
buildings within the White Town had suffered no alteration, but the bastions 
and batteries in that quarter had been enlarged and strengthened. The French 
had entirely demolished that part of the Black Town situated within 300 yards 
of the Ai^hite, in which space had stood the buildings belonging to the most 
opulent Armenian and Indian merchants. With the ruins they formed an ex- 
cellent glacis, which covered the north side of the White Town, and they like- 
wise had thrown up another on the south side. The defences of the town, how- 
ever, still remained much inferior to those of Fort St. David, where the East 
Tndia Company ordered the presidency to continue. 

Although improved. Fort St. George was incapable of making a considerable 
resistance against a regular European force ; yet in this condition it was allowed 
to remain until 1756, when the apprehension of another attack from the French, 
compelled the governor and council to strengthen the fortifications. About 4000 
labourers of different descriptions were consequently employed, and continued 
to work until driven away by the approach of the French under M. Lally in 
1758. On the 12th December, that year, the last of the troops from the dif- 
ferent outposts entered the fort, and completed the force with which Madras 
was to sustain the siege. The whole of the European military, including officers* 
with 64 topasses and 80 Caffres, amounted to 1758 men ; the sepoys 2220 men, 
the European inhabitants not military were 150, and they were appropriated 



416 THE CARNATIC [madras. 

without distinction to serve out stores and provisions to the garrison. The 
council of the presidency, by an unanimous vote, committed the defence of the 
siege to the governor, Mr, Pigot, recommending him to consult Colonel Law- 
rence on all occasions. 

The siege commenced on the 17th of December, 1758, and was prosecuted 
with the utmost skill, vigour, and bravery, on both sides, until the 17th of Febru- 
ary, when the French were obliged to raise the siege with such precipitation that 
they had not time to destroy the black town or remove their sick. They took 
with them about one quarter part of the stores, but left behind 52 pieces of 
cannon and 150 barrels of gunpowder. During the siege the fort fired 26,554 
rounds from their cannon, 7502 shells from their mortars, and threw 1990 hand 
grenades ; the musquetry expended 200,000 cartridges. In these services were 
used 1768 barrels of gunpowder; 30 pieces of cannon and five mortars had 
been dismounted from the works. — As many of the enemy’s cannon balls were 
gathered in the works, pr about the defences of the fort, or found within the 
black town, as the garrison had expended. The enemy threw 8000 shells of all 
sorts ; of which by far the great number were directed against the buildings, so 
that scarce a house remained that was not open to the heavens. 

While the siege lasted 13 officers were killed, 2 died, 14 wounded; and 4 taken 
prisoners ; in all 33. Of European troops 198 were killed, 52 died in the hos- 
pitals, 20 deserted, 122 were taken prisoners, and 167 wounded; in all 579. Of 
the sepoys and Lascars 114 were killed, including officers, 232 wounded; and 
440 deserted. The loss of men sustained by the French army was never ex- 
actly ascertained. Their force at the commencement of the siege was 3500, 
Europeans, 2000 sepoys, and 2000 native and European cavalry. 

Since that memorable period Madras has suffered from no external attacks, 
although approached very near by Hyder in 1767 and 1781 ; but the strength 
of the works is wholly beyond the utmost effort of native tactics, and blockade 
need not be apprehended while the sea is open. From being the head of a petty 
territory, five miles long by one broad, it is now the capital of an extensive 
region, comprehending all India south of the Krishna, and a considerable portion 
of the Deccan, some account of which will be found in the next article, under 
the title of Madras Presidency. Frqm A. D. 1747, the succession of governors 
took place according to the following abstract : 

Charles Floyer, Esq. succeeded to the government of Fort St. David (then the 
principal town) and Madras, on the 15th of April 1747. 

12th January, 1749, succeeded by Thomas Saunders, Esq. 

14th January, 1755, George Pigot, Esq. 



417 


mama*.] THE CARNATIC. 

14th November, 1763, Robert Palk, Esq. 

25th January, 1767, Charles Bourchier, Esq. 

31st December, 1770, Josias Dupre, Esq. 

2d February, 1773, Alexander Wynch, Esq. 

Hth December, 1775, Lord Pigot, who was violently removed by a majority of 
the council, on the 24th August, 1776, and his place taken by George 
Stratton, Esq. who was suspended by order from the Court of Directors on 

the Hth June, 1777, and Lord Pigot restored, but he died on the 10th of 
May, 1777. 

31st August, 1777, Mr. Whitehill arrived at Fort George with the Court’s orders 
respecting Lord Pigot, and took upon himself the government. 

8th February, 1778, Thomas Rumbold, Esq. arrived at Fort George and assumed 
the government. He departed for Europe in April, 1780, and was suc- 
ceeded by Mr. Whitehill, who was suspended by the orders of the Goveroor 
Gcneral on the 10th October, 1780, and in consequence Charles Smith. 
Esq. succeeded in the beginning of November, 1780. 
aid June, 1781, Lord Macartney took charge of the government, and on the 1st 4 
of June, 1785, resigned to Alexander Davidson, Esq. as the senior civil 
servant. He continued in office until the 
6th April, 1786, when Sir Archibald Campbell took charge of the gover nmen t; 
which he occupied until the 1st of February, 1789, when he resigned in 
favour of Mr. John Holland, who, on the 13th February, 1790, resignerTln 

&vour of Mr. Edward John Holland, whose administration lasted only one 
week. 

20th February, 1790, Major General Medows took charge of the government 
which, on die 

August, 1702, he designed to Sir Charles Oakley, who continued until the 
*th September, 1794, when Lord Hobart took charge of the government. 

1st February, J798, General Harris succeeded Lord Hobart, and continued until 
the 

2lst August, 1798, when Lord Clive took charge of the government, and on the 
^ Aug»$t» 1808, was succeeded by Lord William Behtinck. 

Util September, 1807, William Petrie, Es<|. took charge of the government 
until the 

Sil|t {tamnber, 1807, when Sir Geoxge Hdaro Barlow arrived, and continued 
untSthe 

Hat May , 1813, when he was succeeded by the Honourable John Abercrombie, 
\,*4*fr**;i *» 



THE CARNATIC. 


418 


[madras presidency. 


16th September, 1819; was succeeded by The Honourable Hugh Elliott. 

On the 41th August, 1819, a resolution was passed by the Court of Directors, 
appointing Major General Sir Thomas Munro, K. C. B. to the government 
of Madras, for which presidency he sailed towards the conclusion of the 
same year . — ( Parliamentary Reports, M. Graham, Milburn, Bruce, F. Bu- 
chanan, Public MS. Documents, Wilks, Lori Valentia, Rennell, R. Grant, fyc. 
&■) 


THE MADRAS PRESIDENCY. 

The territories subject to the presidency of Fort George, or Madras, compre- 
hend the whole of Hindostan south of the Krishna river, together with some 
tracts, acquired since the expulsion of Bajerow, to the north of that river, and 
also a large province of the Deccan named the Northern Circars. These are 
under the direct management and controul of the British government ; but the 
above boundaries include, besides, three princes, who collect the revenues, and 
exercise a certain degree of power in the internal management of their respective 
states, although with reference to external politics they are wholly subordinate 
to the British power, are protected by a subsidiary force, and furnish large 
annual contributions. The princes above alluded to are the Rajas of Mysore, 
Travancore, and Cochin. The rest of this extensive region is under the imme- 
diate jurisdiction -of the Governor and Council at Madras, and for the admi- 
nistration of justice and collection of the revenue has been subdivided into the 
following districts, viz. 

Northern Circars. 

1. Ganjam. 4. Masulipatam. 

2. Vizagapatam. 5. Guntoor, including Palnaud, with part 

3. Rajamundry. of the Carnatic. 

The Carnatic. 

6. Nellore and Ongole, including part of the Western Pollams or zemindaries. 

7. Northern division of Arcot, including Sativaid, Pulicat, Coongoody in die 

Barramahal, part of Balaghaut, and of the Westem'poll&ins. 

8. Chingleput or the Jaghire. 

9. Southern division of Arcot, including Cuddalore. 

10. Trichinopoly. 

11. Tanjore. 



MADRAS fR&siDXKCT*] THE CARNATIC. 


419 


Mysore and Carnatic. 

12. Dindigul, including the Manapara Pollams, Ramnad, and Shevagunga, 
fonning part of the Southern Carnatic. 



Southern Carnatic, 



13, Tinnevelly. 



Mysore Conquests. 


14. Bellary. 

17. Salem and Barramahal. 

20. Malabar. 

15. Cuddapah. 

18. Coimbatoor. 

21. Madras. 

16. Seringapatam. 

19. Canara. 



The limits of these districts are almost in every instance coextensive with 
the local jurisdiction of the zillah courts of justice, and the aggregate square 
contents of the whole may be roughly estimated at 166,000 square miles. Be- 
sides the zillah courts for the administration of justice there are four courts of 
circuit, viz. the centre division, the northern division, the southern division, and 
the western division. 

The provinces subject to the government of Fort George, with the exception 
of Canara, Malabar, and other districts, in which traces of private property still 
existed when they came under the British government, exhibited nearly the 
same system of landed property and revenue policy. The land was the property of 
government, and of the ryots or cultivators ; but where the share of government 
absorbed nearly the whole of the landlord’s rents, the ryots possessed little more 
interest in the soil than that of hereditary tenancy. The country was divided 
into villages. A village (in this part of India), geographically, is a tract of 
country comprising some hundreds or thousands of acres of arable and waste 
land ; politically, a village is a little republic or corporation, having within itself 
its municipal officers and corporate artificers. Its boundaries are seldom altered, 
and though sometimes injured and even desolated by war, famine, and epidemics, 
the same name, boundaries, interests, and even families, continue for ages. The 
government share of the crops was generally received from rice lands in kind, 
at rates varying from 40 to 60 per cent, of the gross produce, after deducting 
certain portions distributed before the threshing commences. The share of 
government from dry grain land was generally received in cash, varying with 
the produce. 

The following short statement will shew in what parts of the country the per- 
manent settlement has been carried into effect, and at what periods it has been 
extended in particular districts. 


3h2 



430 


THE CARNATIC. [kashas nisistm. 


Ancient Territoht. 

Districts. When permanently as s es s e d. 

The Jaghire 1801-2 

The Northern Circars 1802-3 A 1804-5 


Modern Territory. 
Salem, .... 

Western pollams, 

Chittoor pollams, 

Southern pollams, 

Ramnad . . . 

Kistnagherry . 

Oindigul . . 



1802-3 


1803- 4 

1804- 5 
1804-5 


Ancient Territory. 
Trivendaporam, 1 
Jaghire villages, ) ’ 


Country net permanently am mi in 
1811. 

Modern Territory. 

Malabar. 

Canara. 

Coimbatoor. 

Balaghaut Ceded Districts. 

In the Carnatic. 

Tanjore. 

Palnaud. 

Nellore and Ongole \ 

Arcot, northern and southern divi- 
sion. 

Sativaid. 

Trichinopoly. 

Madura. 

Tinnevelly Circar lands. 


Ten years ago the total population of these provinces was computed to exceed 
12,000,000 of inhabitants, an estimate probably then greatly within the mark, and 
certainly at present, after such a period, of uninterrupted peace, much more so, 
notwithstanding the occasional prevalence of epidemic distempers. In the com- 
putation above referred to, the inhabitants subject to the Rajas of Mysore, Tra- 
vancore, and Cochin are not included. 

Besides the land revenue, the other sources from whence the public receipts 
of the Madras government are drawn consist of the government customs both 
by sea and land ; the latter being levied on the articles of inland trade, on thei^ 
transit through the country, and on their entrance into particular towns ; of a 
monopoly of the sale and manufacture of salt; of the licensed- sale of toddy and 
arrack; and, in some parts of the country, of the licensed sale of betel and 
tobacco, and of stamp duties and fees on judicial proceedings. The mode and 
principles, according to which these branches of the public resources 'are. con- 
ducted am similar to those whidrobtain under the Bengal government. The 
collectors, to whom is confided, under the superintendence of the presidency, due 
local management of the revenues, are 21 in number, exclusive of a s s is t ant cojl- 
lectorships. The following table is an abstract of the total gfdss public revenue 
under the Madras presidency for the year 1816-17, leering out the fractiosal 
parts. 



madras Tfttiimcr.] 


THE CARNATIC. 


421 


TOTAL GROSS COLLECTION OF THE PUBLIC REVENUE UNDER 
THE PRESIDENCY OF FORT GEORGE. 


NAMES Of THE 
CQUECTORSHIPS. 


Collection for Fully 1226, or from the 12th July, 1816, to theinh 
of July, 1817. 


Lend i 
Revenue. 

Sdt. 

Land ] 
Customs. I 

Exclusive 
Sate of 
Sfftrits. • 
Abkarry. 

Sundry 

•mall 

branches 

of 

Revenue,! 

Stamp*. 

Tobacco 

Mono* 

polj. 

Total. 

Star 

Star * 

Star ^ 

Star 

Star 

Star 

Star 

Star 

Pagoda*. 

Pagoda*. 

Pagodas. 

Pagoda*. 

Pagoda*. 

Pagodas. 

Pagoda*. 

Pagoda*. 

143.795 

46,935 

6,986 

19,790 


1,787 


31*356 

364,911 

33,036 

17.159 

14,014 


3.093 


«i,!38 

4*1 

b ' 

M 


„■ 




568.467 

67,023 

now 

. 11361 

655 

5,099 


674,550 

*,696 

176**38 

1.173 

1,463 

1,118 

366 



6.748 

94,661 

43,634 

•30,314 

4,99* 

6,583 


386,043 

309.406 

eo.m 

n^to 

*5,067 

381 

16,645 

3.T56 


419,738 

304.016 

16384 

11*973 

1,740 

8,608 


413,034 

1^46 


361' 

. 948 

66 



9,031 

476.919 

3&57 

97,991 

9,966 

1,783 

3,496 


319,458 

437,966 

54,633 

9,063 

985 

3,109 


541335 

347 ,03 J 

99,603 

30,735 

6.917 

959 

3*939 

** 

6883*6 

738,3*5 

639,889 

M 

40311 


5*675 

3*540 

» 

Main 

44334 

43*613 


110 

4,883 

so 

735 

647,954 

l.t*8 

5,030 

60,434 

4,000 

4,186 

66,096 

6548 

*10 

Of- 

9386 

so | 

*9^86 

1,086,641 

1393 

'961! 

' *3{ 

m 

N 

4399 

439,183 

M 

40,631 

8 347 

1*638! 

4*055 

Of 

493,739 

480,961 

43,613 

30/163 

3,994 

M 1 

4996 


*564,131' 

•» * 

» 

•6* 

* j 

r.9911 

M 1 

SS 

7,991 

814,979 

so 

75333 

80,357 

8.1711 

8386 


981,9*; 

759,083 

683,701 

1 . »»* 

43,696 

*0,679 

3,930 

5,775 

M 

1 38I.995> 

35,994 

6,169 

rn 

8,786 

40,719 

644094 

! 491,528; 60*039 

• 77,931 

9,795 

7,471 

4340 

63379 

7 JL 8,085 

I 487,034, 39,508 

18,37* 

18^9* 

14*811 

5*805 

79300 

677,013 

9,187 
1 9,047 

j 13363 

•• * 

* », 
9,648 

698 

r/fro 

547 

401 

■c 

99 

19,69* 

15,901 

153,043 

94,199 

9,938 

1334 


98MD31 

j 9,633,101 

737,939 

889,900 

406,910 

89,363 

89386 

*84398 

19330399] 

1 


% 

% V. 


itulMtun • • » • « 
' Hntc/i pmeuiont m ditto . 
& Rajamundr j ...... 


i Masollpetiun 

5. Guntoor, Including Paliraod 

;* 0. ..... 

Dutch, pmeniom in ditto 
f, Salem and Berraraahal . 

8. Madu to ...... 

0* NeHoreaud Ongokt • . 

' 10. Northern division of A root 
Hutch pMMMimt In ditto 
It. Southern division of Arcot 
Pondicherry in ditto • • 
IS. Tutjm ...... 

Foreign prntnuom in ditto 

13. Trtewnopolj 

14 TtoneveUy 

Hutch Moraumi in ditto 

15. Rellary 

16. Cuddapah 

17. Ccrimbatoor 

IS. Canata ...... 

19 . Mafatiar province . , . 


Am account of the Revenues and Charges of the Madras Presidency for the year 

. 1816-11 


Mint duties . . 

Post office collections . 

Stamp duties • • • • 

Judicial fees, fines, 8cc . .. 

Farms and licences of exclusive privilege' oj ancient 

. possessions > 

Customs of ancient possessions . 

land and sayer revenue of ancient possessions, -iu- 
cluding the Circar and Jaghire lands . 

Land revenue and customs fro m toe Oansstic ... . . 
Ditto ditto from Tanjore ; . . . '•» . . . . . 


32,810 pagodas. 
48,662 
96,421 
.63,704 


209,82- 

484.680 


2 , 120,082 
3 , 321)1 10 
1 , 063,598 









422 THE CARNATIC. [madras peesidxnct. 

Land revenue and customs from the ceded and con- 
quered provinces in Mysore, Malabar, &c. ♦ . . 2,778,108 pagodas. 

Ditto ditto in the country ceded by the Nizam . . 1,782,462 

Sale of salt in ancient possessions 334,781 

Subsidy from Mysore 7,000,000 

Ditto Travancore 223,745 

Ditto Cochin 78,860 

Marine: receipt for boats, light-house, &c. . . . 19,921 


Total revenue 13,348,619 

At 8s. per pagoda £5,339,448 

Deduct charges 5,103,194 


Net revenue ^236,254 

Charges . 

Mint charges 42,259 pagodas. 

Post office charges 61,990 

Charges of the civil establishment 689,814 

Stamp office charges 9,157 


Total civil charges 803,220 

Judicial charges, viz. supreme court of judicature and 

law charges . . 132,370 

Charges of the Sudder and Zillah courts of police . 537,000 


Total judicial (ancient possessions) 669,370 

Charges collecting the customs in (ancient possessions) 117,813 

Ditto revenues ditto 571,817 

Carnatic — Charges collecting the revenues and cus- 
toms, judicial, 8cc. charges 1,022,906 

Tanjore, ditto ditto 444,889 

Ceded and conquered provinces, ditto ditto . . . 636,689 

Countries ceded by the Nizam, ditto ditto .... 238,321 

Salt, advances and charges, in ancient possessions . 43,496 

Military charges 8,011,174 

Buildings and fortifications 159,713 

Marine charges 38,583 


Total charges 12,757,985 


At 8s. Mr tttumdii im i*m 



423 


MADRAS PRESIDENCY,] THE CARNATIC. 

The estimated revenue of the Madras Presidency for 

1817-18 amounted to 13,018,810 pagodas. 

The estimated charges of ditto .ditto . . . 13,699,221 

Surplus charges by estimate . . 680,411 

An account of the territorial debts owing at the Madras Presidency, on the 
31st of October, 1817 : — 

At 6 per cent, interest £2,358,183 

At 8 per cent, ditto 17,600 


2,375,783 

Debts not bearing interest 821,344 


Total . . £3,197,127 


The Company is possessed bf property to a considerable amount, which, from 
not being considered as available, is not usually inserted among the assets. This 
property consists of plate, household ftirniture, guns on the ramparts, arms, and 
military stores; to which might be added the buildings. 

In 1810, the sum estimated to have been expended on build- 
ings and fortifications was £1,840,682 

Plate, furniture, plantations, farms, vessels, stores, &c. &c. . . 447,798 

£2,288,480 

In 1811, the number of civil servants on the Madras establishment was 206, 
in 1818, 241. In 1811, the regular troops of all descriptions under the Madras 
presidency, amounted to 60,456, and the officers to 1347. No distinct return of 
the Madras army up to the present date could be procured ; but in 1818, the mi- 
l»t ary officers had increased to 1504, .and the medical officers were 1 83. In 1 813, 
die European inhabitants not in the service, residing within the limits of the 
Madras presidency, were estimated at only 170, which appears greatly under the 
real number. 

In a military point of view, the great, line of defence of the territories under 
the Madras presidency may be considered as beginning at Fort St. George and 
extending to Vellore, Bangalore, Seringapatam, and, passing through Wynsad, 
descends the Western Ghauts to Tellichery. On this line there are strong 
fortresses, capable of containing every description of military stores and equip- 
ment, as well as magazines of provisions. The advanced line of fortification is 
in the Balaghaut Ceded Districts and north of Mysore, comprehending Chittel- 
droog, Bellary, and Gooty. Another-frontier line of posts, which covers the 
Northern Circars and a large portion of the Nizam’s dominions, commences at 



422 THE CARNATIC. [madeas phesidincy. 

Land revenue and customs from the ceded and con- 
quered provinces in Mysore, Malabar, &c. . . . 2,778,108 pagod&s. 

Ditto ditto in the country ceded by the Nizam . . 1,782,462 

Sale salt in ancient possessions 334,781 

Subsidy from Mysore 7,000,000 

Ditto Travancore 223,745 

Ditto Cochin 78,860 

Marine : receipt for boats, light-house, &c. . . . 19,92! 


Total revenue 13,348,619 

At 8s. per pagoda £5,339,448 

Deduct charges 5,103,194 


Net revenue £236,254 

Charges. 

Mint charges 42,259 pagodas. 

Post office charges 61,990 

Charges of the civil establishment 689,814 

Stamp office charges 9,157 


Total civil charges 803,220 

Judicial charges, viz. supreme court of judicature and 

law charges . . 132,370 

Charges of the Sudder and Zillah courts of police . 537,000 


Total judicial (ancient possessions) 669,370 

Charges collecting the customs in (ancient possessions) 117,813 

Ditto revenues ditto 571,817 

Carnatic — Charges collecting the revenues and cus- 
toms, judicial, &c. charges 1,022,906 

Tanjore, ditto ditto 444,889 

Ceded and conquered provinces, ditto ditto . . . 636,689 

Countries ceded by the Nizam, ditto ditto .... 238,321 

Salt, advances and charges, in ancient possessions . 43,496 

Military charges . 8,011,174 

Buildings and fortifications 159,713 

Marine charges 38,583 


Total charges 12,757,985 

/ 


At 8s. per pagoda £5,103*194 



423 


MADRAS PRESIDENCY,] THE CARNATIC. 

The estimated revenue of the Madras Presidency for 


1817-18 amounted to 13,018,810 pagodas. 

The estimated charges of ditto .ditto . . . 13,699,221 

Surplus charges by estimate . . 680,41 1 

An account of the territorial debts owing at the Madras Presidency, on the 
31st of October, 1817 : — 

At 6 per cent, interest £2,358,183 

At 8 per cent* ditto . . 17,600 


2,375,783 

Debts not bearing interest 821,344 


Total . . £3,197,127 


The Company is possessed 'of property to a considerable amount, which, from 
not being considered as available, is not usually inserted among the assets. This 
property consists of plate, household ftirniture, guns on the ramparts, arms, and 
military stores ; to which might be added the buildings. 

In 1810, the sum estimated to have been expended on build- 
ings and fortifications was £1,840,682 

Plate, furniture, plantations, farms, vessels, stores, See. Sc c. . . 447,798 

£2,288,480 

In 1811, the number of civil servants on the Madras establishment was 200, 
in 1818, 241. In 1811, the regular troops of all descriptions under the Madras 
presidency, amounted to 50,456, and the officers to 1347. No distinct return of 
the Madras army up to the present date could be procured ; but in 1818, the mi- 
l*f ary officers had increased to 1504, .and the medical officers were 183. In 1 813, 
die European inhabitants not in the service, residing within the limits of the 
Madras presidency, were estimated at only 170, which appears greatly under the 
real number. 

In a military point of view, the great line of defence of the territories under 
the Madras presidency may be considered as beginning at Fort St. George and 
extending to Vellore, Bangalore, Seringapatam, and, passing through Wynaad, 
descends the Western Ghauts to Tellichery. On this line there are strong 
fortresses, capable of containing every description of military stores and equip- 
ment, as well as magazines of provisions. The advanced line of fortification is 
in the Balaghaut Ceded Districts and north of Mysore, comprehending Chittel- 
droog, Bellary, and Gooty* Another-frontier line of posts, which covers the 
Northern Circars and a large portion of the Nizam’s dominions, commences at 



424 THE CARNATIC. [kiuou ft ohgolje. 

M&sniipat&m and extends in . a northerly direction by Ellore and Hyderabad to 
Jalna, where it is taken up by the Bombay army, and extends across the Deccan 
by Serroor and Poona to Bombay. 

Since the completion of the arrangements for the government of the extensive 
territories subject to this presidency, one circumstance has peculiarly contributed 
to improve the condition of the great body of the natives, which is, the vigour 
and efficiency of the administration; neither permitting nor acknowledging di- 
vided rights of sovereignty, but keeping every other power in due subordination. 
The beneficial operation of this decided conduct has been greatly felt in Bengal, 
but much more on the coast of Coromandel, arising from the greater degree in 
which a turbulent and warlike spirit pervaded the zemindars, the poligatB, and 
other chiefs. While they maintained their military retainers and establishments, 
they not only bid defiance to government, but were constantly carrying on petty 
wars against each other, by which the fields of the cultivator were overrun and 
laid waste, his crops destroyed, and whatever other property he possessed fell a 
sacrifice to the predatory bands of the contending parties. At present there exists 
not, unless in the hills of the Northern Circars, and in a few. other places, any mi- 
litary force kept up by individuals. The unruly and restless spirit of the poligar 
is gradually giving way to the peaceable habits of the landholder, and the 
peasant is enabled to pursue the cultivation of his fields without danger or ap- 
prehension. The evils which were formerly continual are now only occa- 
sionally experienced, and promptly and efficaciously suppressed by a vigorous 
government, whose duty it is to ensure equal protection to all ranks of its sub- 
jects. — (5th Report, Hodgson, Sir Samuel Auchmuty, R. Grant, 8$c. <5pc. &$c.) 

THE DISTRICT OF NELLORE AND ONGOLE. 

A district in the Northern Carnatic, situated between the 14th and 16th de- 
grees of north latitude, and, besides die subdivisions above named, includes also 
some of the Western pollams. To the north it is bounded by the Ountoor dis- 
trict, on the south by the northern division of Arcot, to the east it has the Bay 
of Bengal, and on the west the district of Cuddapah. The principal river is the'. 
Pennar, but the country is also traversed by many small streams flowing from the 
Eastern Ghaut mountains into the Bay of Bengal. Hie principal towns use 
Nellpre, Ongole, and SerapiHy. In 1861, several copper names were discovered 
in this district, portions of which were sent home and assayed. Although net 
equally rich in the metal, they were found to be remarkably fusible, e*f|? 
free from iron, and consequently well adapted for sheathing. These miues wese 
in oonsequence leased to a contractor for five years, by the Madras presidency, 
in preference to working them on government account. QaemUaMhatf# 



hellor*.] THE CARNATIC. 425 

the circumstances, it was draught that the direct interests of a speculator would 
Mtundly stimulate to greater exertion, and a more economical expenditure in 
effecting the object, than could- foe expected from the employmene*of a govern- 
ment agent j the latter having an immediate reward for his labour in a competent 
salary, whatever his success be, whereas the speculator is compelled to complete 
his purpose on the most prudent plan and least loss of time, as it is on its ac- 
complishment that he depends for his reward and reimbursement. One specimen 
of the ore weighing 20 cwt. yielded 9cwt. lqr., but as no subsequent export 
of die article took place it is probable the speculation proved delusive. 

The manufacture and sale of salt is carried on to a greater extent in the 
Nellore district than in any other under the Madras presidency. The quantity 
exported in 1808 amounted to 221,600 Bengal maunds of 80 lbs. each. In 
A. D. 1817, the total gross collection of the public revenue in this district was 


as follows: — 

Land revenue 547,053 pagodas. 

Salt 99,603 

Land customs 50,755 

Exclusive sale of spirits (abkarry) 6,917 

Sundry small branches of revenue 259 

Stam P 9 3,939 

Tobacco monopoly 

Total . . G88.528 


(Public MS. Documents, 5th Report, %c. %c.) 

Nellore (Ailaver). — The capital of the preceding district, situated on the 
south side of the Pennar river, from which it is distant about 500 yards. Lat. 
14 ® 29' N. long. 80° T E. 100 miles N. by W. from Madras. In 1757, when this 
place was besieged by Colonel Forde, it extended about 1200 yards from east to 
wfost, and 600 on the other sides. The walls were of mud, and only the gateway 
and a few of the towers of stone. The parapet was six feet high, with many port 
holm for small arms, made of pipes of baked clay laid in the moist mud whilst 
raising, and afterwards consolidated with the mass, which is the common mode 
of making these defences in India. On this occasion Colonel Forde, although 
an officer of the first ability, was obliged to raise the siege. It was subsequently 
acquired by the Nabobs of Arcot, and in 1801, ceded by treaty along with the 
district to the British government, and placed under the presidency of Madras. 

’ Jtt 1787 , a peasant near this town found his plough obstructed by some brick 
wor ^» having dug, he discovered the remains of a small Hindoo temple, 
under which a little pot was found, containing Roman coins and medals of the 
jii* 3 % 



438 THE CARNATIC. [abmsook. 

The ore is of that nature as to require no other previous operation for smelting, 
but the easy one of reducing the larger pieces to a smaller size, as it has neither 
sulphur, arsenic, nor any admixture that requires separation ; nor does it want 
any addition, beyond a moderate quantity of charcoal, for bringing it to the 
highest state of purity, the substance existing nearly in a metallic state* 

The countries in this part of India in which copper ores have been discovered 
are Colastry, Vencatagherry, Uddegherry, Dupaud, and some other places in the 
Ceded Districts ; but the richest are in the Colastry zemindary. The principal 
mines opened by Captain Ashton lie within a short distance of each other on the 
banks of the rivers Pellapeyroo and Vipuragoo. The most promising are close 
to a village named Gurramenpettah, where, at the depth of from 4 to 15 feet, 
a great quantity of the best ore has been found. Dr. Heyne recommends these 
mines to attention : — 1st, On account of their advantageous situation, only 30 
miles from the sea, and within 20 of fuel; 2dly, on account of the river, which 
is capable of being rendered navigable ; 3dly, on account of the general and 
particular rock formation in which the ores found being known co be usually 
rich in metal ; and lastly, on account of the intrinsic excellence of the ore. — 
( Heyne, $c.) 

Colour*. — A town in the Carnatic, 38 miles west from Nellore. Lat. 14° 31' N. 
long. 79° 26' £. 

Pamour. — A town and small pergunnah in the Northern Carnatic, district of 
Ongole, 36 miles S. W. from the town of Ongole. Lat. 15° 2' N. long. 79° 26' E. 
At the village of Yerrapilly, in this district, by digging from one to two fathoms 
under ground, copper ore of a rich quality is procured, said to yield 60 percent, 
of the pure metal. The species of ore found here is that named the anhydrous 
carbonate of copper. The general use of copper and brass vessels all over 
India, and the preference given to them by the natives over every other kind of 
metal, render it probable, and appearances indicate, that large quantities of 
copper were atone time collected here; but the European metal can now -be 
imported at so much cheaper a rate, that the working of these mines has for 
many years been intermitted. 

Paliconda. — A town in the Nellore district, 21 miles W. S. W. from Ongole. 
Lat. 15° 10'N. long. 79° 38' E. 

Aum£gon.— A town in the Carnatic, 66 miles N. from Madras. Lat. 14* N. 
long. 80° IT E. This was the" first English settlement in the Carnatic until 
the acquisition of Madras. In A. D. 1611(5, the East India Company’s principal 

"epts having obtained a piece of ground from the. Naik or chief of the district, 
r erected a factory at this place. In 1628, it is described as beingdefended 
pieces of cannon mounted round the factory, with a guard of28 factors 



THE CARNATIC. 429 

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ARCOT. 

A collectorship in the Carnatic, under the Madras presidency, which also in- 
cludes Sativaid, Pulicat, Cooncoody in the Barramahal, put of the Balaghaut, 
and of the Western Pollams. Its limits are ill defined, bnt it may be described 
generally as bounded 1 on the north by Cuddapah and Nellore ; on the south by 
the southern division of Arcot ; on the east it has the sea and the district of 
Chingleput ; and on the west the Balaghaut of Cuddapah. While under Ma- 
hommed Ali, the Nabob of the Carnatic, his pecuniary necessities led him to 
adopt a system which can never fail of ruining a country, namely, that of rent- 
ing the whole territory from year to year to the highest bidder. The conse- 
quences were such as might have easily been predicted, and when transferred to 
the British in 1801, the population had dwindled away, and the cultivators that 
remained were in a state of extreme wretchedness, while the condition of the 
tanks and water courses was ruinous. What cultivation still existed was effected 
by compulsion, the peasant’s share amounting to no more than he could make 
away with and conceal. 

In 1809, as preparatory to the introduction of a less injurious system, the 
lands were leased to renters for three years, and, as was to be expected, frequent 
disputes arose between the cultivators and the renters, the one complaining of 
unjust demands, the other of unnecessary and evasive delay in the payment of 
the rent ; such disputes being consequential to the commencement of a new sys- 
tem, and before the nature of the respective rights of the parties had been 
marked and defined by precedent. The triennial settlement for 1811, the con- 


cluding year, was 

Land rent 644,192 pagodas. 

Farms and licences 19,218 

Duties and other sources 28,877 

Offerings at the Tripetty pagoda 60,722 , 


Total . . 743,011 

The above revenue was assessed on the northern division of Arcot, the as- 
sumed Pollams, Colastry, and Bomrauze ; talooks transferred from the southern 
division of Arcot; Cooncoody, in the Barramahal, and Vencatagherry Cotta, in 
the Ba lagh a ut . 

In 1810, the rented villages in this district were 3634 ; villages not rented, 65 ; 
.besides deserted villages. The large tanks, the water of which contributed to 
the revenue, were in number 2698, of which 451 were out of repair; smaller 
tank .1881; of which 510 were out of repair. 



430 THE CARNATIC. [arcot. 

The water courses from rivers were 678 

Ditto ditto springs 647 

Ditto ditto anicuts 238 

Ditto ditto wells 19,223 


Of the'se last, 5487 required repair; and from the above enumeration may be 
inferred how much the agriculture of this division depends on irrigation and the 
good condition of the tanks. In 1817, the total gross collection of the public 


revenue was as follows : — 

Land revenue 659,889 pagodas. 

Salt 

Land customs 40,811 

Exclusive sale of spirits (abkarry) 22,208 

Sundry small branches of revenue 5,875 

Stamps . . * 5,540 

Tabacco monopoly 

Total . . 734,325 


The chief river of this district is the Palaur ; and the principal towns Arcot, 
Wallajanagur, Vellore, Chittoor, and Tripetty . — (Public MS. Documents , 
Hodgson , &$c. §c.) 

Arcot ( Arucati ). — The Mussulmaun capital of the Carnatic, situated on the 
south side of the Palaur river, 68 miles W.S.W. from Madras. Lat. 12° 52* N. 
long, 79° 22' E. The bed of the river Palaur is at this place half a mile wide, 
but in the dry season does not contain a stream sufficient to turn a mill. The 
hills in the neighbourhood are extremely barren. They are of granite and ap- 
pear to be undergoing a rapid decay. In many parts of the vallies formed by 
these hills, chunam or limestone nodules is found, which, in Bengal, is called 
conkar. The country from hence to Vellore is but thinly peopled, and a con- 
siderable portion of the land still waste. 

Arcot was the nominal capital of the Carnatic below the Ghauts, as the 
Nabob's dominions were called by the English and Mahommedans ; and it is said 
to have been noticed by Ptolemy as the capital of the Sorae, or Soramundalum, 
from whence corruptly, Coromandel ; but the existing town is quite of modem 
date. After the Mogul armies captured Ginjee, they found it so extremely un- 
healthy that they were obliged to canton on the plains of Arcot, which ted to 
the establishment of that capital about 1716. At present the town is chiefly in- 
habited by Mahommedans, who speak the Deccany dialect, which we name 
Hindostany.. The town surrounds the glacis on all sides, and is 



thipettt.] THE CARNATIC. 431 

houses also are as good as near to Madras. There is a manufacture of coarse 
cloths here, but they are dearer than in Bengal. 

Anwar ud Deen, the Nabob of Arcot, was killed in battle A. D. 1749, after 
which, this place was taken by Chundasaheb, the French candidate. In 1751,. 4 
it was retaken .by Captain Clive, with 200 Europeans and 300 sepoys; the 
garrison being panic struck made no resistance, although they amounted to 1100 
men. He was immediately besieged by the French and their allies ; but, not- 
withstanding his garrison consisted of only 120 Europeans and 200 sepoys filfor 
service, he resisted 50 days under every disadvantage, and at last compelled the 
enemy to raise the siege. It afterwards fell into the possession of the French 
native allies, but was finally taken in February, 1760, by Colonel Coote, after the 
battle of Wandiwash. In 1780 it surrendered to Hyder, and with it& vicinity 
suffered greatly by his different invasions, and also during the misgovernment of 
the Nabob’s revenue officers. 

Travelling distance from Madras, 73 miles; from Seringapatam, 217; from 
Calcutta, 1070; and from Delhi, 1277. — (F. Buchanan, Orme, Wilks, Ren- 
nell , 8;c.) 

Coolasgur ( Cailasghur ). — A town in the Carnatic, 84 miles W. S. W. from 
Madras. Lat. 12° 45' N. long. 79° 8' E. 

Dobyghur. — A town in the Carnatic* 20 miles S.W. from Arcot. Lat. 
12* 42' N. long. 79° 8' E. 

Chandgherry (Chandraghiri ). — A town in the Northern District of ArCot, 
85 miles N. W. from Madras. Lat. 13°43'N. long. 79° 17'E, This was the 
capital of the Hindoo kingdom known by the appellation of Narsinga, which, in 
1599, comprehended Tanjore and Madura. In 1640, the English were permitted 
by one of these princes to settle at Madras. In 1646, the Mahommedan states, 
of Golconda and Bejapoor possessed themselves of this place, and also of 
Vellore. The citadel of Chandgherry is built on the summit of a stupendous 
rock, with a fortified town at its foot. — ( Renncll, Wilks , <%c.) 

Tai petty (Tripati). — The most celebrated Hindoo temple south of the 
Krishna, situated in lat. 13° 46' N. long. 79° 24' E. 80 miles N. W. trom Madras. 
This pagoda, is placed in an elevated hollow or basin, enclosed by a circular 
crest of hills, the sacred precincts of which have never been profaned by 
Christian or Mahommedan feet, nor has even the exterior of the temple been 
seen but by a genuine Hindoo. The reciprocal interests of the Brahmins, and 
of the different rulers under whose sway it fell, compromised this forbearance 
by the payment of a large sum to the government, which in 1758 amounted to 
£80,000 sterling* The incarnation of Vishnu worshipped here, has a variety 
ot names, such as Vencata Rama and Tripati; but by the Maharattas he is 



432 THE CARNATIC. [Chittoo*. 

named Ballajee, and bis functions an supposed to have a particular reference 
to commerce. Crowds of pilgrims resort to the sanctuary from all parts of 
India, who pour into it offerings of goods, grain, gold, silver, jewels, precious 
stuffy horses, cows, and other articles, the aggregate of which, when converted 
into money, not only yields a surplus revenue to the government, but serves to 
maintain several thousand persons performing the offices of an idolatrous wor- 
ship, which is here conducted with extraordinary pomp. The traders of the 
Banyan and Battia tribes of Gujerat are accustomed to present a per centage 
of their profits to the temple annually. The amount realized to the British i 
government at this temple, in 1809, was 60,791 star pagodas; in 1810, 50,722; \ 
and in 1811, 50,722, or about £19,000 sterling. 

In 1801, while this temple was still under the superintendance of the Nabob 
of Arcot and his officers, Ragotum Row Rajindra, finance minister to his high- 
ness the Nizam, notified to Lord Clive, then governor of Madras, his intention 
of expiating his sins by a pilgrimage to Tripetty, and requesting his lordship’s 
interference with the Nabob to secure him a safe passage through the Arcot 
territories and a civil reception on his arrival at the holy place. His lordship 
accordingly issued the necessary orders, and the first object was fully attained, 
but the second was entirely defeated by the insolence of the Nabob’s servants, 
who had the immediate supervision of the pagoda. In consequence of the dis- 
respect shewn to the British authority, it was deemed incumbent to require the 
Nabob to dismiss his head officer at the temple, withwhich injunction he nomi- 
nally complied ; but Lord Clive was compelled to enforce the execution of his 
mandate by detaching a party of horse to Tripetty for that purpose. Previous 
to commencing this expedition, the Nizam’s financier presented through Captain 
Achilles Kirkpatrick, then Resident at Hyderabad, a paper of requests, the 
second of which was “ that the high priest of the temple should be prohibited 
from appropriating to his own use any of the cloths or ornaments which Raja 
Ragotum might present to Sri Raggojee,” a larceny, which, from the precau- 
tions nature of the stipulation, this sacred functionary appears lo have been in 
the habit of practising . — ( Wilks, Public MS. Documents, Moor, 8$c. $c.) 

Bomrauzepollcm.— A town in the Carnatic, 61 miles N. N. W. from Madias. 
Lat. 13° 25' N. long. 79® 30' E. 

Naoheby (Nagari).— A town in the Carnatic, 50 miles W.N. W. from Mb* 
dras. Lat. 13° Iff N. long. 79° 39' E.’ ' 

Chittoob (Chaitur). — A small town and district on the Western frontier of 
the Carnatic, 82 miles west from Madras. Lat. 13 s 15' N. long. 79 s ItfE. The 
tfhittoor poUams or estates came into the p os s e s s i on of the British y mrra m ra sut 
under the treaty with the Nabob of Arcot in 180). The R^gus baid long been 



Vellore.] THE CARNATIC. 433 

turbulent and refractory subjects of the Nabob, a continuance of which conduct 
rendered it necessary to send a military force against them in 1804. Two of 
them having surrendered at the commencement, the others were driven into the 
the jungles, and their forts demolished ; tranquillity, however, was not restored 
until the beginning of 1805, when the system of fixed rents on the lands of each 
cultivator was introduced, which has besides been attended with a considerable 
increase of revenue. The Chittoor lands were permanently assessed in 1802-3. 
The country of the Chittoor and Western Poligars is very strong, being placed 
between the range of hills which bound the Balaghaut, and a second chain, ap- 
proaching within a few miles of the sea, near to the lake of Pulicat. These 
form an irregular concave sweep, of varied elevation, stretching to within a short 
distance of the town of Madras. — (5th Report , Wilks , §c.) 

Viranciijpura. — An open town in the Carnatic, 15 miles west from Vellore. 
Lat. 12° 54' N. long. 78° 57 E. This was formerly a large place, and possessed 
many public buildings, both Hindoo and Mahommedan, but the whole suffered 
extremely during the wars of last century with Hyder. A large temple, dedi- 
cated to Iswara, escaped the destruction that befel the rest, owing to its having 
been surrounded by a very strong wall of cut granite, which excluded irregu- 
lars; and Hyder took no delight in demolishing temples, as his son Tippoo did. 
(F. Buchanan , 8$c.) 

Vellore (Velur ). — A town and fortress, to which a district was formerly 
attached, situated in lat. 12° 57' N. long.79°ll'E. 80 miles W. by S. from Ma- 
dras. By the natives it is named Ray Ellore, to distinguish it from the Ellorc 
in the Northern Circars. The lands here present a greater degree of verdure 
than is commonly seen in the Carnatic, owing, probably, to a subterranean 
supply of water. During the dry season, the whole of the rice fields are irri- 
gated by means of canals, which are either dug across the dry channels of 
rivers, below* the surface of which there is always moisture found, or it is con- 
ducted from places in which subterranean streams have been discovered. In 
some parts near the Palaur, indigo is cultivated. 

The town of Vellore was formerly a post of great importance, as it com- 
manded the main road leading to the Upper Carnatic from the Valley of 
V&iiambady, which is the most direct route to and from the Mysore. The 
walls of the fort are built of very large stones, and have bastions and round 
towers at short distances. A fausse-bray Hues the walls between them, and, 
with its embattled rampart and small overhanging square towers, produces a 
very handsome effect. A deep and wide ditch, cut chiefly out of the solid rock, 
surrounds the whole fort, except at one entrance, where there was a causeway 
according to the Hindostamy system; and, in addition to the usual means of de- 
void n. 3 K 



434 THE CARNATIC. [walajanagub. 

fence, the ditch contains alligators of a very large size. The fortress is so com- 
pletely commanded by the hills, that a six-pounder can throw a shot over it* 
but the conquest of Mysore has rendered it now comparatively of little im- 
portance. 

The Mahommedan states of Golconda and Bejapoor possessed themselves of 
Vellore and Chandergherry, in A. D. 1646. In 1677, Sevajee made an unex- 
pected irruption into the Carnatic, and captured this place and Ginjee. During 
the war of 1782, it was relieved by Sir Eyre Coote in the face of Hyder’s whole 
army. After the conquest of Seringapatam, and the destruction of the short-r 
lived Mahommedan dynasty, Tippoo’s family were for security removed to 
Vellore, and consisted in all of 12 sons and eight daughters. Futteh Hyder,\ 
the eldest but illegitimate son, had 12 or 14 children. The four elder sons were\ 
allowed 50,000 rupees, and the younger 25,000 rupees per annum each. The \ 
females were nearly 800 in number, and were handsomely provided for, their 
condition being altogether much better than it would have been under any suc- 
cessor of Tippoo s. They had been collected from many quarters, and each 
furnished her apartment according to the fashion of her own country. 

On the 10th of July, 1806, a most atrocious revolt and massacre of their 
officers and Europeans took place among the native troops in garrison, in which, 
from extensive evidence taken immediately after the event, it was proved, the 
family of Tippoo, particularly the eldest, Moiz ud Deen, took an open and active 
share. The insurgents were subdued and mostly put to the sword by Colonel 
Gillespie and a party of the 19th Dragoons; and, to prevent the recurrence of a 
similar calamity, the instigators were removed to Bengal. Travelling distance 
from Madras 88 miles; from Seringapatam 202 miles. — (Lord Valentia, Rermell , 
Wilks, fyc.J 

Palaur River (or Milk River ). — This river has its source in the Mysore 
province, among the hills of Nundydroog, not far from the Pennaur; the first 
flowing to the south, the latter to the north. The Palaur, after a winding course 
of about 220 miles through the Mysore and Carnatic, falls into the Bay of 
Bengal near Sadras. 

Walajanagur. — A town in the Carnatic province, situated on the north 
side of the Palaur river, 65 miles W. by S. from Madras. Lat. 11°40'N. long. 
78° 5' E. This town was built by the Nabob of Arcot, Mahommed Ali Walajah, 
and named after himself. To people it the inhabitants were removed from Lal- 
pettah and other places, which with Mahommedan princes in Hindustan is a 
common practice. It soon after had the misfortune to f^ll into the hands of 
Hyder, who did not spare it, but on the restoration of peace it was again 
fostered by the Nabob. At present it has attained a great size, is regularly 



Amboor.} THE CARNATIC. 435 

built! rich, and populous, with an ample supply of provisions, which are cheap 
and abundant* Its fortifications are mouldering to decay, but as the place has 
not now any enemy to apprehend, the loss is of little consequence. Almost the 
whole of the trade between the country above the Eastern Ghauts and the sea 
centres here; and it is said a larger assortment of goods can be procured atWala- 
janagur than in any town to the south of the Krishna, Madras excepted. The 
transportation of goods is effected by large parties of inland carriers, who pos- 
sess numerous droves of oxen, there being no internal navigation as in Bengal, 
nor any roads fit for wheeled carriages. — ( F. Buchanan , , Heyne, §c.) 

Caverypauk. — A large town in the Carnatic, 57 miles W. S. W. from Ma- 
dras. Lat. 12° 53' N. long. 79° 3 1' E. Here is a great eray, or tank, about eight 
miles long by three broad, which fertilizes a considerable tract of country. 
Prom Outoor to Caverypauk the barren ridge on which the road leads is nar- 
row, and the country being abundantly supplied with water from the great tank 
has a handsome appearance. After passing Caverypauk towards Arcot, the 
barren ridge is more extensive, and in most places consists of immense beds of 
granite, or of that rock decomposed into coarse sand, almost destitute of ver- 
dure. — (F. Buchanan , §c.) 

Trivatoor. — A town in the Carnatic, 59 miles S. W. from Madras. Lat. 12° 
39' N. long. 79° 37' E. 

Ait nee ( Aram ). — A town in the Carnatic province, northern division of Arcot, 
74 miles S.W. from Madras. Lat. 12°46'N. long. 79° 23' E. During Hyders 
invasion of the Carnatic, in 1782, his great magazines were deposited in the 
fortress of Arnee. 

Amboor. — A town in the Carnatic province, bordering on the Balaghaut, 108 
miles W. S. W. from Madras. Lat. 12° 49' N. long. 78° 46' E. The Amboor divi- 
sion is comprised within a range of hills of a moderate height. The river Palaur, 
declining from its apparent southerly direction, enters this tract about three 
miles from the eastward, and washes the Amboor pettah, distant three miles to 
the southward of the fort. The skirts of the hills are covered with palmira and 
date trees., from the produce of which a considerable quantity of coarse sugar is 
made. This territory is fertilized by numerous rills of water, conducted from 
the river along the margin of the heights, as a supply to the rice fields, the 
tobacco, coco-nut, and mangoe plantations. In the hot weather, in the low 
country, the thermometer under the cover of a tent rises to 100°, and exposed 
to the rays of the sun to 120°. 

The village of Amboor is neat and regularly built ; its inhabitants are indus- 
trious, and make a considerable quantity of castor oil, which they export. On 
the left side of it is a lofty isolated mountain, on which formerly stood a fort 

3 k 2 



THE CARNATIC. 


436 


[SOUTHERN ARCOIV 


almost impregnable by nature. The upper works have been destroyed since it 
came into the possession of the British, and the lower is a place of confinement 
for malefactors. The plain on the top is of sufficient extent to have rendered 
its cultivation an object of importance, and on it are two tanks, near to where 
the barracks formerly stood. The view from thence is noble and extended, and 
the air cool in comparison with what it is below. This district suffered greatly 
during Hyder s different invasions of what we call the Carnatic, from which it 
has not yet altogether recovered. Near Amboor the* Barramahal ends, and the 
Arcot territories commence. — ( Martine , Salt, F. Buchanan, &>c.) 

Pulicat (Valiacata ). — A town on the sea coast of the Carnatic, 23 miles N- 
from Madras. Lat. 13° 25' N. long. 80° 24' E. The lake of Pulicat, on which! 
it stands, appears to owe its existence to the sea breaking through a low sandy \ 
beach and overflowing the lands within. Its communications with the sea are \ 
extremely narrow. This lake is in length nearly 40 miles from north to south, \ 
and six in the greatest breadth. The ordinary road from Nellore passes to the 
westward of it at the distance of 15 or 20 miles from the sea, but travellers 
lightly equipped sometimes prefer the shorter route along the shore, and are 
ferried across the openings. 

The Dutch established themselves here so early as 1609, when they built a 
square fort named Geldria, to which, after the loft of Negapatam, the chief 
government of their settlements on the Coromandel coast was transferred. 
Their principal imports were arrack, sugar, Japan copper, spices, and other 
articles brought from Batavia. In 1795, in consequence of the war with the 
Dutch, possession was taken of Pulicat, and it is now comprehended in the 
Northern Division of the Arcot collectorship. — ( Rennell , Fra Paolo, Wilks, §c.) 


THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ARCOT. 

A collectorship in file t&rnatic, under the Madras presidency, extending south- 
east to Portonovo, which it includes ; and during the late war it also compre- 
hended Pondicherry and the lands attached. Tp the north it is bounded by the 
Northern Division of Arcot; on the south by Tanjore and Trichinopoly ; on the 
east it has the Chingleput district and the sea ; and on the west, Salem and the 
Balaghaut Carnatic. In 1806, this district was in a< very miserable state, and it 
still contains immense tracts of waste lands, a considerable proportion of which 
is of an excellent quality, and susceptible of immediate cultivation. At the * 
above period the revenue was collected with difficulty ; the villages in part de- 
serted, and some wholly ; and the remaining inhabitants practising every artifice 
to avoid paying their rents and to conceal the public revenue ; the general 
appearaucc of the Country indicating extreme wretchedness. This condi don 



WAHOTWAiH.] THE CARNATIC. 437 

originated partly from the lands having been over assessed, and partly from the 
rapacious exactions of the native officers, who collected the revenue during the 
Nabob’s administration. In 1809, a triennial settlement of the land revenue 
was effected for the southern division of Arcot, Cuddalore and Pondicherry in- 
cluded. 

Land revenue. Farms & houses. Total. 


Southern division of Arcot 559,299 4,048 563,347 star pagodas. 

Cuddalore 16,061 1,732 17,793 

Pondicherry 7,131 3,884 11,015 


Total . . 592,156 

In 1809, the head inhabitants mostly combined to farm their own villages for 
three years, and in general their offers were accepted. The number of villages 
then rented for the above period of time was 3742, and the number not rented 
246, making a total of 3988 villages. In 1817, the total gross collection of the 
public revenue in this district, exclusive of Pondicherry, was as follows : 


Land revenue 528,811 star pagodas. 

Salt 48,334 

Land customs 43,613 

Exclusive sale of spirits (abkarry) .... 13,408 

Sundry small branches of revenue .... 9,542 

Stores 4,243 

Tobacco monopoly 

Total . . . 647,954 


The principal trading ports, now that Pondicherry is restored, are Cudalore 
and Portonovo. To the first the import trade from the eastward is still consi- 
derable, consisting of betel nut, pepper, and elephants' teeth. The exports are 
mostly piece goods to Prince of Wales island. Portonovo in like manner fur- 
nishes large supplies of piece goods for the eastern market, and in return 
imports betel nut, pepper, benzoin, camphor, sugar, and elephants’ teeth ; be- 
sides which, rice from Bengal, and tobacco from Ceylon, in small quantities, are 
received. — ( Ravehshaw, 5th Report, Hodgson, §c. §c.) 

Wandiwash. — A town in the Carnatic, 73 miles S. W. from Madras. Lat 
12° 30' N. long. 79° 37' E. In September, 1759, the British troops in an attack 
on this place were repulsed with great slaughter, but in November following it 
was taken by Colonel Coote with scarcely any loss. In January, 1760, a deci- 
sive battle was here fought between the French army undei M. Lally and the 
British commanded by Colonel Coote, in which the former were totally defeated 



438 THE CARNATIC. [oinjee. 

and never after made a stand. The brunt of this action fell wholly on the Euro* 
peans of the two armies, while the sepoys looked on, and after it was over, the 
sepoy commandants, , complimenting Colonel Coote on the victory, thanked him 
for the sight of such, a battle as they had never before witnessed. With the 
adjacent territory, Wandiwash is now comprehended in the southern division of 
the Madras collectorate. — ( Orme, fyc.) 

Cjuttapet. — A small town in the Carnatic, 78 miles S. W. from Madras. 
Lat. 12° 2G' N. long. 79° 26 E. During the Carnatic wars of the last century, 
this was a fortress of considerable consequence, even in that land of fortresses, 
and sustained several sieges. It then had round towers at the angles of the/ 
wall, more spacious than the generality of native fortifications on the coast oft 
Coromandel. The gateway on the northern side was the largest pile of this \ 
construction in the Lower Carnatic, being capable of containing on its terraces \ 
500 men drawn up under arms. Chittapet was finally taken by Colonel ^ 
Coote after the battle of Wandiwash, having made only a slight resistance. — 

( Orme , $c.) 

Tuixomallee ( Tirunamali ). — A town in the Carnatic, 52 miles W. N. W. 
from Pondicherry. Lat. 12° IT N. long. 79° 7 ' E. In the Carnatic wars of the 
last century this place sustained many sieges, but among the natives it was 
always more famed for sanctity than strength. A craggy mountain, about two 
miles in circumference, and rising in the middle to a great height, has, besides 
others, on the highest rock a small chapel, which is held in extreme veneration 
from the persuasion that whoever, except the officiating Brahmins, should pre- 
sume to enter it, would immediately be consumed by subterranean fire rising 
for the occasion. The pagoda is reckoned the most lofty in the Carnatic, being 
222 feet in height. 

At Trinomailee, in 1767, the combined armies of Hyder and the Nizam were 
defeated by the British under Colonel Smith, on which occasion the Nizam lost 
70 pieces of cannon, but Hyder managed to carry off his artillery. A short time 
afterwards the Nizam concluded a peace, by the conditions ot which he ceded 
to the East India Company the dominions of his late ally Hyder ; possession of 
which, however, could not be so easily taken. — ( Orme, fyc.) 

Gixjee ( Jhlnjl ). — A town and fortress in the Carnatic, 35 miles N. W. from 
Pondicherry. Lat. 12° 12' N. long. 79° 28' E. The fort stands on a stupenduous 
rock, and when properly defended is impregnable by the ordinary modes of 
attack. The natives of India, who esteem no fortifications very strong unless 
placed on high and difficult eminences, have always regarded Ginjee as the 
strongest town in the Carnatic. The mountain of Ginjee has always been 
deemed extremely unhealthy; and it is said the French, who never keot more 



Pondicherry.] THE CARNATIC. 439 

than 100 Europeans complete here, lost 1200 during the 10 years it was in their 
possession. 

This fortress was either built or improved on an old foundation of the Chola 
kings, by the son of Vijaya Runga Naik, the governor of Tanjore in 1442. It 
was successively strengthened by the Mahommedans of Bejapoor, who pos- 
sessed it from 1669 to 1677 ; and by the Maharattas, who held it from 1677, 
when it was taken by Sevajee during a sudden irruption into the Carnatic, to 
1698. At this period it was besieged and taken by Zulficar Khan, the imperial 
general, and Rajpoot governors being appointed, they affected independence and 
assumed the rank of Rajas. In 1715, it was held by Saadet Oollah Khan ; and 
in 1750 was taken by surprise during a. night attack by the French under M. 
Bussy. After the capture of Pondicherry it surrendered by capitulation to Cap- 
tain Steven Smith, in April, 17,61. The adjacent country is less populous and 
more jungly than Tanjore and the southern districts, which escaped the ravages 
of Tippoo and his father Hyder. — ( Wilks y Orme , fyc.) 

Permacoil (Parama Corel , the chief temple). — A small town in the Carnatic, 
17 miles N* by W. from Pondicherry. Lat. 12° 12' N. long. 79° 49' E. After 
the defeat sustained by the French at Wandiwash in 1760, when the army fell 
back on Pondicherry, Permacoil, which before had been neglected, became a 
place of importance. The rock on which the fort of Permacoil stood does not 
extend, even at its base, more than 500 yards ; its breadth to the north is about 
400 yards, and to the south not more than 200 yards. The height is various, 
being at the narrow end 300 feet perpendicular, and diminishing by slopes and 
declivities to 200 at the other. The rock falls everywhere so steep, that the area 
of this fortified surface above, is equal to half the base below ; and the adjacent 
rocks are not high enough to carry any detriment to its fortifications. It was 
taken in March, 1760, by Colonel Coote, who was wounded here, and during the 
attack the sepoys much distinguished themselves. — (Orme, Fra Paolo, fyc.) 

Allumparva. — A small town in the Carnatic, 25 miles N. by E. from Pon- 
dicherry. Lat. 12° 15' N. long. 80° 2' E. Within this place are several wells 
of good water, which is not to be found on all parts of the coast so near the sea. 
It was given to M. Dupleix, by Muzuffer Jung, in 1750, and taken from the 
French by Colonel Coote in 1760. — (Orme, §c.) 

Pondicherry (Puducheri). — A city on the sea coast of the Carnatic, once 
the most splendid European settlement in India, but greatly reduced by its sub- 
sequent misfortunes. Lat. 11° 57' N. long. 79° 54' E. 85 miles S. by W. from 
Madras. This place stands on a sandy plain not far from the sea shore, pro- 
ducing only palm trees, .millet, and a few herbs ; but the surrounding district 
produces cotton and a little rice. Upon the whole, however, it is better situ- 



440 THE CARNATIC. [pornuCHE&aY* 

ated than Madras, as during the S. W. monsoon, which is the season of naval 
warfare, it is to windward, an advantage the French experienced the benefit of 
during the hard contested wars of the last century Pondicherry, as a com- 
mercial town, has no natural advantages, and when it ceased to be the capital 
of the French possessions it soon fell to decay. On account of the long con- 
tinuance of the late war, the French inhabitants were reduced to the utmost 
distress, and being unable from poverty to repair their houses, the appearance 
of the town has suffered very much ; and for the destruction of its fortifications 
it is indebted to the policy of its own government. 

In 1758, the French ministry, confiding in the groat foice sent out under 
Lally, ordered him to destroy and dismantle all the British fortifications that 
might fall into his power, which he executed practically when he captured Fort 
St. David. A heavy retribution followed when Pondicherry was taken by Co- 
lonel Coote in 1761. On this occasion the fortifications were levelled, and the 
ditch filled up by the removal of the glacis into it, and from this destruction it 
has never completely* recovered. The French power in India was but of short 
duration, but remarkably brilliant while it lasted. It commenced under the 
government of M. Dupleix in 1749, and was extinguished by the surrender of 
Pondicherry in 1761 ; but the beginning of the colony has a much earlier date. 

The French first adventured to India in 1601, when two small ships were fitted 
out under the command of the Sieur Bardalieu, which were wrecked, next year 
among the Maldives isles, without reaching their destination. In 1604, Henry 
IV of France incorporated the first East India Company, with a charter for 15 
years. In 1672, the French under M. Martin, purchased from the King of Visi- 
apoor (Bejapoor) a village on the coast called Pondicherry, with a small tract 
adjacent, where he effected a settlement, which soon became populous, from the 
distracted state of the neighbouring countries. In 1693. the Dutch took Pon- 
dicherry, which they retained until the peace of Ryswick in 1697, when they 
were obliged to restore it with the fortifications greatly improved. 

On the 26th of August, 1748, Admiral Boscawen besieged Pondicherry with 
an army composed of 3720 Europeans, 300 topasses, and 2000 sepoys ; and on 
the 6th of October was compelled to raise the siege, having lost in the course 
of it 1065 Europeans. The French garrison Consisted of WOO Europeans and 
3000 sepoys. M. Dupleix acted as governor during the siege having been ap- 
pointed in 1742 and held the reins until 1754, when he MM removed, ML 
Lally landed at this settlement on the 28th of February, 175ft when an active 
war ensued between the French »ud British forces, which ended in the Mil 
ruin of the French and their adherents. Pondicherry anrreuderedto the British 
army under Colonel Coote on the 16th of January, 1781, after a long and strict 



THE CARNATIC. 


V01NMCHMRY.] 


441 


blockade. The total number of Europe n military taken in the town, including 
artificer attached to the troops, was 2072 ; the civil inhabitants were 381 ; the 
artillery At for service 500 pieces of cannon, and 100 mortars and howitzers. 
The ammunition, fire arms, weapons, and military stores, were in equal 
abundance. 

At the peace of 1763, this fortress was restored to the French East India 
Company, with the fortifications in a very dilapidated condition, but by great 
exertions and the skill of the French engineers, they were again considerably 
strengthened. In October, 1778, it surrendered to the army under Sir Hector 
Monro, after an obstinate defence highly honourable to the governor, M. de 
Bellecombe. The garrison consisted of 3000 men, of whom 900 were Europeans ; 
the besieging army amounted to 10,500 men, of whom 1500 were Europeans. 
At the peace of 1783, it was again transferred to the French, but on the break- 
ing out of hostilities surrendered to the British army on the 23d of August,. 
1793. On this occasion the garrison consisted of 900 soldiers and 15,000 armed 
inhabitants. 

During the peace or truce of Amiens, Pondicherry was again restored to its 
former proprietors, at which period (1802) the inhabitants were estimated at 
25,000, the revenue 40,000 pagodas per annum, and the extent of sea coast five 
miles. On this event Buonaparte seems to have formed expectations of raising 
it to its ancient pre-eminence and splendour, otherwise he would not have sent 
out an establishment of such magnitude as arrived under General de Caen, 
consisting of seven generals, a proportionate number of inferior officers, and 
1400 regulars, including a body guard of 80 horse ; in addition to which they 
brought £100,000 in specie — the whole evidently intended for a much wider 
field pf action than Pondicherry afforded, Whatever were his plans, they were 
frustrated by the short duration of the peace, as Pondicherry was again occupied 
by a British garrison in 1803 ; but the French admiral Linois, having the earliest 
intelligence, escaped with his ships. 

The system of policy adopted by the French from the beginning violated the 
customs and prejudices of the natives. M. Dupleix destroyed their temples ; 
M. Lally forced them to work in the trenches, and to do other military duty 
repugnant to their castes ; and the old French government had prohibited the 
residence of a single family which was not Christian within its boundaries. To 
intolerant and interfering spirit in a great degree must be attributed the 
decline of the French power, and to a contrary system the elevation of the 
Brittih on its mins. In their possession it remained daring the long and eventful 
way which terminated with the second pescoof Paris on the 20th of November, 
1*15, in consequence of which in ltf 7,wMliQ due. formalities* for the 



442 THE CARNATIC. [trivicary. 

fourth time restored to its old owners. While under the British government it 
was attached to the district of South Arcot, but its internal management was 
conducted by a special commissioner. The total gross collection of the public 
revenue in the year ending with the 11th July, 1817, was as follows : 


Land revenue 1,120 star pagodas. 

Salt ............ 5,038 

Land customs 4,186 

Exclusive sale of spirits (abkarry) . . 2,441 

Sundry small branches of revenue . . . 210 

Stamps 

Tobacco monopoly 


Total 12,988 

Travelling distance from Madras 100 miles; from Seringapatam 260; from 
Hyderabad 452 ; from Delhi 1,400; from Calcutta 1,130; from Nagpoor 773; 
from Poona 707 miles . — (Lord Valent ia, Orme , Macpherson , Rennell, fyc.) 

Ariancoopan. — A small town on the sea coast of the Carnatic province, 
three miles south from Pondicherry. Lat. 11° 54' N. long. 79° 52' E. In 1748 
this was a fortified town, and taken with great difficulty by Admiral Boscawen, 
prior to his unsuccessful siege of Pondicherry. 

Trivicary (Trivikera). — A village in the Carnatic, situated on the north side 
of the Ariancoopan or Villenore river, 16 miles N. W. from Pondicherry. Lat* 
12° 3' N. long. 79° 43' E. This place consists at present of a few s&ttered 
huts ; but from the appearance of the pagoda, the interior of which is built .of 
stones, the size of the tower over the gateway, which is eight stories, and a large 
stone tank covering several acres of ground, we may conclude that, in some 
former period, Trivicary was a place of great extent and importance. The 
principal streets can still be traced, and appear to have been large ; but the 
Sanscrit inscription on the walls is now scarcely legible. The pagoda was much 
injured, and the statues mutilated, by Hyder’s army, as it retreated from Porto. 
novo in 1781. 

Trivicary is now principally remarkable for the petrifactions that are seen in 
its vicinity. Many petrified trees of large dimensions lie scattered about, some 
as hard as flint, and others so soft as to be reduced to powder by the slightest 
pressure. One of the petrified trees is described as being 60 feet long, and 
from two to eight feet in diameter. The petrified root of this tree is in most 
plaCek as hard as flint, strikes fire with steel, and takes a much finer polish than 
any part of the stem. It also presents a more variegated appearance in its veins 
and colours, resembling agate when polished; and the red, when well chosen, 



foot ST. oavid.] THE CARNATIC. 443 

can scarcely be discriminated from cornelians. It is manufactured into beads, 
necklaces, bracelets, and other ornaments. The present growth of trees in the 
neighbourhood are principally of the tamarind species, from which circumstance 
it may be inferred, that the petrifactions have the same origin. Tradition assigns 
a great antiquity to these petrifactions. — ( Warren , 8$c.) 

Trividy. — A town in the Carnatic, 19 miles S. W. from Pondicherry. Lat. 
11° 46' N. long. 79° 40' E. During the Carnatic wars of the last century, the 
pagoda at this place served as a citadel to a large pettah, by which name the 
people in the south of India call every town contiguous to a fortress. 

Thxagur* — A town in the Carnatic, 52 miles W. S. W. from Pondicherry. 
Lat. 11* 42' N. long. 79° 8' E. During the Carnatic wars of the last century, 
this was a place of considerable strength, and sustained several sieges. It then 
consisted of two fortifications on a high mountain, one above, but communicating, 
with the other ; and a pettah on a plain to the eastward with a mud wall, and 
surrounded at a small distance by an impenetrable bound hedge. After the 
capture of Pondicherry in 1761, this important fortress surrendered to a de- 
tachment under Major Preston, having been blockaded and bombarded 65 days. 1 
( Orme , §c.) 

Tricaloor. — A town in the Carnatic, situated on the south side of the Panaur 
river, 43 miles W. from Pondicherry. Lat. 11° 55' N. long. 79° 15' E. 

Fort St. David. — A town on the sea coast of the Carnatic, 16 miles south 
from Pondicherry, and 100 S. S. W. from Madras. Lat. 11° 45' N. long. 79° 50' 
E. Three considerable rivers coming from the westward gain the sea in the 
space of four miles within the boundaries of Fort St. David. The bed of the 
Panaur lies about 1800 yards to the north of the river of Tripapolore, and the 
two communicate by a canal, which runs parallel to, and about 1000 yards 
distant from, the margin of the sea. Fort St. David stands in the angle where 
.the canal joins the river of Tripapolore, which passes close to the site of the 
fort, and then sends to the south an arm that soon joins* the river of Bandapollam, 
when both united in one channel continue along the eastern side of the Cuda- 
lore, separated from the sea by a mound of sand. 

| The factory here was first established in 1691, when the Court of Directors 
ordered a purchase to be made from the Ram Raja of a new settlement named 
Tegojetpatam, which was carried into execution, and named Fort St. David, the 
territory thus acquired being larger than that attached to Madras. In 1693, 
if was* discovered that a plot had been arranged by Dr. Blackwell, the garrison 
surgeon; to deliver up Fort St. David to Zulficar Khan, the general of Aurengzebe, 
then besieging the Ram Raja in Ginjee, in recompense for which he was pro- 
mised a large sum of money, and to be made governor of Porto Novo. ' He was 

312 * ‘ : 



444 THE CARNATIC. [codalore. 

seized and carried to Madras, where he made fully confession of his treachery, 
which comprehended also the subsequent seizure of all the English settlements 
on the Coromandel coast. In 1702, the ground rent of Fort St. David -was 
farmed'for 2805 pagodas, and the tobacco and betel nut for 2756 pagodas. After 
the capture of Madras, in 1746, by the French under M. La Bourdonnais, the 
English factory retired hither, and were again besieged but without success. 
From this period it continued the head of the English settlements on the Coro- 
mandel coast until 1758, when it was taken by M. Lally, after a short siege. 
The French then completely demolished the fortifications which were never { 
rebuilt, and for which dilapidation they afterwards suffered severe retribution\ 
when Pondicherry was taken in 1761.— (Orme, Bruce, Wilke, 8$c.) 

Panaub River. — This river Jb as its source among the Nundydroog bills, from 
whence it flows in a south-easterly direction until it falls into the sea at Cuda- 
lore, after a course of about 250 mileB, including the windings. 

Cudalobe (Cadalur ). — A town on the sea coast of the Carnatic, close to 
Fort St. David, and 16 miles. south from Pondicherry. Lat. 11° 44' N. long. 
79° 50' E. The situation of this town is naturally strong, and it would origi- 
nally have been a more commodious place for the British chief settlement than 
Madras, being to windward of both Madras and Pondicherry, and in the vicinity 
of Tanjore. Prior to 1690, the East India Company had a factory established 
here, which, on account of the increasing trade of Cudalore, was in 1702 wholly 
rebuilt and fortified. The town was taken possession of by Colonel Coote’s 
army in 1760, and continued subject to the Nabob of Arcot until the destruction 
of Colonel Braithwaite's detachment by Tippoo, when it was obliged to surrender 
by capitulation to the combined armies of the French and Hyder on the 8th of 
April, 1782. The French greatly strengthened the works, and supplied a pow- 
erful garrison under the Marquis de Bussy. 

In June, 1783, Cudalore was besieged by the British army commanded by 
General Stuart, and on the 7th the outworks were stormed after a desperate 
resistance, in which the assailants lost 942 killed and wounded, of whom 500 
were Europeans; the greatest loss of this description, particularly of officers, 
that had yet been sustained in any action fought in India. On the 25th of 
June, the garrison assaulted the trenches of the besiegers, but were repulsed 
with the loss of 600 killed, wounded, and prisoners. , In the conflict twe bat- 
talions of sepoys fought some of the oldest and best French troops with ti^e 
bayonet, and foiled them at that fovourite European weapon. Two days after 
this sally, when so many fives were lost on both sides, tee Medusa frigate ar- 
rived at Cudalore, under a flag of truce from Madras, bringing information from 
Lord Macartney of the conclusion of peace between the two nations, a mutual 



VXKDACHELUH.] THE CARNATIC. 445 

cassation of hostilities and restoration of orisoners, in consequence, immediately 
took place. The country in the neighbourhood of Cudalore, buffered much 
during the war of 1780 to 1784, and became nearly desolate, the villages having 
been had in ruins, and the inhabitants either destroyed or compelled to migrate. • 
A happy change, however, has since taken plaiee, and the improvement in every 
respect has been great and rapid since it was attached to the southern division 
of rite Arcot nollectorate. — ( Rennell, 5th Report, Bruce, S$c.) 

Palamcotta. — A town in the Carnatic, 39 miles S. S. W. from Pondicherry. 
Lat. 1 1 8 27' N. long. 79“ 37' E. 

Veedachelum. — A town in the Carnatic province, 40 miles S. S. W. from 
Pondicherry. Lat. 11° 31' N. long. 79° 28' E. In 1813, in consequence of the 
district court of South Arcot being established here, and the great want of 
accommodation for the public servants and their adherents, an advance of 2000 
pagodas was authorized, for the construction of new houses and the improvement 
of the town, to which subsequently 2000 more were added, to be advanced to 
such persons as might require them, and could furnish security for their repay- 
ment by instalments within a moderate period of time. Verdachelum was then 
small, thinly inhabited, and selected originally for head quarters, merely on 
account of its central position ; but very soon in consequence of some arrange* 
ments by which the boundaries of Trichinopoly and South Arcot were altered,- 
the situation of the court at Verdachellum became extremely inconvenient, being 
placed within six miles of one boundary, and distant 120 miles from its northern 
limit. 

Under these circumstances many places became more central and eligible ; 
and it appears surprising that the choice of the stations in the Carnatic for the 
establishment of district, courts should so seldom have fallen on towns, where 
there already existed structures of size and strength sufficient for the purposes of 
court houses and jails ; and that in substituting for the civil and criminal judicature 
of the native governments, our own system of judicial administration, we should 
have had to incur the same expenditure as if we had entered a country totally un- 
civilized. Had proper stations been or%inally selected, the subsisting and in- 
creasing expenditure of the judicial department,, for the erection and repairs of 
court houses, jails, &c. would have been moderated ; but a preliminary and 
essential error in local position, entails a total loss of all that, has been previously 
* , expended. Neither does it appear that the discovery of delects, by subsequent 
experience, is sufficiently applied to the correction and improvement of future 
constructions, and after so many experiments, the best model of a- district jail 
leaps as little decided on as at the beginning. Owing to the geographical 
changes, it is highly probable the court of justice will experience, ere long. 



446 THE CARNATIC. [chingleput. 

another removal, on which event, sifter the sacrifice of all the sums expended on 
its public’ and private improvement, Verdachelum .will revert to its original 
insignificance. — ( Public MS. Documents , J. H. Peek , §c. 8$c.) 

• Porjonovo; — A populous and flourishing town on the sea coast of the Car- 
natic, 32 miles south from Pondicherry. * Lat. 11° 30' N. long. 79° 50' E. This 
place is also named Mahmood Bunder and Feringgipet, and was the scene of a 
battle in 1782, between Sir Eyre Coote and Hyder, in which the latter was 
defeated. ’ 

Chillambaram Pagodas. — These pagodas are situated on the sea coast of/ 
the Carnatic, three miles south of Portonovo, and 36 miles south from Pon-1 
dicherry. Lat. 11° 28' N. long. 79° 47' E. The entry to the Chillambaram pa-\ 
goda, held in great veneration on account of its antiquity, is by a stately gate, \ 
under a pyramid 122 feet high, built with large stones above 40 feet long, and ' 
more than five feet square, and all covered with plates of copper, adorned with a 
variety of figures neatly executed. The whole structure extends 1332 feet in 
one direction, and 936 in another. About 1785, this gateway was repaired by a 
devout widow at the expense of 50,000 pagodas. The whole of the architecture 
has a more ancient appearance than that of Tanjore or Ramisseram. — ( Sonnerat , 
Lord Vakntia, fyc.) 

THE DISTRICT OF CHINGLEPUT (or the Jaghire). 

The ancient acquisitions of the East India Company in the Carnatic, formerly 
denominated the Jaghire, now forms the collectorship of Chingleput. To the 
north it is bounded by the Nellore district; on the south by the southern divi- 
sion of Arcot ; to the east it has the Bay of Bengal ; and on the west the 
northern and southern divisions of Arcot. The space originally termed the 
Jaghire extends northward to the Pulicat lake, southwards to Allumparva, arid 
westward to Conjeveram, being about 108 miles along shore, and 47 inland in 
the widest part, containing altogether 2440 square miles. 

In this district the land between the Saymbrumbacum tank, and that of Sri, 
Permaturu, is nowhere so steep as to prevent the use of the plough, but in most 
places the soil is very indifferent. The rocks, or large detached masses of 
granite, project in many parts of the fields, and almost everywhere the country 
is overrun with low prickly bushes. In this particular part of the district* 
except in a few fields, which in the rainy season are sown with raggy and 
other dry grains, there is no cultivation. It appears too dry for any useful 
purpose, except furnishing a scanty pasture. The palmira thrives on it without 
trouble, and is both cheap and abundant. The tari or fermented juice, end the 
jftggory or inspissated juice of the tree (the borassus fiabelliformis), ate in this 



chingleput.] THE CARNATIC. 447 

quarter more esteemed than those of the wild date, which is contrary to the 
opinion of the Bengalese. Could it be converted to a palatable spirituous 
liquor or sugar, the barren plains of the Carnatic might be rendered productive. 
At Sri Perm&turu there is a tank to water the lands of one village amounting to 
2600 acres. Bamboos in the district are very scarce, and sell for three times 
their cost in Calcutta, but recently the natives have been encouraged to plant 
them round their houses. 

The territory named the Jaghire was obtained in 1750 and 1763 from the Nabob 
of Arcot, in return for services rendered to him and his father by the Company, 
and was rented to the Nabob on renewed leases until 1780, when the presidency 
of Fort St. George assumed the management. This district was twice invaded 
byHyderAli, in 1768 and in 1780, when he ravaged it with fire and sword. 
On the termination of the latter war, in 1784, hardly any other signs were left 
in many parts of the country of its having been inhabited by human beings, than 
the bones of the bodies that had been massacred, or the naked walls of the 
houses, choultries, and temples, that had been burned. To the havock of war 
succeeded a destructive famine, and the emigration from these successive ca- 
lamities nearly depopulated the country. In 1790, the Jaghire was divided into 
two collectorships, but in 1794 was united under the management of Mr. Place, 
who continued until 1798. Annual village settlements of the revenue continued 
to be made until 1802, when the permanent assessment took place, the lands 
having previously been divided into 61 estates, bearing an assessment of from 
2000 to 5000 pagodas, and sold to individuals. Although the land be much in- 
ferior in fertility, the condition of the natives throughout the Jaghire appears 
fully equal in comfort to that of their fellow subjects in Bengal. Exclusive of 
Madras, the principal towns are Chingleput and Conjeveram. In 1817, the 
total gross collection of the public revenue in this district was as follows : — 


Land revenue 304,016 star pagodas. 

Salt 77,310 

Land customs 16,084 

Exclusive sale of spirits (abkarry) . 11,273 

Sundry small branches of revenue . 1,740 

Stamps 2,608 

Tobacco monopoly 


Total 413,034 

( F. Buchanan , 5th Report , Rennell, fyc.) 
Chinolxput (Singhalapctta J.— The capital of the preceding district Lat 12° 
48* N, long. WfJL 38 miles S. S. W. from Madras. In the year 1761, the 



THE CARNATIC. 


448 


[COHJXVXBAK. 


French took possession of Chingleput, but it was taken from them in 1762, by 
Captain Clive, after a short siege. The place is now much reduced, but it is stiQ 
in a respectable state of defence, with a rampart and ditch, two miles in circum- 
ference. The latter is wide and deep, and is constantly filled with water, which 
during the rainy season expands to a spacious lake. — (Orme, fyc. 8$c.) 

Salivaucum.— A town in the Chingleput district, 44 miles S. W. from Ma- 
dras. Lat. 12° 37' N. long. 79° 64' E. 

Tripassoor. — A town in the Carpatic, 34 miles W. from Madras. Lat. 13* 
7'N. long. 79° 62' E. 

Ootrivaioor ( Uttaravelur ). — A town in the Carnatic, 62 miles 8. E. from 
Madras. Lat. 12° 35' N. long. 79° 46' E. 

Conjeveram (CanchipurA, the golden city ). — A considerable town in the 
Chingleput district, 48 miles S. W. from Madras. Lat. 12° 49' N. long. 79° 41' 
E. About Conjeveram the soil is more clayey than towards the sea coast, owing 
to the decomposition of the feltspar, which abounds in the granite of this re- 
gion. This place stands in a valley, and is still of great extent, being from five 
to six miles in length, and tolerably populous. The streets are mostly broad, 
and planted with coco-nut and bastard cedar trees. Round the whole town is a 
bound hedge, chiefly of the agave Americana, and formerly useful for keeping off 
the bands of irregular cavalry that follow Indian armies. The small river We- 
gawutty which winds along the western skirts of the town contributes much to 
the fertility of the valley. Its bed is very sandy, but water is everywhere 
found by digging a few feet under ground ; and within the limits of the valley, 
there are, besides, many large tanks constructed, the whole having a prosperous 
appearance. The streets of Conjeveram are wide, and cross each other at right 
angles, with a row of coco-nut trees on each side. The weavers are a numerous 
class of inhabitants, and the manufactures principally red handkerchiefs, turbans, 
and cloths adapted for the dresses of the natives. 

The main entrance to the great pagoda is lofty, and resembles in its shape 
and ornaments that of Tanjore. On the left, after passing through it, is a large 
edifice like a choultry, which the Brahmins assert contains 1000 pillars. Many 
of them are handsomely carved with figures of Hindoo deities, and several of 
the groups are composed with considerable skill. The sides of the steps lead- 
ing up to it are formed by two well served elephants drawing a car. The se- 
cond court, or inner square, being considered of great sanctity, strangers are not 
admitted into it. This temple is dedicated to Siva or Mahadeva. The view 
from the top of the great gateway is. uncommonly fine, consisting of extensive 
woods, intersected by a huge she * of water? with numerous pagodas rising 



POONAMA LLEE.] THE CARNATIC. 449 

among the trees, and a magnificent range of mountains at a distance . — ( Lord 
Valentia, Salt , Heyne, fyc.) 

Enoue '( Enur ). — A village in the Carnatic, eight miles north from Madras. 
Lat. 13° 13' N. long. 80° 23' E. This place stands on the banks of a small salt water 
lake which contains abundance of fine fish and excellent oysters. A society 
in Madras have built here by subscription a house on the edge of the lake, 
where there is a weekly meeting to eat fish, play cards, and sail on the lake in 
pleasure boats, a diversion which cannot be enjoyed anywhere near Madras on 
account of the surf. The town stands on a flat sandy bank, and contains about 
100 huts of the natives, and two European houses, besides the subscription 
houses. — ( M. Graham , §c.) 

Periapollam. —A town in the Carnatic, 24 miles N. N. W. from Madras. 
Lat. 13° 18' N. long. 80 ° 4' E. 

St. Thome. — A small town on the sea coast of the Carnatic, named by the 
natives Mailapuram, or the city of peacocks. Lat. 13° 2' N. long. 80° 20' E. 
three miles south from Madras. This place is situated close to the sea, which 
here forms a kind of bay or small haven. It stands in a fine plain abounding 
with coco nut trees, which retain their verdure throughout the year. The inha- 
bitants consist of Hindoos, Mahommedans, and Roman Catholic Christians ; the 
latter being a bastard race, a mixture of the Portugueze and natives, and of a 
very dark complexion. 

When the Portugueze commander, Gama, took the town of Maliapoor (St. 
Thoml), he found a great many inhabitants who professed the Christian religion, 
of the Nestorian or Chaldean persuasion. He changed the name of the place to 
St. Thom£, in honour of the apostle, which it still retains among Europeans, In , 
, July, 1672, a French fleet from Trincomalee under the command of M. de la 
Haye, unexpectedly landed 300 men and some guns, and took St. Thom6 by 
storm. They afterwards successfully resisted the numerous forces which the 
natives brought against them ; but in 1G74, were compelled to surrender it to 
the Dutch, who gave it up to the King of Galconda. In 1749 this town was 
taken possession of by Admiral Boscawen, as he found the Roman Catholic in- 
habitants and priests conveyed intelligence to the French in Pondicherry. For 
many years the town belonged to the Nabobs of Arcot; but after the death of 
Anwar ud Been, seemed to belong to nobody, for there ware no officers, either 
civil or military, acting with authority in the place. During the Carnatic wars 
it was taken possession of by the Madras government, and has ever since 
remained subject to that presidency. — ( Orme 9 Fra Paolo , Bruce , §c.) 

Poonamallee. — A town in the Carnatic, 15 miles W, S. W. from Madras. 
Lat. 13* 2' N. long. 80° 8' E. 

y#i» *t. 8 n 



450 THE CARNATIC. [mahabauyubam. 

Sei Permaturu. — A small town in the Carnatic, QA miles 8. W. from Madras* 
Lat. 12° 57' N- long. 80° 2' E. This town is celebrated as' the birth place of 
Rama Anuja Acharya, the great Brahmin saint and reformer, and the founder of 
a sect. His birth is supposed to have happened in A. D. 1016. Before the ap- 
pearance of Rama Anuja, the most prevalent sects in this neighbourhood were 
the followers of Buddha and the Charvaca (Shrawuks) or Jains, both of which 
are now extinct in this section of Hindostan. 

Saymbrumbacum (Swayambrahma). — A small town in the Carnatic, 17 miles 
west from Madras. Lat. 13° 5'.N. long. 80° 4' E. At this place there is a Re- 
markably large tank, eight miles in length by three in breadth, which has nbt 
been formed by excavation like those in Bengal, but by shutting up with an ar- 
tificial bank an opening between two natural ridges of ground. In the dry seal 
son the water is let out in small portions for irrigation, and the quantity is saia 
to be sufficient to supply the lands of 32 villages (should the rains fail) in which 
6000 persons are employed in agricultural pursuits. 

Covelong (Covil, a temple ). — A town on the sea coast of the Carnatic, 22 
miles S. from Madras. Lat. 12° 46' N. long. 80° 18' E. This fort was called 
by the natives Saadet Bunder, and was built by Anwar ud Deen, within mus- 
ket shot of the sea, near the ruins of another belonging to the Imperial East In- 
dia Company of Ostend, whose principal factory was at Covelong. In 1760, 
the French got possession of it by a stratagem. In 1752, it surrendered to 
Captain Clive, on condition that the commandant should be allowed to carry 
away his own effects, which proved to be a great number of turkies and a 
quantity of snuff, commodities in which he dealt. After the capture of Chingle- 
put, the fortifications of Covelong were blown up. The sea shore here affords 
many beautiful shells. — ( Orme , Fra Paolo , 8$c.) 

Maii abalipttram (or The Seven Pagodas ). — A small town on the sea coast of 
the Carnatic, 35 miles south from Madras. Lat. 12° 36' N. long. 80° 16' E. In 
the vicinity of this place are the celebrated ruins of ancient Hindoo temples de- 
cated to Vishnu, generally called the Seven Pagodas, but it is not known for 
what reason, as no such number exists here. The name means the city of the 
great Bali, a character very famous in Hindoo romance. The eye is first at- 
tracted by a high rock or rather hill of stone, covered with Hindoo sculptures 
and works of imagery so thickly scattered as to convey the idea of a petrified 
town. Facing the sea there is a pagoda of one single stone, about 16 or 18 
feet high, which seems to have been cut on the spot out of a detached rock. 
On the outside surface of the rock are basso relievo sculptures, representing the 
most remarkable persons whose actions are celebrated in the Mahabbarat. 
Another part of the rock is hollowed out into a spacious room, apparently for 
the purposes of a choultry. 



warrior.] THE CARNATIC. 451 

On ascending the hill, there is a temple cut out of the solid rock, with some 
figures of idols in alto reiievo upon the walls very well finished. At another part 
of the hill there is a gigantic figure of Vishnu asleep on a bed, with a large 
snake wound round in many coils as a pillow, which figures are all of one piece, 
hewn out of the rock, A mile and a half to the southward of the hill are two 
pagodas, about 30 feet long by 20 wide, and the same in height, cut out of the 
solid rock, and each consisting of one single stone. Near to these is the figure of 
an elephant as large as life, and of a lion much larger than the natural size, but 
otherwise a just representation of a real lion, which is, however, an animal un- 
known in this neighbourhood, or in the south of India. The whole of these 
sculptures appear to have been rent by some convulsion of nature before they 
were finished. 

The great rock above described is about 100 yards from the sea, but on the 
rocks washed by the sea is a pagoda of stone, containing the lingam, and dedi- 
cated to Siva. The surf here breaks far out, and (as the Brahmins assert) 
over the ruins of the city of Mahabalipuram, which was once large and magni- 
ficent ; and there is reason to believe, from the traditional records of the natives, 
that the sea, on this part of the Coromandel coast, has been encroaching on the 
land. All the most ancient buildings and monuments at Mahabalipuram are con- 
secrated to Vishnu, whose .worship appears to have predominated on the coast, 
while on the opposite side in the neighbourhood of Bombay, that of Siva was 
the most prevalent. — ( Chambers, Goldingham , M. Graham , Lord Valentia, fyc. fyc.) 

Sadras.— A town on the sea coast of the Carnatic, 42 miles S. W. from Ma- 
dras. Lat. 12° 31' N. long. 80° 14' E. This town has long been in a state of 
decay. There was formerly a small fort surrounded by a brick wall, 15 feet 
high, which was siezed on by M. Lally during the siege of Madras, in violation 
of the' Dutch neutrality. In the time of the Dutch, who frequented it so long 
ago as 1647, it was a populous place, where ginghams of a superior fabric were 
manufactured. In 1795, in consequence of the war with the Dutch, possession 
was taken of Sadras, which was annexed to the district of Chingleput, but in 
March, 1818, it was regularly delivered over to M. Van Braam, the commissioner 
deputed to receive charge of it by the King of the Netherlands. 

Volconda. — A town in Carnatic, 70 miles S. W. from Pondicherry. Lat. 1 1° 
18' N. long. 79° 7' E. During the Carnatic wars of the last century, this was 
a strong post its principal defence being a rock 200 feet high, and about a mile 
in circumference at the bottom. 

Warrior. — A town in the Carnatic, 56 miles S. S. W. from Pondicherry. 
Lat 11* ltf N. long, 79° 23' E. 


3x2 



452 


THE CARNATIC. 


[takjoee. 


THE DISTRICT OP TANJORE. 

This district extends alongs the sea coast of the Southern Carnatic, and prin- 
cipally between the 10th and 11th degrees of north latitude. To the north it 
has 'the district of Chinglepiit, on the south that of Madura, to the east it has 
the Bay of Bengal, and on the west Trichinopoly and Madura. This little 
principality is entitled to the second rank among all the provinces of Hindostan 
for agricultural and valued rent, the first being due to the district of Burdwan 
in Bengal. For the purposes of irrigation, prodigious mounds have been raised 
at Coilacly, to prevent the waters of the Cavery from rejoining those of the cL 
leroon, after they have separated near Trichinopoly. From the southern branch 
of the river canals are conducted in all directions, which, by means of embankV 
rnents. and reservoirs, are diverted into every field, and fertilize a tract of country 
from Devicotta to Point Calymere, which would otherwise remain barren sand.^ 
The inhabitants of Tanjore are uncommonly industrious and expert in husban- 
dry, there is consquently but a very small proportion of waste land compared 
with what is seen in some of the neighbouring territories. The dry and wet 
cultivation are nearly equal, being about 50 per cent. each. 

From a Report on the affairs of Tanjore in 1807, it appears the province then 
contained 5873 townships. Of this number there are 1807 townships in which 
one individual holds the whole undivided lands; 2202 of which the property is 
held by several persons, having their distinct and separate estates ; and 1774, 
the landed property in which is held in common by all the Meerasdars, or pro- 
prietors of the village, who contribute labour and receive a share of the crop in 
the proportion of their respective properties. The same report states that the 
number of Meerasdars who are Brahmins, is . . . 17,149 

Of Sudras, including native Christians . . . 42,442 

Of Mahommedans . 1,457 

Total 62,048 

The Mahommedans here mentioned, are all Lubbies, descended from individuals 
of that faith, who emigrated from Arabia in the early part of the eighth century, 
during the tyrannical sway of Hijaj ben Yusef. 

The principal articles exported from the sea marts of this district, to Madras, 
are indigo, coco nuts, rice, grain, paddy, lamp-oil, with some piece goods. The 
remaining articles, from their description, appear to have been first received 
from the eastward, Ceylon, or the Malabar coast, and afterwards sent to Ma- 
dras. These consist of betel nut, tin, pepper, tortoise-shell, Benjamin attack. 



taxjore.] THE CARNATIC. 453 

Trincomalee wood and hing. The imports to this province from Madras, are 
small in quantity and value, and are composed chiefly of articles for the Euro- 
pean troops and residents, with some iron hoops, camphor, raw silk, silk piece 
goods, anchors, iron of various sorts, gunnies, planks, and long pepper roots. 
The seaports of most commerce are Tranquebar, Nagore, Negapatam, Carical, 
and Devicotta. 

The Mahommedans never having actually occupied this territory, or effected 
any permanent establishment in it, the Hindoo religion has been preserved in 
considerable splendour, and their ancient places of worship, with their vast en- 
dowments, remain untouched. In almost every village there is a pagoda with 
a lofty gateway of massive but not inelegant architecture, where a great many 
Brahmins are maintained, either by the revenues formerly attached to them, or 
by an allowance from government. On all the great roads leading to these 
sacred places are choultries, built for the accommodation of pilgrims. The 
Brahmins are here the chief holders of land, and perform almost every office of 
husbandry, except holding the plough. They are all extremely loyal on ac- 
count of the protection tney receive', and also for an allowance granted by the 
British government of 45,000 pagodas annually, which is distributed for the 
support of the poorer temples. 

In the remote times of Hindoo antiquity, Tanjore was distinguished geogra- 
phically by the name of Chola Desa, from whence originated by several corrup- 
tions, the word Coromandel, and in native manuscripts its sovereign is still 
designated the Cholia Raja. The present race are descended from Eccojee, a 
Maharatta chief, (the brother of Sevajee,) who, in A. D. 1675, conquered the 
city and province, which have been retained by the same dynasty ever since; 
the Maharatta being the proper language of the Tanjore court. The expedition 
of the British troops into Tanjore in 1749, was the first warfare in this quarter 
where they were engaged against the forces of a native prince, and it proved 
unsuccessful as to its main object, the restoration of a deposed Raja of Tanjore. 
who had applied for assistance to the Governor of Fort St. David. In 1799, a 
commutation of subsidy was effected, and the territory of Tanjore transferred 
to the British jurisdiction. On this event the Raja reserved to himself several 
palaces, the Tranquebar tribute of 2000 chuckrums, a clear allowance of one 
lack of rupees annually, and one-fifth of the surplus revenues, after payment of 
the civil and military disbursements, which realizes to him twice as much more. 
As a particular favour he was allowed to retain the two forts of Tanjore, which 
he keeps in excellent repair, and garrisons with 1500 men. In 1817, the total 
gross collection of the public revenue in the district was as follows. 



454 THE CARNATIC, [tanjoee. 

Land revenue 936,023 star pagodas. 

Salt 6,043 

Land customs 66,096 

Exclusive sale of spirits (abkarry) . . 8,548 

Sundry small branches of revenue . . 6,083 

Stamps 9,346 

Tobacco monopoly 


Total 1,086,641 

Serfajee, the present Raja, is the adopted son of Tuljajee, who died in A. D. 
1786. He was carefully educated under a most respectable Danish Missionary, 
Mr. Schwarts, and among Christians, yet he continues a stanch adherent tq 
the Brrfiminical doctrines and superstitions. In other respects he is a man 
liberal sentiments, and particularly indulgent to the Danish Missionaries who 
live in his country, and whose conduct does honour to the Christian name. 
While yet an independent prince, he protected their schools, which were 
fostered by his old tutor, Mr. Schwarts, and extended his kindness to the Ro- 
man Catholics also, who, in 1785, were estimated at 10,000 persons. From the 
general toleration, even the Brahmins in this province appear to have relaxed a 
little, as they have procured a printing press, which they dedicate to the glory 
of their gods. 

The inevitable effect of the administration of the British functionaries, through- 
out all departments of the province, has been the progressive reduction and ulti- 
mate annihilation of the Raja’s influence, which result might possibly have escaped 
the notice of an ordinary native prince ; but the present Raja, Serfajee, having 
been educated under an European of talents, and having acquired much general 
knowledge, soon became sensible of the dependance of his situation on the good 
will of his powerful allies, and on that account is particularly alive to any want 
of attention proceeding from so important a quarter. He understands the Eng- 
lish language perfectly well, and has a library of English books in which he passes 
great part of the day, and ne reads the English newspapers. Through informa- 
tion derived from these sources he early discovered, that the English title of 
Excellency, to which his father had been reduced, was not an hereditary or per- 
manent title in England, being conferred by his Majesty on certain public 
officers, and withdrawn on the revocation or resignation of their particular com- 
missions. The inferiority of this title was aggravated in the Raja’s imagination, 
when he compared his situation with that of the native princes connected with, 
or dependant on the British government. Among them he perceived nabobs, 
officers of the empire, whose dignities had become hereditary in their families 



[takjore. THE CARNATIC. 4 55 

in the last generation only, by the powerful protection of their European allies, 
addressed by them with the title of highness, while, although his own descent 
was much more ancient and illustrious, he received the degrading title of ex- 
cellency. 

The Peshwa he considered merely as an officer of the Maharatta empire, 
founded by his great collateral ancestor Sevajee. The ancestors of the Nag- 
poor Raja, of the Guicowar, Sindia, and Holcar, were merely functionaries of 
the same empire, raised by successful rebellion to the rank of princes ; neither 
could the Travancore Raja pretend to equal dignity of descent, far less any com- 
parison in length of attachment to the British government, yet they all received 
a superior European title, although wholly undeserving of it. Under these im- 
pressions the Raja, in 1811, represented to the British government, through the 
resident. Captain Blackburn, the unmerited, degredation he sustained when com- 
pared with other native princes, whose claims were in every respect inferior to 
his just pretensions. The British government, on receipt of the application, 
immediately assented to his request, and directed that in future he should be 
addressed by the title of highness, instead of excellency, which concession, he 
received with such a degree of joy and exultation as proved that his European 
education had not wholly eradicated his Asiatic prejudices. 

In 1816 he experienced a more substantial mark of British justice and regard 
for the long attachment of his family. In that year the Raja of Tanjore applied 
for compensation on account of the loss of tribute, during the period that Tran- 
quebar had been subject to the British authority; but the Madras Presidency 
considered his claim inadmissible. Reference, however, being made to Bengal, 
the Raja’s claims were there considered to rest on such very strong grounds, 
according to a fair and liberal construction of the treaty of 1799, as to render his 
reimbursement an indispensable act of justice. As the British government oc- 
cupied and benefited by the Raja s lands, which the Danes had been compelled 
to relinquish, it was not equitable that he should be liable to forfeit his due in 
consequence of any rupture between Great Britain and Denmark, as if the 
British government objected to the disproportionate magnitude of the rent, 
they had the option of restoring to him the lands j » -question, which could.not 
be alienated by any procedure to which he was not a party. In consequence 
tit the refusal received from the Madras Presidency, the Raja had abandoned 
every expectation of being remunerated ; and received the notification that his 
claims had been admitted with no less joy than astonishment. The amount of 
t be tribute payable annually by the Danish settlement at Tranquebar is 2900 
Tanjore chuckrums, which are equal to 800. star pagodas* at which rate, the 
total compensation amounted to 19,006 chuckrums* which were accordingly 
paid ever to him, at his own request, distinct from his regular annual revenue* 



456 THE CARNATIC. [takjor*. 

This province, having never been thoroughly subdued by the Mahommedans, 
retains, in their ancient perfection, many of the most objectionable Hindoo 
customs, and amongst others the voluntary immolation of widows at the funeral 
pile of their husbands. In 1815, it appeared, from documents submitted by 
the judge, thdt 100 of these sacrifices had taken place subsequent to the esta- 
blishment of the Court at Combooconum, although it had always been the 
practice of the magistrate to endeavour by remonstrance to dissuade the in- 
fatuated victim from this horrid act of suicide. The custom, it appeared, was 
not encouraged by natives of influence or education, and it has long been dis4 
couraged by the Raja of Tanjore ; indeed, with the exception of a few neces-\ 
sitous Brahmins, who derive a profit from this cruel rite, it did not appear that \ 
its abolition would here meet with any serious opposition. Considering, how- \ 
ever, the force of prejudice by which the unfortunate victims were actuated, and 
the misconstruction to which the interposition of the authority of government 
was liable, the Madras presidency doubted how far the measure of expressly 
prohibiting it, would be effectual, or free from the danger of worse conse- 
quences (probably secret in place of public burnings) than those against which it 
was meant to provide . — ( Lord Valenti a, Blackburne , Public MS. Documents, Wilks, 

C. M. Lushington , Rennell, J. Grant , Fra Paolo , $c. §c. §c.) 

Tanjoiie. — T he capital of the principality, situated in lat. 10° 42' N. long. 
79° ll'E. 182 miles S.S. W. from Madras. This city comprehends two for- 
tresses, both of which are given up to the Raja, but on the exigence of war, the 
British have a 'right, by treaty, to re-occupy them. The small fort is a mile in 
circumference, very strong, and in good repair. The walls are lofty, and built 
of large stones, and on the corners of the ramparts are cavaliers. The ditch 
which is broad and deep, is cut out of the solid rock, and has a well-formed 
glacis. It joins on one side to the large fort, where the Raja resides, which is 
fortified in a similar manner. The small fort contains the celebrated pagoda, 
the chief building of which is the finest specimen of the pyramidical temple in 
Hindostan. Within is a bull carved from a block of black granite, an excellent 
example of Hindoo sculpture. From one of the cavaliers there is a beautiful 
view. The pagoda forms the foreground, then appears the large fort with the 
Raja’s palace and temples, behind which a rich country is seed covered with 
rice fields and clumps of treefe, and beyond all a lofty chain of mountains. The 
river Cavery here is at the highest when the periodical rains prevail in Mysore,*, 

In remote ages this was the great seat of learning in the south of India, and 
here the almanacs were framed according to Which the year 1800 of the Chris- 
tian era corresponds with the year 1722 of Salivahanam, and the 4901 of the 
Cali Yug ; which reckoning differs one year in the former era, and seven in the 



THAvauEBAiL] THE CARNATIC. 457 

tatter from that used in Karnata. The British were repulsed from before Tanjore 
in A. D. 1749, and it was besieged without success by M. Lally in 1758. Tra- 
velling distance from Madras, 205 miles ; from Seringapatam, 237 ; and from 
Calcutta, 1235 miles. — (Lord Valentia , F. Buchanan , Rennell , §c.). 

Coleroo y River. — The northern branch of the Cavery, which separates 
from the other below the island of Seringham near Trichinopoly, bounds the 
Tanjore principality to the north, and after a course of about 80 miles falls into 
the sea at Devicotta. At the point of separation, the southern branch is 20 feet 
higher than the Coleroon, which latter is suffered to run waste to the sea. This 
stream formerly marked the division which separated the tributary Poligars from 
the immediate possessions of the Nabobs of Arcot. 

Poovaloor. — A town in the Carnatic, 21 miles N. from Tanjore. Lat. 11° 
N. long. 79° 8' E. 

Vellum. — A town in the Tanjore district, 8 miles S. W. from Tanjore. Lat. 
10°37'N. long. 79° S E. 

Devicotta. (Devicata, the fort of the goddess). — A town in the Carnatic, dis- 
trict of Tanjore, situated near the junction of the Coleroon river with the sea. 
Lat. 11° 25' N. long. 79° 52' E. 37 miles S. from Pondicherry. This place was 
taken from the Raja of Tanjore, by Major Lawrence in 1749, on which occasion 
Lieutenant Clive particularly distinguished himself. It was afterwards taken by 
M. Lally, in June 1758. — ( Orme , §c.) 

Combooconum. — A town in the Tanjore district, 23 miles N. E. from the city 
of Tanjore. Lat. 10° 59' N. long. 79° 20' E. This was the ancient capital of 
the Chola race, one of the most ancient Hindoo dynasties of which any traces 
have been discovered in the southern regions, and from which in later times the 
whole coast of Cholamundul (Coromandel) has taken its name. There are still 
remains indicating its ancient splendour. At present it is chiefly inhabited by 
Brahmins, whose habitations appear neat, and the district thriving. Some of 
the tanks and pagodas are very fine, but it is remarkable that almost invariably 
the outer gate of the pagoda is of superior dimensions to the temple itself. The 
surrounding country is rich and in a high state of cultivation. At this place 
there is a consecrated pond, which possesses, every twelfth year, the virtue of 
cleansing all who bathe in it from corporeal and spiritual impurities, although 
accumulated through many transmigrations. When these periods of plenary 
indulgence arrive, innumerable swarms collect from all points of the compass, in 
order to take advantage of the fortunate moment when the efficacy of the water 
is most intense, 

TRAKQCEBAR(TiirawgiAwr/;.— A Danish settlement in the Southern Carnatic, 
situated on the sea coast of the Tanjore district, 145 miles S. by W. from 
vat. II* 3 ; 



458 THE CARNATIC. [tranoteba*. 

Madras. A Danish East India Company was established at Copenhagen in 
1612, and the first Danish vessel arrived on the coast of Coromandel in 1616, 
when they were kindly received by the Raja of Tanjore, from whom they pur- 
chased the village of Tranquebar, with the small territory adjacent. Here they 
erected the fort of Dansburgh, the protection of which, and the correct conduct 
of the Danish Company’s servants, soon attracted population and commerce. 
The Company, however, did not prosper, as in 1624, they surrendered up their 
charter and property to King Christian the IVth, in payment of a ‘debt which 
they owed him. Under a frugal government the revenues of the port continued 
sufficient to pay the current expenses, and while Denmark continued neutral, her 
subjects realized vast sums by lending their names to cover British properly. 
On the unfortunate rupture with that kingdom in 1807, the Danes were deprived 
of all their settlements in India. \ 

The territory attached to Tranquebar is very small, being, in its most extended 
limits, about five miles long and three broad. The fort is large and Ml of popu- 
lation, both European and native. The walls towards the shore have been nearly 
destroyed by the encroachments of the sea, and the fortifications generally could 
not sustain a defence against a regular force, yet would suffice to protect the 
inhabitants against the attacks of predatory cavalry, to which they were in old 
times much exposed. Besides the town and fort of Tranquebar (comprehended 
in one), there are about 16 villages, but none of any note, except the large 
village of Pooriar, situated about one mile from the fort, and the smaller one of 
Tiladi, distant three miles, at each of which there is a government garden house. 
The revenues are but scanty, being principally derived from the government 
share of the wet grain cultivation (rice), as there are very few dry grains ; the 
farms for the sale of arrack, tobacco, oil, fish, &c. and also the produce of the 
sea customs. In A. D. 1809, the revenues of Tranquebar after deducting the 
price of the salt sold realised 16,013 star pagodas, and the net revenue, deducting 
charges, 15,154 pagodas; the average of the five prior years had been only about 
10,000 pagodas annually. A great decrease had then taken place in the produce 
of the land and sea customs, occasioned by the stagnation of trade, and the im- 
poverished state to which the settlement h$id been reduced by the events of the 
war. The increase, in 1809, had been owing to the recent introduction of the 
salt monopoly. 

Population of Tranquebar in Slhy, 1810 — Europeans . , 487 

Mixed breed, born in India 370 

Christians, (Natives 601 

Mahotamedans , ) • 1*446 

Total 10*679 



nagore.] THE CARNATIC. 459 

In 1,812, the commercial intercourse of this small settlement was principally 
with the isle of France, Prince of Wales Island, Ceylon, and Batavia. Its im- 
ports were then small, consisting of arrack, brandy, copper, and palmiras ; the 
exports were piece goods, amounting in value to 52,828 Arcot rupees ; the 
imports to 38,297 Arcot rupees. The import tonnage was only 23C tons, and the 
export 600 tons. After the pacification in 1814, Tranqnebar was restored to 
Its former owners, and has since greatly improved in commerce and population. 
During the war with Britain this settlement necessarily suffered greatly, but the 
inhabitants bore the evil times without repining, and their conduct was on all 
occasions so strictly correct and honourable, as greatly to raise their character 
in the estimation of the adjacent British authorities under the Madras presidency. 
The Raja of Tanjore still continues to receive the Tranquebar tribute, amounting 
to 2,000 chuckrums per annum. — ( A . H. Hamilton , Macpkerson , Reports on Ex- 
ternal Commerce , 8$c.) 

Pettycotta. — A town in the Tanjore district, 27 miles S. by E. from Tan- 
jore. Lat. 10° 20' N. long. 79° 20' E. 

Adriampatam. — A small town on the sea coast of Tanjore, 32 miles S. by E. 
from the city of Tanjore. Lat. 10° 19' N. long. 79° 26' E. 

Kellynellycotta. — A town in the Tanjore district, 26 miles south from 
the town of Tanjore. Lat. 10° 17' N. long. 79° 12' E. 

Calymere Point. — A promontory on the sea coast of the Tinnevelly pro- 
vince, near to which some pagodas are visible from the sea. Lat. 10° 18' N. 
long. 79° 56' E. 

Karical ( Caricala ). — A town on the sea coast of the Tanjore province, 8 miles 
south from Tranquebar. Lat. 10° 55' N. long. 79° 53' E. The territory around 
this place is extremely fertile, and produces abundance of rice, and salt is also 
made and exported. In the Carnatic wars from 1740 to 1763, Karical was a 
place of considerable importance, and strongly fortified. In 1760, it was taken 
from the French by Colonel Monson. At this period of history, the French, by 
purchase and cession from the Tanjore princes, had acquired districts round 
the fort comprehending 113 villages; the revenues of which, with the customs 
of the port and town, produced 30,000 pagodas per annum. — ( Orme t Son - 
neraty £$c.) 

Nag ore ( Nagara ). — A sea-port town in the Tanjore district, 13 miles south 
from Tranquebar. Lat. 10* 45' N. long. 79° 54' E. From this place there is a 
very extensive export of piece goods, to the eastward, to the isles of France, 
and to America. The imports from the eastward are pepper, betel nut, benzoin, 
sugar, and gallingal ; from Bengal, .borax, cummin seeds, ginger, long pepper, 
wheitt sad sugar ; from Ceylon, large supplies of betel nut, palmiras, arrack, 

3 k 2 



460 THE CARNATIC. [tondiman’s country. 

chanks, and coffee ; from Penang, pepper, betel nut, camphor, iron, and sugar. 
In 1811-12, the total value of the imports from places beyond the territories of 
Madras, was 903,171 Arcot rupees ; and the total value of the exports to ditto 
933*006 Arcot rupees. In the course of the above period, 1223 vessels and craft, 
measuring 38,868 tons, arrived, and 1798 ditto, measuring 50,245, departed. — 
( Parliamentary Reports , §c.) 

Negapatam ( Nagapatana). — A sea-port town in the Tanjore district, 20 
miles S. from Tranquebar. Lat. 10° 45' N. long. 79° 54' E. This place was 
taken from the Portugueze by the Dutch in 1660, who strengthened its fortifica- 
tions and made it the capital of their settlements on the coast of Coromandel. 
They also established a mint here, which used to coin gold to the amount of 
four or five lacks of rupees annually. In 1781, it was invested by the British 
with about 4000 troops ; on the 30th of October, the lines and redoubts were^ 
carried, and on the 12th of November, the town and fort surrendered by capi- 
tulation, after making two vigorous and desperate sallies. At the peace of 1783, 
it was finally ceded to the British, and the fortifications, having become of little 
importance from the altered state of the Carnatic, have been since little attended 
to. The town is now a place of inconsiderable trade, but frequently touched at 
by ships for refreshments, which are plentiful. — ( Fra Paolo , Lord Valentia , Ful- 
larton 9 Johnson , 8$c.) 

Trivaloor. — A small town in the Tanjore district, miles S. W. from Ne- 
gapatam. Lat. 10° 40' N. long. 79° 44' E. 

Tondiman’s Country. — A large zemindary in the Southern Carnatic, bounded 
on the north by the province of Tanjore, and on the east by the bay of Bengal. 
Throughout the eventful period of the various Carnage wars, from 1740 to 1760, 
the Tondiman family always exhibited the greatest fidelity and attachment to 
the East India Company, at a time when these qualities, even in a zemindar, 
were of importance. Great attention has in consequence always been shewn 
to the interests of the family, and to the amelioration of their landed estate. 
On the death of Vijaya Raghunath Tondiman in 1807, he left his zemindary to 
his two sons, then children, incumbered with a heavy debt of 80,000 pagodas, 
and which but for the interference of the Madras presidency, would have accu- 
mulated by embezzlement and usury to the utter ruin of the orphans. To pre- 
vent this natural progression of a native estate, the children were placed under 
the superintendance of Major William Blackburne, then resident at Tanjore* 
.with two of their most respectable relations as local managers ; and so different 
was the result under this system, that in 1811 not one pagoda of the debt' re* 
tnained unpaid, while the cultivation of the soil, owing to the steady regularity 
of the management, had been greatly improved. 



tondiman’s country.] THE CARNATIC. 461 

A considerable tract of land nearly 10 miles in length, and from three to six 
in breadth, extending north-east from the hill of Pramally, had from time imme- 
morial been an object of serious contention between the neighbouring and 
opposite villages in Tondiman’s country, and in Shevagunga. Unsuccessful at- 
tempts had been made at different times to settle the dispute, by British officers 
commanding at Trichinopoly, by the Nabob of Arcot s commandants at Ma- 
dura, and by the residents at Tanjore, but all ineffectual ; in consequence of 
which nearly four-fifths of the land remained in a state of nature, while the 
scanty crops of the remainder were sowed by armed cultivators, and reaped 
with skirmishing and bloodshed. In 1807, Major Blackburne made an effort to 
settle this long protracted dispute, and being summoned, the different represen- 
tati *es of Tondiman and Shevagunga appeared before him with their vouchers 
and locuments, in support of their respective claims to the contested territory. 

The result of a six weeks laborious investigation of the most important written 
documents produced on both sides, was the fullest conviction that they were all 
forgeries. The cadjans had been buried, or boiled, or baked, or steeped in 
various fluid mixtures to give them the particular hue required. Some of them 
appeared from the colour, as well as the date, to be above 100 years old. The 
fabrications were detected in some instances by cutting the cadjans apd exa- 
mining the edges, in others by glaring errors of chronology; and in the end both 
parties acknowledged the forgery of every document that would have furnished 
evidence had it been true ; which acknowledgement they made in the open 
court without shame, or the slightest apparent regret for the six weeks’ fruitless 
labour that had been spent in the detection of their forgeries. 

On the dismissal of these fabricated documents, both parties offered to shew 
a range of boundary stones, fully decisive in appearance of the justice of their 
respective claims ; to the rectitude and antiquity of which each party was ready 
to swear, although four years prior, when the ground had been inspected by 
European officers, neither were in existence. Additional evidence of their fal- 
sity was elicited from the circumstance of each being in some instances carried 
through the middle of extensive lakes, and in others so clumsily contrived as to 
cut off the lakes from the cultivation, which depended on their water for its ex- 
istence. Both claimants also in these new lines deviated considerably from 
their former pretensions, each advancing their line into their opponent’s quarters, 
yet each was willing to swear to the truth both of the old and new lines of de- 
marcation. It also deserves remark, that so careful had each party been to 
anticipate any preponderance of authority to the other from a .superior number 
of boundary stones, that from the point of Vamput village near Pramally hill, 
(the real commencement of the disputed tract) to the extremity at Connavay- 



462 THE CARNATIC. [abdikokt. 

putty, the number of boundary stones in each line was exactly equal. Thus 
the contradictory evidence of the boundary stones nullified each other, so that 
nothing remained but to make an equal division of the land between the con- 
tending parties, which was accordingly done, and the boundary stones marked 
with the government seal. As had been foreseen, this equitable division dis- 
pleased both parties, but it established peace where peace had been long a 
stranger, and a considerable portion of the then existing jungle has been since 
cleared, and brought under cultivation. 

The excessive rains that fell in 1 809, were not less injurious to Tondiman’s 
country than to the neighbouring districts. The banks of the tanks and large 
lakes gave way, and a considerable portion of the most promising rice crop was 
entirely destroyed by the inundations. The fields were also greatly injured by 
the beds of sand which were left upon them, and it would require many 
years to restore them to their former fertility. In 181 1* mahy judicial regulations 
for the better administration of justice, and more efficient police of Puducotta, 
the capital, were carried into effect. In that year the actual revenue amounted 
to 32,804 star pagodas ; the disbursements were as follow : 

The celebration oftheDusserahand other religious festivals 3,172 star pagodas. 


Palace expenses 10,195 

Servants’ wage 11,957 

Paid to the creditors 3,807 

Zemindary servants 3,086 


Total . . . 32,219 

( Major Blackbume , Orme, §c.) 

Puducotta. — The capital of Tondiman’s country, situated inlat. 10° 18' N, 
long. 78° 58' E. 30 miles S. by W. from Tanjore. Like other native towns, this 
was originally composed, with few exceptions, of mud and thatch houses, with 
irregular narrow streets, and consequently very liable to fires and contagious 
disorders ; but ir 1812, being consumed by fire, the young Raja was persuaded 
to rebuild it on an improved plan, by widening the streets and covering the 
houses with tiles. The more opulent inhabitants also engaged to rebuild and 
tile th£ir houses at their own expense; to the poorer classes the Raja fur- 
nished some pecuniary assistance, amounting altogether to 3000 pagodas. — 
( Blackbume , fyc) 

Tbipatoob. — A town in the Carnatic, 52 miles S. S. W. from Tanjore* Lat. 
10° r N. long. 78° 40' E. 

Armvghy ( Urddhauga ). — A town in Tondiman’s country, 42 miles S. by W, 
from Tanjore Lat UP 8' N. long* 79° 3' E. 



THICHINOPOLY.] 


THE CARNATIC. 


463 


THE DISTRICT OF TRICHINOPOLY. 

A district of the Carnatic under the Madras presidency, situated about the 
I lth degree of north latitude. To the north it is bounded by Salem and South 
Arcot ; on the south by Dindigul and Madura ; to the east it has the district of 
Tanjoxe ; and on the west, Salem and Coimbatoor. The country around Tri- 
chinopoly, although not So highly cultivated as Tanjore, is rendered productive 
of rice by the vicinity of that branch of the Cavery named the Coleroon. The 
size and situation of the city, the abundance of subsistence in the neighbour- 
hood, and the long residence of Mahommed Ali's second son, Ameer ul Omra, 
rendered Trichinopoly the favourite residence of the Mahommedans m the 
Southern Carnatic On the adjacent island of Seringham are two magnificent 
pagodas, which have, long commanded the veneration of the Hindoos. The 
climate here at particular seasons, on account of the quantity ~>f moisture, is not 
so intensely hot as m other parts of the Carnatic. In 1817, the total gross col- 
lection of the public revenue in this district was as follows : 


Land revenue 439,123 star pagodas. 

Salt 

Land customs 40,554 

Exclusive sale of spirits (abkarry) .... 8,347 

Sundry small branches of revenue .... 1,G58 

Stamps 4,055 

Tobacco monopoly 

Total . . . 493,739 


(5th Report, fyc. <$c.) 

Trichinopo]ly ( Trichinnapali ). — The capital of the preceding district, situ- 
ated on the south side of the Cavery, 118 miles S. W. from Pondicherry. This 
city was the capital of a Hindoo principality until 1736, when Chunda Saheb 
acquired it by treachery, but lost it to the Maharattas in 1741. From these 
depredators it was taken in 1743 by Nizam ul Mulk, who, on his departure 
to the Deccan, delegated Anwar ud Deen to administer the affairs of the Car- 
natic ; and on his death in 1749, it devolved by inheritance to his second son, 
the Nabob Mahommed Ail. In consequence of this arrangement, it sustained a 
memorable siege by the Frenc i ?nd their native allies, which lasted from 1751 
to 1755, and in the course of which the most brilliant exploits were performed 
on both sides ; but the extraordinary military talents displayed by Lawrence. 
Clive, Kirkpatrick, Dalton, and other officers, and the heroic valour of the 
British grenadiers, preserved the city, and established the British candidate on 



464 THE CARNATIC. [seringham. 

the throne of the Carnatic. The energy of character called forth on these occa- 
sions by the alternative reverses and success of the contending parties,, and the 
strenuous and manly exertions of each to repair their losses, and once more meet 
their opponents in the field, so admirably narrated by Mr. Orme, are scarcely 
excelled in interest by those of the Peloponnesian war, as related by Thucidydes, 
both historians being, in manner, spectators of the events they described. 

The relative condition of the Carnatic since that eventful period, has been so 
greatly altered, that the fortifications have been long neglected, and are crum- 
bling to decay. The hill on which they stand is an elevated rock of sienite, 
common in the province, about 330 feet high, placed in a flat alluvial country, 
on every side of considerable extent. On its northern and eastern side is the 
pagoda. Having long been the capital of a Hindoo principality, an idea prevails 
among the natives that much treasure is concealed somewhere, but its locality 
has never been satisfactorily ascertained. In 1816, a petition was presented by 
an individual named Chengalama Naik, stating, that he was the 20th descendant 
and heir of Vaswanada Naik, the former Raja of the Carnatic, and that treasure 
to an enormous amount was buried in the ancient Hindoo palaces of Trichino- 
poly and Madura ; viz. at the first, twenty-one thousand million of pagodas (8$. 
to the pagoda), and at the last rather less than ten thousand million of pagodas, 
the fractional parts being omitted ; to the whole of which he, Chengalama Naik, 
was the natural and legitimate heir, and requesting that, research having been 
made for the same, it might on discovery be transferred to his custody. A 
partial excavation was in consequence made ; but, as may be supposed, the 
attempt proved abortive. It cannot, however, be doubted, that a country like 
Hindostan, into which a current of silver bullion has been flowing for 2000 
years, must contain, somewhere, innumerable depdts of hidden treasure, all 
Hindoos being hoarders ; but probably not so very considerable as the arithmetic 
of the petitioner enabled him to specify. At present, Trichinopoly is the head 
quarters of the southern judicial courts of circuit, consisting of threfe judges, 
who also form a court of appeal. Travelling distance from Madras, 268 miles ; 
from Seringapatam, 205; and from Calcutta, 1238 miles.— (Orme, Heyne, C: 
M. Lushington , $c. §c. fyc.) 

Seringham (Srirangam J.— Opposite to the city of Trichinopoly the Cavery 
separates into two branches, and forms the island of Seringham. About 13 
miles to the eastward of the point of separation, the branches again approach, 
but the northern one is at this place 20 feet lower than the southern. The 
northern branch is permitted to run waste to the sea, and is named the Cole* 
roon ; but the southern, which retains the name of the Cavery, is led intp a va- 
riety of channels to irrigate the province of Tanjore. Near the east end of, the 



veeam ally.] THE CARNATIC. 465 

island of Seringham is formed an immense mound, to prevent the waters of *the 
Cavery from descending into the Coleroon. 

The Seringham pagoda is situated about a mile from the western extremity 
of the island, at a small distance from the bank of the Coleroon. It is composed of 
seven square enclosures, tne walls of which are 25 feet high and 4 thick. These 
enclosures are 350 feet distant from each other, and each has four large gates 
with a high tower, which are placed in the middle of each side of the enclosure, 
and opposite to the four cardinal points. The outward wall is nearly four miles 
in circumference, and its gateway to the south is ornamented with pillars, seve- 
ral of which are single stones 33 feet long, and nearly 5 m diameter. Those 
which form the roof are still larger. In the innermost enclosures are the 
chapels. 

About half a mile to the east of Seringham, and nearer to the Cavery, is 
another large pagoda, named Jambikisma, but this has only one enclosure. Pil- 
grims from all parts of Hindostan resort to Seringham for absolution, and none 
come without an offering of value. Here, as in all great pagodas, the Brahmins 
live in a subordination that knows no resistance, and slumber in voluptuousness 
that feels no want. This state of repose does not appear to have been disturbed 
until the siege of Trichinopoly, which began about 1751, at which period the 
French and their allies took possession of the island and pagoda of Seringham, 
but they never attempted to violate the inner enclosures of the temple, or ex- 
pose this Hindoo sanctuary to greater pollutions than were absolutely necessary. 
In 1752, the French army here was compelled to surrender to Major Lawrence, 
at which time it consisted of 35 commissioned officers, 725 battalion men 
bearing arms, besides 60 sick and wounded in the hospital, and 2000 sepoys. 
Their artillery was four 13-inch mortars, eight cohorns, two petards, 31 pieces 
of cannon, besides a great quantity of ammunition and stores. At present, the 
allowances made by the British government for the support of the pagoda and 
its establishment, amount to 15,600 pagodas per annum.— ( Orme, Wilks , #c. fyc.) 

Tooeeyoor. — A town in .he Carnatic, 25 miles north from Trichinopoly. Lat. 
11° TN. long. 78* 43' E. 

Arielooe ( Aryalar ). — A town in the Carnatic, 28 miles N. from Tanjore. 
Lat 11 # 7' N. long. 79* 10' E. 

Mahapae.— This place was formerly the residence of a tributary and refrac- 
tory poligar, and is situated 47 miles V. S. W. from the city of Tanjore. Lat. 
I <f 85' N. long. 78° 30' E. 

Veramally. — A town in the Carnatic, 23 miles S. W. from Trichinopoly. 
Lat 10° 39' N. long. 78° 35' E. At this place there is a hill remarkable for the 
detached masses of stone which lie upon its summit. Many of these have 

vol, n, 3 o 



THE CARNATIC. 


466 


fDIXDIGUL & MADURA. 


narrow bases and rest upon much smaller stones, while some merely rest oh a 
point and aonear almost to totter on their support. — ( Heync, fyc.) 


THE DISTRICT OF DINDIGUL AND MADURA. 

The district of Dindigul and Madura is situated principally about the 10th 
degree of north latitude, where it occupies about one degree of latitude, and 

of longitude. To the north it is bounded by Coimbatoor and Triehinopoly ; 
on the south by Travancore and Tinnevelly ; to the east it has the bay of Ben- 
gal ; and to the west Travancore and Coimbatoor. The particular portion of 
this district named Dindigul, is mountainous and woody ; the general surface of 
the country being about 400 feet above the level of the sea. The Dindigul 
valley, 75 miles long by about 20 broad, is formed by the great mass of the 
Pylny mountains on the north, by the Travancore mountains on the west, and 
on the east by a lower range of hills which extend from Dindigul to the bottom 
of the valley near Shevagurry, where they unite with the Western Ghauts. A 
projection from this range, commonly known by the name of the Aligherry hills, 
stretches eastward to within 14 miles of the garrison of Madura, and are the 
nearest high lands to that fortress. Along their northern base they are washed 
by the Vyar river, which after passing close to Madura, and traversing the 
zemindaries of Shevagunga and Ramnad, is absorbed into a large tank, near 
Altongherry, 20 miles south of Tondi. After passing Madura, the river is so 
diverted from its channel for the purposes of irrigation, that its bed at Ramnad 
is usually dry throughout the year, and only contains water when the floods 
happen to be unusually great. There are other streams which also run across 
Madura, and afterwards fall into the gulf of Manaar. 

The climate of Dindigul in common seasons is reckoned one of the finest in 
India. It seldom rains in March and April. May is the hotest month of the year ; 
but the thermometer does not rise here so high as in Coimbatoor and Madura, yet 
in December and January it seldom falls below 64°. In June, July, and August, 
the superiority of the Dindigul climate over that of the districts adjacent is 
very perceptible, owing chiefly to the number of hills that are scattered over the 
province, which arrest the clouds and cause the discharge of much rain. The 
temperature of the air is consequently rendered cool and pleasant during these 
months ; but for the remainder of the year the climate does not differ essentially 
from that of Coimbatoor. Notwithstanding its comparative superiority of cli- 
mate, this district, in 1809, 10, and 11, was visited by a destructive epidemic 
fever, which so thinned the population, that in many parts the rice rotted on the 
ground for want of hands to reap it. From the 1st of April, 1810, to the 31st of 
March, 1811, there died in the Dindigul divirion 21,510 persons, out of an 



dindigul.] THE CARNATIC. 467 

estimated population of 295,654 souls. In healthy years the deaths are said not 
to exceed 3438 persons ; and the distemper was accompanied by a similar mor- 
tality among the cattle. 

The principal towns in the Dindigul subdivison of the district are, Dindigul, 
Vedasundoor, Pilny, and Perryacottah : but the villages in general are not so 
well built as those of Coimbatoor ; the floors not being sufficiently raised above 
the level of the ground, while the roofs are low and miserably thatched. The 
lands lying farthest from the hills, are invariably higher and drier than those 
lying near their base, where many large marshy, weedy tanks are to be found* 
The general plain of the country is considerably lower than that of Coimbatoor, 
although higher than that of Madura and Tinnevelly. The labourers here are 
chiefly Pullars, and are not comfortably situated. Their houses, except in a few 
of the largest towns, such as Vedasundoor and Parcolum, are small, ill built, 
carelessly thatched, and but little raised from the ground, especially in the vil- 
lages near the hills, which have the appearance of misery and squalid poverty. 
Truckle beds are seldom used, except by such individuals as are above the rank 
of labourers, but coarse cumlics or blankets arc in general use. The dry culti- 
vation is to the wet as rather more than four to one. 

In the villages of Dindigul the same internal policy is found to prevail a,s in 
the other provinces of the south of India. Certain inhabitants under particular 
titles are in the enjoyment of a portion of land rent free, and are hereditary oc- 
cupiers of the remainder. Certain principal offi cers, the curnum (or register ac- 
countant of the affairs of the village), ironsmith, carpenter, barber, washerman, 
village watchman, potmaker, dancing girl, the distributor of water, &c. &c. are 
sometimes found in a village, sometimes only a part of them. They have the 
government produce of a portion of land assigned to them for their livelihood, 
but no claim to cultivate the land ; and from the occupation in life of many of 
the incumbents, it may be presumed they have seldom the wish. A portion of 
the produce is given to them in addition, both from the grain in the ear and from 
the heap when threshed. The country of Dindigul wa$ ceded by Tippoo in 
1792 ; and now, together with Madura, the Manapara pollams, Ramnad, and 
Shevagunga, forms one of the collectorships under the Madras presidency. The 
zemind&ry revenue system was attempted here, subsequently abrogated, and was 
followed by a progressively increasing village rent, earned into effect A. D. 1809. 
For the revenue collected see Madura. — ( Medical Reports , Hodgson , 5 th Report , 
Hurdis^c. 

Dindigul ( Dandigala ), — The capital of the preceding district, situated in 
lat 10° 18' N. long. 78° 2' E. 160 miles N. by E. from Cape Comorin. The 
thereof Dindigul is placed towards the western extremity of an extensive plain 

3o2 



468 THE CARNATIC. [poligar’s territory. 

about 30 miles long from east to west, and 25 wide from north to south, stands 
about 400 feet above the level of the sea, and is almost surrounded by mountains* 
The town lies extremely low within six miles of the hills, which are directly south 
of it ; the fort and fortified rock are close to the town towards the west, and the 
rock has at its base a large woody tank. Dindigul was conquered in 1755, by 
the Mysore Raja, and was taken from Tippoo by the British army in 1783, but 
restored to him at the peace of 1784. It was finally ceded to the British go* 
vernment in 1792, along with the district. Before the epidemic in 1809-10, 
and 1 1, it was supposed to contain 7000 inhabitants, in 1812 the whole popu- 
lation was as follows : men 1166, women 1334, boys 373, and girls 322; total 
3195. Travelling distance from Seringapatam 198 miles; from Madras 275. 
( Medical Reports , Wilks, Rennell , §c.) 

Taudicomboo. — A town in the Dindigul district, seven miles N. from the 
town of Dindigul. Lat. 10° 24' N. long. 78° 2' E. 

Pulney.—A town in the Dindigul district, 32 miles west from Diudigtn. Lat. 
10° 23' N. long. IT 35' E. 

Peri acullum. — A town in the Dindigul district, 30 miles S. W. from the town 
of Dindigul. Lat. 10° 5' N. long. IT 40' E. 

Taivaram. — A town in the Dindigul district, 117 miles N. from Cape Co- 
morin. Lat. 9° 54' N. long. 77° 25' E. 

Palapetty (Phalapati ). — A town in the Dindigul district, 52 miles W. S. W. 
from Trichinopoly. Lat. 10° 33' N. long. 78° 4' E. 

Shevagurry ( Sivaghari ). — A town in the Carnatic, 90 miles N. from Cape 
Comorin. Lat. 9° 55' N. long. 78° 32' E. 

Shevelpatore. — A town in the Carnatic, 103 miles N. by E. from Cape Co- 
morin. Lat. 9° 35' N. long. 77° 49' E. 

Poligar’s Territory. — A subdivision of the Carnatic province at present 
comprehended in the collectorate of Dindigul and Madura, and situated between 
the 10th and 11th degrees of north latitude. Although this tract has acquired 
the distinctive appellation of the Poligar s territory, the name is not peculiar, 
being common to every native chief throughout the south of India. 

These Poligars are military chieftains of different degrees of power and con- 
sequence, who bear a strong affinity to the zemindars of the Northern Circars, 
and thakoors of Rajpootana. Those whose pollams, or estates^are situated in the 
frontier and jungly part of the country, are represented to have been for the 
most part leaders of banditti or freebooters, who, as is not uncommon in Asia, 
had afterwards been entrusted with the police of the country. Some of them 
trace their descent from the ancient Rajas, or from those who Held high offices 
of trust under the Hindoo governments, and received allowances in land and 



THE CARNATIC. 


MADURA DISTRICT.] 


m 


money for the support of a body of horse and foot on the feudal principle. 
Other poligars had been renters of districts or revenue officers, who had revolted 
in times of public disturbance, and usurped possession of lands, to which they 
were constantly adding by successive encroachments, when the ruling power 
happened to be weak and inefficient. The heads of villages, when favoured by 
the natural strength of the country, frequently assumed the name and character 
of poligars, and kept up their military retainers and nominal officers of state, 
exercising in their contracted sphere many of t he essential powers of sovereignty. 

The amount of tribute which they paid to the soubahdars of the Carnatic was 
wholly disproportioned to the revenues, but more was constantly extorted by 
the officers of government, under the names of fines and presents, which was 
a perpetual source of violence and distraction. During the periods of public 
calamity, they retaliated upon the Nabob's officers and on the peaceable inha- 
bitants of the government villages, those acts of indefinite and oppressive au- 
thority which had been committed on themselves. Hence the British govern- 
ment was repeatedly burdened with large armaments to subdue these feudatories, 
involving heavy disbursements from the public revenue, and severe loss of lives- 

The pnncipal pollams or poligar estates are those of Sbevagunga, Ramnad, 
Manapara, Madura, and Nattam. The two first were permanently assessed in 
1803, at the same time with those ot Tinnevelly, and the rest were soon after 
settled in perpetuity. From that period the tribu- e of the poligars, although 
increased, has been punctually paid no blood has been shed, or money ex- 
pended in military operations against them, and the surrounding districts have 
enjoyed tranquillity under the revival of the ancient system of village police. 
The territory generally is not so well cultivated as the adjacent province of Tan- 
jore, but the soil is naturally very fertile, and the agriculture, from the steadiness 
of the internal administration, progressively increasing. — (5th Report , Lord' Va~ 
kntia , §c.) 

Nattam ( Natham ). — A large town in the Poligar s territory, 20 miles S. E. 
from DindiguL Lat. 10° 12' N. long. 78° 19' E. 

Meixoor. — A town in the Carnatic, 16 miles N. E. from Madura Lat. 10° 
2'N. long. 78* 26' E. 

Madura District (Mathura ), — This is a principal subdivision of the Din- 
digul and Madura collectorate, the limits of which have been described*. The 
climate of this tract differs in some respects from that of Dindigul, the country 
being less elevated, farther south, and not quite so cold in the months of Decem- 
ber and January. In April and May the thermometer ranges from 79 to 98°, in 
January it seldom falls below 66°. The north-east monsoon extends to the Ma- 
dura district in common with other parts of the Coromandel coast; but inland 



470 THE CARNATIC, [madura district. 

tbe rains fall more gently than in the parts bordering on the sea, and are not ac- 
companied with such strong winds. In the month of April the bed of the river 
Vaylaur, before dry, is invariably filled by the rains that have fallen in the west- 
ern mountains, on which circumstance the natives rely for the replenishing of 
their tanks. About the middle of November the tanks are full, and the Vaylaur 
impassable at the town of Madura for many days. 

In the Madura section of the district, there are marshy tracts lying within a 
short distance of tbe hills, which render the villages in their vicinity damp and 
unhealthy, and in other parts there is much jungle, particularly near the boun- 
daries of Tondiman s country. The high lands which surround Towarancourchy 
and Cottampetty are covered with thick woods, and there is a great deal of low 
fenny ground between these villages. Here, as in every country within the 
torrid zone, there are situations where fever never fails at certain seasons to be- 
come endemical, but in common years its influence is circumscribed. In bleak 
and moist seasons this distemper is most severely felt by the poor, who suffer 
extremely by exposure to cold and damps. The towns and villages, although 
superior to those of Dindigul, are many of them, in remote situations near the 
hills, badly thatched and miserably constructed. The four largest towns are 
Madura, Trimungalum, Chelavandam, and Nattam. Moolapetty in the Ramnad 
Zemindary is much resorted to by invalids on account of the salubrity of its 
climate. A sea breeze blows there night and day. On account of its having 
the ocean to the south, and the Bay of Valkerry due west, the west or land 
wind becomes. a sea breeze. 

The ancient sovereigns of this country were named the Pandian race, and it 
is supposed to have been the Pandionis Mediterranean and Madura Regia Pan- 
dionis of Ptolemy. In conjunction with Trichinopoly it forms a Hindoo geo- 
graphical division named Madru. During the Carnatic wars, from 1740 to 1760, 
it was occupied by a number of turbulent poligars, who held their dens and 
fortified castles within the recesses of the thick jungles by which it was over- 
spread. In 1801 it r was transferred to the British government by the Nabob qf 
Arcot, and in 1809, the revenues of the Dindigul and Madura collectorship 
were — 

Dindigul division and pollam . . . 162,729 star pagodas. 

Madura ditto ditto 145,897 

Manapar pollam * 28,753 

Ramnad zemindary 1 10,226 

Shevagunga ditto . 87,456 


Total 535,064 



Madura.] THE CARNATIC. 471 

In 1817, the total gross collection of the public revenue, in this district, was 
as follows : — 

Land revenue 437,986 star pagodas. 

Salt 3,555 

Land customs 54,633 

Exclusive sale of spirits (abkarry) . . 9,063 

Sundry small branches of revenue . . 985 

Stamps 3,109 

Tobacco monopoly 


Total 541,335 

In the remote periods of Hindoo history this was one of the holy countries of 
the south of India, the capital being styled the southern Mathura, and the dis- 
trict still exhibits the remains of many monuments of former Hindoo grandeur. 
In modem times the Christian religion has made no inconsiderable progress, the 
number of Roman Catholics in 1785 having been estimated at 18,000, besides 
those of the protestant persuasion. In 1809, 10, and 11, an epidemic fever pre- 
vailed in this territory, and destroyed a great proportion of the inhabitants. 
During the year preceding the 1st of May, 1810, out of an estimated population 
of 245,654 souls, there died 24,625 ; whereas in common years, the deaths 
amounted to only about 3933. In 1813, this division as well as those of Dindi- 
gui and Ramnad, became again unhealthy, fever being very prevalent, but not 
to such a degree as in 1810 . — ( Medical Reports, Wilks , Hodgson, Fra Paolo , 
Mackenzie , <£c. §c.) 

Madura. — An ancient city in the Southern Carnatic, the capital of the pre- 
ceding district. ‘Lat. 9° 55' N. long. 78° 14' E. 130 miles N. by E., from Cape 
Comorin. The town stands low when compared with the adjoining country, and 
the four sides nearly front the four cardinal points of the compass. Daring the 
Carnatic wars from 1740 to 1760, it sustained many sieges, and was often in 
the hands of refractory poligars, with which description of chiefs the district 
then swarmed. The great revolution, which, towards the conclusion of the last 
century, transferred the south of India into the possession of the British by 
removing hostile operations to a great distance, has rendered the maintenance of 
this and a multitude of other fortresses wholly superfluous. At present the fort, 
which is about three miles and three quarters in circumference, is surrounded by 
a wall and ditch, which together with several tanks within the fort, are filled 
ftom the river; in the immediate vicinity also there are many tanks and rice 
grounds, supplied from the same source. 

Some years ago Madura was supposed to contain 40,000 inhabitants, bat 



472 THE CARNATIC. \haaawa, 

latterly from various causes the population has decreased; and in 1812 amounted 
only to, men 5430 ; women, C815; boys, 4332; girls, 3492: total 20,069. The 
natives, with a few exceptions, are miserably poor, and their huts of the worst 
description. The streets are narrow, and filled with dirt and rubbish, and the 
old drains having been choked up, the rain stagnates everywhere in pools. 
Thousands of cattle are kept within the walls, where filth of all sorts accumulates. 
The fort is also too crowded with trees, which retard evaporation and infect the 
air with the exhalations from their decayed leaves, and the water in the fort tanks 
being seldom renewed becomes putrid and sends forth a deleterious effluvia. In 
1810, the fort ditch, which for years had been dry, owing to the profuse rains, 
was filled to repletion, and the level of the water within the fort, which in 1806, 
had been 20 feet below, rose to within three feet of the surface. 

At Madura there is a famous temple in a place called Pahlary, consecrated to 
the god Yellayadah, to whom his devotees bring offerings of a singular kind. 
These consist of large leather shoes of the shape of those which the Hindoos 
wear on their feet, but much larger and more ornamented. The deity of the 
place being much addicted to hunting, the shoes are intended to preserve his 
feet when he traverses the jungles. Travelling distance from Madras, 307 ; from 
Sermgapatam, 240 miles. — ( Medical Reports , Orme, Dubois, Rennell, §c.) 

Pera^ibooh. — A small town in the Madura district, 8 miles N. W. from the 
town of Madura. Lat. 9° 59' N. long. 78° 20 E. 

S no lav an den. — A large town in the Madura district, 12 miles N. from the 
town of Madura, Lat. 10° 1' N. long. 78° 5' E. 

Chattoor. — A town in the Madura district, 112 miles N. by E. from Cape 
Comorin, Lat. 9° 41' N. long. 78° 1' E. 

Shundrabandy ( Sundari Van a ). — A town in the Madura district, 106 miles 
N. from Cape Comorin. Lat. 9° 38' N. long. 77° 48' E. 

Marawa ( Maravasa ). — A subdivision of the Madura collectorship, bounded 
on the east by the Bay of Bengal, and on the south by Tinnevelly. Although 
the name is now principally confined to the sea coast, yet the tribe to which it 
owes its derivation is scattered over all the adjacent districts inland to the hills 
of Travancore and Dindigul. This territory possesses considerable advantages 
from its maritime situation, from the progressive increase of its external com- 
merce, and the permanent establishment bf a large public investment of doth, 
which employs its manufacturers, and maintains a considerable circulating 
capital. The southern division is remarkably well supplied with water from 
tanks where it is kept above the general level of the country. While one body 
of the peasantry are employed in letting out the water from the tanks, others 
art ploughing with oxen ancle deep in the mud, and a third set raising rnpunds 



Wvaounga.] THE CARNATIC. 473 

round small divisions of land to preserve a sufficient depth of water on the surface. 
Near the sea coast the country is in general extremely well cultivated, and is 
uniformly flat, and adapted for irrigation. 

The native Marawas are not remarkable for the neatness or comfort of their 
dwellings, unless it be in some of the larger towns ; their houses being indifferently 
built, little raised above the ground, and badly thatched. Coarse blankets, which 
are a common article of clothing in Dindigul, are here scarcely known, and 
truckle beds on posts are rare, so that a bleak and moist season is very destruc- 
tive to the poor, whose meagre and hagard looks indicate a predisposition to 
epidemics. The caste of Coilieries (Calaris), or robbers, who formerly exercised 
their profession without disguise as their birth-right, is rarely found beyond 
Marawa. The chiefs of this little state belong to that tribe, and conceive their 
calling no ways disreputable, as having legitimately descended to them like an 
inheritance. So far therefore from being averse to the appellation, a Coillery, if 
asked, will immediately answer that he is a robber by birth, parentage, and 
education, but that now the practical exercise of his avocation is much curtailed. 
In this territory there is also a caste of Totiyars, in which brothers, uncles, 
nephews, and other kindred, have their wives in common. 

Like the rest of the Southern Carnatic, Marawa exhibits many remains of 
ancient Hindoo religious magnificence, consisting of temples built with large 
massive stones. At small distances on the public road are choultries and pagodas, 
in the front of which are gigantic figures of richly ornamented horses, formed of 
bricks covered over with chunam, and shaded with fruit and lofty banyan trees. 
At a remote period of Hindoo antiquity, this tract formed a portion of the great 
Pandian empire ; but in modern times came into the possession of the Rajas 
of Shevagunga and Ramnad ; the first of whom was called the little Marawa, 
and the second the great Marawa, both occasionally tributary to the Nabobs of 
the Carnatic, and always refractory. The Madras presidency collected the tri- 
bute of the two Marawas from the year 1792; and in *1801, by treaty with the 
Nabob of Arcot, obtained the complete sovereignty . — ( Medical Reports , Lord 
Valehtia , Dubois , 5 th Report , Fullarton , 8$c.) 

Cotta vat am. — A town in the Marawa division, 52 miles south from Tanjore. 
Lat. 9° 59' N. long. 79° 14' E. 

Shevaounga (Sivaganga ). — A poligar town and zemindary in the Southern 
Carnatic, 69 miles S. S. W. from Tanjore. Lat. 9° 55' N. long. 78° 32' E. The 
general character of this estate is that of a dry country having a light soil. It is 
much overgrown with jungle, and though flat has no cotton ground. - The paddy 
grounds are confined to the left of the Vyar, which is finely cultivated, but there 
are few tanks and scarcely any hills. Among the native Hindoo princes, the 
wen. xi. Sr 



474 THE CARNATIC. [ramnad. 

poligar dogs of this vicinity are in high estimation, although the animal through- 
out India is generally reckoned unclean, and treated with unmerited contempt. 

Shevagunga was ruled by Rannies or princesses, until about SO years ago, when 
two brothers named Murdoo, of low caste, usurped the government under the 
title of Dewans, or prime ministers, and subsequently on the death of the 
Ranny, having mounted the throne, assumed the ancient title of the Pandian 
Rajas. They were expelled by the Nabob of Arcot, with the assistance of the 
British troops, but he afterwards reinstated them. Continuing refractory, they 
were attacked by a British detachment, and defended themselves in the fortress 
of Callacoil for five months, but it being at last taken by storm, the Murdoos 
escaped into the surrounding jungles, but were soon after taken and hanged. As 
no female heir existed of the old Shevagunga family, the country was given to 
a relation of the late Ranny, and in 1809 appears to have yielded the very large 
revenue of 87,466 star pagodas . — ( Medical Reports, Lord Valentia, Public MS. 
Documents, ftc. 8$c.) 

Callacoil.— A town in the Marawa division, 60 miles S. S. W. fromTanjore. 
Lat. 9° 65' N. long. 78° 54' E. 

Ram nad (Ramanatha ). — A town and large zemindary in the Southern Car- 
natic, 'ituated about 123 miles N. E. from Cape Comorin. Lat. 9° 23' N. long. 
78° 66' E. The Ramnad pollam, or estate, was granted to the ancestors of the 
present family, with the title of Sethepatties, for the defence of the road and 
protection of. the pilgrims resorting to the sacred pagoda at Ramisseram. The 
whole zemindary does not contain a single hill, nor is in general so dry as that of 
Shevagunga, having of late years suffered from the overflowing of die Vyar river, 
and in the vicinity of Kilcarry there are salt marshes communicating with the 
sea. There are also some tracts of cotton ground. The town of Ramnad has an 
irregular appearance, and has of late suffered greatly from the epidemic which 
so greatly depopulated this quarter of the south of India. Here is a fort com- 
menced many years ago by the Ranny's ancestors, but never completed. The 
palace adjoins to it, and is a gloomy building, with lofty walls, and no window 
on the outside. Near to it are the tomb of the Ranny’s deceased husband, and 
a protestant church of very neat architecture. The walls of the town are com- 
pleted externally, and are of massive stones, with loop holes at the top. It is 
still in good order, but without any cannon mounted. The great tank at Ramnad, 
where the river Vyar terminates its course, and which is usually not filled for 
seven years together, in 1810, owing to the redundant rains, bunt its hanks and 
ran into the sea. In 1609, the Ramnad zemindary appears to have yielded a 
revenue of 110,226 star pagodas. 

In 1813, the district court was removed from Ramnad to Madura, hi conse- 



ramisseram.] THE CARNATIC. 475 

quence of the unhealthiness of the former station, where in 1812 the population 
Wt i, men, 4679; women, 6427; boys, 1762; girls, 1613 — total, 13,481 : ofut of 
which number 2307 died of fever between December, 1812, and February, 1813. 
This great mortality was by some attributed to an infectious fever introduced by 
the pilgrims from Ramisseram ; by others to the remote and immediate effects 
of scarcity or rather famine. These effects were not simply mere starvation and 
inanition, vast numbers having been carried off by bowel complaints and drop- 
sies, in consequence of feeding on unwholesome roots and leaves to preserve life. 
Owing also to the destruction and migration of the inhabitants, many of the rice 
fields in the Ramnad zemindary had been allowed to run waste, and became 
covered with rank grass and weeds, generating infection and a. malignant state 
of the atmosphere. Notwithstanding these unfavourable circumstances it is 
remarkable that the sepoy garrison at Ramnad, consisting of one company, who 
were well clothed and fed, continued remarkably healthy. The imports to 
Ramnad are chiefly confined to supplies of betel nut from Ceylon, and red silk 
cloths from Bengal ; and to these places respectively piece goods, cotton, and 
chank shells are exported . — ( Medical Reports , Hodgson , Lord Valentia, fyc. §c.) 

Patinoor. — A small town in the Marawa division, 130 miles N. E. from Cape 
Comorin. Lat. 9° 40' N. long. 78° 38' E. 

Ramisseram ( Rameswaram , the pillar of Ram). — An island situated in the 
straits between the island of Ceylon and the continent, being separated from the 
latter by a narrow strait. In length it may be estimated at eleven miles, by 
six .the average breadth, and is low, sandy, and uncultivated. Lat. 9° 17' N. 
long. 79° 26' E. On his return from the conquest of Ceylon, after destroying 
Ravan, the king of the Racshasas (or opponents of the demigods), Ram, an 
incarnation of Vishnu, reflected, that during his wars many Racshasas, who 
were also Brahmins, had been destroyed, by which feats he had incurred the 
heaviest guilt. To expiate these crimes therefore, he set up an image of the 
lingam at Ramisseram, which he ordered to be worshipped, and it thencefor- 
ward became a place of pilgrimage* Such is the traditional account of this 
Celebrated pagoda, which still remains in a tolerable state of repair. The entrance 
to it is by a lofty gateway, about 100 feet high, covered with carved work to the 
summit. The door is about 40 feet high, and composed of single stones, placed 
perpendicularly, with others crossing over; the massiveness of the workmanship 
resembling the Egyptian or Cyclopean stile of architecture. The Square of the 
whole it about 600 feet, and it probably is one of the most superior native edifices 
in India. Into the inner temples none are permitted to enter but the attendant 
Brahnpns, who live in the town and have their share of the offerings. When the 
l!l$i of Tanjore used formerly^ to Msit this place, his current expeodiurte gene- 



476 THE CARNATIC. [tinn eyelet. 

rally exceeded 60,000 pagodas. The deity uses no other water, but that brought 
by the devotees the whole way from the Ganges, which is poured over him every 
morning, add then sold to the devout, thus yielding a considerable revenue to 
the temple. 

The guardianship of this sacred isle is in a family of devotees, the chief 
of which is named the Pandaram, and doomed to perpetual celibacy, the suc- 
cession being carried on by the sisters, or by the collateral branch. The greater 
part of the iucome is devoted to his use, and to that of his relations, who have 
possessed the supreme power above 90 years. When Lord Valentia visited this 
island in 1803, the Pandaram solicited his lordship s protection for their deity. 
Panban, the capital of the island, is about nine miles from the great temple, the 
road from which has been paved the whole way by the contributions of the 
pious ; and nearly every hundred- yards is a choultry with its attendant Brah- 
mins. The strait here is about a mile wide, but not passable except by very 
small vessels. The bed is rocky, and the entrance from the north only 100 feet 
wide, between two rocks ; and as another directly faces it, and the current is 
extremely rapid, much caution is therefore required to navigate it in safety. In 
the year A. D. 1310, the Mahommedans under Mallek Naib invaded the Car- 
natic, and pushed their depredations as far as Ramisseram, where they erected a 
mosque ; but the pagoda still retains its reputation for sanctity, and continues 
to be much visited by devotees, mendicants, anchorets, and ascetics, from 
the remote and crafty province of Bengal. These pilgrims usually proceed in 
companies on foot as far as Durbhasana, after which (according to their own 
accounts) two days are occupied in passing through a wilderness to the sea 
side, where they procure a boat, and cross to the island. They commonly carry 
water from the other* sacTed places they have visited, and pour it over the 
lingam erected at this place . — ( Lord Valentia , Ward , Mackenzie , Scott, #c. 8$c*) 

THE DISTRICT OF TINNEVELLY. 

A district of the Southern Carnatic, situated between the eighth and tenth 
degrees of north latitude, and occupying the south-eastern extremity of what is 
usually called the peninsula. To the north it is bounded by the collectorate of 
Madura; on the S. E. it is separated from the island of Ceylon by the gulf of 
Manaar ; and on the west it is bounded by Travancore, from which it is sepa- 
rated by a high ridge of woody mountains of extremely difficult access. Gene- 
rally speaking, however, Tinnevelly may be called an open country, as it eon-* 
tains few hills, and those insulated and detached; but it comprehends several" 
tracts of waste and jungle, especially towards the east, in the neighbourhood of 
Tutkorin. In the Punjmahai and Calacaud divisions, there are. numerous pal- 



TiNifEVKLLY.l THE CARNATIC. 477 

mira trees, growing m a sandy soil, and interspersed with dry grain cultivation. 
The elevation of the land above the sea increases as the country recedes from 
the gulf of Manaar; but the district on the whole is considerably lower than 
the adjoining ones. The principal rivers are the Tambarapurni and Svlaur. 
The first rises in the Travancore Ghauts, lat. 8 Q 35'N. and about. 12 miles from 
its source forms the cataract oi Pampanassum after which traversing a rich 
and cultivated country, it passes Palamcotta within a mile north, and proceeds 
towards the sea, into which it falls at Perma^oil, having been previously joined 
by the Sylaur. 

The Sylaur rises in the hills immediately north of Pooliery, at the eastern 
opening of the Ariangawel pass, soon after which it is united with several 
rivulets, the most remarkable being that which creates by its falls the Cour- 
tallum cataracts, in lat. 8° 56' N. This last mentioned stream issues among the 
the mountains that compose the southern side of a kind °f recess formed by 
the retiring of the Great Ghauts, and which is noted for the singularity of its 
climate. This recess is in width above 20 miles, and its greatest opening to the 
Ariangawel pass into the Travancore country about half as much; the passi&df 
being very narrow, and about ten miles in length Th^ .'recess has of late years 
been tolerably cultivated, and from the loftiness of the hills tire scenery is grand 
and picturesque, resembling certain romantic sjtuation&un Switzerland. Towards 
Cape Comorin there is another pass into Travancore, known by the name* of the 
Arumboolie pass, about two nines m width, and as much m length, the eastern 
opening of which lies exactly in the meridian of Cape Comorin, at the distance 
of twelve miles. 

Towards the southern and eastern extremity of the coast there are many salt 
marshes, the largest being situated between Colsailpalnam and Vesiaputty, m 
Calacaud. These marshes were formerly all distinct and separate, but owing 
to some recent inundations, four of them are now joined together They are 
separated from the sea by high sand-hills, have no natural communication with 
it, and are at unequal distances from it of from .four to 13 miles* Since the 
heavy monsoon of 1810, they nave been filled to a depth of from five to ten 
feet, and the stagnate water, by its long continuance, has done infinite mischief 
In that year, the inhabitants of the villages contiguous to these swamps com- 
plained that their houses were rendered, uninhabitable, their cultivated lands 
flooded, and that the water had risen so high about their palmira trees, as to 
prevent their extracting the toddy. A . cut was in consequence made from the 
united marshes to the river Gurryar, to drain off the waters, and for a time it 
answered, but the subsequent rains in February and March again choked up the 
openinar. 



478 THE CARNATIC. [tiknivelly. 

The climate of the northern portion of the Tinnevelly district greatly resem- 
bles that of Madura, but there is a considerable difference towards the centre* 
and along the fertile banks of the Tambarapumi. The northern monsoon sel- 
dom reaches these quarters before the end of November, and is generally not 
so heavy as in the central Carnatic. The rains are generally over about the 
end of December, about which period the thermometer seldom falls below 70° 
at sunrise. This district has one peculiarity of climate, which is, that a fell of 
rain is always expected late in January, sufficient in quantity to raise the rivers 
and replenish the tanks, which last are mostly of small dimensions. In March 
the thermometer ascends to 94°. The * cool retreats of Tinnevelly are Cour- 
tallum, already mentioned, and Trichendore, the climate of the first especially 
being particularly gratifying to the feelings of an European early in June, im- 
mediately after the heavy Malabar rains have commenced. The difference 
of the thermometer between Palamcotta and Courtallum is in general 
about ten degrees, the first being much hotter than the latter. With re- 
spect to this happy valley (of Courtallum) it is a singular fact, that even while 
the rains daily pour down, and the sky is constantly overcast, there is no sensa- 
tion within doors of damp, as there is in the Carnatic during the north-east 
monsoon, and razors and other steel instruments remain for a long time without 
rusting. Another circumstance greatly assists the convalescence of invalids 
which is a small cataract, or waterfall, projected from a rock, under which Eu- 
ropean visitors bathe, arid derive great benefit from its invigorating effects. 
The average temperature of trie water at this fall is from 72° to 75° of Fahren- 
heit. The greatest height of the lowest fall of a cataract here is nearly 200 feet: 
at no great distance from which there is a beautiful pagoda dedicated to Siva. 

Although, as may be inferred from the above description, the climate of 
Courtallum be very delightful during the months of June, July, August/ and 
September, it is far otherwise during those of February, March, April and May, 
partaking as it does of both monsoons. Being deprived of the salutary influ- 
ence of the southerly winds, filled with luxuriant vegetation, and unventilated 
during the fast mentioned four months, the climate becomes close and sultry, 
and generates an endemic fever similar to that experienced on the Senegal and 
Gambia, in Africa. Trichendore is a place on the sea side, about 30 miles east 
of Palamcotta, and is resorted to during the months of March and April, for 
for the benefit of the sea breeze rind change of air ; but it is in both these re- 
spects inferior to Moolapetty. In point of climate, generally, the TinfteveHy 
district has many advantages. The north-east monsoon is ipM; in March, 
April, and May, the unpleasant months of the year, the seals at hand, and in 
June July, and August, Courtallum affords a refuge to invalids. . ? • 



tlNNEVEwr.] THE CARNATIC. 479 

The chief productions of the district are rice and cotton, the latter of a supe- 
rior quality. In 1810, the revenue derived from the rice cultivation amounted 
to 285,000 star pagodas, while that from dry grains and pulses was only 95,000 
pagodas; a greater proportion of the inhabitants, consequently, must subsist 
on rice, than in the adjacent division of Dindigul and Madura. Many fruits, 
roots, and greens are also produced, but some of the most common Carnatic 
pulses are unknown, and during unfavourable seasons rice is imported from Tra- 
vancore. Prior to the French Revolution, when the island of Ceylon, and the 
islands to the eastward, were exclusively in the possession of the Dutch it was 
considered of importance to endeavour to establish spice plantations in the 
territories subject to the Madras presidency, and Tinnevelly being selected for 
the experiment, cinnamon and other spice plants were procured at a great ex- 
pense, and planted in the gardens established among the hills of that district. 
In 1814, the following amount of spices was collected and in store, in the year 
ending with the 31st December, 1814. vizL — 

Cinnamon . . . 1,394 lbs. . . trees 110,557 

Nutmegs in the shell 4,391 . . . trees 545 

Coffee 603 ... trees 25,253 

Few of the nutmeg trees had then attained their full growth, but they were 
generally flourishing and healthy; the cinnamon plants appeared &lso to thrive, 
and although inferior in quality to that produced at Columbo, the spice would still 
have been of value, if the British government had not acquired Ceylon; but that 
island having been annexed in perpetuity to the British dominions, the retention 
of the cinnamon gardens appeared no longer of sufficient importance to com- 
pensate for their annual expense. It was in consequence determined to. sell 
them as they stood; but nutmegs not being produced in Ceylon, it was thought 
advisable to retain the nutmeg and clove gardens among the hills. In 1815* a 
peari fishery was undertaken in the neighbourhood of Trichendore, and the con- 
tract taken by a native for 23,500 pagodas ; but notwithstanding the promising 
appearances, it wholly failed, and the government considered it expedient, 
with a view to future speculations, to grant the contractor a very liberal re- 
mission. 

The principal article of export to Madras, from the Tinnevelly and llamnad 
divisions, is cotton; which is afterwards consigned for side to China, in 1811, 
there was a great deficiency in the cotton crop. The next in valiie are the 
various assortments of piece goods, which are generally of a coarse description, 
and a considerable quantity of jaggory , with some indigo, dry ginger, and coco nuts. 
The imports received from Madras are inconsiderable, and consist of liquors and 
supplies from Europe, and China goods for the stations; besides which a few 



4B0 THE CARNATIC. [TiNKavxixr. 

drugs and articles of small value in use among, the natives, either medicinally, or 
for their numerous ceremonies, are received. The import, trade from places be* 
yond the territories of Madras, is principally confined to large supplies of betel 
nut from Travancore and Ceylon. In 1811-12, the total value of imports from 
places beyond the territories of the Madras government, was Arcot rupees 
292,113; and the total value of exports to ditto, was 189,152 Arcot rupees. 
The principal seaports are Vypaur, Tutacorin, Coilpatam, and Colarascara* 
patam. 

The chief towns in size and population are Tinnevelly, Alvartinnevelly, Sher- 
rnadevy, and Culdacourcliy. The Mahommedans here are very few, and the 
primitive Hindoo manners and customs are scarcely anywhere seen so pure and 
un mixed. Apparently the lapse of 20 centuries has made no change in their 
habits and customs. The Coillery tribe, on the western frontier, present no- 
thing of the ugliness and deformity -which generally characterize the inhabitants 
of the hills and wilds of Hindostan; on the contrary, they are tall, well made 
and featured, and are Of a martial disposition. Before they were thoroughly 
reduced to order, their arms were lances and pikes, bows and arrows, rockets 
and matchlocks; but whether with or without other weapons, every man con- 
stantly carried a sword and shield. The present inhabitants of Tinnevelly seem 
to live in a stile of superior comfort, to those of the neighbouring districts. 
Their dwellings are mostly well raised and constructed, especially in the towns 
lying along the fertile banks of the Tambarapurni, where tiled houses are seen, 
and wide, clean, and regular streets. In the northern and western tracts of the 
SMvelpatore estate, the houses are of a very inferior description, ill placed, 
damp, and unhealthy, concealing a gaunt, meagre, and unhealthy race. Blankets 
in Tinnevelly are but little known, and truckle beds are used only by the 
affluent: 

In times of remote Hindoo antiquity, this district formed part of the great 
Pandian empire, the capital of which was Tanjore. During the~ early Carnatic 
wars, from 1740 to 1760, it swarmed with independent poligars, distinguished 
by uncouth names, such as the Pullitaver, Nubbee Khan, Cutteck, Catabomi- 
naigue and Panialumcrutch, in a state of perpetual hostility, each having his 
fort or den situated among the woods and fastnesses, which then almost covered 
threerfourths of the country. At that period, in conjunction with Madura, Tin- 
neyelly was farmed for 1 1 lacks of rupees of revenue, and low as was the assess- 
ment, it generally ruined the farmer from the difficulty of collection. In this 
disorderly state it continued until 1792, from which date the Company collected 
the tribute ; but until very lately, the poligars of many of the smallest tracts of 
country exercised not only civil, but criminal jurisdiction! the services as well 



TIJfNEVELLY.] THE CARNATIC. 481 

as Ike lives of their subjects being at their disposal. When the war with Tippoo 
commenced, in 1799, and the Madras army was actively employed in his domi- 
nions, a formidable insurrection broke out among the southern pollams of Tin- 
nevelly, for the quelling of which a body of troops was marched into the 
country. This occasion was taken for disarming the poligars, demolishing their 
forts and strong holds, and reducing them immediately to the civil authority of 
the Company. In 1801, a second insurrection took place among the southern 
pollams, which was considered to be connected with another at the time exist* 
ing in the Dindigul and Malabar countries, but the whole were effectually sup- 
pressed. In this manner, by thecnergy. of government and the suppression of 
a divided authority, one of. the finest districts in Hindostan was converted from 
a state of anarchy and confusion, to one of subordination and prosperity. 

The chief part of the land revenue, of Tinnevelly arises from the wet lands, 
which yield two crops, in the year. The system under which the revenue was 
realized during the governments of the Nabobs of the Carnatic, and at first with 
very little improvement under the British, was that of all others the most liable 
to abuse. The government and the cultivators shared the crop, according to an 
estimate of the harvest made by persons appointed for the purpose, when the 
season was so far advanced as to admit of a probable estimate being formed. 
After the crop was reaped, the servants of government received the government 
share, which, if less than the estimate, the deficiency was made up by the 
fanner, if more, the surplus was equally divided. The next operation was to 
determine what proportion of the sovereign’s grain should be received in money, 
or rather how much of it should be delivered over to certain of the principal 
inhabitants to sell on government account. Two-fifths of the government pro- 
portion were m this manner generally made over to the inhabitants, at a price 
regulated by circumstances ; the remaining three-fifths were stored up by the 
officers of government. It was consequently the policy of the native mler, to 
increase his revenue by monopolizing the grain and enhancing the price, with- 
out regard to the ultimate amelioration of the country ; but it was consistent 
with British policy to endeavour to abolish the monopoly, and transmute the 
rent in kind to a money rent. 

It is evident that the native system had innumerable disadvantages, and 
tended to deteriorate both the morals and agriculture of the province. It held 
out encouragement to no industry but that exerted to defraud government, and 
by converting the character of the sovereign into that of a merchant, it forced 
the government to monopolize the food of the people to secure its revenue. 
The abolition of a system so replete with inconvenience, had long been a primary 

von. u 3 Or 



482 THE CARNATIC. {tinitevkly. 

object with the British authorities, but so many obstacles and impedimenta in- 
tervened* from the prejudices and habits of the natives, that it was not until 1809, 
that the transition to a money rent could be accomplished. The inhabitants 
liked the' old system because it was old ; because it held out a specious appear- 
ance of proportioning the sovereign’s demand to the produce of the season ; 
because their, apathy led them to prefer subsistence unattended with the respon- 
sibility of converting their grain into money, to profit accompanied by risk and 
requiring exertion ; and lastly, because the system presented a wide field of 
embezzlement, wherein to exercise their acuteness and ingenuity. Indeed, in 
all countries, the great mass of the people are the last to recognize the advantages 
resulting from the application of principles, which, notwithstanding their just- 
ness do notrhappen to be perfectly obvious. 

Under the old system, government nearly monopolized all the grain, because 
its share was withheld until the farmers had consumed theirs, when government 
grain was issued to the inhabitants, and the sovereign, having thus become the 
great cornfactor of the country, derived his revenue from a monopoly of the 
grain, instead of a rent from tht land. Under such an arrangement the re- 
sources of the country could not be developed, nor industry be properly exerted, 
although the revenue might have borne a high proportion to the land cultivated, 
and to the labour put in motion. Another great disadvantage was the balance 
annually left out standing, on account of the government grain remaining unsold, 
which in the first etgnt years of the Company s management usually exceeded 
36,000 pagodas. The inhabitants aware of this difficulty, were averse to the 
responsibility of a money rent, and the actual experience of many years justified 
their apprehensions. Notwithstanding these obstacles, in 1809, a three years’ 
settlement was concluded with th*- cultivators and farmers, the average of which 
for Tinnevelly, without the pollams, was 448,672 pagodas, which was less than 
Tfrhat it had in appearance yielded some years before. But it is not by a com- 
parison of the gross sum exhibited in a land tax, that the merits of a settlement 
are to be appreciated, but by the net revenue remaining in the treasury as an 
available resource to the exigencies of the state. Although a transition from a 
rent in kind to a money rent could not be effected without some diminution of 
the gross revenue, on account of the novelty of the system, and compensation 
necessary for.the consequent risk and exertions of the renters, yet this apparent 
decrease was counterbalanced by a diminution of charges, and by a general im- 
provement of the resources of the country, resulting from the introduction of a 
mom rational system of collection. In 1817, the total gross collection of the 
publkMevenue in die Tinnevelly district was as Callows : — 



VETFAR.] 


THE CARNATIC. 


483 


Land revenue 480,261 star pagodas. 

Salt 4,561 

Land customs 30,663 

Exclusive sale of spirits (abkarry) . 3,294 

Sundry small branches of revenue 

Stamps 4,296 

Tobacco monopoly 


Total 564,131 

In 1810, the population of this district was estimated at 690,695 souls, but in 
the years 1809, 10, and 11, it suffered greatly from an epidemic fever which pre- 
vailed, and between the beginning of February, 1810, and the 30th of June, 
1811, destroyed 38,802 persons. It was accompanied by a great mortality 
among the cattle, which in India seem always to sympathize with the human 
race. — ( Hepburn , Public MS. Documents , Medical Reports, 5th Report , Orme , 
Hodgson , Lushington, Cotton, 8$c. <§*c. §c.) 

Tinnevelly (Trinavali, one of Vishnu s names).— The capital of the dis- 
trict, situated in lat. 8° 48' N. long. 78° 1' E. 59 miles N. N. E. from Cape Co- 
morin. This town stands about 25 miles east of the great mountains, and is large 
and populous. On three sides it is surrounded by extensive paddy fields, wa- 
tered from the river, and on the west by dry, high, rocky ground. — ( Medical 
Reports , %c.) 

Coillerepettah.— A town in the Tinnevelly district, 100 miles N. N. E. 
from Cape Comorin. Lat. 9° 23' N. long. 78° id' E. 

Nattradacotta (Natha Radha Cata .) — A town in the district of Tinnevelly, 
68 miles N. E. from Cape Comorin. Lat. 8° 46' N. long. 78° 19' E. 

Palamcotta (Palincotta). — This town stands 200 feet above the level of the 
sea, and is situated 57 miles N. N. E. from Cape Comorin. Lat. 8° 35' N. long. 
79° 37' E. 

Alvarcoil. — A town in the Tinnevelly district, 69 miles N. E. from Cape 
Comorin. Lat. 8° 51' N. long. 78° 14' E. 

Mooloopetta. — A town on the sea coast of the Tinnevelly district, 90 miles 
iV. E. from Cape Comorin. Lat. 9° 13' N. long. 78° 55' E. 

Cullatoor ( Calatur ). — A town in the Tinnevelly district, 100 miles N. E. from 
Cape Comorin. Lat. 9° 5' N. long. 78° 38' E. 

Petalnaig (Patala Nayaca ). — A town in the Tinnevelly district, 92 miles 
N. E. < from Cape Comorin. Lat. 9° 13' N. long. 78° 27' E. 

Vetpar (or Bipar ). — A town on the sea coast of the Tinnevelly district, 101 
miles N. E. from Capo Comorin. Lat. 9° T N. long. 78* 42' E. 

3q2 



484 THE CARNATIC. [cape comobin. 

Tuticobin. — A town on the sea coast of Tinnevelly, 90 miles N.E. from 
Cape Comorin. Lat. 8° 57' N. long. 78° 36' E. At this place there is a pearl 
fishery, but the pearls found are reckoned inferior to those procured in the bay 
of Condatchy, off the coast of Ceylon, being stained with a blue or greenish 
tinge. In April, 1810, the fishery of the Toolayeram Paar pearl-bank was rented 
to two contractors, who were to have ten days complete fishing with 50 boats, for 
which they engaged to pay 34,300 star pagodas. This fishery produced 2,203,658 
oysters, of which one-third went to the divers, and two-thirds to the renter. 
When it was completed, it was relet 

For three days, with 60 boats, for 10,337 pagodas. 

75 boats, afterwards, for three days, sold for .... 15,787 

400,000 oysters fished afterwards on the Company's account 7,045 

Grand total 67,470 pagodas. 

The charges amounted to 550 pagodas, and the Toolayeram bank was then con- 
sidered so completely fished, that nothing more could be expected from it for at 
least seven years to come. The conducting of this business requires six weeks’ 
constant attention on the part of the superintendant deputed by the British go- 
vernment, (usually the collector of Tinnevelly), and during its continuance the 
atmosphere is rendered insupportable by the exposure of so many millions of 
oysters (probably little short of 40 millions) to putrify in the open air. In 
1807, the net revenue derived from the pearl fishery at Tuticorinwas 81,917 
star pagodas. — ( Hepburn , §c.) 

Pandalamcourchy. — A town in the Tinnevelly district, 88 miles N. N.E. 
from Cape Comorin. Lat. 9° 5' N. long, 78° 24' E. 

Vadagarry. — A town in the Tinnevelly district, 77 miles N. from Cape 
Comorin. Lat. 9° 12' N. long. 77° 36' E. During the wars of the Carnatic, 
from 1740 to 1760, this place was possessed by a tributary poligar, who gave a 
great deal of trouble both to the Nabob of the Carnatic and to the East India 
Company. 

Wycodoo. — A town in the Tinnevelly district, miles N. from Cape Co- 
morin. Lat. 8° 43' N. long. 77° 42' E 

Callacaud. — A town in the Tinnevelly district, 39 miles N. by E. from 
Cape Comorin. Lat. 8° 36' N. long. 77° 53' E. 

Panamgoody. — A town in the Tinnevelly district, 22 miles N. N. E. from 
Cape Comorin. Lat. 8° 21' N. long. 77° 53' E. 

Coniacombry,— A small town on the sea coast of the Tinnevelly district, 
13 miles E. by N. from Cape Comorin. Lat. 8* 8' N. long. 77° 54' £. 

Cape Comorin (Cumari).— The southern extremity of Hindustan, situated in 
lat. 8° 4' N. long. 77° 45' F 



THE ISLAND OF CEYLON. 


(SINOHALA.) 


This island is situated at the west entrance of the Bay of Bengal, within the 
latitudes of 5° 56' and 9° 46' N. and the longitudes of 79° 36' and 81° 58' £. On 
the north-west it is separated from the Coromandel coast by the Gulf of Manaar, 
and is about 150 miles distant from Cape Comorin. On the south and east it is 
washed by the great Indian Ocean. From Point Pedro at the northern ex- 
tremity to Dondra head at the southern, the extreme length is about 270 miles, 
and the extreme breadth about 145, but the average breadth does not exceed 100 
miles, giving a superficial area of about 27,000 square miles. Towards the south 
the island is much broader than at the north, and in shape it nearly resembles 
a ham. 

Viewed from the sea, the south-eastern coast of Ceylon presents a fresher 
green and more fertile appearance than most parts of the Coromandel coast, and 
is also singularly picturesque. Hills are seen rising above bills, many beautiful 
and verdant, others huge, rocky, and of extraordinary shapes, resembling ancient 
castles, ruined battlements, and pyramids of great altitude. The southern divi- 
sion of the island is very mountainous ; but in advancing north, extensive plains 
are left between the mountains and the beach, and with the exception of the hills 
about Trincomalee, no elevation is there to be found 100 yards above the level 
of the sea. On the south coast a number of large rivers join the ocean, whik 
on the other there are only two of any magnitude, the Batticalo and the Maha- 
villy Gunga, which last disembogues not far from Trincomalee, and is the largest 
of the island. Few of these are navigable, even for small barges, more than 15 
miles from the shore, but the Mahavilly (Mahavali) is navigable inland nearly as 
far as Candy, where it is interrupted by a ridge of rocks that extends across its 
channel. The current, however, is so powerful as greatly to impede the ascent 
against the stream. The districts of Matura, Point de Galle, Columbo, and 
Chilaw, are greatly benefited by rivers and canals by which they are inter- 
itected. From Mahadampe in the vicinity of Chilaw to Mahakoone, near Caltura, 
an extent of 70 miles through a fertile and populous country, the inland naviga- 



486 THE ISLAND 

tion is almost without obstacle. The north and north-west coast, from Point Pedro 
to Columbo, is flat, and indented with inlets from the sea. The largest of them 
extends almost quite across the island from Mullipatty to Jafnapatam, of which 
it forms the peninsula. The sea by which Ceylon is surrounded is practicable 
for larg& ships from Point Pedro north to Trincomalee, Batticalo, Point deGalle 
and Columbo ; but from these to Manaar and Jafnapatam, commerce must be 
carried on in vessels not exceeding 100 tons, and even the greater part of their 
cargoes must be unshipped while passing the channels of Pomben or Manaar. , 
Indeed, the principal portion of this trade is conveyed in small barks of from 
20 to 50 tons burthen. The principal harbours for large ships are Trincomalee, 
and Point de Galle ; but they also come to anchor, and at certain seasons of the 
year moor securely, in the roads of Columbo. There are other inferior ports all 
round the island, which afford shelter to smaller vessels. These are Batticalo, 
Barbareen, Matura, and Caltura, on the south and east ; and on the west Ne- 
gumbo, Chilaw, Calpenteen, Manaar, and Point Pedro. Adam’s Peak, the most 
remarkable mountain, lies about 50 miles E. by S. from Columbo. 

Although Ceylon is situated so near to the equator, the heat is not so oppres- 
sive as on many parts of Coromandel ; but this temperature is chiefly confined to 
the coast, where the sea breezes have room to circulate. Approaching the south, 
all the coast extending along the districts of Chilaw, Columbo, Point de Galle, 
and Matura, are under the influence of the south-west winds, which blow on 
the coast of Malabar from May to August ; and in point of climate it greatly 
resembles Malabar, with the exception that it feels also the north-eastern mon- 
soon, and is consequently of rather a moister atmosphere. The rest of Ceylon 
is subject to the north-eastern monsoon only, and has a climate like that of Co- 
romandel, being extremely dry from February to November. This division of 
the monsoon is caused by the lofty mountains of the interior, which intercept 
the currents of air, and terminate their effect on each side respectively. On the 
west, where Columbo lies, the rains prevail in the months of May, June, and 
July, but have no effect on the north-western portion of the island. In the 
months of October and November, when the opposite monsoon sets in on the 
Coromandel coast, it is the north of Ceylon that feels its influence, while the 
south remains undisturbed. On account of these peculiarities of climate, the 
productions differ extremely on the opposite sides of the island. From Tangai 
to Chilaw, a distance of 135 miles, the trees that thrive best are the coco-nut 
and jack fruit. The first are so abundant that the whole space is a continuity 
of coco-nut gardens ; whereas on the north side of the island the palmira suits 
best, and is most cultivated, especially about Jaffna. All productions requiring 
a moist soil flourish best on the south-west side ; and those requiring a dry one 



OF CEYLON. 


487 

on the north and north-east sides, The tract of country contiguous to the Co- 
romandel coast is singularly barren, and only in some parts adapted for rice 
cultivation. The ground for many miles exposes a naked surface, and the air, 
owing to the want of rain, and a parching wind which destroys vegetation, is 
excessively sultry. This portion of Ceylon for soil and climate is certainly the 
worst in the island ; yet it is here the ruins of the Giants’ Tank, and of the great 
town of Mantotte are found ; both indicating the former existence of a rich and 
laborious population ; the tradition of which is now all that remains. 

The soil of Ceylon is in general sandy, with but a small mixture of clay. In 
the south-west quarter, especially about Columbo, there is a great deal of 
marshy land, which is very rich and productive. This tract is chiefly occupied 
with cinnamon plantations, and the island taken altogether does not produce 
rice sufficient for the inhabitants, yearly supplies from Bengal and other parts 
being required. The agriculture of the Ceylonese is still in its rudest state, 
partly owing to the inveterate indolence of their habits. Their fields, when 
they can be watered, yield them food of different sorts sufficient to maintain 
their existence, and which seems to be as much as they desire, every expedient 
being employed to escape from labour. There are two rice harvests, the great 
and the little. The first is sown in July, August, September, and October, and 
is reaped in January, February, and March ; the second in March, April, and 
May, and reaped in August, September, and October. Their plough consists of 
a crooked timber shod with a piece of iron that tears up rather than ploughs the 
ground. After the first ploughing, the fields are flooded, and then ploughed 
anew, and weeds are extirpated with considerable care. When the ploughing 
season arrives, each village makes it a common conceni, and every one attends 
with his plough and oxen, until the whole of the fields belonging to the com- 
munity are finished. The same arrangement is followed in reaping the grain, 
after which, oxen are employed to tread it out. 

The seeds of all European plants degenerate very much, and in a few years 
yield but very indifferent returns. To preserve the quality, it is absolutely ne- 
cessary to have a fresh importation almost every year. Some of the indigenous 
plants, such as the coco nut, flourish with singular vigour. Between Columbo 
and Madura the finest trees are found in soft ground that is not marshy, or in 
a sandy soil in a maritime situation, where it thrives even when its roots are 
washed by the surge of the ocean. It is also remarkable that those trees which 
are near to the shore, bend their heads towards the sea, notwithstanding the 
regular sea breezes, the violence of the south-west monsoon, and that they are 
perfectly sheltered from all winds blowing from the interior. A full grown and 
healthy coco-nut tree* will yield from 50 to 60 nuts annually. Coconuts* coco- 



THE ISLAND 


488 

nut oil, copras, and coir, are all the produce of the same tree. jCopras is the 
kernel of the nut after it has been cut into slices, and for some time exposed to 
the sun, until all the watery particles have evaporated. When the oil is ex- 
tracted’from the copras by pressure, it has a strong rancid smell. Those who 
wish to have the oil perfectly clear and free from any disagreeable odour, scrape 
the nut while fresh from the tree, and wash the scrapings in water, which be* 
comes of a milky white. On exposing the mixture to the action of fire, the oil 
swims on the surface and is collected. Coco-nut oil prepared in this manner, is 
very pure, and if used immediately is palatable ; but with a few days keeping 
it acquires a strong scent, and at 70° of Fahrenheit, a consistency like butter. 
The exportation of coco-nut oil to Europe deserves the attention of enterprizing 
merchants and the encouragement of government, as an increasing demand 
would cause large tracts of waste land, capable of producing nothing else, to 
be covered with the coco-nut palm. The coir, or fibres of the coco-nut husk, 
has long been known in the eastern seas, as an excellent material for the fabri- 
cation of cables, standing, and even of running rigging, and a considerable 
quantity is annually exported, especially to Bengal. The fineness of the fibres, 
and a clear yellow colour, establish the excellence of the commodity. The first 
quality proves that the fibres have been well cleaned from a pulpy substance 
that adheres to them in their natural state ; the second that the article has been 
steeped in clear flowing water, and not in that which is stagnant or putrid. If 
the latter has taken place, the coir becomes of a dirty grey colour, and its 
strength is materially impaired. 

Coffee grows remarkably well in Ceylon, where it requires a flat, light, black, 
rich soil, and ought to be well sheltered from the sun. The pulp of the coffee 
berry is of a very agreeable taste, and much prized by birds, especially crows, 
which in this island are numerous and destructive. The cardamom of Ceylon is 
reckoned inferior to that of Malabar. The areca, or betel nut, is a very consi- 
derable article of Ceylonese produce and exportation; the revenue accruing 
from it being nearly equal to one-fourth of the total amount of the sea customs. 
The prosperity of the Jafnapatam peninsula chiefly depends on the cultivation 
and sale of tobacco, of a quality peculiar to that soil, and prepared for chewing 
by a particular process. The same kind of commodity is not procurable from 
any other part of India, and is held in such estimation by the natives of Travan- 
eore, that the Raja of the province, who monopolizes its sale, derives a great 
revenue from its consumption. The vent of this species of tobacco is princi- 
pally confined to the markets of Travancore and Sumatra, besides the internal 
consumption of the island, and more especially about Point de Galle. Travan- 
eore takes annually 3000 candies ; Sumatra 1500 ; and Point de Galle 350, each 



OF CEYLON. 


489 

candy weighing 500 lbs. avoirdupois. Besides these staples, Ceylon produces 
a great variety of the finest sort of woods used for cabinet work, such as the 
calam&nder, homander, viam wood, ebony, satin wood, jack wood, iron wood, 
besides the tulip, tamarind, cotton, and teak tree, as also timber fit for planks, 
casks, house and ship building* masts, and spars. The sappan wood is indige- 
nous in Ceylon, and grows spontaneously in the southern districts. In plants, 
the island is remarkably prolific; and among the fruits may be reckoned oranges, 
pomegranates, citrons, lemons, water melons, pumkins, common melons, squashes, 
figs, almonds, mulberries, bilberries, mangoes, shaddocks* mangusteens, rose 
apples, cushoo apples and nuts, custard apples, plantains, jack fruit, coco nuts, 
and several sorts of pepper, cardamoms, and the produce of the sugar tree, 
which is a species of palm. 

The principal cinnamon garden lies in the neighbourhood of Columbo, and 
occupies a tract of country about 12 miles in circumference. Others of a 
smaller size are situated at Negumbo, Caltura, Point de Galle, and Matura, ex- 
tending along the south-western coast. No cinnamon trees are found west of 
Chilaw, or to the eastern side of Tengalle, and are equally unknown about 
Trincomalee and Jafnapatam, where the climate is dry and sultry. Within the 
confined space where it flourishes, the air is moist, and rain falls almost every 
month. In a wild state the tree, which, is the laurus cinnamomum (or coorundoo 
of the Cingalese), grows to the height of from 20 to 30 feet, but within the gar- 
dens they are not permitted to rise above 10 feet, and present the appearance 
of numerous shoots from the same root. Their appearace is beautiful, but the 
fragrance of the cinnamon forests is not near so great as strangers have been led 
to. imagine. The surface of the planted grounds at Columbo, is a pure, white 
sand, under which is a deep stratum of rich mould. The leaves are of an oval 
shape, from four to six inches in length, and have scarcely any taste. When 
they first shoot from the tops of the branches, they are partly of a bright red, 
and partly of a pale yellow, and at last become of a dark olive colour. The 
blossoms are of a pale yellow colour, and have remarkably little smell ; and the 
wood when deprived of the bark, none at all. The fruit is shaped like an acorn, 
and in taste resembles the juniper berry, but is not so large as a black currant. 
The natives reckon ten different sorts of cinnamon bushes, but the apparent dif- 
ference is only a slight variation in the leaf. Five kinds only are esteemed fit 
for use ; the honey cinnamon, the snake cinnamon, the taste cinnamon, the smell 
cinnamon, and the bitter cinnamon. 

The cultivated cinnamon plants are raised from seeds put into the ground 
during the rainy season, from shoots, from layers, and from ,old stumps trans- 
planted, all of which are practised. It blossoms in the month of January, when the 

vol. u. 3 a 



THE ISLAND 


490 

gardens look most beautiful ; in April the fruit is ripe, and soon after the decor* 
tication begins, for which process May and June are esteemed the best months* 
This operation as may be supposed, requires many labourers, each of whom is 
obliged to.fumish about as large a bundle of sticks as he can easily carry. The 
first selects a tree apparently fit for cutting, into which he strikes his hatchet. 
If on drawing it out the bark separates from the wood, the cinnamon has at- 
tained a proper degree of maturity ; but if it adhere he passes on to another. 
The shoots cut down are from three to five feet in length, and about three- 
fourths of an inch in diameter. When this part of his labour is completed, he 
carries his load to a hut or shed, where it is stripped and cleaned. The fra- 
grance perceived in the vicinity of these hamlets is very strong, but in other 
parts of the plantations where the bushes are not violently shaken, the smell of 
the cinnamon cannot be distinguished. In the subsequent process of drying, 
the bark contracts and curls into tubes, when the smaller are inserted within 
the larger, after which they are brought to the government warehouses, where 
they undergo a second packing into bundles sewed into coarse cloth, each 
weighing 92 pounds. When one layer of bales is stowed in the ship, the inter- 
stices are filled up with loose black pepper imported from Malabar, which by 
absorbing the superfluous moisture, improves the quality of the cinnamon, while 
its own flavour is heightened. The best cinnamon is of a light brown colour, 
of a fine texture, smooth surface, a little pliable, and does not much exceed the 
thickness of royal paper. Its taste is sweet and poignant, but not so strong as 
to occasion pain, while the coarse cinnamon is painfully hot and pungent, thick 
and hard in substance, and of a dark brown colour. From the broken fragments 
and refuse cinnamon an oil is distilled, but so small in quantity that it usually 
sells at the rate of ten guineas per quart. The best quality is of a pale gold 
colour, and unlike all other oils sinks in water, which circumstance determines 
its excellence, as that distilled from coarse cinnamon floats on the surface. The 
cultivation of this spice in gardens was first introduced by the Dutch governor 
Falk, about 50 years ago, but little attention was paid to the plantations by the 
succeeding governors, so that on the British conquest they were found in ex- 
treme disorder, overgrown with wild shrubs, weeds, and creepers. From this 
state of degradation they were rescued by the Earl of Guildford, during his 
government of Ceylon, and have continued ever since to flourish and improve. 
The cinnamon plant has been tried at Batavia, the Isle of France, in the West 
Indies, and latterly with much care, on the opposite coast in Tinnevelly ; but it 
has invariably degenerated, and, as has been already mentioned, in Geylqn itself, . 
there is only a particular tract that produces it in perfection. 

Ceylon possesses a great variety of animals, at the head of which the elephant 



OP CEYLON. 


must be placed. The superiority of the Ceylon elephants does not consist in 
their size, for they are in general not so tall as those of Pegu and Chittagong, 
but in their hardiness and strength added to their great docility and freedom 
from vice or passion. The natives of the island are so possessed with the idea 
of the excellence of their own elephants, as to affirm, that the elephants of every 
other part of the world make a salam (obeisance) before those of Ceylon, and 
thus instinctively acknowledge their superiority. Domestic animals are not nu- 
merous, and the horse is not an aboriginal of Ceylon. Some have been im- 
ported from Bombay by the European settlers, and others bred in the Jafnapa- 
tam district, from a mixture of the Arab and the common horse of the Carnatic. 
They are at best but a very degenerate animal, yet a common horse cannot be 
bought under sixty pounds, nor an Arab for double that sum. The oxen of Cey- 
lon are small ; the beef, however, is sometimes good, and is the chief food of 
the European soldiers stationed on the island. Buffaloes are frequently em- 
ployed in drawing burthens, and are found in great numbers on the island, both 
wild and tame. Among the wild animals are deer, elks, gazelles, hares, wild 
hogs, and a small species of tiger. The larger kind, called the royal tiger, is 
not an inhabitant of Ceylon ; but there are tiger cats and leopards. There are 
no foxes ; but jackals, hyenas, and bears, are numerous, besides an infinite va- 
riety of the monkey tribe. 

All the European domestic poultry are natives of Ceylon, as are also pheasants, 
parrots, and parroquets, both wild and tame. Snipes, floricans, storks, cranes, 
herons, water-fowl of all descriptions, pigeons wild and domesticated, and a few 
partridges of the red legged kind. Among the varieties of birds is the honey 
bird, which points out where the bees have deposited their combs. Crows here, 
as in every other part of India, are exceedingly numerous and impudent. There 
are also taylor-birds, two species of fly-catchers, peacocks wild and tame, and 
the common fowl in a wild state. Ceylon teems with reptiles, especially snakes, 
which are a great annoyance to the inhabitants. Covra capellas, or hooded 
snakes, covra manillas, whip and grass snakes, are all poisonous ; the three last 
of a very small size. Water and wood snakes are harmless. The rock snake is 
an immense animal, extending 30 feet in length, but though formidable from 
theifr size, they are perfectly free from poison. They devour some of the smaller 
animals, such as kids, goats, and poultry ; but the stories of their devouring 
larger animals, such as tigers and buffaloes, are altogether fabulous. Alligators 
of a prodigious size infest the rivers of Ceylon, and have been killed 20 feet in 
length, and almost as thick as the body of a horse. There are guanos, toads, 
lizards, blood-suckers, and leeches, as also flying lizards and every species of 

3 a 2 



492 the island 

tropical insect. Fish are caught in great abundance in the lakes and riven of 
Ceylon, as well as in the surrounding ocean. 

The mineral riches of Ceylon have not yet been sufficiently explored, but they 
are knowq to be abundant. A spot near Mature in the bed of a river, and 
another at Sittivacca, about 30 miles from Columbo, are the richest in precious 
stones ; but there is also one in the Pastum Corle, and another in the Corle of 
Suffegam. The most valuable of the Ceylon stones is the oriental sapphire, 
which is found of all varieties and shades of colour. When this gem is of a 
perfect yellow it is called the oriental topaz ; the red, the oriental ruby ; when a 
mixed tinge of red and blue, the oriental amethyst ; and when of an unmixed 
blue, the blue sapphire. The Ceylon cat’s-eye is the finest known, and when 
perfect is valued at a high price. Tourmalines are found of almost every tinge ; 
the chrysoberl is rare ; the amethyst superior to that of the Brazils. Jet and 
chrystal stone also abound, and there are two distinct kinds named cinnamon 
stones. There are a few garnets, mostly procured from the ci-devant Candian 
territories, where the moonstone, a species of opal, is also found. Lead, tin, 
and iron ore, are found in the interior, but they are never wrought or .applied to 
any useful purpose. There were formerly several mines of quicksilver wrought 
by the Dutch, and in 1797, a small one was discovered at Cotta, six miles from 
Columbo, from which six pounds was most seasonably procured for the garrison; 
but it has never since been worked with any view to profit. In the mountainous 
region of Doombera, there is nitre cave in the side of a high hill, surrounded by 
a dense forest. The rock is a mixture of quartz, mica, feltspar, and talc, im- 
pregnated near the surface with nitre, nitrate of lime, and sulphate of magnesia ; 
in one spot with allum, and in another incrusted with hydralite, like the Geysers 
in Iceland. Under the mountains of Doombera, is a wooded plain, containing 
the great lake of Birtanna, which has not yet been explored by any scientific 
European. 

The grand article of importation to Ceylon is rice, the value of which fre- 
quently exceeds half the amount of the whole goods exported, and the importa- 
tion next in consequence is cotton cloth, yet the soil of the island is capable of 
producing a redundant quantity of the finest cotton. Another great object of 
agricultural produce and manufacture is hemp, which is raised abundantly, and 
of an excellent quality ; the sandy soil, of which there is plenty in the old terri- 
tories, being well adapted for the cultivation of the plant. The cultivation of the 
sugar cane has been twice, but unsuccessfully, attempted on a large scale. 
From the toddy of the coco-nut tree arrack is distilled, id the same manner as 
brandy from wine by the assistance of a common a till. From 400 gallons of 



of ceyl6n. 493 

toddy, 50 gallons of arrack are drawn of the same strength as good brandy, 29 
under London proofs which, if rectified, produ'ces half the quantity of strong 
spirit. Compared with the Bengal rum, Ceylon arrack is admitted to be the 
most wholesome spirit, and it is 30 per cent, less in price. The great markets 
for its sate are Madras and Bombay, especially the first. 


Exports from Ceylon for the pear 1813. 




Rix dollars. 

Rix dollars. 

Arrack . . 


. 465,925 

Chayroot 

3,918 

Pepper . . 

t ft • 

. 15,865 

Chanks (shells) . . . 

129,486 

Coffee . . 

• • • 

. 43,370 

Salt fish 

11,584 

Cardamoms 

• • 1 

2,705 

Gingeiee, illepay, margosa 


Betel nut . 

• • t 

. i 42, 534 

seed, and oil ... 

1,091 

Tobacco 

• It 

. 234,408 

Fruits 

11,089 

Coir . . . 

• a • 

. 187,649 

Sundries not enumerated 


Coco nuts . 

• • • 

. 73,401 

above 

117,992 

Coco nut oil 

• • • 

7,952 

Ditto 

15,000 

Copras . . 

• t • 

. 27,975 

Grain 

48,000 

Fine woods « 

• • • 

7,333 

Cinnamon sold to the East 


Planks and timber . 

. 25,550 

India Company . . 

685,714 

Palmira, rafters, &c. . 

. 45,060 

Sundries, coastways . . 

79,934 

Jaggory . . 

Cut betel nut 

• m • 

ft ft ft 

. 39,245 

. 70,548 

Grand total 2,443,940 


Imports to Ceylon in 1813 (a year of scarcity). 

Bice and other grain 3,539,268 rix dollars. 

Ditto imported by the government . . . 744,751 

Cloth 600,888 

Sundries 959,364 

Ditto by the government 534,470 

Grand total 6,378,739 

In 1831, II 4 rix dollars were reckoned equal to the pound sterling, but the 
exchange fluctuates annually. The total tonnage of all descriptions belonging 
to the island was estimated at 8000 tons. 

fhe public revenue of Ceylon may be divided into two branches, viz. one 
derived from certain productions of the island reserved by government and 
other fiscal resources ; the other such imposts, as the land tax, taxes on pro* 
party, taxes on consumption, and capitation taxes. Of the reserved productions, 



THE ISLAND 


494 

ciunamon is the most important, and upon this article the Dutch placed so much 
reliance that they were led to neglect all others, especially agricultural improve* 
meats. At the commencement, the cinnamon crop was collected in the forests 
and jungles, the greater proportion of which then belonged to the king of Candy, 
who occasionally refused to admit the cinnamon peelers into his dominions. A 
computation made by the Dutch rated the annual consumption of cinnamon at 
400,000 pounds, or 5000 bales of 80 pounds each. In 1802, when the manage- 
ment of the island was transferred from the East India Company to the King, it 
was mutually agreed that the Ceylon government should deliver to the Company 
400,000 pounds of cinnamon, for which they granted a credit of £60,000 sterling, 
equal to 3s. per pound, engaging also to account to his Majesty for all clear profits 
on the commodity beyond 5 per cent. In consequence of this arrangement no ^ 
cinnamon can be sold or exported but by the East India Company, with the \ 
exception of what is rejected by their agent, which is sold for the consumption 
of India, and any country lying to the east of the Cape of Good Hope. The 
quantity of the rejected article exported annually amounts to from 30 to 40,000 
pounds, and goes mostly by the way of Manilla to South America, where much 
is consumed by the slaves who work in the mines, each having a certain quan- 
tity allowed him per diem as a preservation against noxious exhalations. In 
1813, it being discovered that the Company had been realizing large profits 
without accounting for the surplus, a demand was made, and the sum of £200,000 
allowed conditionally, after deducting the .deficient weight, the government having 
rarely delivered ^he quantity stipulated. The whole investment expected in 
1816, amounting to 4500 bales, had been cut in the Candian territories subse- 
quent to the conquest, and if wanted, twice the quantity could have been 
collected. 

The following is a statement of the revenue derived from the pearl fishery 
since the year 1796 ; viz. — 


In 1796 £60,000 In 1803 £16,000 

1797 110,000 1804 76,000 

1798. .... 140,000 1806 ., 35,000 

1799 ..... 30,000 189 & ..... 90,000 

1809 25,000 

1814 64,000 


It has been ascertained that the pejurl oyster does not live shave seven or eigh 
years. ' 

The chank or shell fishery is an object of- material importance to the Ceylon 
government, being exported in large quantities principally to Bengal, where the 
shell is sawed into rings of different sizes, and worn as an ornament by Indian 



OF CEYLON. 495 

females on their anas, legs, toes, mid fingers. They are brought up from the 
bottom of the seas round the northern coast of the island, and the privilege of 
procuring them is farmed out annually. Immediately after the conquest in 
1786, this farm yielded only 19,850 rix dollars ; but it has since greatly increased, 
and in 1812 amounted to 50,291 rix dollars. This trade forms the divers for the 
pearl fishery. Chay or madder is monopolized, and is farmed out to individuals 
for about 27,000 rix dollars per annum. The taking of elephants is no longer 
considered so important a fiscal resource as it was in the time of the Dutch, the 
price of the animal having fallen so much in Hindostan as to leave no profit on 
the speculation. No hunts are now undertaken on government account, unless 
the elephants approach the cultivated provinces and commit ravages, on which 
emergencies the caste of elephant hunters have been allowed to catch the in- 
truders at their own expense and risk. In 1701, the Dutch government cleared 
63,345 pagodas from this source, but towards the close of their administration 
they acknowledged that a loss resulted. Shark fins, and bichc de mar, or sea 
urchin, are procured in the adjacent seas, the latter especially abounding in the 
shallow water along the coast of Jafnapatam. 

The government share of the crop differs so much as from one-tenth to one- 
half, and is received in kind. On landB situated in the Ceylonese districts, and 
subject to a higher proportion than one-tenth, it is taken after deducting the 
seed.; but those liable to one-tenth or upwards, without that deduction. The 
latter is also the share received by the sovereign from all the grain fields in the 
Malabar districts, where one-tenth is universally paid. A portion of the land 
tax is collected through the medium of government officers ; the rest is farmed 
out to renters, who give security for the payment Of the amount, and the per- 
formance of the conditions attached. The chief renters most frequently sub- 
divide the collections among a number of inferior renters, each responsible 
for his share, so that the system is infinitely extended and complicated. The 
land revenue of the year, commencing on' the 1st of May, 1812, was as folloWs : 

Rix dollars. 

Revenue collected by the officers pt government on rice fields? . 230,178 


Ditto on all other grains 044 

Farmed out to renters on rice fields 288,491 

Ditto on all other grains 48,861 


Total 513^174 


So grants of' land are permitted to be made by government to British subjects, 
or to European settlers on the island. The purchase of them by these classes is 



4 96 THE ISLAND 

ajao forbidden; but this prohibition does not extend to the town, fort, and 
district of Columbo. 

Salt as an item of revenue is one of the most productive, and promises to 
yield a Considerable augmentation. The great leways on the south-east side 
of Ceylon, in the districts named Mangampattoo, belong immediately to go- 
vernment, and consist of natural saline pools of great extent; the largest 
three miles in circumference, and situated near the sea beach, stretching 
from Hambangtotte towards the Batticalo division. There are other ponds 
of various dimensions ; but the two nearest to Hambangtotte, in favourable 
years, when the process of crystallization is not interrupted by the rains, are I 
generally found sufficient to supply the whole island. The formation of salt in ' 
the Mangampattoo leways takes place from July to the end of September. 
Salt is also found throughout the northern districts of Ceylon in natural ponds, 
and much is purchased from the natives near Trincomalee by government at 
regulated prices. Upon an average the cost of the salt to the government is 
equal to 35 per cent, of the price at which it is sold. In 1797 this branch of 
revenue was qnly estimated at 68,000 rix dollars ; in 1812 it yielded 305,695 rix 
dollars. The total amount of the public annual revenue of every description 
from 1809 to 1812, was as follows: — 

In 1809. . . 3,000,210 In 1811 . . . 2,926,228 

1810. . . 2,687,065 1812 . . . 3,028,446— £263,343. 

Considering that in 1809 there was a pearl fishery which yielded 249,288 rix 
dollars, and that there was none in the subsequent years, the receipts appeared 
to have been annually increasing, and no new taxes had been imposed within 
the period stated. 

In 1812, the total expenses amounted 1,665,730 rix dollars. 

Paid in the same year by the military Paymaster-General 1,733,996 

Total 3,399,726 
Deduct the revenue 3,028,446 

Deficit 371,280 

The establishment of civil servants, 40 in number, fill a gradation of offices to 
which salaries are attached of from £500 to £3000 per annum, and after a resi- 
dential service of 12 years they are entitled to retire on pensions of from £400 
to £700 per anuum. The civil fund from whence the latter are defrayed is col- 
lected by levying 10 per cent, on all salaries, to which the government add a, 
certain sum to compensate for any deficiency. Prior to 181 1* the rix dollar was 
rated by government, in paying their servants, at 2s. lid. but it was than re- 



OF CEYLON. 497 

duced to Is. 9d. The King’s pay to the European troops (in 1812, amounting 
to £44,000), and the government contribution to the civil fund, are defrayed by 
the British treasury at home. 

General Statement of the Ceylon revenue for 1812: — 

Cinnamon contract with the East India Company 562,000 rix dollars. 


Ditto, rejected and sold to merchants . . . 103,854 

Pearl fishery 

Chank or shell ditto 50,291 

Chay root or madder 42,464 

Elephants sold 1,521 

Lands and houses sold 4,608 

Stud in the islands of Delft and Two Brothers . 12,623 

Government Gazette 2,790 


Total 780,642 

Second branch , derived from Taxation , viz . : — 

Land rents 339,867 

Outstanding balances 317,588 

Judicial receipts, including stamps .... 151,868 

Fines and forfeitures 9,249 

Per-centage on public auctions 2,293 

Land customs 100,522 

Licences 144,924 

Fish rents 144,778 

Sea customs : . . 513,185 

Salt 305,695 

Marine department 19,659 

Post office 13,324 

Premium on the sale of government bills . . 162,409 

Tax on wearing trinkets 22,443 


2,247,804 


Grand total 3,028,446 

Manty years ago, Ceylon was divided into a number of distinct petty states, 
separftted by rivers and mountains, and each subject to its own independent 
chief; but in process of time the whole country was subdued by the Kings of 
Candy, ahd subdivided into a few great provinces, such as Candy, Coitou, Ma- 
turn, Dathb&dar, and Sittivacca, which last formerly included the rich cinnamon 
districts on the south-west coast. These provinces were again subdivided into 

VOL. II. 3 s 



THE ISLAND 


districts or corles, an arrangement continued until many of the latter were 
wrested from the natives by the Dutch. After that event, the political divisions 
of the island were reduced to two ; the belt of sea coast possessed by the Eu- 
ropean invaders, and the central regions of the interior attached to the throne of 
Candy, under which head further details will be found. Within the territories 
acquired by conquest from the Dutch, the King of Great Britain, or his repre- 
sentative, the government of Ceylon, is supposed to be the proprietor of the 
soil. Some portions are inherited by the descendants of the holders, but much 
the larger share is only held at the pleasure of government upon service-tenure, 
or so long as there is male issue in the family, or near relations able to perforn^ 
the services for which the occupiers of the land are liable. Much of the land ik 
charged with a rent payable to government of one quarter, one-third, and even\ 
one half of the produce ; the rest pays only one-tenth : the rates in certain cases \ 
being proportioned to the quality of the soil and its powers of production. 

The ancient population of Ceylon cannot now be satisfactorily ascertained, 
but there is no reason to suppose it ever was so great as at preset although 
some large ruins indicate that particular tracts were formerly more thickly in- 
habited than they now are. Of this class are the ruins of a large town to be 
seen near Mantotte, and contiguous to them is the Giant s Tank, which if in good 
repair would hold water sufficient to supply an immense extent of country, the 
circumference of its basin, as far as can now be traced, exceeding seventeen 
miles. There are also some remarkable works constructed round the lake of 
Candely, 16 miles from Trincomalee. This lake, near 15 miles around, is em- 
banked in several places with a wall of huge stones, each from 12 to 14 feet 
long, and of a proportionate breadth and thickness, placed skillfully one over 
the other so as to form a parapet of great strength ; one section of the mound 
by uniting two hills retains the water within the bed of the lake. In 1806, Mr. 
Bertolacci estimated the inhabitants of the British territories at 700,000 souls, 
and they have since increased so rapidly, partly owing to the introduction of 
vaccination, as to press hard on the means of subsistence. In consequence of 
the dependance of Ceylon for food on foreign supplies, it suffers severely, not" 
only from the failure of its crops, but also from any tendency to famine on the 
coast of Coromandel or in Bengal. Within the Candian dominions the .popu- 
lation is considerable in the cultivated tracts ; but with the exception of the 
country immediately adjacent to the town of Candy, and the districts of Ouva 
and Mattele, seven-eighths of the interior of Ceylon is covered with wood and 
jungle, and consequently much more thinly peopled than the xparitiiQe coast. 
The wannyships of Soerlie and Nogerlie, and the whole of the great forest oc- 
cupied by the Bedahs, from Nagame in the south, to the Coklay river at the 



OF CEYLON, 


499 

northern side, does not contain 10,000 inhabitants. Under these circumstances, 
if we allow 1,200,000 inhabitants to the whole island, we probably exceed the 
reality ; yet the number is less by 250,000 than has been found by investigation 
within the small Bengal district of Burdwan, which comprehends an area of only 
2400 square miles. 

About the middle of the 18th century, the supreme government of the Dutch 
in India promulgated a system of laws for the administration of justice in their 
respective settlements, known as the “ Statutes of Batavia.” — These statutes, by 
altering and modifying the jurisprudence of Holland, endeavoured to reconcile 
the domination of the Dutch East India Company to the temper and habits of the 
natives; and although they never obtained the sanction of the law from the supe- 
rior tribunals of the republic, their local utility has caused them to be adopted in 
all the colonies, and they still, to a certain degree, regulate the functions and 
duties of the different courts of justice and police throughout Ceylon. At the 
period above alluded to, the government, with respect to its judicial power, was 
divided into three departments ; those of Columbo, Jafnapatam, and Point de 
Galle, and an inferior one at Trincomalee. Appeals lay from the two last courts 
to Columbo, and civil cases, above a certain sum, to Batavia. The country de- 
pendant on Columbo was then subdivided into eight corles, each under the 
jurisdiction of a Modellier or native magistrate whose office was hereditary, and 
religion the Protestant. The fourth person in rank was the civil native func- 
tionary, named the Dessau ve. From the arrival of the Earl of Guildford in 
October, 1798, until the end of January, 1802, the administration of justice was 
conducted under his own superintendance; but in 1802 a supreme court of ju- 
dicature was established, consisting of a chief justice and one puisne judge. 
Annexed to it are his Majesty’s advocate fiscal, registrar, a sheriff or fiscal, and 
a competent number of clerks. In 1804, two Dutch gentlemen, who had ac- 
quired a perfect knowledge of the English language, were the only persons who 
acted as advocates and proctors. Three subordinate courts are established at 
Columbo for the trial of petty suits and offences, which are daily crowded with 
complaints, the natives being (like the Bengalese) particularly fond of litigation, 
and delighted by having their trifling disputes investigated and determined by a 
superior power. The supreme council is composed of the governor, the chief 
justice, the commander of the forces (who is also lieutenant-governor), and the 
chief secretary. 

The native functionaries assist in collecting the revenue, settling the proportion 
of taxes and contributions, furnish provisions for the garrison, and superintend 
the proceedings of the cultivators and natives in general. Besides the native 
Ceylonese who live under the British government, the sea coasts are inhabited 

3 s 2 



THE ISLAND 


500 

by Dutch, Portugueze, and Malays, and settlers from the different Indian na- 
tions. In 1805, the European Dutch in Ceylon amounted to about 900, chiefly 
composed of civil and military officers and their families* and, with a few ex- 
ceptions, all by the course of events reduced to a state of great indigence. The 
native bom Dutch are more numerous, and have adopted many of *the native 
habits, retaining however the predilection of their forefathers for gin and to- 
bacco. The females who have a mixture of native blood are easily distinguished 
by a tinge on the colour of their skin, and their thick, strong, black hair ; marks 
that are never wholly removed, and which in the course of succeeding genera* 
tions return periodically with renewed strength, after having apparently faded 
away almost to evanescence. The Portugueze of Ceylon are the spurious de-\ 
scendants of the several European possessors of the maritime parts by native Cey- \ 
lonese, and other tribes. A complexion darker than the original natives, with 
a particular mode of dress, half Indian and half European, is all that is necessary 
to procure the appellation of Portugueze. Although they universally profess 
the Christian doctrines, and are commonly Roman Catholics, yet they retain 
many Pagan customs, and their religion may be considered as a compound of 
both. The men are about the middle size, slender, lank, and ill made, yet it was 
from this class that the Topass soldiers were formerly taken. They were never 
accounted good troops, being neither so hardy nor so brave as the Sepoys, and 
have been seldom employed in the English service. The French, however, very 
generally had corps of them at Pondicherry and their other settlements. 
Slavery is still acknowledged and sanctioned by law, in consequence of the 
capitulation of Columbo in 1796, by the terms of which, although the impor. 
tation of slaves is forbidden, and the purchase of one by a British inhabitant 
renders him free, yet all those who were slaves to the Dutch or natives before 
the surrender, were considered in the light of private property, and allowed to 
remain in their prior condition. The Malays were formerly more numerous than 
they are at present, no fresh importations having taken place. They all profess 
the Mahommedan religion, and the Dutch had always one or more regiments of 
that nation, armed and clothed like Europeans, except that they wore sandals 
instead of shoes. 

The great body of the natives may be divided into three general classes, each 
nearly equal in number ; the Cingalese (or Ceylonese), Candians, and Malabars. 
The first occupy the coasts of the southern half of the island, from Dondra 
Head to the confines of Batticalo on the east, and to the river Chilaw on the west. 
The coasts further north are occupied by the Malabars, while the Candians are 
enclosed in the central regions. The genuine Ceylonese are of middling stature, 
slender figure, and fairer in complexion than the Malabars and Tamuls of the 



OF CEYLON. 


501 

continent, but not so strong. The Candians are fairer and stouter, and much 
less effeminate than the Ceylonese, who are' a timid, indolent, and unwarlike 
race. An attempt was made soon after the conquest to train a body of them to 
the use of arms, but it so completely failed of success, that recourse was had for 
recruits to the coast of Coromandel. In those regiments, called, in the military 
returns laid before Parliament, the Ceylon native infantry, there is scarcely to be 
found one native of the island. In their own societies the Ceylonese are di- 
vided into 19 distinct castes, the first in rank being the Hondrews or Vellalas ; 
but the whole are remarkably scrupulous in maintaining the relative dignity of 
their tribe. The highest class of native servants are Moodelliers, one of whom, 
under the controul of a British functionary, is placed at the head of every de- 
partment of government; and subordinate to the Moodelliers are a long train of 
mahutiars or secretaries, mahondirams, who may be denominated lieutenants, 
aratchies or seijeants, canganies or corporals, and lascoreens or common police 
soldiers. All ranks are distractedly fond of shew and parade, and willingly pay 
a large sum to government for permission to make a pompous procession, yet in 
their manners still retain a great share of gravity, that invariable characteristic 
of the savage state. 

The Moodelliers and highest orders of the Ceylonese have adopted many 
European customs, and as they are not, like the Hindoos of the continent, re- 
strained by the prejudices of caste, they have no objection to sit and eat in the 
company of a respectable European. Differing from all the other nations of 
India, the higher classes of Ceylonese profess Christianity, perforin their 
marriage ceremonies according to the forms of the church of Holland, and re- 
strict themselves to one wife. A considerable number of the lower orders con- 
tinue votaries of Buddha, but many have been converted to the faith of Mahom- 
med. The Buddhist temples are mostly small insignificant buildings of modem 
construction, with plain stone walls and tiled roofs, and no particular caste is 
Set apart for the performance of religious rites. It may be safely asserted that 
one half of the whole Ceylonese (not including the Candians) openly profess 
Christianity, one portion according to the doctrines of the reformed church of 
Holland, and the other following those of the church of Rome ; but both equally 
ill instructed and ignorant. The Ceylonese have a language and written cha- 
racter of their own, and there are persons among them who annually publish 
almanacks, containing the usual series of predictions. Owing, however, to the 
mixed composition of the society, it is necessary that all public proclamations 
be issued in the Ceylonese, Malabar, Dutch, and English languages. At Co- 
lumbo there is an academy established for the instruction of Ceylonese, Mala- 
bars, and Europeans, where they are taught English and other languages. Many 



THE ISLAND 


502 

of the first now write and speak English fluently. In 1801, the number of 
parish schools on the island amounted to 170, and the number of native Pro- 
testant Christians exceeded 342,000, — more than half are Roman Catholics. 
The Birmans of Ava acknowledge the superior antiquity of the Ceylonese, and 
the reception of their laws and religion from their island. The king of Ava has 
within the last 40 years, at separate times, sent two messengers, persons of 
learning and respectability, to Ceylon, to procure the original books (if any 
such existed) on which the Buddhist tenets are founded. In one instance the 
Birman minister made application to the Governor General of India to protect 
and assist the envoys charged with the commission. 

The proper name of this island is Singhala, from which the term Ceylon is 
probably derived ; by the Hindoos on the Continent it is named Lanca, and by 
the Mahommedans Serindib. It is also frequently named Taprobane ; a name 
which perhaps originates from Tapoo Ravana, or the island of Ravan, a demon 
and sovereign in the remote times of Hindoo antiquity. The strange mythological 
poem, named the Ramayuna, narrates the conquest of Ceylon and destructior 
of Ravan, by Rama, king of Oude, assisted by an army of gigantic monkies, 
which appears to indicate an existing connexion between this island and the 
northern quarters of Hindostan. The first meridian of the Hindoos passes 
through the city of Oojein in Malwah, of which we know the position ; but as 
according to that projection, Lanca falls to the west of the present island, the 
Hindoos are of opinion that Ceylon had formerly a much greater extent, and 
appearances between it and the Maldives tend to justify the belief. The name 
of the river Mahavilly Gunga has probably originated from Bali, a hero famous 
in Hindoo romance ; from whom the celebrated ruins at Mahavalipuram on the 
coast of Coromandel are also designated. 

Prior to the arrival of the Portugueze in 1505, little is known of the history of 
Cevlon, and that little apocryphal. According to Ceylonese tradition, Prince 
Wijaya, the oldest son of the Emperor Singha Bahu (lion-armed),, who reigned 
over the kingdom of Lain in Jambhu Dwipi (India), having embarked from the 
city of Singhapoor, his father s capital, accompanied by 700 martial adherents* 
landed in Ceylon on a Tuesday, at the time of full moon, in the month of May, 
543 years before the Christian era, and was appointed king of the island by 
Buddha, who had for that purpose transported himself to It through the rtir. On 
his Arrival he found the country much infested by devils, who it appears render 
voused in a large forest of Nha trees, whence Buddha compelled them to eva- 
cuate, and remove to an island named Giridiwa, which he had summoned for tlieir 
reception from Jambhu Dwipa, and this being accomp ished, he remanded , the 
island with its cargo back to its original position. Prior to this event Ceylon vas 



OF CEYLOxN. 


503 

destitute of human occupants, Buddha therefore preached to the demigods who 
had assembled round him, and having established the ordinances of his religion, 
and rendered Ceylon a fit habitation for human beings, he returned to Jambhu 
Dwipa. In this manner, by the instrumentality of Buddha, and the assistance 
of the inferior deities, Prince Wijaya, descended from the family of the sun, was 
the first king who reigned over Ceylon, which he continued to do for the period 
of 38 years. From the commencement of his reign to that of King Kerli Sri, 
who filled the throne in 1769, corresponding with the Buddhist year 2312, Cey- 
lon (according to the Cingalese priests) has been governed by a succession of 
179 kings, whose good and evil deeds have perished with them. 

When the Portugueze commander, Almeida, arrived in A. D. 1505, he found 
that the population of Ceylon consisted of two distinct races ; the savage 
Bedahs, who then, as now, occupied the recesses of the forest, more especially 
towards the north ; the rest of the country was in possession of the Cingalese, 
whose most powerful chief held his court at Columbo. Almeida found the island 
already harassed by foreigners, the Arabs, and he persuaded the Cingalese king 
to pay him tribute on condition of assisting him against these intruders. JNie 1 
first tribute paid to the Portugueze was 250,000 pounds of cinnamon; but their 
bigotry and avarice involved them in incessant wars with the natives. In 1603, 
the Dutch, who were ultimately destined to expel the Portugueze and oppress 
the Ceylonese with a still heavier yoke, appeared. In 1632 they sent a strong 
armament to act in concert with the King of Candy against the Portugueze, 
whom, in 1656, after a long and sanguinary struggle, they completely subdued. 
In that year Columbo surrendered, after having sustained a siege of seven 
months. From that period a new series of wars began between the Hollanders 
and the Candian monarch, in which the latter was repeatedly driven from his 
capital, and forced to seek refuge in the mountains of Digliggy, the highest 
and most inaccessible of the island. The difficulties of the interior, however, 
were such, and the climate so deadly, that the Dutch never could retain perma- 
nent possession of any conquest remote from the sea coast. The last great war 
carried on with the natives was in 1764, when they penetrated into the heart of 
the king’s dominions and took Candy. They were, however, ere long, compelled 
to retreat, and had 400 of their best soldiers made prisoners and put to death 
near Sittfvacca, only two days march from from Columbo. By perseverance, and 
the power they possessed of withholding the supply of salt, they compelled the 
king to a peace in 1766, by the conditions of which he relinquished all his 
remaining possessions on the sea coast, and became enclosed in the central pro- 
vinces* for which he engaged to pay a tribute in their productions. In return 



504 THE ISLAND [columbo. 

for these valuable cessions the Dutch acknowledged the Candian .sovereign Em- 
peror of Ceylon, to which they added many other magnificent appellations* 
Tranquillity, however, could not be secured by so unequal a treaty, and the 
Candjans frequently endeavoured by force of arms, though unavailingly, to pro- 
cure better terms. Such was the state of affairs between the Dutch and Candians 
in 1782, when a British fleet captured Trincomalee after a slight resistance, but 
it was shortly after with equal ease retaken by a French squadron under Admiral 
Suffrein. Negociations were then opened by the Madras government with the 
court of Candy, but no event of importance resulted, and the maritime pro- 
vinces of Ceylon continued in the tranquil possession of the Dutch until the 
breaking out of the revolutionary war in 1793. In 1796 a British Beet and army 
were dispatched against them, and their conquest effected. At the peace of 
Amiens they were conclusively ceded by the Dutch, and in 1802 were constiA 
tuted a royal government, under the immedis :e direction of the crown, which 
appoints the officers and regulates the internal management. The subsequent 
historical details belong to the kingdom of Candy, under which head they will 
be noticed ; but belore concluding this article it may be remarked, that although 
Ceylon, since its final acquisition, has been ruled by a succession of able and 
zealous governors (the Earl of Guildford, Sir Thomas Maitland, and General 
Brownrigg), owing to the turbulence of the Candians, and the expensive nature 
of its civil and military establishment, it has hitherto rather proved a burthen 
than a benefit to the British nation . — ( Bertolucci , Pcrcival, Cordiner, Knox , Dr. 
Davy , Syntes , C. Buchanan , Sir William Jones , 8gc. 8$c. fyc.) 

Columbo. — The modem capital of Ceylon, is situated on the south-west coast. 
Lat. 6° 55' N. long. 79° 45' E. The fort is built on a peninsula projecting junto 
the sea, and measures one mile and a quarter in circumference. It consists of 
seven principal bastions of different sizes, connected by intervening curtains, 
and defended by 300 pieces of heavy cannon. The site is all but insulated, the 
sea reaching up to two- thirds of the works, and the rest (excepting two very 
narrow causeways) being protected by an extensive lake of fresh water. On* 
the south side the surf runs so high, and the shore is so rocky, that it would be 
dangerous to approach it, and on the west side, where the sea is smoother, it Is 
defended by strong batteries. Four of the bastions look towards the sea; the 
other three face the lake, and command the causeways leading to the fort. A pro- 
jecting rock, on which two batteries are placed, affords shelter to a small semi- 
circular bay on the north side of tne fort, which id, however, on account of a 
sand bar, only resorted to by small craft. The outer road affords secure anchorage 
from the beginning of October to the end of March, when, the wind blows off 



columbo.] OF CEYLON. 505 

the land from the north-east ; during the other six months, the south-west wind 
blows on the shore, and the coast (for there is, strictly speaking, no harbour) is 
not practicable. 

The plan of the city of Columbo is regular, and nearly divided into four 
quarters by two principal streets, which cross each other, and extend the whole 
length of the towh. To these, smaller ones run parallel, with connecting lanes 
between them, and at the foot of the rampart in the inside is a broad street or 
way carried entirely round the fort. The houses are built of stone, clay, and 
lime, and the whole city has more of the European style and appearance than 
any other in India. The houses are seldom above one story high, and all had 
glass windows until the arrival of the English, who substituted Venetian blinds. 
The natives of Holland have always been solicitous to exclude the wind, and pre- 
ferred having their houses shut up both in the hot and cold season ; while the 
British wish to have them open, in order to admit a free circulacion of air. Be- 
fore each house is a large open veranda, supported by wooden pillars, to protect 
the rooms from the sun. The government house fronts the sea on the north 
side of the fort, and is a handsome building of two stories, but in 1804 was so 
much out of repair as to admit the rain. The church of Wolfendal, where the 
Dutch inhabitants attend public worship, stands on the summit of a rising 
ground, in the suburbs about a mile and a half from the fort. It was built for 
the use of the Malabar and Cingalese Christians, who still meet there every 
Sunday, each congregation assembling at a different hour. 

The portion of Columbo situated beyond the walls, consists of a mud village 
and bazar, on a space called Slave Island, (in reality a peninsula projecting into 
the lake), so named from its having formerly been occupied by the slaves em- 
ployed under the Dutch government. The pettah, or outer town, stands a few 
hundred yards to the eastward of the fort, on which it encroaches, and contains 
more houses than are within the fortifications. It is of a square form, and 
stretching from it are many straggling streets that extend several miles into the 
country. The fort is chiefly occupied by the English inhabitants; the pettah 
by the Dutch and Portugueze ; and the suburbs, which contain much the greater 
portion of the population, by the native Ceylonese. One street, in an extensive 
village beyond the pettah of Columbo, is entirely inhabited by persons of the 
Mahommedan religion (here named Lubbies), who follow the occupations of 
pedlers, tailors, fishe 'men,* and sailors. The aggregate of all descriptions, in 
1804, were estimated at 50,000 inhabitants, and have probably since received a 
considerable^augmentation. The water within the fort is of a brackish taste ; 
that used by the European establishment is brought from the distance of a mile 
anda half. In the vicinity there is a great variety of hill and dale, and few situ- 
V0JU n. 3 T 



THE ISLAND 


506 


[C0LVMB0, 


ations afford a greater number of pleasant paths for recreation on horseback. 
The climate of Columbo is reckoned very salubrious, and it is said that for five 
years prior to 1805, funerals were rare, except when a distemper had been caught 
in the interior and brought down to Columbo. Out of 1000 British soldiers then 
in garrison, it often happened that there was not one casualty by sickness in the 
course of two months, which appears extraordinary, considering what a charnel- 
house the interior has been. Farenheit’s thermometer ranges about 80°; and 
even in the full blaze of a meridian sun, owing to the fresh sea breezes, Europeans 
find it pleasant to walk about and drive out in open carriages. Indeed the cli- { 
mate and scenery of Columbo present a striking contrast to the arid plains, l 
withered vegetation, scorching winds* and burning dust of Madras. \ 

Columbo is the head quarters of the army in Ceylon, and a Major General com- \ 
mands the forces. The usual garrison of Columbo, during the revolutionary war, 
was one regiment of British soldiers, one regiment of sepoys, or Malays, one 
company of artillery with their complement of gun Lascars, and a small corps of 
native pioneers. For the first few years after the conquest, all the English fa- 
milies lived within the fort, but they are now dispersed over the vicinity. The 
greater part having come directly from Great Britain, the society exhibits less 
of Indian manners and local customs than probably any other in the east, and the 
heat is not such as to render a palanquin indispensable. In 1805, the English 
circle at Columbo mustered 100 gentlemen and 20 ladies, but the other respect- 
able European families amounted to nearly 600 of both sexes. Very little inter- 
course, however, then subsisted between the two classes. The expense of living 
at Columbo, and in Ceylon generally, is probably greater than at any other of 
the British settlements, the necessary articles of food being scarce, and servants’ 
wages high. A great proportion of the latter are natives of the .Carnatic, and 
the Dutch settlers employ only slaves as domestics. In 1805, the rent of the 
most magnificent mansion in Columbo was £300 per annum ; but a good family 
house might be had for £100. Ten palanquin bearers cost about £130, and. the 
keep of a horse (which in Bengal costs about £12) £50 per annum. According 
to printed narratives, no batchelor can keep a house comfortably for less than 
£800 ; a captain finds it difficult to live on £500 a year, his pay ; and a subaltern 
with £300 per annum cannot avoid running in debt. What becomes of those 
who have less is not mentioned. Although provisions are dear the English tables 
groan under a load of meat ; Madeira is 36*. and claret £4 per dozen. There is 
a profusion of cheap and delicious fruits, but they are soon rejected for hams, 
cheeses, pickles and preserves. 

Although Trincomalee, on account of its harbour and situation, be of more in- 
trinsic importance to the nation, yet Columbo is in every other respect the 



OF CEYLON. 


CANDY*] 


507 


superior, being placed in the centre of the cinnamon country, and possessing a 
much more numerous population. The harbour is unfortunately nothing more 
than an open roadsted, and owing to the course of the monsoons, the inhabitants 
for a considerable portion of the year are cut off from all maritime intercourse 
with the rest of the island. The internal navigation, however, in a lateral di- 
rection along the coast is excellent, and on the rivers and water courses several 
hundred flat-bottomed boats are seen, with entire families, who reside perma- 
nently on board and have no other dwellings. Nearly all the foreign commerce 
of Ceylon is concentrated at this port, as is also a great proportion of the coast- 
ing traffic. In 1656 the town and fortress of Columbo were taken from the 
Portugueze by the Dutch, in whose possession it remained until 1796, when it 
was captured by the British, and subsequently ceded at the peace of Amiens. 
The city was singularly unfortunate in losing its three first governors after the 
conquest in one year. Colonel Petrie and General Doyle died, and Colonel 
Bonnevaux, of the Company’s service, was killed by the upsetting of his curricle. 
Letters from Columbo to Madras (a distance of 500 miles), are generally con- 
veyed in ten, but an express has been frequently accomplished in eight days, — 
( Cordiner , Per rival, Milburn , fyc. 8$c.) 


THE KINGDOM OF CANDY. 

The central and mountainous provinces of the Island of Ceylon, until A. D. 
1815, formed the dominions of the King of Candy. The rugged and inaccessible 
nature of the territory, the insalubrity of the climate and hostility of the Can- 
dians, have, until very recently, prevented any accurate survey, even of the tracts 
under the immediate controul of the British government, and since the final con- 
quest in 1815, and subsequent rebellion, no work of authenticity on the subject 
has appeared. The passes on the western side, which lead through the moun- 
tains to the interior, are steep and difficult, and scarcely known even to the 
natives. After ascending the mountains and penetrating through the boundary 
forests, the country presents few marks of cultivation; and proceeding onward to 
the centre the elevation increases, and the woods and mountains that separate 
the different districts become more steep and impervious. It was in the midst of 
these fastnesses that the native dynasty so long preserved its independance 
against a succession of foreign invaders, and retained possession, under a species 
of feudal constitution, of above two-thirds of the whole island. The ascent on 
the western side is more gradual, and the surface less covered with jungle, stag- 
nate water, and putrid vegetation ; it has consequently been found from expe- 
rience to be much less destructive to the health of European troops than the in- 
terior from the western coast. 


3 T 2 



508 THE ISLAND [caim*. 

It would be superfluous to detail the former subdivisions of this territory, the 
whole being now comprehended under one sovereign, although the provinces 
preserve their native appellations, and the districts those of Cories. According 
to the historical relation of Robert Knox (still the most authentic account of the 
interior, although published in 1681 ), the highest and most central portion of the 
Candian territory consists of the corles of Oudanour and Tatanour, in which, 
during his captivity, the two principal cities were situated. These districts, 
distinguished by the name of Conde Udda, are pre-eminent above the rest for 
elevation and natural difficulties of access, the paths being little more than the, 
tracts of wild beasts or of equally savage Bedahs, and, where practicable, they 
were always guarded against the entrance of strangers with the most scrupulous 
vigilance. Indeed, the whole of the Candian territories, with the exception of the 
plains round Anurodburro, present a constant interchange of steep mountains and 
deep vallies. The excessive thickness of the woods that cover the face of the 
country causes heavy fogs and unwholesome damps to prevail. Every evening 
the fogs fall with the close of the day, and are not again dissipated until the sun 
has acquired great strength. The vallies are in general marshy, full of springs, 
and excellently adapted for the rearing of cattle, and the cultivation of rice. The 
highest range of mountains that extends across the Candian territory seems to 
divide the island into two different climates by breaking the force and regu- 
larity of the monsoons. As may be inferred from the nature of its surface, the 
central region is ill adapted for internal navigation ; for although many rivers, of 
rather mountain torrents, intersect it, they are, during the rains (with the excep 
tion of the Mahavali Gunga), so rapid in their course and rocky in their channel 
as not to admit the passage of boats, while in the opposite season they are mostly 
dried up. 

There is every reason to believe that the Candians and Cingalese (or 
Ceylonese) were originally one people, differing only in local and political cir- 
cumstances, the first having always been secluded among the woody mountains, 
and interdicted all intercourse with strangers, while the other was overspread 
with colonies from distant and hostile nations. In language, religion, and modes 
of life, they are essentially the same ; but the Candians are fairer, stouter, less 
polished in their manners, and owing to their wearing a beard, of a more ferocious 
aspect. The upper classes have been long distinguished even among Indian 
nations for cruelty and perfidy, and the lower orders have been sufficiently prone 
to imitate their superiors ; yet there is scarcely a doubt that the mild system of 
government and equal distribution of justice they are now likely to experience, 
will gradually render them as inoffensive as their brethren on the coa coast. 
Until 1815 , the intercourse between the two classes was almost as completely 



OF CEYLON. 


CAKDT.] 


509 


cut off as between the most savage and hostile tribes of North America. While 
the royal form of government lasted, the king was the sole proprietor of all the 
lands occupied by his subjects, whose dependance was of 'the most abject descrip- 
tion, although the monarchy was in some respects elective. The king of Candy, 
in 1800, was a native of the Carnatic by a female branch, but by no means the 
nearest heir, having been brought in by the influence of the prime minister, or 
chief Adigar. In theory the constitution was the purest despotism, but in prac- 
tice an aristocracy, the combination of a few chiefs generally settling the succes- 
sion. By the lower classes the king was looked up to as a deity, and worshipped 
with the humblest adulation, although most of them appear to have been despica- 
ble tyrants. The nobility and courtiers do not seem to have been at all deficient 
in acuteness or capacity for business, in the conducting of which they always 
displayed such a proneness to intrigue, falsehood, cunning, and political finesse, 
as to render treaties or engagements with them a mere waste of time and paper, 
and the court itself a perfect hotbed of faction, conspiracy, and rebellion. The 
court of Candy has likewise been always remarkable for its adhesion to tedious 
forms and punctilious ceremonies. In 1782, Mr. Boyd went as ambassador to 
Candy from Trincoinalee. On his arrival within 20 miles of that place, he was 
desired by the Candians to go round about to the Columbo road, and make his 
approach from thence, as they would not otherwise have exact precedents for the 
ceremonies to be performed. 

When the Portugueze arrived in Ceylon, they are said to have found itoccu- 
pied by only two classes of inhabitants, the Bedahs in the north-east, and the 
Cingalese in the south-west ; but it is probable, that even then the Carnatic 
races had obtained a footing, as there is no tradition extant that the Cingalese 
ever inhabited the parts about Jafnapatam. The most singular portion of the 
Ceylon population are the Bedahs or Vaddahs, who inhabit the distant recesses 
of the forest. Their origin has never been traced, and they appear to differ so 
much from the other natives that they probably are the true aborigines. They 
are scattered over the woods in different parts of the island, but are most 
numerous in the province of Bintan, which lies to the north-east of Candy, in the 
direction of Trincomalee and Batticalo, and are there more completely in the 
savage state than anywhere else. They subsist by limiting deer and other wild 
animals* and on the fruits, which grow spontaneously around them ; but they 
never cultivate the ground in any manner. They sleep on trees or at the foot of 
them, and climb up like monkies when alarmed. A few of the less wild traffic 
with the Candians, giving ivory, honey, wax, and deer, in exchange for cloth,, 
iron, and knives ; but the untamed race, known by the name of Rambah Bedahs, 
are more seldom seen, even by stealth, than the most timid of the wild animals. 



THE ISLAND 


510 


[C ANDT. 


Another tribe of a similar description formerly existed in the province of Wanny, 
bordering on that of Jafnapatam, who are now in some degree civilized, and, ex- 
cept in times of rebellion, live in subjection to the British government. Their 
language is said to be the Tamul, and their religion the Brahminical. The Can- 
dians, like the unconverted Cingalese, are votaries of Buddha. In 1811, when 
Captain Canning was at Rangoon, a sacerdotal mission to the Birman sovereign 
of Ava arrived there from Candy, both nations professing the same doctrines, 
yfet the king of the country last mentioned was himself (as his ancestors had 
always been) of the Brahminical persuasion. j 

Although the Candian nation was governed in the most arbitrary manner, yet 
its customs and prejudices were shared and respected by their monarchs, anq. 
they were proud of being exempt from a foreign yoke. In the number and exA 
travagance of their titles the kings of Candy yielded to no eastern potentate, \ 
and, like the emperors of China, they were viewed by their subjects with a mys- 
terious reverence. There were generally two adigars, or ministers, and it was 
part of the state policy to appoint them from opposite factions. The next in rank 
to the adigars were the dessauves, or superintendants of corles, and also the prin- 
cipal military commanders. The standing army, if it deserved the name, con- 
sisted only of a few hundred men stationed near the king’s person. The greatest 
proportion of the king’s revenues consisted of presents or contributions of 
money, precious stones, ivory, cloth, corn, fruit, honey, wax, arms, &c. irregu- 
larly exacted by his officers two or three times a year. In most parts of the Indian 
continent rice forms the main article of food, but it is not so in the Candian terri- 
tories, where that grain is reserved for the highest classes, and is a luxury the 
poorer orders seldom enjoy. Their usual subsistence consists of the smaller 
grains raised among the hills with little labour, by the assistance of irrigation. 
Besides these grains, they use a root dug up from the bottom of tanks, and a de- 
coction from the bark of particular trees found in their forests. Two or three 
coco nuts, a few cakes made from the grains above described, and a small quan- 
tity of rice, compose the whole of a Candian soldier’s stock for his campaign of 
15 days. Thus equipped, the Candian soldier crawls through the woods to gain 
a commanding point near a pass, where he places himself behind a rock* or 
tree, and patiently waits the approach of the foe, and the theatre of war being 
here confined within certain limits^ he is seldom removed more than three 
days journey from his own hamlet. 

Very different are the arrangements necessary for the equipment of European 
troops, for it has been found that at the lowest computation, even for the short 
period of 15 days, four Coolies are required for each soldier, so that the fol- 
lowers to a detachment of 600 men will, at the very least, amount to 3400. 



OF CEYLON. 


CANDY.] 


511 


The unfortunate Coolies have the utmost horror, and not without reason, to a 
Candian campaign, during which they are always exposed to a galling fire, 
doubtful of being taken care of if wounded, and certain of being massacred if 
made prisoners. The burthens they are obliged to carry are heavy, the roads 
almost impassible, and it is chiefly at them the enemy take aim, well knowing 
that without them a regular force can make little progress. A reward being 
paid for every head presented to the king, no quarter is given, and the Can- 
dians being accustomed to decapitate even their own countrymen, did not spare 
those of the Coolies. One evil, however, they generally escape, which is the 
insalubrity of the climate, so destructive to foreigners of all descriptions, and 
more especially of Europeans. On the 13th of March, 1803, the grenadier com- 
pany of his Majesty’s 65th Regiment, consisting of three officers and 75 men, 
marched from Columbo for Catadenia, a small post in the interior. At the end 
of the month, without having sustained any loss by the enemy, the whole had 
fallen victims to disease, except one lieutenant and two privates. On the 11th 
of April, 1803, 400 men of the 51st Regiment appeared under arms at Columbo, 
on their return from Candy ; but in a little more than two months, 300 of them 
were buried, the seeds of the disease having been brought from the interior. 
The degree of insalubrity, however, attending situations in Indian climates, is 
known so frequently to alter, froiq inscrutable causes, that no certainty in this 
respect can be predicated. Thus it happened, that in 1815, (the year Candy 
was finally taken possession of,) the casualties among the British troops stationed 
in Ceylon amounted only to two and a half per cent. — a very extraordinary 
diminution from the mortality of prior years. 

The Candian peasantry seldom clear away any considerable extent of ground, 
and if neglected, it is soon overgrown by the exuberance of the vegetation. 
The general practice is to cultivate a spot one year, and allow it to run to waste 
in the next, so that fresh tracts are alternately under cultivation and in a state 
of nature. This process, in consequence, so changes the face of the country, 
that a guide who expects to traverse miles of forest finds himself unexpectedly 
in the midst of cleared land, and, afraid to confess his ignorance, he goes on 
entangling the party more and more, until their escape is almost impracticable. 
Neither can any advantage be derived on these occasions from the compass, it 
being impossible to march two miles in a direct line through a thick jungle, in- 
tersected by swamps and rivers. Thus defended by their pestilential climate, 
their mountains, and their jungles, the Candians, by adhering steadily to the 
same mode of warfare, were enabled to resist the efforts of their various 
European invaders for three successive centuries. Although repeatedly driven 
from their capital, the enemy could never retain permanent possession of the 



512 THE ISLAND [cawda. 

interior, which, up to 1815, was governed as independently as at any period of 
their history. 

In 4 .. D. 1798, the king of Candy died, and Pelime Talawve, the chief Adigar, 
raised to the throne a young native of the Carnatic, of no talents and inferior 
lineagf, to the prejudice of Mootoo Swamy, and others of the royal race. 
Subsequently the Candian court evinced a most hostile disposition, and com* 
mitted various acts of aggression on the British territories. A long series of 
intrigues and negociations commenced, in which the chief Adigar performed a 
distinguished part, but they ultimately ended in an open rupture. A waf 
ensued in 1803, of a very destructive nature to the British troops engaged, and 
to Mootoo Swamy, whose cause they espoused; which lasted with different^ 
vicissitudes until 1805, when a tacit cessation of hostilities took place, without \ 
any regular treaty, such a document being considered no additional security for 
its permanence. 

At length, in 1815, what foreign violence could not accomplish, was effected 
by the insane cruelty of the reigning king, which rendered him so detested by all 
classes of his subjects, that they implored the assistance of the British govern- 
ment to drive the monster from the throne. In consequence of reiterated sup- 
plications, in February, 1815, a British army entered the Candian territories^ 
and the king fled from his capital, pursued by his own troops and subjects. 
After absconding from several places, he was come up with, on the 18th of 
February, by the peasantry and some armed Candians. The few Carnatic 
followers that remained with him made some resistance, and wounded one of 
the assailants, on which they retired a few paces and fired on the house. The 
king then came out and delivered himself up to the assailants, by whom he was 
bound, reviled, and plundered; but as no regular troops were present, nor any 
British officer, immediate relief could not be given. In achieving this long 
protracted conquest, the resistance, in a military point of view, was trifling, and 
principally arose from the indescribably rugged surface of the country, inter- 
sected by mountains and morasses. Indeed, under existing circumstances, the 
expedition could not have been undertaken but with the concurring wishes of 
the chiefs and people, without whose acquiescence and aid, it could not have 
been commenced, far less brought to a successful issue without the sacrifice of a 
single life. 

The peace of Ceylon no w appeared imperturbable, and even the climate in* 
dicated an improvement, the mortality among the Europeans having decreased 
most remarkably. But the calm was of short duration, for in the course* of two 
years an insurrection was excited by the turbulent ambition of a few discon* 
tented chiefs, and kept alive by their pernicious influence over a people 



candy.] OP CEYLON. 513 

habituated to the most implicit obedience ; fori in facti no charge or accusation 
was ever brought against the administration of the British government. This 
revolt may be said to have commenced on the 10th of September, 1817, on 
which day Mr. Wilson, the assistant resident at Badula, received intelligence 
that a stranger, with two old and six young priests, had taken up his abode in 
the jungles of Wellasee. Mild and conciliatory measures were tried at first, 
but found unavailing; and when vigorous measures were resorted to, the usual 
afflictions from disease and climate were experienced. In fact, the provinces 
most agitated by the insurrection had never been accustomed to the sway of 
any tranquil or regular government, and many of their inhabitants, such as the 
Bedahs of Wellasee and Bintenne, never had acknowledged more than a nominal 
subjection to the Candian monarchy. The districts of the interior, accustomed to 
the controul of any permanent authority, remained faithful to their engagements, 
and the maritime territories were never either attacked or disturbed. Protected, 
however, by their wilds and fastnesses, the insurgents persevered obstinately in 
their rebellion, and involved the British nation in an immense expenditure of 
lives and treasure, until about the 22d of November, 1819, at which date active 
operations had entirely ceased in the Candian territories ; and with the view of 
preventing the recurrence of similar misfortunes, arrangements were in progress 
for the permanent consolidation of the central and maritime provinces. For 
three centuries the topography of the interior of Ceylon has been a matter of 
romance and conjecture, but recently every mountain, forest, chasm, and ravine, 
has been scoured in search of the enemy, who have hitherto considered their 
native thickets impervious to an European soldier. — (Public Documents, Percival, 
Cor diner. Major Johnston, Knox , Harrington , Boyd, 8$c. 8$c. $ % c.) 

Candy.— The ancient capital of the Candian principality, or empire as the 
Dutch called it, stands in lat. 7° 27' N. long. 80° 36' E. about 70 miles direct 
distance N. E. from Columbo, and .95 S. W. from Trincomalee. The surround- 
ing country is magnificent, presenting high hills and mountains, deep vallies, per- 
petual woods and perennial verdure, with a redundance of trees, brushwood, 
and jungle. The Mahavali Gunga river almost surrounds the hills on which it is 
placed, and is here broad, rocky, and rapid* and on the banks of it a strict watch 
was formerly kept by the C&ndians. The climate is cool, averaging the whole 
year round about 74° Fahrenheit. To attempt now to describe what it was 
would be a waste of time; indeed very little was known respecting it, on account 
of the secrecy and mystery observed by the Candians to all European embassies, 
which were always obliged to enter the town by torch-light, and were carefully 
reconducted before the sun arose. Wher taken possession of by a British de- 
tachment in 1808 , it ,ii found to ]xi . miyinhlj ihibhj||iirfi| wtfM jpIftfn* 

VO In II. 9 V 



THE ISLAND 


514 THE ISLAND [adah’i mi 

very long street, terminated at the upper end by the palace. In 1818, it 


populous, and well supplied with provisions (even beef and veal) and mer- 
chandize, its prosperity having been greatly accelerated by the settlement of 
above* 200 industrious Mahommedans (lubbies) from Columbo. A regular police 
had also been established. 

To the British nation Candy is principally interesting on account of the cates* 
trophe which befel its unfortunate garrison in 1803. It was taken possession of 
in April that year, and a detachment left in charge under Colonel Barbut, who 
dying soon afterwards was succeeded by Major Davie. In June it was invested 
by the Candians, and a capitulation concluded, by which they agreed to permit 
the garrison, greatly weakened by sickness, to march unmolested to Trincomalee.\ 
The conditions, however, were soon violated by the perfidy of the Candian \ 
leaders, and the whole of the Europeans (except Major Davie), as well as rile \ 
sick in the hospital, massacred. In this disastrous affair 16 officers were mur- 
dered, 16 died from the effects of the climate, and of the civil service, 6. — 
Privates of the 19th Regiment murdered, 172 ; died of the effects of the climate, 
120; died after their return to Columbo, 300; total 592. In the month of 
February, 1815, an expedition under General Brownrigg had a very different 
result, as the town was taken possession of without the slightest resistance, 
having been stripped of every thing worth carrying away, and deserted by all 
its inhabitants. Most of the latter were soon induced to return, and an acces- 
sion received of a more valuable class from the sea-coast. — ( Percival , Dr. John 
Davy, Major Johnston, 8;c. &>c. fyc.) 

Adam’s Peak. — A lofty mountain in the interior of Ceylon, situated about 
50 miles E. S. E. from Columbo. Lat. 6° 47' N. long. 80° 32' E. The top of 
this mysterious peak appeal to have been first attained in 1815 by Lieutenant 
Malcolm, of a Ceylon regiment, accompanied by a party of Malay soldiers. The 
road followed the windings of the Caitura river, which at the distance of two 
miles from Batugedera receives the Magelle, two chains in breadth at the con- 
fluence. The top of the first mountain was reached in four hours. From the 
next hill the Caitura river descends, and this elevation being overcome, and also 
two other distinct ascents, the foot of the peak is reached. The fitce of the hill 
here appears quite perpendicular, and the pilgrims are hence seen at a great 
distance, climbing up the precipice by means of iron chains fixed for that pur- 
pose to the rock. After surmounting this steep portion the top of the peak is 
gained, and rewards the traveller with a magnificent prospect. On one side a 
vast extent of wooded hills like an ocean of forest is seen, while in other quar- 
ters only the summits of the bills are perceptible, rising over the fogs like a 
number of small islands covered with trees. In this moist climate, however. 



mawowxllx.] OF CEYLON. 515 

the view is rarely of long duration, being soon obscured by floating mists from 
die Tallies. 

The summit of the peak is Contracted to a small compass, being only 72 feet 
long by 54 broad, with a parapet wall five feet high, generally much out of re- 
pair. In the centre of this area is a laTge rock of iron-stone, upon which, with 
the assistance of the imagination, the impression of Adam's foot may be traced. 
The sacred mark is enclosed by a frame of copper fitted to its shape, ornamented 
with four rows of precious stones, and the whole is covered from the weather by 
a small wooden building twelve feet long, nine broad, and four and a half high to 
the tiles. The chief constituent parts of the mountain are gneiss, quartz, fel- 
spar, and garnet ; and its perpendicular height above the level of the sea is 
estimated by Dr. John Davy at 6400 feet. The road from Palabina to the top 
of Adam’s Peak is a continued ascent over rocks and fragments of iron-stone, 
to surmount which (according to the Ceyloh Government Gazette), sound lungs 
and hard feet are indispensable, yet on the 24th of March, 1819, it was ascended 
by three ladies ; videlicet, the Honourable Mrs. Twisleton, Mrs. Shuldam, and 
Mrs. Walker . — (Public Journals , &;c. $c. fyc.) 

Ruanelli. — A valley in the island of Ceylon, 26 miles E. N. E. from Co- 
lumbo, named by the Candians, in whose territory it was formerly situated, the 
Valley of Precious Stones, and is probably the one alluded to by Sinbad the 
sailor. Up to this place the river is navigable for boats ; but from hence to Candy 
it is shallow and rocky. From Ruanelli to Columbo the distance by water is 
about 60 miles; yet so rapid is the current, that the passage down is made in 
eight hours, while in returning, the same number of days are occupied. 
Since the British conquest, and more especially since 1815, great improve- 
ments have been effected at Ruanelli, bridges having been erected on the route 
from Columbo, and the vicinity to a certain distance cleared of jungle. A 
small fort, comfortable habitations, and convenient storehouses have also been 
erected, and below the fort, near the river, there is a neat street well inhabited 
and supplied with articles of food and merchandize. Further on, at Atapitea, 
a new fort, or rather fortified post, has been established on the top of a hill of 
considerable height, below which a native fort has arisen. 

Sittivacca (or Situaque ), — A small town in the interior of Ceylon, and for- 
merly noted for being the chief scene of intercourse, both friendly and hostile, 
between the Candians and their European neighbours. It was then a boundary 
town, and stands on a large branch of the Malwaddy river, which here makes a 
great sweep. Lat. 6° 57' N. long. 80° T E. 23 miles E. from Columbo. 

H a no welle. — A town and small fort in the island of Ceylon, 16 miles E. from 
Colombo. Lat 6° 65' N. long. 79° 59' E. In 1803, after the Candians had 

3 v 2 



51,6 THE ISLAND [hanaae isle. 

taken and massacred the garrison of the capital, under Major Davie, they ven- 
tured, contrary to their usual maxims of defensive warfare, to invade the British 
territories, in hopes of effecting the total expulsion of their European foes* In 
September, 1803, the King of Candy attacked this place with a numerous army, 
but was defeated with incredible slaughter by the garrison under Captain Wil- 
liam Pollock, consisting of only 50 Europeans, 160 sepoys, and 17 gun lascars. 

Point Pedro. — The northernmost extremity of the island o r Ceylon. Lat. 
9* 46' N. long. 80° 7' E. 

Jafnapatam.— The town and fort of Jafna stand at some distance from the 
main ocean, but there is a communication by means of an inlet navigable for 
boats. Lat. 9° 36' N. long. 79° 50' E. 200 miles N. by E. from Columbo. Th^ 
fort is of a pentagonal form and regularly built, with five bastions, broad ditches} 
and an extensive glacis. One side runs parallel to the strait which separates 
the peninsula of Jafna from the rest of Ceylon ; the others are environed by an 
open and well cultivated plain. Half a mile to the eastward of the fort stands 
the pettah, containing several thousand inhabitants of various shades, colours, 
and religions. On account of its salubrity and cheapness, Jafna is a great resort 
of the Dutch families, and it is also the only district in Ceylon the revenue of 
which exceeds the expenditure. Agriculture flourishes, and more especially the ; 
cultivation of tobacco of an excellent quality. The two other articles of export 
are the trunks of the palmiras and chank shells. Dependent on the province of 
Jafna, and a small distance at sea, are several islands, which the Dutch have 
named after their native cities Delft, Haarlem, Leyden, and Amsterdam. On 
these, horses and cattle are bred, as from their excellent pasture they are well 
adapted for the rearing of these valuable animals. The Jafnapatam province 
comprehends rather less than one fourth of the whole island, but it nevertheless 
contains the greatest population; and within its limits the ruins of 32 Portugueze 
churches are still to be seen. — (Percival, Cordincr, fyc. SfcJ 

Man aar (Gulf of ). — This gulf separates Ceylon from the Southern Car- 
natic. Although too shallow to admit vessels of a large size, the depth of 
water is sufficient for sloops, donies, and other small craft, which convey goods 
by this passage to and from the continent to Columbo, instead of taking the 
outward circuitous passage, and rounding the island by Dondra-head. The 
ridge of sand banks named Adam’s Bridge, presents a great obstruction, and 
vessels are frequently obliged to lighten at Manaar before they can pass. This 
is catted the inner or Palk s passage, from k D:'tehmr*n of that name who first 
attempted it. 

Manaar Isle.— An island in the gulf, 18 miles long by 2$ in breadth, partly 
covered with palmira and coco-nut trees ; but the greater proportion of the sur- 



,€ 0 KDA*ca*.] OF CEYLON. 517 

feee is a mere mound of sea sand, with scarcely any drinkable water. The fort 
stands close to the strait and fronts the Ceylon coast. Small boats ply between 
Ramisseram and Manaar, and government have also boats stationed for convey- 
ing over the letter bags between Ceylon and the continent. In 1803, Manaar 
fort contained 28 pieces of cannon, mostly unserviceable, and its principal 
utility was the prevention of illicit commerce. 

Delft Isle. — A small island about 21 miles in circumference, belonging to 
the Jafnapatam district, lying off the north-west coast of Ceylon. The soil is 
in part rocky, but generally of a light earth, with loose coral stones scattered 
on the surface. It has a slightly saline impregnation ; but yields excellent pas- 
turage. The inhabitants are Malabars of different castes ; the chief of which, 
the Vellalas, dwell in two distinct villages. The lower class, called Pariars, are 
Catholics, whose ancestors were converted by the Portugueze. Palmira and 
coco-nut trees abound, and belong to the inhabitants, who also cultivate some 
cotton ; but they have no property in the land, which is entirely vested in the go- 
vernment. The whole island contains about 12,000 acres fit for cultivation and 
pasturage. TheDutch government originally established the stud which still exists 
here, and to stock it imported the finest Arabian mares ; but the breed (although 
the horses are in general well framed, spirited, and fit for light weighty) has 
considerably deteriorated. In 1812, the stud consisted of 200 mares and 50 
colts and fillies . — ( fyrtolacci, fyc. §c.) 

Conbatchx ( Bay of ). — A bay in the island of Ceylon, situated about 12 
miles south from the island of Manaar, and the most central rendezvous of the 
boats employed in the pearl fishery. The oyster banks are scattered over a 
space in the gulf of Manaar, extending about 30 miles from north to south, and 
24 from east to west. There are 14 beds, but not all equally productive. The 
boats with their crews come from Manaar, Jafna, Ramiseram, Nagore, Tuticorin, 
Travancore, Kilkerry, and other parts on the main land. The shape of the 
oyster is an imperfect oval, nearly the same as a cockle, about 9-J- inches in cir- 
cumference. The inside is brighter and more beautiful than the pearl itself, the 
outside smooth, unless when covered with corals, sponges, and other zoophytes. 
The pearls are usually Contained in the thickest and most fleshy part of the 
oyster, near to the hinge, and one oyster generally contains several* pearls. One 
oyster, including seed pearls, has been known to produce 150, while 100 oysters 
have been opened without the discovery of any. The pearl oyster is said to 
attain maturity within 8 years ; if so, the Dutch lost a great profit by suspend- 
ing all fishing from 1768 to 1796. It has been found impossible to transplant it 
from what may be called its native soil. 

The boats and their crews (about 6000) are rouzed before midnight by the 



THE ISLAND 


518 


[C&NDATCHT* 


firing of a field piece, and the scene of embarkation displays much bustle and 
confusion. The diver, placing his foot within a heavy stone, descends to the 
bottom, where he quits the stone, throws himself on his belly, collects every 
thing he can get hold ,of, and puts it into his^basket, which he then quits and 
warps up by the rope attached to draw it up. The superstition of the divers 
ronders it necessary for tfie government to employ two enchanters to charm the 
sharks, in Which they appear to^be very successful, as although they are seen 
both from the boats and while the diver is at the bottom, accidents rarely occur*. 
These necromancers are all of one family, and possess the entire confidence of 
the natives. The depth of water is usually from five to seven fathoms ; some 
divers perform the dip in 1 minute, others l£, and probably few have ever ex- 
ceeded minutes. From a well covered bank an experienced diver will send 
up 150 oysters in his basket at one descent. Two divers are attached to each 
stone, and go down alternately, and when 300 boats are anchored on the banks, 
1500 divers may be supposed to go down every minute ; and probably by their 
noise and numbers assist the incantations of the shark charmers. These impos- 
tors receive ten oysters from every diver's share, and the same number are al- 
lotted for the pagodas at Ramiseram and Nagore, besides other privileges and 
emoluments of very ancient date, which have been continued by the British 
government. Two million oysters have been landed in one day, and one boat 
has been known to bring 33,000, while another had not 300. 

The pearl oysters are not esteemed good to eat, being of a much fatter and 
more glutinous substance than the common oy;ter. The pearls are sorted by 
being passed through the holes of tin brass sieves of different diameters. On 
the spot, during the fishery, all kinds are generally sold mixed together, at about 
£80 sterling per pound. As has already been mentioned, no fishery had taken 
place from the year 1768 until 1796. The discontinuance was owing to various 
causes, one of which was a refusal by the Nabob of Arcot to permit his subjects 
to repair to the bay of Condatchy. Preparations were made for letting the 
fishery even before the surrender of Columbo to the British, but all parties 
must have been deplorably ignorant of its richness, as no native made a suitable 
offer; and at last the Madras government let it to Mr. John Jervis, a junior ser- 
vant, on terms which would have realized him a large fortune had he persevered, 
but he lost heart, and it was let to some natives for £60,000, who were supposed 
to have cleared at least as much more, as even the second year, besides the con- 
tractor’s profit, it yielded £110,000, and the third £140,000 clear to the govern* 
ment* The banks, however, were then (owing to the uncertainty of retaining 
possession of the island) so much exhausted that no fishery of importance took 
place until A. D. 1804. — ( Cordtmr , Percival, Lebeck, fyc.) 



USOOMSO.] OF CEYLON. 519 

Ai»?o. —A small village in the bay of Condatchy, where the civil and mili- 
tary authorities reside during the season of the pearl fishery. Lat. 8° W N. 
long, lit 47' E. 120 miles N. N. E. from Columbo. The surrounding country is 
wild, barren, and uncultivated. 

Putellam. — T his is one of the largest and most commercial villages of Cey- 
lon* Lit. 7° 57' N. long. 79° 42' E. 74 miles north from Columbo. The sur- 
rounding country being flat and low is periodically inundated by the sea to a 
considerable distance inland ; which local advantage facilitating the formation 
of salt ponds, and the heat of the sun their evaporation, much salt is here ma- 
nufactured by that lazy process. 

Calpenteen. — The peninsula of Calpenteen is a neck of land which extends 
almost 60 miles along the west coast of Ceylon, and during the north-east mon- 
soon becomes an island. The surface is level, the soil sandy, and covered with 
coco-nut trees, the fruit of which is here the chief article of food. The Tort of 
Calpenteen is about 300 feet square, with four bastions, but no guns, and a large 
village and many detached cottages are scattered among the trees. The popu- 
lation is considerable, and a small trade in the export of salted fish and fish roes 
is carried on to Columbo, from whence rice is brought in return in large canoes 
50 feet by 5, made from the trunk of a single tree brought from the continent. — 
( Cordiner , S$c.) 

Chi law. — A small town in Ceylon, situated on a peninsula formed by tvjfo 
branches of a river. Lat. 7° 33' N. long. 79° 40' E. 45 miles N. from Columbp. 
A pearl fishery is occasionally carried on off this station, much inferior to that 
in the bay of Condatchy ; yet in one year it yielded a revenue of 40,000 pa- 
godas. AU the other sources of revenue of the Chilaw and Putlam districts, in 
1804, yielded only £5000. The coast from Chilaw to Negombo is flat, sandy, 
and open, with little cultivation. — ( Cordiner , fyc.) 

Negombo ( Nagambhu , the land of serpents). — A town and small fort on the 
west coast of Ceylon, 20 miles north frera Columbo. Lat. 7° IT N. long. 
79° 44' E. The fort is an irregular pentagon, constructed mostly of sand and 
turf, and the town contains a considerable number of reduced Dutch families, 
who have been attracted to Negombo by its salubrity and cheapness. Fish 
abound, mid are exported, and there is an inland navigation for 24 miles all the 
way to Columbo. Before the houses teak trees are planted, which appear to 
thrive, and in this neighbourhood the cinnamon plantations commence, stretching 
to the southward. The population of Negombo is considerable, and the adja- 
cent country fertile, yielding rich crops of rice ; and the arekanut, betel, coffee, 
in 4 black pepper plants flourish.— ( Cordiner, Spc. S$c.) 



THE ISLAND 


520 


[POINT Of OAU.I. 


Pantuba. — A village in Ceylon, situated at the mouth of a river ot the same 
name, 20 miles south from Columbo. Lat. 6° 43' N. long. 79° 49' E. 

Caltura. A town and small fort in Ceylon, 26 miles south from Columbo* 
Lat. 6° 34' N. long. 79° 53' E. An avenue of teak trees shades the high road, 
and rows of the same adorn the principal street. At Caltura, as at every village 
on the west coast of Ceylon, arrack is distilled from the juice of the palmira 
and coco-nut trees, and is an article of considerable traffic. The distance from 
Columbo is 28 miles, and the whole way there is an inland navigation bv means 
of rivers connected by canals.— ( Cordiner, fyc.) i 

Bentotte. — A village on the west coast of Ceylon, much celebrated for the 
excellence of its oysters. Lat. 6° 24' N. long. 79° 56' E. 38 miles S. S. E. from 
Columbo. \ 

Point de Galle. — A fortified town near the south-western extremity of ' 
Ceylon, 78 travelling miles along the sea shore S. S. E. from Colnmbo. Lat. 
6° 1' N. long. 80° 10' E. The harbour is spacious, particularly the outer road ; 
the inner harbour is secure during a great part of the year, but winds from a 
particular quarter are requisite to carry vessels out to sea. Ships outward 
bound from Europe gradually come in sight of the first land at Dondra-head, the 
southernmost promontory of Ceylon, and mark Point de Galle as the first har- 
bour. There is no regular rainy season here, as from its situation at the ex- 
tremity of the island it partakes of both monsoons. More rain, however, falls 
between November and February than at any other time. 

The fort of Point de Galle is about one mile and a quarter in circumference, 
and stands near the southern extremity of the island, on a low rocky promon- 
tory, from which it derives its name. Some of the bastions command the pas- 
sage leading to the inner harbour, which is intricate and rocky, and must not 
be attempted in the dark without an experienced pilot. The works are exten- 
sive and substantial, but commanded by several eminences, one of which is 
within musket-shot. On the side opposite to the fort there are a reservoir of 
excellent water, and a wooden quay provided with every convenience for filling 
casks. During the Dutch government, most of the cinnamon was shipped from 
hence, and British ships still call on their way to Columbo, and take up the 
quantity produced in the districts of Galle and Matura. Almost all the Euro- 
pean inhabitants live within the walls of the fort ; but the native Ceylonese, with 
little intermixture of strangers, are scattered about in all directions. Coir ropes 
are manufactured here in considerable quantities and exported, as also Coco- 
nuts, coco-nut oil, areca nuts, pumple noses, and oranges. A colony of Chinese 
was settled here in 1801 , but as Mr. Cordiner makes no mention of them in 



KAJtoWATtA.] OF CEYLON. m 

1805, it isprobable they have not succeeded. Point de Galle nab after Trin. 
comalee in the list of Ceylonese towns, yet is, in fact, larger, richer, aadaaaw 
commercial. Hie adjacent country is mountainous, four ranges bring risible, 
rising above each other, and covered with jungle to the summit. Hie roast tin 
mostly coral, of which great part of the fortifications is built; and dong the 
sea shore fifty different sorts of small shell fish may be gathered. The Potts* 
gueze obtained possession of Point de Galle so early as A. D. 1517. — (Pmskad, 
Gardiner, M. Graham, Lord Valent ia, Bruce, die.) 

Bellegaum. — A populous fishing village in Ceylon, near to which there is % 
celebrated Buddhist temple, on which is a figure of Buddha recumbent ; IStoffw 
E. S. E. from Point de Galle. Lat. 5° 59' N. long. 80° 24' E. The fifoeri** «* 
the coast are let by the government to contractors, and yield a considerable 
revenue ; but the consequence is, that although fish are abundant, as an article 
of food they are comparatively dear. 

Matura ( Mathura). — A town and small fort near the southern extremity «f 
Ceylon. Lat. 5° 58' N. long. 80° 31' E. 82 miles S. E. from Colombo. The 
fort stands on the west side of the Neel Ganga, or blue river, but is a place at 
no strength. The town extends along the banks of the river towards the sea. 
(Jems abound in the Matura district, where they are found by the natives in d* 
luvial ground. The native rock of the sapphire, the ruby, the cat’s eye, and libs 
different varieties of zircon, is gneiss. These gems, but not of the first quality, 
and also the cinnamon stone, occur imbeded in the gneiss rock. The Mathura 
district has declined in importance since it came into foe possession of foe 
British; the catching of elephants (with which it abounds), and foe raising af 
cinnamon, having been abandoned as unprofitable-^-^ Dr. John Damf, Cordxncr, 
Percmal, Sgc.) 

Dondra Head. — The southernmost extremity of foe island of Ceylo*, neat 
to which are still to be seen the ruins of what apparently has been a magnificent 
Hindoo temple. Lat. 5° 56' N. long. 80° 35' E. 

Tengalle. — A town on foe sea coast of Ceylon, situated near foe south- 
eastern extremity, having a small bay and tolerably good an chorin g grou n d . 
Lat 6° 3' N. long. 80 4 48' E. What was foe fort is now ia ndm, hut foe town 
In 1800 contained 300 inhabitants, mostly fishermen. 

Hajubangtotte. — A bay and fort on the S. W. coast of foe island tfCtjha, 
much f re qu ented by small craft to load salt. Lat 8* 8' N. long. 81* UNL . 
40 mSes E. N. E. from'Dondra Head. 

KabAwatta. — A h inland village ia foe Island of Ceylon, 8S milMi XTvNLftafo 
Dondra Head. Lat 8* f N. long. 80 s STS. Near to Rfoawuttala % rtf an 
dnous noiek, called by fob Butch, Adam's Berg; and by foe-OeyftwMfo 

tob fo * * 



522 THE ISLAND [baths***. 

reelenna. This mass is one entire rock, of a smooth surface, in the form of a 
cube, 300 feet high, and ascended by a winding flight of stairs of 545 steps, 
hewn out of the solid rock. On the summit is a bell-shaped tomb or temple, 
dedicated to Buddha, besides others excavated half way up the staircase. 
From the top the prospect is extensive, and at the bottom are the houses of 
some Buddhist priests. — ( Cordiner , §c.) 

Mahagam. — A village on the east coast of Ceylon, 70 miles N. E. from 
Dondra Head. The Mahagam Pattoo district is the wildest and most unculti- 
vated on the sea coast of Ceylon, and in many parts destitute of fresh wateri 
The most remarkable phenomena here are the natural salt lakes, or ponds, 
many of which are of a great extent, and formed by an outward embankment 
of sand thrown up by the waves along a level shore. T! he water, which falls in 
torrents during the rainy season, being thus pent up, overflows a great tract of 
flat country, and is rendered brackish by intermixture with the sea. During 
the dry season the wind is very strong and arid, and the air hot, in consequence 
of which a rapid evaporation takes place, and a crust of salt from 3 to 10 inches 
thick is deposited. The interior of Mahagam Pattoo is a savage country, almost 
covered with woods. As may be supposed from its local aspect, the inhabitants 
are a sickly and miserable race ; the miasmata from the swamps and jungles 
destroying their health, and the wild animals (such as elephants, hogs, deer, 
buffaloes, leopards, and bears,) the fruits of their labour. Nor are the salt 
makers exempt from their miseries ; the acrid qualities of the mud and water 
of the leways (salt ponds), in which they work, blistering and excoriating their 
hands, legs, and feet. In A. D. 1800, the village of Mahagam contained only 
20 inhabitants. The woods are principally composed of euphorbia and mimosa ; 
coco-nut and plantain trees being scarcely ever seen. 

Batic a lo. — A town and district on the east coast of Ceylon, 66 miles S.S.E. 
from Trincomalee. Lat. 7° 43' N. long. 81° 45' E. The town of Baticalo 
stands upon an island three miles and a half in circumference. The fort is of a 
square form, with few bastions, on which, in 1803, twenty-four guns were 
mounted. The inlet of the sea that surrounds Baticalo extends thirty miles 
into the country, -and contains several other islands of smaller dimensions. The 
frith is in many places a mile broad, but unfortunately a sand bar stretches 
ahross the entrance and precludes all but craft under 80 tons. The inhabitants 
;*re mostly Hindoos and Mahommedans, and the number of native Protestant 
Christians very small ; the whole territory attached having deen depopulated by 
ft b® small-pox soon after the conquest. Before that event, Baticalo used to fur- 
nisb 4 or 5000 head of cattle to the Dutch garrison at Trincomalee, but for 
many years past, the reverse has taken place, and bullocks have been imported. 



OF CEYLON. 


TEIftdOlfALJSfe.] 


52 3 


The interior of the Baticalo district remains covered with primeval forests and 
thick jungle, where wild in woods the noble savage (here a very miserable 
animal) ranges unmolested, under the name of Bedah, or Vedah. Beyond the 
first chain of hills are the still more rugged mountains of Ouva. renowned for 
ages as the last asylum of the Candian monarchs ; and it was among them that 
in A. D, 1631, the Portugueze army and their general, Constantine de Saa, in 
attempting to track the king to his den were overpowered, and perished to a 
man . — ( Cor diner, Bertolacci, Major Johnston , Percival , #e. 8$c.) 

Tbincomalee. — A town, fortress, and excellent harbour in the island of 
Ceylon, 150 miles N. E. from Columbo. Lat. 8° 32' N. long. 81° 17" E. Owing 
to the convenience of its situation, the harbour of Trincomalee is the most imr 
portant in India. When the violent monsoon commences, all vessels on the Co- 
romandel coast and western side of the bay of Bengal are obliged to put to sea, 
and then Trincomalee is their only place of refuge. A vessel from Madras can 
arrive here in two days, and the harbour* is to be made at any season. By the 
Dutch it was much neglected, the soil being barren and the air noxious, and 
having no continental possessions to defend, the harbour was of little utility to 
them ; neither did the grandeur of the surrounding scenery, consisting of rooks, 
cliffs, islands, woods, and mountains, so different from the flat swamps of Bata- 
via (their standard of beauty), interest them. The harbour is accessible at all 
seasons, but for one half of the year mariners prefer Back Bay, it being then 
sufficiently safe, and affording a more easy egress. Dutch Bay is never entered 
by large ships. Within the bay of Trincomalee the shores are so bold and the 
water so deep, that it is almost possible to step from the rocks into the vessels 
moored alongside ; but the rise of the tide is not sufficient for wet docks. 

The great body of the town and fort of Trincomalee are placed at the bottom 
of a rock, and joined to a narrow neck of land running parallel to the sea, and 
separating the harbour from two adjacent bays, one of which lies on each side 
of a three-cornered promontory. The guns of Trincomalee conimand both 
Dutch and Back Bay, the first on the south, and the latter on the north side of the 
fortified rock. Fort Ostenburgh stands on a mount three miles west of Trihco- 
malee, and protects the mouth of the harbour. One chain of batteries surrounds 
the base, and another the summit of the circular hill, mounted on depressing 
and traversing carriages. The fortifications of Trincomalee form a sweep above 
one mile in length, encompassing the base of a rockv hill on the sides con- 
nected with the adjacent land, the portion which projects into the sea being suf- 
i ficiently protected by the steepness of the cliffs. No communication can 
take place with the promonitory except through the gates of the fort, and its 
situation is so advantageous that it may be rendered almost impregnable. The 

3x2 



THE ISLAND 


[COCXLXT. 

works of both Fort Ostenburgh and Trincomalee were mostly built by the Por- 
tuguese, with some additions by the French (who are great fortifiers) during the 
short period they possessed it; by the Dutch nothing had been done. Then 
haw? as yet been very few European settlers attracted to Trincomalee, but as 
very recently the naval department, stores, and establishments have been trans- 
ferred from Madras, the population will probably experience a rapid increase, 
and the climate be unproved by the clearing of the adjacent country. The in- 
habitants, in 1800, were mostly natives of the Carnatic, here named Malabars; 
and by the exertions of Admiral Drury, a Chinese colony had been established, 
with the view of raising vegetables for the fleet, but no recent accounts of its 
proceedings have been transmitted. Owing to the barren and unproductive 
nature of the surrounding country, there is no export trade whatever, and even\ 
in the best seasons fresh provisions are scarce. The adjacent jungles abound \ 
with wild hogs and elephants, the latter having been shot within a mile of the 
town. 

In A. D. 1672, M. de la Haye, the commander of a French squadron, at- 
tempted a settlement here ; but being opposed by the Dutch government of 
Ceylon, he bore away for the coast of Coromandel. From that date it remained 
with the Hollanders until 1782, when it surrendered without resistance to a 
detach me nt of troops from Madras, but was shortly after retaken with equal ease 
by Admiral SuffrCin, In 1795, General James Stewart was sent with an army 
against Trincomalee, where the fleet anchored to the south-east of the fort, ex- 
cept the Diomede frigate, which was unfortunately lost by st riking on a sunken 
rock. After a siege of three weeks a breach was effected, and preparations 
hairing been made to storm, the Dutch governor capitulated. It .has ever since 
bean occupied by a British garrison, but little is known of its present condition, 
no authentic accounts of its situation having been, received for almost twenty 
yean, nor has any practical benefit from its possession yet resulted to the British 
nation. — (Percwal, Cor diner, M. Graham, tyc, Sjc.) 

Canni a. — A small village in the island of Ceylon, six miles N. W. from Trin- 
comalee > where there are some hot wells, varying in heat from 98° to 106° of 
Fahrenheit ; but the water has little that is peculiar in colour, smell, or taste, the 
teineral and alkaline ingredients being scarcely perceptible. — (Dr. Christie, 8$c.) 

Candelye. — The ruins of an artificial lake or tank, in the island of Ceylon, 
19 miles S. W. from Trincomalee, estimated at 20 miles in circumference, the 
^“banktnent of which is composed of very large stones regularly hewn and befit, 
in tome places 30 feet high, and at the bottom 150 in thickness. In 1802 the tank 

was dry , to many parts to the base of the waU. 

Cocw.it.— A small village on the north-eestern coast of Ceylon, stented 



OF CEYLON. 


Ttm.) 


555 


sear a considerable river of the same name, about 38 miles N. N. W. from Trin- 
comalee. Lat. 9° N. long. 80° 58' E. 

Malativo. — A town in the island of Ceylon, situated on the banks of a river, 
which at the mouth is sufficiently deep to admit small craft'. Lat. 9° 15' N. long. 
80° 45' E. 

Wasst. — A district in the interior of Ceylon, situated towards Trincomalee, 
is the north-east quarter. This is a fine flat country, and well adapted for the 
cultivation of rice, which, from remaining vestiges, would appear to have been 
formerly raised in large quantities. The ruins of 600 tanks, some of great extent, 
are still to be seen, and the territory seems to have been in a state of great pros- 
perity prior to its occupation by the Dutch, since which event it has declined. 
At different periods, its wannies, or princes, taking advantage of the wars be- 
tween the Candian sovereigns and their European enemies, endeavoured to 
establish an authority independent of both, but they finally, after their country 
had been much desolated by all parties, submitted to the Dutch. The road 
through Wanny, from Vertativo to Molletivo, presents the shortest route between 
Colombo and Trincomalee, so that its inhabitants sustained much pillage and 
vexation from the troops and their followers marching between these stations 5 
but these atrocities were entirely suppressed during the administration of the 
Earl of Guildford, and the district has ever since been in a state of progressive 
improvement. — ( Bertolacci, #c. 8$c.) 



BALOOCHISTAN. 


(or the country or the baloochesV 


The boundaries of Baloochistan, in their widest acceptation, are the Indian' 
ocean to the southward ; Seistan and Afghanistan to the north ; the provinces of 
Laristan and Kerman to the west ; and to the east Shikarpoor and the province 
of Sinde. Within these limits are comprehended the provinces of Jhalawan and 
Sarawan, Mekran and Lus, Cutch Gundava, and Hurrund Dajel, Kohistan, and 
the desert. The space may be described as being included between the latitudes 
of 24° 50' and 30° 40' N. and the longitudes of 58° 55' and 67° 30' £. but some 
portion of territory exceeds these longitudes east and west. The whole of this 
extensive region composed at one time the dominions of Nassir Khan, the father 
of the present Khan of Kelat, but since his death it has undergone many political 
and territorial changes. 

To the south, Baloochistan Proper commences at Bayla, from which place it 
extends northward to Nooshky, 79 miles N. W. from Kelat. This country is 
described as a confused heap of mountains, through which the roads generally 
lead in water courses and the beds of small rivers. Jhalawan is the most southern 
district of Baloochistan, and Sarawan the most northerly. They are a of 
mountains from Kohunwat on the frontiers of Lus to the desert which separates 
them from Candahar ; the length of this stupendous range is 350 miles, but 
varies in breadth at different places. These mountains are barren, and chiefly 
composed of black or grey stone ; but the vallies of Wudd, Khozdar, and Sohrab, 
are capable of cultivation. The climate of this Alpine region assimilates in a 
considerable degree to that of Europe, there being four distinct seasons — spring;- 
summer,' autumn, and winter. The heat is seldom unpleasantly great, but the 
cold is intense during the months of December, January, and February. 

The plains of Wudd, Khozdar, and Sohrab, produce in favourable seasons 
plentiful crops of wheat, barley, and joaree ; and in some of the lesser vallies 
grass grows abundantly. Flocks of sheep and cattle are numerous in every part 
of the country. Jhalawan and Sarawan are subdivided into smaller districts, 
and every district into innumerable kheils or societies, each of which furnish their 
quota of troops according to the population, or the exigence of the service. 



BALOOCHISTAN. 527 

Shal and Mustung, two stages to the northward of Kelat, were given to Nassir 
Khan by Nadir Shah, for his services at Meshed, and Hurrund Dajel for those in 
Hindustan. Nooshky is a small tract, about 36 square miles, at the base of the 
Kelat mountains. It is an arid tract, the sandy hills of which are continually 
shifting with the winds. A slender stream, called the Xysur, issues from the hills, 
and irrigates a small portion of the country ; and there are also small patches of 
land capable of cultivation in different parts of the sand, but which frequently 
become quite sterile for want of rain. The inhabitants of this tract dwell under 
black felts, stretched over a frame of wicker work made of the guz plant. This 
species of village is named toman or kheil, and in most of them a few Hindoos 
are to be found. 

The soil of Nooshky being so sandy, the heat during the summer months is ex- 
cessive, on which account the inhabitants migrate to the mountains for cool air 
and water, as the stream at tha£t season fails in the valley. The inhabitants im- 
port grain from Cutch Gundava and Seistan, and dates from Mekran. The 
Balooches here are called Nharroes or Rukshani, and are related to those of the 
same tribe in Seistan and Bunpoor. In appearance they are tall men with small 
bones, are extremely idle and dissolute, and addicted to thieving. They under- 
take predatory incursions to Mekran, and carry off into slavery any person they 
meet with : some they sell at Kelat and Candahar, the remainder are brought 
into the horde and incorporated with the tribe. In this part of the country all 
the Balooches understand Persian ; but they speak a dialect of the Baloochy 
language among themselves, different from that of the Koorgalee spoken by the 
Brahooees. Sorhab is a fine valley extending north and south nearly 50 miles, by 
about 12 in breadth. The middle, through which the water runs from the hills, is 
well cultivated, with small villages scattered about half a mile asunder. The 
mountains in many parts of Baloochistan are inhabited by shepherds, who reside 
in temporary huts erected on any spot that offers good pasturage. 

The general soil of Baloochistan is sandy, stony, and arid. The mountains 
are chiefly composed of hard black and grey rock. The earth on the plains is 
mixed with such a profusion of pebbles and small stones that the mould is 
scarcely visible ; yet this most unpromising composition produces, when properly 
cultivated and watered, abundant crops of wheat and barley, and vtrhere 
untilled, grass of a luxuriant growth. In the parched and desert portions of Ba- 
loochistan, the date tree bears the first rank in point of importance. The best 
•timber is procured from the apoor tree (greatly resembling teak), and' the tama- 
rind, bath of which are remarkably hard and durable, and attain a great size. 
To these may be added the babool, tamarisk, and mulberry. The neem; peepul, 
sissoo, chinar, mango, walnut, and sycamore, are also found in different tracts; 



528 BALOOCHISTAN. 

but the oak, ash, and fir, are unknown. Gold, silver, lead, iron, copper, tin, ««*»• 
mony, brimstone, alum, sal ammoniac, various mineral salts! and saltpetre, are 
fourfd in different parts of Baloochistan. Rock salt is common to the westward? 
and on the road from Kelat to Cutch Gundava there is a range of hills containing 
salt of a perfectly red colour, and aperient quality. In that vicinity are sulphur 
and alum ; and white and grey marble are seen to the westward of Noosbky. 

Among the domestic animals of Baloochistan may be enumerated horses, mules, 
asses, camels, dromedaries, buffaloes, black cattle, sheep, goats, dogs, and cats; 
there are also domestic fowls and pigeons, but no tame geese, turkies, or duckjs. 
The wild animals are lions, tygers, leopards, hysenas, wolves, jackals, tyger cati^ 
wild dogs, foxes, hares, mongooses, mountain goats, antelopes, elks, red ana 
moose deer, and wild asses. Of the feathered kind there are eagles, kites, vul«\ 
tures, magpies, crows, hawks, wild geese and ducks, flamingos, herons, bustards, 
floricans, rock pigeons, lapwings, plovers, snipes, quails, and almost every descrip- 
tion of small birds found either in Europe or India. Vermin and venemous animals 
are more rare than in Hindostan ; and except on the sea coast, fresh fish wholly 
unknown. The horses of Baloochistan are strong, well boned, and large, but 
usually extremely vicious. Those exported to India are mostly reared to the 
south of the Kelat, and in Cutch Gundava. The sheep are mostly of the 
fat tailed species ; the camel and the dromedary are the animals most highly 
prized by the Balooches. The camel with two humps is only serviceable for 
burthen, being of a heavy make, with enormous bones, a shaggy coat, and of 
great strength. The dromedary, or one humped camel, is trained by the Ba- 
looches to amazing speed, and long abstinence from food and water, and are 
consequently chiefly made 'use of on chepows, or marauding expeditions. 

There are few countries in the world so wholly without commodities suited 
for commercial exchange as Baloochistan, which originates partly in the dispo- 
sition of the natives, who are averse to the arts of civil life, and partly to the 
nature of the country, consisting either of stupendous mountains or of arid 
plains, destitute of water and vegetation. Neither has this territory the benefit 
of any navigable river to transport its manufactures or vegetable productions* if 
it had any to spare ; and the roads are generally nothing but the dry beds of 
torrents. The population is also dispersed into small societies, hostile to each 
other, ami yielding but a nominal obedience to any chief!. The exports from 
Kdat are at present insignificant; but it was once the great channel of mm* 
t&andise from Khorasan, Candahar, and Cabul, to India. The imports from 
Hindostan consist of iron, tin, lead, steel, copper, indigo, betel nut* cq chin ea l, 
saga?) spices, silks, kincaubs, gold cloth, chintzes, and coarse wopHea*. Fruit, 
fee. they receive from Cabul and Khorasan ; and sometimes steel and copper 
fktii Seistsft. Dates era brought from Punicroor and tile southern parts rf 



BALOOCHISTAN. 529 

Mekran; and white cloth, chintzes, loongees, turbans, and salt from Sinde, 
Mopltan, and Shikarpoor. 

The duties levied at Kelat are moderate. A camel load of any description of 
goods pays, on entering the city, five rupees to the government, and one quarter 
of a rupee to the Hindoo pagoda ; there is also a bazar toll on all goods, amounting 
to 11 percent, on their value. Horses and cattle are exempted from taxation 
throughout the Baloochy territories. Land watered by wells or trenches pays 
one-twentieth of the produce ; that supplied with moisture by the rains, from 
one-tenth to one-sixteenth, according to the season. Where there are natural 
springs the tax is higher ; in some gardens at Kelat it is nearly one-fifth. The 
total of these revenues is not paid into the treasury, a portion being appropri- 
ated by the chiefs of tribes who collect it. When the receipts in kind exceed 
the consumption of the Khan, the surplus is made over to a Hindoo broker, who 
supplies him in return with foreign commodities and luxuries. The currency of 
Kelat is the Kurreem Khanee rupee, equal to 48 copper pice. Gold sequins 
pass for six of the above mentioned rupees, of which five are equivalent to four 
Zemaun Shahee rupees. 

The inhabitants of Baloochistan are divided into two great classes, severally 
known by the appellations of Baloochy and Brahooee, which are again sub- 
divided into an infinite number of tribes, kheils and tomuns. Between these 
two great classes there are leading distinctions in their language and appearance; 
but the aggregate population is exclusively known by the name of Balooches. 
The latter are again subdivided into three principal tribes named the Nharooees, 
the Rinds, and the Mughsees. The first principally inhabit that portion of 
Hindostan situated to the west of the desert, and there are also societies of them 
at Nooshky and in Seistan. The Rinds and Mughsees are mostly settled in the 
low countries of Cutch Gundava, where they have become incorporated with the 
Juts or cultivators of the soil. The Brahooees are more migratory and unset- 
tled .than the Balooches. The latter have tall persons, long visages, and high 
features ; the former, short thick bones, round faces, and flat lineaments, and the 
hair and beards of many of them are brown. In husbandry and domestic occu- 
pations, the Brahooees are hard workers. Those residing near the plains 
till large tracts of land, and dispose of the produce to the Hindoos for export- 
ation. This, and the sale of cheese and ghee, the produce of their flocks, with a 
few coarse blankets, carpets, and felts, form the only traffic in which the Brahooees 
engage. Their food is the same as that of the Balooches, except that they 
prefer flesh meat, half cooked, without bread, salt or vegetables, to any other 
species of nourishment. 

The Balooches and Brahooees are equally noted for their hospitality, but the 

VOX*. If. 3 T 



BALOOCHISTAN. 


530 

last are less addicted than the first to rapine and predatory violence, yet are fully 
equal in personal bravery and the endurance of hardships. They are also con- 
siderably exempted from the worst traits of the Baloochy character, which are 
avaripe, a vindictive disposition, and proneness to cruelty. All the Balooches 
are excellent marksmen, but the Brahooees excel in strength and courage. They 
train greyhounds with great care, and frequently exchange them for one or two 
camels, or pay 400 rupees for one of a superior quality. Their breed of shep- 
herds’ dogs is also excellent. The broad sword exercise and shooting at a mark 
are favourite amusements with the Brahooees, and as swordsmen they are said 
to excel. Their common dress is an under coat which fits close to the body, 
and is worn over the pyrahun or shirt ; their trowsers are gathered up at the 
ancle, and they wear a small, round, flat-topped cap of felt silk. The shepherd^ 
wear a covering of white felt above the shirt in winter, with cloth trowsers, and\ 
a smalbfelt cap. Petty quarrels are usually adjusted by the chief of the kheil or 
society; but an appeal in capital cases may be made to Kelat, except when 
a traveller has been murdered, on which emergencies the nearest chief is 
authorized to carry the law into execution. 

In religion both Balooches and Brahooees are of the orthodox or Sooni sect 
of Mahommedans, and strenuous adversaries to the Shias. Neither the Baloochy 
nor Brahooee a *e written languages, and the early history of both tribes is 
entirely traditiona. On examining a translation of the Lord’s Prayer into the 
Baloochy dialect, the missionaries found only four words of Sanscrit origin. 
The Baloochy partakes considerably of the idiom of the modern Persian, from 
which at least half its words are borrowed, but greatly disguised by a peculiar 
pronunciation. The Brahooee, on the contrary, in no respect resembles the 
Persian in sound, but contains a great number of Hindui words, having a strong 
resemblance as they strike the ear to the Punjabee dialect. The Dehwars of 
Baloochistan speak pure Persian, and resemble in every respect the Taujicks of 
Afghanistan. Among the dispersed societies of Baloochistan, there are a few 
Hindoos scattered, who carry on the miserable traffic of the country, and act as 
money changers and agents to the native chiefs. It is probable that long after 
the first Mahommedan invasion, a great proportion of the country still continued 
ui the occupation of the Hindoos ; but for more than a century past the Mahom- 
medan tribes have been so progressively increasing in barbarity, that no medium 
could be observed, and the native Hindoos have either undergone compulsory 
conversion, or deserted the country. A converted tribe of Hindoos, at present 
settled in Cutch Gundava, still retain the name of Gooroowanee, or disciples of 
the Gooroo, or Brahminical priest. The few Hindoos who migrate to this 
quarter from Hindostan, for the purposes of trade, seldom bring their families, 



BALOOCHISTAN. 


531 

and have probably much degenerated, as travellers have not observed among 
them that repugnance to flesh meat, which characterizes most of the purer castes 
in India. 

Two centuries ago the city of Kelat, with the surrounding country, was pos- 
sessed by Sewah Rajah, a Hindoo, at which period the Balooclies (as at present) 
tended flocks of sheep on the mountains. The inhabitants were then much in- 
fested by the depredations of the people residing in the low country lying be- 
tween Kelat, Sinde, and Shikarpoor ; and to protect them, the Raja sent for 
Kumbur (which in the Baloochy signifies an Abyssinian), a Baloochy chief, and 
took him into his service, allowing him five bundles of grass and wood per day 
for each man. In progress of time this chief increased his followers, and seizing 
on the government, raised the tribute to 100 bundles of grass and wood daily, 
besides a contribution of horses, camels, and foot runners. This tribute is still 
occasionally exacted by the Khans of Kelat, and paid by the Dehwars, or pea- 
santry, in the neighbourhood, who are said to have come originally from Persia, 
although they have much the appearance and manners of Hindoos. 

Kumbur, the first usurper, was succeeded by his son, 

Sumbur, the father of the next prince, 

Mahommed Khan, who was succeeded by his son, 

Abdallah Khan, the father of 

Nassir Khan, who ascended the throne after putting to death his brother Hadjee 
Khan. Nassir Khan performed some important services to Nadir Shah, who re- 
warded him with the donation of several adjacent provinces, and being a man of 
considerable abilities, greatly extended the Baloocliistan dominions, which he 
left in a comparatively flourishing state at his death, in 1795, to his oldest son, 
Mahmood Khan, who then ascended the throne. Since that period the terri- 
tories subject to Kelat have been greatly curtailed by the Ameers of Sinde, and 
other neighbouring princes the talents of Mahmood Khan being very inferior to 
those of his father. In conducting affairs he was greatly assisted by his brother 
Mustapha Khan, who proved of an active and martial disposition ; but since 
1810, Baloochistan has been involved in such incessant broils and revolutions, 
that the semblance of government has almost disappeared. In 1811, Mustapha 
Khan, r above mentioned, was assassinated by his younger brother, who, in 1812, 
was killed in battle against the forces of Mahmood Khan, the oldest brother. 

At present the territory 'immediately subject to Mahmood Khan comprises 
the high hilly country of Sewistan, and the low lands of Cutch Gundava, and 
Hurrund Dajil, to the eastward ; bounded on the north by Khorasan ; south by 
Lus knd Sinde ; on the west by Mekran ; and on the east by Sinde. In 1810. 
his whole clear revenue was only 350,000 rupees, collected from Hurrund Dajil. 

3 y 2 



BALOOCHISTAN. 


532 


[kelat. 


Cutch Gundava, and the bazar tolls of Kelat. The Khans of Baloochistan 
acknowledge the paramount authority of the Cabul sovereigns, to whom they 
are feudatories ; but their degree of obedience is in proportion to the talents of 
the reigning prince, and the political circumstances of the Cabul government. 
Upon a grand emergency, it is supposed the territories of Mahmood Khan are 
capable of furnishing 25,000 infantry and cavalry ; but so great a number has 
never yet been collected together, nor would it be an easy matter, in so barren 
a country, to subsist them if they were. — ( Pottinger, Christie , Kinneir , 

Kelat (Kiltat, the fortress ). — The capital of Baloochistan, and residence o^ 
its sovereign Mahmood Khan. Lat. 29° 8' N. long. 65° 50' E. This place standi 
on an elevated site, on the western side of a well cultivated valley, about eight; 
miles long, and two or three broad, the greater part of which is laid out in gar- ' 
dens and enclosures. The town has the form of an oblong square, three sides \ 
of which are encompassed with a mud wall 18 or 20 feet high, flanked at inter- 
vals of 250 paces with bastions, which, like the wall, are pierced with loopholes 
for matchlocks ; but there are no cannon, and the works generally are in a very 
ruinous condition. The defence of the fourth side is effected by cutting off per- 
pendicularly the western face of the hill, and on this eminence stands the Khan’s 
palace, commanding a distinct view of the town and circumjacent country. 
Viewed from without, the palace appears an irregular heap of common mud 
buildings, having flat roofs protected by low parapets, also pierced with loop- 
holes for matchlocks ; the site of this citadel, however, is naturally strong, and 
susceptible of being rendered much stronger. 

In 1810, the houses within the walls exceeded 2500, and in the suburbs there 
were about half that number. They are built of half burned bricks on wooden 
frames, and plastered over with mud or lime. The streets are broader than are 
usually seen in native townB, but have in the centre an uncovered kennel, a re* 
ceptade for dirt and stagnant rain water. The upper stories of the houses fre- 
quently reach across the streets, which is an attempt to imitate the covered 
bazars of Persia and Cabul. The inhabitants are composed of four classes } 
viz. Balooches, or Brahooees, Hindoos, Afghans, and Dehwars. The Hindoos 
who reside at Kelat, occupying 4 or 500 of the best houses, are principally mer- 
cantile speculators from the cities of Mooltan and Shikarpoor, who are here not 
only tolerated in their religion, but allowed to levy a duty on goods entering the 
city, for the support of their pagoda or temple. They do not, however, venture 
to bring their wives or female relations to Kelat, their usual practice being to 
visit their native place and families once in three or four years. These dege- 
nerate votaries of Brahma eat every kind of flesh meat (except beef), although 
killed by a Mahommfedan, drink water out of leathern bags, and wear bokhtra 



cutch gundava.] BALOOCHISTAN. 533 

skin caps, all direct breaches of the faith they profess. Their dialect is the Pun* 
jabee, and their accounts are kept in that character. The bazar is tolerably well 
supplied, and the town exhibits an appearance of trade and prosperity unusual 
in this most uncommercial country. 

The city of Kelat is at present, and has been for many generations, the capital 
of the adjacent districts and provinces, although subjected to a most rigorous 
•winter, when the show lies, even in the vallies, from the end of November to the 
beginning of February. Its total elevation above the level of the sea has been 
roughly estimated at 8000 feet. Rice and certain other vegetable productions 
that require a warm climate cannot be raised here, and wheat and barley do not 
ripen so soon as in Britain. The gardens "round Kelat, mostly planted by Nassir 
Khan, produce a great variety of fruit, among which may be enumerated 
apricots, peaches, grapes of different kinds, almonds, pistachio nuts, apples of 
many sorts, pears, plums, currants, cherries, quinces, figs, pomegranates, mul- 
berries, plantains, melons, and guavas. — (Pottinger, Christie, 8$c.) 

Cutch Gundava. — A large division of Baloochistan, situated principally be- 
tween the 27th and 29th degrees of north latitude. To the north it has the 
province of Sewistan; on the south that of Sinde; to the west it has the 
Brahooick mountains; and to the east a desert tract, which separates it from the 
river Indus. The utmost length of this territory from north to south may be 
estimated at 120 miles ; and in breadth, the habitable part, at a little more than 
60 miles. It possesses two rivulets flowing from the north-western mountains, 
which are extremely useful for the purposes of irrigation. 

The chief town in this tract is Gundava, which is not so large as Kelat, but 
built with greater regularity and kept in better order. The Khan of Kelat, with 
most of his chiefs, resorts here in winter, to escape the intense cold of the moun- 
tainous regions. Gundava is surrounded by a mud wall, over the gates of which, 
leading to Kelat, Corachie, and Shikarpoor, some small swivels are mounted. 
The next towns in rank are Dadur, Bhag, and Lheree, each containing from 
1000 to 1&00 houses, and surrounded by mud walls and bastions pierced with 
loopholes. The plains contain many villages. The population of this district 
consists mostly of Juts, a people whose manners, appearance, and customs in- 
dicate them to have been originally Hindoos, subsequently converted to the 
Mahommedan religion. They reside in permanent villages, and cultivate the 
adjacent soil, the rent of which they pay to their Baloochy and Brahooee chief- 
tains. There are a few Hindoos settled in Gundava and in the smaller towns 
and villages, who carry on a trade by barter with the cultivators, and afterward* 
dispatch the grain and other productions to Mekran, Corachie, and Sommeany. 
The land is rich and loamy ; but it is a remarkable fact, that rice will not grow 



BALOOCHISTAN. 


534 


[SOHURDIBS. 


in Cutch Gundava, although the soil affords luxuriant crops of every other de- 
scription. It rains in June, July, and August, land also a little in the spring 
months. The simoom, or pestilential wind,' blows here during the hot months, and 
is very destructive even to the natives. — (Prttinger, #c. ti$c.) 

Hurrund Dajel. — A district subject to the Khan of Baloochistan, situated 
between the 29th and 30th degrees of north latitude, and bounded on the east 
by the Indus. This tract does not exceed 50 miles in length or breadth, but the 
soil is extremely fruitful, and yields a great revenue. The population is entirely 
composed of Juts, with the exception of a few Afghans and other accidental! 
settlers. The climate is cooler in summer than that of Cutch Gundava, and in \ 
winter is equally mild. A considerable traffic is carried on from hence by means ' 
of the Indus, boats ascending to Mooltan and Attock, or descending to Hydera- 
bad and Tatta. The chief town here is named Hurrund, and the second Dajel. 
At the first a governor resides, appointed by Mahmood Khan, and, on account of 
his distance from the seat of government, is entrusted with, extraordinary powers, 
extending even to life and death. — ( Pottinger, §c.) 

Sewistan. — A large provinoe of Baloochistan, consisting of a stupendous 
range of mountains, extending southwards from Candahar, and only accessible 
by passes of extreme difficulty. It is divided into the districts of Jhalawan to 
the southward, and Saharawan to the northward, which includes Nooshky in 
the desert, and Moostung and Shal to the northward. Each of these sections 
is subdivided into Tuks or Zillahs, furnishing quotas of troops for service, but 
paying no tribute. The climate of Sewistan is dry, and, from its great eleva- 
tion, excessively cold in winter. By^Abul Fazel, in 1582, it is described as 
follows: — “ Circar Sewistan, containing nine mahals, revenue 15,546,803 
dams.” — ( Christie, Kinneir, 8$c.) 

. Nomurdies ( Natnradiya ). — When Abul Fazel wrote, in 1582, one of the chief 
tribe of Balooqhees was named Nomurdies, as appears by his description of 
them: viz. Another chain of mountains runs from Sehwan to Sewee, where it 
is called Khuttee. Here dwell a tribe named Nomurdy, who can raise 300 
cavalry and 700 infantry. At the foot of this territory is another tribe of Baloo- 
ches named Tehzeng, who have a thousand choice troops. There is another 
range of mountains, one extremity of which is on Cutch, and the other joins the 
territories of the Kulmainies, where it «s called Kareh. It is inhabited by 4000 
Balooches." — ( Abul Fazel, 8$e.) 



AFGHANISTAN. 

(af-ghani-st'han.) 


This extensive country is bounded on the north by the Hindoo Cosh mountains, 
and the Paropamisan range. The Indus is its boundary to the east as far south 
as latitude 32° 20' N. The plain on the right bank of the Indus south of that 
latitude is inhabited by Balooches ; but the chain of the Soliman mountains, 
with its subordinate ranges, and the country immediately at their base, belongs 
to the Afghans. The hills which bound Sewistan on the north, form the southern 
limit of the Afghan territory. Immediately to the north of these hills the Afghan 
country does not at first extend so far west as to reach the table land of Kelat, 
but afterwards stretches past it on the north, and reaches to the desert, which 
is its north-western boundary. These countries are extremely various in their 
level, climate, soil, and productions. The whole of Afghanistan west of the 
Soliman ridge is a table land, lying higher than most of the neighbouring pro- 
vinces. The Hindoo Cosh chain, which forms the northern boundary of 
Afghanistan, looks down on the land of Bulk ; on the east, it is in proportion 
elevated above the still lower plain of the Indus. On the south, it overlooks 
Sewistan ; the deep valley of Bolaun on the S. W. runs between it and Ba- 
loochistan. On the west it slopes gradually down to the desert ; and on the N. 
W. the appearance of elevation is lost as it approaches the Paropamisan moun- 
tains. The Afghans have no general name for their country ; but that of Afgha- 
nistan, which was probably first applied by the Persians, is frequently used in 
books, and is not unknown to the natives of the country thus designated. The 
section of the Afghan country io the west of the parallel of Mukloor (longitude 
68°30'E.) is comprehended in the extensive province of Khorasan. 

For so great a space of country Afghanistan possesses but few large rivers. 
Except the Indus, there is no river inthis region that is not fordable throughout 
its course during the greater part of the year. The largest partake of the cha- 
racter of tonrents, and although they frequently rush down with a heavy flood, 
they soon run off and leave the hollow bed nearly empty. Their volume of 
water is also much reduced by the number of small channels that are cut for the 



AFGHANISTAN. 


536 

purposes of irrigation, by which a large stream is sometimes entirely drawn, off 
before it reaches any other river ; and it may be remarked of the rivers of this 
region, that their bulk at their mouths is never equal to the expectation they 
raise when seen emerging from the mountains. The Indus alone is always navi- 
gable, although so little use is made of its channel. The names of the principal 
rivers and streams, besides the Indus, are the Cabul river, the Cashgar, the Koo- 
rum, and the Gomul, which flow towards the east ; those running to the west 
are the Helmund or Etymander, the Urghundaub, the Khooshrood, the Furrah- 
rood, and the Lora. There is only one small lake, situated to the south-west of 
Ghizni. I 

In Afghanistan the south-west monsoon is felt with much less violence than in\ 
India, being exhausted at no great distance from the sea, and not at all percepti- 
ble at Candahar. A remarkable exception however to this rule is observed in 
the north-eastern quarter of Afghanistan, which, although much more remote from 
the sea than Candahar, is subject to the monsoon, which it receives from the 
east. The countries under Hindoo Cosh, such as Puckely, Beneer, and Sewad, 
have all a share of the monsoon rains, which diminish as they go West, and at 
Sewad are reduced to a month of clouds, with occasional showers about the 
conclusion of July and beginning of August. During this short period the 
monsoon appears, in some ouds and showers at Peshawer, and in the Bungish 
and Khuttak countries. It is still less felt in the valley of the Cabul river, 
where it does not extend beyond Lughman ; but in Bajour and Punjcora, under 
the southern projection of the Hindoo Cosh, in part of the Caffry country situ- 
ated on the top of that promontory, and in Teera near the Tuhkt6 Soliman, the 
S. W. monsoon is heavy, and forms the principal rains of the year. 

The climate of Afghanistan varies extremely in different parts of the country, 
partly owing to the difference of latitude, but much more to the greater or less 
elevation of the various provinces. The direction of the winds also is of ma- 
terial influence. Some blow over ridges of snowy mountains, others are heated 
in summer, and rendered cold in winter, by their passage over deserts. Some . 
districts are refreshed in summer by breezes from moister countries, while 
others are so enclosed by hills as to be inaccessible to any wind. The extremes 
of heat and cold are $so experienced, for while in the sultry valley of Peshawer 
the thermometer rises to 113° of Fahrenheit, the lofty peaks of the Hindoo 
Cosh, in sight, remain covered with never melting snow. The prevailing wind 
throughout Afghanistan is from the west, and it is remarked by the natives that 
westerly winds are cold while easterly are hot. The character of the climate 
generally is decidedly dry, being little subject to rain, clouds, or fogs* The 
annual heat on an average is greater than that of England, but less than that of 



AFGHANISTAN. 


537 

India, while the difference of temperature between summer and winter, and 
even between day and night, is greater than in either of these countries. If an 
inference may be drawn from the size, strength, and activity of the inhabitants, 
the territory may be pronounced favourable to the human constitution, and many 
districts are remarkable for their salubrity. Fevers and agues are common in 
autumn, and are also felt in spring. Colds are very troublesome, and during 
winter dangerous'. The small pox carries off a great many, although inoccula- 
tion has long been practised in the most remote parts of the kingdom. Ophthal- 
mia also is common. 

To the traveller, the Afghan country presents wild unfrequented deserts, anck 
mountains covered with perennial snow. Even among the cultivated districts he 
will discover a wild assemblage of hills and wastes without enclosures, unem- 
bellished by trees, and destitute of navigable canals, public roads, and all the 
elaborate productions of human civilization, while the towns will be found few 
and remote from each other. On the other hand, he would be struck with the 
population and fertility of particular plains and vallies, where he would dis- 
cover the productions of Europe mingled with those of the torrid zone, and the 
land improved with the utmost industry. In other parts the inhabitants would 
be found following their flocks, dwelling in tents, or stationary in villages, com- 
posed of mud-built walls with terraced roofs. 

In Afghanistan there are five classes of cultivators, viz. : — 1st. Proprietors, 
who cultivate their own lands ; 2d. Tenants who hire it for a money rent, or for 
a fixed proportion of the produce ; 3d. Buzgurs, who are the same as the me- 
tayers in France ; 4th. Hired labourers ; 5th. Vassals, who till their lord’s 
land without wages. The land on the whole is more equally divided than in 
most countries, Afghanistan containing a great number of small proprietors. The 
common lease is one and two years, the best five ; the value of land is estimated 
at about 12 years purchase. In most parts of this territory there are two har- 
vests in the year, one of which is sown the end of autumn, and reaped in sum- 
mer ; the other is sown the end of spring, and reaped in autumn. Wheat is the 
food of the people in the greatest proportion of the country, the barley raised 
being commonly given to horses. Rice is also generally found, but is most 
abundant in Sewad, best at Peshawer, and is almost the only food of the inha* 
bitants of Cashmere. Garden vegetables of all sorts are plentiful and excel- 
lent, but most of the sugar is brought from Hindostan. Cotton, with a few 
exceptions, is confined to the hot districts, little, however, is manufactured, a 
great proportion of the cotton cloth used being imported from India. The 
palma Cfiristi, or castor-oil plant, is common, and supplies a great part of the 
oil used. Madder abounds in the cold climates of the west, where also the 
VOL. 11 , 3 z 



AFGHANISTAN. 


538 

assafetida plant is found wild. Vast quantities of this last mentioned drug are 
exported to India, where it forms a favourite ingredient in the cookery of both 
Hindoos and Mahommedans. Tobacco is produced in most parts of Afghanistan. 

The grain is converted to flower by windmills, watermills, or handmiils, the 
first being common only in the west, where a steady wind can be relied on for at 
least four months of the year. There are many ruins of old windmills as far east 
as Cabul and Ghizni, the sails of which appear to have been enclosed within the 
building, the ^ind having access by an opening. The wheel of the watermills is 
horizontal. Horses are employed tp draw the plough in Turkistan, and ttye 
Eimauk country, but nowhere else in Afghanistan ; nor are they emploved for 
this purpose in cither Persia or Hindostan, that task in all the three being usuV 
ally assigned to oxen and buffaloes, although in particular parts of the first^ 
camels and asses are also used. A considerable number of horses are reared in 
the Afghan dominions * those from Herat are reckoned particularly good, some 
of them having the figure of an Arab with superior size. A good breed of the 
Indian sort, named Tazee, is found in Bunnoo and Damaun, and excellent horses 
of the same description are bred between the Hydaspes and the Indus ; but 
excepting those from the province of Bulk, which arc excellent, the horses of the 
Afghan territories have not a very good character. 

Cornels are the animals mostly employed for carriage. The dromedary is found 
in all the plain country, especially in the dry and sandy parts, and is the tall long 
legged animal common in India. The Bactrian camel is more rare, and is a third 
lower than the other, but very stout. He is covered with black shaggy hair, and 
has two distinct humps instead of one bunch like the dromedary. The best oxen 
are imported from the Rajpoot country. The great stock of the pastoral tribes 
is sheep of the species having tails a foot broad, almost entirely composed of 
fat. Various breeds of goats, some with long twisted horns, are common among 
the mountains. The dogs of Afghanistan are excellent, particularly the grey- 
hounds and pointers ; the cats are the long haired sort, known in Europe by the 
name of Persian cats. There are three sorts of eagles, and many kinds of 
hawks, which are trained to the chace. The chirk species are taught to strike 
the antelope, and fasten on its head until the greyhounds come up. Among the 
other birds, herons, cranes, storks, wild ducks, geese, partridges, pigeons, crows, 
and sparrows are common, cuckoos rare, and magpies numerous, while peacocks 
are unknown. The snakes and scorpions of this country are large ; there are no 
alligators, fish are scarce, and turtles and tortoises plenty. Flights of locusts are 
not of frequent occurrence, bees are common, but musquitoes, except in the hot 
tracts, give but little annoyance. Among the wild animals, lions aiesaid to be found 
in the hilly country aoout tne city of Cabal, but this appears improbable ; tigers 



AFGHANISTAN. Si 

arc principally seen in the low country along the Indus ; wolves, hyaenas, foxes, and 
hares, are common everywhere. Bears are found among the woody mountains, but 
they seldom quit their recesses except when allured by a field of sugar cane. 
There are two kinds, one the common black bear of India, and the other of a 
dirty white or yellow colour. Wild boars are rare, but a great variety of deer, 
including the elk, abound among the mountains. Wild sheep and wild goats 
are common, besides which there are porcupines, hedgehogs, mungooses, fer- 
rets, wild dogs and monkies ; elephants arc brought from Hindustan, neither 
that animal nor the rhinoceros being found in a w ild state. 

Many European trees are indigenous to Afghanistan, where most of the finest 
European fruits grow wild. The commonest trees in the mountains are firs, one 
of which has cones larger than artichokes, containing seeds resembling pistachio 
nuts. Among other trees are two sorts of oaks, cedars, a gigantic species of 
cypress, the walnut, and the wild olive. It is said some of the hills produce 
the birch, holly, and hazel, and in the Hindoo Cosh mountains tne pistachio 
grows wild ; on the plains, the mulberry, tamarisk, and willow, are the most 
abundant ; English flowers, such as jessamines, poppies, narcissuses, hyacinths, 
tuberoses, & c. are raised in gardens. Afghanistan having been but little ex- 
plored, not much is known respecting its mineral riches. Gold is said to flow r 
in some of the streams from the Hindoo Cosh mountains, small quantities of 
silver are found in Caffristnn, rubies in Badukshan, and cliffs containing lapis 
lazuli are supposed to overhang the Cashgar river. Lead, iron, and antimony, 
are found in different tracts, sulphur, rock salt from the salt range of mountains, 
saltpetre is made everywhere, aium is extracted from the clay at Calabaugh, 
and orpiment is procured from Bulk and the llazareli countries. 

Afghanistan being an inland country destitute of navigable rivers, and roads 
suited to wheel-carriages, commerce is necessarily, carried on by employing 
beasts of burthen, of w hich camels arc the best, as well from their strength and 
patience of thirst, as from the ease with which they are fed on any kind of bush 
or vegetable. The caravans to Turkistan, on account of the mountainous roads, 
are composed of horses and pomes. Those w hich go to Chinese Turkistan set 
out from Cashmere and Peshawar ; Cabul is liie great mart of Independent 
Turkistan; Candahar and Herat for Persia; the Hindostan trade is more di- 
vided. That of the Punjab and north of Ilindostan comes to Peshawer, while 
that which crosses the desert of Rajpootana, and tne countries still further south, 
comes to Shikarpoor, Bahawmlpoor, and Mooltan. The trad.e by sea arrives at 
Cor&chic, and is thence transported to Shikarpoor and Candahar. The chief 
trade of the Afghan dominions is with India, Persia, and Turkistan (both Inde- 
pendent and Chinese) ; that with Caffristan is trifling. A sort of cloth made of 



AFGHANISTAN. 


540 

shawl wool is imported from Tibet, and an intercourse with Arabia is maintained 
through the ports of Sinde ; but the trade with Hindostan is by far the most 
considerable. 

The exports to that quarter from Afghanistan consist principally of horses and 
ponies, furs, shawls, madder, assafoetida, tobacco, almonds, pistachio nuts, wal- 
nuts, hazel nuts, and fruits both fresh and dried. The imports from India are 
coarse cotton cloths (the general dress), muslins, and other fine manufactures, some 
kinds of silken cloth and brocades, indigo in large quantities, ivory, chalk, bam- 
boos, wax, tiij, sandal wood, and almost all the sugar used in the country. Some 
little broad cloth is also imported, but this article comes mostly by the way o 
Bokhara. Musk, coral, drugs, and some other unimportant articles, are also im- 
ported. A very great branch of the imports from India are spices, which ar^ 
carried from Bombay and the Malabar coast to Corachie, and thence by land to 
Cabul and Candahar. Cowries also come by this route, through which horses 
are exported. 

The exports to Independent Turkistan are composed principally of commo- 
dities that have been previously imported from India. White cloth of all kinds, 
shawls, Indian turbans, Mooltan chintzes, and indigo, are the chief articles. 
The imports from Independent Turkistan are mostly horses, gold, and silver. 
The specie consists of tillas (the gold coin of Bokhara), Dutch ducats, Venetian 
sequins, and ingots of silver from China. Cochineal, broad cloth, puspet, and 
tinsel, together with cast iron pots, cutlery, and other hardware, are im- 
ported from Bokhara, to which place they are brought from Russia, either over- 
land from Orenburgh across the desert, or by water from Astracan to Arul or 
Ming Kishlauk in Argunge. Needles, looking glasses, Russian leather, tin, 
beads, spectacles, and a few other European articles, are also brought by the 
same route. A fine kind of cloth, manufactured of camel’s hair, a quantity of 
cotton, and some lambs’ skins, the produce of the Bokhara territory, are im- 
ported from thence, as are also a few of the doubled humped camels from the 
Kuzzauk country. The exports to Chinese Turkistan are nearly the same as 
those from Bokhara. The imports are woollens of a particular kind, Chinese 
silks and satins, tea in small boxes of the Chinese lead, China ware, porcelain, 
raw silk, cochineal, chrystal, gold dust, golden ingots, and yamboos of silver 
with the Chinese stamp. The trade with Caffristan is of small amount, con- 
sisting of wine, vinegar, cheese, and clarified butter, which are bartered on the 
lrontier for Indian and Cabul cloths, salt, cowries, pewter, and tin. Some slaves 
are also procured from the Caffries, and others are imported from Arabia, Abys- 
sinia, and other quarters, through the ports of Sinde. 



AFGHANISTAN. 541 

Tcf Persia are exported shawls and shawl goods, indigo, Herat carpets, Mool- 
tan chintzes, Indian brocades, muslins, and other cotton goods. The shawfs 
exported to Persia are of a pattern entirely different from those seen in Hindos- 
tan, but have lately been prohibited by the Persian monarch, with the view of 
encouraging the manufactures of his own subjects. The import^ from Persia 
are raw silk, silken stuffs, a sort of strong cotton stuff of various colours, and 
silken handkerchiefs used by females, which manufactures arc much used by all 
ranks ; but embroidered satin, velvet, and Persian brocade are confined to the 
great. Coin and bullion are among the imports ; but the most remarkable are 
Masulipatam chintzes, which are brought by the Bushire route, and carried from 
thence by land to Afghanistan, where they are much used. In so extensive and 
diversified a region, it is obvious that much internal commerce must prevail. 
The principal articles carried from the western country to the eastern are wool- 
lens, furs, madder, cheese, cooroot, and also some manufactures, such as Herat 
carpets, and the finer articles of dress and equipment. 7 From the east are car- 
ried longees, silk, and chintz of Mooltan, the mixed silk and cotton cloth of 
Bahawulpoor, together with indigo and some cotton. Iron is exported from the 
mountainous countries in Hindoo Cosh and the range of Soliman, salt from the 
salt range, alum and sulphur from Cnlabaugh, horses from Bulk, laud coco nuts 
and dates from Baloochistan. 

The horse trade is one of considerable importance. A great number of horses 
are annually sold in the north of India under the name of Cabul horses, and iq 
the west under that of Candahar horses ; but almost the whole of these come 
from Turkistan. No horses are bred at Cabul, except by men of property for 
their own use, nor are the horses bred about Candahar exported. Some of the 
fine houses from the neighbourhood of Herat are carried to other countries ; bill 
few or none to India. A considerable number of horses are exported from Ba- 
loochistan, as are also some of the fine breed found on both sides of the Indus 
in the country north of the salt range. The, great breeding country in the 
Afghan dominions is Bulk, from which quarter, and from the Turkman country, 
lower down the Oxus river, a great proportion of the horses exported are 
brought. There are two sorts of horses mostly dealt in, one rather small but 
very stout, the other much larger, and more valued on that account tthough not 
near so serviceable, except for war, when, owing to the Asiatic mode of fighting, 
siaeisof importance. ITie first are called Toorkees or Uzbekees, the second 
Turkmanees. The great marts are Bulk and Bokhara, where Toorhees sell for 
from £5 to £20, and Turkmanees from £20 to 100. Of late years, the .exportation 
to India has been rapidly decreasing, owing to, the extension of the British 
possessions, where small bodies of disciplined infantry are substituted for large 



AFGHANISTAN. 


543 

bodies of horse ; and in proportion as the circle of their depredations has been 
circumscribed, the native armies have been also diminished and modified by 
a greater admixture of infantry. 

The origin of the term Afghan has never been satisfactorily ascertained, but is 
probably pf modern date, being known to the Afghan nation only through the 
medium of the Persian. The name by which they designate themselves is 
Pooshtoon, in the plural Pooshtaneh ; which word by the Ber Dummies is 
pronounced Pooktauneh, whence, it is possible, the name Patan, by which 
the Afghans are known in India, may be derived. By Arabians they ire 
called Solimanee. They have no general name for their own country, but some- 
times apply the Persian one of Afghanistan. The name most usually applied io 
the whole country by its inhabitants is Kliorassan, which is obviously incorrect. 
The Afghans describe themselves as having originally sprung in four divisions 
from the four sons of Kyse Aboorcsheed, named Scrrabim, Ghoorghoosht, Betnee, 
and Kurleh, from whom originate the innumerable tribes, branches, and subdi- 
visions that at present exist. The name of Ooloos is applied either to a whole 
tribe, or to an independent branch ; the import of the word meaning a sort of 
clannish commonwealth. Khail means a band or assemblage, and Zci means 
sons. Throughout all the tribes, the clannish attachment of the Afghans, unlike 
that of the Scottish highlanders, is rathex to the community than to the chief, 
who has but little power, and it is but rarely that the personal interests of its 
khan or chief, will influence a tribe to any action inconsistent with its own in- 
terest or honour. 

The general law of the empire is that of Mahommed, which also prevails 
among the tribes in civil actions ; but their peculiar code is the P oosht oonwullee, 
or usages of the Afghans, a rude and primitive system, from which the opinion 
that it is every man's duty to revenge his own injuries is by no means excluded, 
and is a source of endless intestine feuds and bloodshed, in consequence of the 
retaliations exercised. In cases of murder, when a compromise takes place, the 
expiation is made among the Western Afghans, by giving twelve young women in 
marriage to the person aggrieved and his relations, six with portions and six 
without. The portion among the common people is sixty rupees, or £7 sterling, 
partly in goods. For cutting off an hand, an car, or a "ose, six women are 
given ; for breaking a tooth three ; and for a wound in the forehead one. Among 
the Eastern Afghans fewer young women are given, and mote money* The 
Afghan laws thus giving the right of revenging injuries, all motives for conceal- 
ment are taken away, the courts of arbitration are consequently more employ®*! 
in judging of the circumstances that justified the offence, than in establishing the 
perpetration of the fact. Slaves are common m Afghanistan, mostly home-bqnt, 



AFGHANISTAN. 


545 

the rest imported. Abyssinians and negroes are sometimes brought from Arabia ; 
the Balooches sell Persians, and other prisoners; and many Cattries are pur- 
chased or made prisoners. The Caffry captives are generally females, and much 
sought after on account of their beauty. 

The Afghan men are of robust make, generally lean, but strong and muscular, 
with high noses and cheek bones, and long faces. Their hair and beards are 
generally black, sometimes brown, but rarely red. The Western Afghans are 
stouter than those of the east, and some of surprising strength and stature ; but 
in the aggregate not so tall as the British nations. Their manners are frank and 
open, but entirely free from the affectation of military pride and ferocity so 
disgusting among the Patans of India. By the Persians, the Afghans are accused 
of barbarism and stupidity, because they want the subtlety and mendacity of the 
former, and are remarkable among the eastern nations for their veracity. Their 
ruling passion is the love of gain, and hoarding a favourite system with all 
classes, the influence of money being nearly unbounded. They are proud of 
their descent, and great supporters of genealogies. To their immediate depen- 
dants they are kind, but the reverse to those who are under them without any 
personal connection, on which account the more remote provinces which they 
have subdued, such as Cashmere, suffer greatly from their rapacity. Their vices 
are those of revenge, envy, avarice, rapacity, and obstinacy; but on the other 
hand, they are fond of independence, faithful to each other, kind to their imme- 
diate dependants, hospitable, brave, hardy, frugal, laborious, prudent, and are, 
on the whole, at least in their native country, much less voluptuous, debauched, 
and dishonest, than their neighbours the Persians and Hindostanics. 

The above favourable character must be in a great degree restricted to the 
inhabitants of the country, for the greater part of the sedentary town population 
are not Afghans. No genuine Afghan ever keeps a shop, or exercises any handi- 
craft trade, these vocations being mostly occupied by Tajiks (whose language is 
Persian) and Hindikees, a people of Indian origin. The only Afghans who 
reside in towns are great men and their followers, soldiers, moollahs, a few who 
follow commerce, and some of the very poorest who work as labourers. The 
prohibition in the Koran against Mahommedans taking interest for money, de- 
volves most of the banking business to the Hindoos, for which, from their cautiou 
and penurious habits, they are admirably suited. The Tajiks of Afghanistan are 
everywhere remarkable for their use of fixed habitations, and their disposition 
to agriculture, and other stationary occupations. They compose the principal 
part of the population round Cabul, Candahar, Ghizni, Herat, and Bulk; but 
they are few in the wild parts of the country. The whole number in the Cabul 
dominions has been estimated at 1,500,000 persons. The Hindikees are more 



AFGHANISTAN. 


numerous than the Tajiks, and all of Indian descent ; their language is a kind of 
Hindostany resembling the Punjaub dialect. Brahminical Hindoos are found 
a(l over Cabul, especially in the towns, where they carry on the trades of brokers, 
merchants, bankers, goldsmiths, grain -sellers, & c. 8cc. They are almost all of 
the Khetri (military) tribe, yet none follow the martial profession, and they are 
by no means strict in their adhesion to Hindoo prejudices. 

The food of the common people in Afghanistan is leavened bread, rice, flesh, 
vegetables, sometimes cheese, and always dried curds. Provisions are very 
cheap, and fruit so abundant, that in the city of Cabul grapes are dear when theV 
sell for more than one farthing per pound. Nuts of all sorts are in profusions 
and vegetables are low priced, as are also coriander seeds, turmeric, and ginger) 
In theCohistan or hilly country, the chief subsistence of the people is derived from\ 
their numerous plantations of mulberry trees, the fruit of which is dried in the 
sun/ then ground into flower, and afterwards made into bread. It has been cal- 
culated that the produce of an acre of mulberries, will support a greater number 
of persons) than one under regular tillage. 

The Afghan nation being composed of the aggregate of many distinct tribes, 
cannot be properly described, without particularly referring to each distinct 
body ; but these subdivisions are so minute and extended that it is impossible 
even to enumerate them, and in point of strength and population each tribe 
fluctuates almost annually. At present those of most importance are the 


Durrannies (formerly the Abdallies) 
Ghiljies. 

Y usephzek 
Deggauns 

Kizzelbash68(of Persian origin). 
Turcoianies. ^ 

Khyberies. f 

Bungish. ( Durrani^ 

Otman Khail. * 


Khuttuks. r 
Delazauks. ) 
Momunds. 
Khuttuks. 
Vizieries. 
Wurducks. 
Caukers, and 
Naussers. 


Durranies. 


The Hazarehs and Eimauks, who now inhabit what is supposed to have been 
the original Afghan country, differ entirely from that nation in appearance; Ian* 
guage, and manners, but bear a strong resemblance to the Toorky tribes in their 
neighbourhood. The king is’ the natural head of the Durranies, the greatest, 
bravest, and most civilized tribe ; but he is obliged to pay great attention to the 
wishes, of the different clans that compose it. The tribes that inhabit the north- „ 
eastern -quarter, inclosed bet ween the Hindoo Cosh mountains and the Indus 
the salt range, and the range of Soliman, are comprehended under the genera 
Mae of Bcrdurranie& first given them by Ahmed Shah. They are mostly agri 



AFGHANISTAN. 545 

cultural, but subdivided into numerous little societies. The Dummies had for- 
merly the name of Abdallies, until it was changed to Dummies by Ahmed Shab, 
in consequence of the dream of a famous saint at Chumkunee, 'and upon this 
event he assumed the title of Shah Dooree Dooraun. Of all the clans into 
which this tribe is partitioned, the Populzei is the most eminent, and of this 
clan the Suddozei family fills the throne, and is held peculiarly sacred. The 
whole population of the Durrany country may be considered as exceeding 
800,000 souls. 

The upper corner of Afghanistan north of the Cabul river, and west of the 
Indus, is occupied by the Yusephzei tribe# who inhabit also the country among 
the hills named Beneer, Sewad, and Punjcora, some of this tribe extend to the 
Indus* They have possessed the countries they now inhabit for 300 years, but 
came originally from the west about Garra and Nooshky. The territory was 
then possessed by the Delazauks, who were gradually expelled or exterminated 
by the Yusephzeis. At present the latter are a very numerous tribe, separated 
into many little communities, chiefly under an apparently democratic constitu- 
tion, and notwithstanding their turbulence and internal discord, their country is 
well cultivated, and their villages ' and water-courses in excellent condition. 
They do not acknowledge the slightest subjection to the Cabul sovereign, but, 
on the contrary, set him at defiance. A famous saint of their own tribe is said 
to have left them a blessing and a curse, that “ they should always be free but 
never united.” In consequence . of their interminable feuds, there is scarcely a 
man of any note who is not constantly on the watch for his life. In every* 
village men are seen clad in armour, and others are surrounded by hired soldiers. 
Each injury produces fresh retaliations, hence ambuscades, sudden attacks in 
the streets, murder in their houses, with the consequent distrust, alarm, and 
confusion. It is not possible to enumerate all the little republics of the 
Yusephzeis, independent of each other. The whole population has been esti- 
mated at 700,000 souls, but more than half of these are the peasantry (here 
named Fakeers} who labour for the Yusephzeis. These Fakeers have the 
liberty of removing from the lands of one master to those of another, and even 
to o distinct community, which privilege is their great protection against 
oppression. 

1 TkGCfWk&ot Cabul Is hereditary in that branch of the Suddozei family, which 
is descended from Ahmed Shah Abdalli, but there is no fixed rule for its do* 
scendiag to the oldest son. The whole of the royal family, except those espe- 
cially favoured by the reigning sovereign, are imprisoned in the upper citadel of 
Cabul city* where they are well treated, but strictly confined* The king's title is 
Shaky Dooree Dooraun. He has the exclusive privilege of coining, and is prayed 

rn.li. 4 a 



546 AFGHANISTAN. 

for in the Khootbeh, a part of the Mahommedan religious service. He has tile 
right of making peace and declaring war, but cannot cede any portion of the 
territory occupied by the Afghan tribes, who have generally shewn no desire for 
western conquests, and it was a death-bed injunction from Ahmed Shah to his 
sons, to avoid attacking the Uzbeks, whom he designated a “ hive without 
honey.” Indeed the majority of the Afghans meddle little with external politics, 
and possess but scanty information regarding the neighbouring states, having no 
news-writers as in Hindostan, and but few ambassadors. The general adminis- 
tration is conducted by the king, with the assistance of the grand Viz er, who 
ought to be appointed from the clan of Baumzei. Next to the Vizier are the 
head secretary (Moonshee Bashi), the superintendant of the intelligence depart- 
ment (Hercarrah Bashi), and the superintendant of punishments (Nasukher 
Bashi). The station of Arz Beggee is hereditary in the family of Akram Khani 
The duty of this functionary is to repeat, in an audible voice, to the king any^ 
thing that is said by his subjects when admitted to his presence, and his office, 
as may be supposed, is of considerable importance. 

The whole kingdom is subdivided into 27 provinces, eighteen of which have 
each a separate governor or hakim, who collects the revenue and commands the 
militia, and a sirdar or general who commands the regulars ; but sometimes both i 
these offices are united. The 18 provinces thus administered are Herat, Furrah, 
Candahar, Ghizni, Cabul, Bamian, Ghorebund, Jellalabad, Lughman, Peshawer, 
Dera Ismael Khan, Dera Ghazi Khan, Shekarpoor, Sewee, Sinde, Cashmere, 
Chuch Hazareh, Leia, and Mooltan ; some of which are at present but little 
under the royal controul. The other nine divisions are usually composed of 
countries belonging to Afghan tribes, and governed by chiefs removeable at 
pleasure ; but it is customary to preserve the offices in certain families. 

In settled times the revenue of Cabul has been reckoned near three millions 
sterling, but the real revenue seldom amounts to two millions, and of this a great 
proportion is assigned away in military jaghire. The principal source is the land 
revenue. The salaries of the great civil officers are small, apd they are in a 
great measure maintained by bribes and perquisites. 

In the cities, justice is administered by the Cazies, the Mufti, the Ameeni 
Mehkemeh, and the Daroga of the Adawlet. In the country, the landholders are 
answerable for the police, which is in most parts very bad. The established 
army consists of Dummies, Gholaumi Shahs, and Karra Nokur, besides which 
there is a sort of militia named Eeljauree. The first are obliged to furnish 
nearly 12,000 men. The establishment of the second is above 13,000, and they 
axe commanded by officers, the personal attendants on the king, many of them 
eunuchs. The Karra Nokur in time of war are fmuished by the landholders at 



Ar\jjnAm»XAjN. 547 

L?lt merly fixed ' The co “ duct of the Durranies (the ruling tribe) in their 
ZSZTJS'Z * Yery m r Mea ° f thdr militar y ch ^ter Their armies 
diIw o T Vw d0m exceedmg 10 ’ 000 men of a side > and these M paid find 
to the 60 " 6 V v- t0 ^ W dec ‘ ded ky 80me person of consequence going over 

on E : c \ the rr r part °' the ****£ ^ ^ « 

S?f7 battle iS decided by 1116 sword « to little 

S^e cllt J5 7 r ng thC great khans wh0 are interested *» *e 

result, the common soldiers shewing much indifference as to the issue. 

The language of the Afghans is named the Pushtoo ; but its origin is unknown 

ESSSt** W ° rds cannot be traced t0 of the ancient languages! 
tic Fortrii C ° nsidered U t0 he a dialect of the scriptural Chal- 

racter- but as thev J USC the PerS13n alphabet> and generally the Nush cha- 
’ bat a ® the y have some sounds not expressible by any Persian letter 

iiatr by addiDg a diStinCtiVe P° int OT «“* * the Z 2 
^ DCareSt m S0UDd - In a Specimen of th * Prayer in the 

SSStw Z S10mne8 C ° Uld SCarCe, y trace words to the Sanscrit! 
H ndltanv Ti * S bein * CUrrent in the Bengalese and 

ihl 18 T7Tff 17 eVident that the lai “W derived from toe Sans- 

dialect to th ?, a ! ^ fghanistan > whlch idea is confirmed by the Baloochy 
dialect to the south of that region. The Pushtoo, although rough is a manlv 

ofThTflo n °:r Plea t g t0 an ^ accustomed to the oriental tongues; None 
of the famous authors in this dialect are more than one century and a half old 

Zl e l7T1 ly V° 0kSin thelangua * e niore than double that'an- 
are chieflv wf !v. be , ing m ° Stly ° f Persian origin - Their P rose authors 
par ticular periods 8 of tb 6 ° ° gy &nd law; but tbey bave 1180 severa l histories of 
hWif T r r n transactions - The books written in Pushtoo. 
Persian 0 “ “ gi ! iag an y , sta ndard of the national learning, 

The manners f th aa ?“ ase ln which a ll scientific works are composed. 

The manners of the Afghan tribes differ according to their habits P being sta 

fTT ior above a century. The commonest houses are built of bricks one stow 
WUh terraCCS ° r l0W cupolas su PP ort ed by beams: There 

4 A 2 



548 AFGHANISTAN. 

S , 

guest carried off. They are equally remarkable for their rapacity and predatory 
habits, and will next day, if they meet him at a distance, plunder the mdividpat 
they have before hospitably entertained. They acquire their wives by purchase, 
and among them, as among the ancient Jews, it is thought incumbent on the 
brother of the deceased to marry his widow. 

With 'respect to religion the Afghans are all of the Sooni Mahommedan sect,’ 
which acknowledges the three first caliphs as the lawful successors of Mahora- 
med, and opposed to the Shiahs, who reject the three first caliphs as usurpers of 
the right of Ali, the nephew of Mahommed, and the fourth of his successors. A 
bitter enmity between these two sects is the consequence, and the unlearned * 
portion of the Afghans certainly consider a Shiah as more of an infidel than al 
Hindoo, yet all the numerous Persians in the country are Shiahs, and many of' 
them hold high offices in the state and household. Another remarkable sect in 
Cabul is that of the Sophies, which ought perhaps to be considered rather as a 
sect of mystified philosophers than mere sectarians in religion. This class gain 
ground among the higher orders, and such of the Moullahs as are dabblers in 
general literature, to whose taste its mystery and obscure sublimity is admirably 
suited. Another sect, named the Zukkies, from Moullah Zukkee, its first patron, 
hold doctrines hostile to all revelation and the belief of a future state, and are 
said practically to illustrate their doctrines by leading a most dissolute and un- 
principled life. The Roushunea sect was very prevalent in the 16th century, 
but is now nearly extinct. It was founded in the reign of the Emperor Acber, 
by Bajazet Ansari, named by his enemies the apostle of darkness, in derision 
of the title of Peeree Roushen (the apostle of light), which he had assumed. 

Like many of the eastern nations, the Afghans hold their burial grounds in 
high veneration, naming them the cities of the dead. These they people with 
the ghosts of the departed, each sitting at the head of his own grave, although 
invisible to mortal eyes. They also pry into futurity by astrological and geo- 
mantic calculations, and by all kinds of divination and sortilege. The most 
approved modes, however, of discovering the arrangements of providence, are 
either by examining the blade bone of a sheep held up to the lighter by opening 
at random the Koran or the poems of Hafez. 

The Afghans themselves assert, that they are descended from Afghan* the nop 
of Irmia or Berkia, the son of Saul, king of Israel ; but this derivation rests only 
on vague tradition. The Mahommedan chronicles mention Rajas of Cabul in 
ancient times, but this proves no fact, as the same writers call the Hindoos 
Guebres, and apply the term Raja without sufficient discrimination. 

According to foreign historians they appear at a very remote period to have 
occupied the mountains of Ghore and Soliman, and Ferishta mentions their . 



AFGHANISTAN. 540 

inhabiting the north-eastern quarter of Afghanistan in the ninth century. At that 
or a certain territories of Afghanistan were conquered by the Khansuof Bokhara, 
of the Samani race, and annexed to the Tartar principality of Khorasan, from 
whence a subordinate chief was deputed to govern at Ghizni ; but it does not 
appear that the northern part of the country was subdued until the reign of 
Mqhmood. No substantial tradition of the Afghans is found on record until the 
year A. D. 997, when Sebuctaghi, a Tartar officer in the service of the Khorasan 
chief,. (who at that period was himself subject to Munsur, at Samani, the great 
khan of Bokhara), succeeded to the territory, renounced the Tartar vassalage, 
and extending his conquests to Afghanistan, made Ghizni the capital of his 
empire. 

The rest of the Ghiznavi dominions, comprehending a great portion of Persia 
and Hindostan, were chiefly acquired by Maiimood, the son and successor of 
Sebuctaghi, and it is probable the Afghans composed a large proportion of the 
armies led by that conqueror. This dynasty flourished for the space of 207 
years, until A. D. 1159, when the power was wrested from it by the Afghan, Ma-. 
horamed Ghori. This prince left to a favourite slave, named Eldoze, his posses- 
sions west of the Indus, which were soon overrun by the Persian prince of 
Kharizm, whose successor Jellal ud Deen was conquered and expelled by Gengis 
Khan. From that period until the invasion of Tamerlane, the Afghan history is 
involved in obscurity. In the year 1361, Ferishta mentions that Mahmood, a 
Patan king of Delhi, drove the Moguls from Ghizni, and annexed it to the em- 
pire of Hindostan. IHs probable that city remained subject to the Delhi throne 
until Timours invasion of Hindostan, when the northern quarter of Afghanistan 
became a Mogul province. 

After Timours death, when the great fabric of the.Samarcand Mogul empire 
fell to pieces, we may presume this territory was governed by its native chiefs 
until 1506, at which period the Emperor Baber, prior to his invasion of Bin- 
dostan, seized on Cabul and Ghizni, which, with Candahar occasionally, were 
held by his posterity, until the death of Aurengzebe, who in 1678 subdued Sc 
insurrection of the Afghans ; but after the death of that monarch its subjection 
was scarcely nominal. About A. D. 1720, the Afghans (principally the Ghiljie 
tribes) under their native ’chiefs conquered Persia and took Ispahan ; but in 1737 
were expelled by Nadir Shah from that country, and had their own subjugated. 
In 1739, after the capture of Delhi by Nadir Shah, Afghanistan was by treaty 
annexed to the Persian empire. 

The early history of the Dummies is but little known* They appear to 
have been entirely independent until the beginning of the 17th century, when 
being pressed by die Usbeks, they agreed to pay tribute to Persia for protection. 



AFGHANISTAN. 


550 

At this date they were mostly settled in the mountains about the city of Herat, 
and remained in obscurity until they were attacked and conquered by Nadir 
Shah in 1728, who compelled a large body of them to join his army: On his 
assassination in 1747, Ahmed Shah, the chief of the Dummies, fought his way 
though the greater part of Khorasan, and passing the. fortified places repaired 
to Candahar with a force not exceeding 2 or 3000 horse. On his arrival he 
found that a treasure going from India to Nadir had just been stopped there, 
which after some contention and bloodshed he managed to make himself master 
of, and in October, 1747, was crowned at Candahar, being then only in his 24th 
year. In 1748, he marched from Candahar with an army of 12,000‘men, reduced 
the Ghiljies, and expelled Nadir Shah’s governor from Ghizni. The governor of 
Cabul declared for the Emperor of Delhi, but was, after a feeble resistance, 
driven across the Indus, and closely pursued by Ahmed, who drove him froqi 
Attock and Chucli, from whence he proceeded to the invasion of Hindostanl 
During several succeeding years he extended his dominions on all sides, and 
repeatedly visited Delhi as a conqueror. By a decisive and sanguinary victory 
at Paniput in 1761, he arrested the progress of the Maharatta conquests, which 
menaced the Mahommedan princes with total expulsion from Hindostan, and 'in 
17-73, died at Murgha, in his fiftieth year, after a brilliant and enterprising reign* 

He was succeeded by his son Timour Shah, after some opposition from his 
father’s vizier, who was put to death. This prince being of an inactive disposi- 
tion was at an early period obliged to relinquish Lahore to the Seiks ; but to the 
east of the Indus still retained the province of Cashmere, the district of Attock, 
with some scattered portions of Mooltan, and received tribute from the Ameers 
of Sinde. He likewise possessed a large division of Khorasan, which, including 
the city of Herat, extends on tile north to the vicinity of Nishahpr and Tarshish, 
and on the south to the Lesser Irak. Timour died at Cabul on the 20th May, 
1793, and was succeeded by his son Zemaun Shah, after a struggle with his 
oldest brother, and the legitimate heir, whom he deprived of. sight. Zemaun Shah 
spent the greater part of his short reign in attempts to invade Hindostan, from 
whence he was always recalled by the pressure of dangers, which he had left 
unprovided for in the west. Considerable alarm was created by his inarch in 
1797, as his partizans were active all over India, the Rohillas began to take arms, 
and intrigue pervaded all ranks of Mahommedans, even in the remotest regions 
of the south, where the approach of the champion of Islam was anxiously ex- 
pected, but all these hopes were frustrated by the repeated failure of the 
expeditions. 

In A. D. 1800, Zemaun Shah experienced the treatment he had inflicted on 
his brother Humayoon, being in like manner dethroned and blinded by his 



HINDOO COSH MOUNTAINS.] AFGHANISTAN, 551 

younger brother Mahmood, who obtained possession of the perilous eminence 
through the courage, talents, and wickedness of his vizier, Futteh Khan, A new 
series of revolts and insurrections now commenced, which continued until 1803, 
when Mahmood was in his turn expelled by his brother Shuja, who, contrary to 
the usual customs, allowed him to retain his life and eyesight. His clemency, 
however, was ill requited, for in 1809, by the exertions of Futteh Khan, Mah- 
mood was replaced on the Musnud, and Shah Shuja compelled to fly to the hills, 
from whence he repaired to Luddeeanna, where a pension of 4000 rupees per 
month was allowed him by the British government. According to the latest 
Lahore acbars, or native newspapers, Shah Mahmood died some time in 1818, 
on which event Prince Kamraun treacherously seized the vizier, Futteh Khan, and 
put him to death under the most horrid tortures. Runjeet Singh, the Seik chief, 
availing himself of the existing confusion, made an irruption into Cabul, where he 
took and plundered the city of Peshawer, but was forced immediately after to make 
a hasty retreat. If the same authorities are to be credited, his expedition against 
Cashmere was attended with a happier result, as in 1819, Dewan Chund, the 
Seik chief s general, had not only effected the conquest of that romantic valley, 
but also collected the revenue, and organized its government as a permanent 
addition to the Lahore dominions. Of Shah Shuja nothing was known, except 
that in 1&18 he had quitted his asylum at Luddeeanna, and proceeded towards 
Cabul, in the hope of once more regaining the uneasy crown. — ( Elphinstone, 
Forster, 8$c.) 

Hindoo Cosh Mountains. — The range of mountains (a continuation of the 
great Himalaya chain) from the north of Cashmere to the high snowy peak, nearly 
north from the city of Cabul, a distance of about 440 geographical mites, is 
usually distinguished by the name of Hindoo Cosh, but when, as in this instance, 
a chain of hills is of considerable extent, there is great difficulty in assigning a 
just name to the whole, the natives having generally a distinct one for each par- 
ticular point, peak, or section. The ridge has an east and west direction for 
.the above' distance, and appears to wind within 34° and 35° north. From the 
north-east point of Cashmere, it receives the name of Himalaya. From Cash* 
mere to the peak of Hindoo Cosh above mentioned, all the rivers that rise north, 
bf the range have a northwest course, except the Indus and Kameh, which are 
forced to the southward by other high ridges extending at right angles to the. 
main one ; and all the rivers that rise to the south of the Hindoo Cosh chain, have,, 
a southerly course. The height of one of the peaks of this chain, seen from 
Peshawer by the embassy in 1809, was estimated at 20,493 feet, and on the 
range Connected with it the snow remains in June, while the thermometer in the , 
valley of Peshawer rises to 113° of Fahrenheit, 



552 AFGHANISTAN. {cabul. 

Salt Range of Mountains. — A chain of mountains which commences from 
the south-east side of the Suffaid Coh, which is the northern peak of the Soli* 
man mountains in the province of Cabul, from whence it extends in a south* 
easterly direction, by the south of Teree, to Calabaugh, where it crosses the 
Indus, stretches across the Punjab, and ends at Jellalpoor on the right bank of 
the Jhylum or Hydaspes. This range abounds in salt, which is dug out in various 
forms at different places. To the eastward it yields a rock salt of a brownish 
colour, which is used in Hindostan, and known by the name of Lahore salt. 

Soli man Mountains. — A range of high mountains in Afghanistan, running 
nearly north and south, situated to the west of the Indus, between the 29th aAd 
34th degrees of no ithlatude. This ridge commences at the lofty peak nam#4 
the Suffaid Coh, or white mountain, from the perpetual snow that crowns its 
summit. By the Afghans it is named Speenghur, which has the same import in 
the Pushtoo language that Suffaid Coh has in the Persian. The Tukht£ Soli* 
man, or throne of Solomon, was estimated in 1809, by Lieut. Macartney, at 
12,831 feet in height. 


THE KINGDOM OF CABUL. 

The kingdom of Cabul, so named from the city and province, comprehends 
the greater part of Afghanistan, and also some territories beyond the limits of 
that region. On the east it is bounded by Hindostan, where it possesses Cash- 
mere and some tracts on the left bank of the Indus ; on the south it may be 
roughly considered (including tributary countries) as bounded by the sea ; on 
the west a desert extends along the whole frontier ; and its northern limit is 
marked by the mountains of the Eastern Caucasus. According to the nomencla- 
ture of the latest maps it includes Afghanistan and Segistan, with part of Kho- 
rasan and Mekran ; Bulk, with Tokaristan and Kilan ; Caffristan, Cabul, Cauda- 
har, Sinde, and Cashmere, together with a portion of Lahore, and the greater 
part of Mooltan. The total population of these extensive regions was estimated 
by Mr. Elphinstone, in 1809, at 14 millions, in the following proportion, viz. 


Afghans 4,300,000 

Balooches ' 1,000,000 

Tartars of all descriptions . 1,200,000 

Persians and Tajiks 1,500,000 

Indians (Cashmerians, Juft, &c.) 5,700,000 

Miscellaneous tribes 900,000 


Total • 14*000,000 

The modem province of Cabul (occasionally named Zabulistan), with respect 



AFGHANISTAN. 


CABplJ 


553 


to its geography, is divided into two parts, separated by a ridge of very high 
mountains usually covered with snow, which runs from east to west from the 
neighbourhood of Ghizni to that of Deenkote. The tract lying to the north of 
this is named Lughmanat, and to the south Bungishat, each having one or more 
considerable streams intersecting their whole length. The valley of the Cabul 
river separates the southern projection of the Hindoo Cosh, from the mountains 
of Soliman on the south, the interval having the appearance of a breach in a 
continued chain once formed by these ridges. The breach between them is in 
some places 25 miles wide. This valley is occupied towards the east by hills 
that stretch from mountain to mountain, but with inferior elevation. West of 
these hills is Jellalabad ; and still further west the country rises so much^that, 
although Gundamak be in a valley with respect to the southern projection or to 
the lofty erainencies of Soliman, it is on a mountain when compared with. Jella- 
labad. The Cabul river flows through the centre of this space, and into it all 
the vallies in this quarter of Hindoo Cosh open. The chief towns are Cabul, 
Pesbawer, and Ghizni. 

The aspect of the Cabul country is highly diversified, being made up of snowy 
mountains, hills of moderate height, extensive plains and forests 5 but from the 
Indus to the city of Cabul there is an invariable deficiency of wood, insomuch 
that the lower classes of people in the winter season suffer much from a want of 
fuel* Near Baramow there is sandy inhabited valley, 20 miles in length. The 
central districts about the cap ,al, possessing few Indian commodities, receive 
sugar and cotton cioths mostly from Pesbawer, whither they send iron, leather, 
and tobacco. To Candahar are exported iron, leather, and lamp oil, whence 
the returns are made in sundry manufactures of Persia and Europe. The Tartars 
of Bokara bring to Cabul the horses of Turkistan, furs, and hides, tbe latter 
resembling those in Europe termed Bulgar ; the proceeds are applied to the pur- 
chase of indigo and other productions of Hindustan. 

In A. D. 997, when Cabul was invaded by Sebuctaghi, the first sovereign of 
the Ghizni dynasty, the eastern section of the province, although situated to 
the west ot the Indus, was still occupied by Hindoos, subject to a prince of that 
religion, named Jypal, whose capital was named Bathinda, and whose dominions 
extended in a north-west direction from Lahore to Lughmanat, and in a south- 
east line from Cashmere to Mooltan. The whole was finally subdued by Sultan 
Mahmood, about A. D. 1008, and its subsequent history will be found under the 
articles Ghizni and Afghanistan. 

.Cabul, as a modern kingdom, principally attracted attention in the year 1809, 
when in consequence of a confederacy projected by the French with the sultan 
of Persia, for the purpose of invading the Durranv dominions in Afghanistan, 

vox,* 11. 4 b 



554 AFGHANISTAN. [cab*jl. 

and ultimately those of the British government in India, the Honourable Mount- 
stuart Elphinstone was dispatched as ambassador to the Cabul court, on the 
part of Lord Minto, then' Governor General, for the purpose of concerting mu- 
tual measures of defence against the contemplated invasion, and also of explaining 
the friendly and beneficial objects of his mission. The Cabul sovereign, Shah 
Shuja, being sensible of thd advantages likely to accrue from the alliance, 
directed his ministers to confer with Mr. Elphinstone, and conclude arrange- 
ments satisfactory to both nations, which was accordingly done, but no exigence 
ever occurred to render it necessary to call on the Cabul sovereign for the per- 
formance of his engagements, and the dethronement of Shah Shuja immediately! 
afterwards, liberated him from any further responsibility on that score . — ( Elphink 
stone , Forster, Rennell, Treaties, &;c. 8$c. 8$c.) \ 

Cabul. — A city of Afghanistan, and the capital of the Cabul province. Lat. \ 
34° 10' N. long. 69° 15' E. By Abul Fazel, in 1582, it is described as follows: 

“ Cabul is a very ancient and beautiful city, of which Pusheng is said to be the 
founder. There are double walls of considerable strength on the south-east 
side of a small hill named Shah Cabul. From early antiquity, Cabul and Can- 
dahar have been reckoned the gates of Hindostan ; one affording entrance from 
Tooraun, and the other from Iran.” 

The modern city of Cabul is the capital, and usually the residence of the Dur- 
rany sovereigns of Afghanistan. It stands in a wide plain well watered, and 
interspersed with walled villages. The city is divided by the Cabul river, and 
in its vicinity has many groves and gardens, especially on thft north and west. 
The most pleasing spot is the tomb of the Emperor Baber, which stands on the 
top of a hill over the city, commanding a noble view, and surrounded by beds of 
anemonies and other flowers. The town is compact and handsome, but not ex- 
tensive. It is enclosed on three sides by a semicircle of low hills, along the top 
of which runs a weak wall. On the east there is an opening, enclosed by a ram- 
part, and here the principal road enters through a gate, after passing a bridge 
over a river. The Balia Hissar, which stands on the part of the hill north of 
this entrance, is a kind of citadel, and contains the king’s palace, in which are 
several halls distinguished with the royal ornament of a gilded cupola. There 
is also an upper citadel used as a state prison for the princes of the blood. 

Ali Merdan Khan, a celebrated nobleman in the reign of Jehangire, erected in 
the centre of the city four spacious bazars, two stories high, arched over, and 
supplied with fountains, which last are now choked up with filth. Most of the 
other buildings are of wood, on account of the frequency of earthquakes. The 
bazars are well supplied, and the town being usually the seat of government is 
a considerable emporium of trade. The great bazar is frequently crowded with 



AFGHANISTAN. 


6«IZNJ.] 


555 


U$bek Tartars, who have the same cast of features as the Chinese and Malays, 
but more harsh ; and here are to be found the remains of a colony of Armenians, 
captured by Nadir Shah during his Turkish wars. Many Hindoos also frequent 
this city, mostly from Peshawer, and as they contribute greatly by their industry 
to its prosperity, they are carefully cherished by the Afghan government. Cabul 
being lower than Ghizni, and more enclosed by hills', does not suffer so much 
from extreme cold, that of winter not being greater, while it is more steady, than 
the temperature of England ; on the other hand, the heat of summer is much 
more intense. The climate and scenery of Cabul have been celebrated by many 
Persian and Indian writers, who extol also the beauty and abundance of its 
flowers and fruits, the latter of which are transported to the remotest parts of 
India. Travelling distance from Delhi, 839 miles ; from Agra, 976 ; from Luck- 
now, 1118; and from Calcutta, 1815 miles Elphinstone, Forster , Fennell , &$c. 

frO 

Ghizni. — A celebrated city in the province of Cabul, once the capital of a 
powerful empire. Lat, 33°10'N. long. 66' 57' E. The country around Ghizni 
being considerably elevated above the level of the sea, the climate is so cold as 
to have become proverbial, being described as excessive even by the natives of the 
adjacent cold districts. For the greater part of the year the inhabitants seldom 
quit their houses, and even within the city of Ghizni the snow has been known 
to lie deep for some time after the vernal equinox. Traditions also prevail of 
immense falls of snow, which buried under it the city and its inhabitants. The 
climate of the flat country to the south of Ghizni is scarcely more mild than that 
of the city. In Kuttawauz the snow lies very deep for three months, and when 
hardened by the cold is capable of supporting travellers. For part of the win- 
ter the streams are frozen so hard as to bear the weight of camels, but to the 
north of Ghizni the cold decreases until the Cohistaun north of Cabul is ap- 
proached, when it becomes more severe. The land to the west of the city of 
Ghizni is interspersed with low hills, and, except a few cultivated spots, pro- 
duces little else than a prickly aromatic weed on which camels feed with 
avidity, and which, with paste of unsifted barley formed into balls, constitutes 
their chief food, yet these camels will carry a load of 800 pounds English. The 
summer is hardly so warm as that of England, and admits but of one harvest 
bring reaped. 

Ghizni continued the capital of a powerful empire for nearly two centuries, and 
a qity of note for at least two more. The first sovereign was Nassir ud Deen 
Sebuctaghi, who ascended the throne A. D. 975, and invaded India repeatedly, 

A. D. 997, Emir Ismael began to reign. 

997, Sultan Mahmood. 


4 & 2 



556 


AFGHANISTAN. 


[ghizni. 


1028, -Sultan Masood. 

1041, Emir Modood. 

1049, Abu Jaffer Massood. 

% 1051, Sultan Abd ul Rasheed, 

1052, Ferokh Zad. 

1058, Sultan Ibrahim. 

1098, Allah ud Dowlah. 

1115, Arsalan Shah. 

1118, Byram Shah. 

1152, Khosru Shah. 

1159, Khosru Mallek. 

1171, Saheb ud Deen Mahommed Ghori, who subdued the empire of 
Ghizni, expelled the dynasty of Sebuctaghi, and burned this 
magnificent capital to the ground. The remains of the dethroned 
family retired to' Lahore, where they continued to reign for some 
time; but about the A. D. 1185 became extinct. For many years 
afterwards Ghizni was known as a principal city, but it subse- 
quently declined to a secondary rank, and at last, to total insigni- 
ficance. 

Ghizni is now reduced to a town containing about 1500 houses, besides an 
extramural suburbs. The town stands on a height, at the base of which flows 
a river of some size. It is surrounded by stone walls, and contains three bazars 
of no great breadth, having high houses on each side, and there are also some 
dark and narrow streets. In the neighbourhood some small remains of its an- 
cient grandeur are still to be seen, particularly two lofty minarets, each above 
100 feet high. The tomb of the great Sultan Mahmood is also still standing, 
about three miles distant from the city, and is a spacious building covered with 
a cupola, but not magnificent. The doors, which are very large, are of sandal 
wood, and said to have been brought from Somnauth in the Gujerat peninsula* 
The tombstone is of white marble, on which are sculptured verses of the Koran, 
and at its head lies the plain but weighty mace said to have been wielded by 
that monarch. It is of wood, with so heavy a head of metal that few men could 
use it. There are also within the tomb some thrones or chairs inlaid with 
mother of pearl, reported also to have belonged to Mahmood. The tombstone 
is under a canopy, where some moullahs are still maintained to chauntthe Koran 
aloud over his grave; and on account of the number of holy men who lie here 
entombed, Ghizni is emphatically called by the Mahommedahs the second 
Medina. 





AFGHANISTAN. 


PESHAWER. J 


557 


Among the lessee ruins are the tombs of Behloli the Wise and of Hakim 
Sunai, a poet of note ; but nothing remains to point out the Ghiznavi palaces, 
•once the residence of Ferdousi, or of the mosques, baths, and caravanserais, 
that once adorned* this oriental metropolis. The most useful antiquity now to 
be seen is an embankment across a stream, built by Mahmood, which was much 
damaged on the capture of Ghizni by the GJiori kings, yet it still supplies w»t#>r 
to the fields and gardens round the town. Some few Hindoos are settled here? 
who carry on a *mall traffic, and supply the wants of the Maho.mmedan resi- 
dents. The immediate environs of the city are inhabited by Tajiks and Haza- 
rehs, and the contiguous valley to the north belongs to the Wurduks, but the 
Country between the hills which bound that, valley on the east, and the moun- 
tains of Soliman, are inhabited by Ghiljies. Travelling distance from Cabul, 82 
miles, and from Delhi, 917 miles. — ( Elphinstone, Forster , Rcmiell , Maurice, $c. 
%C‘) 

Peshawer (The advanced Post) — A large town in Afghanistan, and the occa- 
sional residence of its sovereigns. Lat. 84° O' N. long. 71° 13' E. By Abul Fazel, 
in 1582, the town and district are described as follows : — “ Tlr district Beckram, 
commonly called Peishore, enjoys a delightful spring season. Here is a temple 
called Gorehkehtery, a place of religious resort, particularly for Jogies. Tooman 
Beckram 9,692,410 dams.’’ 

The plain of Peshawer is nearly circular, aqd about 35 miles in diameter/ 
With the exception of a slip of .barren sandy country, about 15 miles broad, 
extending along the banks of the Cabul river to the Indus, Peshawer is sur 
rounded by mountains ; the Indian Caucasus being conspicuous to the north, 
and the peak *of the White mountain fSuffaid Coh) to the south-west. 1'he 
northern portion is intersected by three branches of the Cabul river, which 
unite before they leave the plain, and it is also watered by several rivulets 
fringed with willow and tamarisk trees. The soil of the plain is black mould, 
the surface wavy, and on account of the superior elevation of the boundary hills 
abundantly supplied with water. The orchards scattered over the country 
produce a profusion of plum, peach, pear, quince, and pomegranate trees, and 
the greatest part of the plain is in a high state of cultivation, being irrigated by 
many water-courses. Thirty-two villages have been counted within a circuit'd’ 
four miles. These are generally remarkably neat, adorned with mulberry ai.d 
Other fruit trees;. and over the streams are bridges of masonry, having two small 
towers at each end. 

The town of Peshawer stands on an uneven surface, and is above five miles 
in circumference. The houses are built of brick, (generally unbumed) in wooden 
frames, and are Commonly three stories high, the lowest appropriated to com* 



558 AFGHANISTAN. [canpahaI. 

mercial purposes. The streets are paved, but narrow, and have the kennel m the 
centre. There, are many mosques, but none of the public buildings are de- 
serving of notice except the Balia Hissar, and a fine caravanserai. The Balia 
Hissar is a castle of no strength, on a hill to the north of the town. It contains 
seve ral fine halls, commands a romantic view, and is adorned with some spacious 
and pleasant gardens ; as it is, however, only the occasional residence of the 
king, it is in general much neglected. Some of the palaces are splendid, but 
few of the nobility have houses here. The inhabitants have been estimated at 
100,000. They are chiefly of Indian origin, but speak Pushtoo (Afghan) as 
well as Hindostany, and there are also inhabitants of other nations. The shops 
display for sale dried fruits, nuts, bread, meat, boots, shoes, saddlery, bales m 
cloth, hardware, ready-made clothes, books, sheepskin cloaks, &c. The follow* 
ing are generally termed the tribes of Peshawer, viz. — the Mahommedzets, the\ 
Gugeeanees, theMehmends, the Khulleels, the Daoodzeis: the total population^ 
of the plain is supposed to amount to 300,000 persons. 

The city of Peshawer was founded by the great Acber, who encouraged the 
inhabitants of the Punjab to resort to his new settlement, seeing the Afghans 
were so averse to the occupations of commerce. From the convenience of its 
position, it unites by a commercial intercourse Persia and Afghanistan with 
India, and has become an important entrepot, the residence of many wealthy 
merchants, and especially of shawl dealers. During the summer the heat is 
very great, and in the height of the solstice the atmosphere is almost insup- 
portable, although in the immediate vicinity of everlasting snow. From the 
plain of Peshawer four ranges of mountains are distinctly seen to the north. 
Towards the end of February the snow disappears from the lowest, the tops of 
the second continue covered, and the third half way down. The height of one 
of these peaks was estimated by Lieutenant Macartney at 20,493 feet, and in 
June, 1809, was covered with snow, while the thermometer in Peshawer stood 
at 113° of Fahrenheit . — ( Elphinstone , Forster , #c. §c.) 

PROVINCE OF CANDAHAR.— (GandKara.) 

In rank this is the second province of the Afghan empire, and by Abul Fazelin 
1582 is described as follows : — “ Circar Candahar is situated in the second 
climate. The length from Kelat Bujareh is 300 coss, and it measures in breadth 
from Sinde to Furreh 260 coss. 0»\the east lies Sinde, on the west Gour and 
Ghourghistan, on the south Sewee, and on the west Furreh and Cabul. On the 
north-west it is bounded by Ghuzneen. The wheat of Candahar is vexy white 
and is sent to a distance as a great rarity. In the vicinity of the taim of 
Candahar are the ruins of a great city, the native place of the Ghorian Sultans. 



cavdahar.] AFGHANISTAN. 559 

Between Hermund and Candahar is situated the well known city of Meymund, 
mentioned in old astronomical tables.” 

This province having in recent times been but little explored, its modem 
boundaries are quite unascertained, and many of the places mentioned by Abul 
Fazel have wholly disappeared from the maps. Compared with other portions 
of Afghanistan, it may be described as having a hot climate. No snow falls 
during the winter, and the small quantity of ice along the edges of the streams 
is dissolved by mid-day. The temperature of the summer is great, hot winds 
are not unusual, nor is the fatal simoom unknown ; yet the climate on the whole 
has been noted for its salubrity. Towards the north-east of Candahar the coum 
jtry has the general aspect of a desert, and except small portions of arable lane 
continguous to the inhabited places, no other cultivation is seen. From Ghizn 
to Candahar the road trends 10 the south-west, and has universally a barren 
appearance. The buildings, from a scarcity of timber, are constructed, as in 
the province of Cabul, of sunburned bricks, and covered with a flat roof of the 
same materials. The country round the city of Candahar is fertile and well 
cultivated ; still further south it is poor ; and deteriorates so much as it extends 
west, that for many days march towards the left bank of the Helmund river it 
is a complete desert. 

This quarter of Afghanistan having been seldom Visited by Europeans, we 
remain but littte acquainted with its inhabitants and productions. A native 
traveller of 1795 (Seid Mustapha), among other productions, mentions wheat, 
rice, joaree, gram, peas, and seeds of different sorts, dates, almonds, saffron, and 
otr of roses. The cultivators, he asserts, are Moguls and Afghans, and the lan- 
guage of the country the Pushtoo. Among the inhabitants he reckons a con- 
siderable number of Hindoos (partly Kanoje Brahmins) both settled in the town 
as traffickers, and cultivating fields and gatdenk in the vicinity. In the cold 
season the poorer sort of inhabitants wear a species of coarse blanket, and the 
richer classes, shawl gowns and long silk caps. Like the rest of Afghanistan, the 
country is but thinly peopled, a considerable portion of the natives still leading 
a pastoral and migratory life. The principal domestic animals are camels and 
dogs, the latter being mentioned as a superior breed for strength, courage, and 
sagacity. Among the wild animals are tigers, buffaloes, deers, and antelopes. 
With respect to religion, the great bulk of the inhabitants are Mahommedans of 
tie Sooni persuasion, and the country abounds with mosques, in which, Seid Mus- 
tapha asserts, both Hindoos and Mahommedans worship, and in other respects 
nearly assimilate. Candahar has in general been considered as an integral part 
of thePersian empire, but it was for many years subject to the Delhi sovereigns, 
from whom it was wrested by Nadir Shah. On the death of that usurper, it 



AFGHANISTAN. 


560 


[C AND AM Alt. 


became subject to Ahmed Shah Abdalli, the Afghan chief of Cabul, and lias eve! 
since remained attached to that state, although under a very fluctuating degree 
of obedience . — (Seid Mu staph a, Elpfrinslone, Forster, <Spc. &;c.) 

Candahar. — A fortified town in Afghanistan, the capital of the Candahar 
province. Lat. 36° ll N. long. 66° 28' E. By Abul Fazel, in 1582, it is de- 
scribed as follows: — “ Candahar is the capital of this .Circar, it has two forts. 
The heat is v.ery severe, and the cold temperate, except in ,the months of De- 
cember and January, when water freezes. Here are flowers and fruits in 
abundance.” 

According td one tradition, Candahar was founded by Lohrasp, a kingjof 
Persia, of great antiquity, but whose own existence is worse than doubtfuJ ; 
another ascribes it with more probability to Secunder Zulkurnein (Alexander 
the Great). The ancient city stood* until the predominance of the Ghiljies, wlieh 
Shah Hussein founded a new city under the name of Husseinabad. Nadir Shah 
destroyed the old fortress, and attempted to alter once more the site of the town, 
and built Nadirabad. Ahmed Shah founded the present city in 1753, and gave 
t a new name, but the people still retain the old one of Candahar. During that 
sovereign’s reign it was the capital of the Dummy empire, but his sonTimour 
transferred the seat of government to Cabul. The surrounding country is level ? 
and naturally fertile ; and being irrigated both by water courses and wells, and 
industriously cultivated, the production of grain is abundant. The gardens con- 
tain vegetaoles and excellent fruits, besides which, melons, cucumbers, &c. are 
raised in the fields; madder, assafeetida, lucerne, and clover, are. also abundant, 
and the Candahar tobacco is of great reputation. The country near the hills is 
the most fertile, but that round the city is the best cultivated. A small distance 
to the west of the latter, the country becomes sandy and unproductive, which 
is also the case one day’s march to the south. 

The form of Candahar is an oblong square, and as it was built at once on a 
fixed plan, it is very regular. Four long and broad bazars meet in the middle of 
the town, and at their point of junction there is a circular space- about 40 or 50 
yards in diameter, covered with a dome, into which all the four streets lead. 
This central space, called Charsoo, is surrounded by shops, and here proclama- 
tions are read, and the bodies of criminals exposed. The four bazars are about 
50 yards broad. The sides consist of shops of the. same size and plan, in front 
of which runs a uniform veranda the whole length of the street. These shops 
are only one story high, so that over them are seen the lofty houses of the city. 
The whole town is plentifully supplied with water by two canals, drawn from the 
Urgundaub, crossed in different places by little bridges, and from these canals 
small conduits are carried, some above and some under ground, to almost every 



candahah.] AFGHANISTAN. 56l 

street in the town. All the remaining streets extend from the great bazar, and 
though straight are narrow, crossing each other at right angles. 

The town is divided into many quarters, each occupied by one of the 
numerous tribes and nations, the aggregate of which composes the population of 
Oandahar, estimated in 1809 at 100,000 souls. Almost' all the Durrany chiefs 
have houses in the city, some of which are described as large and elegant, and 
there are besides many large caravanserais and mosques ; but none of the latter 
handsome, except one near the palace, in the vicinity of which stands the tomb 
of Ahmed Shah. It is not a large building, but has a handsome cupola, ele- 
gantly painted, gilt, and otherwise ornamented within, and held in such venera- 
tion by the Durranies, that it is a sacred asylum for fugitives. Although, from 
the regularity of its plan, Candahar is superior to most European cities, it is 
far from magnificent, being for the most part built of brick, in many instances 
cemented with mud. Among the commonalty, the Hindoos have the best 
houses, which are very lofty. From noon until evening the streets are crowded 
with people carrying on different trades ; but there are no water sellers, the re- 
servoirs being so numerous. Contrary to what is the case in other cities of 
Afghanistan, the greater part of the inhabitants are genuine Afghans, and of these 
by far the greater proportion are Durranies. The other dwellers are Tajiks, 
Eimauks, Hindoos, Persians, Seistanies, and Balooelies, with a few Usbeks, 
Arabs, and Armenians. Within the town the rustic customs of the original 
Afghans are a good deal laid aside, the inhabitants in some respects approaching 
the Persians in their manners. In the immediate vicinity arc many orchards^ 
gardens, and places of worship, the latter apparently more resorted to for plea- 
sure than devotion. Among the inhabitants are a few Jews, but it has been 
already observed that this race is never numerous where the Hindoos have 
settled as brokers and money changers. The latter are chiefly from Mooltan and 
the Rajpoot districts. 

While the Persian and Mogul empires existed in a state of prosperity, Can- 
dahar was a frontier city, and the object of much competition. It was betrayed 
to the Emperor Jeliangire by the Persian governor, Ali Merdan Khan, in 1638. 
On the decline of both empires, it was for a short time possessed by native 
Afghan chiefs; but in 1737, Nadir Shah having deposed Thamas Mirza entered 
Afghanistan with a large army, and took Candahar from the Ghiljie chief Hossein 
Khan, after a siege from first to last of 18 months. On Nadirs assassination, 
it was acquired by Ahmed Shah Abdalli, and during his life time continued to 
be the capital of the Durrany empire. Travelling distance from Delhi by Cabul, 
1071 miles; from Agra, 1208; and from Calcutta, 2047 miles.— ( Elphinsionc, 
Forster, Seid Mmtapha, S$c. &?c*) 

vox. rr. 4 e 



AFGHANISTAN 


562 


[karrabaugh. 


Mullai.— The northernmost town of Afghanistan, situated at the confluence 
of the Indus with the Abba Seen river. Lat. 34° St N. long. 72° 48' E. 

Neelaub. — A town on the western bank of the Indus, which is here deep 
and rapid, but its bed so contracted as to be only a stone’s- throw across. 
Lat. 33° 50' N. long. 71° 50' E. 

Kohaut.— A town in the Afghan dominions, 26 miles south from the city of 
Peshawer. Lat. 33° 44' N. long. 71° 15' E. This place stands in a plain of the 
same name, about 12 miles in circumference, abounding in water, and producing 
the fruits and flowers of all climates. The town presents an appearance of neat- 
ness, and formerly had a little fort adjoining, which is now in ruins. Near tie 
town runs a clear stream, which is hot in winter and cold in summer. Tne 
neighbourhood of Kohaut abounds with the fruits, plants, grasses, and weeds of 
European climates, so grateful to an eye long unaccustomed to the sight of theml 
A composition, named moomeed or mummy, is here manufactured, and sold 
through the east as a specific for fractures almost miraculous. It is made from 
a sort of stone, which, having been reduced to powder, is boiled in water, when an 
oil floats on the top, which afterwards hardens to a substance, having the appear- 
ance and consistence of coal. — ( Elphinstone, fyc.) 

Karrabaugh ( Kksharabag , the salt garden ). — This place stands on the west 
bank of the Indus, 75 miles south from Peshawer. Lat. 33° 4' N. long 71° 17' E. 
At this place the Indus is compressed by mountains into a deep channel, only 
350 yards broad. The mountains on each side have an abrupt descent to the 
river, and a road is cut along the base for above two miles, but is so narrow, and 
the rock over it so steep, that a loaded camel cannot pass, to obviate which diffi- 
culty, large packages are carried past Karrabaugh by water. The first part of 
this pass is actually overhung by the town of Karrabaugh, built in a singular 
manner along the face of the hill, every street rising above the neighbouring one. 
The road beyond the town is cut out of the solid rock salt, at the base of cliffs 
of the same substance, which in some places ascend more than one hundred 
feet above the river. Were it not streaked and tinged with red, this mineral 
would resemble chrystal. In several spots, salt springs issue from the foot of the 
rocks, and cover the ground with a crust of the most brilliant whiteness. All 
the earth, especially in the vicinity of the town, is almost blood red, which, with 
the strange and beautiful mass of salt rocks, and the Indus flowing through the 
mountains with a clear deep stream presents altogether a most imposing spec- 
tacle. Near the town are piles of salt in large blocks like quarry stones, lying 
ready for transportation to Hindostan or Khorasan. Seven miles beyond Karra- 
baugh, on the road to Peshawer, there is an extremely difficult pass through the 
mountains. The plain of Karrabaugh belongs to the Esau Khail tribe. It is 



AFGHANISTAN. 


BAMAUN.] 


563 


naturally fertile, well cultivated, and watered by small canals of about four feet 
broad and as many deep. — ( Elphimtone , 8$c.) 

Dam a un (A skirt ). — A large district in the Afghan dominions, extending 
along the west bank of the Indus, between the 31st and 33d degrees of north 
latitude. This territory commences near Sungur, in iat. 30° 45' N. and stretches 
as far north as the eastern branches of the Soliman range. The hills south of 
the salt range, and the plains and vallies they comprehend, are also generally 
included in Damaun. The plain immediately on the right bank of the Indus is 
sometimes distinguished by the appellation of Muklewaud, in which case the 
term Damaun is only applied to the skirts of the hills, which is the original 
meaning of the word. In its most extended sense, Damaun comprehends all 
the country between the salt range, the Soliman mountains, the Indus, and 
Sungur, in Upper Sinde. The southern tract of Damaun may be divided into 
three portions: 1st, The plain of the Indus, termed Muklewaud, mostly peopled 
by Balooches ; 2nd, The country of the Murwuts, and the plains and low hills 
at the base of the mountains. Muklewaud extends along the Indus about 120 
miles, its main breadth being about 25 miles, and is a plain of hard smooth clay, 
quite flat, bare of grass, but sprinkled with bushes, and here and there a tree 
about 20 feet high. The soil when much trodden becomes a minute whitish 
dust, apparently composed from the slime deposited by the Indus, which in 
summer inundates the country to a great extent, while the mountain streams 
pour down torrents swelled by the melting of the snow. 

The river banks are covered with thick jungle of low tamarisks, in some 
places mixed with long grass and thorny bushes, swarming with wild swine, hog- 
deer, and all sorts of game. Around the villages frequently clumps of date 
trees are seen, and are the only tall trees on the plain. When cultivated it is 
productive, but the greater part of the plain is a waste, owing to the vices of 
the government, and the consequent thinness of the population. The southern 
section of the plain has most jungle, the north sand, and in both camels of the 
species seen in Hindostan are bred. The principal town is Dera Ishmael Khan, 
the residence of the governor; the people are Juts and Balooches, dark in 
complexion, lean and meagre in form. 

The country of the Murwuts is composed of arid sandy plains, separated by 
ranges of hills. For the purposes of agriculture it is entirely dependant on the 
rains, spring water being scanty. Half the Murwuts are stationary, being em- 
ployed in agriculture, the others range about with their herds of camels. Their 
country is 35 miles square, but thinly inhabited. Damaun Proper lies to the 
south of the Murwpt country, and is possessed by many small, barbarous, and 
hostile tribes. Minute portions of it, however, are well cultivated, the produce 

4c 2 



AFGHANISTAN. 


564 


[riittenba kat. 


being bajaree, joarree, and wheat. The winter of Damaun is considerably colder 
than in most parts of Hindostan, frost being common in the morning, and the 
thermometer some degrees below the freezing point. On the other hand, the 
summer is intolerably hot, the heat of the night almost equalling that of the day, 
and,' according to native reports, the inhabitants are obliged to wet their cloths 
before they go to sleep. The peasantry throughout the province are generally 
Juts and Balooches with some Hindoos ; but they are not allowed to possess 
land, and cannot pass from one master to another without permission, but they 
can at any time quit the tribe with which they have been dwellers. The whole 
of Damaun is subject to the Cabul sovereign’s authority, which is, however, but 
slightly exercised. The tribes are generally bound to furnish him with a body 
of horse, usually commuted into a sum of money, and he also levies a tax on the 
Hindoos. — ( Elphinstone, §c.) . 

Dera Ishmael Kiian. — This is the capital of the Damaun province, and. is' 
situated on the west bank of the Indus. Lat. 31° 50' N. long. 70° 33' E. It 
stands in a large wood of date trees, about 100 yards from the Indus, and has a 
ruinous wall of unburned bricks, about one mile and a half in circumference, 
The inhabitants are mostly Balooches, but there are also some Afghans and 
Hindoos ; the peasantry are Juts and Balooches. There are also several hordes 
of wandering shepherds encamped on different parts of this extensive plain. 
In 1809, the embassy to Cabul halted here for several weeks. — Elphinstone , 

Kaggahvala. — A small town situated on the west side of the Indus, where 
that river is joined by the Koorunr. Lat. 32° 40' N. long. 70° 55' E. 

Kaheree. — At this place, early in May, the main stream of the Indus is above 
1000 yards broad, and 12 feet deep, although its breadth is diminished by 
several parallel branches, one of which is 250 yards broad. Men and cattle are 
transported across in flat-bottomed boats of fir, capable of carrying from 30 to 
40 tons. Lat. 31° 25" N. long. 70° 25' E. — ( Elphinstone , 8$c.) 

Sungur. — A town in Upper Sinde, subject to the Afghans, situated 23 miles 
to the west of the Indus. Lat. 30° 50' N. long. 69° 58' E. 

Dera Ghazi Khan. — A town and small district in the Afghan territories, 
situated on the west bank of the Indus. Lat. 29° 50' N. long. 70° 20' E. Th}s 
tract lies between the Indus and Baloochistan to the north of the Mozarees, and 
is subject to the Cabul sovereign, yielding a revenue of about five lacks of 
rupees. The town is nearly as large as that of Mooltan, from which it is about 
40 miles distant, but in a most ruinous condition. — ( Elphinstone , 8$c .) 

Mittenda Kat. — A small town in the Afghan dominions, situated on the 
west bank of the Indus. Lat. 28° 35' N. long. 70° 15' E. At this place the Indus 
is joined by the five rivers of the Punjab in one stream, here named the Punjnud. 
(Lieutenant Macartney, §c.j 



AFGHANISTAN. 


SEWEE.] 


565 


Shekarpoor.— A district subject to the Cabul sovereign, situated to the west 
of the Indus, between the 27th and 28th degrees of north latitude. To the east 
it is bounded by the Indus; on the west by Baloochistan ; to the north it has the 
Mozaurees ; and to the south the province of Sinde, of which it is sometimes 
described as a section. Adjacent to the Indus the soil is fertile, but at a distance 
Irom that stream dry, sterile, and unproductive. The peasantry are Juts, 
Balooches, and a few Hindoos ; the revenue paid to the king, who keeps here a 
Hakim and a few troops, about three lacks of rupees. The Mozaurees, who dwell 
to the north of Shekarpoor, are a tribe of Balooches, inhabiting a woody but 
ill cultivated country. Their political condition is that of internal anarchy; on 
the highways they are robbers, on the Indus pirates, and, with respect to their 
neighbours, plunderers. 

The town of Shekarpoor stands in lat. 27°36'N. long. 69° 18' E. is of con- 
siderable size, and surrounded by a mud wall, but without a ditch. The inha- 
bitants are almost all Hindoos, termed Shekarpoories, and speak a peculiar 
dialect of Hindostany distinguished by that name. There are many rich bankers 
here, and a considerable trade is kept up with Rajpootana, Sinde, Candahar, 
and Peshawer. Shekarpoor bankers are to be found all over the Afghan domi- 
nions, and even in the remote towns of Turkistau, but they do not venture to 
carry their wives and female relations to these uncivilized countries. The num- 
ber of resident Afghans here has been estimated at only 200 persons.— 
( Elphinstone, §c.) 

Sewee.— This is a flat dry plain of hardened clay, but in some parts its na- 
tural defects are relieved by streams from the hills, and round the town of Sewee 
it is well cultivated. It is inhabited by the Cauker tribe of Purinees, and by 
their inveterate enemies the' Balooches. In modern times this tract has been 
but little explored, but in 1582, Abul Fazel relates that, “ Near to Sewee there 
is a lake two days journey in length, called Munjoor, upon the surface of which 
fishermen have formed artificial floating islands, where they reside and carry on 
their occupations.”— ( Elphmtom, §c.) 



TIBET, OR SOUTHERN TARTARY. 


The limits of this extensive region have never been accurately defined, but for 
general purposes, it may be considered as comprehending all the tract of coun- 
try from the eastern boundaries of Cashmere, in long. 74* E. to the frontiers (pf 
China, about long. 100° E. slanting south along the line of the Himalaya from 
lat. 37° N. to lat. 28° N. In length from east to west it may be estimated at 
1300 miles, but its breadth from north to south cannot be distinguished, thd 
demarkation in that direction being lost in the vast Tartarian plains. By the 
natives of Hindostan, the tract of country adjacent to the snowy peaks on both 
sides of the Himalaya is termed Bhot, and the inhabitants Bhooteas ; nor does 
it appear that the name Tibet is any where in general use to designate the pro- 
vince according to the European acceptation of the word. At present, the whole 
territory (with the exception of Lahdack) is nominally, or really, subject to the 
Chinese, and it is to the portion of Tibet more immediately governed by the 
viceroy of Lassa that the following general description chiefly refers. The 
principal modem territorial subdivisions, commencing with Lassa, the seat of 
the Dalai or grand Lama, are 

1. Lassa, 3. The district of Undes, 

2. Teshoo Loomboo, 4. Lahdack. 

But between the two first and the two last a great expanse of unexplored coun- 
try intervenes. According to the Deba of Tuklakot’s information, the orders of 
the Emperor of China reach Tuklakot on the British frontier (nearly due north 
of Lucknow) by the way of Tanseiu, Lassa, Tazon, and Gurdon ; the expresses 
being carried by horsemen, of whom there are relays on the road. From the 
Emperor’s court to Lassa occupies 45 days, from thence to Gurdon 15 days, and 
lastly, to Tuklakot, by a single horseman, 6 days, making a total of 66 days ; but 
the time employed between the two last is scarcely reconcileable with their re- 
lative position. In 1816, the Deba abovementioned, although a functionary 
under the Emperor, could not recognize Pekin ; China he called Geereu ; and 
never had heard of the word Tibet. The Brahmaputra, Indus, and Sutuleje, 
are supposed, on tolerably good grounds, to have their sources in this elevated 
region, and at no great distance from each other, but the fact has only been sa- 
tisfactorily established with regard to the last. The Cailas and Himalaya ranges 



TIBET. 567 

of mountains both belong to Tibet, and contain between them the sacred lakes 
Manasarovara, and Rawan’s Hr ad. 

This is a territory of great altitude, being part of that elevated table land 
which gives rise not only to the great rivers of India and China, but also to those 
of Siberia and Tartary. The surrounding mountains, part of the Himalaya 
chain, about the 28th degree of north latitude, mark the boundary of Tibet and 
Bootan, and the summit of Chamalari is probably the highest land in this part 
of Tibet, as from thence the rivers begin to flow to the north, where they fail into 
the Sanpoo, or Brahmaputra. 

In the temperature of the seasons, a remarkable uniformity prevails in this 
quarter, both in their periodical duration and return, the same division of them 
taking place as in Bengal. The spring is from March to May, with a variable 
atmosphere and heat, thunder-storms, and occasional showers. From June to 
September is the season of humidity, when heavy and continued rains swell the 
rivers. From October to March a clear and uniform sky succeeds, seldom ob- 
scured either by fogs or clouds. For three months of this period a degree of 
cold is felt, far greater, probably, than is experienced in Europe. Its extreme 
severity is more particularly confined to the southern boundary of Tibet, near 
the elevated range of mountains which separate it from Nepaul, Bootan, and 
Assam. The summits of these are covered at all seasons of the year with snow, 
and their vicinity is remarkable at all times for the dryness of the winds. Here 
meat and fish are preserved during winter in a frozen state. At Tuena, in Tibet, 
on the 16th of September, 1783, at six in the morning, the thermometer stood 
below the freezing point. The dryness of the atmosphere also in Tibet is very 
remarkable, and operates an effect similar to that of the scorching winds that 
prevail over Hindostan. Vegetation is frequently dried to brittleness, and every 
plant may be rubbed between the fingers into dust. 

When first viewed, Tibet strikes the traveller as one of the least favoured 
countries under heaven, and apparently in a great measure not susceptible of 
cultivation, exhibiting only low rocky hills or extensive plains unfavourable to 
vegetation. On account of the severity of the climate, the inhabitants are 
obliged to seek for shelter in the vallies and hollows. From Phari to Nainee, on 
the road leading from Bootan to Teshoo Loomboo, a distance of nearly 50 
miles, the country is very little removed in aspect, population, and culture from 
a desert The hills are bare, and composed of a stiff, dry, mouldering rock, 
which splits and shivers with the frost. The usual crops are barley, coarse 
peas, and wheat, the first forming much the largest proportion of the whole. 
No rice is cultivated, and wheat is so scarce that it rarely falls to the lot of the 
lower classes. By the wealthier classes, coarse peas are given- to horses and 



TIBET. 


568 

raules; and from the barley, the shraub, or spirit, is distilled, which is so 
favourite a beverage with all classes in Tibet. Turnips and radishes are the only 
garden vegetables, and peaches and bynes the only fruits. It is the practice of 
the cultivators in this quarter of Tibet to flood the low lands on the approach of 
winter with water, which freezing, covers their surface with a sheet of ice, and 
thus preserves the scanty soil on their surface from the violence of the winds. 
In some places they pluck the corn up by the roots, and afterwards place it in 
bundles to dry. 

Although the face of the country is so unpromising, its interior in some de- 
gree compensates by the richness of its mineral stores, and on the surface of this 
dry and elevated region, the production of nitre is spontaneous and abundant 
Gold, in particular, is found in many parts, and often uncommonly pure. It is 
procured both from mines, and in the form of gold dust in the beds of rivers, \ 
attached to small pieces of stone ; at other times it is found in large masses, ' 
lumps, and irregular veins. The gold mines are the exclusive property of the 
government, which, according to Abdul Tlussool, only permits one of them, situ- 
ated 18 munzils or days’ journey west of Lassa, and within 3 munzils of a place 
named Lunchee, to be worked by contract, on the following conditions : each 
individual applying for the privilege of mining must come under an engagement 
to deliver to the sovereign, six maashas of gold bullion, each maasha being 
rather more in weight than the one-tenth of a rupee, for which consideration he 
obtains the privilege of working the mine for a limited period of 3 or 4 months. 
Whatever be the result of his labour, he is still obliged to deliver six maashas 
to the government, but any surplus he reserves for himself, except when he 
discovers any single mass weighing more than 7 tolahs, which (according to 
the authority abovementioned) he is required to deposit again in the mine to 
prevent its exhaustion. The right of mining is granted only to such a number 
of persons as shall be sufficient, by the delivery of 6 maashas each, to yield the 
government a total annual amount of 5 maunds (about 4001bs.) of pure bullion. 
Rock salt is found everywhere, but there are said to be no minesrof either silver 
or iron. Cinnabar, containing a large proportion of quicksilver, is a production 
of Tibet, and might be advantageously extracted by distillation if fuel were 
more plentiful ; but, unfortunately, it is remarkably scarce, the only substitute 
for fire-wood being the dried dung of animals. Thus situated, in so rigid a 
climate, the most valuable discovery Hor the frozen inhabitants of Tibet would 
be. that of a coal mine. It is said that in some parts of China, bordering on 
Tibet, coal is found, and used as a fuel. 

In Tibet, a great superabundance of animal life is found, which is not the case 
in Bootan, where, except domesticated quadrupeds, there are no others, and be- 



TIBET. 


569 

sides pheasants, almost no game. In Tibet, on the contrary, the variety and 
quantity of wild fowl, game, beasts of prey, flocks, droves, and herds, are asto- 
nishing. Among the most remarkable animals of this country is the yak, or 
bushy-tailed bull. In size they resemble the English cattle, and are covered ail 
over with a thick coat of long hair ; the tail, in particular, is composed of a pro- 
digious quantity of long, flowing, glossy hair. There is a great variety of colour 
among them, but white and black are the most prevalent. Although not large 
boned, they seem of great bulk, owing to the profuse thickness of their coat. 
These cattle are pastured in the coldest parts of Tibet, upon the short herbage 
peculiar to the tops of mountains and bleak plains. They are found almost 
everywhere, but the lofty mountains which separate Tibet from Bootan are 
their favourite haunts. They are never employed in agriculture, but are useful 
as beasts of burthen, and from their hair tents and ropes are manufactured. 
Throughout Hindostan their tails are in great request as chowries, which are in 
universal use for driving away flies and musquetoes ; they are likewise em- 
ployed as ornamental furniture for horses and elephants. They supply an 
abundant quantity of rich milk, from which excellent butter is procured, and 
when uneasy they make a low grunting noise. Besides the yaks there are 
small cattle like those of Bengal, which are mostly employed in agriculture. 

Another native of Tibet is the musk deer, which is observed to delight in in- 
tense cold. This animal is about as large as a moderate sized hog, which it 
resembles in the figure of the body. It has a small head, a thick and round 
hind quarter, no scut, and extremely delicate limbs. From the upper jaw two 
long curved tusks proceed, directed downwards. It is covered with a prodi- 
gious quantity of hair, between two and three inches long, which grows erect 
over the body, and seems to partake more of the nature of feathers or porcupine’s 
quills. The musk is a secretion formed in a little bag, or tumour, resembling a 
wen, situated at the navel, and is only found in the male. This animal is here 
reckoned the property of the state, and can only be hunted by the permission 
of government. In that portion of Tibet adjoining the Himalaya and Cailas 
mountains, the changes of temperature are so frequent mid sudden, that the in- 
digenous quadrupeds require very warm coverings to protect them from its 
vicissitudes, and we find that nature has accordingly very liberally supplied 
them with the fittest materials. The sheep has a very thick and heavy fleece ; 
the goat has at the root of his long shaggy hair a very fine fur interspersed ; 
while the cow has a substance of the same sort, so little inferior in warmth and 
softness, that it might almost prove a substitute for the fur of the celebrated 
shawl goat, another peculiar production of Tibet. These creatures are of va- 
rious colours, black, white, a faint bluish tinge, and of a shade some vfaat lighter 

V0JL, ||. 4 D 



TIBET. 


570 

than a fawn. They have straight horns, and are of a lower stature than the 
smallest sheep in England. The material used for the manufacture of shawls is 
of a light firm texture, and grows next the skin, having over it a covering of 
long coartse hair, which preserves the softness of the inferior coal. After re- 
peated trials it has been found impossible to rear this species of goat in any 
other country. 

The hare of Tibet has a fur of peculiar length and thickness, and even the 
dog has a coat of fur added to his usual covering of thick hair. The wild horse, 
the wild ass, and, it is reported, the mule, are found in abundance among the 
Tartarian mountains, but it is not known that they have any covering approach- 
ing the nature of fur. The bharal (ovis ammon), partaking of the nature both 
of a deer and a sheep, has at the base of the brittle hair of the former a most 
beautiful brown fur. The domesticated horses ure rather larger than the Bootan 
tanyans, and show considerable strength and speed. The mules are also large 
and strong, and are the ordinary carriage animals throughout Tibet. The dogs 
resemble the large Nepaul mastiff, and are both stout and ferocious. Immense, 
flocks of sheep are pastured throughout Tibet, where mutton forms a consider- 
able portion of the animal food of the middling and higher ranks. They are also 
occasionally used as beasts of burthen, and flocks of them are seen in motion 
laden with grain and salt, each carrying from 12 to 20 pounds. The skins of 
lambs arc cured with the wool on, and constitute a valuable article of traffic. 
In order to obtain the skin in the highest degree of excellence, the dam is some- 
times killed before her time of yeaning, which ensures a silky softness to the 
fleece, and renders it peculiarly fitted for the lining of vests, for which purpose 
it is in high estimation all over China and Tartary. 

The principal intercourse of the eastern Tibetians, commercial as well as po- 
litical, is with China. There are two roads from Lassa to Pecheen, or Pekin, 
the Chinese capital. The first is the post road, along which dispatches are 
carried on horses ; the journey to and from usually occupying two months, but 
expresses get over the above space in 20 days. The other road is more, cir- 
cuitous, yet is the one usually selected by merchants, being better adapted for 
the conveyance of baggage and merchandize. It is, however, much more tedious 
and usually occupies 8 months ; but it is the route pursued by the annual cara- 
van, which reaches Lassa in October, and sets out on its return to China in June* 
The caravan from China to Lassa usually comprehends an aggregate of 5 or 800 
foen, bringing goods on cattle, muled, and in some instances on horses. The 
principal imports to Lassa, in 1814, were tea in large quantities; cocheen, a 
Chinese silk of coarse texture ; khaduk, another Chinese coarse silk ; various 
kinds of coarse cloths used for making tents, &c„; European broad cloth to a 



TIBET. 


571 

small amount ; various kinds of silk ; silver bullion in lumps (dullas), some weigh- 
ing 166 rupees, others smaller; a little China-ware; pearls, coral; besides 
European cutlery and other miscellaneous articles. According to Abdul 
Russool, by a regulation of the Chinese government, it is required, that the 
amount of silver bullion sent to Lassa by the caravan, for the payment of the 
Chinese troops stationed there, for the salaries of the Tazin, Viziers, and other 
contingencies, be received by the Chinese merchants in payment for the tea sold 
at Lassa, and carried back to China, which appears an inconvenient arrange- 
ment. The duties on the exports from China to Lassa are collected before their 
departure from Pekin. No government escort attends the caravan to Lassa; 
but the imperial government is responsible for its security, and makes good all 
losses sustained by theft or robbery during the transit. 

Frqm Lassa to Pekin the caravan carries puttoo (a coarse woollen cloth ma- 
nufactured near Lassa, of which a great amount is annually exported to China,); 
toos (a fine woollen cloth of a soft texture, resembling the looee of Hindostan, 
and manufactured in Tibet); gold bullion, the produce of the Tibet mines; 
mushroo, a silk manufacture of Benares, Hindostan chintzes, Allahabad cloths, 
imported from Upper Hindostan, and otter skins, chanks, or large shells, rhi- 
noceroses’ horns, and peacock feathers, all in the first instance imported from 
Bengal. 

A commercial intercourse subsists between Tibet and Assam, transacted on 
the confines of the respective states. The exports to Assam consist principally 
of silver bullion and rock salt; the imports from Assam are rice, coarse silk 
cloths, iron, stick lac, and a few other articles of small value ; the whole esti- 
mated at one lack of rupees. 

It does not appear that any articles, the original produce or manufacture of 
Nepaul, are imported to Tibet ; the first-mentioned country serving merely as a 
route for the merchandize of Hindostan, consisting principally of mushroo cloth 
and kinkaubs manufactured at Benares; otter skins, pearls, coral, chanks, or 
large shells, and buffaloe horns from Bengal ; Allahabad cloth, coarse sugar, and 
sweetmeats, from Hindostan ; and broadcloth, telescopes, mirrors, &c. of Euro- 
pean manufacture. The exports from Tibet to Nepaul are tea, China silk,* and 
silver, all originally from China ; and musk, cowtails, and sable furs, the pro- 
duce of Tibet. A Nepaulese vakeel, on the part of the Gorkha Raja, always 
resides at Lassa, where he adjusts the litigations of his countrymen, and com- 
municates in political affairs with the Chinese functionaries. It is conjectured 
that there are from 2 to 3000 natives of the countries subject to the Nepaul 
Raja constantly residing in Lassa, where they act as gold and silversmiths, and 

4 d 2 



TIBET. 


572 

retail traders in pnttoo, a coarse woollen cloth manufactured at Logha, a small 
village in the neighbourhood of Lassa. The Tibetians entertain but an indifferent 
opinion of die Nepaulese in general, considering than turbulent, ambitious, and 
encroaching neighbours. 

The natives ef Cashmere, established with their families at Lassa, are esti- 
mated at ISO persons, who carry on a considerable commerce betwixt that 
capital and their native country, from whence they import shawls of every de- 
scription, numdee, a very thick woollen cloth, saffron, and dried fruits. The 
exports to Cashmere are silver bullion and tea, of which last article to the value 
of 160,000. rupees is annually exported from Lassa to Cashmere. The commerce 
between Boetan and Tibet is not open and unrestricted, being monopolized by 
the Deb Raja, who is the principal merchant in his own dominions, from whence 
he sends a caravan annually, attended by about 50 persons, who convey from 
30 to 40,000 rupees’ worth of goods, consisting principally of the following arti- 
cles, viz. a small quantity of rice, barrihatti cloth, burrace cloth, pearls and 
coral; all originally from Bengal. The return articles carried to Bootan are 
gold bullion, chowries or cow tails, tea, khaduk, a coarse sort of Chinese silk, 
and cocheen, a Chinese embossed silk of a coarse texture. 

The Sikkim, or Damoo Jung Raja, sends an annual offering of a small amount 
to the Grand Lama, in return for which he receives a present from that incarna- 
tion ; but the real commerce is of trivial importance. The intercourse, how- 
ever, is quite direct, and the route is known to be attended with little difficulty > 
and under existing circumstances is apparently the best that an European, bent 
on exploring the country, could follow. Hindostan receives the merchandize of 
Tibet through the medium of the intervening countries. The principle article 
is gold, but from the concealment practised, it is impossible even to conjecture 
its amount; the next in importance is tincal, then musk, and formerly some 
rock salt. Tibet is not, as has been supposed, destitute of woollen fabrics suited 
to the severity of the dimate, although in beauty they cannot compete with the 
manufactures of England. The best is named toos, which is a fine kind of 
woollen doth, of a soft texture, manufactured at Lassa only, and capable of re- 
ceiving a great variety of dyes. The next is named puttoo, which is a coarser 
sort of doth, resembling English broad doth, and also fitted for the reception 
of any colour. Great quantities, of a red colour especially, are annually ex- 
ported to China. According to Abdul Russool, the common currency of Tibet 
is a coin named tank, about 4s. 0d. in value, either whole, or cat into Halves. 
It has the appearance of a stiver coin resembling the sicca rupee, but it contains 
very little salver, the greater part of its composition being a mixture of brass 



TIBET 578 

and copper, so that it is rather difficult to account /or its maintaining its re- 
puted value. Some few sicca rupees are likewise current. Both in Tibet and 
Bootan, the first member of the state ,is also the chief merchant ; he is conse- 
quently invested with privileges above the common adventurer, who canndt 
enter into competition with him. 

According to recent (1816) Chinese authorities, the jurisdiction of'their sove- 
reign extends in a westerly direction five days’ journey from Gurdon,’ which is 
about 61° E. but does not include Lahdack. The Chinese Tazin, who repre- 
sents the empeaof at Lassa, may be virtually considered the viceroy of the -pro- 
vince in all matters of real importance, the bonds of subjugation to China 
having been evidently drawn much closer since Captain Turner travelled in 
1786. The appointment of the four viziers, who form the state council, cannot 
take effect until notified to him, and be subsequently through him Confirmed, by 
the emperor of China. An appeal, en dernier report, may be made to him from 
all capital punishments, and he may order v the Naib, or deputy, to revise any’ 
fegal pitfceedin&s. His rank is next to that of the Lama, and .above the Raja"; 
in efficient power hO is greatly superior to both. Of Jate years it hafc become part 
of his official duty to make an annual tour to the Nepauf frontier, and as for as 
China, attended by one Of the four viziers, to exaipine the state of the country* 
For the expenses of this excursion he is allowed 5000 tanks (10,000 rupees), 
which he seldom ot never expends, extorting such articles as he requires from 
the inhabitants*. This exaction, however, is said to be the only oppression which 
the Tibetians suffer from their foreign masters. 

Within this vast provinoe there are said to be only 1000 Chinese troops per- 
manently stationed, of which 400 remain at Lassa ; 200 at GyanoheC, (12 days 
journey west of La§sa) ; 300 at Teshoo Loomboo (10 days’ west of Lassa); and 
200 at Tingry fort/(22 days’ journey W. S. W. from Lassa, and not far trom the 
Nepaul frontier.) The small nrumeric.d amount of this force is partly accounted 
for, by the entire reliance of the Las» i government on chat of China for protection 
against' external invasion ; but it also proves the mildness of the government. 
The discipline is very bad, but the soldiers are said individually to be'strong and 
hardy. Their weapons are matchlocks and swords, the last worn on the right 
aide. For the origin of this custom there is a tradition, that when Tamerlane 
conquered Tibet he treated the inhabitants with universal clemenoy, on condition 
that they would adopt Some custom which would in future ages recal the 
memory of his predominance in these remote countries, iir fulfilment of which 
the Tibet military have ever since fixed the sword t6 the right Side. 

The Lamas are the priests of the sect of Buddha m Tibet and the territories 
adjacent, and are monks who, at least nominally, have forsaken the pleasures of 



TIBET. 


574 

the world. They reject in toto the doctrine of the caste, and a proselyte of any 
nation may be admitted into tlieir order. The whole consider themselves the 
adherents of Sakya Gamba, who came from India about the time of our Saviour, 
and has ever since resided at Lassa, where he enjoys perpetual youth ; but be- 
sides this individual there are many other personages, who are considered to be 
incarnations of different Buddhas. Of this description the most remarkable are 
the Dharma Raja, or spiritual chief of Bootan ; but still more sacred and cele- 
brated is the Teshoo Lama, who resides at Digarcheh, or Teshoo Loomboo, and is 
the spiritual guide of the Chinese emperor. 

The Grand or Dalai Lama, who resides at Lassa, is considered by his adherents 
to be an incarnation of the divinity in a human form, on the dissolution of which 
he enters a new one, after a stated period, and, becoming thus revealed to the in- 
habitants of the earth, resumes his dormant functions. According t<^ AJbdu! 
Russool, who resided long at Lassa, the mode adopted for ascertaining the 
identity of the new Lama is the following ; — immediately after his mortal frame 
has ceased to breathe, the religious orders commence a course of peculiar cere- 
monies, and all classes join in prayers and supplications for the restoration of 
their lost deity. These mysteries and invocations are prosecuted for a period of 
three years, during which period sums of money are distributed from the public 
treasury, and the priesthood fare sumptuously. On the expiration of three 
years, the Naib or Raja, who is the second sacred dignitary of the state, pro- 
ceeds to ascertain the time, place, and orm of the Lama’s impending incarnation. 
At Lassa three high priests always reside, whose hereditary office it is to reveal 
the migration of the Lama into his new form, and the Raja calls on these hiero- 
phants, at the expiration of the above period, to depose severally what they know 
regarding the expected descent of the Lama. Being thus appealed to, the high 
priest, having carefully secluded himself from all external communication, drinks 
shraub (spirits) until he is intoxicated, and also performs various ceremonies ; 
after which, while thus inspired, he reveals, in writing, the time, place, and form 
of the new incarnation. This document being sealed up, a similar reference is 
made to the second high priest, who, having undergone a similar process, pro- 
duces his revelation, after which a conclusive reference, accompanied by the like 
solemnities, is made to the third high priest. When thus obtained, these three 
declarations are opened; but if their separate revelations regarding the new 
incarnation do not exactly coincide, the whole are rejected, and fresh cere- 
monies commenced. 

On the other hand* when the three revelations exactly correspond, they ,are 
forwarded to the Teshoo Lama, who after examination confirms them as true 
and inspired, or rejects them as false and spurious. If the first, he promulgates 



TIBET. 


575 

his own written annunciation of the Lama’s reappearance, declaring that in such 
a family and form, and at such a time, the Lama has been, or will be, incarnate. 
This instrument, marked with his seal, is sent to Lassa, where it receives the 
seals of the Naibs of the four villages, who compose the supreme council, and 
of all the principal functionaries ; after which, as a matter of form, it is sent to 
the Emperor of China for his confirmation. When the truth, of the revelation 
has been recognized by that potentate, it is made public, after' which the nobles, 
priests, and chief officers of government repair to the spot where the Lamas in- 
carnation has been predicated, and cpnduct him with much pomp to the capital, 
where being inaugurated, he takes up his abode in the, palace or sanctuary, arid 
enters on all the functions of his exalted station. According to Abdul Russool, 
the Grand Lama always appears as an only child, whose father is secretly immo- 
lated immediately after his son’s recognition. It is said, however, notwith- 
standing the fatal result above alluded to, that the honour of being father to the 
Lama is eagerly sought after, and that there never has been any instance of a 
Lama’s incarnation except in a rich family. 

Such is the Lama’s entrance. When his exit takes place, the bocU is exposed 
to the air until it becomes dry, after which it is enshrined in a case of highly 
wrought silver, representing a human figure in an upright attitude, and is thus 
deposited in the temple as an idol to be worshipped. The personal residence of 
the Grand Lama is at Patela, (about eight miles distant from the city of Lassa), 
where 170 priests of the first rank, devoted to prayer and the performance of 
never-ending ceremonies, reside with him in the palace. He is almost entirely 
secluded from the world, never appearing in public but once annually, when he 
repairs to the great temple to perform public worship at the commencement of 
the new year, and corresponding with the Hooly of the Brahminical Hindoos. 
Even after his installation he rarely gives any attention to the temporal affairs of 
his state, and none at all to its internal economy, yet it is said he generally takes 
exclusive cognizance of all correspondence with foreign states. On the arrival 
of a dispatch from a foreign government, it is carried directly to the Lama, w no 
immediately summons his council, who, after deliberation, repair to the resi- 
dence of the Chinese Tazin, where the consultation is renewed. If the subject 
be of extraordinary importance, a reference is made by the Tazm to the Erti- 
peror of China; if otherwise, the Tazin and council determine on the reply, 
which is carried to the Lama to receive the impression of his seal. 

The evils that might be expected to arise frotn the union of the priestly and 
rejgal dignities in the same person, are greatly neutralized in Tibet by the com 
plete seclusion of the Grand Lama from temporal affairs, his authority not ■ d# 
scending to. any of the inferior sacerdotal functionaries, who have no concern 



TIBET. 


57 6 

whatever with the civil government of the state. At the annual celebration . 
however, of the grand festival above mentioned, an exception occurs, as for 24 
days all the regular civil authorities continue suspended*, their power being for 
tliat period of time transferred -to the principal priests. In fact the Tibet nation 
appears to be divided into two distinct and separate classes, those who carry 
on the business-of the world, and those who hold intercourse with hesfren. No 
interference of the laity ever interrupts the regulated duties of the clergy, yet it 
does not appear tbat the first are interdicted the study of any^boofis held sacFed 
by the Lamas. The ritual or ceremonial worship appears to differ materially 
from that of the Brahminical Hindoos ; and from many of their prejudices, espe- 
cially such as relate to the perplexing distinctions of caste, theTibetians are wholly 
exempt. With tlie latter, religion is all system and order. A sovereign Lama; 
immaculate, immortal, omnipresent, and omniscient, is. placed at the summit ot\ 
their fabric ; the Hindoos, on the contrary, acknowledge no individual supreme 
authority. This Lama is esteemed the vicegerent of the deity, and he. is also 
the centre of a civil government, which, 'derives from his authority its chief 
influence and power. A regular gradation is also observed from the Grand 
Lama, through tlteAvhole order of Gy longs or monks, to the youngest noviciate. 

The dress of the religious orders in this portion of Asia is the regular habit 
of every attendant at court, and consists of a vest of woollen cloth, with sleeves 
of a deep garnet colour, and a large mantle, either of the same or of a thinner 
texture, resembling a shawl ; a sort of philibeg, and huge boots of Bulgar hides 
lined either with fur or cloth* complete their equipage. The priests of the two 
sects are distinguished from each other by their dress, the red and the yellow 
cap; but tire last is reckoned the most oithodox, having among its votaries the 
Emperor of China. The Grand or Dalai Lama of Lassa, the Teshoo Lama, and 
Tar&nath Lama, preside as pontiffs over the yellow, which sect, as may be sup- 
posed, prevails, over a great part of Tibet. In like manner three Lamas preside 
over the red division, viz. Lam Rimbochay, Lam Nawangmamghi, and Lam 
Ghassatoo. These have their residence in Bootan in separate monasteries ; the 
principal of the red dlass in Tibet has his residence at Sakia. The president of 
a monastery is always styled Lama. Their .religious monasteries and edifices are 
all adorned at each angle with the head of a lion, having bells hanging from his 
iower jaw, and the same figure is equally conspicuous at every projection of the 
palace wall; yet the animal is not a native of the country. 

According to Abdul Russool, the next person in rank at Lassa to the Grand 
Lama, is the Raja, who is also termed the Naib or deputy, and is the officer who 
ad ninisters the temporal affairs of the Lama’s dominions. This functionary is 
also considered a being of a mysterious origin, undergoing transmigrations 



TIBET. 


577 

similar to those of the supreme pontiff, and having his identity established by a 
similar process. Holding a character distinct from the sacerdotal, he may be 
regarded as the civil ruler of the state, limited on one hand by the influence of 
the Chinese Tazin, and on the other by the permanent laws of the realm. It has 
been stated above, that all political negociations with foreign powers come under 
the immediate cognizance of the Grand Lama, but during the interregna, occa- 
sioned by his frequent transmigrations, the conducting these affairs, as far as 
concerns the local government of Tibet, devolves on the Raja, next to whom in 
rank and authority is the council of the four Shubbehs or viziers, which indeed 
may be considered the efficient government as far as refers to domestic affairs. 
The members are always native Tibetians, and when a vacancy occurs it is filled 
up by the Raja in conjunction with the three surviving Viziers, but the appoint- 
ment must be sanctioned by the Chinese Tazin, and finally ratified by the Em- 
peror of China, with whom in reality it rests. Each Vizier receives in virtue of 
his office a considerable jaghire from the Lama, besides a salary from the Chinese 
government, equal to about 1500 rupees per annum, paid partly in silver and 
partly in Cocheen silk. In 1816, the three existing Viziers were Doorung 
Shubbeh, Shutteh Shubbeh, and Bangashur Shubbeh. 

The gradations of officers composing the local government of Tibet are the 
following: — 1st. The Raja; 2d. The council of the four shubbehs ; 3d. Two 
sheodebs, one for the country and the other for the capital ; 4th. The phom- 
poms, or officers of the exchequer ; 5th. The bukshy, or commander of the 
army; 6 th. The cutwall, or chief police magistrate of tha capita^ ZtkThe 
zoongpoons, who are magistrates, collectors of the revenue, and principal offi- 
cers of the police, similar to the tannadars in the British districts. These last 
are fixed at stations about 30 or 40 miles from each other, and have establish- 
ments under them consisting of 15 men armed with swords and matchlocks, but 
there does not appear to be any regular establishment of preventive police 
throughout Tibet, nor indeed are criminal offences of such frequent occurrence 
as to call for it. To guard against petty thefts and burglaries, all ranks are en- 
joined to keep large and active dogs resembling the Nepaul mastiffs. The sheo- 
debs above mentioned appear to be judges of appeal in the civil and criminal 
departments. In extraordinary cases appeals are permitted to the court of the 
four Viziers, to the Raja, and finally to the Chinese Tazin. 

The written laws of Tibet are said to be of great antiquity, and to have a strong 
analogy to those of China, according to which, in recent times, they have certainly 
been considerably modified. Robbery or dacoity is usually punished by per- 
petual banishment, except when attended with murder, in which case death is 
inflicted on the delinquent. Adultery is not classed among the criminal offences, 
vox.. II, 4 £ 



TIBET, 


578 

nor is its perpetration said to excite any irrascible feelings in the minds of this 
torpid people. With respect to matrimony, a custom prevails in Tibet, at once 
different from the modes of Europe, where one female becomes the wife of one 
male, and the opposite practice prevalent over the greater part of Asia, where 
one male exercises an uncontrouled despotism over many females. Here a cus- 
tom still more preposterous is found — that of polyandria, one female associating 
with all the brothers of the family, without any restriction of age or numbers ; 
the choice of the wife being the exclusive privilege of the elder brother. This 
arrangement differs considerably from the Nair customs on the coast of Malabar,, 
but a similar practice is said to be followed by the bearer caste in the pro vinci 
of Orissa. In the ceremony of marriage, the priests of Tibet have no share 
whatever, it being ratified and completed without their interference. The offi-\ 
cers of state, as well as those who aspire to such distinctions, deem it a business \ 
ill suited with their dignities and duties to attend to the propagation of the 
species, which they entirely abandon to mere plebeians. 

It is a general belief throughout Tibet, that the arts and sciences had their 
origin in the holy city of Benares, which the inhabitants have been taught to 
esteem as the source of both learning and religion ; the Company’s old provinces 
are consequently held in high estimation. The Gangetic provinces are called 
Anakhenk or Anonkhenk, and by the Tartars Enacac, which appellation has 
been extended so as to comprehend all India. It is asserted that the art of 
printing, that engine of good and evil, has from a very remote period been 
practised in Tibet, but so limited in its use, by the influence of superstition, 
that not the slightest improvement has ever taken place. Copies of religious 
works are multiplied not by moveable types, but by means of set forms, in the 
nature of stereotype, which they impress on thin slips of paper of their own 
fabrication. The letters run from the left to the right as in Europe. The printed 
and written character appropriated to works of learning and religion, is styled 
in the language of Tibet the Uchin ; that of business and correspondence the 
Umin. Their alphabet and character they acknowledge to be derived from the 
Sanscrit. When visited by Captain Turner in 1783, they were found acquainted 
with the existence of the satellites of Jupiter and the ring of Saturn. 

According to tradition, the ancient promulgators of their faith proceeded from 
Benares, and after having advanced to the east, over the empire of China, are 
said to have directed their course towards Ehrope. The funeral ceremonies per- 
formed by theCalmucks, near the river Wolga, in Russia, on the decease of their 
chief Lama, are nearly the same with those that take place at the funeral of a 
GylOng in Bootan, on the borders of Bengal, which shows the prodigious dif- 
fusion of the Lama religion and Hindoo system. Their own instruction in 



TIBET. 


579 

science and religion, the Tibetians refer to a period long prior to the existence 
of either in Europe ; but Sir William Jones considered them as Hindoos, who 
had engrafted the heresies of Buddha on their own mythological religion. The 
principal idol in their temples is Mahamuni, the Buddha of Hindostan, who is 
worshipped throughout the vast Tartarian plains under an infinite variety of 
names. Durga, Cali, Ganesa with his elephant head, Cartikeya (the Hindoo 
Mars), with many other Brahminical deities, have also a place in the Tibet pan- 
theon. The same places of popular esteem or religious resort are equally re- 
spected in Tibet and Bengal. Allahabad (or Rrayag), Benares, Durjodun, Gaya, 
Saugor island, and Juggernauth, being objects of devout pilgrimage, but the two 
last are deemed of pre-eminent sanctity, while Gaya, the birth place of their 
great legislator, is only of secondary rank. Those who are unable to perform 
the pilgrimages in person acquire a considerable degree of merit by hewing it 
effected by proxy. Within their own limits, the peak of Chumularee, probably 
the loftiest of the Himalaya, is greatly venerated both by the Buddhists and 
Brahminical Hindoos, who resort there as votaries to pay their adorations on 
its snow clad summit. No satisfactory explanation has ever been obtained of 
the peculiar sanctity ascribed to this mountain ; but it may be observed in 
general, that every singular phenomenon in nature becomes an object of wor- 
ship to the Hindoos, whether it be a snowy mountain, a hot well, the source or 
conflux of a river, a lake, or volcano. 

The inhabitants of Tibet, differing from most other nations (with the exception 
of the Lamas), either totally neglect the bodies of their dead, or treat them in a 
manner that appears highly barbarous. The inferior Lamas are consumed by 
fire, and their ashes deposited in little metallic idols, but common subjects are 
treated with much less ceremony. Some are carried to lofty eminences, where, 
aftei having been disjointed and the limbs divided, they are left a prey to ravens, 
kites, and other carnivorous birds ; but in more populous parts the dogs also 
participate in the repast. 

In a region so extended as that of Tibet, it is probable that there exists a 
great variety of manners, customs, and dialects ; but only a small portion due 
north of Bootan having ever been penetrated to any depth by Europeans, the 
following remarks may be considered as entirely applicable to that quarter. By 
Abdul Russool, who long resided among them, the subjects of the Grand Lama 
are represented as an industrious, contented, mild race of men, sluggish in their 
intellect, and phlegmatic in their amorous propensities. A genuine Tibetian 
begins his day with the performance of a short worship at the public temple, 
every village possessing one, after which he pursues his peculiar occupation 
until the evening, which is devoted to recreation. Dancing is a favourite amuse- 

4 £2 



TIBET. 


.580 

ment, and is performed by all ranks and degrees, there being no professional 
dancers as in Hindostan. Infanticide, so much practised in China, is said to be 
unknown hero. Marriage takes place about the age of from 20 to 22, and is 
usually' arranged by the parents of the parties, the female bringing a dower. 
Abdul Russool asserts, that the custom of one woman becoming the wife of all 
the brothers still prevails in Tibet, in which he agrees with Captain Turner and 
other travellers, but none of them furnish the slightest hint as to the manner in 
which the redundant females are disposed of. The original object of this dis- 
gusting practice was probably, in part, to prevent a too rapid increase of popu-j 
lation in a barren land, and it has been falling into disuse about Lassa since the! 
Chinese became predominant, but it must also be attributed to the torpid habits' 
and phlegmatic constitutions of the native Bhooteas or Tibetians, aggravated 
considerably by the multiplicity of their superstitious observances. Conjugal 
fidelity is consequently held in small estimation, a female being allowed to 
transfer her person and affections from one man to another, without incurring the 
least reproach for making the first advances. Inheritance descends from the 
father to the oldest son, and, in default of male issue, to the oldest brother or his 
sons ; but should the decease leave no sons, brothers, or brothers’ sons, the 
property devolves to his wife and her daughters. 

The natives of Tibet are accustomed to very warm clothing, the dress of the 
lower classes in summer being woollens of an interior description, and in winter 
sheep or foxes skins cured with the wool and fur on. About Lassa, the joobhas, 
or loose upper garments, and the trowsers of the upper classes, are made of 
European broad cloth, Chinese satin, Cochin silk, and Hindostany mushroo or 
kinkaub. In winter, the upper garments of the more affluent are lined with sable 
furs or otter skins ; the poorer classes then wear puttoo cloth of Tibet manufac- 
ture, lined with sheep, goat, and jackal skins, and, always travelling on level 
ground, carry a weight of clothing that bids defiance to the most piercing winds. 
Both here and in Bootan, the great men are peculiarly accustomed to travel in 
the dark. The houses of the peasantry are of a poor construction, and resemble 
brick kilns. They are built of rough stones heaped on each other, with three 
or four apertures to admit light. The roof is a flat terrace, surrounded by a 
parapet wall two or three feet high. The chief food of the Tibetians is mutton, 
with various preparations of barley mixed with tea and shraub (spirits or beer), 
and in their repasts they are.said to give a uniform preference to undressed crude 
meat. Of this description mutton is almost their only food, and at their feasts 
the table is seen spread with raw joints of fresh mutton, as well as boiled, the 
first being most esteemed. The ordinances of their religion forbid the eating of 
fowls, but eggs are an article of ordinary consumption. The h igher ranks eat off 



TIBET, 581 

china ware, the lower off copper, each individual about Lassa carrying with him 
a knife and fork of European manufacture, imported by the way of China. 

The smallpox i a a disorder as much dreaded by the natives of Tibet as the 
plague is in other parts of Asia. When it is known to exist in a village, the 
healthy hurry off and leave the infected to chance and the natural course of the 
distemper. The use of mercury for the cure of the venereal disease appears to 
have been early introduced, and is administered with considerable skill. The 
great scarcity of timber not permitting the inhabitants to have boarded floors, 
they are much troubled with cramps and rheumatic pains. On account of the 
high winds, sandy soil, and glare reflected from the snow and ground, the natives 
of Tibet are subject to sore eyes and total loss of sight. 

A white silk scarf is an invariable attendant on every intercourse of ceremony 
both in Bootan andTibet. A similar piece of silk is always transmitted under 
cover with letters, which in England would prove an expensive accompaniment. 
This manufacture is of a thin texture, resembling that sort of Chinese stuff 
called pelong, and is remarkable for the purity of its glossy whiteness. They are 
commonly damasked, and the sacred words, “ Ommani paimi Om,”are usually 
near both ends, which terminate in a fringe. The origin or meaning of this 
mode of intercourse has never been ascertained ; it is of such moment, however, 
that the Raja of Bootan once returned a letter to the resident at Rungpoor, 
which he had transmitted from the Governor General, merely because it came 
unattended with the bulky incumbrance, to testify its authenticity. 

The supreme controul of the western provinces subordinate to the Chinese is 
vested in the Deba or Viceroy of Oochong (Lassa), and the Deba of Gurdon 
possesses considerable power, but employments and honours are open to all 
orders of the people, there being no castes or privileged classes in Tibet. In 
1816 , an instance occurred, when an iron-smith was promoted from the anvil to 
the situation of Shubbeh, or Vizier of the great council. Wherever a Deba re- 
sides, a Lama is also appointed, the first being the civil and military governor, 
the last, a pontiff, to whom the conducting of spiritual arrangements is dele- 
gated, and both authorities are frequently relieved or transferred from one 
station to another. All foreign merchants and other strangers experience liberal 
treatment in Tibet, and where there are a considerable number of any particular 
nation collected, as Nepaulese and Cashmerians, they are permitted to adjust, 
their own peculiar disputes by punchait or arbitration. This disposition to 
liberality, however, has in modern times been greatly counteracted by the pro- 
verbial jealousy of their Chinese superiors, who view all strangers, especially 
Europeans, and of Europeans the British, with singular horror and suspicion. 
Neither clots the sterile soil and rigid climate of Tibet present any attractions. 



582 


TIBET. 


for it at once restrains population within the narrowest bounds, and by the ab- 
sence of exportable productions prevents the extension of commerce ; indeed, 
the state of affairs is exactly such as might be expected in a country governed 
by a sluggish hierarchy, entirely dependant for protection on a foreign and very 
distant government. 

With the exception of one gold mine, according to Abdul Russool, the 
revenue of the state is wholly derived from the land rent, which is fixed in its 
amount by the ancient and unalterable records of the country, where the sum 
due by each respective estate is particularly specified, and collected agreeably 
thereto by the Zoongpoons deputed from Lassa. The tenures by which landed 
property are held are said greatly to resemble those of Bengal, and may, lifte 
them, be sold and transferred in whatever manner is most agreeable to the pi^>- 
prietor, and when retained descend in regular succession. The tenants and cul- 
tivators who punctually discharge the legal demands against them can neither 
be removed nor have that demand augmented. The revenue when collected is 
forwarded to Lassa, where it is deposited with the Phompoms, or revenue 
officers, who, under the controul of the council of Viziers, have charge of the 
general treasury, and superintend the state disbursements. There is no regular 
tribute paid by the Tibet state to the emperors of China, but an inconsiderable 
present is annually sent to him by the Grand Lama, who receives one in return 
of much greater value. 

The geographical and chronological knowledge of the Tibetians is so very 
limited that no accurate information has yet been procured either of the ancient 
extent of the kingdom, or of the age of their religious institutions. Their cycle 
is that of 12 years, and their year is subdivided into 12 months, commencing, 
like the Hindoo Hooly, at the vernal equinox. In 1816, the Deba of Tuklacot 
informed Captain Webb, that 130 years had elapsed since the perfect subjec- 
tion to China of the provinces adjacent to the British possessions in northern 
Hindostan ; but there is reason to believe that that event took place about A. D. 
1720, when the Emperor of China acquired the sovereignty of Tibet, in the old 
way, by interfering in the quarrels of two contending parties. On the 5th of 
July, 1780, the Teshoo Lama died in China of the small pox, in the 47th year of 
his age. In December, 1783, his successor, although only 18 months old, and 
unable to speak, when visited by the British ambassador, conducted him- 
self with astonishing dignity and decorum ; such were the effects of early 
discipline. 

The afiairs of Tibet continued in a flourishing, or at ieast tranquil condition, 
until 1790, when the Gorkhas of Nepaul, without provocation, commenced hos- 
tilities, the first experienced for many years, and invaded Tibet. Their progress 



tAssA.] TIBET. 583 

was rapid, and being wholly unexpected, they appeared so suddenly before 
Teshoo Loomboo as scarcely to allow the Lama and his Gylongs time to effect 
their escape, which they did with great difficulty across the Brahmaputra. 
Having then plundered Teshoo Loomboo of the accumulated contributions of 
ages, and the tombs of their most valuable ornaments, the Nepaulese army 
withdrew to their own country, into which they were pursued by the Chinese, 
defeated in several actions, and at last forced to sue for peace on most ignomi- 
nious terms, being compelled to restore all the plunder captured at Teshoo 
Loomboo, and pay an annual tribute. Since that epocha the Lamas have en- 
joyed profound peace, but their influence has been much weakened, or rather 
overpowered, by that of their terrestrial protector the Emperor of China. The 
year 1816 was a period of the Grand or Dalai Lamas disappearance from the 
earth, the human form which he last animated having ceased to breath on the 
13th of the Persian month Rubbee ul Sanee, in the year of the Hijera 1230, at 
the age of eleven, and after a reign spiritual and temporal of four years. — 
(N. Macleod, Abdul Russool , Captain Turner , Bogle , Moor croft, Rennell , F. 
Buchanan , §c. 8$c. $$c.) 

Lassa (Lehassa). — The capital of Chinese Tibet and residence of the Dalai 
Lama, 45 days journey from Pekin, and 220 miles north from the N. E. corner 
of the Bengal province. Lat. 29° 30 N. long. 91° 6' E. By the Chinese it is 
named Oochoong. According to Abdul Russool, who resided there several years, 
Lassa is situated on the southern bank of a small river, and is of an oval form, 
about four miles long by one in breadth. In the centre stands the grand temple, 
which consists of an extensive range of buildings, enclosing an area of an oval 
figure, occupying altogether about 40 begahs of land. The buildings which 
compose this assemblage are the sanctuaries of the various idols worshipped by 
-the Tibetians, each having its own peculiar place of adoration, supplied with 
appropriate ornaments. These buildings (mostly of stone but partly of brick) 
are of various forms and dimensions, corresponding to the relative dignity of the 
deity to which they are consecrated. One of these, pre-eminent above the rest, 
is termed the Louran, being dedicated to the divinity who ranks first in the 
Tibet pantheon, under the title of Clioo Eeuchoo. 

Around the great temple, and parallel with its outward enclosure, is a kind of 
circular road of considerable breadth, and beyond this road is a range of houses 
of an oval form, which composes the bazar or market, and is occupied by petty 
traders and artificers. The wealthier merchants and higher classes reside on 
the outside of this range, in houses for the most part built of stone, usual two, 
but sometimes three stories high, the ground floor being converted into a shop. 
About a mile north of the town there is a stream of running water, half a mile 



584 TIBET [teshoo loomboo* 

wide during the rainy season, but at other periods only one quarter of a mile# 
and according to Abdul Russool, at no time navigable. This traveller gives no 
estimate of the total population, but states the Chinese resident here in private 
capacities at 2000 ; the Nepaulese at between 2 and 3000, and the Cashmerians 
at 150. Eight miles west of Lassa there is a town named Talingaon, containing 
3 or 400 houses, with a bridge of eight or ten arches over a river of the same 
name. The floor of the bridge is laid with timber, some of^the weeping willovr 
tree, covered with earth. 

Sakya, the last great teacher of the Buddhists, according to their tenets, still 
exists at Lassa, incarnate in the person of the Grand or Dalai Lama, who isj the 
pontifical sovereign, but his temporal influence is almost wholly superseded by 
that of the Chinese Tazin, or viceroy, whose authority extends west to the 
sources of the Ganges, a distaifce of about 650 miles. With the city of Teshoo 
Loomboo, distant about 120 miles S. W. Lassa exchanges silver bullion, imported 
from China, for gold dust. The ancient history of Lassa is wholly unknown, al- 
though from its reputed sanctity there probably exist records or traditions 
about it. In the year 1715, the King of the Eluths (migratory tribes) invaded 
this country, when Lassa w r as ransacked, the temples plundered, and all the 
Lamas that could be found were put into sacks, thrown upon camels, and 
transported into Tartary.— (Abdul Russool, N. Macleod, Captain Turner , Kirk- 
patrick , Colebrooke, 8$c. 8$c.) 

Jamdiio (or Palte Lake ). — A lake of a singular construction, which, according 
to native authorities, is situated about the 29th degree of north latitude, 40 miles 
south of Lassa and within five of the Brahmaputra. In form it is said rather to 
resemble a circular island, 33 miles in diameter, surrounded by a broad ditch or 
channel ; but its existence in any shape whatever may be considered doubtful. 
As the course of the Brahmaputra is in this quarter of Tibet, the central island 
may be a tract of country, surrounded by that river or its branches. 

Teshoo Loomboo (or Diggarcheh). — The seat of the Teshoo Lama, who is 
protected and worshipped by the Chinese emperors of the present dynasty. 
Lat. 29° T N. long. 89° 2' E. 180 miles N. from the frontiers of the Rungpoor 
district in Bengal. 

Teshoo Loomboo, or Lubrong, is properly a large monastery, consisting of 
3 or 400 houses, the habitations of the Gylongs (monks), besides temples, man* 
soleums, and the palace of the sovereign pontiff. Its buildings are all of stone* 
and none less than two stories high, flat roofed, and covered with a parapet 
xisrng considerably above the roof, composed of heath and brushwood. The 
fortress of Shiggatzee Jeung stands on a prominent ridge of rock* and commands 
the pass. Frdm hence there are roads to Bootan and Bengal* t6 Lahore and 



TESHOO LOOMBOO.] TIBET. 585 

Cashmere, to the mines of lead, cinnabar, copper, and gold by Tingri to Ne- 
paul, to Lassa, and to China. The distance from hence to Catmandoo by the 
marching road is estimated at 400 miles. In 1780, the journey of the deceased 
Lama's attendants, from Pekin to Teshoo Loomboo, occupied seven months and 
eight days. On the north is the territory of Taranath Lama, bordering upon 
Russia and Siberia, whose influence more especially extends over the Kilmauks, 
or hordes of Calmuck Tartars. 

The plain of Teshoo Loomboo is perfectly level, and is encompassed on all 
sides by high rocky hills. • Its direction is north and south, and its extreme 
length 15 miles ; its southern extremity in breadth from east to west is about 
five or six miles. The river Panomchieu, flowing from the south, intersects it, 
and at a small distance to the north joins the Brahmaputra. The hills are of a 
rocky nature, of the colour of rusty, iron, and are easily shivered by the weather 
into little cubical pieces, small enough to be moved about by the wind. The rock 
of Teshoo Loombo is by far the loftiest of all that are in its neighbourhood. 
From tbe summit the eye commands a very extensive prospect, but no striking 
traces of population are to be discovered, the natives crowding into the hollow 
recesses. From the north side the celebrated river Brahmaputra, styled in the 
language of Tibet, Erechoomboo and Sanpoo, or the river, is visible, flowing in 
a widely extended bed'through many winding channels, forming a multitude of 
islands. Its principal channel is described as being narrow, deep, and never 
fordable. 

In 1783, when visited by Captain Turner, there were reckoned on the establish- 
ment of the monastery at Teshoo Loomboo, no less than 3700 gylongs, for the 
performance of daily prayer in the Goomba, or temple. Four Lamas, chosen 
from among them, superintend and direct their religious ceremonies. Their 
stated periods of devotion are the rising of the sun, noon, and sun set. Youths 
intended for the service of the monastery are received into it at the age of eight 
or ten years. On admission they are enjoined sobriety, forego the society of 
women, and confine themselves to the austere practices of the cloister. There 
are also a considerable number of nunneries, the regulations of which are equally 
strict, and an extensive establishment under the direction of the monastery for 
the manufacture of images. At the capital 300 Hindoo Gosains and Sanyassies 
are daily fed by the bounty of the Lama. The extent of his dominions, and the 
details of his government, are little known ; but the system certainly exhibits a 
hierarchy of long duration, and of some practical benefit to society. Tbe 
gylongs, or monks, having devoted themselves to the duties of religion, obtain 
a larger portion of respect from their countrymen who follow worldly avoca- 
tions. Being attached by a common bond of union, the one portion to labour, 

voju n. 4 r 



TIBET. 


586 


[fttABI. 


and the other to pray, they enjoy in peace and harmony the bounties of nature, 
and before the Nepaulese inroad in 1790, found it unnecessary to maintain a 
single armed man either to defend their territory or to assert their rights. Since 
that unjust attempt, the bonds of their dependance on the Chinese have b eOn 
tightened ; and in 1816, the police of the town of Diggarcheh, or Teshoo Loom- 
boo, was under the charge of a resident Zoongpoon, acting under the Tazin and 
judicial authorities at Lassa. — (Captain Turner , Kirkpatrick, Abdul Russool, 8fc.) 

Painomjeung. — A castle in Tibet loftily situated on a perpendicular rock, 
washed by a river which flows at its foot. Lat. 29° T N. long. 89° 18' El 17 
mdes E. S. E. from Teshoo Loomboo. Below the castle is a bridge of rough 
stones, upon nine piers of a very rude structure. The Tibetians invariably place 
their strong buildings on rocks, and most of their monasteries haye similar foun- 
dations. — (Captain Turner , &;c.) \ 

Jhansu-Jeung. — A fortified rock in Tibet, which, from its perpendicular 
height, and the irregularity of its cliffs, appears impregnable. Lat. 28° 40' N. 
long. 89° 3 T E. 37 miles S. E. from Teshoo Loomboo. The valley of Jhansu is 
very extensive, and has greatly the appearance of have been once under water, 
the bed of a lake. The valley is populous and well cultivated, and particularly 
famous for the manufacture of woollens, of two colours, garnet and white, which 
seldom exceed half a yard in breadth. They are close woven and thick like 
frieze, and are very soft to the touch, the fleece of the sheep being remarkably 
fine. — (Captain Turner , §c.) 

Chaloo. — A village in Tibet, situated midway between two lakes. Lat. 
28° 20' N. long. 89° 25' E. 60 miles 8. S. E. from Teshoo Loomboo. These lakes 
are frequented by a great abundance of wild fowl, such as geese,, ducks, teal, 
and storks, which, on the approach of winter, take their flight to milder regions. 
Prodigious numbers of saurasses, the largest of the crane kind, are seen here at 
certain seasons of the year, and great quantities of their eggs are collected on 
the banks. One of the lakes is held in high esteem by the Bootanners, who fancy 
it a favourite haunt of their chief deities. The vicinity, although a table land' 
of great elevation, produces a dwarfish wheat of the lammas kind, and to the 
north there is a plain impregnated with a saline substance resembling natron, and 
called by the natives of Hindostan, where it is also found in great abundance, 
soojee-mutti. — (Captain Turner , 

Chamalari. — A n elevated peak of the Himalaya, a mountain near the con- 
fines of Tibet and Bootan, estimated, but without having been satisfactorily as- 
certained, at 26,000 feet in height. Lat. 28° 4' N. long. 89° 23' E. 125 miles N. 
from the town of Cooch Bahar, in the Rungpoor district. 

PnAtti for Parudongy r-A fortress in the southern portion of Tibet, towards 



TIBET. 


KHER00.] 


587 


the Bootan frontier. Lat. 27° 58' N. long. 89° 14' E. This fortress is a stone 
building of an irregular form but deemed by the natives of great strength. On 
the north-west there is an extensive suburb, and on the south a large basin of 
water. The valley of Phari is very extensive compared with the narrow slips of 
land in Bootan, and is the station df the Phari Lama, who is here a little poten- 
tate, beihg superintendent of a monastery, and governor of a most elevated tract 
of rocks and deserts, yielding verdure only during the mildest season of the 
year, at which time this neighbourhood is frequented by large herds of the long 
haired bushy tailed cattle. The musk deer are also found in great numbers 
among these mountains. 

At the fortress perpetual winter may be said to reign. Chamalari is for ever 
clothed with snow, and from its remarkable form is probably the mountain 
which is occasionally visible from Pumeah and Rajamahal in Bengal. In this 
vicinity wheat does not ripen, yet it is occasionally cultivated as forage for 
cattle during the depth of winter. The plains and adjacent mountains are fre- 
quented by large droves of cattle, shawl goats, deer, musk deer, hares, and other 
wild animals. There are also partridges, pheasants, quails, and a great multi- 
tude of foxes. Such is said to be the intensity of the frost here, although in so 
low a latitude as 28°, that animals exposed in the open field are found dead, 
with their heads split open by its 'force. In 1792, the Chinese established a 
military post at Phari, which put a stop to all direct communication between 
the Lassa viceroyalty and the province of Bengal ; the approach of strangers 
from thence being utterly prohibited. Captain Turner , 8$c.) 

Sh eg ul. — A fortress and Chinese garrison in Tibet, situated on the east side of 
the Arun river, which penetrates the Himalaya, and ultimately along with the 
waters of the Cosi falls into the Ganges in the province of Bengal. Lat. 28° 
24' N. long. 87° 12' E. 

Thakooe Goo mba. — A town in Tibet, the residence of Saymrupa Lama, 
90 miles N. E. from Catmandoo. Lat. 28° 28' N. long. 86° 8' E. 

Tinoex. — A fortress in the Tingri plain, which, according to Abdul Russool, 
has two pieces of cannon and a garrison of 200 Chinese soldiers. The adjacent 
village contains only 40 houses, although it lies on the main road from Catmandoo 
to Lassa, and is a post where supplies of horses may be procured. From hence 
to Teshoo Lbomboo tbe road is level, and it was by this route the Gorkha troops 
inarched when they invaded Tibet and plundered Teshoo Loomboo in 1792. 
( Abdul Rusrnl, 6$c. 8fc.) 

K heroo (or JSnwgj.-fThis place stands at one of the principal passes 
through the Himalaya mountains, where the boundaries are so difficult to dis- 
tinguish, that it may either be assigned to Tibet or to Northern Hindostan. Lat. 

4 f 2 



588 


TIBET. 


[CAILAS MOUNTAINS. 

28° 22 N. long. 85° 23' E. 52 miles N. N. E. from Catmandoo. This was once 
a large place but is now inconsiderable, having been laid waste prior to 1790, by 
an incursion of the Cala Soogpa Tartars, who occupy the country north of Joon- 
gale, and who for some time possessed themselves of Lassa. From Kheroo there 
are no snowy mountains to be seen in the northern quarter; but there are in the 
south, west, and south-east quarters. In 1816/ Kheroo was the residence of some 
Chinese authorities of rank, where a considerable body of troops detached in 
advance from the main body, supposed then at Teshoo Loomboo, had arrived and 
were quartered. — ( Kirkpatrick , Gardner , S$c.) J 

Mustung. — A town in Tibet, situated near to the supposed source of the 
Gunduck. Lat. 29° 52' N. long. 83° 5' E. The Mustung Raja is a Bhootea 
chief, who in 1802 was tributary to the Gorkha dynasty of Nepaul ; but tbere\is 
reason to believe that since that date, the Gorkhas have been compelled to ceie 
both Mustung and Kheroo to the Chinese. — (F. Buchanan , <§'cj 

Muktinatik — The Narayani river (a contributary stream to the Gunduck) 
rises near the perennial snow, from the warm sources of Muktinath, a very cele- 
brated place of Hindoo pilgrimage, situated in lat. 29° 9" N. long. 83° 18' E. 
about 90 miles north of the frontiers of the Gorucpoor district. The usual love 
of fable has multiplied these sources to 1000 in number, but an intelligent native, 
who had visited the place, reduces them to seven ; the most remarkable being 
the Agnicoond, or fire spring, which is in a temple, where it issues from among 
stones, accompanied by a flame that rises a few inches, and although not copious 
is continual. The water falls immediately into a well or cistern, about two feet 
wide, and the whole appears from description entirely to resemble that of Seeta- 
coond in Chittagong ; that is to say, the water has no connexion with a subter- 
raneous fire, the flame being occasioned by the combustion of an inflammable air 
issuing from the crevices of a rock, over which the water has been -artificially 
conducted. — ( F. Buchanan , §c.) 

Th akacote. — This is the chief mart of trade between that portion of Northern 
Hindostan adjacent to the course of the Gunduck river and Tibet, the goods 
being mostly conveyed on the shoulders of men, or on the backs of sheep. Lat. 
29° 6' N. long. 83° 6' E. According to native accounts the Gunduck is nowhere 
fordable below this place, being crossed either on wooden bridges, or on bridges 
made jof ropes and rattans. The place is said to contain about 1000 houses, 
situated in a fine valley, which has been compared with that of Nepaul, but it is 
not so wide. At at a short distance to the south-west, the White Mountain, 
Dhawalagiri, rears its enormous head, estimated to be 26,462 feet above die 
level of the sea. 

Cailas Mountains. — This ridge is situated about the 31st degree of north 



MANASAROVARA LAKE.] TIBET. 589 

latitude, slanting to the north-west and south-east, almost parallel to the Hima- 
laya, but its eastern and western limits remain unknown. West from Lake Ma- 
nasarovara for about 200 miles the separation is very distinctly marked by the 
course of the Sutuleje, the intervening space, from 30 to 40 miles in breadth, 
being the valley through which that river flows to the north-west until it winds 
to the south, and penetrates the Himalaya, about lat. 32° N. It is probable the 
Cailas range is little, if at all, loftier than the Himalaya ; but behind it the plain 
evidently declines, as the waters there have a northerly course through the vast 
Tartarian plain. A lofty peak on the north-west, covered with never-melting 
snow, is supposed to be the favourite throne of Siva, who must find it rather a 
cool seat at toy season of the year. By the Hindoos it is named Cailas, and by 
the Tartars Kooatas. Some mountain torrents rise in the Cailas ridge, and dis- 
embogue into the Rawan Hrad lake. The principal of these are the Siva Gunga, 
the Gauri Gunga, the Dharchan Gadra, and the Catyayani. 

The portion of Tibet situated between the Cailas and Himalaya mountains, 
appears to be a sort of elevated table land, yet studded with irregular hills and 
ridges of mountains, some covered with everlasting snow, others only partially 
concealed; but the whole bare of verdure, rocky and barren. The intervening 
vallies are of a better description, and afford during the height of summer pas- 
turage to the flocks of the inhabitants, who, with the exception of a few gylums 
(monks) and their associates, seem to be migratory, as on the approach of winter 
they seek refuge with their cattle in a milder climate. During the short sum- 
mer the heat is such as to admit of their raising a small quantity of grain, but not 
sufficient even for the few inhabitants of this desolate region, which on the other 
hand is rich in mines of gold, and probably of other metals, ana steams with 
springs, hot, saline, calcareous, and sulphurous. This tract also includes the 
two holy lakes of Mtoasarovara, and Rawan’s Hrad, and with the Hindoos the 
whole is sacred land, probably on account of its sterile soil, horrible climate, 
and difficult access. 

Manasaeovara Lake, or, as it is named by the inhabitants of the Undes 
and Chinese Tartars, Choo Mapang, is- bounded on the south by the great Hi- 
malaya range ; on the east by a prolongation of the Cailas ridge ; and on the 
north and west by very high land, under the forms of a mountain, a table, a 
ravine, and a slope, all declining towards the lake. It appears to be of an ob- 
long shape, having the east, west, and south sides nearly straight. That of the 
north (especially the north-east, where there is a plain at the base of the ele- 
vated land;) indented and irregularly trending to the east. The angles are not 
sharp, if they were its figure would be nearly square. In length from east to 



TIBET, 


590 


[M AH AS ABO V AAA LAKE. 


west it may be estimated at 15 miles, and in breadth from north to south about 
11 miles. Lat. 31° N. long. 81° E. 

The water, except when disturbed by the wind, is clear and well-tasted. No 
weeds are observed on the surface, but grass is thrown up from the bottom. The 
centre and the sides furthest from the spectator s eye reflect a green colour, and 
the whole has an impressive appearance whether quiet or agitated. But it ia 
seldom allowed to remain tranquil, as the sudden changes of the temperature m 
this neighbourhood are attended with violent gusts of wind. The heat of tho 
sua while near the meridian, and the cold emanating from the masses of snoVir on 
the surrounding mountains, maintain an incessant conflict in the atmosphere. 
It is not known at what season this alpine basin contains the greatest body of 
water, but in the month of August it is probably at the driest, as when visited* 
by Mi. Moorcroft in that month the water-courses from the mountains were 
without moisture. No appearance, however, indicated that the bed of the lake 
ever rose more than^our feet higher than its existing level at the time he viewed 
it, which elevation would be quite insufficient to make it overflow its banks. 
The beach of the lake is mostly covered with fragments of stone rounded, and, 
when of small size, thinned by the continued action of the waves ; but in some 
parts there are masses of red and green granite,- marble, and limestone, appa- 
rently fallen from the face of the rock, which is in many places 300 feet in per- 
pendicular height, and cut by the water-courses which proceed from the table 
land in the vicinity of the lake. On the front of this high bank, at 10 td 30 yards 
from the ground, -are houses made of loose stones and wood, to appearance only 
accessible by ladders, yet, inhabited ; probably by religious devotees. 

Wild geese are observed to quit the plains of India on the approach of the 
rainy season, during which period Lake Manssarovarh is covered with them; 
indeed, the Hindoos suppose that the whole tribe of geese, which is sacred to 
Brahma, retire to the holy lake when the rains draw nigh. The water's edge is 
at all times bordered by a line of wrack grass, mixed with the feathers and 
quills of the grey goose, which breed in vast numbers among the surrounding 
rocks, and here find food when in Bengal it is concealed by the inundation. 
Many aquatic eagles are also seen perched on the rocky crags, and various kinds 
of gulls skimming along the water. Clouds of large black gnats skim along the 
surface of the lake, and become a prey to a species of trout without scales, 
which in their turn are devoured by feathered foes. There are many water- 
courses, the Streams of which fall into the lake when the snows melt. The 
most important, named the Krishna, sweeps down a ravine between two high 
mountains of the Himalaya chain, and expands to a sheet of water as it fq»- 



TIBET. 


juwan’s head lak«.1 


591 


proaches the lake; but Mr. Moorcroft considered it certain that Manasarovara 
sends out no river to the south, north, or west. His stay, however, was too 
short to allow of his making a complete circuit of it; but, adverting to the diffi- 
culty of supposing the evaporation of the lake’s surface in so cold a climate to 
be equivalent to the influx of water from the surrounding mountains during the 
season of thaw, it may still be conjectured, that although no river run from it, 
nor any outlet appear at the level at which it was seen by Mr. Moorcroft, it may 
have some drain for its superfluous waters when more swollen, and at its greatest 
elevation perhaps communicates with Lake Rawan (in which the Sutuleje has its 
source), conformably to the oral information received from native travellers. 

Manasarovara is considered one of the most sacred of all the Hindoo places 
of pilgrimage, not merely on account of its remoteness and the rugged dangers 
of the journey, but also from the necessity which compels the pilgrim to bring 
with him both money and provisions, which last he must frequently eat uncooked 
on account of the want of fuel. The name is derived, from the word manasa, 
divine, and sarovara, a lake. It is not ascertained why it is called Ohoo Ma- 
pang by the inhabitants of Undes and the Chinese Tartars, but they consider it 
an act of religious duty to carry the ashes of their deceased relations to the lake, 
there to be mixed with its sacred waters. On different parts surrounding the 
lake are the huts of lamas and gelums or gylongs (monks), placed in romantic 
spots, and decorated with streamers of different coloured cloths and hair flying 
from high poles fixed at the corners and on the roofs of the houses. Along the 
beach at low water mark are scattered the bones of many yaks, or bushy-tailed 
cattle, but there is no reason to believe that they are the relics of animals that 
have been sacrificed. It is more probable they have been either suffocated in 
the snow, or starved to death during the winter, as while the herbage lasts, the 
Tartars and Jowarries feed their numerous flocks in the vicinity. The best 
shawl wool comes from the neighbourhood of Ooprang Cote, near the lake, and 
according to native accounts the Chinese have a valuable gold mine in that part 
of Tibet beyond the Cailas range north-east from Manasarovara. — ( Moorcroft , 
Colebrooke, fyc.) 

Rawax’s Head ( or Roodh ) Lake. — This lake is within a short distance wetft 
of Manasarovara, probably not more than ten miles, but being less holy it has 
not been examined with the same attention. .Rawan Hrad, by native travellers, 
was always represented as surrounding and insulating some large portions of 
rock, a little; detached from the great Himachil, but Mr. Moorcroft had reason 
to believe this description incorrect. According to his observation the lake con- 
sists of two legs or branches, which are long and not very broad. One 1«| 
extends towards Manasarovara, is straight, and ends in a point; the other 



TIBET. 


592 


[tirtapcri. 


stretches to the south among the hills, and where they diverge, opposite to the 
town of Darchan, or Gangri, an angle is formed. To Mr. Moorcroft the eastern 
limb appeared about five miles in length, but on account of the intervening moun~ 
tains no estimate could be formed of the southern limb. A cascade issues front 
the rocks above Darchan, and falls into the Rawan Hrad, which is supplied by 
the melting of the snow on the gfeat mountains at the base of which it is situated. 
In consequence of these thaws many rivulets are known to proceed from the 
southern face of the Calais ridge ; but it is also probable a large quantity of 
water descends from the northern face of the Himalaya chain. At a distance its 
waters seem of an indigo blue colour. From the west end flows the Satkdru, 
or Sutuleje, river. \ 

Vast numbers of -geese breed on the banks of this lake, which is probably 
better stored with fish than Manasarovara, as one edge of its bank is fringed 
with grass of a considerable height, and there is swampy land at the mouths of 
the streams which discharge their waters into its basin. The natives assert that 
it is four times larger than Manasarovara. . The name is derived from Rawan, a 
celebrated demon, the antagonist of the demigods, and legitimate sovereign of 
Ceylon, from whence hewa& expelled by the great Parasu Rama, assisted by the 
sage counsels of his gigantic prime minister, the monkey Hunimaun . — ( Moor- 
croft , §c. 6 ’fcj 

Dharchan (or Gangari ) This place stands a few miles north of the two 
lakes above described, and probably serves as an entrepot between Lassa and 
Lahdack. Individual merchants pitch their tents, and a sort of mart continues 
from June to October ; but when visited by Mr. Moorcroft the town consisted 
of only four houses of unbnmed bricks and about 28 tents, occupied by some 
jowauree and dhermu grain merchants, and also by three tea merchants, who 
asserted they had been at Pekin. The people here wear garments of kid skins, 
having the hair turned inwards and made soft by rubbing, and* unlike the neigh* 
bouring Tartars (who have their hair plaited}, cut it all round, so that li hangs 
low and loose on their necks. Lat. 31° 4' N. long. 81? 13' E . — ( Moorcroft , 
Webb , &p.) 

TiRTAfruRi. — This place is perched on the top Of a table land 200 feet higher 
than the plain, and is the residence of a Lama and several Gelums, who dwell 
in separate houses of rough stone, and lead* a pastoral life. Lat. 31° N. 
long. 80° 45' E. The town is overhung by steep craggy limestone rocks, insu- 
lated pillars of which, having resisted the weather longer than the softer portions* 
seem ready to tumble on the inhabitants. About a quarter of a mile to the west 
of the town are two hot springs of clear water (bursting from a calcareous table 
rock 12 feet high, and nearly half a mile in diameter.} too hot tp .admit of allow- 



TIBET. 


UKDES.] 


593 


ing the hand to remain in it. This calcareous table has itself been formed of the 
substance deposited by the spring whilst cooling, and is as white as pure stucco. 
The water as it overflows the little basins forms a great variety of phantastic 
figures, the calcareous matter being probably supplied by the chalky mountains 
above Tirtapuri. The low swampy land in the vales yield a grass, which is cut 
and carried for winter hay for the horses of the Garpan, and the people of Kien- 
lung, Deba, and Dumpu. Nearly opposite to the Lama’s house is a broad wall 
of stone, 150 yards long and 4 broad, covered with great numbers of loose stones 
on which prayers have been inscribed by pilgrims. There are also many small 
maths (temples) having niches in one side, in which are impressions in unburned 
clay of Lamas and Hindoo deities, and on some piles of loose stones are figures 
of Lamas, of Narayan (Vishnu), and of Bhasmasur, carved on large flat pebbles. 

To the north-west of Tirtapuri is Misar, a small hamlet consisting only of one 
house, built of bricks baked in the sun, and five tents occupied by goatherds. 
In the neighbourhood of Misar, gold dust abounds, and Mr. Moorcroft saw one 
person who possessed to the value of 5000 rupees. At Mis^r, every person dis- 
posed to adventure in the mines pays the chief one fitauk as an entrance fee, 
and also engages to give him all lumps beyond a certain size, yet the trade is so 
lucrative, that although the gold digger only works for three months of the year, 
he expects his labours will furnish sustenance for the remaining nine. — ( Moor - 
croft, %c.) 

Undes (Urna Dcsa ). — This is the general name of the* tract of country situ- 
ated between the Cailas and Himalaya ridges, of mountains west of Lake Ra- 
wan’s Hrad (or Roodh), and intersected by the course of the Sutuleje river, which 
issuing from that lake flows to the north-west. Niti Ghaut, or pass through 
the Himalaya, separates the Undes from Bhootant and the sources of the 
Ganges. This pass is about half a mile broad, and almost destitute of vegeta- 
tion, which is destroyed by the cold piercing wind sweeping through it from 
the elevated table land of Tibet. After surmounting the pass, several piles of 
stones are heaped, on which sticks are seen, adorned with rags of different 
colours, the offerings of travellers, and tokens of their having overcome so diffi- 
cult an ascent. To the north-west, Undes is bounded by Lahdack or Little 
Tibet. 

After crossing the Sutuleje a few miles north of Deba, where it is 80 yards 
broad and 3|- feet deep, there are three villages, painted of different colours, 
which are the winter residencies of the inhabitants of Deba and Dong. The 
adjacent hills, said to be rich in gold, are composed of granite of mixed colours 
(the red predominating), with horizontal strata of quartz, and small fibrous veins 

voi, II. 4 o 



TIBET. 


594 


[UNDES. 


of a white material like agate descending perpendicularly. Where the rock 
has been exposed to the weather, its surface is broken into small pieces, having 
little more cohesion than clay burned in the sun. The gold is separated by 
washing, there being no fuel in the neighbourhood, or rather no wood, for there 
is an appearance of coal. In the bed of the Sutuleje are many large flowering 
shrubs, resembling the tamarisk, and rising from three inches to eight feet in 
height, according to situation. The goats and yaks are fond of its foliage. 
The latter bite the grass very close to the ground, which fits them to crop the 
short and scanty herbage of these dreary mountains. On a plain, partly bounded 
by the Sutuleje, about half a mile in length and breadth, are many shallow pits 
made by persons in search of gold dust, and also deserted caves in the\rocks, 
originally excavated for the same purpose. \ 

The Undes abounds with hares, which are longer in the hind legs, shorter in 
their bodies, and altogether smaller than those of England, but their fur is both 
finer and longer : when disturbed they fly to the mountains, but frequently stop 
and rise on their hind legs to look at their pursuers. They are v$ry prolific, and 
their flesh is \p!l tasted. Wild horses and asses are occasionally seen, and also 
the animal with enormous horns named the bharal. The horses appear to be 
about 13 handfe in height, and are very shy. Animals of a fawn colour, about 
the size of a . rat, with long ears, but without tails, are seen in considerable num- 
bers ; and also a species of bird resembling a grouse. Rhubarb is seen to the 
north of the Sutuleje, and the whole tract is famous as the favourite country of 
the shawl wool, goat. Toling, the residence of the head Lama, stands in lat. 
31° 19 N. long. 79° 48' E. 

While the Undes continued under the government of the Suryabans (children 
of the sun) caste of Rajpoots, and alfeo after it passed under the dominion of the 
Chinese, the independent Tartars of Lahdack were extremely troublesome to the 
inhabitants by the frequency of their inroads, and only ceased their depreda-* 
tions in consequence of the country having b$en bestowed on the Dalai Lama. 
On this event their religious prejudices influenced them to desist from molest- 
ing the subjects of the supreme head of their faith. The last Raja (whose 
father had been killed by the Tartars) was delegated by the principal people to 
solicit the protection of the Chinese against these depredators, which was ac- 
cordingly granted to him ; but some time afterwards, his house, with himself 
and family, being precipitated by an earthquake into the plain, the Chinese 
availed themselves of his death to seize the country, which was afterwards, as 
above related, bestowed, but probably only in name, on the Grand Or Dalai 
Lama of Lassa. The country, as may be supposed, is at present but thinly in- 



TIBET. 


DEB A.] 


595 


habited and little cultivated. The Uniyas, or inhabitants of Undes f procure their 
grain from the Jowaries, the Marchas, and other traders, through the passes as 
far as Baschar, and they are said to eat but little animal food . — ( Moor croft, 8$c.) 

Deb a ( Or Dkapa ). — A town in theUndes country, of which it may be reckoned 
the capital. Lat. 30° 13' N. long. 80° 2' E. This place stands partly on irregu- 
lar eminences forming the side of a ravine descending steeply to the river Tiltil, 
and also in the bed of the ravine, which is surrounded by heights consisting of 
strata of indurated clay and thick beds of gravel, some of them above 300 feet in 
elevation, while others are not so much. These are broken into various shaped 
masses by the snow torrents, which fall down their sides. Some resemble large 
buttresses with pointed tops ; others, although of great height, are flat on the 
summit. In the sides of these heights are many excavations, some of which 
have wooden doors, while others are merely open caverns. The broken ground 
in the neighbourhood of Deba exhibits many extraordinary appearances, the 
melting snow having cut the clay of which they are composed into channels, 
leaving distinct elevated ridges fashioned by accident into a great diversity of 
figures, representing castles, fortifications, houses, and various indescribable 
masses. It has recently been ascertained that Deba is tenanted throughout the 
year, the climate being by no means so severe as the great elevation (14,924 
feet) of the valley of Sutuleje the above the level of the sea would have indicated. 
Fine crops of awa (grain having the appearance of barley, but which Dr. Wallich 
considers to be a species of wheat,) grow in the neighbourhood. The meal it 
yields is very fine, and the grain being of so hardy a nature, might prove an 
acquisition to Britain and the north of Europe. 

The houses here are of stone, two stories high, whitewashed on the outside 
below, and surrounded with a band of red and French grey above, with terraced 
roofs encompassed by a parapet. The inside is very filthy, and the floors of the 
little enclosures covered with bones of sheep and goats, mixed with tufts of 
wool ; but the tops of the walls are decorated with stripes of different coloured 
rags. The town is subdivided into three parts ; 1st, a college, the residence of 
the Lama. and his gylums or monks; 2d, a nunnery; and 3dly, the houses of 
the vizier, deba, and laity in general. In the centre of a semicircle formed by 
the houses, are tombs and temples of various Lamas, having smaller ones at- 
tached to them. These are circular at their base, diminishing gradually by 
smaller circle^, and terminating in a point, covered with plates of copper, like 
umbrellas, and gilt. In the centre above these stands the temple of Narayan 
(Vishnu), surrounded by horns, and painted of a red colour. This is an irregular 
building with one door, surmounted by a square small building, covered with 
gilt brass, and ornamented with grotesque figures. The parapet of this edifice 

4 o 2 



TIBET. 


596 


[deba. 


is adorned with masses of black hair, formed apparently of the tail of the 
Chow*y cow reversed, plaited, and intermixed with pieces of some shining sub- 
stance, with tridents on their tops. 

.Within the porch of the temple, the side walls are painted with bold sketches 
of a deity, with large staring eyes in his head, which is enveloped in a kind of 
glory. On entering the body of the temple there is an apartment about 30 feet 
square, lighted from the door and from two large silver lamps attached to 
pedestals of the same metal, about 18 inches high, placed upon a low japanned 
stool in the middle of the floor. At the upper end of the temple and immedi- 
ately fronting the door, is a gilt copper figure of Narayan, in the European sit- 
ting position, about 20 feet high. The hands are lifted up, and,' with the\feet, 
are the only parts exposed, the rest of the figure being covered with narrow 
robes of silk. On his right hand is a small figure of Lakshmi (the goddess of 
plenty and wife of Vishnu), and on the left that of a Lama, also of gilt copper, 
in his canonicals. A flight of small benches descends from the feet of the figures 
last mentioned, on which are arranged in rows a very numerous assemblage of 
Hindoo deities, all of brass, tolerably well proportioned, and with a consider- 
able variety of countenance. On an open range of shelves are many effigies of 
deceased Lamas carved in wood, attended by their mothers and the principal 
persons of their household. On the floor in the space fronting the door is a low 
table, on which are arranged several rows of brass, silver, and gilt or golden 
bowls, containing water for the use of the deity ; and masks, imitating the heads 
of stags, tigers, bears, and demons, to be worn at the celebration of great festi- 
vals, are ranged on shelves and on wooden frames. In the great temple there 
are some prodigiously large brass and copper trumpets, made of tubes which 
shut in and draw out like European speaking trumpets; and there are also 
drums of great size set in frames and beaten on the sides. 

Such is the apparatus of superstition. With regard to secular matters, the 
deba, vizier, and immediate officers of government, are the chief persons here, 
and are apparently in tolerable circumstances, which is also the case with the 
goatherds ; but the rest of the inhabitants are covered with rags, and sunk in 
the extremest poverty. The gylums, or monks, who lead a life of celibacy, 
seem a dirty, greasy, good-humoured set of people, who, besides their super- 
stitious performances, carry on a considerable traffic in sheeps wool and salt, 
which they exchange for wheat and barley. The rules of the nunnery are de- 
scribed as severe, and the paraphernalia of the temple greatly resembles that of 
the Roman Catholic church. 

In the rock where the temple stands are granaries said to contain many thou- 
sand maunds of rice, the inhabitants being dependant for their aftnual supply of 



KIENLUNG.] TIBET, 597 

that grain and of bhrley on the Marchas of Niti and Jowaur. Every year, when 
the pass of Niti becomes practicable, an envoy on the part of the Gurwal go- 
vernment proceeds to Deba with a present, consisting of a few yards of cloth, in 
return for which he receives from the vizier of Deba, as an offering to the govern- 
ment of Gurwal, one phatang of gold. This custom originated when Deba and 
the adjacent country were conquered by Futteh Sah, a Raja of Gurwal, who 
lived in the reign, of Aurengzebe. This chief having marched an army through 
the Niti pass exacted an annual tribute from the Raja of Deba, consisting of a 
gold taullia weighing about five pounds, and the cast of an image also formed of 
gold ; which tribute oontinued to be paid until the conquest of Gurwal (or Se- 
rinagur) by the Gorkhas, At present, the only remains of this connexion are 
the honorary dress or Quota carried by a native envoy to the vizier of Deba, and 
the phatang of gold Which he receiver jn return. After the envoy has returned 
from his embassy, the communication with Tartary is considered to be open, 
and the Bhooteas along the southern face of Himalaya may then cross the 
mountains with their merchandize . — ( Moor croft, Webb, Trail, §c. 

Dumpo. — T his town is built on a steep eminence, forming part of a ridge 
stretching from the side of a mountain and sloping down to a river, above the 
bed of which it rises 300 feet. Lat. 31° 6' N. long. 80° 15' E. Some ruined 
buildings on another eminence are separated from the town by a deep glen, the 
banks of which cut into narrow steps are cultivated in the warm season with 
awajou, and watered from above. This small tract of verdure makes a striking 
appearance amidst bare rocks and brown plains, and is said to yield, when pro- 
perly irrigated, an abundant crop. 

On the banks of the Sutuleje, between Kienlung and Dumpo, are many larva 
of the kind of locust which breeds in the stony plains of Tartary, marked on- 
the body with a yellow ring on a black ground, and having a large horn in the 
tail. Two other species of locusts also breed in this vicinity ; one with purple 
wings, which by clapping the horny cases together makes a cracking noise as 
it flies ; the other is twice as large, the body and wings of a yellow colour, 
spotted with dots a little darker. — ( Moorcroft, 8$c.) 

Kienlung (or Chin-lung ). — This place is situated on the north bank of the 
Sutuleje, 22 miles west from Lake Rawan’s Hrad. Lat. 31° 6' N. long. 80° 32' E, 
The town consists of about 100 small houses built of unburned bricks, painted 
red and grey* It stands on the summit of a cluster of pillars of indurated 
clay, in the face of high banks of the same material, rising above the town at 
least 100 feet, while the town is in a retiring angle at least double that height 
above the level of the river. This kind of position is preferred by the Uniyas 
for their winter retirements, as from the conical shape of the pinnacles on which 



598 TIBET. [oortope. 

the houses rest, the snow slips easily into the valley below, while the height of , 
the rocks behind preserves them from the violence of the winds which sweep 
the tops of the hills. The elevated site of the town above the plain, enables the 
inhabitants to escape the blasts, which frequently rush with inconceivable fury 
along the course of the river. 

The country from Tirtapuri to Kienlung exhibits frequent proofs of the pre- 
sence of minerals. Many springs of hot water impregnated with mineral and 
saline substances issue from the rocks, as also some calcareous matter, but the 
last is not so abundant as a*t Tirtapuri. Opposite to Kienlung is a cavern, from 
the roof of which water drops, highly charged with sulphuric acid. This cave 
is about 12 feet in breadth, five feet high at the mouth, and 14 in length inwards. 
The floor consists of calcareous projections mixed with sulphur, and also ptyols 
of transparent water four feet deep, highly charged with sulphur. Hot sulphurous 
vapours issue through numerous crevices in the floor, and the general heat is 
sufficient to cause a copious perspiration ; but the breathing is not impeded 
unless the visitor lower his head to within a few feet of the ground, when a 
suffocatirig sensation commences. The sides of this cavern consist of calcareous 
matter and flour of sulphur, and the proportion of brimstone to the other ingre- 
dient is said to be twb to one. Coal has not yet been discovered by the natives, 
and the only fuel is furze, which can be procured in very small quantities. If fuel 
were plentiful, many tons of sulphur might be obtained from this cavern, and the 
surrounding calcareous rock, which even when of a white colour contains 
sulphur. Immediately in front of the mouth of this cavern is a mound of 
calcareous stone, through the chinks of which spout many jets of hot water 
perfectly transparent, and of a smell and taste similar to the Harrowgate water. 
The vast walls and masses of rock formed in this vicinity by the action of the? e 
hot springs indicate a great antiquity. — ( Moorqroft, 8p.) 

Gortope (Ghertop ). — This place rather deserves the name of an assemblage 
of tents than that of a town. Lat. 31° 34 N. long. 80° 25' E. The tents ale 
made of blankets, surrounded by hair ropes fixed on stakes, and over the whole 
are various coloured shreds of silk and cloth as flags. They are usually sur- 
rounded by a litter of bones, horns, and tufts of wool. The chief persons here, 
as in the other towns of Tibet, are the Deba and Vizier, who wear long tails of 
three plaits. The plains in the vicinity are covered with large flocks of sheep, 
goats, and yaks, and there are also a few horses. The mountains on each side 
of this plain or valley dip very much to the north-west. 

According to the information collected by Mr. Moorcroft, the river which rises 
near to Dharchan, or Gangari, runs past Gortope, then dose to Lahdack, and at 
last falls into the main stream of the Indus, of which it appears to be the most 



LAHDACK.] TIBET. 699 

remote source. Lahdack was reported to be ten days? journey from Gortope,' 
the Deba of which informed Mr. Moorcroft that caravans of 5* and 600 people 
came on horseback to the Gortope fair, but he did not say from whence. The 
Tartars here call Europeans Felings, and appeared to havo an equal aversion to 
them and the Gorkhas. Guinnak, the capital of Chinese Tartary, is said to be 
20 days* journey from hence, to the north-east. — ( Moorcroft , §c.) 

Lahdack (or Little Tibet ), — This mountainous province, to the south-wes* 
confines on Cashmere, from whence it extends south-easterly along the Hima- 
laya ridge, but all its other boundaries are wholly undefined, the interior never 
having been explored by any European. According to native reports, five davs 
journey north-east from Cashmere, an ascent commences, which is very great far 
three or four days, after which it is rather less, on to Lahdack. The ascent con- 
tinues even on to the great ridge, which separates Tibet from Yarkund, as appeat 
by the course of the stream which comes from that point. This ridge answers? 
to the Pamer range of hills, and the road from Lahdack leads along it for 12 
days’ journey on the road to Yarkund, and is crossed 15 days’ journey from 
Lahdack, at which point the stream above mentioned is left, and it has probably 
a distant source. The province in this direction is very rugged and elevated, 
and probably declines from its southern and most elevated boundary both to the 
north and west. Such is the very scanty information as yet collected regarding 
the northern portion of this province ; regarding the southern, which is bounded 
by the Himalaya, our knowledge is still more defective, although there is reason 
to believe that it is intersected by the main stream of the Indus, flowing from the 
S. E. until it reaches the town of Lahdack, and also by another contributary 
stream which falls into that river at Draus. 

Lahdack produces barley and other coarse grains, but it is said does not yield 
wheat or rice sufficient for its own consumption ; they are consequently articles of 
import from the south. The town of Lahdack is the chief mart of trade between 
Cashmere and Lassa, and its Raja the principal merchant, as he entirely mono- 
polizes the commerce, and does not permit the Cashmerians to trade directly 
with the Undes for shawl wool. This prince (according to the report of his 
agent at Gortope to Mr. Moorcroft) purchases shawl wool annually in that 
quarter to the amount of from two to three lacks of rupees, which he after- 
Wards resells to the Cashmerians and merchants from Amritsir. To eastern 
Tibet, Lahdack exports (or rather is the transit for) apricots, kismisses, raisins, 
currants, dates, almonds, and saffron. The trade is entirely managed by the 
inhabitants of Tibet, who find a direct road from Gortope to Lahdack. For- 
merly one of the most valuable articles sent from Hindostan to Lahdack was an 
assortment of coral, which, although bought very dear at Benares and Delhi, 



TIBET. 


600 


[lahdack river. 


was resold throughout to a great profit, being an article singularly prized by all 
semi-barbarous nations, but about the year 1810, the trade declined, owing to 
the quantity imported from Russia by the way of Yarkund. 

We are so little acquainted with the interior of Lahdack, that it has not yet 
been accurately ascertained what religion is professed by the inhabitants ; but 
from the geographical position, and other circumstances, it is probable they 
follow the doctrines of the Lamas. The father of Teshoo Lama, who reigned in 
1774, was a Tibetian, and his mother a near relation to the Raja of Lahdack? 
and from her he had learned the Hindostany language, which he could sjjeak 
when visited by Mr. Bogle, the ambassador dispatched to Teshoo Loombool by 
Mr. Hastings. The commercial intercourse between Cashmere and Lahdack has 
been frequently interrupted by wars, and not many years ago the latter was in- 
vaded and ravaged by the Chinese Tartars. By the interference of the Chinee 
emperor, these incursions have been of late restrained, since which period a 
good understanding has subsisted between the Lahdackies and the Chinese 
functionaries stationed at Gortope. In 1816, the Chinese empire extended five 
days’ journey west of Gurdon, but did not then include Lahdack, although the 
Chinese authorities asserted that it paid a small tribute to the viceroy of Lassa.— 
( Moor croft, Colebrooke, Webb , Macartney , Bogle , §c.) 

Lahdack ( Latakh ).— According to native authorities, the town of Lahdack is 
25 days’ journey from Amritsir ; 30 from Yarkund, which last is 15 from Bok- 
hara, making a distance of 75 days, which is much shorter than the road to 
Bokhara from Hindostan by the way of Cabul. According to the best maps it 
is situated in lat. 35° 35' N. long. 78° 3' E. 200 miles N. E. from the city of 
Cashmere ; but it is very desirable that the exact position of this town should 
be scientifically ascertained, as it would establish the relative distance of many 
other places, and tend greatly tp illustrate the geography of Southern Tartary. 
At present it is only known from the reports of the natives as the chief mart 
between Cashmere, and the shawl goat country to the east, and said to contain 
500 houses. A silver coin is struck here from bars of silver imported from 
China, which is in general circulation throughout the whole of Western Tibet. 
It ought, as its name imports, to weigh three mashas, or the fourth part of a ru- 
pee, but the existing currency is very much debased . — ( Moor croft, fyc. 8$c.) 

Lahdack River. — At a point above the town of Draus, in Little Tibet, the 
main stream of the Indus is met by a smaller river, which has been traced from 
Rodauk in Tibet, and flowing past Lahdack the capital of Little Tibet, is then 
named the Lahdack river. Near to Lahdack it is joined by another stream from 
the N. W. which Lieutenant Macartney conjectures to issue from the lake of 
Surikol. It was formerly surmised that the Lahdack river was one of tke prin- 



bra us,] TIBET. 60 1 

cipal branches of the Ganges, but this conjecture is now ascertained co be 
without foundation. Lieutenant Macartney having established its junction with 
the Indus near Draus. But the subject as yet remains in great obscurity. — 
( Macartney, <§*c. 8$c.) 

Rodauk. — A town in Tibet, past which the Lahdack river flows, it having 
been traced from Draus, where it joins the Indus to this place. According to 
native information, the road from hence to Lahdack is along the course of the 
Lahdack river, the journey occupying 25 days. The best shawl wool is car- 
ried from hence to Lahdack, mostly on sheep on account of the hilliness of the 
country. — (Elpkinstone, Macartney , 8$c.) 

Draus. — A town in Little Tibet, situated near the junction of two branches of 
the Indus. Lat. 35° 30' N. long. 76° E. 100 miles N. E. from the city of Cash- 
mere. By the natives it is asserted that two great streams, contributary to the 
Indus, join at or near the town of Draus, eight days’ journey for a caravan 
north-east of Cashmere. The main stream of the Indus at this point is said to 
come from the north-east. — ( Elpkinstone , Macartney , S$c.) 



NORTHERN HINDOSTAN. 


This alpine country commences on the west at the Sutuleje river, about the 77t&k 
degree of east longitude, from whence it stretches in the form of a waving paralV 
lelogram slanting to the south, until it reaches the Teesta river, in long. 88° 30^ 
E. beyond which, among the mountains, the Lama doctrines prevail. In length 
it may be estimated at 600 miles by 85 the average breadth. Within these limits 
Northern Hindostan may be considered as separated from Tibet, or Southern Tar- 
tary, by the Himalaya mountains, and on the south from the Jfogul provinces of 
Hindostan Proper by the line where the lower ranges of hills press on the vast 
Gangetic plain ; but a belt of flat country about 20 miles in width having always 
been left in the possession of the hill chiefs, it will also be described along with 
the hilly portion of their dominions. The principal modem territorial and po- 
litical subdivisions which the above geographical space at present exhibits, are 
noticed below, and under each head, respectively, further particulars will' be 
found ; but the attention of the reader is more especially directed to the general 
description of the Nepaulese dominions, as being in reality applicable to the 
whole of Northern Hindostan, of which they still occupy two-thirds. 

1. Country between the Sutuleje and Jumna. 5. Painkhandi. 

2. Gurwal or Serinagur. 6. Bhutant. 

3. The Sources of the Ganges. 7. The Nepaulese dominions. 

4. Kumaon. 8. The Sikkim Baja’s territories. 

The inhabitants of this hilly region, both before and after their conversion to 

the Brahminical tenets, maintained but little intercourse with their southern ' 
neighbours, and are probably the only Hindoo people who have never been dis- 
turbed, far less subdued, by any Mahommedan conqueror. Towards the con- 
clusion of the 18th, and in the commencement of the 19th century, they fell 
wholly under the yoke of the Gorkhas, who observing the most jealous system 
of exclusion ; until times quite recent, their interior condition remained a mere 
matter of conjecture, but war, the great promoter of geography, having removed 
"the veil, we are now nearly as well acquainted with their local cinmnutauces as . 
with those of many of the old provinces. The grand geological feature of this 



hiaialata.] NORTHERN HINDOSTAN. 603 

quarter is a mountainous chain bounding it to the north along its whole extent, 
and described under the next head. 

THE HIMALAYA MOUNTAINS. 

West of the Indus this stupendous range of mountains is known to the 
Afghans by the name of Hindoo Cosh, while to the east of that river it has the 
more appropriate appellation of Himalaya (the abode of snow), but in reality 
the chain is the same, and can scarcely be said to be interrupted by the slender 
stream of the Indus, about latitude 35° N. From the north-east point of Cash- 
mere it has a south-easterly course, extending along the sources of all the Pun- 
jab rivers (except the Sutuleje), where it separates the hilly portion of the Lahore 
province from what, in modem times, for want of a better designation, is named 
Little Tibet. Still pursuing the same direction, it crosses the heads of the 
Ganges and Jumna, forcing their currents to the south ; but further east the 
chain is less continuous, as there is reason to believe it is penetrated by several 
rivers, such as the Gunduck, the Arun, the Cosi, the Teesta, and the Brahma- 
putra. Beyond the eastern limits of Bootan, the chain is lost in an unexplored 
country, but it probably extends to the Chinese sea, along the northern frontier 
of the provinces of Quangsi and Quantong, declining gradually as it advances 
to the east. So long as it is connected with Hindostan, the height of Himalaya 
is enormous, and it may be there considered as the buttress or supporting-wall 
to the table land of Tibet, into which the descent is little in comparison with 
the altitude of the southern faces. 

The extreme height of the highest pinnacle has not yet been ascertained with 
such precision as to place the fact beyond a doubt; but in 1816, Mr. Colebrooke 
considered the evidence then collected, sufficient to authorize an unreserved 
delaration of the opinion, that Himalaya is the loftiest range of Alpine moun- 
tains that has yet been noticed, its most elevated peaks greatly exceeding the 
highest of the Andes. Among the loftiest is one distinguished by the name of 
Dhawala~giri, or the White Mountain, situated, as is understood, near the source 
of the Gunduck river. From a variety of calculations, it may be safely pro- 
nounced that the elevation of this mountain exceeds 26,862 feet above the level 
Of the sea. The following numbers are stated as differences of elevation, which 
may be received as near approaches to a correct determination of the height, 

■ via.— 

Dhawalagiri (before mentioned) above the level of the sea . 26,862 feet. 

Jtamo utri ditto .... 25,500 

*A mountain supposed to be Dhaibun, above Catmandoo 20,140 

feet j ditto above the level of the sea ...... 24,768 

4 h 2 



NORTHERN HINDOSTAN. 


604 


IjaiiAAkArA, 


A mountain not named, observed from Catmandoo, and situated 
in the direction of Gala Bhairava, 20,005 feet above the 
valley of Nepaul, ditto above the level of the sea . . 24,625 feet. 
Another near to it, 18,062 feet above the Nepaul valley, and 

above the level of the sea 23,262 

A third in its vicinity 18,452 feet above ditto ditto , 23,052 
A peak named St. George was estimated by Captain Hodgson, 

at ditto 22,240 

Such, according to the most accurate observations that have hitherto been 
made, are the loftiest pinnacles of Himalaya ; the heights noted below are founcj 
in the southern face of the range, where, it appears from recent inquiries, that, 
the inferior limit of congelation in this quarter extends to 13,500 feet above then 
level of the sea, in the parallel of 30° 30' N. — differing from theoretical conclu- 
sions, the result of certain experiments, about 2000 feet. 

Barometrical height of places in the Bhootea purgunnah of Jowahir, as com- 
puted from observations made in June 1817 : — 

Height above Calcutta . Height above Calcutta . 

Beelakat village . . 10,653 feet. Mihim .... 11,405 feet. 

Murtolee .... 11,327 Ditto temple . . 11,682 

Mapau .... 11,082 Birjoo village . 11,314 

Pauchoo .... 11,284 Boorphoo . . . 10,836 

When visited by Captain Webb in 1817, he found extensive fields of a species 
of barley and buck wheat, between the village of Milum and the temple, and 
from a height at least 1500 feet above the spot last mentioned, he procured 
plants of the jatamansi or spikenard. The road from Milum to Tartary leads 
along the banks of a mountain stream, and is a continued ascent of four days’ 
journey for laden sheep and goats. This route opens in July, at which time the 
Bhooteas find pasture for their flocks, even at the fourth halting place, which, 
allowing only 500 feet ascent for each day, will carry the limit of vegetation to 
13,500 feet. On the 21st of June, 1817, Captain Webb’s camp was 11,630 feet, 
above Calcutta, on a clear spot, surrounded by rich forests of oak, pine, and 
rhododendra, the surface covered with rank vegetation as high up as the knee ; 
very extensive strawberry beds were in full flower, and numerous currant btishes 
in blossom. On the 22d of June, on the summit of Pilgointa Churhai, 12,642 
feet above Calcutta, there was no snow to be seen in the vicinity. The soil col- 
lected over the rock was a fat black mould, covered with strawberry plants (not 
then in flower), dandelions, butter cups, and a profusion of small flowers, and 
500 feet lower down was a forest of birch, Alpine rhododendron, and Raga 
pine. In 1818, the Niti Ghaut, or pass, was explored by the same entorprizing 



. Himalaya.] ' NORTHERN HINDOSTAtf. 605 

officer, when still greater discrepancies with the calculations of theory resulted. 
By a mean of four barometers* which he had managed to carry thus far unin- 
jured, compared with corresponding observations made at Dumdum and Cal- 
cutta by Colonel Hardwicke and Mr, Colvin, Captain Webb found the crest of 
the Niti Ghaut to be 16,814 feet above the level of the sea, and he estimated the 
lowest part of the valley of the Sutuleje (which he was not permitted by the 
Chinese functionaries to visit) at 14,924 feet. When seen by Captain Webb, no 
snow remained on the Ghaut, or in the neighbourhood, and many quadrupeds 
pastured on the grassy banks of the Sutuleje. 

The next portion of the Himalaya of which we have information from Euro- 
pean travellers, is that situated between Gangoutri and the chasm where the 
Sutuleje river forces it way through the mountains, flowing to the south-west. 
In some parts of these elevated regions the snow melts in summer, while in 
others the cold is so intense as to split and detach large masses of the rock, 
which tumble down with much uproar. This process appears in such constant 
activity, that it must ultimately affect the altitude of the peaks. The rock is 
granite of various hues with a great mixture of white quartz, both in veins and 
nodules. When crossed near to the Sutuleje in June, 1816, the snow still lay 
6000 feet (by estimation) above the lower line of congelation, and vast beds of 
a hard surface and steep ascent were passed over. The descent from the south 
side of the Himalaya ridge is into the Swarra of Bussaher. Among the moun- 
tains there are villages which are under snow one half of the year, but in June 
the climate resembled that of spring in England. These villages stand 6000 
feet above the bed of the Sutuleje, on the banks of which the thermometer in 
a tent, stood at 108°, yet three days’ climbing brings the traveller beyond the 
line of perpetual congelation. 

On the north side of the Himalaya chain, as seen from the low country, a 
great and steep mass of rock rises on both sides of the Sutuleje to the height of. 
above 5000 feet. Still higher up is a belt of land susceptible of cultivation, on 
which' are situated the villages of Kunaur, and although the soil is very rocky and 
poor, coarse grains, apples, pears, raspberries, apricots, and other wild fruits, are 
produced. Above this is a forest belt of gigantic pines, many of which are as- 
serted to be 24 feet in circumference, and more than 180 in height. These noble 
trees are also found on the north side of the Chour, and other high mountains, 
where the snow lies most part of the year. Beyond the forest belt (which also 
eoutaias oak and other large timber), still ascending, are steep grassy knolls, 
bare of timber, but presenting laurel and other bushes. The soil here collected 
among the rocks is black and spungy, but in May and June, and during the 
rains, it is covered with every variety of wild European spring flowers; such as 



606 NORTHERN HINDOSTAN. [Himalaya. 

crocusses, cowslips, and batter caps. Throughout this elevated region, high 
winds and fogs are troublesome, and & difficulty of respiration is experienced 
with a sensation of fullness in the head. Immediately from these grassy and’ 
flowery heights rise the steep precipices of the summit, on which the snow 
fixes wherever it can find a resting place, but in June much of the rock is dis- 
closed. No shells or volcanic matter are to be seen. 

The third portion of Himalaya that has been crossed by European travellers, 
is situated 700 miles to the east of that last described, in Bootan, where it was 
ascended by Captain Turner in 1783, when sent by Mr. Hastings on an embassy 
to the Teshoo Lama. That officer had the advantage of penetrating a long way 
over the great- Tartarian plateau, into which the descent from the summit of\ 
Himalaya appears to be inconsiderable when compared with that presented by ' 
its southern face. In the latter all the passes throughout the whole extent of 
the Himalaya chain as yet explored, are formed by the direction of rivers which 
do not appear to arise from any remarkable ridge of mountains, but spring 
from detached eminences on the table land of Tibet, and pass through interrup- 
tions or chasms of the Himalaya. From the north-western side of these moun- 
tains arise streams tributary to the Indus, and in all probability the Indus itself ; 
those flowing from the north-eastern side, in all likelihood, contribute to increase 
the volume of the Brahmaputra, which mysterious stream probably originates*! 
no remote distance from the sources of the Indus, the Sutuleje, and the Jumna, 
The Himalaya chain, in different parts of its immense extent, receives various 
names, such as Himadri, Himavat, Himachul, and Himalichul, the whole in 
signification having a reference to snow and cold. In the Hindoo pantheon, 
Himalaya is deified, and described as the father of the Ganges, and of her sister 
Ooma, the spouse of Siva, the destroying power. — (Colebrooke , Webb, Fublio 
Journals, F. Buchanan, %c. fyc. 8$c.) 



THE COUNTRY BETWEEN THE SUTCLEJE 

AND JUMNA. 


Untu the last Gorkha war this remote tract of country was wholly unexplored, 
and even the names of the different petty states a matter of conjecture, but since 
that eyent its interior condition, in consequence of the exertions of the officers 
depflted to arrange its political settlement, has become better ascertained than 
that of mfmy of the more southern provinces. To the north it is separated from 
what has been called Little Tibet by the Himalaya mountains ; on the south it 
adjoins the province of Delhi ; to the east it is bounded in its whole extent by 
the coprse of the river Jumna; and on the west by that of the Sutuleje, so that 
its limits have the advantage of being singularly well defined. In length it may 
be estimated at 90 miles, by 60 the average breadth, equal to an area of 5400 
square miles. The political divisions of this territory before its conquest by the 
Gorkhas, and to which indeed, by the restoration of the exiled chiefs, it has 
nearly returned, were the following four considerable principalities, viz.— 

1. Cahlore. 2. Hindoor. 3. Sirmore. 4. Bussaher. 

Secondly.— Twelve petty state’s, called the Barra Thakooria, or the Twelve 
Lordships, viz.— 


1. Keonthul. 

4. Kothaur. 

7. Mahlogh. 

10. Koonkhaur. 

2. Bughaut. 

5. Koomharsain. 

8. Dhamee. 

11. Mungul. 

3. Baghul. 

6. Bhujee. 

9. Keearee. 

12. Kotee. 

Thirdly. — Fourteen petty chiefships, viz. 

— 

1. Joobul. 

5. Kurungtoo. 

9. Keoond. 

13. Burrowlee. 

2. Koteghur. 

6. Detailoo. 

10. Ootrsy. 

14. Durkotee. 

3. Bulsun. 

7. Theoka. 

11. Suranee. 


4, Kunaitoo. 

8. Poondur. 

12, Sangree. 



It is a sin gular circ umstanc e ip the history of these countries, that while the 
commo n people, as far as their histories and traditions extend, appear to have 
been *U aboriginal, their rulers are, with few exceptions, of foreign extraction, 
being sprang from ancestors who had emigrated from the eastward and south* 



THE SUTULEJE 


608 

ward (mostly in performance of pilgrimage to Jowalla Mookhee, a place of great 
sanctity in the Kangra district, province of Lahore), and had found the natives 
of the hills in such a state of ignorance and barbarism, as had at once invited 
and facilitated their subjugation. Of these circumstances the emigrants from 
the south appear to have availed themselves, and it was in this manner that the 
common ancestor of the Rajas of Cahlore and Hindoor, a Rajpoot of Chundalee 
in Bundelcund, named Beerchund, in A. D. i310, founded the principality of 
which Belaspoor is the capital ; an emigrant from the eastward named Kethoo 
Saiee, that of Keonthul ; and the soi-disant descendants of a king of Delhi, or 
Indraprest, after various vicissitudes of fortune, became lords of Bhujee. At an 
early period prior to A. D. 816, this country appears to have possessed as many 
independent states as it contained villages ; between that date and 1310, the primr 
cipalities of Cahlore, Hindoor, and most of the Barra Thakooria or Twelve Lord* 
ships, were founded by emigrants from the south. The intervening time until the 
Gorkha invasion in 6803, was occupied by intestine warfare, which exasperated 
and disunifedthe inhabitants, and paved the way for a foreign yoke. All that is 
sand prior to this of the Court of Delhi, or Governor of Sirhind, means only that 
some one or other of the hill Rajas had sent an offering, and requested permission , 
to chastize the emperor’s rebellious subjects in the hills, to reduce them to obedi- 
ence, and to enforce the payment of the long arrears due to the royal treasury ; 
but notwithstanding the humble nature of the petition, it was perfectly under- 
stood by both parties that it was only granting authority to do that which the 
chieftain soliciting it had resolved to do at any rate, or more probably had al- 
ready done. The name of the emperor was used, but the sums extorted were 
never remitted to Delhi, or even to the subordinate officers of the imperial court. 
Adeena Beg Khan, the soubahdar of Lahore, appears to have been the only im- 
perial commander who even entered the hills between the Sutuleje and Tonse, 
and his stay there was but of very short duration. 

In February, 1803, Raja Runn Bahadur of Nepaul detached Ummer Singh 
Thappa with a force of -8000 men, for the reduction of Gurwal, the Raja of 
which, Purdeomun Sah, fled precipitately from Serinagur, its capital, on the news 
of his advance. In October, Ummer Singh advanced to Deyrah Boon, where 
he defeated Purdeomun Sah, who fled to the plains ; but in January, 1804, 
having obtained troops, he returned, fought a battle, was again defeated, and at 
last slain ; while his brother, Partun Sah, having been taken prisoner, wtta eeai 
to Nepaul, where in 1815 he still remained in confinement. In May, 1304, 
Ummer Singh’s support was solicited by Raja Kurrum Perkaush, of Sinnere, 
a worthless tyrant, then reduced to great extremities by the rtbdiion of his sub- 
jects, and the invasion of his country by Raja Ram Surren, of Hindoor. The 



AND JUMNA. 


609 

Gorkha commander was at first unsuccessful, but being likewise entreated by the 
Baja of Cahlore, then also suffering from a Hindoor invasion, he, in October, 
1804, crossed the Jumna, defeated the Hindoories, and might then have com* 
pleted the conquest, had he not unwisely deviated from the line of sound policy 
by inarching to attack the distant fortress of Kangra. On his arrival at Barrahutee, 
he was met by the troops of Sunsarchund, the Raja of Kangra, when the latter 
were defeated, and their general slain. Proceeding on, he reached Joalla 
Mookee, where intelligence was received of the demise of Raja Run Bahadur, 
at Catmandoo, in mourning for which event twelve valuable days were lost. At 
this place he was met by the Rajas of Noorpoor, Chumba, Sookhait, Kattlehur, 
and Jessowal, each of whom furnished the Gorkhas with a body of auxiliaries, 
and thus reinforced, he proceeded against Kangra, which he at length reached in 
July, 1806, and commenced a blockade, which proved tedious, and terminated 
disastrously. He continued the siege, however, with singular perseverance, 
until June, 1809, when Runjeet Singh, the Seik Raja of Lahore, arrived at 
Kangra with a large army, to the assistance of the Raja, after which, for the 
ensuing three months, constant engagements took place between the troops of 
the contending parties. In the mean time the half-subjugated chiefs between 
the Sutuleje and Jumna, whom Ummer Singh had left behind, combined to reject 
liis domination, but petty jealousies and hereditary antipathies, intervened to 
dissolve the confederacy, and the Gorkha power was saved from overthrow by 
circumstances similar to those which had led to its first establishment. This 
alarming state of affairs induced him in August, 1809, to conclude a convention, 
by the conditions of which he engaged never to recross to the east of the Sutu- 
leje, provided he was allowed to return unmolested with his troops, military 
stores, and baggage. 

Having obtained such very favourable terms he marched to the south-eastward, 
and arrived at Belaspoor in September of the same year. Here he inflicted the 
most unrelenting vengeance on all the refractory chiefs, killing, imprisoning, and 
expelling their persons, and demolishing their forts, after which he proceeded to 
subdue other petty chiefs to the northward, whose very names had before been 
unknown to the Gorkhas. To avert this storm, the Thakours (lords) of Koteghur, 
Bulsun, Thaywog, and other petty states, solicited the aid of the Raja of Bus- 
saher, who, foreseeing that he must ultimately be involved in their fate, detached 
an army of 10,000 men under his viziers to their assistance, but without avail, 
for they were attacked and repeatedly defeated by the Gorkhas. Unfortunately, 
about this time Oogur Singh, Raja of Bussaher died, when Un^mer Singh, taking 
advantage of the minority of his son Mahindra Singh, marched with a large force, 
and took possession of Rampoor his capital; the Bussaher viziers with the infant 
Raja retreated further north, where, probably owing to the inaccessible nature of 



610 THE SUTULEJE 

the country, he could not follow them. He in consequence remained at Ram* 
poor, sending out detachments and subduing the adjacent petty states, until 
1312, when finding these possessions too remote, he agreed to leave the young 
Raja all the country north of the Surrain mountains, and beyond the Sutuleje, 
for the payment of 12,000 rupees per annum. In this manner the conquest by 
the Gorkhas of the country between the Sutuleje and Jumna was completed, 
and the whole history of its process exhibits a most singular want, on the part of 
its inhabitants, of energy, courage, or even common activity, and of every other 
quality that are generally the characteristics of a highland people. < 

Ummer Sigh remained in Rampoor and its neighbourhood until 1813, when 
he retired to Aiki, from which period until the invasion of these hills by the\ 
army under the command of Major General Ochterlony, no event of importance \ 
occurred. At this time the British government was remarkably ill-informed 
respecting the internal condition of the country, physical as well as political, 
the intelligence derived from a great variety of native sources, only agreeing in 
one particular, which was, that it was in most places impassable for any four- 
footed animal, except the goonth or hill horse, and that even these could not 
carry burdens, a labour only to be performed by men. It appeared, however, 
on further inquiry, that guns of a small calibre were used by the hill chieftains, 
in their own petty warfare, and that the Gorkhas had brought 3-pounders, gene- 
rally slung on bamboos and carried by men, but at other times dragged along 
the ground by main force, while their carriages were transported peacemeal. In 
addition to these circumstances General Ochterlony discovered, that an elephant 
had been sent as part of a marriage dowry from Nahan to Bussaher, and the 
route of this enormous quadruped was traced for above 80 miles. Trivial as this 
circumstance may appear, it established the fact, that an elephant may, and acta* 
ally did proceed over hills described by the natives as inaccessible to any four- 
footed animal. Indeed, as the safety of the inhabitants of the hills' against the 
encroachments of their neighbours depended on the difficulties to he encountered* 
they always preferred taking the worst and most intricate paths, rather than by 
their use to point out easier ones. This cause, added to the oppressive list of 
custom-house duties on the southern frontier, tended to keep them in a state of 
insulated barbarism, from which indeed they have never shewn any very strong 
desire to emerge. 

In 1814, the whole extent of the hill country between the Sutuleje and Jumna 
was completely occupied by the Gorkhas, and from most of the districts, 
the former rajas, lords, or thakoors, had been driven to a dependant subsiste&ee 
on some of the low land chiefs. The total force kept up by the Gorkhas to pice* 
serve these conquests was 7000 men, of whom about 6000 might be terznedtogtt* 
lars, being armed with musquets, and clothed in imitation of the British sepoys 



AND JUMNA. , 611 

with red uniforms. These troops were again subdivided into companies, an d 
fixed either m different strong positions among the hills, or as garrisons in the 
forts of the country. It suited the Gorkha policy to erase and level a great 
many of the forts they found on their arrival, as requiring a larger body of troops 
to hold them than the country could maintain ; but on the southern and western 
frontier towards the Seik countries they dismantled none, but on the contrary 
improved and strengthened several. There is reason to believe from a variety 
of authentic documents subsequently procured, that the aggregate amount re- 
ceived by the Gorkha commander, Ummer Singh, for the whole tract, including 
his own private emoluments, never exceeded 282,000 rupees. Such was the 
existing condition, civil and political, of the country situated between the Sutu- 
leje and Jumna in 1814, when the first war between the British nation and the 
Gorkhas commenced, and lingered on for some time with but indifferent success. 
At length, in 1815, Sir David Ochterlony having assumed the command, and 
penetrated into the hills, the Gorkhas were dislodged from the fortified heights 
of Malown, on the 15th of April, and soon after Ummer Singh, their commander, 
was forced to capitulate both for himself and son. then blockaded at Jytuk. The 
result of these decisive measures, combined with the successful operations in 
Kumaon, where Almora was taken on the 25th of the same month, was the 
evacuation by the Gorkhas of the entire territory west of the Kali branch of the 
Goggra, which cession was ultimately confirmed by the final treaty of 1816. 

The British government having in this manner, after no moderate expenditure 
of blood and treasure, wrested this long agitated country from the Gorkhas, it 
proceeded to lay down a basis for its settlement, founded on the restoration of 
the exiled or subdued chiefs, in all cases in which their failure to perform the 
conditions of the proclamation published at the commencement of the war, or 
some special expediency, did not justify a departure from that principle. The 
fulfilment of the proclamation above alluded to had been so imperfectly com- 
plied with, that with almost the solitary exception of Raja Ramsurren of Hin- 
door, in whose territory Sir David Ochterlony’s operations had been carried on, 
not one of these chiefs could be deemed to have a claim to possession under the 
terms of the proclamation. The Gorkhas, in fact, had been expelled exclusively 
by the unaided efforts of the British arms, and that nation had consequently 
acquired a right to the entire disposal of the country. The general restoration 
of 'the princes, however, was still judged the most advisable settlement, and 
with certain exceptions it was determined to carry it into execution. Those 
exceptions were, the retention of Malown, Subhattoo, and one or two other 
posts* the occupation of which was necessary to give effect to the military pos- 
session and controul of the territory ; the exclusion of the Thakoors of Keonthul 
tad Bughat, whose inertness and neglect had been conspicuous during the cam- 

4 i 2 



612 


THE SUTULEJE 


paign, and the disposal of their territories with the exception of a small portion 
allotted for their maintenance ; the exclusion of Kurrum Perkaush, the exiled 
Raja of Sirmore, on account of the incurable depravity of his character, in favour 
of his son ; and finally, the separation from that principality of the pergunn&hs 
of Jotmsar and Bhawer, separated from the rest of the territory by the river 
Tonse. 

It became expedient also under existing circumstances, to exercise a more 
direct and systematic controul over the hill states, to prevent the revival of 
ancient feuds and animosities, leading to extreme disorder and confusion, which 
could only be effected by the coercion of a vigorous controul, it being impossible 
to avoid the inconvenience and embarrassment of arbitrating and settling their 
disputes, without the certainty of incurring evils of a still more serious com- \ 
plexion. It was meant, however, that this controul should be political only, and \ 
should not extend to an interference with the internal management of their 
affairs. To re-establish the ancient feudal relations, which would have greatly 
simplified the system of controul, was found impossible, without leaving the 
weaker states entirely at the mercy of those to which they were subordinate, 
since a definition of the relative rights and privileges of the parties, to be main- 
tained and enforced by the British authority, would have only altered the form 
of interference, and involved in greater perplexity the system which it was 
intended to simplify. Very great difficulty would also have been experienced in 
adjusting the claims of the several states demanding authority and asserting 
independence, and no settlement of them, whatever, would have been generally 
satisfactory. It was therefore determined, after mature deliberation, to render* 
all the states independent of each, other, with a few exceptions founded on 
special advertencies ; the whole to remain exclusively subordinate to the para- 
mount authority of the British government. Except in one or two instances all 
tribute was rejected, the conditions of their restoration being confined to the 
furnishing a stipulated number of hill porters, affording military co-operation 
when required, submitting their disputes to British arbitration, and the perform- 
ance of the ordinary duties of allegiance. The only states from which any 
sacrifices either territorial or pecuniary were demanded, were those of Sirmore, 
Bussaher, Keonthul, and Bughat. Indeed the utmost income that could have 
been demanded by the British government, consistent with its views of indul- 
gence, would have fallen very far short of the actual expenditure, even if one-fifth 
had been levied, while the trifle thus obtained, might have been misconstrued 
into a deviation from the proclamation. The latter had been publicly made 
known to the world ; but the causes which produced the apparent deviation 
would have remained concealed. With respect to the status quo of their territories, 
the period of the Gorkha invasion in 1803, was selected as in all respects the 



AND JUMNA. 


61 8 


most convenient, from being of so modem a date as to render evidence easily 
attainable, while with reference to the public declarations of the British govern- 
ment, and the avowed objects of its interference in the affairs of the hill chiefs, 
might be justly considered as precluding it from taking cognizance of claims 
originating in transactions of an antecedent date. 

The following are the lands and military posts occupied by the British govern- 
ment in the hills : 

Taken from Sirmore . 

From Keonthul . Subhattoo fort and pergunnah. 


Jounsar. 

Bhawer. 


From Bussaher 
Independent 


Raeenghur fort and pergunnah. 
Sindook. 

Poondur. 


The objections to the retaining of territory in the hills were founded on the 
unprofitable nature of the possessions, and the difficulty of governing such re- 
mote and insulated tracts, more especially in that important branch, the admi- 
nistration of justice. The most expedient plan for the purpose last mentioned 
appeared to be, to vest in the officers exercising local authority, a power ana- 
logous to that of the magistrates of cities and zillahs, and to nominate from time 
to time by special commission, a judge or judges, to hold a court for the trial of 
such persons as might be committed by the local officers, subject to the general 
controul of the Nizamut Adawlet. Under the local and peculiar circumstances of 
the countries in question, it appeared equally inexpedient and impracticable to 
extend to their inhabitants the general code of Bengal judicial regulations. It 
was hoped that the exertions of the local functionary would be able to give 
such an impulse and direction to the authority of the native chiefs, as should 
produce the effect of repressing crime, without involving the British government 
in the direct administration of criminal justice, and of the internal police. In 
the present state of society and property as yet existing in the hills, no cases 
affecting the rights of individuals are likely to occur which cannot easily be 
settled by arbitration, or by the authority of the local officers, in a manner cal- 
culated to insure the substantial ends of justice. 

Since the conquest of these countries, the attention of the British government 
has been particularly directed to the abolition of the system of compelling the 
peasantry 'to act as hill porters, a custom which has long prevailed to an extent 
productive of much public inconvenience and private distress. In this moun- 
tainous region the only mode of carriage is on men’s shoulders, and it has always 
jbeen the practice to p>ress men for this labour. During the war, the urgency of 
srifoirs admitted of no alternative, and on the same ground it was judged expe- 
dient to stipulate with the restored chiefs for the services of a certain number of 



614 


THE SUTULEJE 


begars, or hill porters, to be paid, maintained, and regularly relieved at stated , 
periods, by their respective Ranas, or chiefs. In 1816, the total number of 
these amounted to 438 in constant attendance, but with the view of diminishing 
the pressure, and as preparatory to the general abolition, government deter* 
mined on removing one battalion of Gorkhas to Kumaon, by which arrange* 
ment the demand for porters would be at once reduced one half, and eventually, 
by the introduction of mules as beasts of burthen, will probably be decreased 
still further. But in whatever manner their services are required, whether after 
the existing mode, or by requisitions from the Ranas for labourers to be paid by 
government, until some moral change takes place, compulsory it must ever.be, 
as the slothful nature of this people will always lead them to prefer indolence wad 
poverty at home, to emolument earned abroad by the sweat ofltheir brow. Neither 
is it probable that it will ever be found feasible to substitute to any considerable 
extent any other mode of carriage, bullocks and tattoos (small horses) being ill 
suited to the hills where they die immediately. The Marquis of Hastings, in hit 
anxiety to relieve these people from one essential evil of the compulsory service, 
the fraudulent withholding of their pay by the chiefs, did not hesitate to autho- 
rize the payment of a proper allowance to the hill porters, leaving the recovery 
of the amount from their chiefs to future arrangements, and when directing 
the execution of this measure, expressed his high approbation of the exertions 
of Lieutenant Ross to alleviate a system, only tolerated for a time, and from 
unavoidable necessity. 

The following schedule of the revenues of the countries situated between 
the Sutuleje and Tonse, as estimated in 1815, will shew their comparative 


importance : — 

Cahlore( Ultra Sutule J e 32,000 
tCis Sutuleje 28,000 


Hindoor < 

60,000 

i In the hills 15,015 

\ 

Sirmore 

l^ln the plains 30,000 

45,015 

80,000 

Bussaher 

. 80,000 

Keonthul 

40,000 

Bagul . 

17,957 

Baugul 

23,247 

Bhujee 

6,500 

Mahlog 

• 8,000 

Koolar 

4,500 

Koonyar 



Brought forward 367,019 

Koomharsein . , . 

. 8,000 

Dhamee 

. 4,000 

Mungul . . . .. . 

500 

Joobul 

. 19,100 

Poondur ...... 

. 5,000 

Bulsun 

. 6,100 

Koteghur .... 

. 9,000 

Burowlee . , . . 

. 1,600 

Kunaitoo .... 

. 5,000 

Dulaitoo 

. 6,000 

Kurungloo . . , 

. 3,650 

Durkatee . * . . 

. . 800 

Haugree . . . . 4 . 

. . 400 


Carried forward 367,019 Rupees 435,769 



oahlore.] and JUMNA. 615 

The general arrangement of the hill districts, as above detailed, made a great 
and universal impression of the disinterestedness and liberality of the British 
government, except in the minds of particular individuals who actually reaped 
the advantage, yet appeared wholly destitute of that active sense of gratitude 
* which should have induced them to supply readily, and think lightly of the 
slight burthen imposed, in consideration of the manifold favours conferred on 
them. But from the character given them by Lieutenant Ross and Sir David 
Ochterlony, the persons best acquainted with them, little else was to have been 
expected. The first describes them as agitated by all the malignant passions,, 
combined with the most inordinate selfishness, without the slightest sense of 
moral obligation, and without the restraints which even a false religion some- 
times inspires. Like the descendants of Cain, their hand was against every 
man, and every man s hand was against them, so that even the Gorkha police 
did not appear too bad for them. Before their conquest by that tribe, the pos- 
session of the smallest sum of money, or even the apparel on a man’s back, was 
sufficient to ensure an attempt on his life, while passing from village to village, 
through a thinly inhabited country, intersected by woody dells affording every 
facility for the perpetration of crime, and of escape from its punishment. The 
risk of apprehension was still further diminished by the extreme subdivision 
of the territory, and the multiplied authorities within a very limited space, 
all hostile to each other, and all equally indifferent to the ends of justice. 
The progress of time, the peaceful enjoyment of their just rights, and, probably 
for the first time, a steady, upright, and equal administration of their affairs, 
cannot fail of producing an improved system of moral conduct, and conse- 
quently of internal happiness to the great mass of the people. — ( Lieut . Ross 
Sir David Ochterlony , Public MS. Documents, 8$c. 8$c.j 

Cahlore (Cahalur ). — A small principality (by Abul Fazel named Ghahlbre) 
situated on both sides of the Sutuleje, the capital of which is the .town of 
Bdaspoor, from which circumstance its chief is frequently designated as the 
Belaspoor Raja. The Rajas of Cahlore and Hindoor had for a common ancestor 
Beerchnnd, a native of Chundely in the province of Bundelcund, who came front 
thence on a pilgrimage to Joalla Mookhee. At that remote era, among the hill 
zemindars of the caste named Roond, each ruled his own village, independent of 
all superior controul, until Beerchtfnd reduced several of them to subjection. 
He made Belaspoor his capital, and died after a reign of 40 years, leaving two 
sons, one of whom succeeded as Raja of Cahlore, and the other as Raja of 
Hindoor. His descendants to the thirty-second generation are reported to have 
had lands on both sides of the Sutuleje, yielding a revenue of 82,006 rupees. 
In A. D, 1641, the Twelve Lordships became tributary to Cahlore, and subse- 



616 THE SUTULEJE [belaspoor. 

quentiy many other territorial additions were acquired, which latterly, however, 
were lost by the vicissitudes to which these petty hill states are so liable. In 
1803, the possessions of Cahlore on the side of the Sutuleje were confined 
to the city of Belaspoor and pergunnah of Tuhawut, the rest having been seized 
anct occupied by Raja Ram Surren of Hindoor ; but between the above date and 
1807, by the assistance of the Gorkhas, Raja Mahachund of Cahlore became 
repossessed of all the Twelve Lordships, and restored the principality to nearly 
its former magnitude. In 1807, the army of Runjeet Singh of Lahore took 
possession of the pergunnah of Tuhawut, the revenue of which was about 
25,000 rupees, and he has retained it ever since, leaving to the Cahlore chief. 
West of the Sutuleje only about 25,000 rupees per annum. The early Rajas\of 
Cahlore, although exempt from money tribute, were obliged to furnish tfl 
Mogul governor of Sirhind with 500 armed men and 500 hill porters, for the ser- 
vice of the empire, besides annually presenting offerings of the. rarities of the 
country, such as musk, hill horses, and cow tails. 

During the Nepaulese war, after the movement of Ummer Singh on Malown, 
the country of Belaspoor was left entirely at the mercy of the British troops, 
and General Ochterlony experienced great difficulty in restraining the followers 
of the Hindoor Raja from gratifying at its expense their spirit of revenge and 
plunder. He in consequence offered terms to the Cahlore Raja, who had adhered 
to the Gorkhas with exemplary fidelity until compelled to break that connexion 
and join to the British government, which he joyfully accepted, and having ever 
since performed his new duties with punctuality, has been in consequence en- 
tirely exempted from tribute, and from all obligations to furnish begars or hill 
porters. In 1816, Cahlore possessed on the east of the Sutuleje (the only tract 
guaranteed by the British government) the forts of Ruttunghur, Bahadurghur, 
Futtehpoor, Taem, and Mookur. The revenues beyond the Sutuleje were esti- 
mated at 32,000 rupees, and east of that river 28,000 ; making a total of 60,000 
rupees. The inhabitants of this little principality are of a more martial character 
than those of Hindoor and Baghul. Every Cahlorian zemindar possesses a 
sword, and almost every village contains some fire arms. — ( Lieut . Ross, Public 
MS . Documents , 8$c. fyc.) 

Belaspoor ( Bilaspura ). — The capital of the Cahlore principality, is situated 
on the east side of the Sutuleje, which is here 100 yards broad when the waters 
are at the’ lowest. Lat. 31° 14' N. long. 76° 43' E. 70 miles N. E. from 
Ludeeanna. By Mr. Forster, who visited it in 1783, Belaspoor is described as a 
well built town, exhibiting a regularity not often met with in this quarter of 
Hindostan. The streets are paved though roughly, and the houses are built with 
stone and mortar, The Ranny, or Princess of Cahlore (written by him Calowr), 



' sirmore*] AND JUMNA. 617 

then resided here, and possessed an income which he estimated at 12 lacks of 
rupees ; but a tenth of that sum would probably have been nearer the truth. 
In 1810, Belaspoor was said to contain 3000 houses.— (Forster, <$c. .) 

Hindoo*. — A hill principality, the chiefs of which trace their lineage to a 
common ancestor with the Rajas of Cahlore; but they have nevertheless been for 
many ages rivals and hereditary enemies. The existing chief, Raja Ramsurren, 
being a man of considerable ability, and under little restraint from any moral 
principle, prior to the Gorkha invasion from the eastward, had nearly effected 
the subjugation of all the little states in his neighbourhood, and but for the 
arrival of that tribe he would probably have become paramount in the hills. 
The history of these petty and vindictive wars, is full of sudden transitions from 
a state of hostility to one of offensive alliance, for the purposes of aggrandize- 
ment, which as abruptly reverted to former enmity, when its temporary objects 
had been accomplished. By the Gorkhas, after an obstinate resistance, Ram- 
surren was compelled to fly to the plains ; but on the rupture between that 
people and the British government, he immediately joined the latter, and by his 
exertions merited a restoration to all his possessions, which was accordingly 
effected with the exception of Malown, which it was judged necessary to retain 
as a military position. The revenue to Hindoor from the hill territories under 
the Gorkha government, in grain, money, customs, and nuzzerana, amounted to 
about 15,000 rupees; but in consequence of its vigorous struggles against the 
Gorkhas, it had suffered much devastation, which induced the Raja and many 
zemindars to retire to Pallasia. Its revenues from the plains, in 1815, were 
estimated at 30,000 rupees annually, making a total of 45,000 rupees. The 
land here is distributed rather with reference to produce and soil, than to mea- 
surement, into divisions called Tekas, from every ten of which the Raja exacts 
two maunds of grain and two rupees. 

In 1815, the petty district of Berowley, which devolved to the British go- 
vernment by the extinction of the reigning family, was granted to Raja Ram- 
surren as a reward for his services ; but its distance from Ilindoor, the turbu- 
lence of the people, and his own unpopularity in that quarter, made him 
disregard it. The tract was in consequence, with his consent, subsequently 
transferred to another chief, for the sum of 8,500 rupees, which amount was 
accounted for to Ramsurren. — ( Lieut . Ross, Public MS. Documents , fyc.) 

Sirmore (Sirmaur .) — A principality of considerable extent, situated between 
the Sutuleje and Jumna rivers, and bounded in its whole extent southerly by 
the protected districts of the Seiks ; to the east by the Tonse river ; on the west 
by the Twelve Lordships, which extend northerly to Bussaher. This tract of 
country has for many years been governed by a race of Rajpoot princes, said to 
rot. n. 4 k 



618 THE SUTULEJE [siimae. 

have come originally from Jesselmere, who long exercised a paramount autho- 
rity over man} others. In 1775, Raja Kineh Singh died, leaving four sons, of 
whom Kurrum, Perkaush, the third, succeeded regularly on the decease of his 
two % elder brothers, but in consequence of misconduct, and other causes incident 
to native communities, much anarchy ensued, and he was repeatedly dethroned 
and restored. He remained for some years prior to 1803 in possession, when 
the Gorkhas, having extorted contributions from the Raja of Gurwal or Se- 
rinagur, meditated a similar attack on the Sirmore country, of which Nahan is 
the capital, but were prevented for a time by a pecuniary douceur, and by 
certain stipulations in their favour. These gave great offence to the Raja lof 
Kangra, and some other hill chiefs, as exposing their dominions to the invasions 
of the Gorkhas, a combination among them in consequence took place, which 
ended in the expulsion of Kurrum Perkaush, The Gorkhas, as might be expected^ 
embraced the cause of the deposed chief, and reinstated him as a sort of feuda- 
tory, under certain conditions, the performance of which he evaded, and was in 
consequence again expelled. When the British troops entered the hills in 1814 
against the Gorkhas, they found that most of the hill chiefs had been either banished 
or degraded, and many were in a state of the most extreme indigence. Among; 
these was Raja Kurrum Perkaush of Sirmore, his former improvident profusion 
having left him without those resources which the lesser chiefs had secured, 
either by the jewels of their seraglios, or through the friendship of the lowland 
leaders. 

After the expulsion of the Gorkhas, Kurrum Perkaush was not remiss in 
putting forward his claims, but the British government determined to exclude 
him from the general restoration on account of his personal character. The 
restoration of any part of the family was a matter of pure option with the 
British government, since their own exertions had contributed nothing to the 
liberation of their country. It was determined, notwithstanding, to place the 
minor Raja on the throne, under the immediate guardianship of his mother, 
there being no male relative or public functionary to which this important trust 
could be confided. The profligacy and tyranny of Kurrum Perkaush while he 
reigned, seemed to have been especially directed against every thing like worth 
and intelligence, so that when the British arrived, the prior existence of some 
worthy individuals was merely a matter of tradition. These he had murdered, 
and in their stead promoted the associates of his iniquity, a band of ignorant and 
rapacious miscreants, turbulent without courage, and presumptuous without a 
vestige of common sense. Accordingly, on the 15th of September, 1815, Futteh 
Singh, the son of Kurrum Perkaush, was seated on the guddy, or throne of Sir- 
more, under the guardianship of his mother, subject to the controul of the British 



KAttAN.] AND JUMNA. 619 

commissioner, on which occasion, in conformity to the custom of his ancestors, 
he took the name of Futteh Perkaush. The country left in his possession, 
together with the duties collected at the great fair of Tilakpoor, were expected 
to yield 40,000 rupees per annum clear of expenses, and these resources were 
known to be susceptible of great improvement. In settling the limits, the 
Tamas or Tonse river was selected as a marked boundary, beyond which the 
British government could claim nothing to the westward, nor that of Sirmore to 
the eastward. 

A provision was assigned to Kurrum Perkaush, the dethroned Raja, on condi- 
tion of his residing beyond the limits of Sirmore, and engaging never to inter- 
fere with the officers of the principality ; but from diseases contracted in the 
course of his vicious life, his decease in 1816 was daily looked for. When 
discussing the probability of this event, the Ranny, or queen regent, although 
she had been always treated by the Raja in the most execrable manner, informed 
the British commissioner, Captain Birch, that her life and that of her husband 
were one (alluding to her intention of burning at his funeral), that it was so 
decreed, and that she must not listen to any advice tending to mislead her from 
the performance of her duty. The general practice of the British government of 
abstaining from authoritative interference in matters closely allied to the reli- 
gious prejudices of the natives, was considered peculiarly incumbent with 
reference to persons of the Ranny s elevated condition, but every means of 
influence and dissuasion were thought permissible, either with the individual 
herself, or with the Brahmins and Pundits likely to sway her opinion, and the 
British commissioner was accordingly instructed to use them as opportunities 
offered . — (Sir David Ochterlony, Public MS. Documents , Capt. Birch , &$c. fyc.) 

Nahan. — The capital of the Sirmore principality, situated in laft. 30° 31' N. 
long. 77° 13' E. 46° N. by W. from Saharaapoor* This is a large open town; 
populous and of a handsome appearance, situated oft a level spot of table land 
on the summit of a lofty mountain. When captured frdm the GbiJA as by the 
British army in 1815, the approaches to Nahan were found few and difficult.- 
The houses, particularly that of the Raja, were constructed for defence, and 
every accessible point of the eminence on which it stands was fortified by a 
small stone redoubt, built in the shape of a star, and unassailable by any force 
not provided with artillery. No material resistance, however, was experienced* 
The town of Nahan stands about 2000 feet above the level of the plain, and in the 
neighbourhood about five miles further up is a fortress named Jampta, situated 
on tiie top of an immense conical peak. During the winter the snow is fre- 
quently at Nahan from two to three inches deep, and at Jampta from seven to 
eight inches. The valley of Nahan is sheltered from the setting and rising sun 

4 k 2 



620 THE SUTULEJE [bcssahes. 

by the surrounding hills. From the top of these mountains the plains of Sirhind 
present a wide prospect to the S. the S. E. and S. W. ; but the view to the 
northward is terminated at a short distance by the snowy mountains. From 
lienee the northern side of the hills produce the Scotch fir in great abundance, 
and 'the willow is frequently found. — (Public Journals , Lieut. Blanc , <§*c. 8$c.) 

Kardeh Doox. — Is the tract of country between the Jumna river and town 
of Nahan, and was retained by the British government after the expulsion of thp 
Gorkhas, both on account of its eventual importance in a military point of view, 
and as contributing in some degree to indemnify the charge of the protection 
afforded to Sirmore. As yet, however, the tract has proved very unproductive, 
principally owing to the pestilential nature of the atmosphere, which in the 
rainy season compels the inhabitants to retire to one or two of the most elevatea 
villages, to escape the sickness which then prevails. The soil, though marshy* 
is good, and pushes forth such luxuriant crops of long, rank, reedy grass, that if 
the cultivators retire for a few months, they find on tlieir return all traces of 
their former labours overgrown with jungle. A considerable emolument, how- 
ever, is derived from the admission of cattle to graze during the hot season, an 
also from the zemindary claims to the produce of wood, which is in demand in 
the Seik country. It is understood that the Kardeh Doon was formerly well 
peopled and cultivated, and it is probable that its present insalubrity proceeds 
from its neglected condition and the consequent growth of jungle. In 1815, the 
total number of houses in the Kardeh valley was 280, and these contained only 
600 inhabitants. The customs were farmed for 2000 rur^es in 1816, but the 
land revenue was scarcely worth mentioning. Two of the villages named Tokah 
and Casipoor were granted by the first Rajas of Sirmore to the Mahunt, or 
high priest of the temple at Nahan, together with various other appropriations 
of land and money for religious purposes ; indeed, there was scarcely a part of 
the Sirmore tertitory that had not been rendered more or less tributary to that 
sacred edifice. These had been sequestrated during the war, but were restored 
in 1816 to the Mahunt, which gave great satisfaction to his flock and to the 
public in general. — (Captain Birch , Public MS. Documents , fyc. §c.) 

Bussaiier (Besariya). — This principality, of which Rampoor is the capital# 
occupies the northern portion of the tract of mountainous country bounded on 
two sides by the Sutuleje and Jumna, extending to the eastward until it meets 
the district of Rowaheen, which belongs to Gurwal or Serinagur, and northward 
to the snowy mountains of Himalaya. Of the actual extent and value of this 
hilly district, no very accurate information has ever been procured. About 
181u, as above related, it was completely subdued by Ummer Sing Thappa, and 
remained subject Wthe Gorka yoke until 1814, when it was freed by the efforts 



BU9IAHKR.] AND JUMNA. 621 

of the British arms but without any active co-operation on the part of the go- 
vernment or its inhabitants. This, however, proceeded more from inability to 
act than from indifference to .the cause, the Raja being then a child, and the 
Ranny, his mother, withheld from any active movements through dread of the 
Gorkbas. Under these circumstances, the Bengal government adverting to the 
resources of Bussaher, deemed it fitting that that state should contribute towards 
the expense of its defence, and in consequence determined to require of it a 
tribute of 15,000 rupees per annum. The fort and territory of Raeenghur, on 
the left bank of the Pabur, and the pergunnah of Sindook, containing an im- 
portant military position, were retained ; but with these exceptions, such of the 
dependencies of Bussaher as had been actually in possession at the time of the 
Gorka invasion, were declared to belong to that state, but those not so situated 
were declared independent. 

While the Gorkhas were predominant they kept the whole Bussaher country 
in their own hands, with the exception of Sinhawn, Kunhaury, and another 
sterile pergunnah to the eastward, near, if not on, the snowy range. For these 
three pergunnahs the Bussaher chiefs sent an offering of 12,000 rupees, so that 
15,000 rupees for the whole, as required by the British government, appears 
moderate. The stupidity and insensibility of this government, and common to 
all in this quarter, was exemplified by their complaining most heavily to Sir 
David Ochterlony, because Mr. Fraser occupied Raeenghur with his irregulars 
when it was evacuated by the Gorkhas. In reply, they were desired before they 
complained of the occupation of a military post, to recollect to whom they were 
indebted for the privilege of writing from, or about Bussaher at all. At present, 
the retained forts and districts are — 1. The fort of Raeenghur: 2. The lands 
annexed from the Raeen pergunnah east of the Pabur river, which yielded to 
the exactions of the Gorkhas only 1800 rupees per annum. 3. The pergunnah 
of Sindook and the forts of Seelecdan and Whurtoo. This pergunnah consists 
of a range of hills, the most commanding between the snowy mountains and the 
plains, which furnishes excellent military positions on its summit, and commo- 
dious ground for cantonments on one of the declivities. According to popular 
opinion, Whurtoo commands the whole of the north-eastern hills. The revenue 
yielded by the Sindook pergunnah is about 1500 rupees per annum. The tract 
named Chohara consists of pudder, or low rice lands, already cultivated to the 
utmost, and some ridges of invincible sterility. Some portions of Bussaher, 
thinly as they are peopled, are quite unequal to the support of any additional 
population, and during a part of the year are precluded from receiving any ex- 
ternal supplies by the depth of the snow, which renders the roads impassable. 
The total revenue of Bussaher, in 181G, was estimated at 80,000 rupees per 



THE SUTULEJE 


622 


[SERAJf* 


Ooghur Singh, the late Raja of Bussaher, was only 12 days old at die death 
of his father and predecessor, Rooder Singh. During the long minority of that 
Raja, the affairs of government were administered by the Ranny mother, as- 
sisted by three viziers, the principal of whom was distinguished by the title of 
Mokthar. The Mokthar of those days was the father of the present Teekum 
Doss ; and Ram Dutt and Buddtee Doss, are the sons of his colleagues respec- 
tively; and the same system of hereditary vizierships still continues. At 
present, the Raja being a minor, the principality is governed by a regency esta- 
blished under the authority of the British government, which, however, does 
not exercise any interference with the internal administration of the country. 
When the country was first conquered it was supposed that commercial advan- 
tages might be derived from an intimate connection with Bussaher, as opening a 
communication with the countries beyond the snowy mountains. The attention^ 
of Sir David Ochterlony was early directed to that object, and an- intelligent 
native was deputed northwards to collect information, but nothing of importance 
has as yet resulted. A settled government, fixed and moderate duties, and im- 
proved roads, may possibly hereafter induce the traders, who now only barte f r 
with the inhabitants of Bussaher, to extend their joumies further south, to seek 
for the British staple at Juggudhree and Pattiallah; but at present these 
northern tribes do not appear to have any idea of covering more costly than a 
coarse woollen manufacture of their own, except an inferior sort of shawl, the 
use of which, however, is greatly limited by the general poverty of the commu- 
nities . — ( Lieutenant Ross, Sir D. Ochterlony, Public MS. Documents, &;c. 8$c.) 

Rampoor ( Ramapura ). — The capital of the Bussaher country, situated in 
lat. 31° 29' N. long. 77° 20' E. 70 miles N. from Nahan. This is the largest 
town in this quarter of the hills, and a principal mart for the goods of Tibet, the 
hills, and the plains ; but the total amount is inconsiderable. Cloth, sugar, and 
cotton are brought here from the plains and sold to the hill people, as also iron, 
copper, grain, and indigo, which are exchanged with the Tibetians (here named 
Bhooteas) for shawl-wool, tea, and China cloths. 

Seran. — This place is about two marches or 22 miles higher up the river 
Sutuleje than Rampoor above described, and stands on a hill three miles from 
its banks. In 1816, it was the residence of the young Raja of Bussaher, then 
six years of age, and consisted merely of his house, and those of a few families 
drawn together in consequence of his residing here. From Seran there is a 
route leading to Mantullai Garna, a Chinese town ; but the roads are described 
as leading over ledges of rock projecting pver tremendous depths, and almost 
impracticable even for foot passengers . — ( Public Journals, 8$c.) 



bughat.] AND JUMNA. 623 

Keonthul. — This is the largest of the Barra Thakooria, or twelve lordships, 
and according to native accounts was established by Rana Ketoo Sen about A. D. 
1000, with whose descendants it is said to have continued for nearly 600 years. 
Its bounds have always greatly fluctuated according as success or the reverse 
attended its arms, sometimes acquiring and sometimes losing the sovereignty 
over the adjacent lordships. For many years prior to the Gorkha invasion, 
Keonthul paid to the paramount authority in the hills 1100 rupees annually, 
levied in the names of the kings of Delhi by the Rajas of Cahlore, Sirmore, and 
Hindoor, according to the degree of power they respectively possessed ; and it 
was further required to furnish to the state to which it was tributary, a contin- 
gent of 650 fighting men, and the same number of hill porters, nominally for the 
service of the Mogul empire, but generally employed for the purposes of indi- 
vidual aggrandizement. 

After the expulsion of the Gorkhasin 1814, the chief of Keonthul having for- 
feited every claim to restoration, the territory was offered to the Seik Raja of 
Pattiallah for a certain sum, which was agreed to by him. For the same reason, 
the district of Bughat which had also become disposable, was also transferred 
to Pattiallah, together with the fort of Juggutghur ; for the whole of which he 
paid a nuzzerana or offering of 280,000 rupees. Exclusive of the pecuniary 
gain, a considerable advantage was attained by the establishment in the hills of 
a native power, whose exertions could be relied on, and which was bound to the 
British government by other ties. Keonthul contains the forts of Subathoo, 
Panta, Jaraha, Gurjurree, and Hindoor, all of which with the exception of the 
first were dismantled by the Gorkhas. Including the forts of Gurjurree and 
Hindoor, the Girree rivulet has been considered the boundary between Sirmore 
and Keonthul. In 1815, the total revenue was estimated at 40,000 rupees per 
annum . — ( Lieutenant Ross , Public MS . Documents , 

Bughat. — This petty lordship (one of the twelve) is bounded on the west by 
the Pinjore valley; to the N. W. by Kothaur; and to the east and south by 
Sirmore. If appears to have undergone little change since 1586, when, accord- 
ing to native accounts, it was under Rana Narrain Pal. Until the decline of 
the Mogul sovereignty, Bughat paid the governor of Sirhind an annual present 
of 750 rupees, and was bound to furnish on requisition 600 armed men, and 600 
hill porters for the so vv;e of the empire. This state contains the forts of Raj- 
ghut, Ajmanghar. Tuxal, Lukchaynpoor, and Thuroo. Mahindra Singh, the 
present Raja of Bughat, held his territories of the Gorkhas for a payment of 2000 
rupees per annum, but having by his conduct during the war forfeited all claim 
on the British government for the restitution of his territories, a certain portion 



624 THE SUTULEJE [bhuje*- 

was retained as a compensation for the expense incurred .— (" Lieutenant Ross, 
Public MS. Documents , §c.) 

Baghul.— The country of Baghul was first formed into a lordship by Ajaya 
Deo,' a Rajpoot of Oujein, whose descendants remained for many years tnde* 
pendent, but in process of time paid an offering of 1000 rupees to the sovereign 
of Delhi, through the Rajas of Hindoor, Cahlore, or Sirmore, according to their 
temporary power and consequence, and also furnished 300 fighting men and 300 
hill porters. Under these circumstances it experienced many territorial vicissi- 
tudes, until the Gorkha invasion in 1804, when in consequence of its chiefs 
connexion with Raja Ramsurren of Hindoor, he was expelled the country ; the 
whole of which was seized on by the Gorkha commander, Ummer Singh. 
ghul contains the fort of Buheree, erected by the Gorkhasnear Urki, the Rana’s 
present residence. Under the Nepaulese sway the total revenue extorted from\ 
Baghul amounted to 23,247 rupees. — ( Lieutenant Ross , §c. §c.) 

Kothaur. — This lordship consists principally of a narrow stripe of land, 
mostly plain and cultivated, extending along the left bank of the Gumbhur, be- 
tween Keonthul and Sfahlogh. It was formerly a dependancy of Keonthul, and 
along with the rest of the hill states fell under the Gorkha domination in 1804, 
and paid a revenue of 3000 rupees per annunj. Its contingent is 225 armed men, 
and a like number of hill porters, and during the war it took an active part on 
the side of the British government. Lat. 30 ° 57' N. long. 77° 4' E. 32 miles 
N. N. W. from Nahan. — ( Sir David Ochtedony , Lieutenant Ross, 

Koomharsein. — This lordship is situated on the east bank of the Sutuleje, by 
which river it is bounded on the north-west ; by Bussaher on the N. E. ; by 
Bhujee on the S. W. ; and by Keonthul on the south. It was formerly de- 
pendant on Keonthul, and subsequently on Bussaher; but for many years prior 
to the Gorkha invasion had been independent of both. It contains no fort. Its 
contingent was 200 armed men, and 200 hill porters; the estimated revenue 8000 
rupees. — ( Lieutenant Ross f fyc.) 

Bhujee. — The family of the present Rana of Bhujee claims descent from the 
ancient Rajas of Delhi, or Indraprest, named Pal, a relation to one of whom, 
according to native tradition, came on a pilgrimage to Joalla Mookhee, about 
A. D. 616, and it is said then established his sway over the tract of country 
which constitutes the present principality of Kangra. Two hundred years after 
that era, Kangra being attacked by another hill Raja, Khurung Pal, the then 
existing chief fled to Bhujee, where he established his authority, and where his 
descendants continued to rule, under many vicissitudes of fortune, until they 
were expelled by the Gorkhas in 181 1. In former times, Bhujee paid to the para- 



mpuvh.) AND JUMNA. 625 

mount state in the hills 660 rupees, levied in the name of the Emperor of Delhi 
by the Rajas of Cahlore, Hindoor, or Sirmore, and was also assessed for a con- 
tingent of 300 fighting men, and 300 hill porters! The Gorkhas were expelled by 
Sir David Ochterlony in 18\4, when he was joined by the Thakoor of Bhujee, 
who, however, came late and unattended. The Bhujee territory contains no fort 
but 1 that of Kungur, which is in the possession of the Cahlore Raja ; the total 
revenue in 1815 was estimated at 6500 rupees. — (Lieutenant* Ross, fyc. 8$c.) 

Malooh.— T his small lordship originally depended on Keonthul, and was 
conquered along with the others by the Gorkhas, who levied a revenue from it of 
6512 rupees. It contains no fort but that of Timour, and formerly furnished a 
contingent to the paramount power in these hills of 300 armed men, and 300 hill 
porters. The revenue in 1815 was estimated at 8000 rupees. — (Lieutenant 
Ross , 8$c.) 

Dhamee. — The total revenue of this member of the Barra Thakooria, or 
twelve lordships, is only 4000 rupees, out of which it formerly paid a tribute to 
the prevailing power in the hills, besides being liable to furnish a contingent of 
100 fighting men, and 100 hill porters. It contains no fortresses within its 
limits. 

KooNYAR,-»—This is a small and fertile plain lying between Kothaur, Baghul, 
and Keonthul, formerly dependant on the last, and containing no f6rt. The, an- 
nual value of this petty lordship is only 1800 rupees; its contingent to the 
ruling power was formerly 25 armed men and 25 hill porters. 

Mungul. — T his lordship consists of only a few villages in the N. E. corner of 
Cahlore, yielding at the utmost to the proprietor only 500 rupees, out of which 
200 are paid to Cahlore. 

Abkj. — T he residence and head quarters of Ummer Singh, the Gorka com- 
mander, during the domination of that people among the hills between the 
Sutuleje and Jumna. Lat. 31° 3' N. long. 76° 55' E. 68 miles E. N. E. from 
Luddeeanna. 

Joobul. — This petty chiefship and its dependancies Ootraj and Sarrannee, 
are bounded to the east by the Pabur river; to the west byPoondurand 
Bulsun ; to the north by Bussaher, and to the south by Sirmore . As far as can 
be collected from the very confused accounts of the natives, Joobul has long con- 
sisted of four shares, as they are termed ; one under the Rana, and three under 
a Rise number of hereditary viziers, who are probably descended from officers 
originally appointed and removed at the pleasure of the Rana. Why these 
viziers, who have done so much towards rendering themselves independent, have 
not co mpl eted the business, can only be accounted for from the peculiar nature 
Of the succession, which is considered to be exclusively vested in a family rather 
mu n 4 L 



626 THE SUTULEJE [joowu 

than in an individual ; in consequence of which, although instances are frequent 
where a father has been dispossessed, by his son, and an elder by a younger bro- 
ther, there are none on record of a mere subject being raised to the throne. The 
settlers among these hills were wholly of the caste called Roond Rajpoots, 
emigrants from the south-westward, who formed states among the barbarous 
tribes and constituted themselves rulers. Agreeably to their established usages, 
none but a Rajpoot can reign over the most insignificant of them, and the 
obstacles to the intrusion of any other caste, are wholly and completely insur- 
mountable; The succession is thus perpetuated in the same family, and in the 
same branch of that family, in furtherance of which object, little, if any increase 
in the number of Rajpoots is permitted. The Rana of one state marries qis 
daughter to the presumptive heir of another, and his own heir makes a similar 
alliance, which is always expensive, and frequently difficult to effect. The younger 
sons are married to women of inferior caste, but the whole of their, progeny are 
precluded from the sovereignty, and thus it happens, that while the blood of the 
reigning prince may flow through the greater part of the population; the caste 
essentially to rule is invariably lost in the junior branches. The utmost, there- 
fore, that the most enterprizing vizier can do, is tg make the Rana his tool ; but 
still to keep up appearances, and contribute a trifle to his support, and hence the 
singular circumstance of an assemblage of states, virtually independent, yet 
where the more powerful pay tribute and do homage to the weaker. 

“The original four shares of Joobul were — 

1. Burhal, under the Rana. 

2. Butouree, under Danjee Vizier’s ancestors. 

3. Chepaul, under Praim Singh Vizier’s ancestors. 

4. Chayta. 

Each of the second and third shares were equal to the aggregate of the first, 
added to the fourth. At present, by the incorporation of the 4th with the 2nd, 
they have been reduced to three snares, since which, one half of Joobul has been 
under D4nje* Vizier and the remainder unequally divided between the Rana and 
Praim Smgh. Jn 1815, the Rana’s share, in consequence of the interference of 
the British commissioner, was augmented by the addition of the pergunnah of 
Jukowtee, the existing divisions consequently are 

Estimated reve- 
Possessors. nue in money* 

Burhal, including Jukowtee . . Rana Poorien Chund . . 2000 

Butouree and Chayta .... Danjee Vizier. . . . 5000' 

Chepaul . . • Praim Singh Vizier . . . 3000 

Rupee* . 10,000 



xunaitoo.] AND JUMNA. 627 

The Rana also in 1815 received from Danjee a contribution of 1000 rupees, 
and from Praim Singh one of 600 rupees. Ummer Singh, the Gorkha commander, 
extorted the first year from this territory 22,000 rupees; the second, 19,000; 
and the third and last, 15,000 : but the country was so exhausted by his oppres- 
sion, that it now remains in a state of the greatest poverty, and until the de- 
serted villages are repeopled, and the zemindars repossessed of sufficient 
capital, the revenue must continue at a very low ebb. After the expulsion of 
the Gorkhas the state of Joobul was declared independent, but the turbulent cha- 
racter of the people, and the incapacity of their chiefs, prevented the benefits 
thafr were expected from this arrangement. It was in consequence intended to 
reannex it to Sirmore, on which it had formerly been dependant. The town or 
fort of Joobul is situated in lat. 31° 10' N. long. 77° 35 E. 50 miles N. by E. from 
Nahan. — ( Lieutenant Ross , Public MS. Documents , &;c.) 

Koteghur. — T his petty chiefship, by some reckoned among the twelve lord- 
ships, is bounded on the N. W . by Koomharsein ; to the S. W. by Burowlee ; on 
the south it has Bulsun, and to the east Poondur and Joobul. It was originally a 
dependancy of Keonthul, and afterwards of Bussaher, but has long been inde- 
pendent of both. Its contingent was formerly 150 armed men, and the same 
number of hill porters, and to the Gorkhas it paid 6600 rupees per annum. The 
Rana resides at Koteghur, which is a place of some strength, but there is no other 
fortress within its limits. This district is only separated by the Sutuleje from 
the independent states of Cooloo, Sookait, and Mundee, which circumstance, 
together with the nature of a country, thinly inhabited and intersected by deep 
and almost impervious dells, where every path and road affords facilities both for 
the commission and concealment of murder, render an efficient police almost 
impracticable. Lat. 31° 12' N. long. 77° 28' E. 50 miles N. of Nahan.-^-fZ/ewte- 
tmnt Ross, Lieutenant Walker , 8$c.) 

Bulsun. — This petty chiefship is situated on the left bank of the Girree river, 
whence it extends eastward to the frontier of Joobul, by which it is also 
bounded to the south ; to the north it joins Koteghur. The extent of surface is 
very small, but yielded the Gorkhas 6100 rupees per annum. During the Ne- 
paulese war, its Thakoor, or lord, distinguished himself by surrounding a Gorkha 
post and compelling the garrison of 100 men to surrender. Lat. 31° 5' N. 
long. 77° 28' E. 42 miles N. by E. of Nahan. 

Kunaitoo.— T his place as well as Kurungloo and Dulaitoo, were originally 
dependancies of Keonthul, and subsequently of Bussaher; but on the Gorkha in- 
vasion they all three shook off the yoke of the latter, since which time Dulaitoo 
has returned to its former subjection, while the latter two have remained inde- 
pendent* These three states are situated on the southern frontier of Bussaher 

4 l 2 



THE SUTULEJF [foonbue. 

between that principality and the Thakoors of Koteghur and JoObul. Under 
the Gorkha sway Kunaitoo was charged with a tribute of 5000 rupees, Dulaitoo 
of 5000 rupees, while Kurungloo paid anuzzerana, or offering, of 3650 rupees, 
Dulaitoo contains the forts of Kuttoo (or Wartoo) and Mustghurree ; and 
Kurungloo' that of Bagee. 

Poondur. — A remote and barbarous community among the hills, the real 
circumstances of which are but imperfectly known. At present it is said to 
consist of three divisions : 1st. Muttealla, being that portion situated east of the 
Gohlee stream; 2d. Gaveel; 3d. Joobur. The principal village is Muttealla, 
containing 35 houses or families ; and there are ten other hamlets, each contain- 
ing only four families. To the east of Muttealla, Poondur is separated froW 
Joobul by a ljigh barren hill, in which direction there are not any villages. Thfe 
chief men of this division are two Seannas, named Goonea and Peretum, whoi 
with another Seanna, or head man, exercise an undefined authority over the other 
inhabitants, from which frequent quarrels originate. Gaveel, containing 25 fa- 
milies, is the next largest village, and Joobur has 18. These three divisions of 
Poondur have little if any political connexion with, or dependance on each 
other ; but on some occasions the head men act together, such as in arranging ; 
the proportion of tribute to be borne by each, or when co-operating against in- 
vasion. None of these head men, however, on account of their caste and family 
could aspire to the rank of Rana, being all of the Kunait division of the Chullee 
class, formed by intermarriages with lower castes ; an unblemished Rajpoot 
descent being an indispensable qualification for the dignity of Rana, Thakoor, or 
sole ruler, of the most insignificant state among the hills. 

This tract was never entirely reduced by the Gorkha power, the independent 
and ferocious character of the inhabitants enabling them to make a protracted 
resistance. During the inroads of 1810-11, and 12, undertaken more for the 
purposes of chastisement than settlement, the Gorkhas levied 15,000, 8000, and 
5000 rupees value, by the seizure of money, grain, cattle, and property of every 
description, but the last year the country was utterly exhausted. During the 
respite it has enjoyed since the Gorkha expulsion, it has somewhat recovered by 
the return of emigrants, yet in 1815, the whole tract contained only 160 occu- 
pied dwellings. 

This territory devolved to the British government in consequence of there 
being no living representative of the ancient reigning family, but its relation to 
the superior state is of a very anomalous and embarrassing nature, being mote 
like the dependance of a tributary republic, devoid of internal organusation, than 
an annexation, of country amenable to the British jurisdiction, and susceptible 
of regular settlement. In 1816 , the inhabitants of Poondur were stiU in the 



jouksak.] AND JUMNA. 629 

habit of receivingfrom the adjacent villages of Koteghur and Joobul a sort of 
black-mail, as the price of their forbearing to plunder and burn. Under these 
circumstances* it became a public duty incumbent on the British government,' to 
compel Poondur, should compulsion be necessary, to become an orderly and 
peaceable member of the hill states, the mere desire of liberty for the purpose 
of infesting their neighbours, not appearing entitled to much respect. On the 
other hand, notwithstanding its insignificant population, Poondur possesses great 
capabilities for maintaining a prolonged opposition, as on any hostile approacl 
the inhabitants are accustomed to forsake their dwellings, concealing undei 
ground their grain and such valuables as they cannot carry away, and ther 
retire to the woods and fastnesses, where it is utterly fruitless to follow them 
From these retreats they sally out during the night, cut off stragglers and out- 
posts, and harass small convoys. Of fire arms they possess but a very limited 
number, and these of the worst description ; but they use the bow and arrow, and 
also a sort of hatchet, which they project as a missile with great force and 
dexterity. Sir David Ochterlony recommended the transfer of this turbulent 
community to the chief of Keonthul, as if left to itself it would prove a scourge 
to the surrounding states, and a scene of sanguinary anarchy within. The ob- 
jection to this arrangement was the impracticability of inducing the people ge- 
nerally to submit to the rule of any single individual ; but it appeared evident, 
that no degree of opposition likely to be made to the Thakoor of Keonthul, 
would require a greater exertion of military coercion than would inevitably be 
necessary to establish any kind of supremacy, not excepting that of the British 
government . — ( Public MS. Documents, Lieutenant Ross, fyc. §c.) 

Saugree. — A very small independent state, situated on the banks of the 
Sutuleje, between Bhujee and Koomharsein. 

Morni. — It is curious to observe that in the very midst of the hills between 
the Sutuleje and Jumna, and surrounded by Rajpoot princes, a small Mahom* 
medan sovereignty had been created, yielding a revenue of about 5000 rupees 
per annum. The fort of Morni, and some others destroyed by the Gorkhas, were 
built by a Seid, whose descendants were only driven from thence about 45 years 
ago, and in 1814, actually occupied a fort named Kotaha, which the possessor 
Meer iaffer contrived to maintain against all the efforts of the Seiks. On the 
arrival of the British army in the hills, he joined Sir David Ochterlony with a 
good body of irregulars, in consequence of which co-operation, the original state 
of Morni was restored to him. 

'* Jounsar.- — Between the Jumna and what is called the Tonse (or Tamas) lie 
the pergunnahs of Jounsar or Kalsee, and Bhawur, which last appears to have 
been formerly a component part of the first, although now distinct. For a long 



630 THE SUTULEJE Oounsab. 

time prior to the British invasion of the hills these districts had been much op 
pressed, for after suffering with the rest of the country under the tyrannic sway 
of Kurrum Perkaush of Sirmore, they were, when conquered by the Gorkhas, 
made over to different Sirdars, at a greater value than the country could afford 
which occasioned such atrocities, that the Gorkha soldiers were allowed to seize 
and sell the inhabitants for ready money. During the British attack on the 
Gorkhas, these tracts furnished many hill porters, which not only affected the 
husbandry, but also prevented their trading in the natural productions, working 
the copper and lead mines, gathering turmeric and other articles, which resources 
principally enable them to pay the revenue, some of the divisions not yielding suf- 
ficient grain for their own consumption. For the cultivation of turmeric, ginger, 
wheat, and rice, much manure is required, the cultivator of these must conse- 
quently possess a number of cattle, while other families who have only one oV 
two pair of bullocks, can only cultivate the smaller grains for their own sub- 
sistence. To realize any solid money, some are obliged to work in the mines, to 
cut small bamboos for hookahs (here a great article of trade), gather walnuts* 
pomegranates, and other fruits of spontaneous growth, which are in demand on 
the plains. If a family consequently has many working men, it can pay a con- 
siderable revenue, whereas if the land alone were assessed, there would be a 
great deficiency. 

Jounsar is formed into 26 divisions called kuts, and Bhawur into two ; each 
kut having a seanna or headman, besides one to each village, all of whom are 
also considerable cultivators. Each seanna of a kut, after agreeing for his pro- 
portion of the assessment, gives a banker of Kalsee as his security for its liqui- 
dation at the appointed periods. There are also four chief seannas, in whose 
families from time immemorial has been vested the general controul of Jounsar 
and Bhawur, as far as regards the revenue assessments and the arbitration of 
disputes. While these tracts were subject to the Rajas of Sirmore, being too dis- 
tant from Nahan, their capital, to admit of trials and references, the chief seahnas 
were authorized to administer justice on the following general principles, viz. — 
to take blood for blood, to deprive a thief of his eyes, and punish others at their 
discretion, by cutting off the nose, ears, or fingers, by confinement, or by the 
lash. The authority of husbands over their wives was nearly unlimited, as they 
could put them to death for adultery, as also the seducer and aU his accomplices., 
During the Gorkha domination, except fur offences against their revenue or so- 
vereignty, no cognizance whatever was taken of those between man and man, 
so that rancorous feuds and blood retaliations descended from generation to 
generation. 

After the expulsion of the Gorkhas in 1814, the British government determined 



BHAWUlt.] AND JUMNA. 631 

to separate the pergunnahs of Jounsar and Bhawur (both situated to the east of 
Tonse) from Sirmore, with the view of reimbursing the heavy expenses neces- 
sary for the protection of this mountainous region. They were then placed 
under Captain Birch, who proceeded to form a revenue settlement, founded on 
the system already in existence, which arrangement appeared to answer for the 
time every necessary purpose. The revenue settlement for 1815-16 was 

For Jounsar 15,600 

Bhawur 1,100 

Customs 2,000 

Total rupees 18,700 

This amount was realized without difficulty, and notwithstanding the prior 
reputation of the inhabitants for turbulence, the commissioner in the course of 
the whole year had not occasion to employ a single sepoy. The roads through- 
out Jounsar are in many parts dangerous for foot passengers, and impracticable 
even for a hill poney. Great labour and expense would be required to improve 
them, the solid rock occasionally intervening, and must, to clear the way, be cut 
through. The least difficult path is in the bed of the Ormlow river, which tra- 
verses the centre of the pergunnah. — ( Captain Birch , Public MS. Documents , 
Sir D. Ochterlony , 8$c. &;c.) 

Kalsee. — This is the chief mart for all the country lying between the Sutu- 
leje and Tonse rivers, and merchandize is also brought to it from Gurwal and 
Bussaher. Lat. 30° 35' N. long. 77° 40' E. 15 miles E. by N. from Nahan. In 
1 8 15, there being no caravanserai or place of shelter for such strangers as re- 
sorted here with their goods, it was the custom for the merchants and house- 
keepers of the town to invite them to their houses, the consequence of which 
was that the stranger was entirely at their mercy as to price, it being understood 
among the town’s people that no competition was to take place with his host, 
who besides extorted a commission from his guest for weighing and counting the 
goods. To remedy this evil, government, in 1816, ordered a serai to be C6n- 
structed at Kalsee, and great inconvenience having beej experienced from the 
want of a proper ferry boat on the Tonse at that point, nere being no means of 
crossing the river, until above Bhawur* except in the hollow trunk of. a tree, a 
regular ferry boat was ordered to be established, and much difficulty was expe- 
rienced in dragging up this vessel to Kalsee against a rapid current, and other 
impediments from rocks and large stones in the bed of the river. — (Captain 
Birch t $c.) 

Bhawur.*— T he section of this pergunnah situated to the west of the Tonse 
was formerly named Bucap, but now Dewgur* from being the spot where the 



THE SUTULEJE 


632 


[rowkx. 


sect and tenets of the Mahassoo Dewtah religion originated, since which period 
the division of Dewgur has been considered holy land ; but when the faith ex* 
panded, and the donations to the shrine became considerable, Hoop Singh, the 
chief, made it contribute to the revenue. 

According to Brahminical traditions, at a remote era of time, a man ploughing 
in the pergunnah of Bucan saw a snake, which, erecting itself before him, said, 
“ I am sent by the divinity, raise near this place an image to be worshipped, 
call it the Mahassoo Dewtah, and it will reveal to you laws that are to be 
obeyed.” On learning this vision of the cultivator, some Brahmins made (an 
image, and placed it in the field where the snake had appeared, and after some 
time had elapsed, it was inspired to give them the following instructions, the 
observance of which secure the devout from the evils of the present world, anu 
ensure their happiness in the next, viz. — ' 

1st. Never to sleep in a bed with four legs. 

2d. Never to drink pure milk. Butter-milk is permitted, but it is meritorious 
to abstain from eating the butter, it being more praiseworthy to burn it at the 
places appointed for the worship of the Mahassoo Dewtah, or demigod. 

3d. Always to sacrifice the finest goats at the demigod s shrine, and if similari 
sacrifices elsewhere be abstained from — so much the better. 

Sometime after the promulgation of these specimens of supernatural wisdom, 
the Brahmins removed the image to Oonooree, on the east bank of the Tonse, 
where it still remains, much venerated by the people, and its priesthood amply 
supplied with offerings. Besides the main establishment, there are in Jounsar 
and Bhawur many little temples dedicated to this sectarian faith . — (Public MS. 
Documents , Captain Birch , $c. §c. §c.) 

Roween (Rowahin ). — The 'geographical position of this extensive district in 
not yet clearly ascertained. A map in the possession of the Bengal government, 
compiled by Mr. Fraser, represents it as bounded on the north-west by the 
Tonse and the Pabur, and south-east by the Jumna, with the exception of a 
very small section situated to the south of that river,- in which portion stands 
Burrahaut the principal town. If this map be correct, almost the whole of the* 
pergunnahs lie to the north-west of the Jumna, although the capital be situated 
to the south-east of that river. After the conclusion of the campaign against 
the Gorkhas in 1816, the disposal of this tract of country was reserved for fu*. 
ture consideration, which ultimately torminated in a resolution to restore it to 
the Raja of Gurwal or Serinagur, Independent of the general aversion felt by 
the British government to any increase of territory among the hills, it appeared 
that with reference to the large deductions to be made from the ancient fern* 
tones of the Gurwal principality, it would not be expedient to deprive it of the 
Roween district — f Public MS. Documents* ‘ 



GURWAL (garhawal), OR SERINAGUR. 


A province of Northern Hindostan, situated principally between the 30th and 
31st degrees of north latitude. To the north it is separated from Tibet by 
the Himalaya mountains; on the south it has the great plain of the Ganges; to 
the east its limits are defined by the Daub, Alacananda, and Ramgunga rivers ; 
and to the west by the course of the Jumna. The superficial contents may be 
estimated at 9000 square miles, and containing two geographical subdivisions, 
viz. Gurwal Proper, which occupies the whole of the lower ranges of hills, and 
the sources of the Ganges, comprehending the holy and mountainous region 
from whence that river springs. In former times this principality also included 
Kumaon, when Gurwal was designated by a term signifying 1 1 lacks, and Kumaon 
by that of 8 lacks, but it is not clearly ascertained whether these numbers had 
reference to revenue or population, In 1814, the Gorkhas had undisputed pos- 
session of the whole country extending northward to the dependancies of China, 
but since their expulsion a new division has been effected, by which it has been 
separated into two distinct portions ; the British government having retained 
the Deyrah Doon, the passes of the Ganges and Jumna at either extremity of 
that valley, as also all the country to the eastward of the Alacananda and Bhagi- 
rathi, which last mentioned tract has been annexed to Kumaon, and the re- 
mainder restored to the expatriated Raja. The present boundaries therefore of 
his territories to the eastward, are the Alacananda from Rudraprayag until its 
conjunction with the Bhagirathi, and thence to the plains by the united streams 
of the Ganges, and above Rudraprayag, where the Alacananda receives the 
Maadakini by the latter river. All the territories to the east of that line have 
been permanently annexed to Kumaon. 

To the southward towards Lolldong the whole face of this country is an as- 
semblage of hills jumbled together in many forms and directions; sometimes in 
chains lying parallel to each other, but of no great extent, and often connected 
at their termination by narrow ridges running across the vallies at right angles. 
The .summits of all are usually narrow, and of various shapes, and the distance 
between each range short ; the vallies in consequence are so confined that in 
von. ii, 4 w 



634 GURWAL [ovrwai. 

many parts it would be difficult to find a spot large enough to accommodate a 
corps of 1000 men. Some of these ranges are covered with trees and always green, 
others are naked and stony, affording shelter for neither birds nor beasts. On 
the eastern borders of this province, among the lower ranges of mountains, are 
exiensive forests of oak, holly, horse-chesnut, and fir, and beds of strawberries 
are also seen, equalling in flavour those of Europe. From Lolldong to the 
Ganges, the country forms, with very little interruption, a continued chain 
of woody hills, which extend eastward to an undefined extent. In these 
forests the elephant abounds, but greatly inferior in size and quality to die Chit- 
tagong elephant, on which account it is seldom domesticated. On the eastern 
borders there are hill pheasants among the mountains, but they keep near me 
summit, and seldom venture into the vallies, unless compelled by heavy falls pf 
snow. Indeed, but a small part of this extensive country is either populated dr 
cultivated, a great proportion of its surface being left in the undisturbed posses- 
sion of the wild animals. 

In 1796, while Gurwal, including Kumaon, existed as an independent princi- 
pality, the revenues were estimated at five lacks of rupees per annum, which 
amount comprehended the duties on imports and exports, the land rents, &c. 
the working of the mines, and washing of gold. The imposts were levied on 
the importation of rock salt and borax from Bootan ; musk in pods, chowries, 
hawks, and male and female slaves, from the countries bordering on Bhadrinath ; 
from the plains, cotton cloths of all descriptions ; and salt from Lahore. The 
above estimate was probably beyond the reality, or a most rapid decline must 
have taken place after the Gorkha conquest, as in 1811-12, the abstract state- 
ment of the revenue of Gurwal was as follows, viz. — 

Collections in Gorkha rupees. 

Districts situated on the east side of the Alacananda 51,781 

Ditto, between the Alacananda and Bhagirathi . 17,660 


Ditto, across the Bhagirathi 19,875 

Total 89,316 

Add sayer or customs 7,909 


Gorkha rupees 97,225 
Deduct one-fourth 24,306 

Sonaut rupees 72,919 
Add the Deyrah Doon - . 22,264 


Net receipts in Sonaut rupees 95.183 



wnu] AND KUMAON. 635 

The whole people of Gurwal and Kumaon, as well as their language, are 
called Khasiyas, as having settled in the Khas country ; but all pretend to be 
descended from colonies which have migrated from the south, and disclaim every 
connection with the original impure barbarians. West from Gurwal the term 
Khas is altogether rejected, and it is asserted that the impure race never held 
the country. Although only separated by a small river, the inhabitants of Gurwal 
differ much in their appearance, dress, and language, from those of Kumaon, 
being considerably stronger and more active. This may in some degree arise 
from their habits of life, a great majority of the former earning their subsistence 
as carriers of burthens up and down the mountains, and as attendants on 
pilgrims to the holy places. Even in their mode of bearing their loads, a differ- 
ence is perceptible, the Kumaonies practising the low country method of placing 
it on their head, while the others fix it to their backs by means of slings, through 
which they patfs their arms. This also elucidates the surface of the two countries, 
for in the lugged and nearly perpendicular paths of Gurwal, the method adopted 
in Kumaon would be impracticable. But the inhabitants of Gurwal, although 
stronger than the Kumaonies, appear equally devoid of the energy usually at- 
tributed \o highlanders, for although oppressed by the Gorkhas, and sold by 
hundreds into slavery, they never made any effort to assert their independence. 
Yet their country is remarkably strong, the mountains being lofty and precipi- 
tous, and separated at their bases only by deep water-courses and streams, 
formed by the numerous rivulets and torrents which pour down their sides. 

The Bhagirathi and Alacananda, which by their junction at Devaprayag form 
the Ganges, are the largest rivers of Gurwal. The first has a course from north 
to south, &nd the latter from north-east to south-west, and towards them all the 
other streams have a natural inclination. The Bilhang, which falls into the 
Bhagirathi, the Mandakini,- the Pinden, the Mandaioki, the Birke, and the Dauli, 
all of which join the Alacananda, may be denominated streams of the secohd 
order* Of these, some approach in magnitude to the river they unite with ; 
a majority, have their sources in the Himalaya mountains, which one (the Dauli) 
actually penetrates, and is certainly the remotest source of the Ganges. None 
of these streams being fordable, they are crossed by rope and platform bridges, 
at the most convenient points of communication, the masses of rock and stones 
by which their cnannel is encumbered preventing in most places the use of 
boats, the roads are merely footpaths, carried along the slope of a mountain, 
Jd the direction of the principal streams and water-courses. Those leading to 
Bhadrinath are annually repaired for the accommodation of pilgrims, but they 
are almost impracticable for all sorts of cattle, the only sure conveyance for 
goods and military stores being by means of the hill porters* Serinagur, the 

4 m 2 



GURWAL 


636 


[oUBWAt* 


capital, is the only town of note, next to which comes Barahaut, the modern 
residence of the Gurwal Raja, but the province abounds with celebrated places 
of ^worship, which seem to have been held sacred among the Hindoos for many 
ages, although there is reason to suppose that the conversion of the inhabitants 
to the Brahminical faith is an occurrence of no great antiquity. Four of the five 
places named Prayag, or holy junctions of rivers, all celebrated for their sanctity 
and sin-dispelling qualities, are within the limits of this miserable principality, 
as is also the source of the most revered of rivers, and hence named Gang-gotri, 
or the source of the river. I 

The country now called Gurwal (Garhawal or Gar), at least in part, formerly 
belonged to a petty chief of low birth, who resided at Chandpoor, and paid, 
tribute to Karuvirpoor, the capital of a dynasty, which has long since disap- 
peared. About 360 years ago, a Rajpoot came from the plains and entered into 
the service of the Chandpoor chief, whom he subsequently expelled, but Gurwal 
continued tributary to some of the neighbouring and more powerful of the hill 
states until the reign of Mohiput Sah, who declared himself independent, built 
Serinagur, and made it his residence, owing to which circumstance, his descend- 
ants have been usually known to Europeans as the Serinagur Rajas. This chief 
was succeeded by his son, Syam Sah, who died without male issue, and was 
succeeded by Futteh Sah, his uncle’s son, who incurred an indelible stain by 
delivering to Aurengzebe one of that emperor’s brothers, who had taken refuge 
in the mountain*, as a reward for which perfidy, he received the jaghire of Doon 
and Chandi, two low-country estates. This chief also considerably extended 
the Gurwal territories to the north, where penetrating into Tibet along the Niti 
pass, he exacted a tribute from the Raja of Deba or Dapa, which continues, 
although not to the original amount (which exeeded five pounds weight of gold), 
to the present day. His grandson, Pradipa Sah, who came to the throne at five 
years of age, reigned 75 years, during which he had several wars with Nudjiff 
Khan, who then governed the petty remains of the Mogul empire. His son and 
successor was Lalit Sah, who made his younger son, Pradyumna, Raja of Ku- 
maon, which chief afterwards succeeded also to Gurwal. After the conquest of 
Gurwal, the Gorkha commanders, in concert with Harsha Deb, a turbulent Brah- 
min, attacked Gurwal, and after a contest of two years, were on the point 
succeeding, when they were recalled to Catmandoo in consequence of the ftp* 
proach of a Chinese army. When General Kirkpatrick visited Nepaul, in 1793, 
the Gorkhas had reached, but had not, as then asserted, subdued Gurwal, which 
event cannot be dated earlier than 1803, in which year, Ammer Singh Th&pa^ 
was detached with 3000 musqueteers, and an equal number of irregulars, to 
extend the Gorkha dominions to the westward. No pretext was ever held mt 



AND KUMAON. 


OUEWAL.] 


637 


for this attack, nor does it appear that the natives of India generally ever con- 
sidered a pretence for the commencing of a war necessary or incumbent, although 
since their diplomatic intercourse with Europeans, they have collected and oc- 
casionally make use of many very good observations on the subject. The above 
force being thus suddenly directed against Gurwal, the Raja, Pradyumna Sah, 
unable to oppose an, effectual resistance, retired with his family into the British 
territories, where, having sold the family throne for 150,060 rupees, he raised 
some troops, returned to the Deyrah Doon, and fought a battle with theGorkhas, 
in which he was defeated and slain. His family, however, escaped, and in 1814, 
Sudarsan Sah, the undoubted heir of the family, was with Sir Edward Cole- 
brooke, at Futtehghur. 

During the war of the above year, between the British and Gorkhas, the en- 
tire apathy and neglect of the exiled Raja, his family, and adherents, towards 
contributing by their exertions to its success, was such, as left the country at 
the disposal of the British government, unshackled by any engagement resulting 
from the conditions on which the Raja was invited to join and co-operate, and 
Gurwal might safely be viewed as a country conquered from the Gorkhas, by the 
unaided efforts of the British government. The latter, however, did not take 
advantage of that circumstance, further than to complete, with such variations 
and extensions as expediency might suggest, the original intention entertained, 
and carefully made known to the Raja, of retaining the Deyrah Doon, including 
the ferries on the Ganges and Jumna, together with the territories lying to the 
east of the Bhagirathi and Alacananda, as boundary streams. The question re- 
specting the extensive district of Roween, was reserved for future consideration, 
which ultimately terminated in its -restoration to the Raja, whose hopeless con- 
dition. a short time back, must have precluded all contemplation of ever reco- 
vering any fraction of his hereditary dominions. The aggregate revenue of the 
territory thus restored, including the district above mentioned, amounted to 
40,000 rupees per annum, subject to no other charge than the expense of the 
civil administration, and of the Raja’s family and household; the British go- 
vernment undertaking the military protection, and all other contingents arising 
from the connexion with Gurwal. The Nepaulese nilers had counted the houses 
and villages in the portion given up to the Raja, and according to one report, 
they amounted to 1 129 villages, and 5144 houses, which at five to a house would 
give 25,720 for the number of inhabitants ; but this appears a singularly scanty 
population for so extensive, and in many places fertile, tract of country. By the 
adoption of the Alacananda for the eastern boundary, the town of Serinagur, the 
ancient capital, fell within the territory reserved by the British government, jn 



GURWAL 


638 


[gurwal. 


consequence of which, the Raja, after some consideration, fixed his residence at 
Barahaut, where the details of his civil government are conducted by his own 
officers, and the expense defrayed from his own resources. 

Previous to the re-establishment of the Raja, a sunnud was delivered to him, 
specifying the conditions of the grant, which were, that he should govern hi* 
subjects with lenity and justice, promote agriculture and commerce, and abolish 
the traffic in slaves. It was also stipulated that he should not alienate or mort- 
gage any portion of his territory without permission ; that he should furnish hill 
porters and supplies when wanted, and generally perform all the obligations (of 
allegiance and fidelity ; in return for which, he would be protected by the 
British troops, which were, however, only to be employed for the maintenance 
of public tranquillity, and for strengthening his authority when the ordinar^ 
local establishments were found insufficient. It was thought advantageous that 
the least possible degree of interference in the details of the internal administra- 
tion should be exercised by the British government, but that its advice and as- 
sistance should not be withheld, nor even its direct interposition when necessary 
to check mismanagement or prevent the recurrence of anarchy and confusion. 

Besides the Deyrah Boon, valued at 22,264 rupees per annum, the other 
sections of Gurwal annexed to the Kumaon district, were valued at 37,000 
rupees per annum, at a fair and moderate assessment, exclusive of the Sayer or 
variable imposts. The mines of pergunnah Dhunpoor are of copper, and in 
1816, were leased for one year at 1850 Furruckabad rupees. In that year none 
of the . mines in pergunnah Nagpoor were worked, but it appeared from accounts 
shewn to the commissioner, that the principal mines, which are of copper, had 
yielded 52,000 rupees in the year immediately preceding the Gorkha invasion 
During the confusion, consequent to that event they were abandoned, and have 
since been choked up with rubbish, to recover them from which condition would 
require more capital than a native miner usually possesses. It was soon dis- 
covered that a disproportionate quantity of rent-free land was attached to tem- 
ples and other religious buildings, the resumption of which might cause*an im- 
pression unfavourable to the character of the British government for liberality and 
toleration, in matters connected with the faith and religious usages of all classes 
of their native subjects. It was in consequence determined that the revenues of 
the pergunnahs so appropriated should be continued, provided that the commis- 
sioner was satisfied they would not be diverted from their original purpose, and, 
as too frequently happens, converted to a source of individual emolument. The 
repair of the road from Serinagur to Bhadrinath also appeared an object of some 
importance, as encouraging the resort of a greater number of pilgrims, and 



8ErikaO0eO AND KUMAON. 639 

thereby promoting the intercourse and traffic between the plains and the immense 
hills whence spring the sources of the Ganges.— (Raper, Public MS. Documents , , 
I- Buchanan, Trail, W. Fraser , Hardwicke , <§*c. #c. #c.J 

Serinagur. — The capital of the province of Gurwal, situated in lat. 30° ll'N. 
long« 78*44 E. 38 miles E. N. E. from Hurd war. The valley of Serinagur ex- 
tends about a mile and a half to the eastward, and the same distance to the west- 
ward of the town. The river Alacananda enters the valley near a village named 
Seerkote. Its course here is nearly east and west, and the breadth of the chan- 
nel, from bank to bank, about 250 yards ; but in the dry season the stream does 
not exceed 80 or 100 yards. At the western extremity of the valley the current 
strikes with violence against the rocky base of the mountain, near to which it is 
crossed on a rope bridge, or joolah, suspended across the river, here 80 yards 
bfoad, from posts erected on each side. From the appearance of the river, it is 
probable that canoes or floats of timber might pass down at all seasons of the 
year. The aspect of the surrounding mountains is very barren, exhibiting a 
rocky, sterile soil, where the little vegetation that is produced is soon parched 
up and disappears. 

The town of Serinagur occupies nearly the centre of the valley, and is in 
length about three quarters of a mile, but much less in breadth, its form being 
elliptical. The houses are of stones roughly and irregularly put together with 
common earth, generally raised to a second floor, and all covered with slate. 
They are so crowded together as to leave little more space for the street than is 
sufficient for two persons to pass. The house of the former Rajas is in the 
middle of the town, and is the largest, being raised to a fourth story, and built 
of coarse granite. The ground floors of the houses are used as shops, and the 
upper stories for the accommodation of the family. The encroachments of the 
Alacananda, the earthquake of 1 803, and the Gorkha invasion, all combined to 
hasten the decay of this town, which, when taken possession of by the British 
in 1815, was in a very ruinous condition. The inhabitants consist chiefly of 
descendants of emigrants from the low countries, and the leading persons are the 
agents of the banking houses at Nujibabad and in the Doab, who are employed 
in the sale and exchange of merchandize and coins. Formerly these persons re- 
sided here only eight months of the year, quitting the hills and returning to their 
homes at the commencement of the rainy season. The traffic in silver and specie 
forms one of the most profitable branches of commerce, and is carried on to a 
considerable amount. 

The other articles of mercantile, speculation are the produce of die hills, and 
the imports from Bhote and Tibet in transitu to the plains ; for the population 
of the province is too scanty to consume any large quantity of any article what- 



GURWAL 


640 


[alacananda rive*. 


ever. The produce of the hills consists of a coarse nempen cloth, hemp, lead, 
copper, drugs, gums, wool, and a sort of coarse woollen cloth. From Bhote are 
received chowries or cow-tails, musk in pods, saffron, borax, salt, drugs of dif- 
ferent kinds (among which is the curcuma zedoaria), and a few shawls which 
come by that circuitous route from Cashmere. Hawks are also brought down 
from the hills, and gold from the table land of Tibet. In exchange for these 
commodities, the following supplies are received from the low countries, viz. 
coarse cotton and woollen cloths, silks, spices, Lahore salt, sugar, and tobacco. 
The whole trade, however, of the capital is quite insignificant, as most of the 
above articles find an easier channel through the hills to the eastward, and by\the 
town of Almora. Fruit, such as apples, pears, strawberries, grapes, apricots, 
peaches, nuts, and barberries, is abundant, all of which, and many more, grow 
wild among the hills. The grapes are said to be as large as those that have been 
regularly cultivated. 

On the opposite side of the river at the village of Ranihaut is a temple sacred 
to Raja Ishwara, which is principally inhabited by dancing women. The initia- 
tion into this society is performed by anointing the head with oil taken from the 
lamp placed before the altar, by which act they make a formal abjuration of their 
parents and kindred, devoting their future lives to prostitution. Among the 
items of eleemosynary donations distributed to Brahmins and others by the old 
governments, and continued under the present regime by the British, the prin- 
cipal in amount is 512 rupees, which is given to various tribes of religious men- 
dicants, who frequent a melah or fair held annually near to Serinagur. — ( Raper , 
Hardwicke , Trail, «§'c. 8$c. 8$c.) 

Alacananda River. — This river springs from the Himalaya mountains, and 
joins the Bhagirathi at Devaprayaga; the junction of the two forming the 
Ganges. A very short distance to the north of Bhadrinath, the breadth of the 
Alacananda does not exceed 18 or 20 feet ; the stream shallow and moderately 
rapid. Further up, the stream is concealed under immense heaps of snow, which 
probably have been accumulating there for ages. Beyond this point travellers* 
have not dared to venture, although the Shastras mention a place called Alaca- 
pura, the fabulous city of Cuvera, the Plutus of Hindoo mythology. At the 
junction abovementioned at Devaprayaga, the Alacananda is the largest rivet of 
the two, being 142 feet in breadth, and rising in the rainy season 48 or 47 feet 
above the low water level. At Ranibaugh the breadth of the A Y ^etmaiidft st 
from 70 to 80 yards, with a current of seven or eight miles in tfte hour. 

in this river are a great many fish of the roher species (cyprinus denticulate}* 
four or five feet in length, which are daily fed by the Brahmins, and some are so 
tame as to take bread out of the hand. There is also a species qf fi sh name d 



AND KUMAON. 


KALUNGA.] 


641 


Sober, six or seven feet long ; the scales on the back and sides are large, of a 
beautiful green, encircled with a white golden border ; the belly white, slightly 
tinged with a gold colour ; the tail and fins of a dark bronze. The flavour of this 
fish is equal to its external beauty, being remarkably fine and delicate. — 
(Paper, 4’cO 

Baeahat. — T his is the modem capital of the Gurwal Raja, and is said to be 
about 20 miles distant from Serinagur, the ancient metropolis, but its exact 
situation is not yet satisfactorily ascertained. 

Deykah Doon. — A valley in the province of Gurwal, situated between the 
Jumna and Ganges rivers, which, by the treaty concluded with Nepaul on the 
2d December, 1814, and ratified on the 4th of March, 1815, was ceded to the 
British, and subsequently annexed to the northern division of the district of 
Saharunpoor, under suitable provision for the administration of that tract framed 
with reference to the actual condition of the inhabitants. This valley or strath 
having been a jaghire from Aurengzebe to Futteh Sah, the reigning Raja of Gur- 
wal, belonged properly to the throne of Delhi, but on the invasion of Gurwal in 
1803, it was seized on by the Gorkhas along with the rest of the country. In 
1816 the estimated value of the Deyrah Doon was 22,264 rupees per annum; 
but it was known to have produced a much larger revenue formerly, and it is 
probable a few years of tranquillity will restore its prosperity and augment its 
productive revenue to its former amount of 50,000 rupees. In considering the * 
value of this Doon, however, it must not be examined with advertence to the 
mere amount of its revenue, but also with reference to its importance in a mili- 
tary and political point of view, as connecting the British territory east of the 
Ganges within the hills, with the Kardeh Doon beyond the Jumna, and thus by 
means of the occupation of Malown and Subhatoo, and eventually of a fortress 
in Sirmore, furnishing a strong and uninterrupted line of defence from the Cali 
to the Sutuleje. — ( Public MS . Documents , &;c. 8$c. §c. ) 

Kalunga (or Nalapani ). — A fortress in Gurwal, 26 miles N. from Hurdwar. 
Lat*30°20'N. long. 78° 6' E. In the valley of Detra, a little to the north-east 
of Kalunga, are many caves inhabited by a race of people nearly in a state of 
nature. These excavations extend for some distance into the rock, and are fre- 
quently a considerable height from the ground, being ascended to by rope 
ladders When entered they are found to below, narrow, and very dark, having 
no aperture but the entrance. The food of these troglodytes consists chiefly of 
rice of a remarkably large grain ; and their speech, the dialect named by the 
Bengalese, the Pahari Zubaun, or hill language. 

In October 1814, this place was besieged by the army under General Gillespie, 
who attempted to carry it by storm on the 31st of that month, but the assailants 
rot, tb 4 N 



642 GURWAL [RU DR APR A YAGA. 

were repulsed with the loss of 24 killed and 195 wounded; the general himself 
being among the number of the slain. On the 27th of November of the same 
year, it was again assaulted by the British forces under Colonel Manby of the 
53d, when a second repulse was experienced and with augmented slaughter, the 
loss amounting to 37 killed and 444 wounded. Notwithstanding their success 
in these two instances, the garrison, although they had scarcely suffered any loss, 
were so intimidated by the preparations for a third assault, that they fled out of 
it during the night of the 30th of November 1814 . — (Public Journals , 8$c. 8$c.) 

Devaprayaga (The Union of the Gods ). — This is one of the five principal 
prayagas (holy junctions where two rivers meet) mentioned in the Shastras, and 
is considered by all the Brahminical Hindoos as a spot peculiarly sacred. 
Lat. 30° 9' N. long. 78° 33' E. 12 miles west from Serinagur. The town stands 
at the confluence of the rivers, and is built on the scarp of a mountain about l<k) 
feet above the water. The mountain rises 8 or 900 feet above the town. The 
houses are in general two stories high, built of large stones, with a coarse lime- 
stone cement, and covered with a sloping roof of shingles. In the upper part of 
the town stands a temple sacred to Raghunath or Ramachandra, constructed of 
large pieces of cut stone piled up without mortar, in height about 60 feet. The 
presiding deity is an image about six feet high, cut in black stone, the lower 
part of which is painted red. The town contains from 200 to 250 houses, in- 
habited by Brahmins of different sects, but principally those of Poona and the 
Deccan. Twenty-five villages were conferred in jaghire by the Gurwal Rajas, 
and afterwards continued by the Gorkhas ; but in 1809, the annual produce did 
not exceed 1200 rupees, a sum very insufficient for the maintenance of the 
numerous officiating. priests. Both town and temple suffered much by an earth- 
quake in 1803 ; the last was subsequently repaired at the expense of Dowlet 
Row Sindia. The resident Brahmins, being very ignorant persons, can give no 
information when, or by whom, the edifice was erected ; the only point they are 
quite certain of is, that it has been in existence 10,000 years. 

The sacred junction is formed by the streams of the Bhagirathi and Alaca- 
nanda rivers, the last before their confluence being the most considerable stream, 
with a breadth of 142 feet, and during the rainy season a depth of 46 or 47 feet 
above the low water level. The breadth of the Bhagirathi is 1 12 feet, and it is 
said to rise 40 feet during the rains. The union of these two currents forms the 
Ganges, the breadth of which immediately below the junction is 80 yards. — 
(Webb, 8$c.) 

Ru rnt apr a yaga. -A Hindoo place of pilgrimage in the province of Gurwal, 
where the Alacananda joins the Caligunga, a large stream which rises in the 
mountains of Kedar, and in the Shastras is denominated the Mandakini. The 



SOURCES OF THE GANGES.] AND KUMAON. 643 

confluence of these two rivers at this place is one of the five principal prayagas, 
or holy junctions, mentioned in the sacred books of the Hindoos. Lat. 30° 18' N. 
long, 78° 59' E. 19 miles N. E. from Serinagur. 

Carnafrayaga. — A village in the province of Gurwal, situated at the con- 
fluence of the Alacananda with the Pindar river, Lat. 18° 16' N. long. 79° 12' E. 
30 miles E. by N. from Serinagur. This is another of the five prayagas, or holy 
junctions, mentioned in the Shastras, and considered the third in point of con- 
sequence. The village consists of only six or eight houses, with a math, or shrine, 
in which is placed the image of Raja Carna . — ( Raper , 8$c.) 

N and apra yaga. — This is the most northerly of the prayagas, or holy junc- 
tions, and is formed by the confluence of the Alacananda with the Nandakini, 
a small river flowing from the south-east. Lat. 30° 20' N. long. 79° 18' E. 38 
miles E. N. E. from Serinagur. There was formerly a temple and small village 
near the spot, but no remains of either are now to be seen. A few grain dealers 
occasionally fix their temporary shops here ; and, as a substitute for a temple in 
a place of such sanctity, a few loose stones are piled up, on which some Hindoo 
images are exposed for the adoration of pilgrims. The fifth holy junction is at 
Allahabad, where the Ganges and Jumna unite, named emphatically, Prayaga, 
or the junction. 

Sources of the Ganges. — In the old maps this mountainous region is named 
Badrycazram (Vadarica Asrama), which signifies the bower of Vadarica trees; 
but until lately had never been explored except by some wandering Hindoo 
devotees, searching for the sources of their sacred river, here concealed from 
view by mounds of never-melting snow. The' face of the country is composed 
of the third ridge of mountains from the plains, the fourth or highest range 
being that which separates Hindostan from Tibet, or Southern Tartary. No 
variety of surface therefore can be expected, hill succeeding hill, and precipice 
precipice, with chasms filled with drifted snow, until at length the highest range 
is attained, the descent from which to the north is comparatively with the other 
so gentle, that it has been always described as table land. Through these moun- 
tains there are three communications, by which salt is brought from Tibet ; one 
a little way west of Gangoutri, which is difficult ; the other two lead from the 
vicinity of Bhadrinath. That by Manoo is said to have no supply of fuel ; but 
the passage by Niti is reckoned the best through the Himalaya in these western 
parts, and will probably soon be so improved as to render this hitherto formida- 
ble ghaut of very easy access. Rock crystal is said to be found in the vicinity of 
the snow, where, although the cold is very intense, many sheep are pastured. 

By the hill natives and low country Hindoos the whole tract ot country' close 
to tfie highest ridge of Himalaya is termed Bhot* and the descriptions of the 

4 N 2 



044 GURWAL [gangoutri. 

territory similarly situated, given under the articles Nepaul and Bhutant, strictly 
apply to this region also, both with respect to its physical appearance, and to its 
animal, vegetable, and mineral productions. Vyas, the great legislator of the 
Hindoos, together with many thousand saints and sages of the early yugs or 
ages, are supposed by that people to be still alive in a large cavern, somewhere 
in this remote and sacred region, but the place of their domicile has never yet 
been discovered by their wandering votaries, who continue, notwithstanding, 
patiently to seek what they are doomed never to find. j 

Gangoutri (Ganga Avatar i ). — A celebrated place of Hindoo ^pilgrima^e, 
situated among the Himalaya mountains, near to which the river Ganges issues 
into day from under an immense mound of snow, estimated by Captain Hodgson, 
to be situated 12,914 feet above the level of the sea. Lat. 31° 4' N. long* 78° 55' B. 
62 miles N. by E. from Serinagur. 

On the 5th of May, 1808, Captain Raper’s Hindoo Moonshee (name wanting) 
reached this remote place, when on the banks of the Ganges he found a wooden 
temple containing the footsteps of the goddess (the Ganges) visibly marked on a 
black stone, and also three pools named Surya (the sun) Coond, Vishnu Coond, 
and Brahma Coond. These pools are in the Ganges, being names assigned to 
distinct portions of the river where pilgrims bathe. The last mentioned is 40 
cubits wide and two deep, and consist of pure Ganges water unpolluted b} T any 
otner stream. Bhagirathi Sila is a large rock in the river, on which King 
Bhagirathi worshipped the deity. At this place the river came from north 
seven points east, with very little current ; snow lay on all sides, and almost no 
trees to be seen but the birch. A large temple, roofed with wood, contained an 
image of the Ganges in red stone, a small female figure of silver, images of Siva 
and Parvati in red stone, as also of Bhagirathi, Annapurna Devi, Vishnu, 
Brahma, and Ganesa. A Brahmin then attended here from the 12th of April to 
the 14th of July; but the place had few visitors, except the different classes of 
religious mendicants. 

At Gangoutri the breadth of the Ganges is said to be from 15 to 20 yards, the 
current moderate and not above waist deep. Two miles further on is the place 
called the cow’s mouth, which is a large stone in the middle of the river, the water 
passing on each side and disclosing a small piece above the water, to which 
tancy may attach the idea of a cow. In 1808, Lieutenant Webb* and his party 
approached within 16 or 18 miles horizontal distance of this place; but on 
account of the extreme difficulty of the road, and want of time, could proceed 
no further. The short distance above mentioned was reckoned a journey that 
would occupy six or seven days. The pilgrims and other persons in the vicinity! 
who gain a livelihood by bringing water from the spot, reported that the road 



KEDARNATH.] AND KUMAON. 645 

beyond Gangoutri was passable only for a few miles unto where the current 
became concealed under heaps of snow, which no traveller had ever surmounted, 
or could surmount. 

The pilgrimage to Gangoutri is considered a great exertion of Hindoo devo- 
tion, the accomplishment of which is supposed to redeem the performer from 
troubles in this world, and ensure a happy transit through all the stages of 
transmigration which he may have to undergo. The water taken from hence is 
Irawn under the inspection of a Brahmin, to whom a trifling sum is paid for the 
privilege of taking it, and much of it is offered up by, or on the part of the 
pilgrim, at the temple of Baidyanath, a celebrated place of worship in the Bir- 
boom district, province of Bengal. The specific gravity of this river is said to 
exceed that of its neighbour, the Alacananda, according to Hindoo belief, and is 
so pure, as neither to evaporate, nor to become corrupted by being kept. — 
( Captain Raper's Moomhee , Raper , Webb, §c.) 

Rehtul. — A small village containing 35 houses built of wood, and two or 
three stories high, situated on the east side of the Bhagirathi. Lat. 30° 48' N. 
long. 78° 20' E. 

Rhairava Math. — A Hindoo place of worship among the sources of the 
Ganges, eight miles W. S. W. from Gangoutri. 

Kedarnath ( Kedara Natha ) t ~-A Hindoo temple among the Himalaya moun~ 
tains. Lat. 30° 53' N. long. 79° 18' E. 61 miles N. E. from Serinagur. In 1818* 
Captain, Webb found the height of the temple to be 11,897 feet above the level 
of Calcutta. 

This place lies about 14 or 15 miles direct distance to the W. N. W. of 
Bhadrinath, but the intermediate hills are inaccessible from snow, so that tra- 
vellers are obliged to take a circuitous route by the way of Josimath. The 
road to Kedarnath is much obstructed by, and in some places leads over, beds 
of snow extending for several miles. By the time the journey to Kedarnath is. 
completed, Bhadrinath is ready to receive visitors, who, having paid their devo- 
tions, return by the road of Nandaprayaga and Carnaprayaga, and thus conclude 
the grand circle of pilgrimage. The sacred object of worship here is a mis- 
shapen mass of black rock, supposed to resemble the hind-quarters of a buffaloe, 
regarding which a most absurd legend is narrated by the officiating priests. 
The sips of the flesh may also be expiated by self-sacrifice. In effecting this 
the devotee is conducted by the Brahmins to the gorge of a snowy defile, where 
they quit him, leaving instructions to proceed forwards until he reaches a tre- 
mendous precipice, over which he is directed to leap. When Captain Webb 
visited Kedarnath, in 1818, he found there three females who had quite recently 



646 GURWAL [bissenpraag. 

had the desperate resolution to go in search of the precipice but in vain ; 
indeed its existence is probably a mere fable. One of them died from the 
effect of the intense cold immediately after her return, another was likely to 
survive, but with the loss of both feet and one hand ; the extremities of the 
third were in such a state of mortification that a speedy death was all she could 
wish for. 

Aghora is a name of the deity Siva, and Aghora Panties are a kind of mendi- 
cants suspected of many strange practices, and amongst others of cannibalism. 
According to Hindoo notions, when these devotees set out on this northern pil- 
grimage, they first receive an incantation (named Aghora Mantra) from a gooroo 
or spiritual guide, and also another to enable them to reach Kedamath. Here 
they are supplied with a second incantation, which assists them to reach a temple 
16 miles beyond Kedamath, where they receive a third of so potent a nature, 
that they are enabled to brave the frost and precipices, and, reach Cailasa, the 
residence of their deity . — ( Webb , Raper, Ward , $c.) 

Josimath (Jyotimata ). — A village among the sources of the Ganges, situated 
near the junction of the Dauli with a mountain torrent named the Vishnu. 
Lat. 30° 33' N. long. 79° 40' E. This place contains from 100 to 150 houses, 
neatly built of grey stone, and roofed with shingles. They are raised to the 
height of two or three stories, and the streets are paved, although in an irregular 
manner. On the slope of the hills there is a line of water mills, placed about 20 
yards from each other. The water that turns them is supplied by a stream which 
flows down the mountains, and having passed through the upper mill, is con- 
ducted to the next by a communication of troughs made of hollowed trunks of 
firs. The sides of the mountain in the vicinity are overspread with forests of 
oak, while their summits are covered with a species of fir. At a village called 
Sellang, belonging to Bhadrinath, the whole scarp of the mountain, from the base 
to near the summit, is laid out with fields of wheat, barley, and other species 
of grain. 

At Josimath is the house of the high priest of Bhadrinath, who resides here 
during six months of the year, while the temple at that place is shut up. On 
the commencement of the cold season, when the snow begins to accumulate 
among the mountains, all the inhabitants quit the neighbourhood of Bhadrinath, 
and take up their residence at this place. Adjoining the priest’s house is a 
temple of Nara Singh, one of the incarnations of Vishnu. It was placed here 
by a Brahmin of the Josi (Jyotish) class, and the town has since adopted its 
appellation in honour of the idol. Here are also small temples with images of 
Vishnu, Ganesa, Surya, and Nau Devi, or the boat goddess. — (Raper, S$c.) 
Bissenpraag (Vishnu Praydga). — A village or hamlet close to Josimath, 



BHADRINATH.] AND KUMAON. 647 

situated at the junction ot the Alacananda with the Dauli. Lat. 30° 34' N. long. 
79 ? 4 O' E. 70 miles N. from Almora. Notwithstanding this place is situated at 
Hie confluence of two rivers, it is not held in much veneration, and no particular 
ablutions or ceremonies to be performed here, are enjoined in the Shastras. 

Bhadrinath ( Vadarinatha ). — A town and temple situated on the west bank 
of the Alacananda river, in the centre of a valley about four miles in length, and 
one in its greatest breadth. Lat. 30° 43' N. long. 79° 39' E. 80 miles N. from 
Almora in Kumaon. The town is built on the sloping bank of the river, and contains 
only 20 or 30 huts, for the accommodation of the Brahmins and other attendants 
of the temple, dedicated to the Vishnu. The structure of this edifice does not 
correspond with the reputed sanctity of the place, for the support of which 
large sums are annually received, independent of the land revenue appropriated 
for its maintenance. It is built in the form of a cone, with a small cupola, sur- 
mounted by -a square shelving roof of copper, over which is a gilded ball and 
spire. The height of the building is 40 or 50 feet, and the era of its foundation 
too remote to have reached us even by tradition ; it is consequently supposed to 
be the work of some superior being. This specimen of Hindoo divine archi- 
tecture was too weak to resist the shock of an earthquake about 17 years ago, 
which left it in so tottering a condition, that human efforts were judged expe- 
dient to avert its total ruin. The means of procuring these were supplied by 
the Maharatta chief, Dowlet Row Sindia, at whose expense the temple was 
nearly rebuilt. 

At Bhadrinath there is a warm bath supplied by a spring of hot water that 
issues from the mountain, with a thick steam strongly tainted with a sulphurous 
smell, and close to it there is a cold spring. Besides these there are many other 
springs, having each their peculiar virtues and names, which are turned to good 
account by the Brahmins. In going the round of purification, the poor pilgrim 
finds his purse lessen as his sins decrease, and the numerous tolls that are levied 
on this high road to paradise may induce him to think, that what is reputed 
the straightest path is not the cheapest. The principal idol, Bhadrinath, is 
about three feet high, cut in black stone or marble, dressed in a suit of gold and 
silver brocade, the head and hands only being uncovered. His temple has more 
beneficed lands attached to* it than any sacred Hindoo establishment in this part 
of India. In 1808 it was said to possess 700 villages, situated in different parts 
of Gurwal and Kumaon, which are all under the jurisdiction of the high priest, 
who holds a paramount authority, nominally independent of the ruling power. 

The selection for the office of high priest is confined to the castes of Deccany 
Br ahmi ns of the Chauli or Namburi tribes. In former times the situation was a 
permanent one, but after the Nepaulese conquest, the pontificate was put up to 



648 GURWAL [kumaon* 

sale, and disposed of to the highest bidder. The territorial revenue probably 
forms the least part of the riches of this establishment ; for every person who 
pays his homage to the deity is expected to make offerings in proportion tq his 
riches. In return for these oblations, each person receives what is called a 
presad (a little boiled rice), which is distributed with due regard to the amount 
of the offerings. A large establishment of servants of every description is kept 
up, and during the months of pilgrimage, the deity is well clothed, and fares 
sumptuously ; but as soon as the winter commences, the priests take their de- 
parture, until the periodical return of the holy season. The treasures f and 
valuable utensils are buried in a vault under the temple, which was once robbed 
by a few mountaineers, who were afterwards discovered, and put to death. 
The Brahmins, who officiate here, are chiefly from the Deccan, and do pot 
colonize. The number of pilgrims who visit Bhadrinath annually is estimated 
at 50,000, the greater part being religious mendicants and devotees, who come 
from all parts of India. All these people assemble at Hurdwar, and as soon as 
the fair is concluded, take their departure for the sacred fane. Their progress, 
however, is often impeded, but their merit proportionally augmented, by the 
lingering of the winter, and consequent difficulty of access. On the 29th of 
May, 1808, masses of snow 70 feet thick still remained undissolved on the road 
to Bhadrinath, and the tops of the high mountains were covered with snow 
which remains undissolved throughout the year. 

A great majority of Hindoos, who know nothing of Bhadrinath, except from 
books, imagine that many holy persons have retired to this place, where they 
have been living for several thousand years in quiet expectation of better times. 
To pilgrims who come here in expectation of meeting with these personages, a 
cavern is pointed out as the place of their residence, but as the excavation is filled 
up with snow, there is no danger of its inhabitants being disturbed until the 
return of the golden age. — ( Raper, F. Buchanan , #c. 8$c.) 

Man a. — This place stands at the north-eastern extremity of the former 
Gurwal territory, close to Bhadrinath. Lat. 30° 46' N. long. 79° 39' E. In 
1808, Mana consisted of about 150 houses of two stories, built of stone and 
covered with small deal plank. They were, however, only habitable in the 
summer, for the winter season buried them in snow, and compelled the popula- 
tion to migrate to a less rigorous climate. The inhabitants exhibit the Bhqotqa 
figure and countenance. — ( Raper , <$c.) 

THE DISTRICT OF KUMAON (Kumau). 

This was a Hindoo principality of some antiquity, bounding with that of Duti 
on the east, the boundary line being the Cali river. On the west it was separated 



AND kUMAON. 


KUMAON.] 


649 


from Gurwal by the Ramgunga, and extended a considerable way into the plains 
of Bareily, but most of the low country districts had many years ago been ap- 
propriated by the Mogul functionaries from Delhi. The modem district of 
Kumaon, as regulated since the British conquest in 1815, comprehends the 
whole tract of country between the Ganges and Cali, from the* plains to the 
highest pinnacle of the Himalaya, which space includes a large portion of the 
Gurwal province south-east of the Alacananda, while the Cali river on the east 
forms a natural and well defined boundary towards Nepaul. The other geogra- 
phical divisions are Kumaon Proper, Painkhandi, and Bhutant, within the limits 
of which last is the pass of Niti, supposed to have been the earliest and most 
frequented route into Chinese Tartary. The area of the whole may be esti- 
mated at 7000 square miles. 

Kumaon Proper is separated from the Gurwal province by a range of moun- 
tains, in which stands the village of Chiring. Lat. 30° 6' N. After passing this 
chain of hilk the contrast is remarkable. The hills oi Kumaon appear to rise 
in a regular gentle acclivity from their bases, and the soil is of rich earth, giving 
nourishment to fine verdure and extensive forests. 1 The country also divides 
into rather spacious vallies, rendered fertile by tillage, and the cultivation is 
more extended and carried further up the hills than in Gurwal, with a denser 
population. Several villages on the frontier were formerly divided, one half be- 
longing to Gurwal, and the other to Kumaon ; an arrangement that does not 
appear founded in good policy. The vallies are particularly suited for the pro- 
duction of rice, as the numberless mountain streams, descending in every direc- 
tion, enable the cultivator to irrigate the whole of the lower lands, which are 
thereby rendered independent of the seasons. The higher lands are used for 
the cultivation of wheat, barley, and various small grains, which being raised in 
a redundant quantity form an article of traffic with Bhutant. 

There are several passes into Kumaon from the districts of Bareily and Mora- 
dabad, but those leading through Cossipoor and Rooderpoor are considered the 
beat, and are the most frequented. The first leads by Chilkea, where an annual 
fair is held, to which the hill people resort in great numbers ; similar meetings 
also occur at Bhagesur, on the banks of the Cali, on the 10th of January, 9th 
erf February, and 2d of March, each continuing ten days, and were frequented 
by merchants from Bhote and the low countries, who here exchanged their dif- 
ferent commodities. In 1802, the cloths which met with the readiest sale were 
such as had distinct colours on each side, as rose, and white, red and grey, and 
green and light brown. Some European articles of a coarse quality were also 
occasionally in demand, such as knives, scissars, wine glasses, tumblers, spying 
and looking glasses, spectacles, and cheap enamelled watches. The staple ex- 
port* from this southern frontier has always consisted of timber, found in the 
. von. ii, * 4 o 



650 GT7KWAL [kumaon. 

immense forests that skirt the border, where the Saul forests are of great extent, 
and produce some of the best timber of that species in India; Owing to their 
elevated situation, the trees are more free from the heart-strake than those of 
Bengal, and are also less abundantly supplied with sap. In other respects their 
site is objectibnable, as being of such difficult access as to render it necessary to 
convert them into planks on the spot. 

' In the fir forests, about 30 miles N. E. of Cossipoor, soine of tne spars are 
from 20 to 23 inches in diameter, and from 60 to 70 feet clear of the brandies, 
the grain strong, and full of turpentine. These also grow in places almost in- 
accessible, and have to be ccmveyed down a nearly perpendicular height of pOO 
feet: These spars are fit for mizenmasts, topmasts, and topsail yards, and some 
few for lower yards of 800 ton ships, or even lower masts for ships of that si^e. . 
One master builder who examined them declared the Kumaon firs differed 
materially from those of Europe, being much stronger and almost as heavy 
as teak. Rosin, turpentine, Doedwar oil, and hemp of an excellent quality, 
are also procurable among the Kumaon hills. The forests on the banks of 
the Ramgunga river likewise contain firs suitable for the lower masts of 
a 400- ton ship. One of these forests is situated about 20 miles within the 
hills on tjie eastern side of that river, its nearest end being two miles distant, 
but the only practicable passage is the bed of a torrent,’ through which the logs 
must be conveyed from a height of above 2000 feet. Oh the banks of the 
Ramgunga, which has several considerable falls, there are some very fine forests 
of saul trees, but their produce could only be conveyed away by being first cut 
into planks, pipe staves, and pieces of small dimensions. The upper mountains 
produce copper* lead, iron, and the Panar river gold, but there is no mine of con- 
sequence. The parts to the north are cold, but yield pasture for numerous flocks 
of sheep, and in summer much intercourse is carried on with the country sub- 
ject to China, which empire in the Khas dialect is named Hung. 

Viewed from a distance, the towns and villages of Kumaon present a neat 
appearance, but on a nearer approach that impression is removed by the sight 
of the dust and filth that surround them. The houses are usually constructed 
of . large masses of stone, and are roofed with slate. They are all two stories 
high, the lower being appropriated to the cattle, and in shape are narow and 
very long, many of them exposing a front. of 60 or 70 feet The back part of 
the house is entirely shut up ; the front of the upper story has frequently an 
enclosed verandah about three or four feet broad, extending the whole length 
of the front. The roads leading through the villages consist usually of a stone 
causeway, about three feet high and two broad, extending through the centra 
of the street, from which there are small raised paths leading to the upper 
Apartments of the houses, and forming with the central parapet a 



kumaon.] AND KUMAON. 651 

closure fi5r cattle, heaped up with manure and seldom cleaned* The inside of 
their houses corresponds with the exterior, and appears equally ill adapted for 
health or convenience, being low, dark, and unclean. The natives are slender 
in their persons, of middle size, with rather dark complexions. Their dress 
varies but little from that of the low lands, excepting that instead of a turban 
they commonly wear a round cotton cap. All theit apparel is of cotton, al- 
though the plant is an exotic, their native productions being hemp and wool, 
yet fabrics of these last are rarely seen, which marks a striking contrast between 
the Kumaonies and the natives of Gurwal. In their dispositions they are mild, 
and free from any glaring vices, yet they delegate to the females the toils of 
agriculture, while the household affairs are superintended by the men. This 
unnatural division of labour has given rise to polygamy, which is resorted to by 
the lower classes as far as their means extend, with the view of transferring to 
their wives the drudgery of the field.. The use of earthern vessels is unknown 
among them, all their utensils for eating and drinking being composed of wood. 
Domestic animals are more rare than in the low lands, but with the exception 
of the horse, which is wanting, the descriptions are the same. The breed of oxen 
peculiar to these hills is remarkably dwarfish, and generally of a black, brown, 
or red colour. The white species has been introduced from the low country, 
but has not thriven. 

There is reason to believe that all the original and impure tribes of Kumaon 
have been either destroyed or converted, except a very few Jars and Magars in 
Baropathi, a tract separated from Jemlah, under which government these people 
enjoyed full toleration. It has been calculated that there are 6000 famUites of 
Brahmins scattered through Kumaon, who are described as being particularly 
tenacious of caste, living a pure, life, and abstaining from all intercourse, with 
the low tribes ; and it is natural to suppose that so large a body of an enlight- 
ened fraternity hab tended considerably to influence the general manners of the 
hill natives, among whom a degree of effeminacy is perceptible, not charac- 
teristic of an Alpine origin. Their customs, manners, and dress, differ in con- 
sequence from their neighbours, the Gurwallies, over whom they display a 
superior degree of civilization, although the country of the latter is by far the 
most sacred. In feet, during the time of the Kumaon Rajas, the principality 
was wholly under a Brahminical government, principally of the astrologer caste, 
who raised and deposed the chief at pleasure. N.one of these Brahmins are 
aborigines, but the date of their first introduction has never been satisfactorily 
ascertained* The temples of Vaidyanath, Catarmahal, Someswar, and Ping- 
nath, have ail the same construction, and possess well carved images represent- 
ing the Brahminical pantheon under their emblematic forms* Hie Rajpoots form 
the mm numerous class, but all who are poor, except the descendants of Salt- 

4 o 2 



652 GURWAL [kumaow* 

vahan, hold Ihe plough. The Sudra tribes of cultivators are Aheeife, Jauts, 
Lodi, and Chauhan. Near Agra, the Jauts by the other castes are reckoned the 
same as Abeers, although, being there powerful, they call themselves Rajpoots ; 
buj in these mountains they are considered Sudras. It is probable, however, 
that they were all aboriginal impure tribes, admitted by the Brahmins within 
the pale of their communion. 

Owing to the prevalence of the sacerdotal class, the Kumaonies were more 
favoured by the Gorkhas than any other of their conquered subjects, and in the 
neighbourhood of Almora, the lands are still principally possessed by the sacred 
order, who also under the Gorkhas, and indeed at present, filled all the revenue 
departments. In 1810, according to native accounts, the whole rents of\the 
mountains, exclusive of land granted to Brahmins, amounted to 125,000 rupees, 
the whole of which, west of the Cali, was formerly collected by the Raja's offi- 
cers, but after the conquest much was granted to the Gorkha military officers 
for the payment of their troops, and as they received no indemnification for any 
balances, no lenity was shewn in enforcing payment from the zemindars, the 
families of defaulters being frequently sold into slavery for the realiz* t;r »n of 
arrears. 

The Rajas of Kumaon and Gurwal sprung from the same family, some ac- 
count of which will be found under the last named article. ’ Abul Fazel, who, in 
1582, describes the Kumaon mountains, attributes to them the production of a 
great many articles, which probably only passed through them from the north ; 
viz. “ A part of the northern mountains of this soubah is called Kemaon, where 
there are mines of gold, silver, lead, iron, orpiment, and borax. There are also 
found abundance of musk deer, ketass cows, silk worms, falcons of various 
kinds, goats, horses, and plenty of honey.” The seat of government was for- 
merly at Champavati, on the Cali river, south-east from Almora, which latter 
became the modern capital about two centuries ago. The Kumaon possessions 
below the hills were mostly wrested from the Raja by Ali Mahommed, the Ro- 
liilla. In 1790. the Gorkhas having defeated the Kumaon chief, pursued him to 
Almora, where, after another engagement, in which the Gorkhas were again suc- 
cessful, the conquest of the principality was accomplished, and the ruling Brah- 
mins conciliated by bribes and promises. Before the acquisition of the districts 
ceded by the Nabob of Oude, the impression of the Chinese power had been 
gradually pervading the hills, for in 1802, when Mr. Gott was deputed by Sir 
Henry Wellesley to examine the forests of Kumaon, the Gorkha commander 
expressed great apprehension that his arrival would be communicated to the 
Emperor of China, who had threatened to dethrone the Nepaul Raja, if he per- 
mitted Europeans to explore his country. 

In 1815, this territory was acquired by the British government after a short 



kumaon.] AND KUMAON. 653 

and spirited campaign, when its limits were extended to the westward by the 
annexation of a portion of Gunval east of the Alacananda and Ganges, which 
last was estimated at 37,000 Furmckabad rupees per annum, at a fair and 
moderate assessment, exclusive of the variable imposts and customs. With 
•respect to Kumaon Proper, considerable difficulty was experienced in ascertain- 
ing its real resources, owing to the loss of records and other causes incidental 
to the confusion in which the country had been involved for many years prior 
to the expulsion of the Gorkhas. It was the practice of that people, and neces- 
sarily continued in the outset of the British administration, to realize a great 
portion of the collections through the agency of certain head men styled Sean- 
nas, Kuddums, Perdhaums, and Moherdums, according to their rank and the 
number of villages undei iheir controul. With these persons the Nepaul go- 
vernment was accustomed to engage for the. gross revenues, leaving the details 
of <H)iloctioH to them, and holding them responsible for the punctual completion 
of all the instalments. In 1815, the following was the estimated gross revenue 
of the pergunnahs described below : viz. 

Estimated Revenue. 


The pergunnah of Keta borders on Rohilcund, and includes 
most of the forest lands in which a tax is levied on bam- 
boos; khut, and elephants 11,342 

Pergunnah of Pulda, Kote, &c. These pergunnahs are situ- 
ated to the southward of Almora, towards the district of 
Moradabad 14,050 


Pergunnah Cali, situated to the south-east, forming the 
eastern boundary upon the line of the Sarda river . . . 24,475 

Palee pergunnah, situated to the west of Almora, and sepa- 
rating Kumaon Proper from Gurwal 26,500 

Pergunnahs Burramund ul, including the town of Almora . 20,412 

Pergunnahs of Shar, &c. These are situated to the south of 
the snowy mountains forming the boundary . . . . 43,100 

149,510 

Estimated revenue arising from a tax on bamboos, &c. from 

the forest 3,150 

Ditto on the manufacture of khut or terra japonica . . . 2,100 

Ditto for certain resumed fees paid to the Canongoes, &c. . 5,000 

Total, in hill rupees . . 161,960 
Deduct 41,960 


Estimate, in?Bareily rupees 


120,000 



GURWAL 


654 


[SOlCAOIfi 


It had been usual for the Bhooteas to pay their revenues one half in money, 
and one half in merchandize, consisting of musk, saffron, nerbessee, cow-tails, 
chowries, hawks; coarse woollens, hill ponies, and sundry drugs procured in 
th^ir traffic with Tibet; but the valuation at which it was usual to receive 
these articles greatly exceeded their real price. The consequence was, that 
under the Gorkhas they were most frequently distributed among the troops in 
lieu of pay, or used by the chiefs in their own households. As no advantage, 
however, was to be gained by receiving their commodities on the part of 
the British government, it was thought preferable to allow a large deduction 
to the Bhootea zemindars, to induce them to make their payments in cash. 
The money current in the province is a small silver Coin named the tamashee, 
four of which make a rupee of 12 annas value, and it is in this coin that the 
revenue is generally paid. There never was any regular mint in Kuxpaqn, 
copper pice were sometimes struck, but the silver was coined at Serinagur, or 
brought down from Catmandoo 

Jaghires and rent-free lands, especially for religious purposes, were found to 
be* extremely numerous, two entire pergunnahs being so appropriated, Kuttolee 
for the temple of Bhadrinath, and Mysoree for Kedarnath ; the first yieldinjg 
1564, and the latter 1600 Gorkha rupees. Besides these, there were periodicil 
distributions of money for pious and charitable purposes, which could not be 
discontinued without exciting a feeling prejudicial to the reputation enjoyed 
by the British government, of strictly respecting the rights, privileges, and re- 
ligious institutions of every class of their native subjects. Most of the above 
appropriations were in consequence confirmed, no claims being rejected, ex- 
cepting such as rested on grounds of very questionable validity. It was, how- 
ever, thought most eligible to endeavour to commute the grants of land for 
regular payments in money, an arrangement equally advantageous to the grantees 
and convenient to the government. It was also determined that no immediate 
alteration should be made in the existing arrangements for working the mines, 
and to suspend any measure for improving their value. In" 1816, those in the 
pergunnahs of Gungolee were let for one year at 850 rupees, and some others 
yielded 1850, making a total of 2,700 rupees from the copper mines. No lead 
mines were then worked, and the receipts from those of iron had been compre- 
hended in the land revenue. The sayer and customs, in 1815, left a net produce 
of 7235 rupees, but being farmed in 1816, they yielded 10,825 rupees, exclusive 
of Almora, the capital, estimated at 1000 rupees more. These collections were 
made on the same principles and at the same rates as had been customary under 
former governments, neither the articles on which the duties were imposed, not 
the ratio of these duties, being considered in any respect objectionable, with the 
exception of a tax on the sale of children, which, as well as the trafl^c from which 



KMCAoir.] AND KUMAON. 655 

i| sprung wis immediately abolished. These arrangements being completed, 
the administration of the revenue was placed under the general superintendance 
of the Board of Commissioners for the upper provinces, sincq which it has been 
regularly liquidated, and in many instances paid in advance. 

Hie revenue settlement for the year 1815-16 was, for Kumaon 85,746 rupees. 

Ditto for the annexed pergunnahs of Gurwal * 37,614 

Total 123,360 

The territory above'described, has, ever since its occupation by the British, 
enjoyed uninterrupted tranquillity, a fact which may be referred tp as a proof 
not only of the orderly and peaceable habits of the people, but also their general 
satisfaction with the change of rulers. In 1815 and 1816, murder was a crime 
wholly unknown, and theft and robbery were of rare occurrence, a remark which, 
also applies to all offences, the ultimate cognizance of which would, by the regu- 
lations, rest with the court of circuit. In fact, the number of offences is so 
small as to render the criminal police an object of secondary importance. Since 
the introduction of the British government, the number of persons confinedJor 
criminal offences has never exceeded 12, the greater proportion of whom have 
always been natives of the plains. In November/ 1816, the number of prisoners 
was only seven, of whom four were natives of the low countries. During the 
Gorkha sway the punishment of petty offences* in endless and vexatious variety, 
was made a source of revenue, exacted in the shape of fines, and farmed out m 
the different divisions to the best bidder. Under the circumstances detailed 
above, the introduction of the Bengal criminal code would be altogether prema- 
ture, and the repugnance of the hill natives to descend to the plains as witnesses 
or prosecutors is such, that their attendance could only be enforced while the 
dry season lasted. In 1816, grain was so cheap that wheat was selling in the 
interior of Gurwal at the rate of two and a half maunds per rupee, while, on 
account of the difficulty and expense of transportation*, the market price of 
grain of a similar quality at a few miles distance bore an advance of more than 
200 per cent. 

Up to the conclusion of 1816, the Bengal government rather discouraged any 
attempt to open a trade with Tartary, through the Himalaya range of moun- 
tains, being apprehensive lest, in the state of affairs on the Lassa frontier, the 
jealousy of the Chinese might be excited by any appearance of augmented* com* 
munication, which apprehensions, have since been discovered to have been 
unfounded, and measures have in consequence been adopted for promoting the 
intercourse. A portion of the lands of Kumaon lying near the base of the Hi- 
malaya are occupied by Bhooteas, who are understood also to possess lands on 



656 GURWAL [baghesur. 

the opposite side of the mountains, held either directly from the government of 
China, or from its tributary states. These persons have always shewn a very 
favourable disposition towards their European protectors, and settlements for 
the tracts they occupy to the south of the snowy mountains were made in 1816, 
by Mr. Trail, the commissioner in Kumaon. — ( Rapcr , Trail , Gott, Gardner f 
Public MS . Documents , F. Buchanan , &;c. 8$c. §c.) 

Almora. — The modern capital of Kumaon, built oh the ridge of a mountain" 
5792 feet above the level of the sea, 90 miles N. by E. from the city of Bareily. 
Lat. 29° 35' N. long. 79° 44' E. The houses of this place, about 1000 in number, 
are much scattered, extending down the slope of the mountain On each side. 
To the southward is the fortress of Salmandi, constructed of stone. The\in- 
habitants are mostly foreigners, the descendants of emigrants from the lowlands. 

Almora, according to native accounts, was built by Raja Ram Chandra, in the 
reign of the Emperor Acber, one of whose officers attacked it and was defeated, 
and the Raja, after this success, advancing into the plain, obtained a jaghire 140 
miles long and 10 broad, then overgrown with woods, which he settled with 
inhabitants and brought under cultivation. This chief afterwards became a 
favourite with the Delhi sovereign, who granted him permission to establish a 
mint, and coin money in the royal name and Persian character. It was acquired 
by the Gorkhas about 1790, and they in their turn were expelled by the British 
in 1815. The action which decided the fate of Almora was fought under pecu- 
liar circumstances with reference to the field of battle. Before the fight the 
British detachment occupied a ridge 5530 feet high, while the loftiest post of the 
enemy was still more elevated, being 6475 feet above the level of the sea. The 
contending armies were separated by a river flowing at the base, where the ford 
was no less than 3757 feet below Almora, and to this ford it was necessary for 
the British troops to descend, before ascending again to commence the attack. 
The surrounding country was so much injured by having been the scene of mili- 
tary operations, that, in the subsequent revenue arrangements, it was found 
expedient to make but a light assessment on the tracts that had suffered* especi- 
ally on the pergunnah in which Almora is situated. — ( Raper , F. Buchanan f, Public 
MS. Documents , &;c. 8$c.) 

Muhragaon. — A small town in the Kumaon district,, 16 miles S. S, W. from 
Almora. Lat. 29° 25' N. long. 79° 35' E. 

Chumpwut ( Chatnpavati ). — This was the ancient capital of the Kumaon prin- 
cipality, and is said still to contain from 2 to 300 houses. Lat 29° 28' N« Ionic* 
79° 57' E. 16 miles S. E. from Almora* In Sanscrit it is named. Kunnach&L and 
sometimes, from its vicinity to the Cali river, Cali Kumaon. 

Baghesur ( Bhagiswara ). — This place is situated to the westward of the Cali 



AND KUMAON. 


ftAMOTEB.] 


657 


branch of the Goggra nver, 22 miles N. N. E. from Almora. Lat, 29° 52' N. 
long, 79° 53' E. Fairs are held here three times in the year, and are attended 
by traders from the low country . — ( Gott , $c.) 

Painichandt. — A subdivision of the British district of Kumaon, forming 
part of the cessions from Nepaul in 1815, and situated between the 30th and 
31st degrees of north latitude. The surface is extremely mountainous and pre-‘ 
cipitous, abounding with chasms and mountain streams. The high and snowy 
peak of Ramnee, visible from Bareily, is said to be 22,700 feet above the level of 
the ocean* In this rugged tract wild hogs, deer, bears, and pheasants are found, 
especially among the Tujpisi range of woody mountains. The forests contain 
fir, cedar, pine, sycamore, horse chesnut, walnut, and yew trees. Some of the 
cedars are of enormous dimensions, instanceshaving occurred of trees measuring 
27 feet in circumference, four feet from the ground, with a height of 180 feet. 
Service trees are also found here bearing much larger fruit than those of Eng- 
land. Hemp grows to the height of 10 and 12 feet, and, when thinly sown, with 
thick stems, sending out side branches, exhibiting a state of luxuriance rarely 
seen elsewhere. In Painkhandi there is also found a common plant resembling . 
butchers broom, said to be the Sebburua, from which the mountaineers make a 
paper, sold at Serinagur and Almora, and which from thence finds it way into 
Hindostan, where the native bankers use it in preference for their bills of ex- 
change, as the ink does not sink further into its substance than is necessary to 
retain the writing. It is likewise stronger than other paper, and does not rea- 
dily absorb water. Birch bark is likewise used by the natives to write on, and 
it is sent to Lucknow, where it is used for the inner covering of Hookah snakes. 

This pergunnah contains 22 villages, of which 10 are situated among the 
snowy mountains, and are solely inhabited by Bhoteas. Under the Nepaulese, 
this division* in 1813, was assessed at 4051 Gorkha rupees, half paid in money 
and half in merchandize at a fixed and specified price. In 1816, after its acqui- 
sition by the British, a lease was granted in the first instance to the Seannas or 
' bead men for 3500 Gorkha rupees, with the usual agreement in regard to money 
. and merchandize. On the payment by the Seannas at Serinagur of the first in- 
atalment, it was found that for many of the articles given in there was no sale 
Wbateyer, while of the others the market price was far below the rates specified 
in the engagement. Under these circumstances the Seannas were directed to 
pay, in the Ue\i of half in merchandize, one-third of its amount in money, (equi- 
valent to 437 Furruckabad rupees), the other two thirds being granted as a 
deduction to compensate for the probable loss on the sale. — (Moor croft, Public 
JUS* j Documents, $c.) 

j Ra»£N£j;,-~A remarkable snowy peak visible from Bareily, estimated to be 
* iroi* tu * * 



GURWAL 


658 


[bhxjtakt. 


22,768 feet above the level of the ocean. Lat. 30° 2(f N. long. 79° 38' E. 50 
miles north from Almora. 

Bhutant. — Besides the countries which we call Tibet and Bootan, the 
Bhooteas, everywhere between the Cali and the Teesta, occupy the Alpine 
region adjacent to the snowy peaks of Himalaya, on both sides of the mountains, 
which tract is by the natives of the south termed Bhote, and the inhabitants 
Bhooteas. In so extended a region it is probable there exists a great variety of 
customs and dialects, even among those who inhabit the southern face of Hima~ 
laya,but the country having been but partially explored, little is known respecting 
them. According to native accounts, the Bhooteas, at least the greater pant of 
those in Tibet, neglect agriculture, chiefly pursuing commerce and a life\ of 
monkish austerity ; but occasionally and unwillingly they wield the sword. The 
principal support of the country is its mines and numerous flocks of sheep, goa^s, 
and cattle, the quantity of grain raised being quite inconsiderable, but a very 
little suffices for so scanty a population , indeed, the highest classes of genuine 
Bhooteas are said to confine their attention entirely to religion, commerce, and 
arms, the first predominating. With respect to their physical appearance, it has 
been remarked by Dr. Francis Buchanan, that all the Bhooteas he saw at Cat* 
mandoo, not only from the Nepaul territories but from the. elevated regions of 
Mustung, Kuti, Lassa, and Digarcheh, or Teshoo Loomboo, were all as black as 
the natives of Canton or Ava. 

The foregoing observations apply to the Bhootea nation in general, but the 
particular tract here described lies between the pergunnah of Painkhandi on 
the south and the Himalaya mountains on the north, having the Cali and Dauli 
rivers for its eastern and western boundaries. The name Bfiutant is retained to 
distinguish it from the country of the Deb Raja, so long known by the designa- 
tion of Bootan. The country of Bhote in this direction may be said to commence 
at the village of Jelam (lat. 30° 38' N. long. 79° 51 E.), as the inhabitants are 
able to continue in their houses throughout the whole year at the villages below. 
After passing Jelam upwards, all access and passage is prevented by the snow 
from October to May, during which interval the higher Bhootea villages are en* 
tirely deserted. On the 27th June, 1818, spring had just commenced in this 
quarter, where the productions of the lower hills are replaced by cypress, hazel, 
and birch trees ; the ’ bushes consisting principally of gooseberry! currant, a 
dwarf species of cypress and juniper, with dog roses red and white. The only 
grains that ripen are, papera (peculiar to Bhote and resembling French wheat), 
china (panicum miliaceum), and awa and jawa, two kinds of barley. As the 
spots adapted for cultivation in Bhutant are few, the villages are necessarily 
gmch dispersed and their size small. 



BHUTANTi] AND KUMAON. 659 

The birds and quadrupeds peculiar to Bhote generally are mostly found in this 
'region* These consist of musk deer, the chamois, brown marmots, and bharals (the 
oris ammon). The animal last mentioned is about the height of an antelope, 
but much stouter in its make, its colour dark grey, with black and white points, 
and wire-haired. Its coat is very thick, and in consequence much prized, and it 
is also remarkable for the extraordinary, size of its horns. Besides these there 
are bears, some black, but mostly white, which last are said, like their brethren 
of the polar regions, to be carnivorous. The birds are blue pheasants, ptar mi - 
gans, black and white pigeons, rooks with bright red legs, hawks, falcons, and 
eagles. There are also some varieties ,of small birds ; but few insects are to be 
seen. The climate of Bhutant is warmer than might have been expected from 
its elevation. At Gamsali, in lat. 30° 44 N. long. 79° 54' E. about the end of 
June, Fahrenheit’s thermometer varied in the shade during the hottest part of 
the day from 60° to 75°, and at day Jight from 45° to 50°; the days generally 
fine, and the sun visible through almost his whole course. The quantity of rain 
that then fell at Gamsali was remarkably small, only four slight showers having 
occurred during a fortnight, while in the hills below it had been pouring inces- 
santly. After the middle of August, none of the inhabitants are suffered to 
ascend the tops of the surrounding mountains, or to use fire-arms in the neigh- 
bourhood of the villages, such incidents being known from experience to occasion 
a fall of snow from above and a frost below, both tending to injure the ripening 
crops. 

Prior to the conquest of Northern Hindostan by the British in 1815, this tract 
was tributary to the Gorkhas, who levied such exorbitant contributions from the 
inhabitants, and otherwise oppressed them so much, that the scanty population 
was annually decreasing. . In addition to their domestic miseries they were ex- 
posed from without to the depredations of their neighbours the Jowaries, who 
every year made a sweep among their flocks and cattle, and frequently carried 
off their children into slavery. The genuine Bhooteashere are certainly of Tartar 
origin, aryl such is their own opinion. Indeed so recent does the migration of 
the inhabitants of Niti appear to be, that they still enjoy, as being Tartars, an 
immunity from all duties paid by other traders to the Chinese Tartar government 
of Tibet. In language and personal appearance there is also a striking resem- 
blance, and although they no longer intermarry, yet the Bhooteas do not hesitate 
to eat and drink with the Tartars. Their religions are nearly the same, except 
that the Bhooteas have adopted several Hindoo superstitions, yet still retaining 
great veneration for the lamas. Until the Gorkha conquest, bulls and oxen 
were annually sacrificed in great numbers, but since that event buffaloes and the 
chowry cattle have been substituted. The Bhooteas, however, by the other 

4*8 



GURWAL 


660 


[MAbAnt* 


hill tribes are still considered cow killers, and, as such, outcasts of the worst 
description. — (Trail, F. Buchanan , §c. §c.) 

Malari. — Although this is the largest village along the Niti road from Northern 
Hindostan into Tibet, yet in 1818 it contained only 40 houses, built of rough 
stones cemented with clay and mixed with wood, and from one to four stories in 
height, the lowest being usually abandoned to the cattle. The upper story 
generally projects beyond the lower, in consequence of having a wooden veranda* 
constructed of fir planks, and ornamented with flowers and figures of Hindoo 
deities, among whom Ganesa is conspicuous. Lat. 30° 41' N. long. 79° 56'E. 
The site of Malari is in the eastern angle of a triangular plain, about amilelon 
each face, bounded on two sides by streams, and on the other by steep hills, 
which in the month of June are covered with snow, thin on their projecting 
parts, and deep in the ravines. The flat land in the neighbourhood is sown with 
the panicum miliaceum, and the fields are enclosed with stone fences and hedges, 
exhibiting a very neat appearance, but the proportion of the cultivated to the 
waste land is a very small fraction. 

The inhabitants of Malari call themselves Rajpoots, but pay little or no atten- 
tion to caste ; the poor classes on this frontier eating raw meat seasoned with a 
little pepper or salt. Both sexes are rather of low stature, but not ill made; 
with a mixture of the Tartar and Hindoo countenance, and are dressed in coarse 
woollens, the produce of their flocks, and woven by their females, who are very 
expert and industrious. With a very simple apparatus, one of these females will 
in five days weave a piece of cloth 15 cubits long and 18 inches broad, called a 
pankhi ; some of these are flat, but others are twilled and very strong. When 
Mr. Moorcroft passed this way in 1812, the females seemed greatly to' exceed 
the males in number, which was partly accounted for by the compulsory levies 
made by the Gorkhas to fill the ranks of their armies, and partly to their being 
engaged in the traffic of salt and grain between the higher and lower countries. 
Their houses contain few articles of furniture except benches and cooking 
utensils, yet the women possess ornaments of considerable value. Both sexes 
are filthy in their persons, and overrun with vermin. Besides the fear of exciting , 
the cupidity of the Gorkhas by any display of superfluities, the circumstance of 4 
their only inhabiting this tract from about the 24th of May to the 24th of Sep- 
tember would prevent their bringing any furniture here that could be dispensed 
with: After the date last mentioned, the inhabitants of Malari and its vicinity 
migrate to the villages of Tapoban, Baragaon, and other places to the norlh^earit 
ofJorimath. ' 

These people, from living part of the year in one country and part in another, 
are called Dobasas, and also Marchas, the first a well-known name at Madras 



W*x$ AND KUMAON. 661 

(Dobash), the latter approaching to that of the ancient borderers of the English 
rad Scottish frontier* They carry on a considerable trade with the Undes, be- 
yond the Himalaya, and also with the lower parts of the hills. From the first 
they procure borax and salt, which they carry south, and return with grain to 
Bhutant; but the trade can only be carried on during a short portion of the 
year. The merchandize is laden on goats and sheep, which feed as they go, and 
are easily driven by few persons, so that the charges of transportation are not 
great; the total amount, however, is comparatively insignificant. The goats 
used in this traffic are bred in the country, and migrate twice each year. They 
are short legged, of a strong compact form, and travel about 10 miles a day over 
extremely rugged and difficult roads. The food of the wealthy inhabitants con* 
aists principally of boiled rice and goat’s flesh in the morning, and at night cakes 
made of wheaten flour beaten with water, and seasoned with salt and clarified 
butter; curds and the fresh milk of goats and sheep are also used on these occa- 
sions. Wheaten flour is scarcely ever tasted by the poor, whose subsistence 
is the coarsest and most common grains, to which, when attainable, they add 
raw flesh. Wheat is but little cultivated, although it grows to a good height near 
Josimath, only 18 miles to the south-west; but various small grains and pulses 
are raised in the neighbourhood. Slaves are much employed in agriculture, and 
used to be purchased here by the Gorkhas . — ( Moor croft. Trail , &$c.) 

Nm (or Liti ). — The Niti ghaut or pass, leading from Northern Hindostan to 
Tibet, lies along the banks of the Dauli, which, in respect to size and length of 
course, may be considered the principal branch of the Ganges. The mountains on 
either side are generally composed of rocks scarped perpendicularly, the chasma 
in some parts approaching so close as to admit of their being crossed on wooden 
scaffoldings, supported from cragg to cragg. When this is not practicable it is 
necessary to climb the mountains, where,, in one instance, to gain a horizontal 
distance of about 280 yards, forming the base of a triangle, one mile must first 
be ascended and another descended. The village of Niti stands at the base of 
a stnall range of hills which defend it from the north and west. Lat. 30° 47' N. 
long. 70° 66' E. A gorge between the western hills and those to the south 
admits the Niti river ; but the valley is closed up, about a mile to the east, by 
an ascent covered with birch trees, and leading to many gorges and ridges of a 
high mountain topped with snow. In front of the town, towards the river, are 
small flats, descending by steps, which are cultivated. The town, following the 
line of the base of the rocks, was originally a crescent, but many of the houses 
have been deserted and unroofed; Owing to its great elevation, persons from die 
low countries experience at Niti a difficulty of breathing. In the beginning of 
Jfmpe die thermometer ranges from 40° to 60° in the morning, to 70° rad 80° in the 



662 GURWAL AND KUMAON. [mi. 

middle of the day, with rain and slight snow at night. At that time of the year 
the birch trees and rose bu&hes are just bursting into leaf, the furze coming into 
blossom, and the barley and other grains sown : vegetable life, on the return of 
th$ warm season is 'here called rapidly into action, after having had its vital 
powers so long torpid and suspended. 

The changes of the temperature of the atmosphere at Niti are very sudden 
and violent, occasioning colds and fevers to the inhabitants as well as strangers. 
The cold of the evening commences so early as 3 p. m. about which hour the 
flying clouds become murky and stationary, envelope the tops of the mountains, 
and roll down their sides, discharging their contents in the form Of snow oh the 
highest and rain on the. lower ones. Lightning and thunder rarely occur Abut 
a glow of clear-coloured light overhangs the summits of the snow-covered peaks 
in the darkest nights. In the beginning, of June, in the morning, the summits 
of the highest mountains are covered with snow, about noon the ridges between 
the ravines are cleared, but it remains in the clefts and gorges. Between 3 p. m. 
and next morning, the mountain resumes its robe of white, which process of 
deposition and dissolution goes on during the warm months. When the cold 
season sets in, the mountaineers are obliged to quit their habitations, and leave 
them to such wild animals as prefer them to glens and caverns. The whole sur- 
face of ' the vallies as well as of the mountains is then covered with snow, which 
/in some part melts under the influence of the heat and rain, but in others con- 
tinues unchanged. To this mass of melting snow many of the large rivers are 
indebted for their tributary waters, which pour down in numberless torrents and 
rivulets, and are the real sources of the Ganges. In 1818, Captain Webb, under 
the character of an European merchant, endeavoured to open a commercial inter- 
course with Deba, the nearest Chinese post to Niti, in hopes of being permitted 
to advance to the banks of the Sutuleje, only about 15 miles distance to the north, 
where, in the rear of the great Himalaya range, many interesting observations 
might have been made. All his attempts, however, although conducted with 
his usual dexterity, were baffled by the invincible obstinacy of that jealous 
people, the chain of authority appearing to stretch with unbroken strength from 
Pekin to this elevated and secluded station. By a mean of four barometers he 
found the crest of the Niti ghaut to be 16,814 feet above the level of tin sea; 
the valley of the Sutuleje he estimated at 14,924 feet.— f Moorcroft, Trail, WM, 



THE KINGDOM OF NEPAUL. 

(nepala.) 


Although greatly curtailed of its recent usurpations to the east and west, this 
kingdom still remains one of the largest arid most compact independent sove- 
reignties of modem Hindostan. To the north it is separated from Tibet by the 
Himalaya mountains ; on the south it is bounded by the British territories in the 
provinces of Delhi, Oude, Bahar, and Bengal, with the exception of about fiQ 
miles belonging to the Nabob of Oude which intervene ; to the east the Ne- 
paul territories are separated from those of the British by the river Mitchee, 
from whence to the Himalaya mountains they are bounded by the principality 
of Sikkim, which extends north to the Chinese frontier ; to the west the limits 
are accurately defined by the course of the Cali (the western branch of the Gog- 
gra), beyond which is the British district of Kumaon. The limits above as- 
signed describe the kingdom in its greatest dimensions, but a very small portion 
(the valley) has any claim to the peculiar name of Nepaul, the rest being an 
aggregate of conquests, obtained within the last sixty years, from a great nfany 
petty hill states, and kept under by the predominant power of the Gorkhas. 
The whole are mostly situated between the 27th and 31st degrees of north lati- 
tude, and in extreme length may be estimated at 460 miles, by 115 miles the 
average breadth. The principal modem territorial subdivisions are the follow- 
ing, viz. — 

1. Nepaul Proper. 6. Khatang. 

2. Country of the 24 Rajas. 7. Chayenpoor. 

3. Country of the 22 Rajas. 8. Saptari. 

4. Muckwanpoor. 9. Morung. 

5. Kirauts. 

, Further local details of these districts will be found under the respective 
heads, the observations which immediately follow having reference to the Ne- 
paulese dominions generally, and as these, in their utmost dimensions, compre- 
hend nearly two-thirds of Northern Hindostan, the geographical and physical 



664 NEPAtJL. 

details may be considered as applicable to the whole of that region. At present, 
in consequence of our possessing the mountainous tract west of the Cali, and the 
protection afforded to the Sikkim Raja, the Gorkha dominions exhibit the form 
of Sl parallelogram, three sides of which are in immediate contact with the 
British territories, while the fourth is bounded by the Himalaya chain and empire 
of China. 

The lowest belt of the Nepaul dominions is a part of the great plain of Hin* 
dostan. In a few places the British territories redch to the base of the Himalaya 
mountains, which bound the great plain to the north ; but in most parts /the 
Gorkha possessions extend about 20 miles into the plains. Bounding this low 
country, or terriani, to the north, is a region nearly of the same width, con- 
sisting of small hills which rise gradually towards the north, and watered f>y 
many streams that spring from the southern faces of the first lofty mountains, $a 
which these hills gradually unite. The channels of these rivers or torrents, even 
when they have no connection with the high mountains, are filled with fragments 
of granite and sliistose mica ; but the hills themselves are generally composed 
of clay intermixed with various proportions of sand, mica, and gravel. The 
lower part of these hills, and some of the adjacent plains, are the grand site <?f 
the saul forests, among which are many sissoo and toon trees. Higher up, the 
hills are covered with a vast variety of trees, and in the hills of the north are 
many pines, and an abundance of the mimosa, from which the catechu is made. 
In these woods there are also a great number of birds, such as parrots and para- 
keets, which are tamed by the natives on account of their singing or imitating 
the human voice. Petty dealers come from the low countries, purchase these 
birds, and disperse them throughout Bengal to the infinite annoyance of its 
European invaders. 

In several places these low hills are separated from the high mountains byfine 
rallies of some length, but considerably elevated above the level of Hindostan 
Proper. In the country west from the Ganges, these vallies . are called by the 
generic name of doon, analogous to the Scottish word strath; but towards the 
east the term is unknown, although such vallies are of frequent occurrence. 
These doons or straths are tolerably well cultivated, but among the spurs and 
ridges of the hills there are many narrow vallies or glens, which, as well as the 
adjacent hills, possess a rich soil, yet are totally neglected. A few straggling 
villages, however, are scattered throughout the woods, especially in the higher 
parts, where the inhabitants cultivate cotton, rice, and other articles, with the 
hoe, after having cleared away part of the forest. The chief reason of the de- 
serted state of this part of the country seems to be its extreme unhe althin ess , 
which in all probability depends on the cultivation, for Vijapur Chaitra. and 



NEPAUL. 665 

some other places of this division, having been well cleared, are reckoned 
sufficiently healthy. 

On arriving at what may be called the mountains, although they are not se- 
parated from the low hills by any distinct boundary, a very elevated region is 
reached, consisting of one mountain heaped on another, rising to great height, 
so that when any fail happens in winter, their summits for a short time are co- 
vered with snow. The inhabited -vallies between these are in general very nar- 
row, and are of various degrees of elevation, probably from 3000 to 6000 feet 
of perpendicular height above the plains of Bengal. The temperature under 
these, circumstances of course differs also, so that while some of them abound 
with rattans and bamboos, both of enormous dimensions, others produce only 
oaks and pines ; some ripen the pine apple and sugar cane, others produce only 
barley, millet, and similar grains. As the periodical rains extend to the Nepaul 
valley, and tracts similarly situated, the country is not favourable for most kinds 
of fruit, the heats of spring not being sufficient to bring them to maturity before 
the rainy season begins. Peaches grow wild by every rill, but one side of the 
fruit is rotted by the rain, while the other is still green. There are vines, but 
without shelter from the rains the fruit will always be bad. Two kinds of fruit, 
however, come to the utmost perfection, the pine apple in the warmer vallies is 
uncommonly fine, and the orange, as it ripens in winter, is nowhere better. 

Owing to the abundance of rain in the warm season, the country, considering 
its inequality of surface, is very productive of grain. Wherever land can be 
levelled into terraces, however narrow, it is excellently suited for transplanted 
rice, which ripens after the rains have ceased, so that the harvest is never in- 
jured, and as most of the terraces can be supplied with water at pleasure from 
springs, the crops are almost certain. In some parts, the same land gives a 
winter crop of wheat and barley, but in most parts this species of tillage is 
better avoided. Where the land is too steep for terraces, it is generally culti- 
vated after fallows with the hoe, and produces rice sown broadcast, maize, cot- 
ton, three kinds of pulse, a kind of mustard, manjeet or Indian madder, wheat. 
Barley, and sugar cane. Besides these, a most valuable article of cultivation in 
these mountainous parts is a laige species of cardamom, and in the country 
between Nepaul Proper and the Cali, ginger is a valuable production, but on 
the whole, one half of the cultivation among the mountains may be *aid to con- 
sist of transplanted rice. The mountain pasture, ‘'although not so harsh and 
watery as that of the low country, is by no means good, yet considerable flocks 
of sheep are fed, especially by the Gurung and Limboo tribes. In winter they 
refine t6 the lower mountains and vallies, but in summer they climb the Alpine 
regions, which bound the country to the north, and nourish their flocks on the 
you n* 4u 



NEPAUL. 


666 

herbage of sortie extensive tracts in the vicinity of the regions perpetually fro- 
zen, but which tracts in winter are deeply covered with snow. The sheep which 
these people possess, named bharals, kre of considerable size, with fine wool, 
but there is also another species of sheep which is never sent to the' Alpine pas- 
tures. The cattle of the ox kind resemble those of the low countries, and are 
not numerous. Buffaloes are brought from the plains and fattened for slaughter, 
but are not bred, which is also the case with hogs and goats, although thecountry 
seems so admirably adapted for both. Horses are imported from Tibet, none 
being bred south of the Himalaya, which is also the case with the chowry 
cattle, or bos grunniens, and the goat which produces the shawl wool. (The 
frigid regions are the constant abode of two of the finest birds that are knoVn, 
the manal (meleagris satyra), and the damphiya (phasianus impeyanus), and ilso 
the chakoor (perdix rufa) or fire eater, so named from its pecking at sparks \ of 
fire. 

This mountainous region consists in many parts of granite, and corftains much 
iron, lead, and. copper, with some zinc, and a little gold found in the channels 
of some rivers. The copper mines are quite superficial, the ore being dug from* 
trenches entirely open above, so that the workmen cannot act in the rainy sea- 
son. Each mine has certain families attached to ti, who appear to have a pro- 
perty in it, but as the Raja shares with them, they are entirely at the discretibn 
of his officers. The iron ore is also found near the surface, and the mines are. 
subject to the same regulations as those of copper, except that the same persons 
dig and smelt, and are allowed one-third of the whole produce, while the Raja 
and superintendant each receive as much. Mines of sulphur are said to be 
numerous, but little is known respecting them. Corundum of the compact 
kind, such as is found in the western provinces under the Bengal Presidency, is* 
procured in great quantities on the hills of Isma and Mussikot, but that which 
is most esteemed at Catmandoo is said to come from Tibet. 

The valley of Nepaul Proper is the largest in the Gorkha dominions, yet in 
this elevated plain there is not naturally a single stone of any considerable size 
The .whole, so far as man has penetrated, consists of alluvial matter covered by 
soil. In some places the alluvial matter consists of beds of fine gravel and 
sand, much of which is micaceous ; but a large proportion of the alluvial matter 
consists of a. blackish substance resembling clay, and probably of a vegetable 
origin, with which a kind of the blue martial earth is found mixed. Hie greater 
part of the mountains that enclose the valley of Nepaul consist of grey granite, 
of which the surface is very much decayed wherever it has been exposed to the 
air. The. stone usually employed for building in Nepaul, is a rock containing 
much lime, but so impregnated with other matters, that although it effervesces 



NEPAUL. 667 

strongly with acids, and falls to pieces in a sufficient quantity of these liquids, 
yet by calcination it cannot be reduced to quick lime fit for use. The latter is 
consequently so scarce that clay is the only mortar used by the natives. The 
surface of these mountainous regions is copiously watered by springs, and the 
vegetable productions are remarkable for stateliness, beauty, and variety. Except 
near the very summits,. the trees are uncommonly large, and everywhere and 
at all seasons the earth abounds with the most beautiful flowers, partly resembling 
those of India, .but still more those of Europe. The timber trees consist of 
various oaks, pines, walnut, chesnut, hornbeam, Weymouth pine, and common 
spruce fir, but the greater part are of little value, owing to the inaccessible 
•nature of the country. 

With respect to the breadth of this mountainous belt, there is reason to believe, 
from the observations of Colonel Crawfurd, that immediately north and east of 
Catmandoo, the horizontal direct extent across may be from 30 to 40 miles ; but 
further west the breadth is probably greater. The alpine region belonging to 
the Gorkhas, which bounds the mountainous district on the north, is probably of 
nearly equal extent, that is to say, over a space of 30 or 40 miles from north to 
south, imminent peaks are scattered covered with perpetual snow, before the 
passes are reached where the Tibet boundaries commence, and where the whole 
country is subject to everlasting winter. Between these scattered peaks are 
narrow vallies, some of which admit of cultivation, and being of the same ele- 
vation from the plains with the higher parts of the third region last alluded to* 
are capable of yielding similar productions. By far the greatest portion of this 
fourth and alpine region consists of immense rucks rising into sharp peaks and 
tremendous precipices, covered with perpetual snow, and almost constantly 
involved in clouds. Dhayabung, one of these peaks, but not the highest, was 
computed by Colonel Crawfurd to be 19,960 feet above the level of the Nepaul 
valley. The southern face of these alps differs much from those of Switzerland, 
for the rains being periodical, and falling in the hottest season of the year, the 
mow continues alinost stationary. It is only a few showers chat happen in 
Winter, and the vapour from condensed clouds, that dissolve in the beginning of 
summer, and occasion a small swell of the rivers which spring from the south side 
of the Alps. The country on the north side of these lofty peaks is said to be high 
and bare, but not mountainous. The rains, however, are not there periodical, 
and the greatest falls happen in summer, so that although the several rivers of 
Blndostan have their remotest sources in that quarter, they do not swell much 
by && melting of the snow in the heats of spring. 

The ridge of the snowy alps, although it would appear to wind considerably, 
IkM few . interruptions, and in most places is said to be totally insuperable. Se- 

4*2 



NEPAUL. 


668 

veral rivers that rise in Tibet pass through among its peaks, but amidst 
such enormous precipices, and by such narrow chasms, that these openings are 
in general totally impracticable. By far the widest givps passage to the Arun, 
the chief branch of the Cosi, where Maingmo on the west and Mirgu on the 
east, leave a very wide opening, occupied by mountains of a moderate height 
which admit of cultivation. The most northern or Cailas ridge approaches 
Hindostan only at the lake Manasarovara, where the remarkable peak named 
Cailas, may be considered as the centre. 

The numerous vallies among the prodigious mountains of which Nepaul in its 
extended sense consists, are inhabited by various tribes, that differ very much 
in language and considerably in customs. All that have any pretensions to be 
considered aboriginal, like their neighbours of Bootan to the east, are by their 
features clearly marked as belonging to the Tartar or Chinese race of men, knd 
have no sort of resemblance to the Hindoos. The time when the Hindoos 
penetrated into these regions is very uncertain. Bheem Sen, the son of Pandoo, 
is said to have entered them, and probably was the first who introduced any 
sort of improvement. He still continues to be a favourite object of veneration 
with the rude tribes, both on the mountains and in their vicinity. Probably: at 
no great distance from the time of that prince, and about the commencement of 
our era, Sakya, the last great teacher of the Buddhists, passed through the 
country, and settled at Lassa, where he is supposed still to animate the mortal 
portion of the Grand Lama. His followers seem to have acquired a great as- 
cendancy over the tribes of Northern Hindostan, as well as in Tibet and Bootan, 
which they retained until a subsequent tribe of Hindoos, settled in the first 
mentioned country, introduced the Brahmins, who had considerable success 'in 
destroying the heretical doctrines, although these have still many sectaries. 

According to the traditions most relied on in Nepaul, the Hindoos of the 
mountains (the Parbutties) left their own country in consequence of invasion by 
the Mahommedan sovereign of Delhi, who wished to marry a daughter of the 
Raja of Chitore, celebrated for her beauty. A refusal brought destruction on 
her father and his capital city, and to avoid a hated yoke many of the people 
fled to the hills, about the 14th century. Many chiefs, especially of the Palpa, 
Tannahung, and Muckwanpoor families, claim descent from the Chitore princes,, 
but on very doubtful premises. It would appear, that when the princes of the 
mountaineers were persuaded to follow the Brahminical doctrines, many of their 
subjects or clans were induced to follow the example of their chief, and' in this 
manner originated the tribes called Thappas, Ghartis, Majhis, Bishtakos, Ranas, 
and Kharhas, all of whom are called Khasiyas or natives of Khas, but they wear 
the string and live pure like the Khetries, and are in fact included among the 



NEPAUL. 


fencibles or military strength of the country. Some of these, such as Bheem 
Sen and Ammer Singh, both Thappas, attained the highest honours of the 
state. 

The Rajpoots that are, or that even pretend to be descended from the Chitore 
colony, are very few in number ; but the families of the mountain chiefs who have 
adopted the Hindoo rules of purity, and even some who have neglected to do so, 
are now universally admitted to be Rajpoots. On the other hand, the Chitore 
family have so often married the daughters of the former, that several members 
of it have acquired the Tartar countenance, while some of the mountain families 
by intermarriages with 4 pure but indigent Rajpoots, have acquired oval faces and 
high noses. Not only the colony, therefore (real or pretended) from Chitore, 
but all the descendants of the hill chiefs are now called Rajpoots, and, until the 
absorption of all power by the Gorkha reigning family, held the principal offices, 
civil and military, of the petty states into which the country was subdivided. 
Even at present all the nominal Rajpoots have not adopted the rules of purity, 
for while some branches are strict observers, others reject the advice of the 
sacred order, and eat and drink whatever they think palatable. In the eastern 
parts of Nepaul, the mountain Hindoos are far from having extirpated the 
aboriginal tribes, most of which, until the accession of the Gorkha family, 
enjoyed their customs and religion unmolested ; but west of the Cali the case is 
different, almost all there pretending to be descended of colonies from the south. 
The various classes of inhabitants who have taken the Brahmins for their guides 
have not for any very long period composed the bulk of the population, or entered 
the country as residents, but at present they or their converts form a large pro- 
portion of the inhabitants of Northern Hindostan. 

The aboriginal mountain tribes have Chinese or Tartar faces, and, before the 
arrival of the Hindoos from the south, appear to have had no idea of caste. The 
tribes which occupied the country east of the Cali (for those to the west appear 
to have been more early converted or extirpated) were chiefly Magars, Gurungs, 
Jariyas, Newars, Murmis, Kirauts, Limboos, Lapchas, and Bhooteas. The 
Magars occupied a great proportion of the lower hills in the western parts, were 
soon converted so far as to abstain from beef, and at present compose a great 
majority of the regular troops maintained by the Gorkha dynasty, which, 
although claiming descent from Chitore, is strongly suspected to be of Magar 
extraction. The Gurungs were a pastoral tribe, who frequented the Alpine 
regions in summer, and returned to the vallies in winter ; a great proportion of 
these still adhere to the Lama priesthood and Buddhist religion. They live 
Bauch intermixed with the Bhooteas, cultivate with the hoe, are diligent miners 
and traders, conveying their goods on the numerous flocks of sheep they possess 



NEPAUL 


670 

The Jariyas formed a numerous tribe, and occupied much of the lower hilly 
region, between the Cali and the Pfopaul valley, but they are now nearly all con- 
verted to the Brahminical doctrines, 

The more fertile part of what is called Nepaul Proper was chiefly occupied by 
N ewars, a race addicted to agriculture and commerce, and far more advanced in 
the arts than any other of the mountain tribes. Their style of building, and most 
of their arts appear to have been introduced from Tibet, and the greater part still 
adhere to the tenets of the Buddhists ; but, on the other hand, they have 
adopted the distinctions of caste, have rejected the Lamas, and have a priest- 
hood of their own named Bangras. Their owr chiefs, called by the common 
title of Mull (mal), at the time when conquered by the Raja of Gorkha,\had 
divided into three branches, governing Catmandoo, Lalita Patan, and Bhatgong, 
In point of religion, a small number has forsaken the precepts of Buddha, while, 
by far the most numerous class still adhere to the doctrines taught by his minister 
Sakya Singh. It may be observed, that the distinctions of caste, and the nature 
of the priesthood, are essential differences between the Religion of the Ava 
Birmans, and that professed by the followers of Buddha in Nepaul ; but both 
are held in impartial abhorrence by the Brahmins of Bengal. All the Newars 
burn their dead ; all eat buffaloes, sheep, goats, fowls, and ducks ; and all drink 
spirituous liquors, to the use of which they are excessively addicted. They all 
live in towns or villages, in houses built of brick, cemented with clay, and 
covered with tiles; their bricks being good and the workmen expert. These 
dwellings are three stories high, the ground floor being appropriated for the 
cattle and the poultry, the second for the servants, and the third for the family of 
the owner; but among the poor, a number of families live under the same roof* 
The rooms within are very low in height, mean and dirty in appearance, and 
swarming with vermin, which, in addition to the filth, including the offals of the 
shambles and the blood of sacrifices collected in their streets, render their towns 
sufficiently disgusting. The Newar women are never confined to the bouse. At 
eight years of age they are carried to a temple and married, with the ceremonies 
usual among Hindoos, to a fruit called bel, the aegle marmejos of Roxburgh, 
When a girl arrives at the age of puberty, her parents, with her consent, betroth 
her to some man of the same caste, and give her a dower which becomes the 
property of her husband, or rather of her paramour, for the manners of the 
Newars in this respect are extremely licentious. 

In the more rude and mountainous parts of Nepaul Proper, the chief poptda- 
tion consisted of the Murmi, who are considered a branch of the Bhooteas/orof 
the Tibetians ; but although similar in religion, there is a marked difference in 
their languages. Their practices are so obnoxious to the Gmrkhas, that under 



NEPAUL. 


671 

pretence of their being thieves, no Murmi is allowed to enter the valley of Cat- 
mandoo. The Gorkhas also, by a way of ridicule, call them Siyena Bhooteas, 
or Bhooteas who eat carrion, for such is their appetite for beef that they cannot 
abstain from the oxen that have died a natural death, and they are not now per- 
mitted as- formerly to murder the sacred animal. They have in consequence, 
since the conquest of Nepaul by the Gorkhas, retired to places of difficult 
access, and before 'the subjugation of Sikkim many found an asylum in that 
country* The enmity of the Gorkhas pursued them to this seclusion and com- 
pelled them to disperse, as they were supposed too much inclined to favour the 
cow-destroying chief of Sikkim. It does not appear that the Murmis ever had 
any share in the government, or were addicted to arms, having always followed 
agricultural pursuits or been carriers of burthens, for which they were well cal- 
culated by the robustness of their frames. Their buildings are thatched huts, 
often supported on stages, like those of. India beyond the Ganges. Three of the 
most considerable gf the aboriginal tribes, the Kirauts, the Lapchas, and the 
Bhooteas, still remain, and will be found described under their respective heads* 
The Mahoiftmedans have become numerous in the Nepaul dominions, and are 
increasing, as they are zealous in purchasing girls and in propagating their sect. 
Christianity has not been equally successful. In 1802 , the church at Catmandoo 
was reduced to an Italian padre and a native Portugueze. 

Although the aboriginal mountain tribes had Tartar or Chinese faces, each 
had a peculiar dialect. Some used a written character altered from the Nagari, 
so as to enable it to express their utterance; others had not the use of letters. 
Before the arrival of the Hindoo colonies they had no idea of caste, but some of 
the tribes confined their marriages to their own nation, while others permitted 
intermarriages with strangers. Among all these hill tribes the women were 
weavers, and seem to have enjoyed great privileges ; but the polyandria system 
of marriage, except in a very few parts, had not been introduced with the reli- 
gion of Tibet* Until the arrival of the Rajpoots, they appear to have eaten 
every kind of animal food, and still do so, as well as drink ardent spirits, when 
they are at liberty to indulge their inclinations. Each tribe seems originally to 
have had a priesthood and deities peculiar to itself, although the worship of 
Bheem Sen, the strong son of Pandoo, appears to have been very general, and to 
have preceded the doctrines of the Buddhists ; but first the Lamas, or perhaps 
the Jogies, andthen the Brahmins, made encroachments, and at the same time 
Introduced many new customs. 

The mountain Hindoos of pure birth are not numerous, but there are a great 
many of a spurious irace, from intermixture with the aboriginal tribes. These 
mountain Hindoos ate described as a treacherous and cruel people, at once arro- 



NEPAUL. 


672 

gant and abject. Their men of rank, even of the sacred order, are very de- 
bauched, passing their nights in the company of male and female dancers, and 
by excessive indulgence bringing on premature debility. Except a few of the 
Brahmins, they are in general drunkards, which, joined to a temper uncommonly 
suspicious, renders them frequently so frantic with jealousy, that assassinations 
are perpetrated in the fury of the moment. For this they are all prepared by 
wearing a large knife in their girdle, and the point of honour requires that they 
never rest until they spill the blood of the man who has been suspected of t. 
criminal intercourse with their wives. The frequently imaginary cuckold 
watches his opportunity for months and years, until he finds his adversary off his 
guard, when having at length found a favourable moment, he plunges his lijpife 
into his body and satisfies his revenge. This procedure is considered so com- 
mendable, that at Catmandoo, the police, which in other respects is very strict, 
does not at all interfere in such matters, although the assassin is frequently 
actuated merely by suspicion. The higher ranks, when not compelled by the 
most urgent necessity, conceal their women, and their widows ought to burn 
themselves with their husband’s corpse, the custom being more prevalent than in 
most parts of India, the vicinity of Calcutta excepted. The Brahmins are of 
the Kanoje nation and of the Sacti sect, following chiefly the doctrines of the 
books called Tantras. 

Prior to the Gorkha conquests, the management of affairs in all the petty 
states was in many respects the same, differing chiefly in the names applied to 
similar officers, and in the nature of the military establishment in the two regions 
lying east and west of the Cali, the Hindoo rules of purity having been established 
with much less rigour in the first than in the last. The five severe punishments 
were, confiscation of the whole estate ; banishment of the whole family ; degra- 
dation of the whole family by delivering all the individuals composing it to the 
lowest tribes ; maiming the limbs ; and death by cutting the throat. In addition 
to these, the people of Gorkha introduced some new and most horrible tortures. 
Women, as in all Hindoo governments, are never put to death, but the tortures 
inflicted on them are dreadfully severe, some of them such as do not admit of 
description. 

Since the predominance of the Gorkhas there has usually been established a 
Soubah in place of each Raja, and the affairs are generally conducted by these 
officers as before, so far as relates to form ; but they are not allowed to inflic t atty 
of the five severe punishments without special orders from the Raja or court, to 
whom a report of the case must be made. The Soubah is an officer of revenue, 
justice, police, and, in fact, always farms the whole revenue of his district ; 
sometimes collecting it wholly on his own account, at others, feming particular 



NEPAUL. 673 

branches to individuals. Besides the annual presents paid by the Soubahs, and 
exclusive of the presents which every one must make on approaching the court, 
a rajanka, or kind of arbitrary income-tax is frequently levied, extending to all 
ranks, and even to such of the sacred order as possess rent-free lands. An 
officer is always deputed for the express purpose of collecting the rajanka, ac- 
cording to the exigencies of the state, and many districts pay more under this 
head than on account of the regular revenue. When General Kirkpatrick visited 
the country in 1792, he learned on what he considered good authority, that the 
revenue which actually reached Catmandoo, hever exceeded 30 lacks of rupees, 
and fluctuated between that and 25 lacks. The subsequent addition of territory, 
although it increased the means of supporting a large army, probably sent little 
money to the capital, and the Gorkha territories having been again reduced 
under the status quo of that period, the revenue has of course sustained a cor- 
responding diminution. The ordinary sources of revenue consist of land rents, 
customs, fines of various sorts, and mines. 

At the date above-mentioned the twelve principal officers of the state were, 
one Choutra; four Kajies; four Sirdars; two Khurdars, or secretaries; one 
Kupperdar, or store-keeper ; and one Khazanchee, or treasurer. These chief 
officers now form the Bharadar, or great council of the Raja, which usually 
attends him at the palace, but frequently acts without his presence. It ought to 
consist of 12 members, but some of the places are frequently vacant, and at 
other times the persons who hold them have so little influence, that they neglect 
or avoid giving their attendance. On great emergencies, a kind of assembly of 
notables is held, in which men who have neither office, nor any considerable in- 
fluence in the government, are allowed to speak very freely, but little importance 
is attached to what they say. Before the Gorkha conquest the military force 
among the petty chiefs was always large in proportion to their means ; but con- 
sisted of an undisciplined rabble, although of good bodily endowments. Since 
then much order has been introduced by the Gorkhas, their soldiers, however, 
are still far behind the regular corps of British sepoys. They have all fire-locks 
of an inferior description; but do not load with cartridges. Neither do they use 
the bayonet, being provided with swords, which are perhaps better fitted for 
such a country when backed by a large knife or dagger, used for a variety of 
purposes. The jung neshaun, or war standard, is on a yellow ground, and ex- 
hibits a portrait of Hunimaun, a gigantic monkey and Hindoo demi-god. The 
expenses of the military establishments, are for the most part discharged by 
assignments of land ; though, in some instances, the soldier receives his pay 
direct from the treasury. The chief expenses of the government are the pro** 
ro ft. ii. 4 a 



NEPAUL. 


674 

vision of fire arms and military stores ; of broad cloth for the clothing of the 
troops, and of jewels, silks, and cotton stuffs from Bengal. — ( F. Buchanan, $c.) 

% NEPAUL PROPER. 

The following observations apply principally to that subdivision of the Ne- 
paulese dominions distinguished by the name of Nepaul Proper, but the historical 
narrative, with which they are concluded, will be found to have a more general 
reference. 

The most select portions of the Gorkha territories consist of two delightful 
vallies, separated from each other by the mountain Chandangiri; but (these 
vallies, called Great and Little Nepaul, do not include, the whole of Nepalapesa, 
which is one of the 56 regions of Hindoo geography. It extends also a* con- 
siderable way over the countries watered by streams, which run from the outside 
of the mountains that enclose the greater valley, and which fall into the dun- 
duck on the west, and the Causiki on the east. The real boundaries are four 
celebrated places of pilgrimage ; Nilkantha, eight days journey north from Gat 
mandoo; Nateswar, three days journey; Kaleswar, two days journey west; 
and Bheemeswar, four days journey east. The territory included between these 
places is holy ground, and is called Dhama ; but the whole was not subject to 
the Newar chiefs who governed Nepaul, and a large portion, especially in the 
vicinity of Nilkantha, until the ascendant of the house of Gorkha was subject 
to Tibet. 

The large valley of Nepaul is somewhat of a circular form, and is watered by 
the numerous streams contributary to the Bogmutty, which flow from the sur- 
rounding hills towardathe centre, and unite a little way south of the capital. 
From the place of junction the Bogmutty runs south, and goes to the Terriani, 
after having forced a passage through the mountains. Taken in the largest sense, 
therefore, the valley of Nepaul comprehends all the grounds watered by the 
sources of the Bogmutty, and, according to this definition, is about 22 miles from 
east to west, and 20 from north to south. This extent is everywhere bounded by 
a chain of hills, all of which are steep, and some rise into high mountains. Of 
these the most remarkable are Sivapuri on the north; Nagarjun on the west ; 
Chandangiri, on the south-west; Pulihu, on the south-east; and Devicot, on 
the east. From these hills various branches reach a considerable way into the 
plain, and separate from it small vallies, most of which are considerably elevated 
above the general level, and from these minute vallies issue the numerous streams 
that irrigate the country. The larger valley, reduced by these branches, may be 
about 14 miles each way. Viewed from the centre the whole appears on a level, 



NEPAUL. 


675 

but on exploring, deep hollows are discovered, excavated by the different chan- 
nels of the river, which flow with a gentle current in large sandy beds* Except 
after heavy rains these are always fordable, and are commonly sunk 60 or 60 
feet perpendicular below the general level of the plain. 

Dr. Francis Buchanan agrees with General Kirkpatrick in supposing that this 
valley was formerly a lake, which has gradually deposited all the alluvial matter 
that forms the different substrata of the plain. The extent of the lake may in 
all places be traced by that of the alluvial matters, above the edges of which 
generally appear irregularly-shaped large stones, which, having rolled down from 
the hills, stopped at the water’s edge, as is usual in the lakes of hilly countries. 
The remembrance of the lake is preserved in the mythological fables of the 
natives, where the name of the deity (Menjoo Deva) who cleft the mountain 
with his scymitar is mentioned, together with numerous circumstances, equally 
authentic, connected with that event. While the lake existed, there must have 
appeared in it two islands, which now form hills. The one named Sambhunath 
is an elegant hill venerated by the Buddhists ; the other is larger, but not so 
high, and is greatly reverenced by the Brahminical followers of the Vedas, as 
having been the residence of Siva and his wife, to each of whom a temple is still 
dedicated. These temples are frequented by great numbers of pilgrims, who, by 
visiting all the fanes, hope to escape degradation below the scale of man in any 
future metemsychosis. The hill in a large proportion of its circumference is 
washed by the Bogmutty, which is here so holy a river that all the Hindoos of 
Nepaul wish to expire with their feet immersed in its stream, and after death to 
be burned on its banks. 

The northernmost part of the Nepaul valley scarcely lies in a higher parallel 
of latitude than 27° 60 ' N. yet it enjoys in some respects the climate of the south 
of Europe. Catmandoo, according to barometrical observations, stands 4784 
feet above the plains of Bengal, and to this great elevation must be attributed 
the degree of cold experienced in so low a latitude. A tolerably accurate esti; 
mate of the average heat of the valley may be obtained from that of its springs, 
one Of which on a level with Catmandoo was found to be 64° of Fahrenheit’s 
thermometer* In a few hours the inhabitants, by ascending or descending the 
mountains, can pass a variety of temperatures; and in three or four days’ 
journey, by moving from.Noakote to Kheroo, or Ramika, may exchange the heat 
of Bengal for the cold of Russia. The periodical rains extend to this spot, and 
are nearly of the same length and duration with those of Bahar, or perhaps a 
little earlier; but as they occupy the greater part of the summer, the country is 
not. favourable for many sorts of fruit, the heat of spring not being sufficient 
6a ripen them before the rainy season commences, as is the case in Bengal. 

4 & 2 



NEPAUL. 


676 

The whole lands in Nepaul Proper have long been partitioned into fields, each 
of which in ordinary seasons is estimated to produce 234 bushels of rice in the 
husk. The pastures and forests are mostly commons, with the exception of some 
reserved for the court ; but in fact few cattle are bred in the country. Buffaloes 
and goats are imported from the plains ; and horses, chowry cattle, shawl goats, 
common goats, and sheep, from Bhote and Tibet. The arable lands are partly 
retained as the immediate property of the crown for defraying the household 
expenses of the Raja, and most great proprietors employ stewards with their 
servants and slaves to cultivate some land for supplying their families, j The 
great therefore seldom go to market, which among a lawless people is no small 
advantage to the lower classes, although, as occasioning a want of regular lpar- 
kets, of equal inconvenience to travellers. The hoe is the grand agricultural 
instrument of cultivation, yet it is of so awkward a shape that the labourer must 
either stoop exceedingly when at work, or sit on his heels, a posture he usually 
prefers. They have, however, made one step further than in Southern Hindostan, 
as they have numerous water mills for grinding corn, although in Nepaul rice is 
the grand crop. The ground fit for this is of two kinds, which differ in the 
manner and time of their cultivation so as to make two rice harvests, but no one 
field in one year produces two crops of this grain, and the orops on the whole 
are not to be compared for quantity with those of Bengal. Many other sorts of 
grain, pulse and roots are cultivated, and sugar cane is planted in considerable 
quantities, but rarely more is raised than is required for the consumption of the 
chief landlords. The Newar cultivators make but a little extract, soft sugar^ 
and sugar candy, a large proportion of the cane being eaten without any prepa- 
ration. Among the spontaneous productions of Nepaul are the raspberry, the 
walnut, and the mulberry ; but none of the fruits are good except oranges and 
pine apples. 

The commerce of Nepaul is not so extensive as it might be under better regu- 
lations, which is partly to be attributed to the ignorance and jealousy of the 
administration, and partly to the existence of certain monopolies ; but it could 
never be very great, as the country is poor, and produces few articles for expor- 
tation, except iron, copper, and drugs. Formerly some Cashmerian merchants 
carried their manufactures to Kutti, and other towns in Tibet, in order to pro- 
cure the wool produced in these countries by the shawl goat. These manufac- 
tures were partly used in Tibet, partly sent to Siling or Sining on the western 
frontier of China by the way of Teshoo Loomboo and Lassa, and partly sent to 
Patna by the way of Catmandoo. They brought from China such goods as 
answered the demand of Cashmere and Nepaul, among which teas and silk 
were the principal articles, and from Patna to China it is said they carried otters* 



NEPAUL. 677 

skins,- procured from the neighbourhood of Dacca, to the value of 50,000 rupees; 
but ibis appears improbable. 

The merchants of Tibet, or Bhote, then brought for sale to Catmandoo paper, 
coarse woollen cloth, horses, shawl goats, common goats, sheep, chowry cattle, 
chowries, musk, salt, sal ammoniac, hurtal or yellow arsenic, borax, quicksilver 
from China, gold dust, silver ; preserved fruits, such as almonds, walnuts, raisins, 
dates ; and drugs, such as munjeet or Indian madder, chirata and charas, or 
extract of hemp. Formerly the Lamas of Lassa and Teshoo Loomboo sent 
much bullion to the mint at Catmandoo, and made a liberal allowance for having 
it coined, but the rapacity of Raja Run Bahadur, then regent, induced him to 
alloy the money, which of course put an entire stop to this source of wealth. 
Of these articles, the greater part of the ‘musk, chowries, hurtal, borax, and 
bullion, still find their way to Patna ; from whence are carried north, buffaloes, 
goats, broad Hoth, cutlery, glassware, and other European commodities, Indian 
cotton manufactures, mother of pearl, pearls, coral, beads, spices, pepper, betel 
nut and leaf, camphor, tobacco, and phagoo, which is the red powder thrown by 
the Hindoos during the Hooly. Most of these articles, together with many 
utensils of wrought copper, brass, bell metal, and iron, are sold to the merchants 
of Tibet. The borax and salt are said to be brought from a lake which is 
situated nearly north from Catmandoo, about 15 days’ journey beyond the 
Brahmaputra. They are conveyed to Nepaul on the backs of a large kind of 
sheep, of which many have four horns, and which seem to be the common 
beasts of burthen in all countries towards the sources of the Indus, Ganges, 
and Brahmaputra. 

Two coarse kinds of cotton cloth are woven by the Newar women of all 
ranks, and by the men of the hill tribe named Magar. The cotton grows in the 
hilly parts of the kingdom, and is sufficient for the consumption, but not for 
exportation. These cloths compose the dresses of the middling and lower 
classes, although woollens be much better fitted for the cold of a Nepaul winter. 
All those who are not very poor can afford to have woollen blankets, which are 
manufactured by the Bhooteas, who wear nothing else. The whole dress of the 
higher ranks is imported, and consists chiefly of Chinese silks, shawls, low 
country muslins, and calicoes. The military alone wear European broad cloth. 
In Lalita Patan and Bhatgong there are considerable manufactories of copper, 
brass, and a species of bell metal. The Tibet bells are superior to those of 
Nepaul ; but a great many bell metal vessels are made by the Newars and ex- 
ported to Tibet along with those of brass and copper. Iron vessels and lamps 
are also manufactured for the same market. A very strong paper, remarkably 
wdl suited for packages, is made at Bhatgong from the bark of a shrub ; but a 



678 NEPAUL. 

considerably quantity of paper, as well as‘ of the raw material, it imported 
from Tibet. 

% As a general summary, Nepaul may be said to export to British India ele- 
phants, elephants’ teeth, rice, timber, hides, ginger, terra japonica* turmeric, 
wax, honey, pure resin of the pine, walnuts, oranges, long pepper, ghee, bark of 
the root of bastard cinnamon, dried- leaves of the same, large cardamoms, 
dammer, lamp oil, and cotton of the siifiul tree ; and that the following articles 
are exported from the British dominions to Nepaul, either for the consumption 
of the country or for the Tibet marW, viz. Bengal cloths, muslins and siljcs of 
various sorts, raw silk, gold and silver laces, carpets, English cutlery, safron, 
apices, sandal wood, quicksilver, cotton, tin, zinc, lead, soap, camphor, chillies, 
'tobacco, and coral ; but the total amount is very insignificant compared ^ith 
what it might be under better regulations. A considerable commerce subsists 
between the Nepaul territories and the district of Purneah in Bengal, which as 
it consists mostly in the exchange of articles in a rude state, and for which there 
is a mutual necessity, might, if liberally conducted, prove of great utility to both 
countries. The chief import by this route from Nepaul is grain, and the prin- 
cipal export salt. In 1808, the whole exports to Nepaul from Purneah were 
estimated at 71,000 rupees, while the imports into the latter amounted to 364,000 
rupees ; the balance being paid to the Nepaulese in silver. By this route also 
some gold dust is probably received from Tibet, but no computation of the 
amount can be made, all transactions in the precious metals being carefully 
concealed, no person in Nepaul wishing to be known as dealing in a property so 
tangible. 

The great mass of the inhabitants of Nepaul dwell in the vallies; the hills and 
the ternani or low country being but thinly populated. In Nepaul Proper, 
the Parbutties or mountaineers, are not near so numerous as the Newars, who 
are described among the aboriginal tribes in the preceding article. The valley 
of Nepaul is . certainly populous, but the number of inhabitants is much exag- 
gerated by the natives, who assign 18,000 houses to Catmandoo, 24,000 to 
LalitaPatah, and 12,000 to Bhatgong, which numbers areprbbably equal to the 
aggregate of persons of all ages and sexes in each town respectively, allowing 
a few additional to Catmandoo the capital. There are besides within the valley 
several other considerable towns, such as Timi, Kirthipoor, Dewapatan, Sang- 
gliu, and Thankote. The mountaineers do not, like the Newars, delight in towns, 
or even villages, and except the followers of the court, few reside at Catmandoo, 
or other cities of Nepaul ; neither are they so much addicted to large brick 
buildings. The princes of the Gorkha dynasty, notwithstanding they have 
united very extensive dominions under their authority, have been contented 



NEPAUL. 


679 

with the original palace of the petty chief of Catmandoo before the conquest, 
which although of great magnitude (considering the petty chief for whose ac- 
commodation it was erected) possesses no architectural magnificence, and is in 
fact inferior to the palaces of Lalita Patan and Bhatgong. The great Gorkha 
families have occupied the houses ot the Newars, or have built others in the same 
style, some of which are respectable mansions. The greater part of the Par- 
butties, or mountaineers, retain their old manners, and each man lives upon his 
own farm. Their huts are built of mud, and are either white-washed or painted 
red with coloured day. They are covered with thatch, and, although much 
smaller than the houses of the Newark, seem more comfortable, as having a 
neater and more cleanly appearance. The language spoken by the mountain 
Hindoos, in the vicinity of Catmandoo, is usually called the Parbatiya Basha, or 
- mountain dialect ; but west from the capital it is more commonly known by the 
nfl>pp of Khas Basha, or dialect of the Khas country. The character in which 
it is written is derived from the Nagari, and the language itself appears to be a 
close dialect of the Hindwi language, which is making rapid progress in extin- 
guishing the aboriginal languages of the mountains. General Kirkpatrick was 
of opinion, that were a search made after ancient Sanscrit manuscripts in the 
Nepaul valley, much valuable information might be gained, as there was 
reason to suppose the religion of Brahma had been established there without 
interruption from the remotest antiquity. The process of time and events, 
however, has proved that both the conjectures of that able officer were erroneous, 
almost no manuscripts of any kind having been discovered among these rude 
tribes, whose Brahmins are more than usually illiterate, and whose doctrines 
are ascertained to have been comparatively a recent innovation, imported from 
the south, and still progressive in the work of conversion. 

Throughout Nepaul Proper cultivation is nearly confined to the Newar tribes, 
who also exercise the useful arts, but they enjoy little security or happiness 
under their present rulers. They probably never were of a warlike disposition, 
and are held in contempt by the Parbutties. They are of a middle size, broad' 
shoulders and chest, stout limbs, round and rather flat faces, small eyes, low and 
somewhat spreading noses, with a complexion between a sallow and a copper 
colour. Rice is the grand article of subsistence with all tribes in Nepaul, where 
along with it the poorest classes eat raw garlic and radishes. They also fry 
radishes, fenugreek, or lentiles in water mixed with salt, capsicum, and tur- 
meric, and to these, people in more easy circumstances add oil or ghee, and the 
rich a great deal of animal food. Even the poorest are occasionally able to 
sacrifice a pigeon; fowl, or duck, and of course to eat all these birds. No Hindoo 
eats any meat but the flesh of sacrifices, for he considers it a sin to kill any 



NEPAUL. 


680 

animal merely for the purpose of indulging his appetite, but when a sacrifice- has* 
been offered, the votary thinks he may with safety eat what the god does not 
use. The Rajpoots of Nepaul are in reality so fond of animal food that, to the 
great astonishment of the Bengalese, they drink the blood of a sacrifice as it 
flows from the victim. 

In Nepaul most of the domestic servants are slaves, and there are some Brah- 
mins who are slaves to Rajpoots, and in high families are employed as cooks, (an 
office of great dignity,) or in the service of public chapels. All other ranks are 
sold for common slaves, and persons of the best family have been degraded by 
the Raja and given to damais or tailors, by which they not only lose iheir 
liberty, but also their caste, which to a Hindoo is of much more importanc^, as 
in general among the higher classes the caste of a slave is respected. It is 
reckoned very disgraceful to sell their children to any person of impure 
birth, or to an infidel, yet in cases of exigence it is frequently done, and the 
parents do not lose caste, which however they inevitably would, if they after- 
wards admitted their child into their house, even were he liberated by his 
master. All the female slaves or keties, not excepting those belonging to the 
queen, are prostitutes, although the latter are allowed some privileges, and 
have considerable influence at court. In the day-time they attend the Maha 
Ranny or Queen, and when she goes out some of them armed with swords 
follow her on horseback, and form her body guard, on which occasions they are 
dressed and ride on horseback like men. 

The Nepaulese constitution of government is essentially despotic, modified by 
certain observances enjoined by immemorial custom, the Dharma Shastra forming 
the basis of their jurisprudence in civil and criminal cases. Nepaul Proper is 
under the Bharadar, or great officers of the court, for the support of which Cat- 
mandoo pays annually 18,000 rupees ; Lalita Patan, 18,000 ; Bhatgong, 14,000 ; 
and Kirthipoor, 7,000 rupees. About 1806, a kind of perpetual settlement was 
made of the crown lands, when each farm was assessed at a certain quantity of 
grain, which the farmer might either pay in kind, or in money at the market 
price. A very large proportion of the valley has been alienated either in fee or 
as charity lands. A fine town named Sanghoo, worth annually 4000 rupees, is 
the jaghire or jointure of the queen regent ; and Dewapatan, a still larger place, 
belongs entirely to certain temples, which in the valley are redundantly nu- 
merous, there not being a fountain, river, or hill, within its limits, that is not 
consecrated to some deity of the Hindoo, pantheon. 

The ancient history of Nepaul is very much clouded with mythological fable. 
The inhabitants have a list of princes for many ages back, of whom Ny Muni, 
who communicated his name to the valley, was the first. Like other eastern 



NEPAUL. 681 

states, it often changed roasters, but the revolutions appear either to have origin- 
ated internally i or to have been connected with their immediate neighbours, as 
we never find them subjected either to the Delhi emperors, or to any other of 
the great Asiatic powers. About A. D. 1323, Hur Singh Deo, Raja of Sem- 
rounghur (then a potent state), and of the posterity of Bamdeb of the Surya 
Bansi princes of Oude, entered Nepaul, and is said to have completely subdued 
it ; but from that period scarcely any authentic inf6rmation has been obtained 
either of the dynasties which ruled during the interval, or of the race of princes 
who governed Nepaul at the time of the Gorkha conquest. For some time prior 
to that event, the N ewers, who are the aboriginal inhabitants of the valley, appear 
to have been subject to k family of their own nation, all the members of which 
had assumed the name of Mull, and had separated into three lordships, Catman- 
doo, Lalita Patan, and Bhatgong, which circumstance greatly facilitated die 
enterprise of the chief of Gorkha. 

Runjeet Mull of bhatgong was the last prince of the Surya Bansi (the offspring 
of the sun) race that reigned over Nepaul. He formed an alliance with Prithi 
Narrain, the Gorkha Raja, with the view of strengthening himself against the 
sovereign of Catmandoo ; but this connexion ended in the total reduction of 
Nepaul by his ally in the Newar year 888, corresponding with A. D. 1768. 
Prithi Narrain was a person of sound judgment, great courage, and insatiable 
ambition. Kind and liberal, especially in promises, to his friends and dependants, 
be was regardless of faith to strangers, and of humanity to all who opposed his 
views. Besides his personal endowments, he was much indebted for success to 
the introduction of firelocks, which, until his time, were totally unknown among 
the hills y and so far us he was able he introduced the European discipline, the 
value of which he fully appreciated. The Gorkha dynasty first came in collision 
with the British in 1769, when a force was detached by the Bengal government 
against that people, under Captain Kinloch, who penetrated as far as Sedowly, 
an important post at the foot of the Nepaul hills ; but not being able to proceed 
further, and the troops being sickly, the enterprize was abandoned. 

After a life of incessant activity and monstrous cruelty, Raja Prithi Narrain 
died in 1771, leaving two legitimate sons, Singh Pertaup, who succeeded his 
father, and Bahadur Sah, who, after his brother s death, was regent of the king- 
dom during his nephew's minority. Singh Pertaup’s attention was principally 
directed to secure the eastern conquests; but dying in 1775, the kingdom 
devolved to his infant to o Run Bahadur, under the charge of his uncle Bahadur 
Sah* a very active enterprising prince, and of his mother Rajindra Lakshmi, a 
princess of similar talents. Two such characters could not long agree, and until 
the princess's death them were constant disputes, but the conquests proceeded, 
*«mu if. 4 • 



NEPAUL. 


682 

Palpa, and many other petty states to the west, Bhote to the north, and Sikkim; 
to the east, being compelled to acknowledge the Gorkha domination. Howards 
the end of Mr. Hastings’ government, the Teshoo Lama of Tibet proceeded to 
Pekin, and dying soon after his arrival there, Sumhur Lama, his brother, fled 
from Lassa to the Raja of Nepaul, taking with him a considerable quantity of 
treasure. By the tenour of his communications he excited the avarice of the 
Nepaul government, which ftiarched a body of troops towards Lassa. The army 
of the latter being beaten, they agreed to pay a tribute of three lacks of rupees. 
In 1790, the Nepaulese, inflamed with the desire of plunder, detached a second 
army (it is said of 7000 men) against Teshoo Loomboo, the residence of another 
jsacred Lama, which pillaged that place and all its sacred temples, and succeeded 
in carrying back a large booty, although closely pursued by a Chinese army \ In 
the course of their retreat they lost 2000 men by the severity Of the weather, 
great numbers of whom appear to have been frozen to death. 

In 1792, the Emperor of China, as the earthly superior of the Lamas, whom 
he protects and worships, dispatched an army of 70,000 men against the Nepaul 
Raja, which beat the Gorkha troops repeatedly, and advanced to Noakote, within 
26 miles of Catmandoo, and 60 of the British territories under the Bengal pre- 
sidency. The Nepaulese were in consequence obliged at last to make peace bn 
ignominious terms, consenting to become tributaries to the Emperor of China, 
and to restore all the plunder they had acquired from the Tibet Lamas. The 
submission, however, was merely temporary, nor does it appear that the tribute 
was ever exacted. A treaty of commerce was about the same time attempted 
by Lord Cornwallis, and Captain Kirkpatrick sent envoy to Catmandoo; but 
the extreme jealousy of the Nepaulese frustrated all his endeavours. Hie 
information obtained by the Governor General on that occasion satisfied his 
mind that the issue of the transactions above mentioned had not placed the 
dominions of Nepaul in a state of dependance on the empire of China, or that 
any connexion subsisted to limit the Raja in any alliances he might contract. 
The arrangement on the whole was beneficial to the Gorkhas, as it gave them a 
pretext for appealing for protection to the Chinese, with whose influence over 
the British nations, through the medium of the tea plant, they are much better 
acquainted than is generally supposed. 

The queen regent died in 1786, when the care of the government erf the young 
Raja, Run Bahadur, devolved entirely on his unde, Bahadur Sab, who is said, 
from disgraceful motives; to have encouraged the Raja in debauchery, Is hopes 
that the depravity of his disposition would bring him into such contempt and 
dread as to ensure the permanence of his own authority. In this, however, he 
was deceived, for in 1795, Run Bahadur, haring entered his 20th year, suddenly 



NEPAUL. 683 

announced to bis uncle that he had resolved on assuming the reins of govern- 
ment, and the tide of loyalty setting strongly in his favour, Bahadur Sah forebore 
an unavailing opposition, and received from his nephew assurances of the most 
distinguished fbvour. The first year of his reign, like that of Nero, gave general 
satisfaction, but in die second the brutality of his nature was displayed to a 
degree seldom equalled or excelled. He threw his uncle into chains and starved 
him to death, and beheld daily tortures and mutilations with a savage joy. 
Women of all castes, even of the sacerdotal, were seized and subjected to the 
abuses of the vilest wretches. In 1797, he had a son by a Brahmin widow, 
who succeeded him. Next year this woman being seriously ill, and finding her 
end approaching, reminded the Baja that the astrologers had declared he would 
never complete his 24th year, and recommended his providing for the unpro- 
tected orphan they were about to leave. The Raja having a superstitious 
reliance on the truth of the prediction, determined to avert the dangers that 
menaced his son, by an immediate abdication of the throne in his favour, and 
notwithstanding the illegitimacy of the child, the ceremony was performed 
before all the chiefs in the most solemn manner, and an administration appointed, 
at the head of which he fixed one of his rannies or queens. 

The abdicated monarch then devoted his whole time to attendance on his 
favourite the widow, but all his efforts, assisted by the efficacy of 12 lacks of 
rupees bestowed in offerings at the different temples, were of no effect, as she 
soon after quitted her mortal frame. On this event his conduct became that of 
a m adman , and he perpetrated, in the paroxysms of his rage, atrocities at which 
the Nepaulese still shudder, and which do not admit of narration. Among other 
absurdities he caused the golden image from the venerated temple of Bahvani, to 
be ground to dust with the most abominable filth, and directed the temple itself 
to be demolished. Three companies of soldiers, to whom he issued the orders, 
demurring at the sacrilege, he commanded scalding oil to be poured on their 
naked bodies. Nor did the first members of the government escape his ferocity. 
Some were scourged, some drawn by the heels to the branches of a tree, neither 
rank nor caste aff ording protection against the caprices of the frantic savage. 
When endurance was exhausted, the chiefs confederated against him, and insisted 
that he should practically execute his abdication by retiring from the seat of 
government, and the tyrant finding himself abandoned by the military, and ap- 
prehensive of having his person delivered up by the few troops who still adhered 
to him, absconded during the night and fled to Benares, which he reached in the 
month of May, 1800 . 

It had always been an object much desired by the Court of Directors to esta- 
blish a close connexion with the state of Nepanl, principally with a view to 

4 s 2 



NEPAUL. 


684 

commercial purposes, and the flight of Raja Run Bahadur appearing to offer a 
favourable opportunity. Captain W. D. Knox was appointed ambassador, and 
proceeded to Catmandoo in 1802. A treaty of alliance was subsequently con* 
eluded between the two states, on terms favourable to the British government, 
but in which all stipulations that might by any latitude of construction be con- 
sidered to operate as a defensive engagement against the Chinese were avoided. 
On this occasion the tribute of elephants hitherto paid by the Nepaulese was 
relinquished, but only so long as the conditions of the mutual engagements were 
fulfilled. The conclusion of the treaty was in a great measure to be attributjed, 
to the solicitude of the existing members of the Nepaulese administration^ to 
confirm themselves, by the credit of the British alliance, against the influence 
and intrigues of a contending faction, and if possible to interest the Bengal 
government against the restoration of the abdicated Raja. By this document 
many apparent advantages were attained, but the whole were ultimately ren- 
dered nugatory by the jealous opposition of the subordinate Nepaulese officers, 
probably instigated by their chiefs, and by the utter inability of the ruling 
authorities to fulfil its obligations. It was in consequence, in 1804, determined 
to dissolve the alliance, and the residency was withdrawn from Catmandoo, 
where the abdicated Raja arrived soon after, and through the previous able ma- 
nagement of his ranny or queen, whom he had always ill treated, regained his 
former authority. Run Bahadur's second reign was, however, of short duration, for, 
continuing to rule with his former barbarity, and, having incensed the Brahmins 
by a forced resumption of the rent-free lands, a conspiracy was organized against 
him in 1805, which ended with his assassination in his own durbar. A conflict 
then ensued between the adverse parties, which did not terminate until nearly 
the whole of the chief men at Catmandoo were slaughtered ; but the late Raja's 
surviving adherents have secured the person of his minor son, seized on the 
reins of government, destroyed such of their opponents as they could get hold 
of, and compelled the widowed ranny to burn with her husband’s corpse. 

From the above date, although agitated by intestine feuds, the Nepaulese 
continued to extend their conquests in all directions. The hill chiefs to the west 
of Catmandoo, and towards the Sutuleje, being accustomed to encroach on each 
other's possessions, viewed all their neighbours' movements with the utmost 
jealousy, and had no common principle of union for mutual defence. The con- 
sequence was, that each fell singly before the Gorkhas, and offered but little 
resistance to a body of half-disciplined barbarians, who imposed on them by s 
wretched imitation of the dress, constitution, and accoutrements of the British 
sepoy. That they might have been successfully opposed in such a country 
scarcely admits of a doubt, yet the invaders were suffered to capture, without the 



NEPAUL. 685 

mid of artillery, every hill-fort from the Ganges to the Sutuleje. When Ammer 
Singh Thappa first attracted notice he was employed in subduing the intervening 
states, and as he advanced west, he erected strong forts and stockades at con- 
venient distances, especially at Alrnora, Serinagur, and Malown. On the Seik 
frontier he constructed a strong line of fortifications. In this manner the con- 
solidation of the Gorkha power proceeded steadily and unchecked, and the vast 
tract from Catmandoo to the Sutuleje was subdued and maintained by a system 
of terror, while to the east the Sikkim Raja was deprived of half his territories, 
and compelled to pay tribute for the remainder. Their expansion to the north 
was restrained by the Chinese power and a lofty range of sterile mountains ; but 
the fertile plains of the south presented greater temptations, and apparently of 
less difficult attainment. The consequence was a series of encroachments on 
the British possessions along the whole northern frontier, more especially in the 
districts of Goruckpoor and Sarun. The Bengal government remonstrated 
repeatedly against these proceedings, and proposed an investigation by joint 
commissioners, the result of which was the complete establishment of the British 
claims, but no attention was paid to the decision, and the lands were appropri- 
ated by the Gorkhas. A detachment of regulars was in consequence ordered to 
take forcible possession; but in the rainy season, when they were withdrawn, 
the principle th&nna or police station was attacked by large bodies of Nepaulese 
troops, and the officers compelled to flight, with the loss of 18 killed and six 
wounded. Shortly after another thanna having been assaulted, and several per- 
sons killed, the whole were withdrawn, and in 1814 an appeal made to the 
sword. 

yhc moun taino us barrier which bounds the Nepaulese dominions adjacent to 
Bengal was then supposed inaccessible to the progress of a large army; but the 
western frontier beyond the Jumna, and near the Sutuleje, being of easier access, 
was first attempted. The war, however, from causes of which our limits do not 
admit a detail, lingered both here and elsewhere, and several bloody checks, 
such as the British troops had not lately been accustomed to, were experienced. 
At length, in 1815, Sir David Ochterlony having assumed the chief command, 
penetrated the hills, and by a series of skilful operations dislodged the Gorkhas 
from the fortified heights of Malown, and ultimately so baffled and pent up their 
renowned commander Ammer Singh and his son, that they were glad to capi- 
tulate, and, for permission to retreat with their remaining troops, engaged to 
abandon the whole territory west of the Cali branch of the Goggra. The con- 
quest of Kumaon having at the same time been accomplished, subsequent nego- 
tiations terminated the campaign, and a treaty was actually signed on the 28th 
November, 181 ft ; but owing to intrigues in his cabinet* the Raja's ratification 



NEPAUL, 


686 

having been withheld, a second struggle became unavoidable. It waa now de 
termined to strike the blow directly at Catmandoo, the capital, which the Ne- 
paulese, confiding in the natural strength of the country, and having baffled the 
ill-conducted attempts of the preceding season, considered inaccessible. But 
the preparations made were of the most formidable description, so that by the 
commencement of 1816, the forces assembled in Sarun amounted to 13,000 men, 
of whom 3000 were Europeans, and the total number of regulars and irregulars 
directed against the Nepaulese dominions, to no less than 46,629 men. 

By the exemplary zeal manifested in all departments, the army under; Sir 
David Ochterlony was enabled to take the field by the end of January, 1816, 
and on the 3d of February advanced from the Bettiah district north towards 
Catmandoo. Having crossed the great saul forest, named Simora Basa, it 
reached Beechiaco on the 9th without opposition from the enemy, but with 
great difficulty on account of the ruggedness of a country covered with forest 
and jungle. Head quarters were established at Beechiaco on the 13th ; on the 
14th the division renewed its advance ; and on the 15th reached the summit of 
the Cheriaghauti pass, which leads directly into the valley of Muckwanpoor 
through the first range of hills ; the march effected having been through the dry 
beds of torrents, ravines, and up precipices, and for a considerable distance 
wholly destitute of water. This pass, strong by nature and fortified by stockades, 
was turned by General Ochterlony, who led in person a light division across the 
range by a different pathway to its rear. It was in consequence abandoned by 
the Gorkhas, and, being advantageously situated, was made a d£pdt on the line 
of communication with the plains. Having thus made good their footing on the 
top of the hills, the troops marched straight on Muckwanpoor, where the main 
body of the Gorkhas was stockaded, and on the 28th of February bad a very 
serious rencontre with the enemy at Seekur Khutree, situated at the extremity 
of the ridge of hills on which Muckwanpoor stands. In this action the flower 
of the Gorkha army, consisting of 3000 disciplined soldiers besides irregulars, 
were engaged, and according to their account lost 800 men. The British ca- 
sualties were 45 killed and 175 wounded ; the first description including Lieu- 
tenant Tyrell, the officer commanding the party that first occupied the severely 
contested position. On the 1st of March the fort of Harriorpoor after a des- 
perate resistance was evacuated, and the Gorkhas began to tremble for Catraan- 
doo, not more than three days being necessary to decide the fate of that capita!. 
All these circumstances combined had so pacific an influence on the Nepaulese 
councils, that on the 4th of March the Gorkha ambassador repaired to the 
general's headquarters, and eagerly entreated him to accept the conditions prof- 
fered in the unratified treaty of 1815. Finding the Gorkhas at last sincere in 



NEPAUL. 68? 

their desire for peace, a treaty was soon arranged and ratified; and in this 
manner* by the decisive activity of Sir David Ochteriony, the war and campaign 
were concluded within the short space of a month and a day. 

The most essential articles of the above treaty were the following : viz. The 
Nepanlese renounced all lands respecting which there had been any prior dis- 
cussion; all the territories within the hills eastward of the river Mitchee, 
including the fort and lands of Nagree and the pass of Nagorcote leading from 
the Morung into the hills, together with the territory lying within that pass and 
Naggree ; finally, all claims of every description to the country lying west of 
the Cali branch of the Ooggra Within the tract last mentioned, Kumaon, the 
Deyrah Doon, and some other portions of territory, were annexed to the British 
dominions ; but, with these exceptions, the whole country west of the Cali from 
which the Gorkhas had been expelled was restored to the representatives of 
the families which had possessed it before the Gorkha invasion. In cases where 
the ancient families had become extinct, the lands were conferred on chiefs who 
had served with zeal and fidelity during the war. All the chiefs above alluded 
to hold their estates in a sort of feudal dependance on the British government, 
which, without interfering with the internal details of their administration, un- 
dertakes to arbitrate their differences and protect them from foreign invasion. 
These definitive arrangements left Nepaul in the condition of a substantive 
state, while the extensive cessions of territory that it had been compelled to 
make so far reduced its strength and resources, as effectually to check the spirit 
of conquest and aggrandizement which so long animated the system of Gorkha 
policy. 

During the progress, of the above events, it could not be expected that the 
Chinese would view with unconcern the operations of a war so near to their 
own frontier, and with one of the parties in which they had political relations 
of superiority, acquired by the result of the contest in 1792, which occasioned 
the mission of General Kirkpatrick to Catmandoo. There is reason, however, 
to believe that for some time before the war of 1814, the Nepaulese had relaxed 
considerably in their observance of the tributary obligations and other marks 
of dependance imposed on them by the unfortunate issue of the prior warfare ; 
but latterly, when pressed from the south, information was received that agents 
bad been dispatched from Catmandoo to Lassa, and even to Pekin ; and in an 
intercepted tetter of Ammer Singh Thappa, the Gorkha commander, the expe- 
diency of soliciting succour from China was strongly urged. In 1815, it was 
ascertained that dispatches had been received by the Nepaulese envoy at Lassa, 
the court of the grand Lama, addressed to the latter, and also to the Chinese 
Tazin. 6n the subject of the war then raging between the Nepaulese and the 



NEPAUL. 


688 

British. These documents stated that the red coats were only desirous of pene- 
trating through the dominions of Nepaul, in order to attack the grand Lama and 
t^e Chinese, and requested assistance of men and money to maintain a cause 
in which the powers addressed were much more interested than the Gorkha 
dynasty, which could easily procure peace by consenting to the scheme pro- 
posed, and permitting the invasion of Lassa. To this application the Grand 
Lama (or rather his functionaries) replied, that he possessed neither inclination 
nor ability to grant the aid solicited, the temporal power being vested in the 
Chinese Tazin. The latter forwarded the dispatches to Pekin, from whence, 
after a lapse of four months, an answer arrived from, the Emperor, stating, that 
he was convinced the Gorkhas had brought the war 6n themselves by then un- 
just encroachments, to which they were by nature prone, and that whenever 
the British invaded his dominions he would know what measures to adopt for 
their protection. Soon afterwards a dispatch arrived at Lassa from Calcutta, 
explaining the circumstances of the rupture with Nepaul, which were presented 
by the Raja to the Tazin, and by him forwarded to Pekin, the Grand Lama not 
being then incarnate. 

Notwithstanding the earnest appeals of the Nepaulese, the communications 
received in Bengal from the select committee at Canton clearly proved that the 
events transacting in Northern Hindostan did not at first attract any serious 
attention at the imperial court, until it was stimulated by the exaggerated re- 
presentations of the Gorkha emissaries, aided probably by the rapid advance of 
Sir David Ochterlony towards Catmandoo, and ultimately, after the restoration 
of peace, by the establishment of a British residency in that city. The Chinese 
government now pretended to be deeply offended with that of Nepaul, which, 
being a tributary state, had presumed to make peace or war with the British 
without the knowledge or sanction of the superior. To punish the contumacy 
of the Nepaulese, an army, estimated by a spy dispatched to Lassa, at 15,000 
men, commanded by five generals, and attended by Chinese functionaries of 
superior ran 1 to those usually stationed at Lassa, actually advanced towards 
Tingri, the scene of important transactions in the war of 1792. It is probable 
the Chinese cabinet had at this time ulterior views to the ostensible one, for 
certainly some powerful motive was necessary to impel them to incur the incon- 
venience and expense of assembling an army in so remote a quarter of their 
enormous empire. 

A complete change of political relations took place in consequence, for tire 
ministers of Nepaul now solicited the British mediation with the same eager- 
ness as they formerly supplicated the protection of the Chinese. To foiwiurd 
the restoration of tranquillity, the British government had no objections to lend 



NEPAUl 689 

its aid within certain limits ; but throughout the whole negociation it was ex- 
tremely desirable to avoid giving umbrage to the Chinese or getting entangled 
with the intrigues of the Gorkhas. The utmost extent of interference contem- 
plated, was the endeavouring to accommodate by mediation the subsisting dif- 
ferences between the Chinese and Nepaulese, in the event of being solicited to 
do so by both parties ; in the mean time it was recommended to the latter to 
try the success of their own overtures. Nepaulese agents were in consequence 
dispatched to the Chinese camp early in September, 1816, and afterwards pro- 
ceeded to Teshoo Loot' bo, north of Boo tan. On their arrival they were intro- 
duced to the Chinese authorities, who at first talked in a very lofty strain, but 
at length affected to be satisfied with the assurance that peace had been esta- 
blished between Nepaul and the British government, and consented to the 
renewal of the ancient relations without extorting any further concession from 
the Nepaulese. Having accomplished the object of their mission, the agents 
returned to the valley of Nepaul in November, 1816, but the Chinese generals 
continued for some time longer at Teshoo Loomboo. At length the Choon- 
choon, or commander-in-chief, marched with the greater part of his army to- 
wards Pekin, leaving detachments of 500 men at Tingri, Kootee, and a place 
above Kheroo, and also about 1000 men at Teshoo Loomboo. With respect to 
Nepaul, the Chinese were probably themselves sensible of the inconvenience 
and embarrassment attending a distant conquest, opening to them new relations 
and connexions, the cultivation of which could scarcely be consistent with their 
long-established maxims of political wisdom. On the other hand, no motives 
of interest or ambition prompt the British government to extend its influence 
beyond the barriers which appear to have been placed by nature between the 
vast countries of China and Hindostan. 

On the 29>th of July, 1816, Ammer Singh Thappa, the distinguished Gorkha 
commander, who fought so hardily against Sir David Ochterlony, died, aged 
68, at Neil Kanth, a place of reputed sanctity, five days’ journey north of Cat- 
mandoo. iLike a second Hannibal, this veteran, up to the last day of his life, was 
actively engaged in negociations and intrigues (principally with China) with the 
view of raising up enemies against the conquerors of his country. Two of his 
widows devoted themselves on the occasion, one having sacrificed herself on 
the spot; the other, in 1816, was under preparation for burning at a temple 
named Pushpoonath, within the valley of Catmandoo. On the 20th of No*- 
vember, ^ 816 , the Raja *f Nepaul, while the ministers and principal persona of 
his court were deliberating regarding thie expediency of having him vaccinated, 
died of the small-pox, caught m the natural way, at the early age of 21 years, 
One of bis Rennies, or queens, one of his concubines, and five female attendin', t* 
von. n. 



690 NEPAUL. [catmandoo. 

were burned alive along with the corpse. The last words of the unfortunate 
Ranny were collected and treasured up, as whatever a Sutt ; (a wife burning 
with her husband) utters is supposed to be prophetic. The deceased Raja left 
one son, three years of age, named Rajindra Bickram Sah, who succeeded to the 
throne, under the guardianship of the minister, Bheem Singh Thappa, without 
bloodshed, or disturbance; a circumstance unprecedented in the annals of 
Nepaul. — (F. Buchanan, Kirkpatrick, Knox , Princep, Gardner , N. Macleod , Pub- 
lic MS. Documents , J. Alnnuty, §c. §c. §c.) j 

Catmandoo (Cathmandu ). — The capital of Nepaul and residence of the 
Gorkha Raja, which, according to barometrical observations, stands 4784 feet 
above the level of the plains of Bengal. Lat. 27° 42' N. long. 85° E. This 
place is situated on the east side of the Bisbenmutty, along which it extends 
about a mile ; but its breadth is inconsiderable, nowhere exceeding half a mile, 
and seldom above a quarter of a mile. The name by which it is distinguished in 
ancient books is Goongoolpatan ; the Newars call it Yendaise, and the Parbut- 
ties, or mountaineers, Kathipoor, a name derived, it is said, from its numerous 
wooden temples. These appear to differ nothing from the wooden mundubs, or 
mandirs, occasionally met with in other parts of India, and are principally re- 
markable for their number and size. Besides these, there are many brick 
temples with three or four sloping roofs. Near the Rajas palace is the shrine 
of Tulasi Bhavani, who, conjointly with Gorakhanath, is the tutelar deity of the 
family^ There is no image, the deity being represented by a Yantra, or cabba- 
listical figure ; and in order to impress the multitude with awe, no person is 
admitted within the shrine except the Raj a, the Ranny, their spiritual guide, and 
the officiating priest. 

The houses are of brick and tile, with pitched or pent roofs towards the 
streets. They are of two, three, and four stories, and almost without exception, 
of a mean appearance, the Raja’s house, though large, being but a sorry build- 
ing. The streets are very narrow and nearly as filthy as those of Benares. The 
number of houses has been estimated at less than 5000, and the total population 
at 20,000. 

Among the most remarkable mountains seen from hence is Mount Dhaibun, 
distant about 35 geographical miles. According to calculation, this mountain 
is 20,140 feet above the stations of Sambhu and the Queen’s Gardens near Oat- 
mandoo, which latter are 4500 feet above the level of the sea. Another moun- 
tain, nearly in the position of one named by General Kirkpatrick Cala Bhairava, 
has an elevation of 18,662 feet above Catmandoo. Both of these mountains, &nd 
others in their vicinity, are visible from Patna; the first at a distance of 16$ 
geographical miles, and the second of 153 geographical miles.' Mountains still 



BHATGONG.] NEPAUL. 691 

more remote in this direction are seen in the north-east quarter at the prodi- 
gious distance of 195 geographical miles from Patna. In the vicinity of Cat- 
mandoo, Mount Chandar Giri stands 3682 feet above that city and 8466 above 
the level of the sea; Mount Palchoo, 4210 feet above the city, 8994 above the 
level of the sea. At Catmandoo, in the months of December and January, the 
mean height of the barometer is 25° 28', the thermometer being 52°. The first 
seldom alters so much as one-tenth of an inch, and never more than one-tenth 
and a half, in the course of the day, nor during the whole season so much as 
two-tenths for the same hour of the day. — ( Colcbrooke , F. Buchanan, Kirkpa- 
trick, <§'C.) 

Lalita Patan. — A principal city of the Nepaul valley, situated about one 
mile and a half south of Catmandoo. Lat. 27° 40' N. long. 85° E. This city 
stands in a small but rather elevated plain, at the distance of a mile and a half 
from the south end of Catmandoo, the two capitals being separated from each 
other by the Bhagmutty river. While Lalita Patan existed as an independent 
state, it is said to have comprehended 24,000 houses, including its dependancies 
within the valley, of which the Patan chief possessed a greater portion than fell 
to the share of the Catmandoo and Bhatgong Rajas. The above number ap- 
pears to be considerably exaggerated, but Lalita still continues the largest town 
of the valley, with a population of about 24,000 souls. The former dominions 
of the Patan Raja beyond the valley stretched southerly, comprehending Chit- 
long, Tambekkan, Cheesapany, and some other places in the same direction. It 
is on the whole a neater town than Catmandoo, and contains some very hand- 
some edifices. — (Kirkpatrick, 1\ Buchanan , §c.) 

Bhatgong. — The third city of the Nepaul valley, and before the Gorkha 
conquest the seat of an independent chief. Lat. 27° 40' N. long. 85° 8' E. eight 
miles E. by S. from Catmandoo. In size it is the most inconsiderable of the 
three, being rated at only 12,000 houses, which number is probably much exag- 
gerated. The palace and other buildings are rather of a striking appearance, 
owing chiefly to the excellent quality of the bricks, which are the best in Ne- 
paul — a country remarkable for the superiority of its bricks and tiles. Its 
ancient name was Dharmapatan, and it is called by the Newars Khopodaise, 
who describe it as resembling the dumbroo, or guitay of Siva. The former 
sovereigns of this petty state possessed the smallest share of the valley, but 
their dominions extended a considerable way eastward to the banks of the Cosi. 
Bhatgong is the Benares of the Gorkha dominions, and was supposed to contain 
many valuable Sanscrit manuscripts ; none of which, however, have ever been 
discovered. It is also the favourite residence of the Nepaul Brahmins, contain- 
ing more families of that caste than Catmandoo and Lalita Patan together ; but 

4 t 2 



692 NEPAUL. [noakote. 

their reputation for either learning or devotion is but ‘slender. Of the lower 
classes, a great proportion are Newars, the Khetri, or military caste, flocking to 
the capital for employment. The total population has been estimated at 12,000 
souls. — ( Kirkpatrick, F \ Buchanan , <£ ;c.) 

Kirthipoor. — A considerable town in the Nepaul valley^ about 6 miles 
W. S. W. from Catmandoo. Lat. 27° 40' N. long. 84* 54' E. This place was 
once the residence of an independent prince, 'although at the period of the 
Gorkha invasion it wavS included in the territory of Patan. At present it does 
not contain more than 6000 inhabitants. This part of the valley seems consi- 
derably above the level of Catmandoo. j 

When Prithi Narrain, the Gorkha Raja, took Kirthipoor, in 1768, he Was so 
enraged at the long and obstinate defence made by the inhabitants, that he 
ordered the noses and lips of all the survivors to be cut off, without exception of 
age or sex, and the name of the city to be changed to Nascatapoor, or the city 
of cut noses. Ttis humane edict appears to have been strictly enforced, as 23 
years afterwards. Colonel Kirkpatrick, the British ambassador at Nepaul, found 
many persons who had outlived the mutilation. — ( Kirkpatrick , Father Gui - 
seppe, %c.) 

Chitlong. — The chief town of the smaller valley named Lahory Nepaul, 
which formerly belonged to the Raja of Lalita Patan. Lat. 27° 38' N. long. 
84° 49' E. This town contains a few well built brick and tiled houses of two 
and three stories, but is of inconsiderable size, although the first in the Nepaul 
country that has the appearance of a town to the traveller coming from the 
south. It is principally inhabited by Newars. During the dynasty of the Newar 
princes of the name of Mull, Chitlong was for some time a dependancy of the 
Lalita Patan sovereignty, and had a district annexed to it containing several 
populous villages. The winters here are never severe, and at that season the 
fields produce a crop of wheat, while in summer they yield one of rice. The 
pasture, however, is very inferior to that of Europe, although much better than 
that of the low country named the Terriani. — ( Kirkpatrick , 8$c. 8$c.) 

Tambehkana. — A small village situated in the narrow part of the valley, 
inhabited by mountain Hindoos, near to which is a productive copper mine. 
Lat. 27° 35' N. long. 84° 46' E. 

Thancote. — A small town well supplied with wood and water, seven miles 
west of Catmandoo, situated on a rocky eminence at the south-west comer of 
the Nepaul valley, in a district separated from the other parts of the plain by a 
low ridge of hills, on the most conspicuous part of which stands Kirthipoor as 
above described. Lat. 27° 41' N. long. 84° 54' E. 

Noakote ( Navacata , the New Fort). — A town of Nepaul Proper, situated on 



NILKANTHA.] NEPAUL. 693 

a. hill on thf east side of the Trisoolgunga, 17 miles N. by W. from Catmandoo. 
Lat. 27° 53 N. long. 85° 50' E. This place is not of any great extent, but it 
contains some of the largest and best looking houses in Nepaul. Its situation is 
also of importance as commanding the only entrance into this quarter from 
Upper as well as from Lower Tibet, and standing close to mount Dhyboon, by 
which the Chinese army was obliged to descend in 1792, when penetrating into 
Nepaul. The temple of Noakote is dedicated to Mahamaya, or Bhavani, and is 
a brick-built building on the face of a hill, with nothing remarkable in its appear- 
ance. From the roof there are numerous offerings to the goddess suspended, 
consisting principally of brass vessels and weapons of various sorts, among the 
latter some trophies acquired from the Chinese. 

The valley of Noakote is about six miles in length by one and a quarter in 
breadth. The soil is extremely fruitful, and notwithstanding its ^proximity to 
the snowy mountains, which enclose it to the northward, it is capable of bearing 
all the vegetable productions of the province of Bahar. The Trisoolgunga river, 
which passes it, is held in particular estimation. This valley, although so near 
to the hills, is reckoned one of the least elevated of Nepaul, which accounts for 
its greater temperature as compared with that of Catmandoo, from whence the 
court frequently migrate to pass the winter at Noakote. After the middle of 
April it is scarcely habitable on account of the heat. Besides rice, considerable 
quantities of sugar-cane are raised in the valley of Noakote and its neighbour- 
hood, and the gour, or brown sugar, is here brought to market in a more refined 
state than is usual in Bengal. The garlic has remarkably large cloves, and the 
pine apples, guavas, and mangoes, are excellent. — ( Kirkpatrick , 8$c.) 

Dhayabung. — A large village chiefly occupied by Bhooteas, and situated on 
a high hill at Bitrawa Ghaut Lat. 28° 5' N. long. 84° 50' E. 30 miles N. N. W. 
from Catmandoo. 

Nilkantha. — A town of pilgrimage, said to be eight days’ journey north 
of Catmandoo, although only 37 miles of horizontal distance. Lat. 28° 22' N. 
long. 85° 4' E. This place is visited about the end of July and beginning of 
August, yet the road is scarcely passable on account of the great depth of snow ; 
avalanches being common and glaciers of frequent occurrence. During this 
short period a fair is held, and many shops opened, but when the cold season 
sets in, it is abandoned by all, who seek a milder climate. According to native 
reports, there are eight springs here, one of which is hot. Another pool, named 
Suryacund, is about a mile further east, and immediately beyond it rises the 
immense peak of Gosain Sthan, from the east side of which a branch of the 
Causiki issues. The name (Nilkantha) pieans blue throat, an epithet of Siva, 
originating from an exploit performed by him while the gods were churning 



694 NEPAUL. [GORKHA, 

the ocejan, and related at great length in the Hindoo mythological poems. — ( F. 
Buchanan, Kirkpatrick, §c. 8$c.) 

THE TWENTY-FOUR RAJAS. 

% Immediately west from Nepaul Proper is a country of considerable extent, 
which had long consisted of 24 petty estates, whose chiefs were collectively 
called the 24 Rajas, yet they do not appear to have ever had any common 
system of defence, or even to have been connected by any common extraction. 
They all indeed acknowledged the superiority of the Jemlah Raja, who had 
.besides many others in a similar state of dependance, which conferred, however, 
scarcely any authority on the nominal superior, whose power appears to have 
been limited to exhortation, and the right of bestowing the tica, or m^rk of 
supreme authority, on the heirs of each chief, which they could also do without. 
His superior rank, however, was never called in question, and his mediation 
probably procrastinated the subjugation of all the petty chiefs to one, as at last 
happened. According to the most authentic list, the 24 Rajas consisted of the 
following chiefs, commencing at the Trisoolgunga river and proceeding west- 
ward : — 

1. Gorkha. D. Gharahang. 17. Gulmi. 

2. Tanahung. 10. Nayacot. 18. Mussikot. 

3. Palpa. 11. Satahung. 19. Tarki. 

4. Rising. 12. Poin. 20. Khachi. 

5. Ghiring. 13. Lamjun. 21. Argha. 

6. Gajarcot. 14. Kaski. 22. Dhurkot. 

7. Dhor. 15. Malebum. 23. Isma. 

8. Bhirkot. 16. Galkot. 24. Peytahn, or Puithana. 

Several of these chiefs had entered with others into leagues of mutual de- 
fence, and some leagues were connected by common descent in the chiefs, such 
as the Athabhai, or Eight Brothers, and the Satbhai, or Seven Brothers .^— ( F 
Buchanan , Kirkpatrick , §c.) 

Gorkha. — A town and district of Northern Hindostan, the original country 
of the present dynasty of Nepaul. Lat. 27° 52' N. long. 84 c 22' E. 41 miles W. 
N. W. from Catmandoo. Prior to the conquest of Nepaul by Raja Prithi Nar- 
rain, the Trisoolgunga river separated the territories of the Gorkha and Newar 
(or Nepaulese) princes, the western limits of the first being marked by the 
Marichangdi. The Gorkha district, although situated more to the north, is 
rather warmer than the Nepaul valley, and is like it watered by various ferti- 
lizing mountain streams, which are all ultimately absorbed by the Trisoolgunga, 
the decimation of the country being in that direction. Its chief inhabitants 
formerly were Brahmins and Khasiyas, in about equal numbers, with rather 



TAN AH UNO.] NEPAUL. 6Q5 

fewer M agars, the Brahmins being the chief cultivators, the Khasiyas and Ma- 
gars the fighting men; but many of the last have since transferred their residence 
to Catmandoo, where they constitute the main support of the present govern- 
ment. 

Gorkha, the capital, stands on a high hill, and is said to be the only place of 
note in the territory. According to native reports, for it does not appear to 
have been ever visited by Europeans, it contains about 2000 houses, and the 
temple of Gorakhanath, who is one of the tutelar deities of the reigning princes. 

The Sah family, which has risen to such extraordinary eminence, and for two 
Whole campaigns contended on terms of equality with the British government, 
pretend to be descended from the Rajpoot princes of Odeypoor, but this must 
be considered a mere fable, as on the arrival of the original Hindoo colony from 
the south, they were certainly of the tribe of unconverted mountaineers named 
Magars. One of its branches, however, has long adopted the Hindoo rules of 
purity, and has intermarried with the best families, but the other remains wal- 
lowing in all the mire of primitive impurity. The first persons of the Gorkha 
family of whom there is any tradition were two brothers, Khancha and Mincha, 
names altogether barbarous, and in no respect resembling the high sounding 
titles of the family of the Sun, from which the modern chiefs claim descent. 
From these, various obscure chiefs descended, for the Gorkhas being cut off 
from any direct communication with either the low country or Tibet, and having 
neither mines, nor productions suited for commercial exchange, were always 
considered insignificant until Nurbhupal procured in marriage first a daughter 
of the Palpa family, and secondly a daughter of the sixth son of the chief of 
Malebum. His son, Prithi Narrain, commenced the aggrandizement of the 
family by the conquest, in 176B, of Nepaul Proper, under which head further 
historical details will be found narrated. On the accomplishment of that under- 
taking, the seat of government was transferred to Catmandoo, and being fol- 
lowed by many of the natives, Gorkha, the original capital, has been much 
neglected, and has in consequence greatly declined. — (F. Buchanan , Kirkpa- 
trick, (Sfc . ) 

Tanahung. — A small district intersected by many Streams, and whose chief 
was formerly one of the 24 Rajas. While independent, his country consisted, 
of two portions, one of the hills that surround Gorkha on the west and south, 
arid the other in the valley of the Rapty, which is adjacent to the southern por- 
tion of what is on the hills, and was inhabited by the common Hindoos of 
Mitbila or Tirhoot. It contains the pergunnahs Chitan, Belan, and Sengjhayat 
the two first of which are tolerably cultivated. The mountains of Tannahung 
were inhabited by the same races as Palpa, and nearly in the same proportions 



NEPAUL. 


696 


[palp A, 


Its southern division contained three towns, Yogimara, Upadrang, and Kayilas, 
the first of which is said to be large, and a military station of some importance. 
No chief resisted with such gallantry and effect the rising power of Prithi Narrain 
of Gorkha, who, in 17G9, having completed his conquest of Nepaul Proper, 
attacked the petty chiefs west of the Trisoolgunga, usually called the 24 Rajas. 
For some time he had rapid success, but being defeated in a decisive battle, he 
was compelled to, relinquish his conquest, nor was any attempt afterwards made 
to extend the dominions of Gorkha to the west, until the Raja of Palpa was 
gained, on this event the overthrow of Tanahung took place, but the Raja made 
his escape to the British district of Sarun, where his family still retain in secqi;ity 
a small remnant of their former possessions. The Tanahung family, as well as 
the Palpa branch, is very generally admitted to be descended of the Chitore, s^nd 
to be one of the highest and purest tribes on the hills east of the Cali. — ( F \ Bu- 
chanan, §c.) 

Palpa. — A district in the Nepaulese dominions bounded on the south by the 
British district of Goruckpoor. The country of Palpa independent of Butool is 
in general lower and warmer than the valley of Nepaul Proper. The most im- 
portant crop is transplanted rice, next to that broadcast rice, then maize, then 
the pulse called urid, after that the lathyrus sativus, called dubi keras, the 
maruya, the masuri, four kinds of sesamum and cruciform oil seeds, like mustard 
and rape, three kinds of pulse called kurthi, and a little of two grains called 
sama and kodo. There are many routes from the plains to the hills of Palpa, 
but, except by a few smugglers, most of these have been deserted since the 
Gorkha conquest, that people being desirous of having few open' routes by which 
an army from the low countries might penetrate into the hills, which system has 
also the effect, by diminishing the passages, of economizing the collection of the 
revenue. In conformity with these views, the Gorkhas have, as far as lay in 
their power, stopped every pass except that of Butool, which has in conse- 
quence become a considerable mart, although most inconveniently situated. 

The Palpa Rajas possessed also a very important mart named Rerighaut, 
situated on the banks of the Gunduck, here called the Narayani. The only 
practicable roads in the country pass this way, and the situation is of import- 
ance both in a military and commercial point of view. During the cold season 
there is a fair or mela held at Rerighaut, which lasts s everal months, and is fre* 
quented by tiader$ from all parts of the mountains. It is said that loaded 
canoes can pass up the Gunduck the whole way to Rerighaut, except at a nar- 
row rapid between two rocks at a place named Gongkar, a tittle above Dew- 
ghaut, where there is a portage. Timber in floating down thin paaflQgc is liable 
to fall across the channel, and to stick between the rocks, this m*y he prevented 



DAEAHANG.] NEPAUL. 697 

by tying a rape to one extremity of the logs so as to allow them to float down 
end on* Canoes can ascend to Dewghaut with little difficulty, although three 
rapids intervene, one above Bhelonij, to which large boats can go with ease, a 
second at the junction of the Arhung, and a third at Kheriyani near Dewghaut; 
but even in the dry season canoes or small boats can be dragged up loaded. In 
floods this navigation is altogether unadvisable, the river being then of tremen- 
dous volume and rapidity. Near Tansen, the present capital, there was formerly 
a mine of iron, and since the conquest a copper mine as been discovered in the 
same place, which, in 1809, is said to have produced metal to the value of 
50,000 rupees. Lead is also found in the small territory of Khidim. 

According to native traditions, when the Hindoo colony from Chitore first took 
possession of Palpa, it belonged to a Magar chief, and the people were of that 
tribe. Brahmins, but mostly of the spurious breed called Jausi, are now the 
most numerous class, next to these are the Khas, while the Magars occupy 
only the third place. In the year 1801, Prithi Pal Sen, who as Raja of Palpa 
had long held the low lands of Butool in the Gorucpoor district as a zemindary 
under the Nabob Vizier, had been «ix years confined at Catmandoo. He was 
afterwards liberated, and again imprisoned by Raja Run Bahadur Sah, on the 
latter s return from Benares. After the assassination of Run Bahadur in 1805, 
Prithi Pal and 14 others were put to death at Catmandoo on a charge of con- 
spiracy. Since the Nepaul Raja seized on this country, the seat of government 
has been transferred to Tansen, a town at some distance west of Palpa, which 
in 1809 was the head quarters of the Gorkha commander and his staff civil and 
military . — ( F. Buchanan , Public MS . Documents, 8$c.) 

Rising. — A petty chiefship occupied by a branch of the Tanahung family, 
formerly one of the 24 Rajaships, but at present subjected to the Nepaulese go- 
vernment. Lat. 27°48'N. long. 84° E. 60 miles W. from Catmandoo. The 
' image of Siva, in the temple named Makundeswar from the founder, attracts 
considerable assemblies of votaries at particular periods. — (F. Buchanan , fyc,) 

Bhirxot. — A petty state consisting of mountains, and containing neither 
mines nor mart of any consequence, formerly one of the 24 Rajaships, but 'at 
present subject to the Nepaulese. Lat. 27° 58' N. long. 83°48 / E. 78 miles W. 
N. W. from Catmandoo. 

Oakahang.— A petty state in local and political circumstances exactly resem- 
bling Bhirkot. The capital, o** Raja’s residence, is situated on the top of a hill, but 
Without water nearer than a mile and a half. The chief’s castle is there, built! 
of bricks, and surrounded by 60 or 70 huts. Lat. 27° 56 N. Iona. 83° 35" E. 
80 miles west of Catm&ndoo. — ( F. Buchanan , ) 

von. n , 4u 



698 NEPAUL. [uwov, 

Malebaugh. — A small town in the Gorkha territories, 40 miles west from 
the town of Gorkha. Lat. 27°53'N. long. 83° 44' E. 

Dhor. — The territory of this very petty state is mountainous, but is said to 
oontain some iron mines. Lat. 27° 56' N. long. 83° 50' E. 73 miles W, of Gat* 
mandoo. 

Nayacot. — Before the Gorkha conquest this petty state was of very insig- 
nificant dimensions, and contained no mines of consequence, but, besides the 
capital, possessed a town of some mote named Limi. Lat. 28° 8' N. long.' 83° 45' 
E. 80 miles W. N. W . from Catmandoo. 

Satahung. — The capital of this small rajaship is situated on a hill, and 
formerly contained 250 thatched huts, besides the brick castle of the cUjef, in 
whose whole territories there were supposed to be but 1500 houses, yielding a 
land revenue of 2000 rupees per annum. Lat. 28° 7'N. long. 83° 42' E. 79 biles 
W. N. W. from Catmandoo. 

Point. — Formerly the residence of one of the 24 Rajas, is situated on a high 
hill, where much snow falls, and the cold is intense. Lat. 28° 9' N. long. 83° 30' 
E. 100 miles N. W. of Catmandoo. According to native accounts, this capital 
contains 120 houses, and the whole territory 2000 ; but the tract is said to con- 
tain copper and iron mines, which formerly yielded the Raja 4000 rupees per 
annum.— (F. Buchanan , %c.) 

Lamjun. — One of the 24 Rajaships, which, before the Gorkha predominance, 
comprehended a tract of cold country bordering on the Himalaya, inhabited 
chiefly by Bhooteas, with some Brahipins and Khaseyas in the warmer vallies. 
It contained fio mine or town of importance except Lamjun, the capital, which 
is situated in lat. 28° 12' N. long. 84° l'E. 32 miles N.W. from Gorkha, which 
city was then included within the limits of the Lamjun dominions. After the 
loss of Gorkha, the chief advantage that remained to the Lama chief was the 
commerce with Tibet, which was carried on through a passage in the Himalaya, 
called Siklik, by which route many goods were conveyed to the town of Lam* 
jun, and from thence by the way of Tarker, Tanahung, Bewghaut, and B&kra, 
into the low country ; but this trade has since been interdicted by the Nepaulese 
chiefe, who are jealous of the Tanahung Raja, to whom Bakra is preserved under 
British protection. Siklik, however, is still the abode of a Nepaulese soubah, 
or ciYil governor. The name merely implies a frontier station, but among the 
hills it is used also to designate a place inhabited by barbarians, that is, such as 
reject the doctrines of the Brahmins. In both senses the term is applicable to 
Siklik, as its inhabitants, Bhooteas and Gurungs, adhere to the doctrines of the 
Lamas, and the town marks the frontier towards the Chinese empire.—^ JR Jh- 
chanan, 8fc.) 



MALEBCM.] NEPAUL. 609 

Kaski. — One of the 24 Rajaships now absorbed in the Nepaulese dominions. 
Although adjacent to the regions covered with perpetual snow, the southern 
parts are said to be rather wanner than the valley of Nepaul Proper, but the 
tracts close to the snowy peaks were formerly (and probably still are) inhabited 
by Bhooteas and some Gurungs. The warmer portions were occupied by Brah- 
mins, Khaseyas, and low tribes exercising the occupations of artizans. The 
chief possessed some mines of copper, and, besides the capital, according to 
native accounts, there is still a considerable mart named Pokhara, much fre- 
quented by traffickers from Nepaul, Palpa, Malebum, &c. The modern capital, 
named Buttolachoor is situated among the hills on the river Seti. Kaski, the 
ancient capital, stands in lat. 28°.14'N. long. 83° 50' E. 42 miles N. W. from 
Gorkha. — (F. Buchanan, 8$c.) 

Malebum. — The chief of this district has been sometimes classed among the 
22 Rajas, and his country frequently called Parbut, from the immense mountains 
it contains. Malebum, the principal town, is situated at the junction (beni) of 
the Mayangdi with the Narayani, on which account it is frequently named Be- 
nishehr, while Dhoral is the name of the redoubt by which it is commanded, 
Malebum being a term applicable to both. The country was conquered by the 
Gorkhas during the regency of Bahadur Sah, on which event the existing Raja 
and his son retired to Bulrampoor, in the Nabob of Oudeis dominions. 

Malebum is a very elevated cold country of considerable extent, one-fourth 
of the whole being occupied by mountains covered with perpetual snow. Ac- 
cording to native accounts, it contains mines of sulphur, cinnabar, iron, copper, 
and, some allege, of zinc, and also the remarkable hot springs of Muktinath. The 
copper mines are said to be very productive, large quantities being sent to the 
plains, besides what is used in the country and in Tibet. There are three mines 
of mica, and rock chrystal is found in several parts of considerable size. Gold 
dust k collected from the sands of several rivers, and especially of the Krishna 
Gunduck, the Narayani, the Bakhugar, the Modi, and the Mayangdi. 

Malebum in its greatest dimensions has been supposed to contain 100,000 
of whom three-fourths are Gurungs occupying the tracts west and 
aotthof the capital. The country is cultivated with the hoe, and the principal 
Crops are barley, uya (uncertain whether rye or a species of hill rice), eleasine 
corocsnus, panicum italicum, and phapar (uncertain). The country to the south 
and east of the capital is called Khasant, inhabited principally by Brahmins of 
a bastard race (Jausis), who plough and carry burthens, Khasiyas, and various 
Hindoos of low birth. The houses in general have stone walls, and are covered 
with thatch. Malebum, the chief town, stands on the west bank of the Gun- 

4 o2 



700 NEPAUL. [isma. 

duck, here 30 yards broad, in lat. 28° 32' N. long. 83° 13' E. 80 miles N* W. from 
Gorkha. — (F. Buchanan , &;c.) 

> Galkot. — This is a territory of small extent, but it contains three mines of 
copper and one of iron. Although a cooler country than the valley of Nepaul, 
it is said to be the best cultivated in these parts, partly with the hoe and partly 
with the plough. While one of the 24 Independent Rajaships, the chiefs share of 
the revenue, including the mines, amounted to 3500 rupees per annum. The 
whole number of inhabitants were reckoned to occupy 3000 houses, half of 
whom were low tribes of cultivators and tradesmen, one-fourth Khasiyas, and 
one-fourth Brahmins and Rajpoots. The chief s hogise, named Galkot, sur- 
rounded by about 500 huts, stands on a hill in lat. 28° 17' N. long. 83° 14^ E. 76 
miles W. N. W. from Gorkha. — ( F. Buchanan , §c.) 

Gulmi. — Formerly one of the 24 Rajaships, but now absorbed in the Gbrkha 
dominions. Gulmi, the capital, is situated on a hill, in lat. 28° ll'N. long. 28° 
17' E. 85 miles W. N. W. from Gorkha. The castle is built of brick and covered 
with tiles, and the town formerly contained 500 houses, mostly thatched, and 
a part of the great hill mart named Rerighaut belonged to the chief of Gulmi. Ac- 
cording to native accounts, his territory contains mines of zinc, cinnabar; and 
copper. In Gulmi and Balihang, one half of the people are Khasiyas, one-eighth 
Brahmins, and the remainder impure tribes of cultivators and artificers. The 
principal crop among the Gulmi hills is rice, which is reaped in the beginning of 
their winter. — (F. Buchanan , tyc.) 

Khachi. — This was formerly one of the most considerable of the 24 Rajaships, 
but now belongs to the Nepaulese. The town of Khachi stands on a hill, plenti- 
fully supplied with water, in lat. 28° 4' N. long. 82° 50' E. 100 miles west from 
Gorkha. It is said to contain about 300 houses, mostly thatched, besides the 
chiefs house* which is built of brick. While independent, the Raja’s share of 
the land revenue amounted to 4000 rupees, and from his possessions in the 
plains he annually received from .500 to 1500 rupees, according to circumstances. 
(F. Buchanan , S?cJ 

Argha.— This place stands on a hill, on the summit of which, surrounding 
the chiefs castle, are about 150 houses, with 350 near the middle of the ascent, 
all with mud walls and thatched roofs, Water is plentiful in the lower town* 
about a quarter of a mile distant from the upper. The inhabitants (with the ex- 
ception of a few Brahmins and Rajpoots) are one half Khasiyas, and die other 
half impure cultivators and tradesmen. Lat. 28° 15' N. long, 82 9 47' E. 110 
miles W. N. W. from Gorkha,— f F. Buchanan , 8fc.) 

Isma. — One of the 24 Rajaships, the last chief of which resided at a fortress 



chhilli,] NEPAUL. 701 

.situated on a hill of very difficult access, and surrounded by about 250 thatched 
houses, with walls of stone or plank. Lat. 28° 28' N. long, 82° 26' E. 116 miles 
W. N* W. from Gorkha. The country contains neither mines nor marts, but 
both here and in Musikot corundum is found in detached masses, generally 
under five pounds weight, either on the surface, or mixed with the soil ; but it 
has never been rendered a source of revenue to the government. — ( F. Bu- 
chanan, 8$c.) 

PfeYTAHN (or Puithana ). — This was formerly one of the most considerable of 
the 24 Rajaships, whose chief was followed in war by several others, but it is 
now like the rest comprehended in the territories of Nepaul. The hilly tract 
contains no mines of value, but the Raja possessed a considerably zemindary on 
the plains. The town of Peytahn stands on a hill in lat. 28° 35' N. long. 82° 4' E. 
60 miles S. E. from Jemlah. Round the chief's house, which was built of brick, 
there were formerly 400 houses, mostly mud-walled with thatched roofs, having 
the Rapty river passing on the south side. The whole territory on the hills and 
plains contained about 2500 houses, the inhabitants of which were five-six- 
teenths Khasiyas, three-sixteenths Brahmins, and the remainder low cultivators 
and tradesmen. — (F. Buchanan , 8fc.) 

Deucar. — A town in the Nepaulese dominions, 51 miles N. E. from 
Baraitche. Lat. 28° 8' N. long. 82° E. 

Twenty-two Rajas. — West from the channel of the Rapty an extensive re- 
gion commences, usually termed by the natives the country of the 22 Rajas, but 
respecting the interior of which very little is known, it never having been the 
theatre of European warfare, or explored by any native of that continent. Each 
petty Rajaship was of course designated from the residence of the chief, but of 
most of these even the site remains a matter of conjecture. The following very 
imperfect list contains the names of some of the principal chiefships, the whole 
of which have been long subordinate to the Gorkha dynasty ef Nepaul: — 

Chhilli. Jahari. Gajal. 

Dang. Dharma. Bangphi. 

Saliana. Rolpah. Jajarcote. 

M alan eta. Rugun. Jemlah. 

Satatala. Messikot. Duti, 

Chhilli*— This small territory is situated partly on the plains and partly on 
the hills bordering the Nabob of Oude’s territories, about 95 miles N. N. E. 
from Lucknow. The chiefs house is situated on a hill, where it is surrounded 
%y 200 huts apd houses. He is subject to the Gorkhas, who are said to have 
permitted him to retain the management of his own estates. 



NEPAUL. 


702 


[dooloo bussundab. 


Dang. — T his small tract, situated about 100 miles N. N. W. from Lucknow,, 
and is bounded on the south by the Nabob of Oude's territories. The Rajas 
formerly lired on a high hill named Dang, but for some generations they had 
withdrawn to Phalabamb, situated on a hill immediately overhanging the plain, 
and consisting of huts with wood and mud walls, the chief’s house alone being 
built of brick. On the hills were several mines of iron, but the most valuable 
portion of the Dang Raja’s estate was on the plain, and consisted of the per- 
gunnah of Toolseepoor, situated within the dominions of Oude. A part of this, 
called the Bhitari Terriani, is separated from the great plain of India by i small 
ridge of hills. Bahadur Sah, the regent of Nepaul, tqok the hills of Dang and 
gave them to his sister, the Ranny of Saliana ; but Phalabamb, or New pang, 
was protected by the Nabob Vizier, and the family still continue Rajas of Tool- 
seepoor. — ( F. Buchanan, 8$c.) 

Rolpah. — A town in the Nepaulese dominions, 45 miles S. E. from Jemlah. 
Lat. 28° 45' N. long. 81° 47' E. 

Saliana (or Khasant). — This tract, named also Khasant, adjoins the Nabob 
Vizier’s dominions, the capital being situated in lat. 28° 37' N. long. 81° 5' E. 
120 miles N. by W. from Lucknow. The town of Saliana stands 'on a high hill, 
where the chief has a brick house surrounded by mud-walled huts. The Raja 
of Saliana formerly held also some land on the plain within the Oude territories, 
and in a valley between the hills had a considerable mart, called Jarapani, or 
cool water, which is still a considerable thoroughfare. All the estates among the 
hills being seized on by the Gorkhas, the family sought refuge on their posses- 
sions in the plains subject to the Nabob Vizier, with whose dominions, for some 
reason not very obvious, the Gorkhas have never interfered. Why they respect 
them more than those of the East India Company has never been ascertained, 
but that they do so is certain. The inhabitants of Saliana are five-eighths 
Khasiyas, or bastards of various kinds, one-eighth pure Brahmins, one-sixteenth 
bastard Brahmins, and three-sixteenths, consist of various impure tribes. — 
(F. Buchanan, fyc.) 

Jajarcote ( Jhatjhara Cata, the bamboo fortress). — This is a hilly tract of 
country, situated between the Goggra and Bahari, but although within a few 
miles of the Nabob Vizier’s dominions very little is known respecting it; indeed 
scarcely two natives assign the same name to it. The principal town is at Ma- 
thagari, where the Nepaulese since their conquest have built a fort. The town 
of Jajarcote stands in lat. 26° 5T N. long. 81° 8' E. 135 miles N. by W*. from 
Lucknow. — (F. Buchanan, Sp,) 

Dooloo Bussotrnaa (Dalu Basandra ). — A Hindoo place of pilgrimage, 



IBHUH,} nepaul* 70S 

where there are three coonds or hot springs. According to native accounts 
a flame appears on the surface of the water above the small holes from whence 
the water issues. 

Jemlah (Yumila ). — To the north of Jajarcote is an extensive country named 
Jemlah, which, towards the west, was once bounded by Gurwal, and towards 
the east by Mustung ; but large territories have since been seized by the 
neighbouring princes, and the whole latterly absorbed in the Nepaulese domi- 
nions, According to the account of an intelligent native, after passing the hilly 
boundary which separates it from Jajarcote, a fine valley cut with deep ravines is 
entered, said to extend 20 miles from east to west and 10 from north to south, 
in many respects resembling that of Nepaul, but more chequered with low hills. 
This tract is well cultivated, producing wheat, barley, pease, lentiles, and maize; 
but it is too cold for the sugar cane. Besides the plain in which Chinachin is 
built, the Jemlah Rajas held a great extent of narrow vallies and mountains, 
many of the latter perpetually covered with snow. One of the most important 
productions of Jemlah is salt, which is said to come from a place named 
Mukhola, reckoned 90 or 100 miles road distance from Chinachin, towards the 
north-east. It is said by the natives, that at Mukhola there is a large space con- 
taining many pools, which in winter are covered with snow, and in summer with 
a saline encrustation. One-fourth of the inhabitants of this country are Brah- 
mins, Rajpoots, and Khasiyas, who follow the Brahminical doctrines ; but the 
Bhooteas are the most numerous, and along with the Gurungs, Rohanies, Khaties 
and Rahals, all impure tribes, make up the remaining three-fourths, who are 
mostly adherents of the Lamas. The language spoken at the court of the Jemlah 
Raja is the Khas, but the dialect differs so much from that of Palpa and Gorkha, 
that even the titles of the chief officers of government are totally different, 
although regulated by the same forms of administration. 

The chiefs of Jemlah are descended from a family of very pure Rajpoots, 
which is reported to have penetrated into these hills about 500 years ago. For 
many years they appear to have reigned paramount over the whole territory be- 
tween the Cali river and Nepaul; but their authority was very limited, their 
subjects frequently levying war not only against each other but against their 
sovereign ; nor was there any assembly of states to which he could recur for 
assistance against a common enemy. When Run Bahadur, the regent of Nepaul, 
attacked Jemlah, he was opposed by Sobhan Sahi, who for two years resisted 
the Gorkha troops ; but the superior discipline and tactics of the latter at last 
effected the expulsion of the reigning family, and a complete conquest of the 
principality, which has ever since formed a component part of the Nepaulese 
dominions* The principal town in the valley is named Chinachin, and there are 



704 NEPAUL. [taclagur. 

probably several others scattered over the great space which formerly composed 
the Jemlah rajaship, but owing to the extreme jealousy of the Gorkhas the con- 
dition of the interior of the country remains wholly unknown. — (F. Bu- 
• chanan, 8$c.) 

Chinachin. — This is a large scattered place, the houses of which have flat 
roofs, and are built of brick and stone. Lat. 29 6 13'N. long. 81° 15' E. 160 
miles N. by E. from Lucknow. There are here two temples dedicated to Siva, 
the one named Chandranath and the other Bhairavanath. Merchants from the 
south repair here to purchase horses, bringing up with them metals, spices, and 
cloth, and carry down cow-tails, salt, horses, a kind of woollen cloth, medicinal 
herbs, musk, &c. In the markets of Chinachin, according to native accounts, 
many sheep and goats are exposed for sale bearing loads of salt, musk, medicinal 
herbs, and a seed named banyal bhera. Near to Chinachin there are spme of 
the cattle whose tails form the chowries,.and they are very numerous in the hilly 
parts. Of these cattle there are said to be three species, the chowry, the loolop, 
and the jhogo, whose tails are all bushy from the root, but those of the first- 
mentioned sort are the most valuable. — (F. Buchanan, tyc.) 

Rannutsh. — A town in the Gorkha territories, 17 miles E. from Jemlah. 
Lat. 29° 13' N. long. 81° 33' E. 

Raurah.— A town in the Gorkha territories, 14 miles N. by E. from Jemlah. 
Lat. 29° 23' N. long. 81° 23' E. 

Angstoo. — A town in the Nepaulese dominions, respecting which nothing is 
known for certain except the name; but it is conjectured to be situated about. 
40 miles N. from Jemlah. Lat. 29° 47' N. long. 81° 25' E. 

Cowishar. — A town in . Northern Hindostan, situated on the east side of the 
Goggra river, here named the Karanali, 75 miles N. from Jemlah. Lat. 30° 16' N. 
long. 81° 5' E. 

Taciiagur (Taklakhar). — Jemlah to the nonh is bounded by aridge of snowy 
mountains, there named Humla, by which it is separated from the country of 
the Taclakhar Bhooteas, now subject to China. The town of Taclagur, or 
Taclakote, is situated on the west side of the Goggra river (here named the 
Karanali), in lat. 30 s 24' N. long. 81° 5' E. 25 miles south from Lake Manasaro- 
vara. This is a dependency on Gurdon, a Chinese station, and although now 
incorporated with that empire may still be considered as belonging toHindostan, 
being decidedly to the south of the highest ridge of Himalaya. Taclakote is a 
permanent mart for salt and borax, and a fair is also held here during the months 
of October and November, when the vicinity exhibits a great display of tents; 
The principal articles brought from Tartary are wool, woollen cloths, and gold, 
to which tea may be added. The grain raised in this vicinity, named awajou, it 



NEPAXJL. 


DUTI.] 


706 


carried north to the neighbourhood of Lake Rawan Hrad, where it is given to the 
horses daring the rigorous season ; and as it thrives in a severe climate, it might 
perhaps be with advantage naturalized in the northern parts of Great Britain. 
At one day’s journey north of Taclakote, the soil is cultivated by a very scanty 
population, yet the produce is not sufficient for the consumption. Beyond this 
limit tribes of migratory horsemen, named dokpa, are found, who are dwellers 
in tents . — ( Webb , Moorcroft> F. Buchanan , 8$c.) 

Gordon (or Garewdun ). — This is a regular Chinese station, and is so far ad- 
vanced among the mountains, that it may be considered as standing on debate- 
able land, being on the verge of Tibet and Hindostan. Lat. 30° 32' N* 
long. 81° 7' E. 17 miles from Lake Manasarovara. 

, Gurdon is a permanent mart for purchase and sale ; but in the month of No- 
vember there is an annual fair, which is resorted to by merchants from Lahdack 
and Cashmere, when business to a considerable amount is transacted. The 
principal articles brought from China are wool, woollen cloths, gold dust, and 
tea. On these occasions the circulating medium is a coin named timashi, struck 
at Lahdack from ingots of silver brought all the way from China, and gold dust 
in many cases supplies the place of coin, the monetary system being here de- 
fective. It has been computed that from 15 to 20,000 fleeces are annually 
brought to the markets of Gurdon and Taclagur, but the goat’s hair used in the 
manufacture of shawls is not to be met with at either market, the sale of this 
article being almost monopolized by Lahdack. It is said that three fleeces fetch 
only one rupee. The gold dust is delivered in small parcels tied separately in a 
rag, one of which is called a titang, and contains about 80 grains apothecaries’ 
weight, worth about 14s. sterling. It is probable that pearls, coral, the shells 
named shunks, and broad cloth, to the aggregate amount of 10,000 rupees, 
might be here annually disposed of ( Webb , &;c.) 

Dcti.— T he territories of the Duti Raja formerly extended from the Goggra 
rivet on the east to the Cali or Black River, which separates it from Kumaon 
on the west, and through its centre passes the Setigunga or White River. Along 
the banks of this last is a fine valley, four miles long by two broad, on which 
stands Depal (or Duti), the capital, enclosed on three sides by the river. 
Lat. 29° $ N. long. 80° 3T E. 85 miles N. E. from Bareily. It contains about 
400 houses built of stone, and roofed with the same material. The principal 
crop is winter rice, the second urid, the third kurthi, and the fourth barley } all 
this others being of small amount. The oil seed chiefly raised is the sesamum. 
Accor ding to native accounts, of the whole population one-fourth are pure 
Brahmins, and another fourth bastard Brahmins, Khasiyas compose three- 
von. it* d x 



706 NEPAUL. [kuckwanmor, 

sixteenths, and low labourers and tradesmen the remaining fire-sixteenths.— 

( F. Buchanait, Webb, fyc.) 

• Muckwanpoor (Maiwanpura .) — This is one of the most important districts 
possessed by the Nepaul Raja, and was formerly much mors extensive, hut 
several divisions to the east, such as Saptari, having been separated from it, the 
following description must be considered as referring to the tract immediately ' 
south of the Nepaul valley and San Cosi river. One half of Muckwanpoor is 
on the level country called the Terriani, and in its physical aspect and other cir- 
cumstances exactly resembles the low country of Morung, Saptari, and! Maha- 
tari, the whole belt being about 20 miles in breadth. .In this space there are a 
few scattered small hills, and much poor land overgrown with trees and bushes 
of little value ; but there is also a large proportion of rich land, and on the ^vhole 
the soil is much better than that of the British territories immediately adjacent. 
Its productions are nearly the same as those of the northern parts of the 
Pumeah district, except that being less cultivated there are more wild beasts; 
especially elephants and rhinoceroses. The breed-of the former is uncommonly 
bad, and it has been remarked that each of them has a toe on some one of its 
feet very much lengthened, which gives the foot an unseemly appearance. 
Before the conquest of this tract by the Gorkhas, the native petty Rajas, being 
much afraid of their neighbours, did not encourage the clearing of the low land, 
but on the contrary rather fostered the jungles, and contented themselves in a 
great measure with the natural productions of the forests, the timber, elephants, 
and pasture. Even then, however, many rich spots were occupied and rendered 
productive, but they were so concealed in the depths of the forest as to come 
little under inspection. The Gorkhas being more confident in their own strength 
have cleared much of the country, and are able to export considerable quantities 
of grain, but much remains still to be done. The tobacco produced i| said to , 
be of an excellent flavour, and the rearing of the reddish cotton wool on the in-, 
crease. The climate is inferior in point of salubrity to the contiguous portions 
of the British provinces, but this seems entirely owing to its being less denied 

• and cultivated. 

Bounding the plain above-mentioned on the north is a region of nearly equal 
width, extending from the Gunduck to the Conki, but only a portion of it on 
be considered as appertaining to Muckwanpoor.’ This consists of snail hills 
rising in gradations towards the north, and watered by small riveqt issuing from 
the southern face of the lofty mountains to which these hills gradually mite. 
In many places they are rocky, and abound with encrustations formed by the 
deposition of calcareous matter, but it » said there are not any exuviae of marine 



NEPATTL. 


SIOCKWAJIVOOB.] 


707 


animals* The calcareous matter has formed itself into crusts covering the sur* 
fee© of the rocks, or has assumed the form of lichens and similar plants that it 
has covered* The hills on both sides abound with pines, and this part is the 
most convenient from whence to procure them. The most remarkable places ot 
strength are the fort of Muckwanpoor, where the Rajas formerly dwelt; Harrior- 
poor, commanding the Bogmutty ; Seedly and Cheesapany, commanding two 
passes through the Lama Dangra mountains; Chaynpoor on the San Cosi; and 
Kumbi, Parsa, Kuraras, and Baragurry, commanding the plain; but in the whole 
district there is not one considerable town or mine of consequence. At Hethaura, 
Seedly, and Beechiaco, customs are collected, but they are not marts for goods, 
which are principally exchanged at the markets on the plains. The subah usu- 
ally resides at Muckwanpoor, but in the cold season he visits the plain and 
resides at Baragurry, for which reason he is often termed the Baragurry subah. 
Before the late war, it is said, he paid the Nepaul Raja an annual revenue of 
100,000 rupees, which appears a large sum when it is considered that a great 
proportion of the hills had been bestowed in jaghire and military fiefs, and 
that the plain alone was rented on account of government. 

The population on the plains consists principally of the Tharu and Daniwar 
castes, the chief tribe on the hills being the Murmi. About the forts are some 
Rajpoots, many of the spurious breed named Khas, a great number of Magars, 
and but few Kirauts. The inhabitants of the Terriani, or low country, entirely 
resemble in their circumstances, language, dress, persons, and customs, the 
Hindoos of the northern portions of Bahar. The peasantry are extremely nasty, 
and apparently indigent. Their huts are small, dirty, and very ill calculated to 
keep out the cold winds of the winter season, for a great many of them have no 
other walls than a few reeds supported by sticks in a perpendicular direction. 
Their clothing consists of some cotton rags, neither bleached, dyed, nor appa- 
rently washed. They are a small hard-favoured people, and by no means fairer 
than the inhabitants of Bengal, who are comparatively in better circumstances, 
yet these miserable tribes have plenty of spare land, and pay few taxes. 

According to native traditions, a Khetri dynasty was established at Garsamaran 
(the ruins of which are still visible), in A. D. 1089, which terminated about 1315, 
in consequence of the conquests of the Mahommedan kings of Delhi. A new 
dynasty of Rajpoots succeeded in the country now called Muckwanpoor, one 
of whom* Tula Sen, built the fortress of that name, which has since designated 
the principality* The most rematkable Raja, named Lohanga, subdued or ex- 
pelled a great many of the adjacent petty chiefs, and rendered himself para- 
mmt over © large portion of the country forming the modem Nepaulese 



708 NEPAUL. [muckwakpoor. 

dominions ; but after his death, his kingdom being greatly weakened by internal 
dissensions and treachery, it was reduced to very confined limits, although, the 
•Mahommedans for many years subsequent to the conquest of Bengal did not 
, take possession of the tract at present forming the northern portions of the 
districts of Sarun, Tirhoot, and Puroeah. This occurred about the middle of the 
18th century, and in 1762 Goorgheen Khan, Meer Oossim’s Armenian general, 
made an attempt to complete the conquest of the whole by an attempt on the 
fortress of Muckwanpoor, but did not succeed. After the failure of the expedi- 
tion against Nepaul, under Captain Kinloch in 1765, that officer was employed 
to reduce the Terriani of Muckwanpoor, for the purpose of reimbursing the 
expenses of the war ; but after retaining the Terriani, and making the collections 
for two years, it was given up to the Gorkha Raja, who had then established his 
authority over Muckwanpoor by the expulsion of the Raja ' 

After the termination of the Nepaulese war in 1815, the British government 
(in pursuance of the general system of restoring the exiled hill chiefs to such 
territories conquered from the Gurkhas, as it might not be necessary or expedient 
to retain) determined to effect the restoration of the ancient ruling family in the 
person of Raja Oodee Pertaub Singh, its legitimate representative. This young 
man and his brother, with some faithful retainers, had resided for several years 
within the British district of Bettiah, where they subsisted on the produce of a 
village granted them by Raja Beer Kisbwur Singh. In process of time, by the 
extinction of the other branches of the family, among whom the Muckwanpoor 
principality had been subdivided, Raja Oodee Pertaub had become heir to the 
whole inheritance, which originally comprehended the lower ranges of hills from 
the Gunduck, eastward, to the Teesta, including the Terriani or low land of 
Muckwanpoor, and part of that of Morung. When war with the Goikha dynasty 
commenced. Raja Oodee Pertaub was encouraged to raise a corps of Kirauts, 
and to exert himself in any way calculated to promote the attainment of the 
common object; but owing to the long period of time that had elapsed since 
his predecessors were deprived of the sovereignty no beneficial consequence of 
any importance resulted. The restoration therefore of this chief to any portion 
of his territory was not obligatory, but as the failure of his exertions was more 
owing to events which he could not controul, than to any deficiency of zeal, the 
British government was disposed to admit his claim to consideration, and to 
grant him a tract of the low country sufficient to maintain him in decency and 
comfort, and in a political point of view it appeared desirable to establish a 
friendly and independent power between the British territories and JNepaoi.' 
The arrangements relating to this establishment had not been completed in 1816, 



BEECH AID.} NEPAUL. 709 

and there is reason to believe, that owing to the pertinacity of the Nepaulese 
negociators they still remain unsettled. — (F* Buchanan , Public MS '. Documents , 
Kirkpatrick , fyc. S$c.) 

Muckwanpoor. — T he fortress of Muckwanpoor is situated on a high hilf r 
about 17 miles south from Catmandoo. Lat. 27° 27' N. long. 85° 1' E. This 
hili fort is distinguishable with the naked eye from the banks of the Kurrah, and 
is a place of considerable strength, to which great importance is attached by the 
Nepaulese, as its possession commands a large portion of the Terriani. In 1792, 
when the Nepaulese were hard pressed by the Chinese army from Tibet, the 
regent and some of the principal chiefs deposited a great part of their most 
valuable property in this strong hold.— f Kirkpatrick, 8$c.) 

Lama Dangra Mountains. — This range of mountains extends from the 
Trisool Gangga to the Arun, and except by the Bogmutty, is crossed by no river, 
all those from the north side falling into the Trisool Gangga, the Bogmutty or the 
Cosi. — (F. Buchanan , &;c \) 

Upadrang.— A town in the Gorkha territories, 3.8 miles W. by S. from Cat- 
mandoo. Lat. 27° 37' N. long. 84° 23' E. 

Seekurkh utree. — A small village principally inhabited by Brahmins, situ- 
ated about 1500 yards from the foot of a hill, four miles W. from the fortress of 
Muckwanpoor. Lat. 27° 27' N. long. 84° 57' E. On the 28th February, 1816, 
a sharp action was fought here between a detachment of British troops, com- 
manded by Lieut. Tirrell, and a party of Gorkhas commanded by Kessuree 
Singh, in which the latter were defeated after an obstinate resistance ; but with- 
the loss of both commanders. 

Gourpesara (Garpasara). — This is a little village with a large tank, situated 
about ten miles from the British boundary near the Bera river, and 38 miles 
south from Catmandoo. Lat. 27° 10' N. long. 84° 50' E. The intervening 
country from the Bera is an open plain, little of which is cultivated, although 
it is advantageously situated for irrigation, and the rivers here are full even to- 
the end of March. The water is dirty, and, owing to the quantity of vegetable 
matter collected from the forests and rank vegetation, is reckoned very unwhole* 
some.— ( F* Buchanan , , 8$c.) 

Jhurjhoorv (Jharajhari, the bamboo grove).— A wretched village in the Muck- 
wanpoor district, consisting of a few herdsmen’s huts scattered on the banks of 
the Bukkia river, Lat. 27° 13' N. long. 85° 4' E. To the south of this place 
lies the great Jhuijhoory forest, which abounds with elephants of a. bad quality, 
and contains much valuable timber, especially of the saul species.— ( Kirk- 
patrick, SfcJ 

Beichiaco (Bichhacor ). — This is a miserable village, with a substantial 



710 NEPAUL. [sheempheiv 

dhurrumsala for the accommodation of travellers, situated on an elevated bank" 
above the bed of the Beechiaco torrent. Lat. 27° 19' N. long. 84° 55' E. 2 7 miles 
south from Catmandoo. Beechiaco contains about a dozen huts, but affords no 
♦supplies except wood and water, of which last there is a very fine s spring and 
several small streams in a wide stony channel ; yet there is no cultivation in the 
vicinity, the only inhabitants being a few Parbutties or mountain Hindoos, who 
reside at the place to collect duties and accommodate travellers. From long 
habit, they have become inured to the climate, and capable of resisting its bale- 
ful influence, which, from the end of March to the beginning of December, is 
singularly destructive to strangers. The name Bichhakor, signifies a place 
abounding with scorpions. During the last campaign* against the NepauJese it 
was taken by the army under Sir David Ochterlony, who established a fi6p6t, 
which he fortified with a stockade. — ( F. Buchanan , 8$c. S$c.) \ 

Cheriaghaut (or bird passage ). — This is a strong pass, about seven miles 
from Beechiaco, but commanded by two hills. The road from hence toHethaura 
is very good for loaded cattle, and might be easily rendered fit for carts. 

. Hethaura. — This place stands on a fine plain about a mile wide, and is 
bounded on the north by the Rapty (Raputi), which is here a beautiful, clear, 
and rapid stream. Lat. 27° 26' N. long. 84° 54' E. 18 miles S. by W. from Cat- 
mandoo. The soil of the plain is good, but not cultivated, being mostly covered 
with stately forests of saul trees, which are kept clear of underwood by burning 
the fallen leaves and withered grass in the dry season. The Rapty having come 
from the north, here turns to the west, and after being joined by the Kanara some 
way below, flows on until it joins the Gunduck, through a valley, the lower part 
of which is cultivated, while all near Hethaura is waste. This proceeds from 
the jealousy of the Nepaul government, which does not wish to have the forests 
cleared. The heat of Hethaura is more temperate than that of the Terriani, but 
as the warm season advances its insalubrity increases. Although Hethaura, on 
account of its. being the chief mart for the commerce carried on between the 
Nepaul dominions and those of the British nation, is a place of much occasional 
resort, yet it still remains a miserable and unhealthy village. For the accom- 
modation of merchants there is a brick building surrounding a square court, and 
there are also a few shops. From hence to Bheemphed, a travelling distance of 
18 miles, the road leads through a narrow defile between high and steep hills, 
overgrown with thick woods, through which the Rapty winds in so extraordinary 
a manner that it is crossed by the way 22 times. — (F. Buchanan, %c*) 
Bheemphed. — A small village situated on the Rapty, from whence the road 
leads up the Cheesapony mountain. Lat. 27° 33' N. long. 84° 60' E. miles. 
8. W. from Catmandoo. At Bheemphed the valley of the Rapty ceases, and 



BAEHAGURHV.] NEPAUL*. 711 

the high mountains of Lama Dangra separate it from the. country on the north 
watered by die branches of the Bogmutty. At this place there is a well- fre- 
quented dhurrumsala (or caravanserai), where numerous passengers and hill 
porters are always to be seen during the travelling season. — (F. Buchanan, 

Cheesapaky (or Cheesaghurry ). — A fortress in the Nepaulese territories con- 
sidered of great importance by the Gorkhas as the southern key of the Nepaulese 
valley. Lat. 27° 33' N. long. 84° 50' E. 14 miles S. S. W. from Catmandoo. 
Hie ordinary road from Bheemphed to Catmandoo passes through the fort of 
Cheesapany, and winds iq a zigzag manner up the south side of the hiU, which 
has a very steep acclivity, but still accessible to men, cattle, or elephants. The 
fort has no ditch but it is surrounded by a stone octagonal wall 10} feet thick, 
of various heights from to 12 yards, and rather less than a mile in circum- 
ference. Some years ago this fort was small, and out of repair, but since the 
commencement of the disputes with the British government, it has been strength- 
ened and enlarged by the Gorkhas ; but it is ill situated, as an assailant might go 
round, and get so high above it as completely to command it. The usual garrison 
Consists of 60 men; but it is said to be now capable of containing 2000 men, and 
is looked on by the Gorkhas as a sort of forlorn hope, there being a practicable 
road the whole way to Catmandoo, unobstructed by any fortifications. The 
name is derived from a spring of cold water, which, according to barometrieal 
observations is situated 5818 feet above the plains of Bengal. At this place 
there is a regular custom house established, where the customs and duties on the 
articles of traffic from the British and Viziers’ territories are levied . — ( Abdul Bus- 
tool, Kirkpatrick, Colebrooke, fyc.) 

Tambehkhaneh. — A village in the Nepaulese territories, named from the 
copper mines which were once worked in its vicinity. Lat. 27° 35' N. long.. 84° 
48' E. 12 miles S. S. W. from Catmandoo. 

Habriorpoor (Hariharpur ). — A Gorkha fortress in the district of Muck- 
wanpoor commanding the Bogmutty river. . Lat. 27 s 15' N. long. 85° 28' E. 42 
miles S. E. from Catmandoo. 

.Seedly ( Sinduli ). — A Gorkha fortress in the Muckwanpoor district to the 
possession of which that people attach considerable importance, as commanding 
the Terriani or low country. Lat. 27° 9' N. long. 85° 56' E. 68 miles S % E. from 
Catmandoo. 

Barragurry.— A town in the Muckwanpoor district, 45 miles S. S. E. from 
Catmandoo. Lat. 27° 5' N. long. 85° 10' E. The situation of tins place is very 
unhealthy, in consequence of which Captain Kinlock’s detachment which n- 
mained here for some time after the unfortunate attempt topeaetrate into Nepaui 



71 9 NEPAUL. [KIRA0T8, 

in 1769, suffered greatly from the pestilential effect of the climate. In 1792, 
when General Kirkpatrick went to Catmaqdoo, it was the residence of the 
Gorkha governor of the western Terraui. — ( Kirkpatrick , &;c. fyc.) ' 

Kieauts ( Kiratas ). — East from the territory of Nepaul Proper, the mountains 
are chiefly occupied by a tribe named Kiraut or Kichak, who at a period of 
remote antiquity appear to have made conquests in the plains of Camroop 
and Matsya, which now compose the Bengal districts of Rungpoor and Dinage- 
poor. These Kirauts are also frequently mentioned in Hindoo legend as occu- 
pying the country between Nepaul and Madra, the ancient denomination in 
Brahminical writings of the country we call Bootan ; and it is related in the 
Puranas, that the goddess Parvati, after a quarrel with her husband S\va, ap- 
peared before him in the character of a Kirata, or daughter of a mountaineer. 
They seem always to have been a rude and warlike people, although rather less 
illiterate than some of the neighbouring tribes. The Buddhist Lamas had made 
some progress in their conversion, but many still adhered to their old priesthood, 
customs, and ceremonies. The Rajpoots from the south on obtaining power 
induced many to>forsake the impurity of their ways, and employ Brahmins ; but 
in general their compliance only lasted while they remained at the court qf the 
Rajpoot chief. Their abstinence from the flesh of oxen, now strictly enforced 
by the Gorkhas, is exceedingly disagreeable, and although the Lamas have been 
banished, the Kirauts still retain a great respect for the^ memory, and a strong 
inclination to resume their former diet. 

The Kirauts being, as above related, vigorous beefeaters, did not easily submit 
to the Rajpoot yoke, although prior to the Hindoo migration from the smith they 
had been compelled to seek refuge among the hills, yet until the overwhelming 
power acquired by the present Gorkha dynasty, they maintained some degree of 
independence. In the year 1769, when Nepaul was subdued by Prithi Narrain 
of Gorkha, the Kirauts were feudatories to the Rajpoot princes of that valley, 
and possessed considerable influence, their hereditarf chief being Chautariya, 
which is the second office in the state. They are said to have once had a written 
character of their own, but those who can now write, for the most part use the 
Nagari character. By their customs they are allowed to many ‘ several wiyc&r 
and also to keep concubines. Their property is equally divided among the sons 
of all their wives, but the sons of the concubines are also allowed a share, 
though smaller than that of the legitimate male progeny. 

At the epocha of the Hindoo invasion or migration into these hills, there were 
settled among the Kirauts a tribe named Limboo, $e manners of which are 
very nearly* the same^and the two intermarry. Since the overthrow of the 
Kirauts, the Gorkhas, m ^measure of policy, shew a decided preference to the 



KHATAKG.] NEPAUL. 719 

Limboos , who, never having possessed power, were not depressed by its loss, nor 
by the banishment of their priests. They are not, however, entirely reconciled 
to the privation of beef, yet on the whole are less discontented than the horde 
with which they are intermingled. They reside in huts, and their pursuits are 
mostly agricultural. All the chiefs of the Kirauts call themselves Ray, ns 
claiming a Rajpoot descent; but they are distinctly marked by their features as 
being of Tartarian origin. At present individuals of this tribe (under the deno- 
mination of Kichacks) are thinly scattered over the northern parts of the pro- 
vinces subordinate to the Bengal presidency, where they follow the vocations 
ot gypsies, and gain a subsistence by snaring game, telling fortunes, and stealing. 
The native tract of country to the east of the Nepaul valley, although inter- 
sected by many mountain streams countributory to the San Cosi, continues but 
thinly inhabited, and only cultivated in detached spots. — ( F. Buchanan , Kirk- 
patrick, fyc.) 

Khansa. — A town in the Nepaulese dominions, 50^ miles E. by N. from Cat- 
mandoo. Lat. 27° 50' N. long. 85° 46' E. 

Khatang. — A district north of the Lama Dangra mountains, subject to the 
Gorkhas, under the jurisdiction of a Subah appointed from Catmandoo, who 
rules an extensive and mountainous region, bounded by the Arun on the east, 
and on the west by Tamba Cosi, which separates it from the territory of Bh&t- 
gong, one of the three principalities into which Nepaul Proper was formerly 
subdivided. Towards the south it descends to the Kamal, which in part sepa- 
rates it from Muckwanpoor, and it comprehends a portion of the country inha- 
bited by the Kiraut tribes. In proportion to the latitude, and the ascent of the 
hills, the climate, surface, and vegetable productions, will be found described 
under the general head of Nepaul. The principal forts or stations are Hidang, 
where the Subah resides ; Chaudandi, where the Rajas formerly lived; Rawah, 
a large town with a fort near the junction of the San Cosi and Doodh Cosi 
rivers ; Chariyaghurry on the Kamal ; and Hatuya at the junction of the San, 
Cosi and Arun rivers. At the temple of Kalesi, where the two Cosis unite, there 
is in February a very great fair. 

With Tibet there are said to be two routes of communication. On the Doodh 
Cosi is Lamja, to which the Tibetians come at all seasons, and the place itself is 
inhab ited by individuals of that nation. The other route to Tibet from Khatang 
is towards Dudh Kunda, a place in tfibet where there is a great annual fair. The 
commerce by the Tamba Cosi goes by Phala, a gola or custom-house in the 
former territory of Bhatgong. According to native information, the roads from 
the San Cosi to the mountains are difficult, but for part of the way practicable on 
homes ; from Chattra to Nepajil the road is rather better, but in many placet 
the rider must dismount* After passing the falls of the Cosi at Chattra, tbs San 

y A mm * 



NEPAUL. 


714 


[CHAlrttNPOOfi' 


Cosi is navigable in canoes to the junction of the Risu, where it turns to the 
north. The Arun is said to be navigable to Hidang, which appears improbably 
\yhen the mountainous country it penetrates is considered. 

According to the same authorities, the chief place in Khatang is Dalka on the 
Tamba Cosi, situated in a plain extending to Puchighaut on both sides of the 
Tamba Cosi, and about a mile in width. Dalka is described as a town re* 
sembling Timmi in the Nepaul valley, which may contain about 4,000 people, 
is built of brick, and chiefly inhabited by Newars. The land revenue of Khatang 
has been almost entirely granted to the different officers of the Nepaul govern- 
ment, and there are no internal duties or customs, so that the Raja’s chief sburce 
of revenue is the arbitrary income tax named rajanka, mulcts, and the profits of 
mines ; the aggregate, in 1809, amounting to little mote than 16,000 rupees. — 
( F. Buchanan, §c.) 

Chayenpoor. — A short time prior to 1809, this tract of country was formed 
into a district by the Gorkhas, under the jurisdiction of a Subah, who resides at 
Chayenpoor. The hilly parts of the Sikkim principality as far as they had been 
subdued, and a portion of Tibet bordering on the Arun river, were annexed to 
the Chayenpoor subahship, which is bounded by the Sinklaya, Arun, and Kau- 
siki on the west, and to the east was formerly bounded by the Teesta ; but since 
the conclusion of the Nepaulese war, all the conquests made by that people 
from the Sikkim Raja east of the Mutchee river and a line drawn from thence to 
the hills, having been restored to him, this district may be considered as ter- 
minating at the boundaries last specified. It consists altogether of lofty moun- 
tains rising in many parts to the most tremendous alps, and its productions in 
every respect resemble those described under the article of Nepaul, similarly 
situated with regard to latitude and physical circumstances. 

The land revenue raised is said to be small, and almost wholly appropriated by 
military tenures. The principal sources of profit to the government are theeus- 
toms at the marts, the produce of the mines, and a capitation tax. The forte or 
stations are Chayenpoor, the capital, Changgiya, and Hidang, a large place 
towards the frontiers of Tibet. Chayenpoor has a considerable tirade by that 
part of the country which is near the Arun, and Alanchung on the Tamar is also 
a mart of established commerce. Formerly it was carried on at Pakang, in the 
middle between the two rivers, but the trade to this place is only practicable 
during the summer months, whereas it can pass to the two marts first mentioned 
all the year. The goods imported at these places from Tibet are salt (carried* on 
sheep), gold, silver, musk and musk-deer skins, cowtails or chowries, blankets, 
borax, Chinese silks, and medicinal herbs. The goods sent north from Chayen- 
poor are rice, wheat, maruya, uya (a grain), oil, butter, iron, copper, cotton 
cloth, broad cloth, catechu, myrobalans, planks of the dhupi/ pepper, indigo, 



•awam.J NEPAUL. 715 

tobacco, hides, otter fur, sugar candy, extract of sugar cane, and occasionally 
some pearls. 

With respect to the inhabitants, in the western portion of Chayenpoor, the 
most numerous tribe is the Kirauts, next to these the Limboos, then the Magar, 
lately introduced by the Gorkhas as soldiers, then the Khas tribe, and lastly the 
Rajpoots. Within its limits there also some Murmis, and towards the north- 
west some Bhooteas. — (F. Buchanan, 8$c.) 

Chayenpoor.— The town or fortress of Chayenpoor is situated in lat. 27* 18' N. 
long. 87° E. 110 miles north from Pumeah, and five miles from the Arun river. 

Tamlingtar.— This place stands between the Arun and the Soreya, which 
are here about three miles distant from each other. Lat. 27° 18' N. long. 86* 
52' E. 110 miles N. N. W. from Pumeah. It is die largest place in the Chayenpoor 
district, and according to native accounts contains about 6000 inhabitants. The 
plain in which it is situated is about 20 miles firom north to south, and six from 
east to west, bounded on the west by the Arun. but not fully cleared of jungle. 
(F. Buchanan, S$c.) 

Jaresano. — This place is situated on the east side of the Arun, in a plain 
well cultivated country, about 98 miles N. N. W. from the town of Pumeah. 
Lat. 27° 7' N. long. 86° 56' E. 

Fakang. — A mart in Northern Hindostan on the frontiers of Tibet and 
the Gorkha province of Chayenpoor. Lat. 27° 56' N. long. 86° 58' E. According 
tn native accounts, the country here is not very hilly, but its elevation is so 
great and the cold during winter is so intense, that it remains uninhabited except 
during the hottest of the summer months, when it is resorted to by shepherds 
and traders. 

Saptari. — The middle portion of the Muckwanpoor principality as it existed 
under Raja Lohanga, was after its conquest divided by the Nepaulese into two 
districts, and placed under two distinct functionaries. The first of these com- 
prehends the tract of country called Saptari, which is mostly situated in the 
low country, bounded on the east by the Cosi river, and limited on the west by 
the Rati. Very little of the hilly country belongs to it, as the divisions of Khatang 
and Muckwanpoor come low down, and meet at Kamal. Its geographical 
features entirely resemble those of the Terriani or low country, and its vegetable 
productions are in every respect the same. The most remarkable places within 
llam a of Saptari are Naragari, a small fort on the plain where the Subah resides ; 
Bhimagari, another similar place, where he occasionally resides, -and Janakpoor 
a place 0 f pilgrimage celebrated in Hindoo fable. No vestiges remain of former 
magnificence, if they ever existed. 

!n 1608, the total revenue collected by the Subah, or superintendent, was a* 
ftttcHras-*- 


4 y 2 



NEPAUL. 


716 


[MORUNG. 


Rupees. 

Land rent, fines on marriages, concubines, and adulterers . . . 69,957 
Pasture 5386 ; catechu 2227 ; timber cutters 4687 rupees . . . 12,280 
Duties on boats loaded with timber 2786 ; ditto on birds 698 rupees .3,484 


Customs at marts 29,833 

Duties on markets or variable imposts 12,985 


Total 127,559 

Exclusive of the rajanka, dr arbitrary income tax, the subah then paid the 
Nepaul Raja 58,000 rupees per annum. In Saptari there is very little granted 
for the support of the army or government officers, and there are not any^great 
military establishments. At Jaleswar in Mahatari, south from Janakpoot, the 
Raja formerly had a manufacture of saltpetre and gunpowder, and at Sisuyp on 
the Cosi there is one irpn mine. 

The Tharoo caste, resembling in its manners the Gangayi of Morung, com- 
poses the greatest portion of the population that are dwellers on the plain. 
Next to these are about equal parts of impure Bohars, and of the military and 
agricultural tribe of Brahmins called Aniwar, both of which have at different 
times been sovereigns of the country. Immediately under the hills are many 
Batars, who speak the Hindi language. The lower hills are occupied by Sring- 
guyas, a ramification of the Limboo tribe, and also by M agars, Rajpoots, and 
Khas, the first of recent introduction. — (F. Buchanan, 8$c.) 

Morung ( Mayuranca , remarkable for peacocks ). — Prior to 1809, the eastern 
division of the Muckwanpoor principality, founded by Raja Lohanga, together 
with a part of Sikkim, and a portion of Tibet which had been gained by the 
Gorkhas, were by them, for the convenience of government, subdivided into two 
districts, viz. Morung comprehending the southern, and Chayenpoor the northern 
portion of the territory. As a general description, the Morung may be con* 
sidered as extending in the low country from the Cosi to the Teesta, although 
the level tract between the Mutchee and Teesta that formerly belonged to Sikkim, 
has, since the conclusion of the war in 1816, been restored to that princi- 
pality. On the low hills Morung extends from the Conki to the Cosi, and it 
includes little or none of the mountains, and of the lofty Himalaya nothing 
at all. 

Before 1816 , the southernmost point at which Morung touched the Rungpoor 
district was Sanyasicata, from which spot, for a distance of five miles, the river 
Mahananda formed the line of boundary between the two countries, after which 
the Nepaulese territories crossed that river, and intermixed at Debgong in the 
most irregular manner. The line of demarkation, which even in an Open country 
is merely preserved by the memory of the inhabitants, soon becomes quite 



morung.] NEPAUL. 717 

evanescent in a thick saul jungle, from which point the common boundary was 
keenly contested throughout the course of the river Teesta. Suroop Deo, the 
zemindar of Bykantpoor, laid claim to the whole extent of this wilderness, 
while the Gorkha local authorities, with equal pertinacity, asserted a right to 
the entire forest down to its southern extremity. To settle disputed pretensions 
of this description by native testimony, has been always found quite imprac- 
ticable, as either side can lead forth a cloud of witnesses, ready to swear to 
any fact whatever. Particular circumstances, however, tended to substantiate 
the zemindar's claim; his family having long resided in the centre of the tract 
claimed by the Gorkhas ; but after all, it is to be presumed, that a wild space, 
situated on the frontiers pf either territory, has frequently changed its master, 
and during periods of hostility been* always occupied by the most powerful. 
The Gorkhas, by the peace of 1816, having been compelled to, relinquish all the 
territory to the east of the river Mutchee, no longer come in contact with the 
disputed tract, and the Sikkim Raja, owing his restoration entirely to the efforts 
of the British government, offered no opposition to the amicable adjustment of 
the boundaries which has since taken place. 

In its physical and geographical circumstances Morung entirely resembles the 
lower belt of Nepaul, of which a general description has already been given. 
The Terriani or low country assists to support immense lands of cattle bred in 
the Pumeah district, which must otherwise perish there during the heats of the 
dry season, when almost every vegetable production (including the bamboo) is 
withered and parched up, and the atmosphere glows with intense heat.. Even 
then the woods here at the base of the mountains retain some degree of moisture, 
and the rains of the spring are commonly early and copious, hastening a strong 
and succulent vegetation. A great deal of timber is also exported from hence 
to Calcutta, the Morung. producing many trees valuable for their scent and the 
polish they are capable of taking, as well as for strength and durability, but the 
saul, or shorea robusta, is almost the only one much in request. The cutting 
season lasts from the middle of December to the middle of April, when the 
forests become dreadfully unhealthy. By the exertions of the labourers, larger 
timbers are brought down the Cosi than the Teesta, the people of Nepaul being 
much more active than the inhabitants of the adjacent British territories. After 
being cut, the timbers are assorted into five kinds, and sold by girth. Europeans, 
who purchase floats of timber in the Morung for the Calcutta market,, are 
greatly imposed upon unless they personally accompany the rafts. During their 
progress south, many boats are lost, andpart only of the timber is recovered, 
*hile the original logs, as they pass the various towns on the route, gradually 
diminish ist size, so that even when the number dispatched is delivered complete. 



NEPAUL. 


718 NEPAUL. [Moaoire, 

their dimensions, owing to fraudulent exchanges on the road, differs very much 
from their measurement at the place of embarkation. 

The most remarkable places in this district are Vijayapoor; Samrigari, a small 
fort; Chaudanda, in remote times a seat of government, but now deserted; Sora- 
baugh, and Chattra. The market places are 24 in number, and the custom- 
houses are frequently transferred from one place to another. In 1809, the 
Morung was separated into three revenue divisions, each in charge of a deputy 
collector. The total revenue yielded was as follow, viz. — 

Total land rent 54,025 rupees. 

Ditto sayer (or variable imposts) . . 7,500 

Rent for pasture # . 24,000 

Duty on timber 38,000 

Ditto on catechu 3,000 

Ditto on birds 500 

Customs at the marts 4,400 


Total 131,425 

The duties called sayer include a capitation on artists, a duty on the sale of 
oxen and buffaloes, on marriages, on contracts with concubines, on grain ex* 
ported, on all things sold in bazars, and on adulterers. The subah in his capacity 
of judge always receives 25 per cent, on sums recovered in his court, and also 
receives presents from the defendant, when the cause is given in his favour, but 
the greater proportion of the regular fees goes to the Raja. Out of the tofid 
amount collected as above stated, the soubah pays 80,000 to the government, 
besides presents and rajanka equal to 20,000 rupees, which amount he probably 
extorts from those under him. On the other hand he incurs a heavy expense 
by supplying the troops with provisions, which he must do at a price (always 
below the market) fixed by the government, but these he probably also squeezes 
from the tenantry. 

The inhabitants of Morung to the east of Vijaypoor are chiefly Cooeh, or 
Rajbungsies, who are considered the same tribe, live on the plain, and speak the 
dialect of Bengal; on the lower hills are many of the Mech tribe. In the wes- 
tern parts most of the cultivators are of the Gangayi caste, who speak the 
dialect of Mithila (Tirhoot), and adhere to the doctrines of purity as established 
in that country. On the hills the people are mostly Khas, or a mixed breed 
between the mountain Hindoos and natives, with some Rajpoots and Magara, 
which last have been recently introduced. No event of importance is recorded 
in the history of this state until the reign of a Raja named Vijaya Narrain, who 
is said to have come originally from Camroop, and having subdued this tract, lie 
assumed to himself the title of conqueror of the earth. He also built Vijayapoor, 



wicimi.] NEPAUL. 719 

thecApitttl; hut having put to death a mountain chief of Kiraut origin* under 
pretence that he (the mountain chief), being an impure beef-eating monster, had 
presumed to defile an Hindoo woman, the son of his antagonist expelled the 
fi^fa and established his own dynasty. According to tradition, the Sikkim Raja 
made many conquests in this quarter, but the whole was overrun by the Gorkhas 
in 1774* when Agom Singh, the reigning chief of the Kiraut family, fled for refuge 
into the British territories. By the treaty of peace concluded with the Ne- 
paulese on the 2d of December, 1815, and ratified on the 4th of March, 1816, 
that state was allowed to retain Morung, with the exception of the section 
situated to the east of thq Mutchee, a small river about 35 miles west of the 
Teesta. — (F. Buchanan , Sisson, §c. fyc.) 

Vijayapoor (or Bijeypoor ). — The modem capital of the Morung, situated in 
lat. 26° 56' N. long. 87° 12' E. 80 miles N. by W. from the town of Purneah. 
This town stands on the higher part of the low hills, and is so free from the un- 
healthy air of that region, named Owl, that it is said the people here can eat 75 
per cent, more than they can in the low lands, a mode of measuring the salubrity 
of different places not uncommon among the natives of India. The fortress is 
always garrisoned by Gorkha regulars, and is the residence of a commander, who 
superintends the neighbouring civil officers, and watches over the frontier. In 
the year- 1774, the Gorkhas attacked Vijayapoor and assassinated as many of 
the legitimate family as they could seduce within their power by treachery and 
breach of pledged faith. The last heir, aged only 5 years, was destroyed by 
having a loathsome disease communicated to him by a Brahmin, in place of the 
small pox inocculation . — ( F. Buchanan, 8$c.) 

Chattra ( Kshctra ). — A town and place of pilgrimage, situated 82 miles N. 
by W. from Purneah. Lat. 26° 53' N. long. 87° 4' E. Near to this place is the 
temple of Varaha Kshetra, dedicated to Vishnu in the form of a boar, the priest 
of which, before the Gorkha conquest, was a person of considerable influence; 
end the existing incumbent still enjoys the revenue of some land, and the whole 
of the duties collected at a neighbourhing custom-house. Chattra is frequented 
by many pilgrims, but the number is said to be on the decrease, and the build- 
ings, which were never considerable, are mouldering to ruin. Holy persons of 
the Hindoo faith sometimes bury themselves alive at this place, and on such 
occasions are supposed by the byestanders to be endowed with the gift of pro- 
phecy* On the banks of the Cosi, not far from the temple, a singular kind of 
Mack earth is found, of which, according to reports, the elephant is greedy 
when indisposed, but the natives use it, when rubbed with a little water, to 
supply the (dace of ink.— (F. Buchanan , 

Pvnchjexbx. — A village or hamlet in the Morung, 30 miles S. W. from Del* 
lamcotUu IsL 26° 44' N. long. 82° 26' E. 



THE PRINCIPALITY OF SIKKIM. 


The ancient limits of this principality are uncertain^, but according tq native 
authorities, they were separated from Chinese dominions in Tibet, by a $dge of 
mountains named Khawa Karpola, or the mountains white with snow, while fur- 
ther down, the Conki formed the boundary to the west until it reached the 
plain, where the whole tract of low country belonged to the Morung (or Vijaya- 
poor) Raja, and after his fall devolved to the Gorkhas. Between the Mahananda 
and the Teesta, the Sikkim Raja possessed a low tract seven or eight miles wide, 
inhabited by the Cooch tribe, and cultivated with the plough. Such were its 
ancient possessions, but since its recent connection with the British government, 
Sikkim has received, what most native states receive unwillingly, a compact and 
well defined boundary. To the north it is separated by the Himalaya mountains 
from the Chinese dominions in Tibet, on the south it has the Nepaulese division 
of Morung and the Bengal district of Rungpoor, to the east it is separated from 
theDeb Raja of Bootan’s territories by the course of the eastern branch of the 
Teesta river, and on the west from those of Nepaul by the Conki river. In 
length it may be estimated at 60 miles by 40 the average breadth. Except & 
small section of the plain, the whole of this country is situated among the hills, 
and its productions, vegetable and mineral, entirely resemble those of the Ne- 
paul territories, which are similarly situated with respect to latitude and 
elevation. 

According to native authorities there are on the Conki two marts named Bilasi 
and Majhoya, to which the traders from the plains carry rice, salt, extract of 
sugar cane, hogs, dry fish, tobacco, spirituous liquor, and various cloths. Before 
the Gorkha conquest they also took oxen for the slaughter; but that tribe being 
Hindoos, prohibited such sacrilege. The traders procured in return front '(foe 
mountaineers, cotton, Indian madder, musk, and Tibet cow and bull tails. At 
Dimali, on the Balakongysr river there is a mart or custom-house, consisting of 
a square surrounded by buildings, into which the merchants and their com- 
modities are received, there being no other dwellings except those of tin col- 
lector and his assistants. To this place the dealers from the low country take 



SIKKIM 


721 

up salt, tobacco, cotton cloths, goats, fowls, swine, iron, and occasionally broad 
doth, and in return bring back munjeet or Indian madder, cotton, bees’ wax, 
blankets, horses, musk/ cow and bull tails, Chinese flowered silk and rhinoce- 
roses horns* 

North from Dimali half a day’s journey, according to the same informants, on 
a hill near the source of the Balakongyar, was the residence of Yu-kang-ta, the 
Lapcha chief, who formerly collected the duties for the Gorkhas, By the 
natives of Sikkim it is named Samdung, but by the Bengalese, Nagreecote; east 
from which, two days’ journey, near the source of the Mahananda, there is said 
to be another gola, or mart, now much neglected. The greater part of Sikkim 
is included between the two arms of the Teesta, where the soil is watered by 
different branches of that stream ; the space forming a sort of valley, and although 
the whole is extremely mountainous, yet there is much cultivation carried on, 
the principle articles being rice and Indian madder. Beyond Samdung and 
Satang one day's journey, and on the other side of the first high mountains, is 
Darjiling, which appears to have been one of the most important strong holds of 
the country, as it was selected by the Gorkhas for their principal military sta- 
tion. From thence to Sikkim, the capital, is six days’ journey, and the snowy 
mountains are said to be about the same distance still further north. In 1 809, 
the Sikkim Raja, besides the petty territory of Gandhauk, or Gamtoo, bounded 
on the west by the western branch of the Teesta, possessed a small portion 
beyond the Lesser or Eastern Teesta, which, however, formed in general the 
boundary between his lands and those of the Deb Raja of Bootan. According 
to tradition, the Sikkim state had, at one time, overrun a great part of the 
country bordering on Rungpoor, and probably then compelled the Bykantpoor 
zemindar to abandon the forest and seek a refuge further south. In 1772, the 
latter was found in firm alliance with the Bootan government against the com- 
mon enemy. 

The inhabitants of this principality consist almost entirely of the Lapcha 
tribe, the country being named Sikkim or Sikkim Bhote, from the name of its 
capital, and from its being subject to a Bhootea chief. These Lapchas may be 
considered the 4th of more important tribes to the east of Nepaul valley, and in 
their manners much resemble the Kirauts, but instead of having chosen a Raj- 
poot chief, they appear to have selected for their leader a native of Tibet, in 
consequence of which the Lama doctrines have made considerable progress 
among them. The Lapchas eat beef, pork, and every other aliment reckoned 
detectable by the Brahminical Hindoos, drink ardent spirits to excess, neither- 
do they marry their females until they have attained the age of maturity. The 
men were formerly, and probably are still, mostly armed with sword* and bow*, 
VAf If 4 z 



SIKKIM. 


722 

from which last they discharged poisoned arrows. Spears were not used, 
as being ill suited to a country thickly overgrown with jungle, where men can- 
not charge in compact order. They have a few matchlock musquets, but mostly 
too large to be fired without a rest. Besides the Bhooteas, who are principally 
attached to the chief, and the Lapchas by whom he is guarded, the hills of Sik- 
kim are said to contain many people of the Limboo tribe. The Lama religion, 
although far from universal, is decidedly the most prevalent, and the partial 
incarnations of the deity in the bodies of inspired Lamas of such frequent oc- 
currence, that in 1809, within the limits of the Lapcha and Kiraut countries, 
there were said to be no less than 12 existing at the same time. 

The princes of Sikkim, predecessors of the present Raja, were Bhooteas, 
said to be sprung from a high family at Lassa, who took the title of Geupo. But 
although the chief is of Bhootea origin, the strength of the Sikkim arrpies has 
always consisted of Lapchas, the Bhooteas being naturally a very tiidid race, 
quite stupified by the enervating influence of what they call religion. The 
Lapchas, on other hand, continue a set of vigorous barbarians, of whom only 
about one half have been deluded by the monkish austerities and superior learn- 
ing of the Lamas. Formerly the second dignitary in the state was the Hang or 
chief of the Lapchas, who probably was the real sovereign in temporal affairs, 
the Gelpo presiding in matters of religion. It is not known how many princes 
succeeded to the throne of Sikkim, but is probable that the Bhooteas have been 
paramount in the country for a considerable time. The chief who governed 
Sikkim prior to 1782, by the natives of Bengal was named Roop Chiring, 
whose residence was at Darjiling, where he had a strong house built of brick, 
much admired in that region. This prince died about the year 1782, and was 
succeeded by his son, Chawa Raja, which is the name given by the people of 
the country to the heir apparent. 

In A. D. 1788, the Gorkhas invaded Sikkim with an army of about 6000 men, 
of whom 2000 were regulars, the whole commanded by Tierar Singh, the Subah 
of the Momng. This officer received no opposition until he approached Sikkim, 
the capital, in defence of which the Raja ventured a battle, when, after a des- 
perate resistance, he was completely defeated, owing probably to the Gorkha 
musqueteers, who also sustained a considerable loss, yet were immediately 
after able to besiege the capital. All these events took place at some period 
prior to the 28th of October, 1788. After experiencing this disaster, the Raja 
retired towards the frontiers of Tibet, in order to reassemble an army, and to 
solicit assistance from the Deb Raja of Bootan, and the pontiff Lama of Lassa. 
With the first a treaty was soon concluded, by the conditions of which the 
Sikkim chief engaged to pay a tribute to the Bootan Raja, if through his 



SIKKIM. 723 

tions he succeeded in recovering his dominions, and being in consequence rein- 
forced by a considerable detachment of Bootanners, and also by a party of 
Bhooteas from a province of Tibet named Portaw, he returned towards his ca- 
pital about the beginning of December. His approach compelled the Gorkhas 
to raise the siege, and after losing many men in a skirmish, they retired towards 
Ilam, on the Conki, where they erected forts to secure a communication with 
the Morung. 

It is probable that about this period the Sikkim Raja died, leaving his son, 
Kurin Namki, an infant. The war was then conducted by Yuk-su-thuk, the 
Hang, or chief of the Lapchas, who was next in rank to the Raja, while the 
metropolis was defended By the Hangs brother Namoi, named Lamjit by the 
Bengalese. Early in 1789, the Bootanners retired, probably for want of pay 
or plunder, and the greater part of the people of Sikkim submitted quietly to 
the Gorkha yoke, while the dethroned Raja fled to Tankiya, in Tibet, and the 
Hang of the Lapchas retreated. to a strong hold situated between the two 
branches of the Teesta, from whence he ever after annoyed the invaders of his 
country. This place, named Gandhauk, or Gamtoo, has a territory annexed to 
it of considerable extent, which afforded the Raja an income of 7000 rupees per 
annum, but being also a man of high birth, he obtained in marriage a (laughter 
of the chief minister at Lassa, with whom in 1 809 he returned to the petty do- 
minion which the energy of his minister (the Hang) had preserved. 

Both the Dharma or sacerdotal Raja of Bootan, and the pontiff of Lassa, 
were now seriously alarmed by the progress of the Gorkhas, and applied to the 
Emperor of China for his interposition. This proved effectual in securing the 
Bootan chief, but the Tibetians were obliged to cede to the Gorkhas the pro- 
vince of Kutti, which still forms the government of Kheroo, at the head of the 
Sancosi, near the Arun, and comprehended in the division of Chayenpoor. The 
Lapchas, however, notwithstanding the apparent desperation of their affairs, 
continued to give the Gorkhas so much trouble, that at last, as a measure of 
policy, they consented to give them a governor of their own tribe, who, in 1808, 
continued to exercise the whole civil authority, paying an annual tribute to the 
government at Catmandoo. In military matters he was subordinate to the Subah 
of Chayenpoor, and Gorkha garrisons were established at Sikkim and Darjiling, 
the two principal stations of the district. 

The affairs of Sikkim continued in this unsatisfactory state until the rupture 
vvitiit the Gorkhas in 1814, when the Raja immediately declared against them 
and acted the part of a faithful, and, according to the extent of his resources, 
an useful ally to the British nation. At the pacification of 1816, he was, in 
consequence rewarded by the recovery of a considerable portion of his territory 

4 z 2 



SIKKIM. 


724 

within the hills, to which the British government added a tract of low land 
ceded by the Gorkhas to the east of the Mutchee. This last mentioned section 
is a slip of land about 12 or 14 miles in breadth, reckoning from the foot of the 
hills, and very thinly inhabited. Only detached portions of it are cultivated, 
being separated from each other by forests which are altogether impassable du- 
ring the rainy season. The land under actual tillage is extremely fertile and 
capable of yielding any crop, but at present its produce is chiefly confined to 
rice, oil seeds, and a few other articles of small note and quantity. The scanty 
population may be accounted for partly by the insalubrity of the climate, but 
more especially from its haying been the extreme point eastward to which the 
Gorkhas extended their conquests, and the very spot where the last struggle 
took place between the Subah of Morung and the Sikkim authorities.! These 
military operations lasted two campaigns, and compelled most of the inhabitants 
to seek an asylum within the British provinces. In consequence of these unfa* 
vourable circumstances the whole of Nizamtamh became depopulated^ after 
the Lapchas attacked the Gorkhas on the 3d of February, 1816 ; nor could any 
of the expatriated natives be induced to return, until it was ascertained that the f 
tract had been ceded to the British. The same process, although not to so ag- 
gravated a degree, took place in the pergunnah of Hatijusah. 

Besides the land revenue, the Gorkhas had other fiscal resources, such as a 
payment for permission to graze cattle, which tax, after the tract came into the 
possession of the British, was farmed for one year at 2500 rupees. The next 
extra branch was from the forests, which of course varied according to the de- 
mand for timber, but the forests to the east of the Mutchee, with the exception 
of those due north of Bykantpoor, are not valuable, so that the whole profit from 
this source was quite insignificant. The other items, such as a tax for permis- 
sion to gather berries and to catch parrots, were also petty and vexatious ; the 
first-mentioned monopoly yielding only 90 rupees per annum. In the pergun- 
nah of Hatisjusah under the Gorkha sway, each plough paid, the first year four 
annas ; the second, eight annas ; the third, one rupee ; the fourth, two rupees 
eleven annas ; and the fifth year, three rupees five annas, beyond which no ad- 
vance was exacted. 

From the information collected by the British functionaries while the settle- 
ments were under consideration, it appeared that a tract of low country was 
absolutely necessary for their comfort and subsistence ; but owing to physical cir- 
cumstances, considerable difficulties occurred in the arrangement of the boun- 
daries. The river Mutchee, at a very short distance before it enters the British 
territories, is separated into branches, one named the Old, and the other the 
New Mutchee, and the difficulty referred principally to the small tract lying 



SIKKIM- 725 

between these two branches, which is called Kopaulastie. If the Old Mutchee 
formed the frontier, all communication between the Nepauiese Morung and the 
lands of the Sikkim Raja, would be prevented, the country to the westward of 
that stream being for a considerable distance an impenetrable forest, extending 
to the hills and without inhabitants ; whereas, had any portion of Kopaulastie 
been retained by the Gorkhas, it would have proved a source of interminable 
dispute with the adjoining governments. Its annexation to the Bengal presi- 
dency was at one time recommended ; but the distance of the tract in question 
from the seat of authority in Rungpoor, and the entire ignorance of the people 
regarding the local observances within the British territories, rendered the ac- 
complishment of this measure of very doubtful advantage. The whole was in 
Consequence conferred on the Sikkim Raja, to be held by him exempt from any 
tribute, and subject to no other condition than those which would attach to the 
general relations established with that petty state. The conditions on which the 
tract within the hills was restored to the Sikkim Raja were — a cessation of all 
aggression on his part against the Gorkhas ; the employment of his military 
power and resources in aid of the British troops when engaged among the hills ; 
the exclusion of Europeans ; the surrender of criminals, and the protection of 
lawful commerce. 

While the discussions were pending, much embarrassment was experienced 
by Captain Latter in communicating in a language not understood by any Euro- 
pean, or even native inhabitant of the British provinces. The policy of sup- 
porting and strengthening the Sikkim principality was sufficiently obvious ; but 
the mere cession of the hill country, without the annexation of some of the low 
land, would not have accomplished the object, the latter being indispensable for 
the subsistence of the Lapcha garrisons. Neither were the inhabitants by these 
arrangements transferred to a foreign power, but to the controul of their origi- 
nal rulers, whose authority, notwithstanding the Gorkha usurpation, had never 
been wholly abrogated ; all public orders having invariably had the joint seal of 
the Sikkim Raja's Dewan, and the Gorkha Subah of Naggree. 

As may be supposed from the geographical position of his dominions, as well 
as tiie bond of a common religion, the Sikkim Rstja has been always closely con- 
nected with the Lamas of Lassa and Teshoo Loomboo, with the Deb Raja of 
Boo tan, and occasionally has maintained a diplomatic intercourse with the 
mightv empire of China. Latterly this interchange of couriers has increased, 
the Chine se functionaries in Tibet beginning to feel uneasy qualms at their un- 
expected contact with the British dominions. On the 8th of August, 1816, two 
Chinese envoys, of a rank answering to that of soubahdar in the Bengal army, 
arrived at the Sikkim Raja's court, accompanied by seventeen followers. Ac- 



SIKKIM. 


726 


[kaogeee. 


cording to the information collected by Captain Latter, these persons had been 
dispatched from Lassa by the Chinese viziers Tea Chang (or Te-Chan*Choon) for 
the purpose of inquiring if a letter, sent some time beforeby the Viziers to the 
British government, had been dispatched to Calcutta, and also to ascertain the 
existing state of affairs throughout Northern Hindostan. To these ambassadors, 
the Sikkim chief fully explained the nature of his recent connexion -with the 
British government, informing them, that although his troops had joined those 
of the British government against the Gorkhas, the allies meditated no hostile 
movement against any portion of the empire of China. Being well feasted, the 
envoys remained three days and seemed inclined to tarry much longer ; but the 
Raja being desirous to get rid of them, gained them over by a present of ready 
money, and prevailed on them to depart. The Sikkim Raja has since been the 
channel through which various dispatches have been transmitted from the Ben- 
gal government to the Chinese functionaries at Lassa. \ 

The restoration of this state under the British protection and guaranteed will 
constitute a barrier against Gorkha ambition and enterprize in an eastern direc- 
tion, and may eventually lead to an enlargement of our commercial relations 
with Tibet and Southern Tartary in general. It was well ascertained that the 
views of the Catmandoo cabinet had long been directed to this quarter, and 
there is no reason to suppose that the feeble states of Bootan and Assam could 
have resisted their arms. The reduction of these states, besides extending their 
territories along the British frontier, and thereby opening new sources of dissen- 
tion, would have in process of time led to a communication with the more 
distant empire of the Birmans, an event from which much embarrassment and 
contingent danger might have resulted. — ( F. Buchanan , Captain Latter , Public 
MS . Documents , <§r. fyc.) 

Sikkim (or Damoo Jung). — According to native information, this place 
stands on the west side of the Jhamikuma river, which rises on the south side 
of the Snowy Mountains, and opposite to the town separates into two branches; 
surrounding an immense mountain, on the top of which there is [a small level 
and a strong hold named Tasiding. The united streams, under the name of Re- 
mikma, afterwards join the Teesta. Lat. 27° 16' N. long. 88° 3' E. 110 miles 
N. by E. from the town of Purneah. 

Gandhauk (or Gamtoo). — A strong hold belonging to the Sikkim Raja, situ- 
ated between the Great and Little Teesta, about 30 miles N. from Dellamcotta. 
Lat. 27° 26' N. long. 88° 38' E. This place and the small territory attached to 
it were never subdued by the Gorkhas. 

Naogree (or Nagricote). — A fort and important military station in the Sik- 
kim Raja's dominions, 87 miles N. N. E. from the town of Purneah. Lat 



NAQOSEE.] SIKKIM. 7^7 

28* 66' N. long. 88° S' E. After the pacification of 1816. the Gorkhas a long 
time endeavoured to evade the cession to this fort, to which they attached much 
importance, but at length the Gorkha commandant consented to withdraw the 
garrison on condition that Captain Latter, the British commissioner, agreed to 
purchase the grain and stores, valued at 560 rupees. This was accordingly 
done, and the Nepaulese troops having marched out, the place was occu- 
pied by a detachment of British sepoy o on the 13th of April, 1816. When 
examined, it was found to be of extraordinary natural strength, to increase 
which, two iron 3-pounders were dispatched from Bengal, no larger pieces of 
ordnance being conveniently transportable in that rugged quarter. These, with 
a due proportion of ammunition, were presented to the Sikkim Raja as an ac- 
knowledgment for his zeal and fidelity. To prevent any aggression of the Sik- 
kim people, who were actuated by feelings of the greatest animosity against the 
Gorkhhs, it was necessary to leave in fort for some time a native officer and 30 
select sepoys ; which object being effected, and the other posts delivered to the 
Sikkim troops, the British detachment was withdrawn from the hills, and 
marched to their respective stations. Naggree may be considered the key to 
the hills in this quarter, as by having possession of it, it would be practicable 
in conjunction with our allies, the Lapchas, to get into the rear of Dellam- 
cotta, and some of the principal passes into Bootan . — (Public MS. Documents, 
Latter, 8$c.) 



BOOTAN 

(bhutan), or the country of the deb raja. 


This country is separated from the Raja of Sikkim’s territories by the course 
of the eastern branch of the Teesta, from whence it stretches easterly to an un- 
defined extent. To the north it is divided from Tibet by the Himalaya moun- 
tains ; and to the south it is bounded by Bengal and the unexplored province of 
Assam. In its greatest dimensions it may be roughly estimated at 250 ipiles in 
length by 90 the average breadth. The term Bhote is applied by the Hindoos 
not only to the country named Bootan by Europeans, but also to the tract ex- 
tending along and immediately adjoining both sides of the Himalaya, in which 
sense it is a very extensive region, occupying the whole mountainous space 
from Cashmere to China. In the present article, however, the word Bootan is 
restricted to the country of the Deb Raja, comprehended within the limits above 
specified, and the name of Bootanners confined to his subjects, in order to dis- 
tinguish them from the more expanded tribe of Bhooteas (Bhotiyas), although 
in aspect, manners, and religion, there is so entire a resemblance as to leave 
little doubt of their being both sprung from the same origin. 

The northern portion of this province presents nothing to the view but the 
most mis-shapen irregularities ; some mountains covered with perpetual snow, 
others with perennial verdure and rich with abundant forests of large and lofty 
trees. Almost every mountain has a rapid torrent at its base, and many of the 
most elevated have populous villages amidst orchards and other plantations. In 
its external appearance it is the reverse of Tibet, which is a level table land. 
The mountainous boundary of Bootan towards Tibet forms part of the great 
chain which geographers term Mons Imaus, or Emodus, and of which frequent 
mention is made in the mythological legends of the Brahmins by the name of 
Himalaya. At the base of the hills, towards the Bengal frontier, is a plain of 
about 25 miles in breadth, choked up with the most luxuriant vegetation ; and, 
from its inaptitude to supply the wants or facilitate the functions of human life, 
was for a long time considered as properly belonging to neither. The exhala- 
tions arising from the multitude of springs which the vicinity of the mountains 
produces, are collected and confined by the woods, and generate a most pesti- 
lential atmosphere. The trees are large, and the forests abound with elephant* 



BOOTAN. 729 

*»*1 rhinoceroses, but the human animal is much debased in form, size, and 
strength. 

The climate of Bootan affords every degree of variation, for at the time the 
inhabitants of Punakha are cautious of exposing themselves to an almost ver- 
tical sun, those of Ghassa feel all the rigour of winter, and are chilled by ever- 
lasting snows ; yet these places are within sight of each other. Where the climate 
is temperate, almost every favourable aspect of the mountains coated with the 
smallest quantity of soil, is cleared and adapted for cultivation by being shelved 
into horizontal beds. The country abounds with excellent limestone, but the 
natives appear unacquainted with its uses for agricultural purposes. The season 
of the rains about Tassisudon, the capital, is remarkably moderate ; there are 
frequent showers, but none of those heavy torrents which accompany the mon- 
soon in Bengal. In the hilly tracts of Bootan, strawberries, raspberries, and 
blackberries, are found growing wild, and there are also apple, pear, peach, and 
apricot trees. The forests abound with a variety of handsome timber, such as 
the ash, birch, maple, yew, pine, and fir, but no oak trees. The fir is often seen 
eight and ten feet in girth. . The Bootan turnips are remarkably good, being 
large, free from fibres, and very sweet. The best fruits are oranges, peaches, 
apricots, pomegranates, and walnuts. For the purposes of irrigation, the Boo- 
tanners conduct water across the chasms of the mountains through the hollow 
trunks of trees. In this country a great proportion of the field labour is trans- 
ferred to the females, who plant and weed, and to them eventually the task falls 
of applying the sickle, and brandishing the flail. In all labouring offices they 
are exposed to hardships and inclement weather. 

Wild animals are not numerous in Bootan, but monkies of a large and hand- 
some kind abound, being held sacred by the Bhooteas as well as by the Hindoos, 
The species of horse which is indigenous to Bootan, is called Tanyan, or Tan- 
gun, from Tangusthan, the general appellation of that assemblage of mountains 
which constitutes the territory of Bootan, the breed being altogether confined 
within these limits. They are usually 13 hands high, and remarkable for their 
symmetry and just proportions. They are distinguished in general by a ten- 
dency^ piebald, those of one colour being rare. They are short bodied, clean 
limbed, and although deep in the chest extremely active. Accustomed among 
their native mountains to struggle against opposition, they seem to inherit this 
spirit a$ a principle of their nature, and hence have acquired among Europeans 
a character of being headstrong and ungovernable, though in reality it proceeds 
from an excess of eagerness to perform their task. 

A caravan dispatched by the Deb Raja annually visits the Rungpoor district, 
bringing with it the coarse woollen manufactures of the country, Tibet cow*. 

vox* ii. 6 a 



730 BOOTAN. 

tails, beeswax, walnuts, ivory, musk, gold dust, silver in ingots, some Chinese 
silks, tea, paper, and knives, besides the horses which carry them. These ad* 
ventures are entirely on account of the Deb Raja, to whom the goods belong, 
most of which have probably been received in kind, in payment of the revenue, 
>ut the Bum total in a national point of view is quite insignificant. The returns 
usually consist of English woollens, indigo, dried fish, quicksilver, cloves, nut- 
megs, incense, red sandal and sandal wood, sheet and wrought copper, tin, gun* 
powder, otter-skins, rhinoceroses’ horns and hides, cotton cloth, coral, and swine* 
The aggregate amount of the whole seldom exceeds 30,000 rupees, of which the 
indigo alone engrosses half the value. The privilege of thus sending a caravan 
into Bootan Proper, has never been conceded even to the Bengalese Ify this 
jealous and timid goverment, although the subjects of the latter are allowed an 
unrestricted trade in the low country, through which they drive up many swine to 
the mountains. A similar interchange also takes place with the eastern divisions 
of Rungpoor, but the adjacent level districts of Bootan being nearly a Wast£, 
the petty traffic between the two countries is almost restricted to dried fish and 
cotton. Small as this trade formerly was, it is said to have latterly declined, 
although all the heavy duties, formerly levied on the Bootan exports, were re- 
moved by Lord Cornwallis; it is probable, however, that the insignificant traffic 
so eagerly sought after by the British authorities both at home and abroad; has 
not so much actually declined, as taken a different direction. The presents sent 
by the Deb Raja to the Bengal Presidency, in 1772, consisted of sheets of gilt 
leather, stamped with the black eagle of the Russian armorial ; talents of gold 
and silver, and bulses of gold dust ; bags of genuine musk ; narrow woollen 
cloths, the manufacture of Tibet ; and silks of China. The chests which con- 
tained them were of good workmanship, and joined together by dove-tailed 
work. The Narrainee, a base silver coin struck in Cooch Bahar, is current 
throughout Bootan, as in that country there are local prejudices against a mint. 
It is of the value of about lOd. or rather more than one- third of a sicca rupee ; 
the name is derived from the Hindoo mythology. 

The military weapons of the Bootanners are the bow and arrow, a short 
straight sword, and a faulchion reflected like a pruning knife. In war they use 
poisoned arrows, tainted with poison whicfy they procure from a plant as yet 
unknown to Europeans. In appearance it is an inspissated vegetable juice, much 
resembling crude opium. Their matchlocks are very contemptible, and of no 
uae except in the finest weather, when the match will burn and the priming take 
fire in an open pan. In the management of the sword and shield they are very 
dexterous, and most excellent archers. They have wall pieces, but no cannon* . 
A. strong jealousy of all intercourse with the inhabitants of Hindostan prevails 



BOOTAN. 731 

universally throughout this region, which has not been diminished by the recent 
progress of the British arms, among mountains which had never been conquered, 
or even seriously invaded by any of the Mahommedan powers. 

In person there is a remarkable dissimilarity between the feeble bodied, meek 
spirited natives of Bengal and their active and Herculean neighbours the moun- 
taineers of Bootan, many of whom are six feet in height. A strong similarity of 
feature pervades the whole Bhootea race, who, though of a dark oomplexion, are 
more ruddy and robust than the Bengalese, with broader faces and high cheek 
bones. They are greatly afflicted with glandular swellings in the throat, from 
which the natives of Bengal are exempted, it being calculated that one person 
in six is affected with this distemper The Bootanners have black hair which 
they cut close to the head. Their eye is a very remarkable feature, being small 
and black, with long pointed corners, as if stretched and extended by artificial 
means. Their eye-lashes are so thin as to be scarcely perceptible, and the eye- 
brow is but slightly shaded. Below the eye is the broadest part of the face, 
which is rather flat, and narrows from the cheek bones to the chin, a character 
of countenance prevalent among the Tartar tribes, and more particularly among 
the Chinese. The skins of the Bootanners are smooth, and most of them arrive 
at a very advanced age before they have even the rudiments of a beard ; their 
whiskers also are of very scanty growth. 

Their houses are in general only one story high, but the palace of the Deb 
Raja at Tassisudon consists of many floors, the ascent to which is by lofty 
stairs, an unusual ^circumstance in Bootan. In a country composed of moun- 
tains and intersected by torrents, bridges must necessarily be of such frequent 
occurrence, that a traveller has commonly one or more to pass every day’s jour- 
ney. These are of various constructions, generally of timber, but sometimes 
swung on iron chains. Woollen cloth for raiment ; meat, spirits, and tea, are in 
use among the. Bootanners, who are strangers to the subtle niceties and refined 
distinctions of the Hindoos which constitute the absurd perplexity of caste. 
As a refreshment, tea is as common in Bootan as in China, but it is made in a 
very different way from that which Europeans are accustomed Ao follow. In 
preparing this beverage (if it may be so called) the Bootanners make a compound 
of water, flour, salt, butter, and Bohea tea, with some other astringent ingre- 
dients, all boiled and beat up together. When they have finished the cup, they 
Bek it with their tongue in order to make it clean, after which the higher classes 
wrap it up in a piece of scarlet silk. In some instances their medical practice 
is rendered unpleasant to the physician, who, when the Deb Raja takes a dose 
df physic, is obliged to swallow, however unseasonably, a proportionate quan- 
tity of the same medicine. 


5 a a 



732 BOOTAN. 

The ministers of religion in Bootan ere of the Buddhist sect, and form a 
distinct class, confined solely to performing the duties of their faith. The com* 
mon people, pretending to no interference in matters of spiritual concern, leave 
religion with all its rites and ceremonies to those who are attached by early 
obligation to its doctrines and austerities* Although there is no distinction of 
caste among the Bootanners, yet they are not without differences in religious 
'opinions, the precepts of Sakhya Singh (the school to which they adhere) differ- 
ing essentially from that of Gautama, and permitting the consumption of every 
species of food that is considered impure and abominable by the Brahmins. Om 
mauni paimi om, an invocation to which ideas of peculiar sanctity are annexed 
by the inhabitants of Bootan and Tibet, are words inscribed on most of their 
public buildings. They are also frequently engraved on the rocks in lark'e and 
deep characters, and sometimes rendered legible on the sides of hills, by Vneans 
of stones fixed in the earth of so great a size as to be visible at a considerable 
distance. In the performance of any religious duty, the Bootan functionaries 
admit of no interruption whatever, which has proved the cause of infinite delay 
and inconvenience to the British diplomatists who have had business to transact 
with them. 

The Deb Raja who resides at Tassisudon is usually considered to be the 
supreme head of the province, but in a strict sense he is only the secular 
governor, the legitimate sovereign being the Dharma Raja, a supposed incarna- 
tion of the deity ; but as this sacred person never interferes in lay affairs, he is 
only known to foreigners through the transactions of his deputy the Deb Raja. 
There are said to be 18 passes from the low countries to the mountains, and se- 
veral of the most important are placed under the controul of officers named 
Subahs, the extent of whose power is uncertain. In the hot and rainy season, 
the Subah usually resides at a fortress among the mountains, but in the cold 
season he descends to the lower hills, and often visits the plains, either to 
enforce obedience, or to invade the neighbouring states, on which occasion their 
attacks exhibit a combination of cowardice, perfidy, and the most fiend-like 
cruelty. Both the lower hilly country, and the plain belonging to Bootan, are 
partitioned into small domains, each having a distinct officer for the collection of 
the revenue and the superintendence of the police. Some of these are chiefs of 
the subdued communities, for no genuine Bhootea has settled in these parts ; 
others are native Bootanners of the mountains. The hereditary chiefs pay a fixed 
revenue, while the Bootan officers collect the land-tax on account of government 
The lowest officers of the government are named Mookhees, who are generally 
taken into the service when young, and in course of time have the chance of 
rising to the highest stations. 



BOOTAN* 7 S3 

The Deb Raja s authority is best established in the plain and in the country 
adjacent to the line of road leading from Bengal to Tassisudon the capital ; for 
with the country to the east and west we are but little acquainted. The prin- 
cipal towns are Tassisudon, Poonakha, Wandipoor, Ghassa, and Murichom. The 
nearest governor to the Sikkim frontier is the Subah of Dellamcotta, next to him 
the Subah of Luckidwar, then the Subah of Buxedwar; and east from the 
Gudhador river is the Subah of Burradwar. The next governor towards the 
east is the Subah of Repudwar, who has under him a jungly district named Ray- 
mana, bounded on the east by the Sonkosh, and still further east is the Subah of 
Cherang, a place at the head of a pass, four days’ journey from Cutchubarry. 
The country between the Sonkosh and the Ayi belongs to a tributary, and 
beyond the river last mentioned the Bijnee territories commence, the country to 
the north and east of which is wholly unknown. 

In ancient Hindoo writings the denomination of the country which we call 
Bootan is Madra, but respecting its early history we have no record or tradition. 
The first intercourse of its government with the British nation happened in 1772, 
in which year the Deb Raja suddenly invaded the principality of Gooch Bahar, 
and meeting with little opposition from the natives, rapidly gained possession of 
the country. This was decidedly the first instance of hostility between the two 
governments, and it had proceeded to the last extremity before the government 
of Bengal, which had hitherto derived no benefit from the contested territory, 
was apprized of what had befallen it. The invaders were easily driven back by 
two battalions of native infantry, and next year pursued by a detachment under 
Captain John Jones into their own territories, where the fortress of Dellamcotta 
was taken by storm. This exploit greatly alarmed the Bootan Raja for his own 
safety, and induced him to apply to the Teshoo Lama, through whose mediation 
a peace was subsequently arranged. After the defeat and flight of the Bootan- 
ners in 1772, Durp Deo, the chief of Bykantpoor, who had joined them, sent a 
messenger from the jungles to which he had fled, begging to be restored to his 
estate, in consideration of which he engaged to pay a tribute of 25,000 rupees 
per annum, in place of 10,000 rupees, which had hitherto been his stipulated 
payment* These terms were accordingly acceded to, and the zemindar was put 
in possession, not only of his former estate, but also of what had been alienated 
by the Boptanners. 

The present possessions of Bootan to the south-west are separated from the 
Bengal districts by the river Teesta, as far south as Gopaulgunge, a village 
situated on the eastern bank of that river. To the south of this point the 
British territories cross the Teesta, and intermix with those of Bootan in a most 
irregidur manner, the line of boundary in this quarter being altogether 



BOOTAN. 


734 

imaginary. Portions of territory belonging to each state are completely insu- 
lated by the possessions of the other, as exemplified in the extensive tract 
named Phulacotta, which lies to the west of the Teeita, and is completely sur- 
rounded by the Bengalese zemindary of Bykantpoor, without any intelligibly or 
even perceptible land marks. The retention of Phulacotta, however, is attended 
•with such lucrative advantages to the Subah of Dellamcotta and the local 
officers, that no hopes are entertained of being able to effect its purchase or ex- 
change for some other space of adequate value. 

The European reader will scarcely believe that along the whole line of British 
frontier, from the Sutuleje to the Brahmaputra, there exists, and always has 
existed, a regular and persevering system of encroachment on the British pos- 
sessions, which, although frequently detected and baffled, has in many instances 
proved successful. In these attempts no nation has proceeded more prosper- 
ously than the Bootanners, whose encroachments have not been confined tip that 
part of the boundary west of Cooch Bahar, although it began there. The line 
of frontier east of the Sonkosh, to the confines of Assam, has been still more 
subjected to their intrusions, as in this quarter they have managed to appropriate 
to themselves the large border estate of Bidyagong, immediately adjacent to 
Bijnee, where their interference, as will be seen under that head, was still more 
irregular. The Bidyagong estate was originally obliged to deliver annually 40 
elephants to the British government, which last as the feudal superior had the 
sole right of nominating to" the succession. It is true that the Bidyagong chief 
gave the Bootanners, yearly, about 400 rupees worth of cotton cloths and dried 
fish, but this was done merely to conciliate the good will of a tribe, which, from 
its position, was always able to harass his estate. The Bootan government 
never dared to dispute the sovereignty of the estate with the Moguls, from whom 
the delivery of the commodities above-mentioned was probably always kept a 
profound secret. The Deb Raja, while the attention of the Bengal presidency 
was directed elsewhere, got possession of the Bidyagong zemindary, and some 
years after, when the circumstances of the case were reported, it was determined 
to forego all claim to an object which then appeared of trivial importance. In 
the correspondence which took place before that resolution was definitively 
adopted, the Deb Raja, on being required to produce his documents, replied that 
it was not customary for the Bootanners to be regulated by writings but by 
possession. 

In 1815, the Bootan government was suspected of having combined with the, 
Gorkhas against the British, but this appears improbable. In 1816, the advance 
of the Chinese forces towards Nepaul excited a considerable sensation at the 
court of the Deb Raja, where it was ascribed to the intrigues and misrepresea- 



viiszftVPW.] BOOTAN. 735 

totioas of the Gorkhas, and the Deb expressed his hopes of assistance, in Case he 
inclined the displeasure of the Chinese government by refusing to act against 
the British. These amicable professions, however, were probably elicited by 
the existing state of affairs in Bootan, where, in consequence of some difference 
between the Dharma or spiritual, and the Deb or secular Raja, the deposition of 
the latter was in contemplation and a civil war expected. To prevent this 
extremity, the Deb Raja declared that he would resign the reins of government 
After the.month of June, to Lama Sirree Tap, who before had disputed the suc- 
cession to the office of Deb Raja, and had been deposed after having actually 
assumed that dignity ; but the sincerity of these protestations was greatly ques- 
tioned, and it was not generally supposed he would actually perform what he 
professed in the moment of danger. In the event of a contest, one party will of 
course endeavour to conciliate the favour of the British, and the other that of the 
Chinese, whose direct authority will probably be ultimately established through- 
out Bootan, as it has been in Tibet. — (Captain Turner , F. Buchanan , Sisson , 
Public MS. Documents, D . Scott , cSpc. fyc. 8$c.) 

Tehintchieu River. — A river of Bootan which passes Tassisudon, and, being 
swelled by the united streams of the Hatchieu and the Patchieu, finds a passage 
through the mountains, from whence it is precipitated in tremendous cataracts, 
and rushing with rapidity between the high cliffs and vast stones that oppose its 
progress descends into a valley a few miles east of Buxedwar, from whence it 
proceeds to Bengal, where, under the name of the Gudadhar, it joins the Brahma- 
putra not far from Rangamatty . — ( Turner , fyc.) 

Tassisudon. — The residence of the Deb Raja, and modern capital of Bootan. 
Lat. 27° 5' N. long. 89° 40' E. 106 miles N. from the town of Cooch Bahar. 
This town stands in a highly cultivated valley, about three miles in length by 
one in breadth, intersected by the river Tehintchieu, the banks of which are 
lined with willows. On the surrounding mountains are some timber trees in- 
termixed with fir and pine, and a great variety of flowering shrubs. The climate 
generally is described as being remarkably salubrious. 

The castle or palace of Tassisudon is situated near the centre of ‘the valley, 
and is a building of stone of a quadrangular form. The walls are 30 feet high, 
and are pierced below with very small windows, apparently more for the purpose 
of admitting air than light. The citadel is a very lofty building, consisting of 
seven stories, each from 15 to 20 feet high. From the centre of these a square 
place of masonry rises, which supports a canopy of copper richly gilt, supposed 
to be over the image of the idol Maha Muni. The Deb Raja of Bootan dwells in 
the citadel, on the fourth story from the ground. In the vicinity of Tassisudon 



736 BOOTAN. [fA*o> 

there is a long line of sheds, where the workmen are employed in forging brazen 
gods, and various other ornaments disposed about their religious edifices. There 
is here also a considerable manufacture of paper, fabricated from the bark of a 
tree named deah, which grows in great abundance near Tassisudon, but is not 
produced in the tract adjacent to Bengal. It is very strong and capable of being 
woven, when gilt by way of ornament, into the texture of silks and satins*— 
( Turner , &;c.) 

Poonakha. — This is the winter residence of the Deb Raja, and being the 
warmest part of Bootan is selected for the cultivation of exotics from the sontn* 
The palace of Poonakha resembles that of Tassisudon, but is rather more spacious, 
and has in the same manner its citadel and gilded canopy. The town is situated 
on a peninsula, washed on two sides by the Matchieu and Patchieu rivers imme- 
diately before their junction. Lat. 27 ° 58' N. long. 89° 54' E. 17 miles N. E. 
from Tassisudon . — ( Turner , fyc.) \ 

Wandipoor. — This place lies about 24 miles travelling distance from Tassi* 
sudon in an easterly direction, and is esteemed by the Bootanners a place of great 
strength. Lat. 27° 51' N. long. 89° 57' E. It stands on the narrow extremity of 
a rock between the Matchieu, the Patchieu, and the Tehintchieu rivers, whose 
streams unite at its sharpened point, and form a river of considerable magnitude, 
which takes the name of Chantchieu, and flows south through the Rungpoor 
district, where it receives the Hindoo name of Gudadhar, and at last joins the 
Brahmaputra not far from Rangamatty. At Wandipoor there is a bridge of tur- 
pentine fir of 112 feet span, without the least iron in its construction, yet it is 
said to have lasted 150 years without exhibiting any symptom of decay. Owing 
to the peculiarity of its position, Wandipoor appears to be agitated by a per- 
petual hurricane. This is one of the consecrated towns of Bootan, where a con- 
siderable number of gylongs or monks are established- — (7'wmer, 8$c.) 

Ghassa, — The capital of a district in Bootan, and the station of a Zoonpoon 
or provincial governor. Lat. 27° 56' N. long. 89° 18' E. 23 miles W. by N- 
from Tassisudon. The highest mountains in this neighbourhood are covered 
with snow throughout the year, and are visible along the northern frontier of 
Bengal from Cooch Bahar to Pumeah. At the base of the loftiest is a spring of 
water so hot as scarcely to admit of bathing. — (Turner, S^c.) 

Dukka Jeung, — A town m the province of Bootan, 17 miles W. by S. from 
Tassisudon. Lat. 27° 46' N. long. 89° 26' E. 

Paro. — A town and district in the province of Bootan, 18 miles $* by W, 
from Tassisudon. Lat. 27° 43' N. long. 89° 32' E. The governor of the district, 
whose jurisdiction is of the first importance in Bootan, has his residence here. 



BOOTAN. 


MURICHOM.] 


737 


Its limits extend from the frontiers of Tibet to the borders of Bengal, and thence 
to the boundaries of the Sikkim Raja. It also comprehends the low lands at the 
foot of the Luckedwar mountains. The palace, or castle, of Paro is constructed, 
and the surrounding ground laid out, more with a view to strength and defence, 
than almost any other place in Bootan. The valley of Paro exceeds that of 
Tassisudon by a mile. It lies N. W. and S. E. and is irregularly intersected by 
the river. This is almost the only market in Bootan that is much frequented, 
and it is noted for the manufacture of images and the forging of arms, more par- 
ticularly swords and daggers and the barbs of arrows.— (Turnery <§*cj 

Chuka. — A castle in Bootan, near to which is a chain bridge of a remarkable 
construction, stretched over the river Tehintchieu. Lat. 27° 16' N. long. 89° 34' E. 

40 miles south from Tassisudon. The fortress of Chuka is a large building, 
placed on elevated ground, with only one entrance to the interior. It is built of 
stone, and the walls are of a prodigious thickness. The natives have no record 
to certify when the chain bridge was erected ; but are of opinion that it was 
fabricated by the Devata, or demigod, Tehupchal. The adjacent country 
abounds with strawberries, which are, however, seldom eaten by the genuine 
Bootanners. Here are also many well known English plants, such as docks, 
nettles, primroses, and dog-rose bushes, — a refreshing sight to an European eye. 

( Turner , fyc.) 

Murichom. — A small village in Bootan, situated on the west side of the 
Tehintchieu river, 45 miles south from Tassisudon. Lat. 27° 4 N. long. 89 35 E. 
This place consists of only 24 houses, but they are of a superior construction to 
most in Bootan. They are built of stone, with clay as a cement, of a square 
form, and the walls narrowing from the foundation to the top. The roof is sup- 
ported clear of the walls, and is composed of fir boards placed lengthways on 
cross beams and joists of fir, and confined by large stones laid on the top. The 
lower part of the house accommodates hogs, cows, and other animals; the first 
story is occupied by the family, and is ascended to by a ladder. 

Murichom stands on a space of level ground on the top of a mountain, and has 
much cultivated land in the vicinity. The farmers level the ground which they 
cultivate on the sides of the hills by * utting it into shelves, forming beds of such 
a size as the slop will admit. The native cinnamon, known in Bengal cookery 
by the name of Tezpaut, grows abundantly in the neighbourhood ; and in the 
season there are plenty of strawberries, raspberries, and peaches. The country 
surrounding Murichom is much infested by a small fly, which draws blood with 
& proboscis, and leaves behind a small blister full of black contaminated blood, 
which festers and causes much irritation.— (Turner, 8$c.) 

5b 


VOL. II. 



BOOTAN. 


738 


[SEDILI. 


Buxedwar (Bakshidwara ), — A remarkable pass leading from the belt of the 
low land that separates Cooch Bahar from Bootan. Lat. 26° 52' N. long. 89° 38' E, 
80 miles N. by E. from the town of Rungpoor. Buxedwar is a place of great 
natural strength, and being a frontier station of these mountains has been 
rendered strong by art. In 1783, the village consisted of ten or twelve houses, 
invisible until the very moment of entrance. It is placed upon a second table 
of levelled rock, upon which there is very little soil, yet it is covered with 
verdure in consequence of its sheltered situation, surrounded on three sides by 
lofty mountains, and open only to the south, which affords a narrower prospect 
of Bengal. The country continues flat to the foot of the Buxedwar hill. The 
ascent to Santarabary is easy, but the road afterwards becomes abrupt a^d pre- 
cipitous, the hills being covered with trees to their summits. At SantaVabary 
are extensive orange groves, and raspberry bushes are found in the jungles. — 
( Turnery §c.) \ 

Dellamcotta (Dalhncoth ). — This fortress, which commands the principal 
pass into Bootan from the south-west, was taken by storm in 1773 by a detach- 
ment under Captain John Jones. The fame of this exploit spread through the 
mountains, and greatly alarmed the Bootanners and Tibetians; but the fort was 
restored by Mr. Hastings at the intercession of the Teshoo Lama. The same 
importance is not now attached to it, since it is known that it could be easily 
turned by a detachment from Naggree in Sikkim. 

Cantalbarry. — A town in the low country, subject to Bootan, 29 miles 
N. N. W. from Cooch Bahar. Lat. 26 37' N. long. 89° 12' E. 

Chichacotta (Chichacata ). — This place is situated in the portion of the 
plain appertaining to Bootan, 19 miles N. from the town of Cooch Bahar. Lat. 
26° 35' N. long. 89° 43' E. During the rupture which took place in 1772, Chi- 
chacotta was taken from the Bootanners, after having been defended with much 
obstinacy and more personal courage than they usually display; but with 
matchlocks, sabres, and bows, they could not long contend against fire-locks, 
discipline, and cannon. It was restored at the conclusion of the war, and is now, 
although small, the principal town on this frontier. 

Sediu. — A small district between the Sonkosh and Ayi rivers, the chief of 
which is tributary to Bootan. The portion of this tract next to Rangamatty is 
said to be in tolerable condition, as the inhabitants, in case of attack, can escape 
to the British territories, where it is surprising they do not remain. Hie mote 
northerly parts, for want of the same asylum, are a complete waste. The tribute 
paid to the Deb Raja of Bootan is 600 rupees in cash, besides some oil# dried 
fish, and coarse cotton cloth. 



CUTCHtJBARRY.] BOOTAN. 739 

Cutchubarry (Cachabari ). — This place is under the jurisdiction of the 
Bootan Subah or governor of Cherang, four days’ journey from Cutchubarry, 
to which the Subah descends during the cold season. The town of Cutchubarry 
is said to be a mere collection of miserable huts, and the surrounding country, 
with the exception of a very few detached spots, covered with jungle, and 
abandoned to the wild animals. Lat.2G°42'N. long. 90° 10'E. 41 miles north 
from the town of Rangamatty. 


5 » 2 



THE KINGDOM OF ASSAM. 


(asam.) 


This remote country adjoins the province of Bengal at the north-eastern corner, 
about the 91st degree of E. longitude, from whence it stretches in an easterly 
direction to an undefined extent ; but it is probable that, about the 96th degree 
of east longitude, it meets the northern territories of Ava, and is separated by 
an intervening space of about 180 miles from the province of Yunan in China. 
In this direction it follows the course of the Brahmaputra, and is in fact the 
valley through which that noble stream flows. The average breadth of the 
valley may be estimated at 70 miles, although in a few places of Upper Assam, 
where the mountains recede furthest, the breadth considerably exceeds that 
extent. In its greatest dimensions Assam may be estimated at 350 miles in 
length by 60 the average breadth ; divided into three provinces, Camroop on 
the west, Assam Proper in the centre, and Sodiya at the eastern extremity. 

The present territory of the Assam Raja nowhere reaches the northern hills, 
the Deb Raja of Bootan having taken possession of all the territory adjacent 
thereto, which is a modern usurpation since the breaking out of the disturbances 
that have so long desolated this unhappy province. The western province, 
named Camroop, with several subordinate or intermixed petty jurisdictions, 
extends from the British boundary to near the celebrated temple of Middle 
Kamakhya, lat. 26° 36' N. long. 92° 56' E. being about 130 miles in length. 
From the boundary opposite to Goalpara to Nogorbera, a distance of 21 miles, 
the Assamese possess only the northern bank of the Brahmaputra, so that on 
the south side the length of this province is only 109 miles. Its width on the 
south side of the river may be reckoned at from 15 to 30, and on the north side 
on an average about 30 miles. About 104 miles above Gohati, which stands in 
long. 91° 48' E. the Brahmaputra separates into two branches, and encloses an 
island five days’ journey in length and about one in width. This province con- 
tains many low hills covered with woods, and also a great extent of fine low land, 
all susceptible of cultivation. 

Assam Proper, the middle province of the kingdom, is of greater extent than 
the western; but, no European having penetrated far beyond the capital, Gohati, 



ASSAM. 


741 

situated at its western extremity, there is no accurate data for ascertaining its 
length. The portion to the north of the Brahmaputra, named Charidwar, pro- 
bably exceeds 200 miles in length and 20 in average breadth ; but the length on 
the south side of that river is less considerable. It commences near the Middle 
Kamakhya, about 130 miles E. from Goalpara, and reaches to the Upper 
Kamakhya, which is said to be 10 miles below Tikliya Potar Mukh. Within these 
limits it comprehends the upper half of the western island formed by the Brah- 
maputra, and includes the whole of the very large island, named Majuli, between 
the main Brahmaputra and a branch named the Dehing. The province of Assam 
Proper is of a higher and a better soil than that of Camroop, and is said to con- 
tain few hills or woods. Of the third and most remote province, nothing is 
known, except that it is a small and insignificant tract on the west side of the 
Dikrong river, about long. 95° 10' E. In Mahommedan geography, Assam is 
considered as separated by the Brahmaputra into three grand divisions, called 
Ootercole, Dukhincole, and Majuli, which by Abul Fazel, in 1582, are described 
as follows : " The dominions of Assam join to Camroop : he is a very powerful 
prince, lives in great state ; and when he dies his principal attendants, both male 
and female, are voluntarily buried alive along with his corpse.” 

From the confines of Bengal, at the Kandar custom house, the valley, as well 
as the river and mountains, preserve a northern direction to a considerable dis- 
tance, and incline to the east by north ; and the valley throughout its whole 
length is divided by the Brahmaputra into longitudinal portions, that to the 
south having generally the greatest breadth. The river Cailasi is alleged to have 
been formerly the boundary between the British territory and Assam ; but now 
no part of that river passes through the British dominions. This encroachment 
of the Assamese is said to have taken place sometime between the years 1770 
and 1780, when six small districts were taken from the Bijnee Raja then tribu- 
tary to Bengal. At present, the Assam territory, where it is entered fromBengal, 
commences on the north of the Brahmaputra at Kandar, and on the south at the 
Nogurbera hill. On the north, Assam is bounded by the successive mountainous 
ranges of Bootan, Auka, Duffala, and Miree, and on the south by the Garrow 
mountains, which rise in proportion to their progress eastward, and change the 
name of Garrow to that of Naga. 

The number and magnitude of the rivers in Assam probably exceed those o t 
any other country in the world of equal extent. They are in general of a suf- 
ficient depth at all seasons to admit of a commercial intercourse in shallow 
boats, and, during the rains, boats of the largest size find sufficient depth of water. 
Hie number of rivers, of which the existence has been ascertained, amounts to 
61, including the Brahmaputra and its two great branches, the Dehing and the 



ASSAM. 


742 

Looichel ; 34 of these flow from the northern and 24 from the southern moun- 
tains. Many of these contributary streams are remarkable for their winding 
course. The Dikrung, although the direct distance is only 25 miles, performs 
a winding course equal to 10Q, before it falls into the Brahmaputra. The Dik- 
rung is famous for the quantity and quality of its gold, which metal is also found 
*in other rivers of Assam, more especially near the mountains. The southern 
rivers are never rapid ; the inundation commencing from the northern rivers fills 
both the Brahmaputra and the southern ones, so that the water has no consider- 
able current until May or June. 

The animal and vegetable productions of Assam are nearly the same with 
those of Bengal, which country it much resembles in« its physical appearance 
and the multitude of its rivers. Transplanted rice forms nearly three-fourths 
of the whole crops, but a little spring rice is also raised. Mustard seecft is the 
next considerable crop ; wheat, bailey and millet are but little used ; but various 
sorts of pulse are cultivated. Blank pepper, ginger, turmeric, capsicum, ohions, 
and garlic are also raised. Betel leaf is planted in every garden, tobacco is 
abundant, and opium is raised sufficient for home consumption. Sugar cane 
thrives, but no sugar is prepared, pomegranates and oranges are plenty, but 
coco nuts scarce, owing to the remoteness of the country from the sea. Cotton 
is mostly cultivated by the hill tribes ; but four different kinds of silkworms are 
reared, different silks forming the greater part of the clothing of the natives, 
and a quantity being also exported. In Assam many buffaloes are employed in 
the plough, sheep are very scarce, goats not numerous, but ducks and other 
aquatic birds abundant. 

The custom houses towards Bengal are usually farmed out to the best bidder ; 
and the whole trade of the country is in fact monopolized by these individuals, 
who, agreeably to the terms of the treaty concluded in February, 1793, ought to 
levy only 10 per cent, on exports and imports, but in reality extort what they 
choose. Formerly salt was sold by Europeans settled at Goalpara to the amount 
of 100,000 maunds annually ; but the trade being monopolized by the fanners 
of the customs, that quantity had diminished in 1809 to 35,000 maunds. This 
may also be in part attributed to a decreased demand, for since the disturbances 
in Assam, the number of inhabitants has been reduced, and those that remain 
impoverished. In 1809, the total value of the exports from Bengal to Assam 
was only 228,000 rupees; of which amount salt was 192,000 rupees, and mus- 
lins 10,000, the rest a variety of trifling articles, and a few fire-arms secretly 
smuggled. The imports were about 151,000 rupees, of which amount lac was 
55,000, cotton 35,000, mustard seed 22,000, Muga silk cloth 17,500, and Muga 
silk 11,350, ivory 6,500, and slaves 2,000 rupees. The balance is principally 



ASSAM. 74 3 

paid in gold, which is found in all the small rivers of Assam that flow from the 
northern and southern boundary, especially from the first. Many other valuable 
commodities and mineral productions would probably be discovered if the inter- 
course were on a better footing, but the extremely barbarous state of the country 
terrifies the timid Bengalese, and the advance of Europeans beyond the frontier 
is interdicted. 

Under the Mogul government the trade with Assam was a source of consider- 
able national profit, and for many years after the British domination commenced 
individuals profited largely by it, and it might even now be made productive of 
some emolument. This trade, which on the British side is free to all, on that of 
Assam is virtually under a strict monopoly, established illegally by the farmers 
of the customs, who fix an arbitrary price both on their own goods and on those 
of the Bengalese merchant, who is altogether at their mercy. A counter mono- 
poly of the traffic in salt, on the part of the British government, it is supposed, 
would tend greatly to correct the evil, and at the same time realize a considerable 
revenue. It does not appeal that any merchants from Assam repair so far as 
Lassa in Tibet, but a commercial intercourse is carried on between the two 
countries in the following manner. At a place called Chouna, two months’ 
journey from Lassa, on the confines of the two states, there is a mart established, 
and on the Assam side there is a similar mart at Gegunshur, distant four miles 
from Chouna. An annual caravan repairs from Lassa to Chouna, conducted by 
about 20 persons, conveying silver bullion to the amount of about one lack of 
rupees, and a considerable quantity of rock salt, for sale to the Assam merchants 
at Gegunshur, to which place the latter bring rice, which is imported into Tibet 
from Assam in large quantities; tussera cloth, a kind of coarse silk cloth 
manufactured by the native women in Assam, from the queen downwards; iron 
and lac, found in Assam ; and otter skins, buffaloe horns, pearls, and coral, 
first imported from Bengal. 

A peish cush or offering is sent annually from the Assam Raja to the Grand or 
Dalai Lama, but no other public intercourse, with the exception of the com- 
merce above described, appears to subsist between the Tibet and Assam states. 

All the royal family of Assam have a right to ascend the throne except such 
as have on their body some blemish or mark, whether from disease or accident. 
In order to preclude the dangers of a disputed succession, it was formerly a 
maxim to mark every youth that was not intended for presumptive heir by a 
wound on some conspicuous part, such as the nose or ear ; his children, if un- 
blemished, have still a right to the throne. The sovereign and nobility of Assam 
live in thatched huts, with walls of bamboo mat, supported by saul posts, and 



ASSAM. 


744 

built in the fashion of Bengal, with arched ridges and mud floors, each apartment 
being a separate hut. According to the Assamese constitution there are three 
great officers of state, named Gohaing, which dignified offices are hereditary in 
three great families. The word appears to be derived from the ancient language 
, of Assam, and the title is peculiar to the royal family. The Burra Boruya is 
the fourth great officer, and next to him come six functionaries denominated 
Phukons. By far the greater part of the land in Assam is granted to persons 
termed Pykes, each of whom is held bound to work gratuitously four months in 
the year either for the king or whatever person the royal pleasure substitutes. 
These people either work for their lord in whatever work they are skilled, or 
pay him a composition regulated by custom. Thesfe Pykes are place^l under 
four ranks of officers, supposed to command 1000, 100, 20, or 10 men, bot these 
numbers are in general only nominal, and the whole are a mere rabble without 
arms, discipline, or courage. The most important jurisdiction is the province of 
Camroop, contiguous to Bengal, the greater part of which was wrested fri>m the 
Mahommedans early in the reign of Aurengzebe. The Rajas are the original 
petty chiefs of the country, paying a certain tribute, and several of them are 
Garrows and other unconverted tribes. 

The officers under whom the Pykes or serfs of the crown are placed, the 
Rajas and the farmers of the revenue, have charge of the police. It is alleged 
that the guilty who can bribe escape with impunity, while the punishments of 
the convicted poor are atrociously cruel. Capital punishments extend to 
the whole family of a rebel, parents, sisters, wife and children, and it is proba- 
bly from these sources that the rafts are supplied, which are frequently seen 
floating down the Brahmaputra, past Goalpara, covered with human heads. AH 
the domestics are slaves, and they are numerous, every man of rank having 
several, mostly procured among the necessitous, who mortgage themselves. Some 
are exported, and about 100 of pure caste are annually sold in Bengal* The girls 
chiefly are bought by professional prostitutes, and cost from 12 to 15 rupees; 
A Cooch boy cost 25 rupees ; a Kolita 50 ; slaves of impure tribes are sold to 
the Garrows. No accurate estimate of the total population can be formed, but 
it is probably under half a million, three-fourths of the country being known to 
be desolate and covered with jungle. The principal towns are Jorhaut, the pre- 
sent capital, Gergong, Rungpoor, and Gohati, but they scarcely deserve the 
name of towns, being a mere collection of hovels, for in this wretched couutry 
there are no shops and few markets. There are, however, several remarkable 
military causeways which intersect the whole country, and must have been 
constructed with great labour ; but it is not known at what period. One of 
them extends from Cooch Bahar through Rangamatty to the extreme limits of 



ASSAM. 745 

Attain, and was found in existence when the Mahommedans first penetrated into 
this remote quarter. 

Nothing satisfactory has been ascertained respecting the ancient religion of 
the Assamese, except that they had a deity named Chung. From the beginning 
of the 17th century the Brahminical doctrines appear to have been gradually 
encroaching on the old superstitions, and about the middle of that age effected 
the conversion of the sovereign ; since when the governing party have entirely 
adopted the language of Bengal, which has become so prevalent, that the original 
Assamese, spoken so late as the reign of Aurengzebe, is already almost become 
a dead language. Brahmins, of various degrees of purity, are now the spiritual 
guides of the court, and* about three-fourths of the people ; but there remain 
many impure tribes, who still abandon themselves to the eating of beef and the 
drinking of strong liquors. In the parts adjacent to Bengal there are many 
Mahommedans, but they have so degenerated into heathen superstition that they 
are rejected, even by those of Rungpoor. It does not appear that the Christian 
religion has ever penetrated into this region. In 1793, when Captain Welsh 
drove the Mahamari priest and his rabble from the capital, they retired to 
Byangmara, south from Sodiya, where they still remain. 

The Assamese have traditions, and it is said books, in the ancient language, 
detailing their history before the Mahommedan invasion, but the information col- 
lected is as yet too imperfect to be depended upon. They are first noticed by 
Mogul authorities, in 1638, during the reign of Shah Jehan, when they sailed 
down the Brahmaputra and invaded Bengal; but were repulsed by that emperor’s 
officers, and eventually lost some of their own frontier provinces. In the reign 
of Aurengzebe, his general, Meer Jumlah, advanced fromCooch Bahar to attempt 
the conquest of Assam, on which occasion he met with no obstacles to his 
advance, except such as were presented by the nature of the county, until he 
arrived at the capital Gergong. When the season of the rains began, the 
Assamese came out of their hiding places, and harassed the imperial army, 
which became very sickly, and the flower of the Afghans, Persians, and Moguls 
perished. The rest tried to escape along the narrow causeways through the 
morasses, but few ever reached Bengal ; and the Assamese reconquered the 
western provinces, Which had been for some time in the possession of the Moguls. 
After this, no more expeditions were attempted against Assam, which the Ma- 
bommedans of Hindost&n have ever since viewed with singular horror, as a 
region only inhabited by infidels, hobgoblins, and devils. 

Hitherto the Assamese had been a warlike and enterprizing people, and their 
princes worthy of the government ; but after their conversion by the Brahmins 
the nation sunk into the most abject pusillanimity towards foreigners, and into 1 

vol. n. 6 c 



ASSAM. 


746 

internal turbulence and confusion. About 1770, the power of the spiritual 
teachers had acquired such strength, aud their insolence had become so iutoler* 
able, that the reigning Raja, with the view of curbing their pride, burned a 
building that had been erected contrary to law, by one of them named 
who guided a multitude of the lowest and most ignorant of the people. A re- 
* bellion which ensued was suppressed by the energy of the Raja, but the insumo* 
tion burst forth with increased fury under his son and successor, Geurinauth, 
who was driven from the throne by the base adherents of the Mahamari priest, 
who attempted to fill it with his own nephew. The dethroned Raja, however, 
having placed himself under the protection of Lord Cornwallis, that nobleman, 
a short time before his departure for Europe, sent Captain Wekn, in 1793, with 
1100 sepoys, who placed Gaurinauth on the throne of his ancestors, and shortly 
afterwards returned to Bengal. \ 

During the insurrection of the populace under the Mahamari priest, the most 
horrid excesses were committed, and most of the genuine Assamese men of rank 
were compelled to fly for refuge to a large island formed by the Brahmaputra. 
In these disastrous circumstances the only individual who evinced any courage 
or enterprize, was one of the hereditary counsellors of state, before mentioned, 
named the Burn Gohaing, who, on Captain Welsh’s returning to Bengal, seized 
on the whole authority of the government, expelled the Mahamari, and rendered 
the future Rajas of Assam mere pageants under him. On the death of Raja 
Gaurinath, which- he is said to have accelerated, he expelled die lawful heir, 
but to save appearances, and conciliate the natives, he set up a boy, sprung from 
a spurious branch of the royal family, whom he kept under the strictest seclu* 
sion from public affairs. 

Many years ago the Bengal government, in consequence of orders from 
Europe, established a salt agent at Goaipara to monopolize the Assam salt trade, 
but after several years’ trial, the loss sustained was so great, that die Marquis 
Cornwallis, who always abhorred petty traffic, ordered it to be suppressed. Mr. 
Daniel Raush, a respectable Hanoverian, succeeded as the principal merchant, 
but soon found himself creditor to the Raja, the Burn Gohaing, and to ntaay 
other chiefe, who had the address to get possession of his property, in spite of 
his caution and long experience of their bad faith. In 1796 he quitted his 
factory at Goaipara, entered Assam, and proceeded towards the capital, to 
endeavour to effect some compromise for his claims amounting to three lacks of 
rupees ; but on die route he was treacherously assassinated by the RqaofDring’t 
(or Dorong) followers, and had his pinnaces pillaged and his papers des troye d. 
In 1801, the Marquis Wellesley, compassionating the distress of Ms widow and 
destitute family, dispatched Cornul Lochun Nundy, a native agent, to dm court of 



ASSAM. 


747 

Assam, to recover the arrears ; in furtherance of which object he furnished him 
with letters to the Raja and prime minister, explanatory of his mission, and re- 
minding them, that they were wholly indebted for the re-establishment of their 
authority to the British succours under Captain Welsh in 1793* The agent* 
Nundy, proceeded accordingly to Jorhaut, the existing capital, where he found 
the Raja and his minister ostensibly fully disposed to render him every assist- 
ance, but in private obstructing him so effectually, that after being for two years 
amused with promises and sham trials, he would have returned from that 
miserable court as empty handed as he went, had he not on a frontier station 
recovered 10,000 rupees from a custom-house officer, who had less power, or 
more honesty, than his superiors. Indeed, the agent s description of the general 
anarchy, the injustice exercised, and the horrid cruelties perpetrated by whoever 
has the power, excites surprise that all the lower classes who have the means do 
not migrate to the British territories, which are close at hand, and contain 
immense tracts of waste land. 

In 1806, Sir George Barlow made another effort to recover something for Mr. 
Raush’s family, who offered to accept 20,000 in lieu of their whole claims, but 
with equally bad success. The Raja and his minister on this occasion, among 
other excuses for their want of punctuality, assigned the total anarchy of their 
country, and solicited the assistance of the British government to subdue the in- 
surgents, and to tranquillize their subjects ; an undertaking that would have cost 
one hundred times the amount claimed. After this evasive reply, the absolute 
inutility of again addressing the Assam state on the subject appeared nearly 
established, yet to leave nothing untried, on the 26th of February, 1813, another 
letter was dispatched, recalling the circumstances to the Raja’s, or rather to his 
minister's, recollection, and expressing the expectation of the British government, 
that he would effect gome equitable settlement. In his reply, received in Fe- 
bruary, 1814, the Raja acknowledges the receipt of a letter addressed to his 
brother, the late Raja, and then proceeds to describe the unfortunate condition 
of his country. From the eastward and northward the people of Nora, Khamti, 
Dopla, and Mahamari, had assembled and invaded his dominions ; while on the 
Bijnee frontier, a robber, named Manick Ray, had made repeated inroads, laid 
waste three pergunnahs, and plundered the custom-house of Kandar. The 
tenour of this reply proved as unsatisfactory as the prior one had been, but as 
as the case did not warrant a stronger interference than remonstrance, all further 
proceedings on the subject were suspended. 

For many years past the western confines of Assam have been infested by 
bands of freebooters, principally Burkindauzes from Upper Hindostan, who, 
availing themselves of the local peculiarities of the Bijnee estate, have been in 

5 c 2 



ASSAM. 


748 

the habit of waging a system of incursion and plunder on the Assam villages 
which lie contiguous to the Bengal frontier. The first regularly organized band 
of this description consisted of the followers of Gholaum Ali Beg, a Hindostany 
Mogul, who had been entertained by the Assam Rajas to fight against the Maha- 
mari, the inveterate enemies of the Assamese principality. The Bura Gohaing, 
soon after his usurpation, dismissed Gholaum Ali Beg and his band, and, as they 
assert, turned them out of the country without paying up their arrears. On this 
event, Gholaum Ali took up a position on the confines of Bijnee, beyond the Ayi 
river, from whence he has ever since made incursions into Assam. His first 
attack was on the Kandar chokey, or custom-house, in # 1805, at the head of 150 
men, when he stormed the post, and carried off such a booty, that on fiwelve of 
the gang, who were shortly after seized in Mymunsingh, 1600 rupees were 
found. From this time forward, Gholaum Ali continued to lurk on the Confines 
of Assam and Bijnee, with about 80 followers, not only ravaging the frontier 
villages of Assam, but making occasional inroads into the interior, plundering 
boats of valuable merchandize as they passed down the Manas river, which 
separates Bijnee from Assam. 

During this period of time the above adventurer is said to have acquired a 
kind of sovereignty over 16 villages, on the eastern bank of the Manas, from 
which he received a large revenue, readily paid by the inhabitants for protection; 
but lie was at length vanquished by another body of freebooters, led by a Hin- 
dostany Rajpoot, named Manick Ray, who drove Gholaum Ali into Bootan, and 
usurped his lucrative post on the frontiers of Bijnee, where he still harbours, 
doing indescribable mischief to that branch of the Goalpara trade navigated on 
the Manas, and making nightly plundering excursions into Assam. Both he and 
his predecessor, Gholaum Ali Beg, have been frequently pursued by the detach- 
ment of British sepoys stationed at Jughigopa, but the prders of government 
being peremptory against passing the Ayi river, all their efforts have been 
frustrated, and from the Bijnee Raja no coercion need be expected, as he is 
strongly suspected of sharing the profits of their depredations. In these harassed 
pergunnahs the tenantry have mostly given up a fixed residence. Many have 
retired within the British boundary, while others keep their women and chil- 
dren there, and every morning cross the river to cultivate the fields in Assam, 
but return at night to sleep in safety. 

Such is the deplorable condition of this fertile country, where the mass of the 
people are said to be extremely anxious to throw off the yoke of the usurper, 
but such on the other hand is his tyranny and their pusillanimity, that his rule is 
acquiesced in with the most unqualified submission. The rightful heir to the 
thiune is Birjinauth Coomar, the person who, in 1814, was detected by the 



camroop.] ASSAM. 749 

magistrate of Rungpoor in an attempt to head a large body of Burkindauzes 
against the Bura Gohaing, having been encouraged thereto by the general incli- 
nation of the country in his favour. It is generally supposed that the Bura 
Gohaing, knowing that Birjinauth was the legitimate heir, had disqualified him 
for the sovereignty by slitting, or otherwise disfiguring, one of his ears, which is 
not improbable, as he had been observed by Mr. Sisson, when acting magistrate 
of Rungpoor, always to conceal one ear within his turban. If it really be so, 
and as any bodily blemish is an insurmountable disqualification for the Assam 
thrpne, the people of that country must have invited him back with the view of 
electing one of his children in his stead. Circumstanced as he now is, his fate 
appears singularly hard, as, according to his own estimation, he is placed within 
reach of recovering his rights, and yet by the interference of the British govern- 
ment debarred the use of the means, after having involved himself in debt to a 
large amount in collecting volunteers to fight against the usurper. In 1814, 
Birjinauth Coomar had no means of subsistence except the precarious bounty of 
such individuals as pitied his distresses. He was then 40 years of age, and had 
two sons, the oldest about 14 years. The late dowager Ranny of Assam, who 
was a pensioner of the British government, at 50 rupees per month, adopted the 
oldest of the boys, and to him, in 1812, a continuance of the pension was autho- 
rized for five years ; but the father then subsisted by begging alms from the 
principal Rajas of Bengal, and is said to have been assisted among others by the 
Rajas of Burdwan and Cooch Bahar. 

Assam in its .present condition is so utterly destitute of any thing to attract a 
conqueror, that its invasion by the Chinese and Gorkhas of Nepaul may almost 
appear an extravagance; yet in the year 1815 two agents were dispatched on 
the part of the Nepaul government to the court of Assaift, which they quitted 
after sojourning somp time, and returned to their own country, either through 
the northern part of Bootan, or the southern tract of the Grand Lama's terri- 
tories. — (F. Buchanan , Sisson, Public MS. Documents , Wade, Comul Lochun 
Nundy , Abdul Russool , Gardner , #c. #c. 8$c.) 

Camroop ( Camarupa , the aspect of desire).— This was formerly an extensive 
Hindoo geographical division, extending from the river Korotoya, where it joined 
the ancient kingdom of Matsya, to the Dekkorbasini, a river of Assam, which 
enters the Brahmaputra a short distance to the east of the eastern Kamakhya, 
said to be 14 days’ journey by water above Jorhaut, the modern capital. On 
the north Camroop extended to the first range of the Bootan hills; the southern 
boundary was where the Lukhiya river separates from the Brahmaputra, where 
it adjoined the country called Bangga (Bengal). According to this description, 
Camroop, besides a large province of Assam (which still retains the name), in- 



7 50 ASSAM. [koohvebsha. 

eluded the whole of the modern divisions of Rungpoor and Rangamatty, a 
portion of the Mymunsingh district and Silhet, together with Munipoor, Gentiah, 
and Cachar. 

The early history of this region is involved in obscurity, but it has the reputa- 
% tion of having been in early times a sort of Paphian land, the seat of promiscuous 
pleasures, which the loose manners of its modern inhabitants, as may be seen 
under the article Rungpoor, tend strongly to justify. Besides a mysterious awe 
hangs over it, as having been the grand source of the Tantra system of magic, 
the doctrines of which permit many indulgences to new converts, and enable the 
Brahmins to share sensual gratifications from which they would otherwise be 
excluded. The Tantras chiefly inculcate the worship of irascible femalei spirits, 
whose hostility is to be appeased by bloody sacrifices, to be eaten afterwards; in 
consequence of which the Tantras are held in great estimation by the Brahmins 
of Bengal. Jadoo, or witchcraft, is supposed to be still generally understood by 
the old women, who are employed by the young to secure the affection of their 
paramours. 

This ancient province was invaded by Mahommed Bukhtyar Khilijee in A. D. 
1204, immediately after the conquest of Bengal by the Mahommedans; but he 
was compelled to retreat after losing nearly the whole of his army. From the 
prodigious ruins of public works still extant, and the magnificent public roads 
that had been constructed, it is probable that this remote corner of India in 
ancient times enjoyed a superior form of government to any that it has since 
experienced. Between the date last mentioned and the reign of Acber, the 
Mahommedans of Bengal made many efforts to accomplish the subjugation of 
Camroop, but were invariably frustrated. The mode of defence adopted by the 
princes of the country when attacked, was to retire with their families and 
effects into the jungles, until the violence of the rains, the inundation of the 
country, and the pestilential effects of an unhealthy climate, compelled the 
invaders to capitulate, or to attempt a destructive retreat. At length about 
1603, towards the conclusion of the reign of Acber, the Moguls took permanent 
possession of the western portion of Camroop, which they partioned into four 
divisions, viz. Ootrecul, Dukhincul, Bengal Bhumi, and Camroop Proper.— 
(F, Buchanan , Wade , Steward, <$c.) 

Kanpar. — A frontier town in the province of Assam, situated on the north 
bank of the Brahmaputra, opposite toGoalpara. Lat. 26° 10' N. long. 90®4O'E. 
At this place there is a custom-house where duties are collected on goods entering 
Assam. 

Nogiiurbera. — A frontier town and custom-house in Assam, situated on the 
south bank of the Brahmaputra, 26 miles E. from Goalpars. Lat. 26® 4' N. 
long. 91° 3' E. 



ASSAM. 751 

Gohati. — This, was the capital of the ancient, Hindoo geographical division 
aas»d Oamroop, which included great part of Assam, but it is now in a very 
mmenble condition. Let. 26° 9' N. long. 91“ 48' E. 70 miles E. from Goalpara in 
Bengal. 

Rungpoor (Rangapura ).— This town, situated on the Dikho river, is fre- 
quently called the capital of Asuun, and it appears to have been once a place of 
consequence, but latterly it has been only the military station to Ghergong, 
from which it is distant about 30 miles north. The Rungpoor territorial division 
ia 12 miles in length by 10 in breadth, and in 1793 contained a considerable num- 
ber of villages and hamlets. To the west of Rungpoor is a bridge, built in the 
reign of Rudra Singh by workmen from Bengal, which may be deemed the 
western gate of the military fortress of Rungpoor, which is accessible from the 
westward only through this post, as the river here is seldom fordable. On the 
south it is protected by an immense causeway, or line of fortification, which 
extends from Namdaugh to the Dikho . — ( Wade, #c. §c.) 

Ghergong ( Ghirigrama ). — This place stands on the Dikho, which falls into 
the Brahmaputra on the south side, and was for many years the capital of As- 
sam ; but since the insurrection of the Mahamari priest and his rabble, the city, 
palaces, and' fort, have continued a heap of ruins. In maps this place is also 
named Gergong, Gurgown, and Kirganu.— (Wade, Rennell, fyc.) 

Jouhaut. — This place stands on both sides of the Dikho river, which, ac- 
cording to Lieutenant Wood, of the Bengal Engineers, joins the Brahmaputra 
in lat. 26° 48' N. long. 94° & E. Jorhaut is the present capital of the province, 
as, since disturbances which broke out during the reign of Raja Gaurinauth, the 
royal residence has been removed to this place, about 20 miles west from Rung- 
poor, but no brick buildings have as yet been erected. 

Majuli.— A large island m Assam, formed by the Brahmaputra, which is said 
at Tikhli Potarmukh (about 95“ E.) to separate into two branches, which after- 
wards re-unite. According to native reports, it may be estimated at 130 miles 
in length, by from 10 to 15 in breadth. This insulated district is intersected by 
channels of communication between the two branches, which in reality senwart 
it into a duster of distinct islands. It is said that the land of Majuli island has 
been in a great measure alienated by the government, to temples, and to wen 
considered holy.— f F. Buchanan, Wade, 



STATES ADJACENT TO ASSAM. 


BIJNEE (bijni). 

The possessions of the Bijnee Raja are situated on both sides of the Brahma' 
putra, and consist partly of independent territory, and partly of lands within 
the limits of the British jurisdiction. The Ayi river, which appears t^ be the 
Barally of the Bengal Atlas, is asserted by the Bijnee chief to be the\ line of 
separation between that part of his estate subject to the British government and 
the portion which is subordinate to Bootan. His territories to the west of the 
Ayi river comprise two divisions, viz. Bijnee or Khuntaghaut, which is situated 
to the north of the Brahmaputra, and Howeraghaut, which lies to the south of 
that river, and borders on the Garrows. To the east Bijnee adjoins the province 
of Camroop in Assam. The common language is that of Bengal. 

Bijnee or Khuntaghaut, is a very extensive, beautiful, and were it cultivated 
would be a very valuable estate. Much of the level country is inundated, but 
there is also a great extent of land fit for the cultivation of transplanted rice. 
A considerable number of the villages are consequently permanent, and have 
plantations of betel nut and sugar cane ; but of the inhabitants many are migra- 
tory, and on the least dispute retire to the conterminous countries of Bootan 
and Assam. On the whole, however, more settlers arrive from these countries 
than go them, so that the population of Bijnee is augmenting. Howeraghaut, 
the other division to the south of the Brahmaputra, is a still more valuable 
estate. Very little of it is Hooded, and it contains a great deal, of low marsh 
land finely watered, and fit for the cultivation of transplanted rice, while there 
is also a large extent of excellent soil suited for the production of summer rice, 
wheat, barley, mustard, pulse, betel, sugar cane, and mulberry trees. It does not 
appear, however, that any silk worms are reared, and the number of betel gardens 
is inconsiderable. The villages are stationary, and much neater than is usual in 
Bengal. Each house is surrounded by some small fields neatly enclosed with 
dry reeds and quickset hedges, producing tobacco and. sugar cane, with alter- 
nate crops of rice and mustard seed. Near the hills, where the streams are 
copious and perennial, some of the land gives annually two crops of true- 



bijweeO to ASSAM. 753 # 

planted rice. Since the Assam government declined to its present anarchical 
condition, many natives of that country have withdrawn to Howeraghaut, and 
many more, although they till lands in Assam, have brought their families to the 
British side of the river, where they rent as much ground as suffices for a house 
and garden. In this asylum the women and children are deposited, while the 
men risk themselves and cattle in the Assam dominions, ready for a retreat in 
case of annoyance. . 

In consequence of their remote situation, and the general wildness of the 
country, the history of the Estates in this quarter was long but imperfectly 
known, even to the public functionaries at Rungpoor, and so long as the Bijnee 
Raja paid the customary tribute, no inquiry was made as to the state of the 
country, or even to ascertain the original nature of his connection with the 
Mogul Emperor, to whose authority the British government had succeeded. 
The notion so long prevalent, that the fort of Bijnee with a considerable tract of 
the circumjacent country lies beyond the Bengal boundary, is quite erroneous, 
and the Bijnee Raja has an evident interest in curtailing the extent of the British 
influence. In the early surveys, Bijnee and Bidyagong, although entirely distinct, 
were confounded together under the name of Bootan Bijnee, and the Bijnee 
Estates were carried as far as the frontiers of Cooch Bahar. In 1785, the 
collector of Rungpoor was instructed to settle with the Rajas of Bijneh and 
Bidyagong for a certain tribute in money, instead of the customary present of 
elephants, on which a loss was annually sustained, and in consequence a com* 
mutation for 2000 rupees was arranged. In 1790, a succeeding and over zealous 
collector prevailed on the Raja to augment his tribute to 3000 rupees, but the 
increase was rejected by the Bengal government, which ordered the additional 
1000 rupees to be restored to the Raja, who was entitled, if he chose, to resume 
the payment in elephants. 

The peculiar circumstances of Bijnee appear to have been first brought to the 
notice of government about A. D. 1791, in which year, Mr. Douglas, the com- 
missioner in Cooch Bahar, reported that Hurindra Narrain, the zemindar of 
Bijnee, had been assassinated, and that he had directed the Naib of Rangaraatty, 
in conjunction with the late zemindar s dewan, to take temporary charge of the 
property. Before an answer could arrive, the commissioner was informed by 
the Deb Raja of Bootan, that he had appointed Mahindra Narrain (related to 
the defunct) to the vacant throne, the friendship subsisting between him (the 
Deb Raja) and the Honourable East India Company, rendering his appointment 
quite the same as if it had been made in Calcutta. He was soon apprized, 
however, that so precipitate and informal a proceeding could on no account he 
sanctioned, but in the mean time, Mahindra Narrain having got a party of Boo* 
voz. II. 5 D 



754 STATES ADJACENT {Wee. 

tanners from one of the Deb Raja's governors, entered Bijnee and there com* 
mitted a great variety of outrages. At this time, the only connexion that 
subsisted between Bootan and Bijnee, consisted of a sort of exchange of the 
productions of the two countries, which the Bootan functionaries were pleased 
to describe as the payment of a tribute, the advantage being considerably in 
their favour, as will appear by the following list. 

Articles annually presented by the Deb Raja to the zemindar of Bijnee — eight 
Tanyan horses valued at 820 rupees; Bootan salt valued at 40 rupees: totn 
860 rupees. 

Articles presented annually by the Bijnee zemindar to the Bootan Raia — Man* 
kee cloth to the value of 480 rupees ; Chicky ditto, 100 ; cotton 30 maijnds, 100; 
thread, 180; dried fish, 520; oil, 200; cash, 00; a silver ewer, 50 \ a silver 
betel box, 50 ; and a silver plate, 50 rupees : total 1 890 rupees. \ 

The result of the investigation was, that the Bengal government determined 
that the right of investiture to the zemindary belonged to them, and that the 
interference of the Bootanners was altogether unwarranted ; but as the candi- 
date brought forward by the Deb Raja appeared to have the best founded pre- 
tensions, his choice was confirmed, and his proteg£ nominated to the succession. 

The Bijnee Raja continues to hold lands of Bootan, where he possesses much 
more authority than in the two pergunnahs before mentioned, within the limits 
of Bengal. Although he has not been entrusted with the power of life and 
death, there being an appeal to the Deb Raja, yet the Bijnee chief has the whole 
charge of the police, and decides in all ordinary cases. He may seize any per- 
son accused of a crime, take the evidence, and report the case to the Subah of 
Cherang, who it is alleged is always guided by his opinion, when the accused 
is not able to pay for a reversal of the judgement. Bijnee, where the Raja 
resides, and from whence he derives his title, is said to be a kind of neutral 
ground, so that although he has a guard of Bootanners, and also some sepoys, 
whom he probably represents as belonging to the English, the officers of neither 
government interfere at Bijnee, where he is 6aid to harbour many suspicious 
characters, and even to participate in their plunder. 

As matters now stand, the residence of the Raja beyond the controul of the 
British government is a very serious inconvenience, and there is strong reasor 
to suspect that his servants often avail themselves of the advantage the distinc- 
tion gives them, by taking any person obnoxious to the Bijnee interest across 
the river Ayi, where they can with little restraint inflict death or torture. Under 
these circumstances it is very desirable that the Raja be compelled to hold a 
distinct court for the distribution of justice, within that portion of his estate 
subordinate to Bengal, and that he be prohibited from carrying the peasantry of 



doPrlas.] TO ASSAM. 755 

that tract, on any pretext whatever, beyond the British boundaries, a regular 
survey of which would greatly tend to obviate all future disputes. After this 
improvement, the Raja ought to be informed that the government would never 
increase the existing demands against his estate, but that on the other hand he 
was clearly to understand that he possessed no civil or criminal jurisdiction over 
that portion of his estate within the limits of Bengal. 

The Bijnee Raja formerly paid his tribute in elephants, but as few survived, 
and were seldom of a good size, a value was put on the number, and the amount 
taken in money. The Bootan tribute is principally paid in dried fish. One half 
of his rents is paid in coarse cotton doth woven by the women of the tenantry, 
on which the Raja suffers a considerable loss. His affairs, as may be supposed, 
are extremely ill managed, and his property plundered by needy retainers from 
the south and west, who harass the cultivators by unjust exactions, and ruin 
commerce by their Iniquitous monopolies. The rules for the abolition of the 
sayer duties, promulgated during the government of Lord Cornwallis, in conse- 
quence of its having been recorded as merely tributary, have never been ex- 
tended to this estate, and the Raja, as an independent prince carries on a con- 
siderable traffic with the Garrows. In 1809, the two divisions of Bijnee Proper 
and Howeraghaut were estimated to contain 32,400 ploughs, each of which ought 
on an average to have paid the Raja five rupees per annum, besides customs, 
duties, forests, fishings, pastures, and all manner of illicit and irregular exactions, 
yet his poverty was such that he was accustomed once in three years to raise 
some additional money by absolute begging, which, however, conveys no de- 
grading idea to a Hindoo. Raja Bolit Narrain reigned in 1809, and was 
reckoned the seventh from the founder of the family, which is one of the highest 
of the Cooch tribe. — (Sisson, F. Buchanan, Wade , Turner , §c. §c.) 

Bijnee. — The fort or castle of Bijnee is defended by a brick wall, and is 320 
cubits long by 160 wide, and of the form of a' parallelogram. Lat. 26°29 / N. 
long. 89° AT E. 25 miles N. by E. of Goalpara. On the outside of the wall is a 
ditch and strong hedge of the prickly bamboo, and in each face there is a gate. 
The area is divided into an outer and inner apartment, in which the females of 
the Raja dwell. There are also a few small temples of brick for the household 
gods, and about 100 thatched huts, some of which are supported by wooden posts 
and beams. — ( F. Buchanan , .) 

Dopheas. — This tribe occupy the hilly country to the north of Rungpoor* 
and far east to where the Brahmaputra is supposed to change the direction of iti 
course, and to run nearly north and south. In 1814, the Boora Gohaing, or 
Regent of Assam, in his correspondence with the Bengal presidency, attributed 

5 d 2 



736 STATES ADJACENT [thi oamow*. 

the desolation of a considerable portion of the province to the incursions of this 
tribe. 

Khamti.— This small district is situated nearly due south from Jorhaut, the 
modern capital of Assam, and is bounded on the south by Munipoor. It is de- 
scribed as a plain country, but much overgrown with jungle, and recently ren- 
dered subject to Assam. 

THE GARROWS. 

This tribe formerly occupied an extensive tract of country, between the 25th 
and 26th degrees of north latitude ; bounded on the north by the course of the 
Brahmaputra, on the south by the districts of Silhet andMymunsinghito the east 
by Assam and Gentiah, and on the west by the great Brahmaputra. Such were 
the ancient dimensions, which, besides the country still retained by the; indepen- 
dent G arrows, comprehended the territorial divisions in modern ma^s named 
Iloweraghaut, Measpara (or Mechpara), Caloomaloopara, Currybarry, Gonasser, 
Susung, and Sheerpoor in Mymunsingh. At present, the tract occupied by the 
Independent Garrows cannot be estimated at more than 130 miles in length by 
30 in breadth, and nowhere touches the Brahmaputra. Seen from the confines, 
tb : \<>!e appears to be a confused assemblage of hills, from 100 to 3000 feet 
high, watered by numerous small streams, and containing scarcely any level 
land, the hills being everywhere immediately contiguous to each other. Towards 
the centre, it is said (for it has never been penetrated by Europeans), there are 
immense masses of naked rock, and large spaces destitute of vegetation; but 
in general, the hills, although steep, consist of a deep rich soil, suitable for the 
hoe cultivation. The climate being very humid, such a soil produces a most 
luxuriant vegetation, and, where undisturbed by agriculture, the mountains are 
covered with noble forests, containing an infinite variety of curious and orna- 
mental plants. 

Besides the space above mentioned, the Garrows seem formerly to have oc- 
cupied much of the adjacent low country, and still retain some part as the 
subjects of neighbouring powers, most of the Rajas tributary to Assam on the 
south side of the Brahmaputra being of the Garrow tribe. On the British 
frontier, the several large estates, adjoining the Brahmaphtra to the cast, have 
never under any government undergone a regular survey, nor have their internal 
resources until very recently been the subject of official scrutiny. During the 
Mogul government, some of them were made liable to a provision of elephants 
some to certain assignments towards defraying the expenses of the Dacca ar- 
tillery park, and others to the maintenance of a few petty garrisons, but the 



THE 0 ARROWS.] TO ASSAM. 757 

internal administration was left almost entirely to the hereditary chiefs found in 
possession of the principalities, who were treated rather as tributaries than sub- 
jects. This arrangement probably originated partly from the wild and uncul- 
tivated state of the country, which did not admit of a regular assessment, and 
partly from an adherence to a favourite maxim of Mogul policy, that of concili- 
ating the good will of chiefs possessing local influence on their distant frontiers. 

Whatever share of independence the Garrows may have retained during the 
reigti of the Moguls, whose cavalry could not penetrate these impervious forests, 
they soon lost when the adjacent zemindars of Bengal could call to their assist- 
ance the terrors of British musquetry, against which the bows, swords, and 
spears of the Garrows could oppose but a feeble resistance. In 1775, the 
Chowdries of Measpara and Currybarry, under pretence of incursions made by 
the Garrows, collected a considerable body of armed men, and invaded the hills, 
where they are said to have continued two or three years, during which period 
vast numbers of their followers fell victims to the unhealthiness of the climate. 
They eventually, however, succeeded in subduing several tribes, and it is re- 
ported, that on this occasion, the hill chief Rungta first became subject to the 
authority of Currybarry. In 1794, Currybarry, Caloomaloopara, and Measpara, 
were considered by the commissioner in Cooch Bahar to be three istimrary 
mahals, the revenue payments of which to the Mogul government were fixed at 
a low rate, on condition of their opposing the Garrow mountaineers, for it ap- 
pears these people were then in the habit of making annual plundering incursions, 
similar to those committed in the south-west frontier by the Maharattas. The 
Chowdries of these estates had military rank conferred on them, and paid 
revenue for duties levied, but not for land ; neither did the tenants pay any rent, 
except for a few tracts within the inundation of the Brahmaputra, holding their 
lands by military tenure. These feudal arrangements enabled the chiefs to 
organize such a force, that in 1789, Ram Ram, the Chowdry of Measpara, 
attacked and defeated Mr. Baillie, of Goalpara. In process of time, when their 
connexion with the Mogul empire became more matured, they began to pay a 
trifling revenue in cotton, the staple article of the Garrow hills; every load 
brought to market by these mountaineers being accompanied by a small bundle 
named the bucha, or young load, for the zemindar's share. The main load was 
carried on the back in a long basket slung round the forehead, while the young 
load was carried in one hand, and the cumburee or long sword in the other. 

In 1798, the repeated acts of contumacy on the part of the Currybarry ze- 
mindar, induced government to detach a party against him, under the command 
of Captain Darrah, who captured the fortified residence of the Currybarry chow- 
dry, in consequence of which, he immediately paid up his arrears. This was 



STATES ADJACENT 


758 


[the g arrows* 


the first time that a British regular force had been sent into Currybarry. The 
affairs of the zemindar falling subsequently into disorder, the estate was brought 
to sale, and the purchaser ruined by his acquisition, not being able to resell an 
estate the extent of which was undefined, and the possessor subjected to con- 
tinual alarms of conflagration and massacre, from the struggles of the western 
Garrows to shake off a yoke which they had long borne with impatience. 
Rungta, one of their principal chiefs, died many years ago, and was succeeded 
by his son Agund, who still exists, and is said to possess great wealth in slaves, 
brass pots, and human sculls. This chief attended the marriage of the zemindar 
of Currybarry ’s son, when a palanquin was presented to him, which, having first 
deprived it of the poles as useless, he entered, and was borne aws^y over the 
hills on the heads of his slaves. His family establishment is said to^be so nu- 
merous as to require five dhenkies (machines to clean rice) to be Constantly 
kept at work. Agund’s influence prevails over that portion of thfe Garrow 
mountains which lie contiguous to Currybarry and Mymunsingh, and Under him 
are Gheerees and Bhoomeas (local chiefs), who exercise authority over the par- 
ticular villages in which they reside. 

The Garrows have no other means of disposing of their cotton, the staple 
produce of the country, than by carrying it to the Bengal markets, which they 
continue to do notwithstanding the constant succession of fraud, falsehood, and 
extortion, which they there experience. The trade with Rungpoor is entirely 
carried on at the frontier marts, to which in ordinary times the Garrows repair 
once a week during the dry season, more especially in the months of December, 
January, and February. When the Garrow arrives at the market the zemindar 
commences by taking part of the cotton as his share, the remainder is exchanged 
for salt, cattle, hogs, goats, dogs, cats, fowls, ducks, fish dry and fresh, tortoises, 
rice, and extract of sugar cane, for eating ; tobacco, and betel nut, for chewing; 
some hoes, spinning wheels, brass ware, Monohari ornaments, and also some 
silk, erendi, and cotton cloths. In 1809, there were 47,000 maunds of cotton 
brought into the Rungpoor district by the Garrows, but of this 10,000 maunds 
came from Currybarry, and 700 from the Garrows of Assam. It is uncertain 
what quantity goes to the southern markets, but were the Garrows sure of a 
reasonable recompense, the quantity might be greatly augmented. By a rea- 
sonable exchange is meant their receiving a maund of good salt for two maunds 
of cotton, whereas what they now receive is adulterated with a mixture of 
earth and addition of moisture. The value of the cotton, however, fitr exceeds 
the amount of all the other goods, and a large balance is paid in rupees, which 
is the only coin the Garrows will accept. The best eagle wood is found among 
the Garrows, but at present little is procured. 



TO ASSAM. 


THE GAEEOVS.] 


759 


The presence ot an armed establishment is indispensable, to keep the peace 
while the traffic is going on, and to give confidence to the sly but timid Benga- 
lese chapman. £t was formerly the custom to keep a large body of matchlock- 
men with matches ready lighted, who paraded round the market during the sale, 
and discharged a matchlock at short intervals to remind the savages that they 
were on the alert. Without this coercion, the Garrows, on the least dispute be- 
tween one of their party and a merchant, would rise in arms and massacre all 
within their reach. Notwithstanding these precautions, the Garrows continued 
to perpetrate such atrocities, that in 1815, all commercial intercourse with 
them was interdicted, and parties of police peons stationed at the different 
marts in the vicinity of the Garrow mountains to enforce the prohibition. 

With respect to the term Garrow, that people assert that it is a Bengalese 
denomination, nor does it appear that either nation have any general name for 
the congeries of elevations which we call the Garrow Mountains, nor for their 
inhabitants collectively, each tribe or clan having a name peculiar to itself. The 
rorthern Garrows are a short strong limbed active people, with strongly marked 
Chinese countenances, and in general harsh features, but some of their chiefs 
are rather handsome, and in manners and vivacity, are said greatly to excel the 
adjacent Bengalese zemindars. A Garrow woman can carry over the hills as 
great a load as a Bengalese man can carry on the plains, and a Garrow man one- 
third more. For their own eating the Garrows rear cattle, goats, swine, dogs, 
cats, fowls, and ducks, and purchase from the inhabitants of the low countries 
all these animals, besides tortoises and fish fresh and dried. Among the hills 
they procure deer, wild hogs, frogs, and snakes, ail of which they eat, rejecting 
no food but milk, which they utterly abhor and abominate in any shape what- 
ever, calling it by way of execration diseased matter. They are very partial 
to puppies, and the mode of cooking them is worthy of notice, as furnishing an 
example of their diabolical cruelty. They first incite the dog to eat as much 
rice as he can swallow, after which they tie his four legs together, and throw him 
alive on the fire. When they consider the body sufficiently roasted, they take 
it out, rip up the belly, and divide the rice in equal shares among the party 
assembled. The whole of this process has been repeatedly witnessed by the 
Bengalese traders at the cotton marts. 

One more instance of their culinary preparations will probably suffice. When 
a quarrel arises between two Garrows, the weaker party flies to a distant hill to 
elude the vengeance of his antagonist; but both parties immediately plant a 
tree bearing a sour fruit called chatakor, and make a solemn vow that they will 
avail themselves of the earliest opportunity that presents itself of eating their 
adversaries head with the juice of its fruit. A generation frequently passes 



STATES ADJACENT 


760 


[the garrows. 


away without either party being able to execute the measure in contemplation, 
in which case the feud descends as an heir loom to the children. The party 
that eventually succeeds, having cut off the head of his slain adversary, sum- 
mons all his friends, and boils the head along with the fruit of the tree, eats of 
the soup himself, and distributes the rest among his friends; the tree is then cut 
down, the feud being ended. 

A process somewhat different is followed when they succeed in massacring 
any Bengalese landholder. On these occasions great numbers of neighbours and 
relations are collected round the reeking heads brought back as trophies, which 
being filled with liquor and food, the Garrows dance round them singing songs 
of triumph. After thus rejoicing, the heads are buried for the purpose of rot- 
ting off the flesh, and when arrived at a proper stage of putrefaction are dug 
up, cleansed of their filth, sung and danced round as before, and then suspended 
in the houses of the perpetrators of the massacre. It is a mistaken notion that 
it is a mere abstract fondness for human sculls that instigates the moi^ntaineers 
to these atrocities ; were that the motive, the sculls of persons dying a natural 
death would likewise be in demand, which is not the case. It may consequently 
be admitted, that it is the mode of acquisition by battle, surprize, or ambus- 
cade, that stamps in the opinion of the Garrows the value of a Bengalese scull, 
which is besides esteemed in proportion to the rank of its former possessor. In 
1815, the scull of a Hindoo factor, who during his life time had purchased the 
zemindary of Caloomaloopara, was valued at 1000 rupees; and that of Indra 
Talookdar, agent to the Curry barry zemindar, at 500 rupees, while the price of 
a common peasant’s was only 10 or 12 rupees of deficient weight. To this cus- 
tom of hoarding sculls, and of making them the circulating medium in large 
payments, is to be attributed the extreme care with which the Garrows burn to 
powder the entire bodies of their own people, lest by any accident the cranium 
of a Garrow should be passed off as that of a Bengalese. 

Their domestic feuds would be immortal, if there were not in most tribes a 
council of chiefs and head men, who endeavour to reconcile all those of the clan 
who .have disputes, for it is said, they have no right to inflict any punishment 
unless a man be detected in uttering a falsehood before them, in which case he 
would instantly be put to death. The havoc such a regulation would occasion, 
were it extended to their Bengalese neighbours, will be duly appreciated by the 
European functionaries who administer justice in that land of mendacity. Among 
the Garrows, dishonesty and stealing are not frequent, but murder is a crime of 
ordinary occurrence, a Garrow man never being seen without his sword. With 
this he cuts his way through forests and carves his meat, and sc fond are they 
of the weappn. or aware of its utility for defence, that they never part with it, 



THE 04&HOWS.] TO ASSAM. 761 

even when loaded with the heaviest burthens. Their habits of intoxication also 
occasion frequent crimes. Poor persons get drunk once a month; the chiefs 
Once every two or three days, on which occurrences they squabble, fight, and 
assassinate. 

With respect to religion, the unconverted Garrpws of the hills believe in the 
transmigration of souls as a state of reward and punishment. Saljung is their 
supreme god, and has a wife named Manim, but they have no images or tem- 
ples. In front of each house a dry bamboo with its branches adhering is fixed 
in the ground, before which, after having adorned it with tufts of cotton thread 
and flowers, they make their offerings. In science they have not advanced so 
(hr as to write their own language ; but a few have learned to write the Benga- 
lese ; and although so much cotton is produced in their country, it is only re- 
cently they have begun to practise the art of weaving it. 

The particulars above detailed have reference principally to the northern Gar- 
rows, between whom and the southern there appears to be no essential differ- 
ence, except that the latter seem to have undergone a partial conversion to the 
Brahminical doctrines. The southern Garrows are stout, well shaped men, 
hardy, and able to do much work. They have a surly look, a flat Caffry nose, 
small eyes, wrinkled forehead, and overhanging eyebrows, with a large mouth, 
thick lips, and round face. Their colour is of a light, or deep brown. The 
women are extremely ugly, short and squat in their stature, with masculine fea- 
tures and almost masculine btrength. In their ears are fixed a number of brass 
rings, sometimes as many as thirty, increasing in diameter from three to six 
inches. The females work at all laborious occupations. Their food is the same 
as that of the northern, but their houses appear of a superior description. These 
are named chaungs, and are raised on piles three or four feet from the ground, 
being in length from 30 to 150 feet, by from 10 to 40 in breadth. The props of 
the house consist of large saul timbers, over which other large timbers are 
placed horizontally, and the roofs are finished with bamboos, mats, and strong 
grass. The latter are uncommonly well executed, especially in the houses of the 
Bhoomeas, or chief men. The house consists of two apartments — one floored 
and raised on piles ; the other, for their cattle, without a floor at one end. The 
chiefs wear silk turbans, but their apparel is generally covered with bugs. 

These Garrows are said to be of a mild temper and gay disposition, and very 
fond of dances. In regulating these, twenty or thirty men stand behind one 
another, holding by the sides of their belts, and then go round in a circle, hop- 
piftg on one foot, after which they hop on the other. The women dance in rows 
and hop in the like manner. During their festivals they eat and drink to such 
excess, that they require a day or two to get properly sober. Marriage is gene- 
von. ii. 5 x 



762 STATES ADJACENT [ccbeybarry. 

rally settled by the parties themselves, but sometimes by their parents. If the 
parents do not readily accede to the wishes of their child, they are well beaten 
by the friends of the other party, and even by persons unconnected with either, 
until they acquiesce in the match. Among this people the youngest daughter 
is always the heiress ; and the females generally, although they are obliged to 
work hard, have great privileges, and in their debates have as much to say as 
the men. If her husband die the wife marries one of his brothers, and if they all 
die she marries their father. The dead are kept four days and then burned. If 
the deceased be a highland chief of common rank, the head of one of his slaves 
should be burned with him ; but if he be a chief of .great dignity, a large body 
of his slaves sally out from the hills and seize a Hindoo, whose head they cut 
off and burn along with the body or their chieftain. The customs of the Hajin 
tribe, who reside at the foot of the Garrow hills, partake more of thef Hindoo, as 
they will not kill a cow, but they worship the tiger. \ 

Such are the people whom a strange concurrence of circumstances have 
brought in contact with the British nation, and where the two extremes of civi- 
lization in this manner meet, the weakest must eventually succumb. As yet, 
however, they are an independent people, even the British, as successors to the 
Moguls, having no claim on their lands, far less any zemindar under that govern- 
ment. The country from which they have been driven by the Bengalese of 
Caloomaloopara and Mechpara continues waste, and will probably remain so, 
until the grievances of the Garrows are redressed, and their incursions re- 
strained. In 1815, Mr. Sisson recommended that an intelligent native of rank, 
with one or more deputies, should be appointed to the superintendance of the 
whole range of Garrow hills, and to give efficiency to his office that a small corps, 
consisting exclusively of Nuches, Cooches, Hajins, and Rajbungsies, and other 
aboriginal tribes, should be placed under him. — (Sisson, F. Buchanan , Elliot, 
6;c. Ssc.) 

Curry barry (Carivati).— This large and jungly zemindary is composed of 
lands situated on the east side of the Brahmaputra, originally dismembered from 
the Garrow territories, and it is still almost surrounded by the hills and jungles 
inhabited by that people, into the defiles of which no regular troops can penetrate. 
Including the estate of Mechpara, this tract of country stretches from north to 
south over a tract nearly 67 miles in length, by about 23 in breadth. Within 
the last ten years it has been greatly infested by the incursions of the Garrows, 
whose aggressions there is strong reason to believe were first occasioned by the 
frauds and exactions practised on them by the zemindar ; the rules for the re- 
sumption of the sayer, or variable imposts, not having been originally extended 
to this territory. In 18J3, an arrangement was effected for the abolition of these 



cachar.] TO ASSAM. 763 

duties, in order to prevent a repetition of the extortions practised on the Gar- 
rows. According to the accounts produced for the adjustment of this claim, 
the zemindar’s net receipts on account of Sayer amounted to 3627 rupees per 
annum, while the whole land rent paid to government for the pergunnah, 
amounted to only 3062 rupees ; consequently, after relinquishing the whole of 
the revenue accruing to government, a balance of 565 rupees remained annually 
payable to the proprietor out of the public treasury. In 1812, the Bengal go- 
vernment endeavoured to purchase this estate from the proprietor, but although 
nearly in a state of nature he asked the enormous sum of 120,000 rupees. In a 
tract of such dimensions qpd so remotely situated, the difficulty and expense of 
supporting a police establishment are so great, that were it not opposed by poli- 
tical considerations it would be better to relinquish the sovereignty . — ( Public 
MS. Documents , 8$c. 8$c.) 

Gentiah (Jaintiya ). — According to native authorities this petty state occu- 
pies the country bordering on Assam on the north ; the Bengal district of Silhet 
on the south ; and extending as far west as Cajoli, which is about 70 British 
miles east from Goalpara, or about 91° 50' E. from Greenwich; but the geogra- 
phy of this portion of Asia is as yet but very imperfectly ascertained. The 
Raja is a Garrow, who has been in some degree converted to the doctrines of the 
Brahmins. Near to the town of Gentiah, where the Raja resides, which in the 
maps is placed 21 miles N. N. E. from Silhet, an action was fought in 1774 by 
a detachment of the Company’s troops and the forces of a native chief. — ( F. 
Buchanan , <§*c. 8$c.) 

Cachar. — West from Khamti, and bounded by Assam on the north, is the 
territory of the Cachar Raja, which is said to be of considerable extent and very 
mountainous. To the west it borders on the Bengal district of Silhet, with 
which its chief and his subjects have frequent intercourse. A communication 
exists by water through Assam to the centre of both Cachar and Gentiah, 
although usually deemed inaccessible even by land. Formerly the commerce 
between Bengal and Cachar was carried on by land from Silhet ; the Assamese 
being so jealous of their Bengal (neighbours, that no access whatever was allowed 
through the Brahmaputra. The Cacharies are a numerous tribe, who are scat- 
tered over this portion of Asia, although the name is usually limited to the petty 
state of Cachar, which, although naturally fertile, is much overgrown with 
jungle, and but thinly peopled. The inhabitants have been partially converted 
by the Brahmins, and the Raja claims to be a Khetri of the Suryabansi (children 
of the sun) race, yet he occasionally sends gayals to be sacrificed on certain 
hills in his country, which is not strictly consistent with the Brahminical tenets. 
In 1774,‘Oundaboo, the general of Shemtman, the reigning Birman monarch, 

5 e 2 



764 STATES ADJACENT [cachab. 

unincumbered with baggage or artillery, marched against Chawal, the Raja of 
Cachar. In his advance he overcame the prince of a country called Muggaloo, 
and advanced within three days’ march of Cospoor, the chief town of Cachar. 
Here he was opposed by Chawal, leagued with the Gossain Raja, and his troops 
being attacked by the hill fever (a disease fatally known to the British army), 
his detachment was dispersed, cut off in detail by the natives, or perished by 
disease. A second expedition from Ava, under another general, named Kameouza, 
was more successful, as he arrived at Inchamutty, within two days’ march of 
Cospoor, which so intimidated the Raja, that, besides the payment of a sum of 
money, he engaged to send a maiden of the royal blood to his Birman majesty, 
and also a tree with the roots bound in its native clay, as an unequivocal mark of 
subjugation. Whether or not the Cacharies have since been able to throw off 
the Birman yoke is unknown ; but certainly in the correspondence which has 
recently taken place, there is no allusion to any such state of vassalage as the 
above narrative implies. 

In June, 1809, a letter was received by the Governor-General from Raja Kishore 
Chund Narrain of Cachar, stating that he had commenced a journey with the 
view of performing various religious pilgrimages to the holy places within the 
British dominions, and requesting that a guard of 25 sepoys might be stationed 
in his country during his absence, to prevent disturbance and protect it from 
invasion, which salutary objects he asserted would be attained by their mere 
appearance. His application, however, was not complied with; in conse- 
quence of which, in 1811, a second letter was received, soliciting most earnestly 
to be taken under the protection of the British government, on the condition of 
his paying whatever expense might be incurred on account of the troops em- 
ployed for the defence of his country, and submitting other points for the con- 
sideration of the Bengal government. In reply to his application, the Raja was 
informed that, consistently with the principles which regulated the British 
government, his overture could not be accepted, but that he would experience 
every office of friendship due to a friendly neighbour. Under the influence of 
this dispotion, orders were issued to the magistrate of Silhet, directing him to 
manifest every practicable degree of attention to such requests as the Cachar 
Raja, in consequence of the contiguity of his territory, might eventually have 
occasion to make. In the mean time permission was granted him to purchase 
50 firelocks, and a guard of 25 sepoys to conduct him back to Cospoor hit 
capital. 

The Raja, in his petition above alluded to, stated, that during the administration 
of the Marquis Wellesley, a Mogul named Oka M&hommed attempted to seise 
his country ; but the* by the assistance of the British government, the Mogul’* 



munipoor.] TO ASSAM. 765 

schemes had been frustrated. He then proceeds to set forth that this interference 
had excited die jealousy of the chiefs adjacent to Cachar, who had eVer since 
evinced a spirit of hostility against hisprincipality ; but no mention whatever is 
made of the Birmans until 1817, when a report prevailed on the Silhet frontier 
that they had assembled an army in that remote quarter with the view of 
invading Bengal. On inquiry, however, it was discovered that the rumour had 
originated from a quarrel which had arisen between the Rajas of Munipoor and 
Cachar, the former having assembled his forces and taken possession of the latter’s 
territories. — (Public MS. Documents, Symes, &c.) 

Cospoor ( Caspura ). — This is the capital of the Cachar principality, and is 
situated within a short distance of the Silhet frontier. In 1763, Mr. Verelst, 
afterwards governor-general, undertook a journey eastward from Bengal, and 
advanced as far as this place, which has never since, to the disgrace of British 
enterprize, been visited, or the tract from hence towards China explored. 

Munipoor (or Cassay ). — This province is bounded on the north by Cachar; 
on the south by Arracan, and the rude tribes bordering on that country ; on the 
west it has the Bengal districts of Tiperah and Silhet; and on the east it is 
separated from the original Birman territories by the river Keenduem, which, 
taking a south-eastern course, unites its waters with these of the lnrwaddy, a short 
way above the town of Sembewghewm. At present this territory nowhere 
touches on Assam, but the kings of the latter country have had many alliances 
with the Munipoor Rajas and frequent intermarriages. For some years past, 
however, all intercourse has been prohibited ; trade in consequence ceased, and 
the roads are now choked up with jungle. The capital city is Munipoor, and 
by the inhabitants of Bengal the Cassayers are called Muggaloos, an appellation 
with which they themselves disclaim all acquaintance ; but by Europeans it has 
been turned into Meckley, and applied to the country. Katihe is the name given 
to this people by the Birmans, which has been taken for the name of the country, 
and corrupted into Cassay. By the Bengalese the country to the east of -Muni- 
poor is named Hairombo. The kaeu tree, which grows to a prodigious magni- 
tude, both in respect to height and circumierence, is a native of this country. 
It would be a valuable acquisition were it naturalized in Bengal, as its wood is 
hard, durable, and well adapted for many useful purposes. 

Although situated so far to the east, the Cassayers have a softness of coun- 
tenance tfaore resembling the natives of Hindostan than the Birmans, with whom 
they have very little affinity, either in manners or appearance. Many natives of 
Cassay, prisone rs in the wars, are now settled in the neighbourhood of the 
Ummerapoor, where their superior skill and. industry in different 



766 STATES ADJACENT [xunipoor. 

branches of handicraft work procure them a comfortable subsistence.. The gun* 
smiths of the Birman empire are all Cassayers, but their guns are very defective. 
They are also much better horsemen than the natives of Ava, and on that 
account are the only cavalry employed in the Birman armies, and very much 
resemble those met with in Assam. Like all Orientals they ride with short stir- 
rups and a loose rein ; their saddle is hard and high, and two large circular 
flaps of hard leather hang down on each side, which are painted or gilded accord- 
ing to the quality of the rider. The music of the Cassayers is remarkably plea- 
sant, and consonant to the English taste, in which the time varies suddenly from 
swift to slow. They are of the Brahminical persuasion, and in fact have a much 
greater resemblance to a regular Hindoo tribe than to the harsh and brutal fol- 
lowers of Buddha. Their priests are famous in Bengal for their knowledge of 
the black art, and their country may be considered as the extreme limft of the 
Brahminical Hindoo sect to the eastward, as from thence the prevalency of the 
Buddhist doctrines is universal. 

In the year 1754, when Alompra, the victorious Birman monarch, left the city 
of Ava to relieve Prome, he detached a body of troops across the Keenduem 
river, to chastise the Cassayers, who had hitherto enjoyed only a temporary 
independence. When the contests of the Birman and Pegue states left them 
no leisure to enforce obedience, they were always ready to revolt, and quickly 
reduced to submission. The Raja of Cassay, residing at Munipoor, sued for 
peace, which was concluded On advantageous terms for the Birmans ; and, as is 
the custom, a young man and a young woman of the Raja’s kindred were delivered 
as hostages. In 1757, Alompra again attacked the Cassayers and ravaged their 
possessions ; but was prevented from completing the conquest by the revolt of 
the Peguers. In 1765 Shembuan, the son of Alompra, invaded the Cassay 
country, and obtained considerable booty, but appears to have intended nothing 
beyond a predatory incursion. In 1774, he sent a formidable force against the 
Cassayers, which, after a long and obstinate battle, took Munipoor the capital, 
the Raja having withdrawn to the Corrun hills, five days’ journey north-west of 
that place. From the above period the Cassay country has remained subject to 
the Birmans. 

In 1814, Mr. Smith, a botonist from Bengal, pushed his botanical researches a 
considerable way into this remote country, where his progress was stopped by an 
invasion of the Birmans, who expelled the reigning Raja, and placed his younger 
brother on the throne, after having married him to one of the King of Ava’s 
daughters. — (Symes, F. Buchanan , Colebrooke , S$c+) 

MuNirooa ( Manipura . the town of jewels ).— The capital of the Cassay or 



hunipoor.] TO ASSAM. 7®7 

Munipoor province, situated in lat. 24° 20' N. long. 94° 30' E. The tract in 
which this town is situated is also occasionally named the Muggaloo or Meckley 
country, and is the nearest communication between the north-east comer of 
Bengal, and the N. W. quarter of the Birman dominions; but the whole route 
has never yet been traversed by any European. An intercourse also subsists 
between Munipoor and Assam, as in 1794, the British detachment sent to Ger- 
gong, the then capital of Assam, saw there a body of cavalry which had arrived 
from Munipoor. This town was captured by the Birmans in 1774, and has ever 
since, with the district attached, remained tributary to that people. — ( Wade, 
Symet, 8$c.) 



AVA ANI> THE BIRMAN EMPIRE. 


T is extensive region is situated in the south-eastern extremity of Asia, usually 
distinguished by the name of India beyond the Ganges, and betwixt the 9th and 
26th degrees of north latitude. The modem Ava empire comprehends many 
large provinces that formed no part of the original Birman dominions, but which 
will be found described under their respective heads. To the north it is bounded 
by Assam and Tibet ; to the south by the Indian Ocean and the Siamese terri- 
tories ; to the north-east it has China, and to the east the unexplored countries 
of Laos, Lactho, and Cambodia. On the west it is separated by the Bengal 
districts of Tiperah and Chittagong, by a ridge of mountains, and the river .Nauf. 

Where not confined by the sea, the frontiers of this empire are in a perpetual 
state of fluctuation, but it appears to include a space betwixt the 9th and 26th 
degrees of north latitude, and the 92d and 104th of east longitude ; about 1050 
geographical miles in length, and 600 in breadth. It is probable the boundaries 
extend still further to the north, but the breadth varies considerably. Taken in 
its most extensive sense, that is including countries subject to tbeir influence, 
the Birman dominions may oontain 194,000 square miles, forming altogether the 
most extensive native government, subject to one authority, at present existing 
in India. Ava Proper is , centrally situated, and surrounded by the conquered 
provinces, the principal of which are Arracan, Pegue, Martaban, Tenasserim, 
J unkse ylon, Mergui, Tavoy, Yunshan, Lowashau, and Cassay. From the river 
Nauf on the frontiers of Chittagong there are several good harbours; and from 
Tavoy to the southward of the Mergui Archipelago, are several others. The 
principal rivers are the Irawaddy, the Keenduem, the Lokiang, and the Pegu 
river. Between the Pegu and Martaban rivers there is a lake, from which two 
riven proceed; the one runs north to old Ava, where it joins the Myoungya, or 
Little Ava river, which comes from mountains on the frontiers of China, the 
other river runs south from the lake to the sea. 

Judging from the appearance and vigour of the natives, the climate must be 
very healthy. The seasons are regular, and the extremes of heat and cold 
seldom experienced ; the duration of the intense heat, which precedes the com* - 
mencement of the rains being so short, that it incommodes but very little* 



BIRMAN EMPIRE. 769 

Exclusive of the Delta formed by the mouths of the Irawaddy, there is very 
little low land in the Birman dominions. The teak does not grow in this Delta, 
but in the hilly and mountainous districts to the northward and eastward of 
Rangoon. Even at a short distance from Syriam, the country is dry and hilly. 
The soil of the southern provinces is remarkably fertile, and produces as abund- 
ant crops of rice as are to be found in the finest parts of Bengal. Further 
northward the country becomes irregular and mountainous ; but the plains and 
vallies, particularly near the river, are exceedingly fruitful. They yield good 
wheat, and the various kinds of small grain and legumes that grow in Hindostan. 
Sugar canes, tobacco of a Superior quality, indigo, cotton, and the different 
tropical fruits are all indigenous. In a district named Palongmiou, to the north- 
east of Ummerapoor, the tea leaf grows, but it is very inferior to the article 
produced in China, and is seldom used but as a pickle. Besides the teak tree, 
which grows in many parts of Ava, both to the north of Ummerapoor, and in 
the southern country, there is almost every description of timber that is known 
in India. Fir is produced in the mountainous part of the country, from which 
the natives extract the turpentine ; but they consider the wood of little value on 
account of its softness. If it were conveyed to Rangoon, it might prove a bene- 
ficial material for the navigation of India. The teak tree, although it will grow 
on the plains, is a native of the mountains. The forests in this part of Asia, like 
the woody and uncultivated parts of India are extremely pestiferous. The 
wood cutters are a particular class of men, born and bred in the hills, but even 
they are said to be very short lived. 

The kingdom of Ava abounds in minerals. Six days’ journey from Bamoo, 
near the frontiers of China, there are mines of gold and silver called Badouem: 
there are also mines of gold, silver, rubies, and sapphires, at present open on a 
mountain near the Keenduem, called Woobolootan; but the most valuable are 
in the vicinity of the capital, nearly opposite to Keoummevum. Precious stones 
are found in several other parts of the empire. The inferior minerals, such as 
iron, tin, lead, antimony, arsenic, sulphur, &c. are met with in great abundance. 
Amber, of a consistence unusually pellucid and pure, is dug up in large quantities 
near the river; gold is likewise discovered in the sandy beds of streams df»~ 
scending from the mountains. Between the Keenduem and the Irawaddy, to 
the northward, there is a small river, called the Shoe Lien Kioup, or the stream 
of golden sand. Diamonds ^and emeralds are not produced in the Ava empire; 
but it has amethysts, garnets, very beautiful chrysolites, jasper, and marble 
The quarries of the latter are only a few miles from Ummerapoor. In quality 
it is equal to the finest marble of Italy, and admits of a polish that renders it 
almost transparent* This article is monopolized by the government, it being 

vo*. n. 5 f 



770 AVA AND THE 

held sacred, because the images of Gaudma are chiefly composed of. this ma- 
terial, The Birman empire also contains the celebrated wells which yield the 
petroleum oil, an article of universal use throughout the provinces, and realizing 
a large revenue to the government, it being one of the numerous royal mo- 
nopolies. 

A considerable trade is carried on between Ummerapoor, the capital, and 
Yunan in China. The principal export from Ava is cotton, of which there is 
said to be two kinds ; one of a brown colour for nankeen, and the other white 
like the cotton of India : this commodity is transported up the Irawaddy in large, 
boats as far as Bamoo, where it is bartered at the common jee or m^rt with the 
Chinese merchants, and conveyed by the latter into the Chinese I dominions. 
Amber, ivory, and precious stones, betel nut, bird and the edible nests, brought 
from the eastern islands, are also articles of commerce ; in return the Birmans 
procure raw and wrought silks, velvets, gold leaf, preserves, paper,\and some 
utensils of hardware. The commerce between the northern and' southern 
quarters of the empire is greatly facilitated by the river Irawaddy, on which 
several thousand boats are annually employed in transporting rice from the 
lower provinces, to supply the capital and the northern districts, as also salt and 
gnapee (pickled sprats). Articles of foreign importation are mostly conveyed 
up the Irawaddy ; a few are introduced by the way of Arracan, and carried over 
the mountains on men’s heads. European broad cloth, a small quantity of hard- 
ware, coarse Bengal muslins, Cossimbazar silk handkerchiefs, chinaware, and 
glass, are the principal commodities. Coco nuts brought from the Nicobars are 
looked upon as a g ?at delicacy, an<f bear a high price. Merchants carry down, 
silver* lac, precious stones, and some other articles, but not to any great amount. 

In 1795, the quantity of teak and other timber imported to Madras and Cal- 
cutta from the Birman dominions, required a return amounting to the value of 
£200,000 sterling, as that timber cannot be conveyed from the Malabar to the 
Coromandel coast, unless at so great an expense as to preclude the attempt. The 
teak trade is a source of direct revenue to the royal family, as all the timber in 
the country belongs to the king, or to such of his sens as he has appointed to 
principalities, they consequently feel sensibly any stoppage or diminution of the 
exportation. In 1812, the price of Shinbin teak planks, which a few years be- 
fore was only 14 and 16 rupees per pair, had risen to 48 and 52 rupees, and at 
that extravagant rate could only be procured in small quantities. This rise was 
in some degree to be ascribed to the disturbed condition of the country, but 
principally to a monopoly granted by the king to a particular company. The 
imports to Ava from the British dominions consist chiefly of coarse piece goods, 
glass, hardware, and broad doth ; the returns are almost wholly in timber. 



BIRMAN EMPIRE. 


771 

small trade is carried on with Prince of Wales Island. The maritime ports of 
this empire are commodious for shipping, and better situated for Indian commerce 
than those of any other power. Great Britain possesses the western side of the 
Bay of Bengal, and the government of Ava (with the exception of Chittagong) 
the eastern. The harbour of Negrais is particularly commodious. Besides the 
export trade, about 3000 tons of shipping, in peaceable times, are usually built in 
Ava, and sent for sale to different quarters of India. In 3809, an extensive 
commerce was carried on between the Birman country and the French isles of 
Mauritius and Bourbon, the latter receiving from the former both merchandize 
and articles of necessity, the produce of the land ; but in 1810, in consequence 
of the strict blockade, # this intercourse had nearly ceased, while that with the 
British dominions continued the most lucrative branch of the Birman revenue. 

The Birmans, like the Chinese, have no coin, silver in bullion, and lead, being 
the current monies of the country. What foreigners call a tackal, properly 
kiat, is the most general piece of silver in circulation. It weighs 10 penny- 
weights, 10 grains, and three-fourths. The inferior currency is lead, and all 
common articles, such as fish, flesh, rice, greens, &c. are sold for so many weights 
of lead, which being a royal monopoly, is raised in the markets far above its 
intrinsic value. The average price of rice at the capital is about 2s. 8d. for 84 
pounds ; at Rangoon and Martaban about 250 pounds for 2s. 8d. It is neces- 
sary for every merchant to have a banker to manage his money transactions, who 
is responsible for the quality of the metal ; and by the Birman commercial regula- 
tions the exportation of females and silver is expressly prohibited. 

The Indian nations east of the Ganges have always been more cautious in 
their intercourse with foreign states than those of the west. The courts of Ava 
and Pekin resemble each other in many respects, but in none more than in their 
vanity and pride, which often manifests itself in a most ludicrous manner. Like 
the sovereign of China, his majesty of Ava acknowledges no equal. Boa, or 
emperor, is a title which the present sovereign of the Birmans has assumed ; the 
sovereign of China is termed Oudee Boa, or Emperor of Oudee or China. Al- 
though deficient in every thing that can render a state formidable, its sovereign 
and his functionaries are quite inflated with the idea of their own importance, 
and present the spectacle of a court at once feeble and arrogant. In 1810, one 
of the ministers informed the British envoy (Captain Canning), on hearing of the 
revolutionary war in Europe, that if application had been originally made in a 
proper manner, his Birman Majesty would have sent an army, and put the 
British nation in possession of the whole continent of France. Among other 
absurdities of the same period, a draught of a letter to the Governor General, 
composed by the Ava ministers, declared the king of England to be a vassal of 

5 r 2 



772 AVA AND THE 

the Birman monarch ; but this was too much even for the despotic Minderajee 
Praw, who ordered it to be expunged. 

The principal state officers are the following : four woongees, or chief ministers 
of state (woon signifies a burthen) ; four woondocks, or assistant ministers ; four 
attawoons, or ministers of the interior; four secretaries, or seredogees; four 
nachangees, to take notes and report ; four sandegans who regulate ceremonials ; 
and nine sandozains, whose business is to read petitions. In the Birman domi- 
nions there are no hereditary dignities or employments ; all honours and offices* 
on the demise of the possessors reverting to the crown. The tsalve or chain is 
the badge of nobility. They are from 3 to 12, which is the highest; the king 
alone wearing 24 ; and almost every article of use as well as of ornament indi- 
cates the rank of the owner. The most minute attention also is paid lo external 
forms, the smallest dereliction from them being noticed even by the, common 
people. \ 

Many of the higher classes of Birmans are of pleasing and affable manners, 
but crafty and extremely rapacious, for although they receive no pay from the 
king, they are obliged to present him with large offerings, in order to preserve 
their appointments ; to effect which, in addition to the usual sources of robbery 
and extortion, they are obliged to have recourse to speculations in trade and to 
almost universal monopoly. In 1812, the viceroy of Pegu monopolized the 
supply of coffins. As may be supposed from the nature of the government, 
great vicissitudes of fortune are experienced. In 1810, the viceroy of Pegu, 
who had been recently elevated by the king to an equality with himself, was 
deprived of all his dignities, and ordered up to court with a chain round his 
neck. That opium had been smoaked and spirits drank by the troops, and, 
that being too lenient, he had t,aken off few or no heads since his arrival at 
Rangoon, were the charges against him. A very short time before, this mild 
person, now accused of too much lenity, had ordered twelve men, women, and 
children, who had deserted from him to an obnoxious rival, to have their bellies 
ripped up ; the execution of which sentence was only prevented by the urgent 
entreaties of the British envoy. 

It is difficult to form any correct judgment regarding the population of the 
Birman dominions. When Colonel Symes visited them in 1795, they were said 
to contain 8000 cities, towns, and villages, without including Arracan. Few of 
the inhabitants dwell in solitary habitations ; they mostly form themselves into 
small societies, and their dwellings thus collected compose their runs or villages. 
Colonel Symes estimated the total number at 1 7,000,000 including Arracan* while 
Captain Cox who succeeded him as ambassador does not go beyond 8 , 000 * 0004 , 
but from subsequent information collected by Captain Canning, thqre is reason 



BIRMAN EMPIRE. 775 

to believe, that even this last number greatly exceeds the truth. In 1809, the 
country appeared half depopulated, and the banks of the great river uncul- 
tivated and nearly uninhabited, owing to the misery occasioned by the oppressive 
mode of recruiting the Birman armies. Sahwallee, Meady, Loonghee, and many 
Other formerly large and flourishing towns, were reduced to the condition of 
wretched villages, while the numerous villages that had lined both banks of the 
lrawaddy from Keonplalaum to the capital, had nearly all disappeared. Clusters 
of pagodas and palmira trees still remained to point out their former sites ; but 
the numerous fleets of boats, which before announced the vicinity of the capital, 
had dwindled down to a solitary fishing dinghy. Children of various ages were 
repeatedly brought to Captain Canning, whose fathers had been driven to the 
wars, and whom their mothers entreated him to accept, iri hopes of procuring 
for their wretched offspring that sustenance which they were unable to get for 
themselves. Many of the unfortunate villagers were dragged from their houses 
and publicly sold, if unable to pay the exorbitant requisitions of the govern- 
ment. To avoid famine and disease in a camp, or the still worse miseries of 
slavery, many had recourse to open rebellion, and rendered the river impassable 
for unarmed boats. According to the information collected by Captain Canning 
in 1810, the number of registered houses did not exceed 400,000, which would 
give a population of less than three millions; yet the Birman dominions possess 
many natural advantages, and under a tolerable government are capable of being 
carried to a high state of prosperity. 

One-tenth of all produce is exacted as the authorized due of the government, 
and one-tenth is the amount of the king’s duty on all foreign goods imported 
into his dominions. The revenue arising from customs on imports are mostly 
taken in kind : a small part is converted into cash ; the rest is distributed and 
received in lieu of salaries to the various departments of the court. Money, 
except on pressing occasions, is never disbursed from the royal coffers. To one 
man the fees of an office are allowed ; to another, a station where certain imposts 
are collected ; a third has land in proportion to the importance of his employ- 
ment. They are all called slaves of the king, and in their turn their vassals are 
denominated slaves to them. The condition of these grants includes services 
during war, as well as the civil duties of office. In 1812, with the view of im- 
proving the revenues, a general permission was granted to Birmans of all 
descriptions to drink spirits, use opium, and gamble ; practices which had before 
been punished with the utmost severity, even to death. Although it seems 
inmost impossible, under such a system, to ascertain in any standard currency 
the amount of the royal revenue, yet the riches of the Birman sovereign me said 
to be immense, which is rendered probable by the circumstance, that a very 



774 AVA AND THE 

small portion of what enters his exchequer ever again returns into circulation, 
the hoarding of money being a favourite maxim of oriental state policy. 

The Birmans may be described as a nation of soldiers, every man in the king* 
dom being liable to be called on for his military services. The king has no 
standing army except a few undisciplined native Christians and renegadoes from 
all countries and religions, who act as artillery ; a very small body of cavalry, 
and perhaps 2000 undisciplined, ill armed, naked infantry. The armies are com* 
posed of levies raised on the spur of the occasion by the princes, chobwahs, and 
great lords, holding their lands by military tenure. The utmost of all descrip- 
tions probably never exceeded 60,000 men. The infantry are armed with 
muskets and. sabres, the cavalry with a spear, all the l&tter are natives! of Cassay. 
The breed of horses in Ava is small, but very active ; and, contrary t^ the prac- 
tice of other eastern countries, they castrate their horses. But dhe most 
respectable part of the Birman military force is their war boats. Every town of 
note in the vicinity of the river is obliged to furnish a certain number of men, and 
one or more war boats, in proportion to the magnitude of the place. Formerly 
at a very short notice the king could collect 500 of these boats. They carry 
from 40 to 50 rowers, and there are usually 30 soldiers armed with muskets on 
board, together with a piece of ordnance on the prow. The rower is also pro- 
vided with a sword and lance, which are placed by his side whilst he plies the 
oar. The musket was first introduced into the Pegu and Ava countries by the 
Portugueze, and are of the worst quality. 

The principal provinces of the Birman empire have been already specified, but 
they now hang very loosely together. The names of the most remarkable towns 
are Ummerapoor, the capital; Ava, the ancient capital; Monchaboo, the birth- 
place of Alompra; Pegu, Rangoon, Syriam, Prome, Negrais, Persaim, and 
Chagaing. Almost all the towns, and even villages, of the Birman country are 
surrounded by a stockade, which kind of defence the Birmans ai e very dextrous 
at erecting. The general disposition of the inhabitants is strikingly contrasted 
with that of the natives of Bengal, from which they are only separated by a 
narrow range of mountains. The Birmans are a lively inquisitive race, active, 
irascible, and impatient. All the children of Europeans bom in the country are 
considered as the king s subjects, and prohibited from ever leaving it ; conse- 
quently, are doomed to a life of immorality and degradation. The females of 
Ava are not concealed from the sight of men ; but, on the contrary, are suffered 
to have free intercourse as in Europe: in other respects, however, there are 
many degrading distinctions, and the Birman treatment of (females generally 
is destitute both of delicacy and humanity. The practice of selling their women 
to strangers is not considered as shameful, nor is the female dishonoured. They 



BIRMAN EMPIRE. 775 

are seldom unfaithful, and often essentially useful to their foreign masters, who 
are not allowed to carry their temporary wives along with them. Infidelity is 
not a characteristic of Birman wives, who in general have too much employment 
to find leisure for corruption. 

In their features the Birmans bear a nearer resemblance to the Chinese than 
to the natives of Hindostan. The women, especially in the northern parts of the., 
empire, are fairer than the Hindoo females, but are not so delicately formed. The 
men are not tall in stature, but they are active and athletic, and have a very 
youthful appearance, from the custom of plucking the beard instead of using the 
razor. Both men and women colour their teeth, their eye lashes, and the edges 
of their eye lids with black. Marriages are not contracted until the parties 
reach the age of puberty. The contract is purely civil, the ecclesiastical juris* 
diction have nothing to do with it. The law prohibits polygamy, and recognizes 
only one wife, but concubinage is admitted to an unlimited extent. When a 
man dies intestate, three-fourths of his property go to his children bom in wed- 
lock, and one-fourth to his widow. The Birmans burn their dead. In their food, 
compared with the Hindostanies, the Birmans are gross and uncleanly. Although 
their religion forbids the slaughter of animals in general, yet they apply the in- 
terdiction only to those that are domesticated. All game is eagerly sought after, 
and in many places publicly sold. Reptiles, such as lizards, guanos, and snakes, 
constitute a part of the subsistence of the lower classes. To strangers they 
grant the most liberal indulgence, and if they chance to shoot at and kill a fat 
bullock, it is ascribed to accident. Among the Birmans the sitting posture is 
the most respectful, but strangers are apt to attribute to insolence, what, in their 
view, is a mark of deference. The Birman houses are in general raised three or 
four feet from the ground, on wooden posts or bamboos and mats, and but in- 
differently thatched. Gilding is forbidden to all Birmans, liberty even to lacker 
and paint the pillars of their houses is granted to few. 

In this empire every thing belonging to the king has the word shoe or gold 
prefixed to it; even his majesty's person is never mentioned, but in conjunction 
with that precious metal. When a subject means to affirm that the king has 
heard any thing, he says, “ it has reached the golden ears he who has obtained 
admittance to the royal presence has been at the “ golden feet.” The perfume 
of otr of roses is described as being grateful to the u golden nose.” Gold among 
the Birmans is the type of excellence, yet, although highly valued, it is not used 
for coin in the country. It is employed sometimes in ornaments for the women, 
and in utensils and ear-rings for the men ; but much the greatest quantity is em- 
ployed in gilding their temples, in which decoration vast sums are continually 



AVA AND THE 


776 

lavished. The Birman sovereign is sole proprietor of all the elephants in hie 
dominions, and the privilege to ride on, or keep, one of these animals, is a 
honour only granted to men of the first rank. In Hindostan female elephants 
are prized beyond males, on account of their being more tractable ; but in Ava 
it is the reverse, females being never used on state occasions, and seldom for 
ordinary riding. The henza, the symbol of the Birman nation, as the eagle wa* 
of the Roman empire, is a species of wild fowl called in India the Brahminy 
goose. It is a remarkable circumstance, that there should not be such an animal 
as a jackal in the Ava dominions. 

The Birmans of high rank have their barges drawn by war boats, it being 
thought inconsistent with their dignity for great men to be in the same boat with 
common watermen. It is customary also, for a person of distinction journeying 
On the water, to have houses built for his accommodation at the places where 
he jnean* to stop. The materials of these houses are easily procured, apid the 
Structure is so simple, that a spacious and commodious dwelling, suitableW the 
climate, may be erected in little more than four hours. Bamboos, grass for 
thatching, and the ground rattan, are all the materials requisite ; not a nail is 
Used in the edifice, and if the whole were to fall, it would scarcely crush a lap 
dog. Notwithstanding the well formed arches of brick that are still to be seen 
in many of the ancient temples, yet Birman workmen can no longer turn them; 
which shows how easily an art once well known may be lost. Masonry, in the 
latter ages has not been much attended to ; wooden buildings have superseded 
the more solid structures of brick and mortar. 

The Pali language constitutes at the present day the sacred text of Ava, 
Pegu, and Siam; and the Birman dialect has borrowed the Sanscrit alphabet, in 
winch it is constantly written. But, notwithstanding this appearance of 
intimacy, the Missionaries, in a specimen of the Lord’s Prayer in the Birman, 
could scarcely discover three genuine Sanscrit words. Many syllables, however, 
according with those of the Chinese colloquial dialect are to be found, and the 
language adopts two of the four Chinese tones. The Sanscrit language is herp 
found arrested in its progress eastward, and constrained to lend its alphabet to 
do little more than clothe and express another system, said, by those who have 
studied it most closely, to be of monosyllabic origin, and retaining tones com* 
pletely foreign to the Sanscrit system. The character in common use throughout 
Ava and Pegu is a round Nagari, derived from the square Pali, or religious test 
It is formed of circles and segments of circles variously disposed, and is written 
from left to right. The common books are composed of the palmira leaf, on 
which the letters are engraved with stiles. The inhabitants of Ava constantly 



BIRMAN EMPIRE. 777 

Wfttte the naro Barma, although, from affecting an indistinct pronunciation, they 
often term themselves Byamma, Bomma, and Myamma, which are only vocal 
corruptions of the written name. 

The laws of the Birmans, like their religion, are Hindoo ; in fact there is no 
separating their laws from their religion. Their code they name Derma Sath or 
Sastra, which is one of the commentaries on Menu. Their system of jurispru- 
dence, like that of the Chinese, provides specifically for almost every species of 
crime that can be committed, and adds a copious chapter of precedents to guide 
the unexperienced, in cases where there is any doubt or difficult. Trial by 
ordeal and imprecation are among the absurd passages in the book, which on 
the subject of females fs to an European offensively indecent. It is a singular 
feet, that the first version of Sir William Jones’s translation of the Institutes of 
Hindoo law should be made into the Birman language. It was completed for 
the Ava sovereign by an Armenian in 1795. 

The Birmans are not shackled by any prejudices of caste, restricted to here- 
ditary occupations, or forbidden from participating with strangers in every social 
bond, like the Hindoos of the Brahminical persuasion. By Colonel Symes their 
laws are described as being wise, and pregnant with sound morality ; but sub- 
sequent information has proved that he drew too favourable a picture of the 
Birman nation. A knowledge of letters, however, is very generally diffused, 
and many can both read and write the vulgar tongue, but few understand the 
scientific, or more sacred volumes. Their knowledge of geography may be in- 
ferred from the following case, put by one of the chief ministers to Captain 
Canning in 1812, during a political discussion : — “ Supposing a Birman ship, 
during her voyage to China, should happen to be dismasted off the Mauritius, 
would she be allowed by the British blockading squadron to enter that port.” 
All kioums or monasteries are seminaries for the education of youth, to which the 
surrounding inhabitants send their children, where they are educated gratis by 
the Rhahaans or monks, who never buy, sell, or accept money. The Birmans 
are extremely fond both of poetry and music, and possess epic as well as reli- 
gious poems of high celebrity. They are also accustomed to recite in verse the 
exploits of their kings and generals. In the royal library, the books are ranged 
with great regularity, the contents of each chest being written in letters of gold 
on the lid. It is said to contain more books on divinity than on any other sub- 
ject; but there arO separate works on history, music, medicine, painting, and 
romance. If all the chests were as well filled as those submitted to the inspec- 
tion of Colonel Symes, it is probable his Birman Majesty possesses a more 
numerous library than any other Asiatic sovereign. 

Tim Birman year is divided into 12 months of 29 and 30 days alternately, 
vo ii. 5o 



778 AVA AND THE 

which they rectify by an intercalation every third year* They reckon the month 
from the beginning to the full of the moon, after which they recede by retro* 
gressive enumeration until the month is finished. The week is divided into seven 
days as in Hindostan. The Christian year, 1795, corresponds with the Bitmaa 
year 1157, and the Mahommedan year 1209. 

Buddha (of whom the Birmans are sectaries, as the Hindoos are of Brahma) 
is admitted by the Hindoos ©f all descriptions to be the 9th Avatar, or descent 
of the deity in the character of preserver ; but the religion of the Buddhists 
differs greatly from that of the Brahmins, the gods of the Brahmins being m a 
state of constant activity, pervading and animating all nature, while those of the 
Buddhists remain quiescent, and do not concern themselves about hum^am affairs. 
The latter teach that from time to time, men of surpassing piety and Aelf denial 
have appeared on the earth, and from their singular worth have, after death, been 
transferred to a state of supreme bliss, or absence of pain. These saints, after 
reforming the world during their life time, and by their superior sanctity acquir- 
ing the power of performing miracles, are imagined after death to possess a com- 
mand over the living, and it is they who are the direct objects of worship with 
the Buddhists. Buddha, during his incarnation, reformed the doctrines of the 
Vedas, and severely censured the sacrifices of cattle, or depriving any thing of 
life. His place of birth and residence is supposed to have been Gaya in Bah&r, 
Gautama, or Gautom, according to the Hindoos of India, or Gaudma among the 
inhabitants of the more eastern parts, is said to have been a saint or philosopher, 
and is believed by the Birmans to have flourished 2300 years ago. He taught in 
the Indian schools the heterodox religion and philosophy of Buddha. The image 
that represents Buddha is called Gaudma or Gautom, which is a commonly re- 
ceived appellation for Buddha himself. This image is the primary object of wor- 
ship in all countries (except Assam and Cassay) situated between Bengal and 
China. The sectaries of Buddha contend with those of Brahma for antiquity, and 
are certainly in the aggregate more numerous. The Cingalese in Ceylon are 
Buddhists of the purest source, and the Birmans acknowledge to have received 
their religion from that island, which they name Zehoo. “ The Rhaba&ns (Birmato 
monks) say it was first brought from Zehoo to Arracan, and thence was intro* 
duced into Ava, and probably into China. The bonzes of the latter count*?,, 
liKe the Rhahaans of Ava, wear yellow as the sacerdotal colour, and in many of 
their customs and ceremonies have a striking similitude. Sir WilliamJones 
determines the period when Buddha appeared on earth to have been 1014 years 
before the birth of our Saviour. 

The Birmans believe in the metempsychosis, and that, having undeigone as- 
certain number of migrations, their souls will, at last, either be received into 



BIRMAN EMPIRE. 779 

l&dr Olympus, on the mountain Meru, or be sent to suffer torments in a place of 
divine punishment. Notwithstanding the Birmans are members of the sect of 
Buddha, and not disciples of Brahma, they nevertheless reverence the Brahmins, 
and acknowledge their superiority in science over their own priests. The king 
and all the chief officers, have always in their houses some of these domestic 
sages, who supply them with astrological advice. The natives of Ava do not 
inflict on themselves disgusting tortures after the manner of the Brahminical 
Hindoos, but they deem it meritorious to mortify the flesh by the voluntary 
penance of abstemiousness and self denial. Like the other sectaries of Buddha, 
they tea much attached to their lares or household gods. A Birman family is 
never without an idol in some corner of the house, made of wood, alabaster, or 
silver; besides which, the country abounds with praws, or temples, in a ruinous 
state, yet new ones are daily erecting. For this the Birmans assign as a reason, ’ 
that, though to mend a decayed temple be an act of piety, yet it is not so men* 
torious as to erect a new one. Those whose finances do not permit them to 
construct a new one, content themselves with the minor good deed of repairing 
an old one. 

The kioums, or convents of the Rhahaans, are different in their structure from 
common houses, and much resemble the architecture of the Chinese. They 
are entirely made of wood, comprehending in the inside one large hall, open on 
all sides. There are no apartments for the private recreations of the Rhahaans, 
publicity being the prevailing system among the Birmans, who admit of no 
secrets either in church or state. Yellow is the only colour worn by the priest- 
hood. They have a long loose cloak, which they wrap round them so as to cover 
most part of their body. The profess celibacy, and abstain from every sensual 
indulgence. The juniors are restricted from wandering about licentiously, the 
head of every convent having a discretionary power to grant or refuse permission 
to go abroad. The Rhahaans or priests never dress their own victuals, holding 
it an abuse to perform any of the common offices of life which may divert them 
from the contemplation of the divine essence. They receive the contributions 
of the laity ready dressed, and prefer cold food to hot. At the dawn of day 
they begin to perambulate the town to collect supplies for the day, each convent 
sending forth a certain number of its members, who walk at a quick pace 
through the streets, and support with the right arm a blue lackered box, in 
wbich the donations are deposited. These usually consist of boiled rice mixed 
with oil, dried and pickled Ash, sweetmeats, fruit, &c. During their walk they 
never cast their eyes to the right or to the left, but keep them fixed on the 
ground. They do not stop to solicit, and seldom even to lookout the^ donors,, 
and they eat but once a day, at the hour of noon. A much larger quantity ot 

5 o 2 



780 AVA AND THE 

provisions is commonly procured than suffices for the members of the convent; 
the surplus is disposed of as charitably as it war given, to the needy stranger, or 
the poor scholars, who daily attend to be instructed in letters, end taught their 
moral and religious duties. In the various commotions of the empire, the 
Rhahaans have never taken any active part, or publicly interfered in politics, or 
engaged in war ; and the Birmans and Peguers, professing the same religion, 
whoever were conquerors, equally respected the ministers of their faith. like 
all eastern nations, the Birmans are fond of processions ; such as a funeral, 
accompanied by a pompous public burning, or the ceremony of admitting 
youths into the convents of Rhahaans, where the age of induction is from eight 
to twelve years. There were formerly nunneries of virgin priestesses, (who, like 
the Rhahaans, wore yellow garments, cut off their hair, and devoted themselves 
to chastity and religion ; but these societies were t long ago abolished, ks being 
. injurious to the population of the state. At present there are a few* old Women 
who shave their heads, wear a white dress, follow funerals, and carry water to 
convents. These venerable dames have a certain portion of respect paid 
to them. 

We have hitherto omitted to notice a very important personage, half sacred, 
half profane, who, being the second dignitary in the kingdom, has a regular 
cabinet composed of a woonghee, or prime minister ; a woondock, or secretary 
of state ; a soughee, or inferior secretary ; a nakeen, or transmitter of intel- 
ligence; besides other subordinate ministers and functionaries, sojn&.of whom 
manage the estates which he possesses in various parts of the country. This 
individual is the white elephant, to whom presents of muslins, chintzes, and 
silks are regularly made by all foreign ambassadors, the order of precedence in 
Ava being as follows : — 1st. The king; 2d. The white elephant; and 3d. The 
queen. The residence of the white elephant is contiguous to the royal palace, 
with which it is connected by a long open gallery supported by numerous 
wooden pillars, at the further end of which a curtain of black velvet, embossed 
with gold, conceals the august animal from the eyes of the vulgar, and before 
this curtain the offerings intended for him are displayed.- His dwelling is a lofty 
hall covered with splendid gilding both inside and out, and supported by 64 
pillars, half of which are elegantly gilt. To two of these his fore feet are fixed 
by silver chains, while his hind ones are secured by links of a baser material. 
His bed consists of a thick mattress covered with blue cloth, over which another 
of softer composition ^Spread, covered with crimson silk. His trappings a re 
very magnificent, beinglpM studded with large diamonds, pearls, sapphires, 
rubies, and other precious stones. His betel box, spitting pot, aside rings, 
and the vessel out of which he feeds, are likewise all of gold inlaid with precious 



BIRMAN EMPIRE. 781 

stones, sad his attendants and guard amount to one thousand persons. The 
white elephant thus fed, dressed, and att end ed , appears to be a diseased animal, 
whose colour had been effected by a species of leprosy. The one shewn to 
Captain Canning, in 1810, was of small size, of a sandy colour, and apparently 
unconscious of his own importance, although his votaries at a distance were 
humbly bowing their heads nearly to the ground. By the Birmans, a. white 
elephant is supposed to contain a human soul in the last stage of many millions 
of transmigrations, at the conclusion of which he is absorbed into the essence of 
the deity and annihilated ; according the Birman faith, the highest state of 
beatitude. 

From the testimony of the Portuguese historians, it appears, that, in- the 
middle of the 16th century, four powerful states occupied the regions feat lie 
between the south-eastern provinces of British India, Yunan in China,' and fee 
eastern sea. Their territories extended from Cassay and Assam on. the north- 
west, and as &r south as J unkseylon. These nations were known to Europeans 
by the names of Arracan, Ava, Pegu, and Siam. Ava, the name of the ancient 
capital of fee Birmans, has usually been accepted as the name of fee country at 
large, which is Myamma, and named by fee Chinese Zomien. The Portuguese 
authors say feat the Birmans, though formerly subject to the Kings of Pegu, 
became afterwards masters of Ava, and caused a revolution at Pegu, about fee 
middle of the 16th century. The Portugueze assisted fee Birman&tn their wars 
against fee Peguers, and continued to exercise an influence in fee Birman and 
Pegu countries, and still greater in Arracan, so long as they maintained an 
ascendancy in fee east over the other European natibns. During fee reign of 
Louis XIV. several splendid attempts were made to propagate the doctrines 
of fee church of Rome, and advance the interest of the French nation in fee 
kingdom of Siam ; but little is related of Ava or Pegu. 

The supremacy of fee Birmans over fed Peguers continued throughout fee 
17fe, and during fee first 40 years of the 18th century; when the Peguers in the 
provinces of Balia, Martaban, Tongho, and Prome, revolted ; a civil war ensued 
which was prosecuted by both sides wife fee most savage ferocity. About fee 
years 1750 and 1751, the Peguers, by the aid of arms procured from Europeans 
trading to their ports, and wife the assistance of some renegade Duteh and 
native Portugueze, gained several victories over the Birmans. In 1752, they 
invested Ava, fee capital, which surrendered at discretion. Dweepdee, fee last 
of a long line of Birman kings, was made prisoner, with all his family, except two 
sons, who effected their escape to the Siamese. Bonna Della, or Beinga Della, 
fee Pegu sovereign, when he had completed fee conquest of Ava, returned to 
hisowmctmntry. 



AVA AND THE 


7m 

A man now arose to rescue his country from this state of degradatu>n.-~>Alom- 
pra (the founder of the present dynasty), a man of low extraction, then know n 
by the name of the Huntsman, was continued by the conqueror in the chiefshlp 
of Monchaboo, at that time an inconsiderable village. His troops at first cm* 
sisted of only 100 picked men, with which he defeated the Peguers in several 
small engagements, and his forces increasing he suddenly advanced and obtained 
possession of Ava about the autumn of 1753. From tibia date, after a series of 
hard fought actions, he first expelled the Peguers from the northern, provinces, 
then pursued them into their own territories, where, after a protracted «fy», 
or rather blockade, he took their capital, which he abandonded to 
plunder and massacre. He next invaded Siam, and' would have alio effected 
the conquest of that empire, if he had not been prevented by a mortal disease 
while besieging the metropolis, which arrested his career on the 15th of May, 
1760, in the 50th year of his age, after a short and successful reign of duly eight 
years. In these wars the French favoured the Peguers, while the English, in- 
clined to the Birmans. 

' Alompra w*s succeeded by his eldest son N&mdojee Praw, under whom the 
limits of the empire were extended, but his reign was short, as his death took 
place in 1764. His brother Shembuan then assumed the reins of government, 
and was very successful in all his martial undertakings, especially against the 
Siamese, whose capital he took in 1766, but was unable to retain permanent 
possession of so distant a country. In A. D. 1767,' or 1131 of the Birman era, 
the Chinese sent an army of 50,000 men from the western frontier of Yunan, 
which advanced as fir into the country as the village of Chiboo, where they 
were hemmed in by the Birmans. The Tartar cavalry, on whose vigour and 
activity the Chinese army depended for supplies, could no longer venture out 
either to procure provisions or to protect convoys. Under these circumstances 
their army was attached and wholly destroyed, except about 2500, whom the 
Birmans sent in fetters to the capital, where they were compelled to ply their 
trades according to the royal pleasure. They ware also encouraged to marry 
Bir man wives, as are all strangers, and to consider themselves as Birmans. This 
custom is angular among the civilised countries of the east, and peculiarly re- 
markable in a people who derive their tenets from a Hindoo source. It is well- 
known, that in' China even the public prostitutes are strictly prohibited from 
all intercourse with any other than a Chinese ; nor hi any foreign woman per- 
mitted to enter the territories, or visit the ports of that jealous nation. Hindoo 
women of good caste are equally inaccessible, and ad m is sion into a respectable 
tribe is not attainable by money. 

Hie remaining yearn of Shembuan wen occupied fat subduing the cento <7 



BIRMAN EMPIRE. 789 

the Peguers, harassing the Siamese, and effecting the conquest ot Munipoor or 
Gassay, which last event took place in the year 1774. He died two years afterwards, 
and was succeeded by his son Chenguza, aged 18, who, proving a debauched 
Mood-thirsty monster, Was dethroned and put to death by his uncle Mindera- 
jee Praw, in 1782, after a short, but (as refers to foreign wars) tranquil reign of 
six years. Minderajee Praw was the fourth son of the great Alompra, the 
founder of the dynasty. One of his first aptsiwas to drown his nephew Momien. 
(the son of Namdojee Praw, the second sovereign,) by fixing him betwixt two 
jars, which were sunk in the stream, conformably to the Birman mode of exe- 
cuting members of the royal family. When he ascended the throne he was 43 
years of age, and had tw6 sons already grown up to man's estate. He had en- 
joyed the throne but a short time, when he had nearly been deprived both of 
life and diadem by a desperado named Magoung, who, with a gang of about 
100 confederates, attacked him and his guards in his own palace, where they all 
perished. During his days of leisure, this monarch directed much of his at- 
tention to astronomical studies, and became a thorough believer in judicial 
astrology. Brahmins, wbu, although inferior in sanctity to the Rhahaans, are 
nevertheless held in high respect by the Birmans, had long been accustomed to 
migrate from Cassay and Arracan to Ava. Minderajee Praw appointed a certain 
number of them his domestic chaplains, and, prompted by their persuasions, he 
determined to withdraw the seat of government from Ava and found a new 
metropolis, which he did at Ummerapoor. 

In the year 1783, corresponding with the Birman year 1146, he sent a fleet 
of boats against Arracan, which was conquered after a slight resistance, and 
Mahasumda, the Raja, and his family made prisoners. The surrender of Che* 
duba, Ramree, and the Broken Isles, followed the conquest of Arracan, and al- 
though the Birmans could not preserve the possession of the interior of Siam, 
they retained the dominion over the sea coast as far as Mergui. In the year 
1785, they attacked the island of Junkseylon with a fleet of boats and an army, 
but although at first successful were ultimately compelled to retreat with con- 
siderable loss. The Birman sovereign, whose pride was deeply mortified by 
this, resolved to repair the disgrace, and, in 1786, invaded Siam with an army of 
30,000 men, but was totally defeated near the frontier by Pietick Singh, the 
King of Siam, his useless cannon taken, and himself with great difficulty escaping . 
captivity*. The Birmans ascribe their defeat in this action to the incumbrance 
of their cannon, which were old ship guns mounted on old carriages. In 1790, 
the Siamese obtained possession of Tavay by treachery, which the Birmans, in 
1791, regained by the same' expedient, and that year compelled the Siamese to 
false the siege of Mergui. In 1793, peace was concluded with the Siamese, 



784 AVA AND THE 

who ceded to the Birmans <he western maritime towns as far south as Mergui, 
thus yielding to them the entire possession of the coast of Tenasserim and the 
two important seaports of Mergui and Tavay. 

In 1795, his Birman majesty learning that three distinguished robbers from 
the Birman dominions had taken refuge in the Bengal district of Chittagong, 
without communicating his intentions, or in any shape demanding the fugitives, 
thought proper to order a body of 5000 men under an officer of rank, to miter 
the Company’s territories, with positive injunctions to the commander not to 
return unless he brought with him the delinquents, dead or alive ; and further to 
support this detachment, an army of 20,000 men was held in readiness at Arra- 
can. In cousequence of this irruption, a strong detachment was fent from' 
Calcutta, a battalion of Europeans by water, and the Native Infentmby land, 
under the command of General Erskine. Sree Nunda Kiozo, the Birman chief* 
to whom the task of reclaiming the fugitives had been assigned, after tps army 
had crossed the riyer and eneamped on the opposite bank, dictated a letter to 
the British judge and magistrate of Chittagong, acquainting him with the rea- 
sons of the inroad, and that the capture of the delinquents was his sole object, 
without harbouring any design of hostilities against the English. At the same 
time he declared in a peremptory style, that until they were given up he would 
not depart from the Company’s territories ; and, as a confirmation of the menace, 
fortified his camp with stockades. These matters being reported at Calcutta, 
the magistrate of Chittagong was ordered to apprehend the refugees, and keep 
them in safe custody until furnished with further instructions. 

On the approach of General Erskine, Sree Nunda Kiozo sent a flag of truce, 
proposing terms of accommodation, stipulating for the surrender of the fugitives 
as the basis of the agreement The General replied, that no terms could be listened 
to while the Birmans continued on British ground ; but that as soon as they 
withdrew from their fortified camp, and retired within their own frontier, he 
would enter on the subject of their complaints, notifying also, that, unless they 
evacuated the Chittagong district within a limited time, force would be used to 
compel them. The Birman chief, with a manly confidence in die British cha- 
racter, waited personally on General Erskine, and disclosed to him the nature of 
his instructions, the enormity of the offenders, and the outrages they had com- 
mitted. General Erskine assured him it was far from the intention of dm 
British government to screen delinquents, but that it was impossible for him to 
recede from his first determination. The Birman commander agreed to with- 
draw his troops, and the retreat was conducted in the most orderly manner, nor 
had anyone act of violence been committed by the Birman troops during t heir- 
continuance in the Company’s territories. , The guilt of the refugees being 



BIRMAN EMPIRE. 785 

afterwards established, they were delivered over to the Birman magistrates, by 
whose sentence, two out of the three underwent capital punishment. 

From the above date until 1809, when Captain Cannings mission took place, 
the condition of this empire, both moral and political, had been progressively 
deteriorating, and the intellects of its sovereign gradually verging towards in- 
sanity. In that year, Minderajee Praw had attained the age of seventy-one, and 
when seen by the British envoy, appeared still a robust old man, with harsh 
features, plainly dressed, and seated on a wooden frame covered with carpet. 
At all times superstitious, cruel, and despotic, age had aggravated these evil 
qualities, and rendered him so gloomy, suspicious, and irascible, as to be quite 
insupportable to his family and dependants. An unaccountable caprice induced 
him to abandon Ummerapoor, the capital he had created, and fix his court at 
Mengoury, the general name of a cluster of sand banks seven miles above 
Ummerapoor, which space for six months of the year is covered a foot deep with 
sand, and in the rains is two feet under water. In this strange retreat he was 
accustomed to sit for days absorbed in gloomy melancholy, and yet so strongly 
averse to die, as to believe in the virtue of charms and elixirs, to the compound- 
ing of which last he devoted a considerable portion of his leisure. 

The Engy Tekien, or heir apparent, died in 1808, and also his chief minister, 
a very respectable old man, both of whom had frequently prevented or mitigated 
many of the kings absurd and sanguinary orders. Deprived of these checks, 
his rage became ungovernable, and he often pursued with his sword and spear 
any person whose countenance he disliked. He also at times ordered hundreds 
for execution, and then executed his ministers for obeying his orders. Feuds, 
jealousies, and distrust, prevailed among all branches of the royal family, and 
were by him, with a view to self preservation, encouraged, being equally feared 
and hated by every description of persons. Some houses not far from the 
king's palace having been attacked, one of the assailants was wounded and taken, 
and on examination proved to be in the service of a minister attached to the 
Prince of Prome. This functionary, in consequence of the discovery, together 
with his wife and child (six years of age), were ordered to be hacked in pieces, . 
which sentence was duly executed, and sometime afterwards, 30 men, women, 
and children, were burned and beat to death with bamboos, on the same account. 
While these atrocities were perpetrating at the capital, the whole time and at- 
tention of the government were occupied by the numerous commotions in all 
parts of the country, and more especially by the formidable insurrection of 
Nakonek. This person had been a . respectable merchant, who having built 
several pagodas, was deemed religious. — To conciliate the gang robbers, 
whom he could not resist, he occasionally made them presents of provisions and 
vol. n. 5 u 



AVA AND THE 


786 

other articles. Minderajee, the king, being informed of this, ordered Nakonek 
to be put to death as an accomplice, but he receiving timely notice of the be- 
nevolent intention, fled to the robbers, and was elected their chief. From hence- 
forward the insurrection became regularly organized, and nothing less was 
aimed at than the deposition of the reigning dynasty. After many engagements, 
Nakonek acquired possession of Sillahmew, on which event he assumed the 
ensignia of royalty, being then 42 years of age, and reported to possess the 
description of abilities necessary to qualify him for an usurper. Under these 
circumstances, the condition of the interior of Ava became equally deplorable 
with that of the river banks ; villages and towns were everywhere deserted, 
robbers and insurgents ranged about the country, and many of the harassed in- 
habitants, at the risk of their lives, openly expressed their wishes, tkat the 
English would either take the country, or allow them to migrate to Bengal. 
The existing Engy Tekien, or heir apparent, was also very desirous of securing 
the support of the British government to his claims to the throne, as on the 
event of his grandfathers death, the succession would ultimately be decided 
by an appeal to arms, for which purpose he deemed five thousand troops amply 
sufficient. 

Prior to 1809, a mission on the part of the French, under a Colonel de la 
Iloussaye, had been sent to the court of Ava, but it does not appear that the 
intrigues of this legation were attended with any important result. In 1809 , 
however, Minderajee Praw, instigated by a colony of mischievous and spurious 
Brahmins (their names ending in Doss and Singh), twenty in number, demanded 
from the British government the provinces of Dacca and Chittagong, as ancient 
appendages to the Birman empire. These emissaries find their way to the 
capital of Ava by the way of Ramoo in Chittagong, and by Arracan, and in ef- 
fecting the journey proceed by unfrequented roads over the mountains. Two 
of them were soon after sent back from Ummerapoor to Chittagong and Dacca 
for the purpose of taking plans. In 1813 , a Birman ackawoon, or nobleman, 
was dispatched on a mission of a different nature. This person, in 1813 , visited 
Benares for the ostensible purpose of collecting religious writings, but in reality, 
with the design of procuring some Hindostany females, in which it appears he 
succeeded, as on Ins return he presented one to the king, representing her to be 
the daughter of the Raja of Arracan, sent by that chief as a token of respect 
to his Birman majesty. As may be supposed, this agent from the court of Ava 
while at Benares made no attempt to procure any sacred writings, but as a col- 
lateral object, engaged in secret conferences with some Brahmins there, who 
carry on an intercourse with the Birman capital, but the whole of these intriguer 
were considered by the Bengal government as too contemptible for notice* 



BIRMAN EMPIRE. 78? 

In 1813, a change took place in the commercial system of Ava, by the aboli- 
tion of all the duties laid on since the year 1788, the sovereign having issued 
an order to that effect. Although the abrogation of these oppressive imposts 
was accompanied by all the necessary formalities, so slender an opinion was 
entertained of his Birman majesty’s good faith, by the merchants of Calcutta, 
that it was at first considered merely an expedient to entrap a number of British 
vessels and crews, to be retained as hostages for the expulsion of the Mugh re- 
fugees from Chittagong. The supreme government therefore, when they an- 
nounced the fact to the public, took great care not to pledge themselves for its 
performance, yet in consequence of the notification, the remaining duties being 
only 15 per cent, many vessels resorted to Rangoon from the different presidencies, 
when although it does not appear that any very glaring breach of faith occurred, 
yet neither did the Birman court strictly adhere to the terms of the proclamation. 
An additional duty of two per cent, was levied, to which even ships that had 
previously sailed were declared liable, and security for its payment extorted 
from the agents at Rangoon who had transacted the business. 

About this period Lord Moira succeeded to the supreme government, when 
the Birman envoys then in Calcutta, adverting to the practice of their own 
country, where every change of governor usually produces a reversal of his pre- 
decessor’s measures, requested to be informed whether or not his Lordship in- 
tended to persevere in the protection afforded to the refugee Mughs from 
Arracan, as, unless they had a written confirmation of, his intention to do so, 
they would not only be disbelieved on their return to Ava, but suffer severe 
punishment for supposed remissness in the execution of their duty. To pre- 
serve them from this dilemma, a written confirmation was in consequence pre- 
pared, and ratified by his Lordship’s signature. 

In 1810, there were four Missionaries in Ava, which offered a fair field for 
their exertions, the Birmans being restrained by few shackles, and general to- 
leration being a standing maxim of government, but at that period no progress 
of importance had been made. In 1813, the Birman sovereign dispatched Mr. 
Felix Carey to Bengal to procure vaccine variola, for the purpose of vaccinating 
the son of his royal highness the Engy Praw, and the general introduction of 
that prophylactic into the Birman dominions. 

In 1814, this barbarous and ignorant court renewed the wild and extravagant 
scheme of forming a confederation among all the native princes of India, to effect 
the expulsion of the British; and connected with the plan, a rumour was circu- 
lated through the Birman territories, that the King of Ava meant to make a pil- 
grimage to Gaya and Benares, at the head of an army of 40,000 men. An 
emissary also, disguised as a merchant, was dispatched to Dacca, on a clandes- 

5 b 2 



AVA AND THE 


788 


[lftAWADDV RIVER' 


tine mission to the Seik country and Upper Hindostan, while the Shahbuhder of 
Arracan, who had been dispatched by a different route, visited Trin^omalee and 
Madras, where he collected such information as he could procure regarding the 
politics of Southern India. This Birman intrigue was from the beginning fully 
known to the Bengal government, but so little importance was attached to it that 
it was not deemed necessary to betray any jealousy by interdicting the Birman 
commercial intercourse with the city of Dacca, to which the surreptitious mer- 
chant was allowed to proceed, but as his commercial pretensions there ceased, 
the magistrate of that city was instructed to arrest his further progress, and 
send him back to Arracan. 4 

In 1817, it was reported by the magistrate of Chittagong, that a Birman force 
amounting to 6000 men had marched towards the frontiers of Silhet, while the 
ingress and egress of various intriguers through the Chittagong district required 
the unceasing vigilance of the government. At the same time, a Birman offi- 
cer, who had made a clandestine tour through Bengal, and was noted for his 
enmity to the British government, was appointed governor of a section of the 
Arracan province situated between the capital and the river Nauf. No events of 
the slightest importance ever resulted from these apparently hostile preparations, 
and uncommon numbers of Birman merchant boats continued to pass and re- 
pass through the British provinces. The death of old Minderajee Praw, which 
took place on the 5th of June, 1819, in the 83d year of his age, has tended to 
remove still further all apprehensions of a rupture. Immediately on that event 
taking taking place, the Engy Tekien, or heir apparent, (grandson to the deceased 
monarch) assumed the government ; the junior branches of the family revolted, 
and scenes of bloodshed and massacre commenced, such as are usual among 
factions whose hatred to each other is too implacable to admit of their leaving 
their work half done. — ( Symes, Canning , Public MS* Documents, Cox, Leyden, 
F* Buchanan , 8$c.) 

Irawaddy River ( Travati ). — A great river of the Birman empire, the source 
of which has never been explored, but which is supposed to be in the eastern 
quarter of Tibet, The course of the Irawaddy is nearly north and south, and 
it is* to the Ava dominions what the Ganges is to Bengal, at once a source of 
fertilization and of inland navigation, connecting the different provinces from the 
frontiers of Tibet and China to the sea. The swelling of the Irawaddy is not 
influenced by the quantity of rain that falls in the low countries ; but by the 
heavy showers in the mountainous part of its track. Whilst the drought in the 
champaign districts is very great, the river rises to its usual height ; the part 
the country near the city of Ava being rarely refreshed by copious rains, but, 
like Egypt, depends on tbe overflowing of its river, for a supply of moisture. 



ummerapoor.] BIRMAN EMPIRE. 789 

In the months of June, July, and August, the river, which in the hot and dry 
seasou winds over its sandy bed, a slow and sluggish stream,* swells over its 
banks and inundates the adjacent country. The current is very impetuous, but 
is counteracted by the strength of the south-west monsoon. During the mon* 
soon months it rises and subsides several times. 

Notwithstanding the general name of the river is Irawaddy; yet different 
parts of it are distinguished by different names, taken from places of note on its 
banks. The term is wholly Hindoo, being the name of Indra’s elephant. At 
Ummerapoor even in the dry season, the principal branch of the Irawaddy is a 
mile broad. Its waters # possess the quality of petrifying wood in a very high 
degree. From Dr. Francis Buchanan’s geographical researches while in Ava, it 
appears, that the river coming from Tibet, which was supposed to be that of 
Arracan, is in fact the Keenduem, or great western branch of the Irawaddy ; 
and that which was supposed to be the western branch is in reality the eastern 
one, which passes by Ava, and runs to the south, keeping west from the pro- 
vince of Yunan in China. — (Symes, F. Buchanan , §c.) 

Ummerapoor ( Amarapura , the city of the immortals ). — A large city of India 
beyond the Ganges, and the modern capital of the Birman empire. Lat. 21° 
55' N. long. 96° T E. This metropolis stands on the banks of a deep and ex- 
tensive lake, about seven miles long by one and a half broad. When filled by the 
periodical rains, the lake on the one side, and the river on the other, form a dry 
peninsula, on which the city is placed. On entering the lake when the floods 
are at the highest, the number and variety of the boats, the great expanse of 
water, with the lofty surrounding hills, present an extraordinary sight to a 
stranger. 

The fort of Ummerapoor is an exact square. There are four principal gates, 
one in each face, and there is also a smaller gate on each side of the great gate, 
equidistant between it and the angle of the fort, comprising 12 gates in all. At 
each* angle of the fort there is a large quadrangular bastion which projects con- 
siderably ; there are also eleven smaller bastions on each side, including those 
over the gateway. Between each of these bastions is a curtain extending 200, 
yards in length, from which calculation it results that a side of the fort occupies 
2400 square yards. The ditch of the fort is wide, and faced with brick; the 
passage across is over a causeway formed by a mound of earth, and defended by 
retrenchments. The rampart faced by a wall of brick is about 20 feet high, ex- 
clusive of the parapet, which has embrasures for cannon and apertures for 
muskets. The body of the rampart is composed of earth sustained within and 
externally by strong walls. Small demi-bastions project at regular distances* 
and the gates are massive and guarded by cannon. This fortress considered as 



790 AVA AND THE [ummerapoor 

an eastern fortification, is respectable, but insufficient to resist the approaches of 
an enemy skilled in artillery tactics. From the height and solidity of the wall, 
the Birmans consider it impregnable, although a battery of half a dozen well- 
served cannon would breach it in a few hours. The southern face of the fort 
is washed during the rainy season by the waters of the lake, and the houses of 
the city extend along the bank as far as the extreme point of land. 

In Ummerapoor there are but few houses of brick and mortar, and these 
belong to the members of the royal family. The houses of the chief persons are 
surrounded by a wooden enclosure; and all houses whatever are covered with 
tiles, and have in the ridge of the roof earthern pots fille/i with water, in readiness 
to be broken should fire occur. The splendour of the religious buildings is very 
striking, owing to the unbounded expenditure of gilding, which is applied to the 
outside of the roofs as well as within, and must absorb much bullion. The gold 
leaf used is exceedingly pure, and bears exposure to the air for a long tiirie with- 
out suffering injury. These edifices being generally composed of wood, and 
other perishable materials, there existence is not of any very long duration. 
Contiguous to the fort is a small street, formerly entirely occupied by shops of 
silversmiths, who exposed their ware in the open balcony, and displayed a great 
variety of Birman utensils; but when visited by Captain Canning, in 1810, the 
greater part of these shops had disappeared, and on the 28th March of that 
year the entire city and fort, including all the palaces and about 20,000 houses, 
were destroyed by fire. The pudigaut or royal library is situated in the north- 
west angle of the fort, in the centre of a court paved with broad flags. The 
books are kept in wooden chests curiously ornamented, about 100 in number, 
and well filled ; the contents of each chest are marked in letters of gold on the 
lid. The greater part concern divinity ; but history, music, medicine, painting, 
and romance, have also their separate volumes. Across the lake there are ex- 
tensive fields of wheat, which, in 1795, was sold in the city at the rate of one 
tackel (nearly 2s. 6d.) for 56 pounds weight, and equal in quality to the finest 
in England. 

Ummerapoor is subdivided into four distinct subordinate jurisdictions, in each 
of which a maywoon presides. This officer, who in the provinces is a viceroy, 
in the capital performs the duties of a mayor, and holds a civil and criminal 
court of justice. In capital cases he transmits the evidence with his opinion in 
writing to the lotoo, or grand chamber of consultation, where the council of state 
assembles. There are regularly established lawyers, who conduct causes and 
plead; eight of these are licensed to plead before the lotoo, and their usual fee 
is 16s. Ummerapoor was founded by the Birman monarch Minderajee Praw 
so recently as 1783, about four miles east of Old Ava the ancient capital, and, 



ava.] BIRMAN EMPIRE. 791 

as already related, has since been abandoned by him through an unaccountable 
caprice, for some sterile sand banks seven miles further up the stream. Buildings 
in this part of India are almost wholly composed of wood, and the river pre- 
senting a convenient water carriage, a capital is created and increases with most 
incredible rapidity. About A. D. 1800, the population was estimated by Captain 
Cox at 175,000, and the houses at from 20,000 to 25,000 ; but in 1810, Captain 
Canning was of opinion that the population had diminished one half since Colonel 
Symes’s mission. Every facility being supposed, a communication may be held 
between the British frontier, and the capital of Ava in 12 or 13 days, viz. to 
Shembighewn, 2 days ; thence to Arracan, 8 days ; thence to Ramoo in Chitta- 
gong, 2 days; total 12 days. There is another road from Arracan to the Ava 
territories, which branches off at Padang, a town situated on the Irawaddy about 
10 days' journey above Rangoon. — (Symes, Canning , Cox, §c. 

Ava. — A town of the Birman empire, properly named Aingwa, four miles 
west from the new capital above described. Lat. 21 0 51' N. long. 95° 58' E. 
This place is divided into the upper and lower city, both of which are fortified, 
the lower being about four miles in circumference. It is protected by a wall 
30 feet high, at the foot of which there is a deep and broad fosse. The com- 
munication betwixt the fort and the country is over a mound of earth crossing the 
ditch that supports a causeway ; the wall is sustained on the inside by an em- 
bankment of earth. The upper or small fort does not exceed a mile in circum- 
ference, and is much the strongest, but all the walls are mouldering to decay. 
The materials of the houses, which consisted principally of wood, were trans- 
ported to the new city of Ummerapoor, but the ground, where not covered with 
grass, still retains traces of former buildings and streets. The disposition of the 
latter nearly resembles that of Ummerapoor. 

In the temple of Logathero Praw is still to be seen a gigantic image of Gaudma, 
of marble, seated in its customary position on a pedestal. The height of the 
idol, from the top of the head to the pedestal on which it sits, is nearly 24 feet; 
the head is 8 feet in diameter, and across the breast it measures 10 feet. The 
Birmans assert that it is composed of one entire block of marble, nor on the 
closest inspection can any junction be perceived. The building has evidently 
been erected over the idol, as the entrance would scarcely permit the introduc- 
tion of his head. Within the fort stands a temple of superior sanctity named 
Shoegunga Praw, in which all oaths of consequence are administered, the breach 
of which is considered as a most heinous crime. How this temple obtained so 
eminent a distinction is not known. Besides these two there are numerous 
temples, on which the Birmans never lay sacrilegious nands, dilapidating by the 
corrosion of time ; indeed it would be difficult. to exhibit a more striking pic- 



792 AVAANDTHE [chagaing. 

ture of desolation and ruin, than that which this forsaken capital presents.*- 
(Symes, %c.) 

Bamoo. — A town in the northern quarter of the Birman empire, only 20 miles 
from the frontiers of the province of Yunan in China. Lat. 24° N. long. 96° 
% 56' E. This town and district attached to it were taken from the Chinese by 
the Birmans since the accession of the present dynasty. The road from this 
town to Manchejee or Yunan lies through mountains, and it is the usual route 
of the Birman envoys going to Pekin. — (Symes, §c.) 

Mo nc ha boo. — This town is of small size, but much venerated by the Bir- 
mans as the Birth place of Alompra the founder of the present dynasty, and 
during his short and active reign, the capital. Lat. 2 !2° 40' N. long. 96° 20' E. 
The distance from Rangoon to Monchaboo by the Irawaddy is 500 miles. — 
(Symes, $c.) \ 

Chagaing. — A large fortified town in the Birman dominions, situated, on the 
west bank of the Irawaddy, opposite to the city of Ava. Lat. 21° 54' N \ long. 
96° E. This is the principal emporium to which cotton is brought from all parts 
of the country ; and where, after being cleaned, it is embarked for the China 
market. It is sent from hence by the Irawaddy in boats, which carry about 
36,000 pounds; the voyage to Quantong, on the frontiers of the province of 
Yunan in China, occupying from 30 to 40 days. In the latter part of the jour- 
ney, the passage is difficult and dangerous, owing to the increased rapidity of 
the stream over a rocky channel. At Chagaing, females perform the office of 
cleaning the cotton from the seed, which is effected by double cylinders turned 
by a lathe. 

Namdojee Praw, the second monarch of the reigning family, removed the seat of 
government from. Monchaboo to Chagaing, on account of the purity of the air and 
the beauty of the scenery around it. The town is a great place of religious resort, 
on account of the number of praws or temples erected in the neighbourhood. 
It is also the principal manufactory of idols, which, being hewn out of an adja- 
cent quarry of fine alabaster, are sculptured here, and afterwards transported to 
the remotest corners of the Birman empire. Near to Chagaing is a smaller 
town named Kycockzeit, remarkable for being the great sculpture shop of mar- 
ble idols, the inhabitants being all statuaries. Here are 30 or 40 large yards 
crowded with artists at work on images of various dimensions, but all of the 
same personage, Gaudma, sitting cross legged on a pedestal. The largest a 
little exceeds the human size, and the cost is £12 or £13 ; but some diminutive 
Gaudmas may be had for six or seven shillings. The workmen do not part with 
their sacred commodity to any but Birmans. In the neighbourhood there is a 
manufactory of rockets of a most enormous size. The tubes are the trunks of 



siixahhew.] BIRMAN EMPIRE. 


793 


trees, bored like a pump, in some the cavity of the cylinder is 9 or 10 inches in 
diameter, and the wood about 2 inches thick ; the length varies from 12 to 20 


feet. These tubes are filled with a composition of charcoal, saltpetre, and gun- 
powder, rammed very hard, and the large ones are discharged from a high 
scaffold, erected on purpose. Bamboos fastened together, of a length adapted 
to preserve the poise, form the tail of the rocket. In this branch of pyrotechny 
the Birmans take great delight, and are particularly skilful. — (Symes, Cox, Bye.) 

Pagahm. — A town of the Birman empire, situated on the east side of the Ira- 
waddv. Lat. 21° 9' N.» long. 94° 35' E. In remote times this city was the resi- 
dence of a long dynasty of kings, and is still famous for its numerous temples, to 
count which is among the proverbial impossibilities of the Birmans. Scarcely any 
thing now remains of ancient Pagahem, except its innumerable mouldering tem- 
ples, and the vestiges of an old brick fort, the ramparts of which are still to be 
traced. When visited by Colonel Symes in 1795, the bazars were well provided 
with rice, pulse, greens, garlick, onions, and -fruit ; besides fresh fish, gnapee (pu- 
trid sprats), and dead lizards, which last the Birmans account a great delicacy 
when well cooked ; but the markets contained no butcher’s meat. Pagahm is said 


to have been the residence of 45 successive monarchs, and abandoned 500 years 
ago in consequence of divine admonition. Its remains prove it to have been a 
place of no ordinary splendour. Many of the most ancient temples here are not 
solid at the bottom. A well arched dome supports a ponderous superstructure, 
within which an image of Gaudma sits enshrined. His general posture is sitting 
on a pedestal, adorned with representations of the sacred leaf of the lotus ; the 
left hand resting on the lap, the right pendent. Even after it ceased to be the 
metropolis, Pagahm was long reckoned the second city of the empire; but 
when visited by Captain Canning in 1809, this once magnificent and populous 
town exhibited a striking picture of the desolation that pervaded the Birman 
empire. The men had been forcibly carried away to the army ; the defenceless 
women and children plundered by Nakonek, the insurgent, and the greater part 
of the town reduced to ashes. The manufactures of lackered ware, for which 
fee town was famous, were reduced to small sheds, containing a few cups and 
betel boxes.— (Sym*, Canning, %c. 

Sii xah mew. In 1796, this was a large town, shaded by wide spreading 

trees embel lished wife temples, and remarkable for its manufactures of silk, fee 
raw material for which was procured from fee province of Yunan, in China. 
Ibe c olo u rs are bright and beautiful, but do not appear durable ; fee texture is 
close and strong, and the fabric is said to wear much longer than any from China 
or Hindostan, bat the price is in proportion high. When examined by fee 
mUaion in 1809, fee numerous pagodas and religious buildings indicated 

rot. ix. 8 1 



794 AVA AND THE [nivosss. 

the extent and late importance of the town ; but, with the exception of one old 
woman, not an inhabitant remained. A great proportion of the males who had 
reached the age of puberty had been compelled to recruit the army then ac ting 
against the Siamese, and being thus left defenceless, it fell a prey to the insur- 
gent Nakonek, who completed its ruin. Lat. 20° 50' N. tong. 94° E. — 

(Symes, Canning, 8$c.) 

Shembighewn. — This is a town of considerable importance, as from 
the road from Ava branches off to the town of Arracan, which to eight days’ 
journey distant. The road over the mountains is said to be practicable for 
horses and bullocks, but not for wheeled carriages. Shembighewn is Situated on 
the banks of the Irawaddy. Lat. 20° 48' N. long. 94* 30' E. — (SymeLSfc.) 

Yanangheoum. — A town in the Birman dominions, situated on thq left bank 
of the Irawaddy. Lat. 20* 28' N. long. 94* 35' E. Five miles east of Yanan- 
gheoum are the celebrated petroleum wells, which supply the whole Birman 
empire, and many parts of India, with this useful production. The town to 
chiefly inhabited by potters, who carry on an extensive manufacture of earthen- 
ware. There are here a great many oil pits within a small compass, the aper- 
ture being generally four feet square, and lined with timber. The oil to drawn 
up with an iron pot fastened to a rope, passed over a wooden cylinder revolving 
on an axis supported by two upright posts. When the pot to. filled, two men 
take the rope and run down a declivity ; the pot is afterwards emptied into a 
cistern, and the water drawn off by a hole at the bottom. The depth of the 
pits is about 37 fathoms, so that the quantity they contain cannot be seen. 
When a well is exhausted, they restore thfc spring by cutting deeper into the 
rock which is extremely hard. The Birman government farms out the ground 
that supplies the oil, and it becomes subject to adventurers, who dig the wells 
at their own hazard. The commodity is sold very cheap on the spot, the prin- 
cipal expense being the transportation charges, and the cost of the earthen pots 
to hold it. — (Symes, 8$c.) 

Meegheoung Yay.— This town stands on the east side of the Irawaddy, end 
in 1795 was a place of considerable trade, from which rice, garlick, onions, and 
oil were exported. Lat. 19° 53' N. long. 94® 50' E. 

Peinghee. — A town in the Birman territories, situated on the west tide of 
the Irawaddy. Lat 18® 3T N. long. 94® 50' E. In the vicinity of this plaoe a 
great part of the teak timber is procured which to carried to Rangoon and from 
thence exported to the British provinces. The forests extendalong the western 
mountains, end are in sight from the river. The trees are felled in the dry les- 
sen; and when the monsoon sets in are borne down by the eenent of the Jba- 
waddy. Here, also, ships of 400 tons burthen are frequently- built, although 



eakoook.] BIRMAN EMPIRE. 795 


the distance from Rangoon, including the windings of the river, be 160 miles. — 
(Symet, $c.) 

Mitahoov. — An ancient town in the Birman dominions, formerly named 
Loonzay, and fiuaous during the wars between the Birmans and Peguers, until 
the latter were reduced to subjection. Lat. 18° 19' N. long. 95° S' E. When 
visited by Colonel Byrnes in 1796, this town extended two miles along the 
western margin 7 of the Irawaddy, and was distinguished by numerous gilded 
spires and spacious convents. The vicinity is uncommonly fertile in rice, and 
from hence-a large quantity is annually exported to the metropolis. The Bir- 
man sovereign has here spacious granaries built of wood, and always kept re- 
plenished with grain ready to be transported to any part of the empire when a 
scarcity occurs, which is not unfrequent in the upper provinces where the pe- 
riodical rains are not so copious, nor so certain as in the southern districts. In 
1809, this, like all the other Birman towns, had undergone a general decay ; 
the population had diminished to 1000 persons, and boat building from 200 to 
40, while the quays, instead of 200, presented to the inspection of the embassy 
only 60 or 70, apparently rotting for want of employment. To complete its mis- 
fortunes, on the 1st of January, 1810, the town with all its boats and sheds was 
totally burned to ashes. — (Symu, Canning, %c.) 

Peome.— A town in the Birman dominions, situated on the east side of the 


Irawaddy, named also Peeage Mew. Lat. 18* 56 N. long. 95*. This city was 
the original and natural boundary of the Birman empire to the south, although 
conquest has stretched their dominions several degrees further. In 1795, Prome 
was larger and more populous than Rangoon, having been then estimated to 
W n to iw 40,000 inhabitants; but, in 1809, it exhibited a very .different appear- 
ance, as the houses were deserted, and the shops shut ; the remaining population 
c o n s isted mostly of old men, women, and children. 

Rangoox. — The principal sea-port of. the Birman empire, situated in the 
province of Pegu. Lat. 10° 47' N. long. 96° 6 E. The entrance of the river 
below Rangoon resembles that of the Ganges, but its navigation is more com- 
modious. The town stretches along the banks of the river about a mile, and is 
not more than a third of a mile broad. In 1795, there were 5000 registered 
tmiiU houses in the city and suburbs, but in 1812, by fire and misgovernment, 
they, had been reduced to 1500. The trade of the port had proportionably de- 
cayed. In 1810, the shahbunder, or custom-master, was an Englishman of the 
name of Rogers, who thirty years before had deserted from an Indiaman. 
Having subscribed himself a vassal to the Prince of Prome, he becamesuhject 
to the Birman laws, was raised to the dignity above mentioned, and frequently 
nut to the torture. Another principal member of the Rangoon government was 

* 6 r 2 



796 AVA AND THE [**©». 

Baba Sheen, an old Armenian, who, although he received no salary, was Obliged 
annually to make the King considerable presents, and had more than once been 
stripped by his Majesty of all he possessed. On the 13th of January, 1812/ 
Rangoon, with the exception of a very few houses, was totally destroyed by 
fire ; but in a country of forests a wooden town is soon rebuilt. In the same year, 
during a temporary alarm of an attack from the Malabar British cruizer of 20 
guns, the viceroy of Pegu ordered all the tombs to be demolished, and children 
scarcely able to walk were seen carrying one, two, or three bricks, according to 
their strength, to the batteries. While the uproar lasted, the European tombs 
were overthrown along with the rest, but the British envoy, Captain Canning, 
having remonstrated against this sacrilegious act, the viceroy meanly disavowed 
his share in the transaction, and undertook to have them rebuilt. Injdeed the 
condition of Prome, Rangoon, and all the large towns in Pegu, is such, \ that an 
expedition by water could easily obtain possession of them all. — ( Symes , Gaming , 
Cox, $c.J \ 

Tongho. — A town, district, and fortress in the Birman dominions, the last 
accounted a place of uncommon strength. Lat. 18° 50' N. long. 96° 40' E. 
The province of Tongho is said to be rich and populous, and is usually governed 
by one of the sons of the Birman monarch, who takes his title from it, being 
called the Tonghy Teekien, or Prince of Tongho. The inhabitants excel in the 
manufacture of cotton cloth, and the land produces the best betel nut in the 
empire. In this luxury the Birmans of all ranks indulge so freely, that it has 
become with them almost a necessary of life. The natives of Tongho are famous 
for their licentiousness and ferocity, and among the Birmans notorious for their 
insolence and dishonesty. — (Symes, S?c.) 

Pegu. — An ancient kingdom of India beyond the Ganges, which now forms 
one of the southern provinces of the Birman empire. The word Pegu appears to 
be a corruption of Bagoo, the vulgar name of the capital. The original inhabi- 
tants denominate themselves Mon ; by the Chinese and Birmans they are termed 
Talleing ; and by the Siamese Mingmon. The province of Pegu extends along 
the mouths of the two great rivers Irawaddy and Thaulayn, (or of Ava and 
Martaban), and occupies the sea coast from the frontier of Arracan to those of 
Siam. The town of Prome was formerly its northern frontier. 

The river' of Pegu, which was supposed to come from China, rises among the- 
hills, about 100 miles fronf the sea, which form the boundary between the Birman 
and Pegu countries. Its communication with the sea is by the Rangoon river, 
and in the fair season it is almost dry. The country inland from the river is 
clear of trees and brushwood ; but on the banks of the channel there are thickets 
which abound with the domestic fowl in a wild state and peacocks, btflth^sMT 
infested by tigers. About a day’s journey to the south of the city of Pegu, the 



BIRMAN EMPIRE. 797 

inhabitants m much molested by wild elephants that occupy in great numbers 
a forest to the north-east. These powerful animals, allured by the early crops 
of rice and sugar cane* make predatory incursions in large troops* and do much 
mischief* devastating a great deal more than they devour. This province seems 
to he the favourite abode of the elephant, and one of his Birman Majesty’s titles 
is * 4 * Lord of the white elephant, and of all the elephants in the world.” 

Pegu having been long subject to the Birman empire of Ava, the history of 
its conquest and other particulars will be found narrated under that head. When 
the Birmans had completed its subjugation, they subdivided it into 32 districts* 
and named it Henzawaddy, which is the Sanscrit name for the whole province. 
Minderajee Praw, the fifth king of the present dynasty, abrogated many severe 
penal laws imposed by predecessors upon the native Peguers ; but a grand 
distinction between the two still continues, Birmans alone being appointed to 
places of trust and power. No brick buildings are allowed in Pegu, except such 
as belong to the king, or are dedicated to their divinity Gaudma. From the 
plenty of teak with which the Pegu forests abound, this province has long been 
famous for ship-building. So early as 1707, the Arabs of Muscat, then a con- 
siderable maritime power, were accustomed to build ships here, some from 3b 
to 50 guns. For the procuring of this valuable timber, a great intercourse sub- 
sists between Pegu and all the British provinces, more especially Bengal, 
where the vessels are almost entirely fabricated of Pegu teak, with the assist- 
ance of the country timber. 

The inhabitants of Pegu appear to have attained civilization at a more early 
period than the Birmans, and though now reduced were formerly a great and 
potent nation. In the early Portugueze histories they are denominated the 
Pandalus of Mon, and they are supposed to have founded the ancient Kala- 
minham empire. The name Kalaminham, mentioned by the Portugueze* is 
probably connected with the Siamese name Mingmon. The Mon language is 
still used by the inhabitants of Pegu, and appears quite original. It is said by 
the Birmans and Siamese to have no affinity to either of their languages. Owing 
to the long and sanguinary wars between the Birmans and Peguers, the greater 
part of this province remains in a state of desolation. In 1812, the 32 districts 
of Pegu were rated at 3000 men for the Arracan war ; but it was found impos- 
sible to collect that number owing to the disturbed and depopulated state of the 
country. The rains in Pegu commence about the middle of May, and during, 
the continuance of the rainy season, it would be impossible to carry on hostilities 
by land ; but the country being everywhere intersected by rivers, an easy con- 
veyance is afforded for troops and military stores.-^fSymes, Leyden, Coming * 
Buchanan, Cos, fyc.) 

Pegu.— T he capital of the preceding province, situated about 90 mites by 



798 AVA.AND THE 

water above the sea-port of Rangoon. Lat. 17* 40' N. long. 96° 18' E. The 
extent of ancient Pegu may he still traced by the ruins of the ditch and wall 
surround it. From these it appears to have been a quadrangle, each side met* 
Suring one mile and a half, the breadth of the ditch was about 60 yards, and the 
depth 10 or 12 feet. When in repair, even in the dry season, the ditch had 
seldom less than four feet of water. The wall was composed of brick badly ce- 
mented with clay mortar about 35 feet thick, with small equidistant bastions 
about 300 yards asunder ; but the whole is now in a most ruinous condition. 
The Birman monarch Alompra, when he acquired possession of the city in 1757, 
rased every building to the ground, and dispersed or led into captivity all the 
inhabitants. The temples or praws, which are very numerous, were the! only 
buildings that escaped his fury, and of these the great pyramid of Shoenmdoo 
has alone been reverenced and kept in repair. About 1790, Minderajee Praw, 
the reigning monarch, to conciliate the natives, issued orders to rebuild Pegu, 
and invited the scattered families of former inhabitants to repeople their deserted 
city. At the same time he ordered the viceroy to quit Rangoon, and make Pegu 
his future residence, and the seat of provincial government. The present inha- 
bitants who have been induced to return, consist chiefly of Rhahaans, or priests, 
the followers of the court, and a few poor Pegu families. The men of business 
continue to reside at Rangoon, and the whole number of inhabitants in 1795 
did not exceed 7000. A great proportion of the former inhabitants are scattered 
over the provinces of Tongho, Martaban, and Talowmeou. 

The city of Pegu in its renovated state is fenced round with a stockade from 
10 to 12 feet high. There is one main street running east and west, crossed at 
right angles by two smaller streets. At each extremity of the principal street, 
there is a gate defended by a wretched piece of ordnance, and a few musqueteers, 
who never post centinels, and are generally asleep in a neighbouring died. The 
streets of Pegu are spacious, and paved with brick, which the ruins of the old 
town plentifully supply. The houses are all made of mats, or of sheathing 
boards, supported on bamboos or posts, and extremely combustible. As a pre- 
caution against fire, at each door there stands a long bamboo with an iron hook 
to pull down the thatch, and there is also another pole adapted to suppress Are 
by pressure. Almost every house has earthen pots filled with water on the roof, 
and a particular class of people, whose business is to prevent and extinguish 
fires, walk the street during the night. 

The object in the city of Pegu that attracts most notice is the temple of Shoe- 
madoo Praw. Shoe in the Birman tongue signifies gold, and madoo appears to 
be a corruption of Mahadeo. This temple is a pyramidical building composed of 
brick and mortar, without excavation or aperture of any sort, octagonal at the 
base, and spiral at the top; each side of the base measuring 168 feet. The 



hoc.] BIRMAN EMPIRE. 799 

great breadth diminishes abruptly in the shape of a speaking trumpet. The 
extreme height of the building above the level of the country is 361 feet. On the 
top » an iron tee or umbrella, 66 feet in circumference, which is gilt, and it was 
formerly the intention of the king to gild the whole building. On the north 
side of the building are three large bells of good workmanship, suspended near 
foe ground, to announce to the spirit of the Gaudma the approach of a suppliant, 
who places his offering, consisting of boiled rice, a plate of sweetmeats, or a 
coco nut fried in oil, on the bench near the foot of the temple. After it is 
offered, the devotee seems indifferent what becomes of it, and it is often devoured 
before his face by crows or dogs, whom he never attempts to disturb during 
their repast. Numberless images of Gaudma lie scattered about. A pious 
Birman who purchases an idol, first procures the ceremony of consecration to be 
performed by the Rhahaans or monks ; he then takes his purchase to whatever 
sacred building is most conveniently situated, and there places it within a kioum, 
or on the open ground before the temple ; nor does he seem to have the least 
anxiety about its future preservation. Some of these idols are made of marble 
found in the neighbourhood of Ummerapoor, and capable of receiving a very fine 
polish ; many are of wood gilded, and a few of silver ; the last, however, are 
not exposed like foe others. Silver and gold are rarely used, except in foe 
composition of household gods. The Rhahaans assert, that the temple of 
Shoemadoo Praw was began 2300 years ago, and built by foe exertions of 
successive ifionarchs. 

About 40 miles from foe town of Pegu are the Galladzet hills, remarkable for 
their pestilential atmosphere. Around foe town a few miserable villages, with 
very little cultivation, shew foe misery of the peasants. Rice, gnapee (a species 
of sprat which, when half putrified, is made into a pickle, and eaten as a season- 
ing with rich), oil expressed from a small grain, and salt, are almost their only 
articles of food. They have cattle but they do not eat foe flesh ; and, what is 
more extraordinary, seldom drink the milk. The cows are diminutive, resembling 
those on foe coast of Coromandel ; but the buffaloes are generally equal to those 
of Hindostan. The only article of consequence manufactured at Pegu ir silk 
and cotton, which the females weave for domestic use. The tluread w weU 
wun. and foe texture of foe web close and strong, and chequered hke terton. 
fhechief officer, in Pegu are foe maywoon (viceroy), foe raywoo^fo* chetey, 
«nd foe seredogee. These officers exercise foe functions of magistrate, «“dhdd 
•enarata courts at their own houses for foe determination of petty surts » but 
tttM^nte’ioriadiction All of impottme. ttUMg .0 


this private jurisdiction 

touted form a^^ah whichrits in foe rhoon, or public hall of jwtice, where 


mvui * - r 1 

■ — as amUhiiaI wtiitih sits 1 Z 



800 AVA AND THE [abracait. 

they hear parties, examine witnesses, and take depositions in writing. These 
documents are sent to the Viceroy, and the judges transmit their opinions along 
with the evidence, which the Viceroy either confirms or rejects, and, in case of 
conviction, orders execution or pardons the criminal.— ( Symet, 8$c.) 

Steiam. — I n the year 1744 the British factory at this place was destroyed by 
the contending parties during the wars of the Birmans and Peguers, which were 
then, as they have always been, carried on with the most savage ferocity. The 
town is situated close to Rangoon, in lat. 16° 49' N. long. 96° 17' E. 

Persaim (or Bassien). — In 1757, a piece of land* opposite to Pei’s aim was 
granted by Alompra to the East India Company, for the purpose of erecting a 
factory. Lat. 16° 50' N. long. 95° E. \ 

Arrac an ( Rakhavg). — A large province of the Birman empire, trhich extends 
along the eastern side of the Bay of Bengal from the river Nauf in Chittagong, 
as far south as Cape Negrais, where the ancient Pegu empire commenced. 
Amman is, in fact, a continuation of the Chittagong plain, bounded on the east 
by a high range of mountains, which, towards the south, approaches so near the 
sea, that though its length may be estimated at 500 miles, in many places the 
breadth from the shore does not exceed 10, and nowhere more than 100 miles. 
From the side of Chittagong, entrance into Amman must be effected by a march 
along the sea beach, interrupted by several channels, which chiefly owe their 
waters to the action of the tide. From the quarter of Negrais and Bassien, 
Amman can only be invaded by water, owing to the numerous rivers that inter- 
sect the country adjacent to the sea. Cheduba, Ramree, Amman, and Sandowy, 
form distinct jurisdictions, and comprehend the whole of the Amman territory. 
The sea coast of this tract is studded with islands of different sizes and 
numerous clusters of rocks, that lie at a small distance from the shore, many of 
whichexhibit a striking .resemblance to the forms of different animals. Behind 
these islands the country, as viewed from the sea, appears agreeably diversified 
with hill and dale; the former covered with trees, and numerous torrents 
descending from the hills flow to the west. By Abul Fazel in 1582, this country 
is described as follows : — “ To the south-east is a large country named Arkung, 
to which the port or bunder of Chittagong properly belongs. Here are plenty 
of elephants, but great scarcity of horses.” 

Altho ug h the position of the Great Amman river is favourable, and report speaks 
well, of its depth of water and safety of entrance, yet no authentic or accurate 
account has as yet been obtained of it, notwithstanding, it is certain that the 
English had a factory here in the 18th century. This situation for a harbour has 
a great many apparent advantages. In the first place, it is a fertile sndweH 
inhabited country, abounding in cattle, goats, fowls, fish, and all kinds of pro- 



are ac an*.] BIRMAN EMPIRE. 801 

vision. It has great store ot timber, similar to that procured in Chittagong, 
which, although not the best for ship building, yet would suit for repairs in time 
of urgent necessity; besides, its vicinity to. Pegu rendering the accumulation of 
teak timber particularly easy. Owing to the position of the Arracan chain of 
hills, there is strong reason to suppose that that valuable wood is also produced 
among them, and might be floated down the Arracan river. But the great ad- 
vantage of this river is its easy communication with Bengal both by. land and by 
sea, so that it could be supplied with stores and provisions in small sloops or 
boats during the north-east monsoon, and from Chittagong there is a road that 
can be travelled *at all seasons of the year, which ensures the practicability of* 
supporting the station, which is only about 70 miles distant from the frontiers of 
Chittagong. The Arracan river, however, has this disadvantage, that during 
the whole of the south-west monsoon, it must be approached with great caution, 
as at a considerable distance from its entrance, both to the northward and south- 
ward, there are many dangerous rocks and sands, the positions of which are not 
well ascertained. Owing also to the strength with which the monsoon blows on 
the eastern shore, and the heavy sea that is thrown in from the great length of 
range ; and, above all, to a current, which during the season has been found to 
follow the course of the prevailing winds, there is reason to believe that a 
ship could not get out of the Arracan river during the whole of the S. W. 
monsoon, but probably many of these dangers might be obviated were the coast 
better known. 

Respecting the interior of Arracan very little is known ; but it is supposed to 
be very similar to that of Chittagong, which it so greatly resembles on the sea 
coast. A considerable intercourse subsists between the maritime tract and the 
Bengal districts, especially Chittagong, into which ponies, elephants’ teeth, wax, 
gold and silver are imported from Arracan, where the Raja or Viceroy for the 
time being is always the chief merchant. In peaceable times, there are from 
40 to 50 boats, of 500 maunds burthen, equipped annually by merchants who 
travel across the country from Ummerapoor, Chagaing, and other cities in the 
Ava dominions, for the Bengal trade. Each boat may be valued at 4000 rupees 
capital, principally in silver bullion. One half of these boats return with red 
betel nut, and this trade is so. systematically established* that they even farm the 
betel nut plantations about Luckipoor. The principal exports from Arracan 
besides bullion are salt, bees wax, elephants’ teeth, and rice ; the last of 
which is produced in great abundance, and the contiguous islands are uncom- 
monly fruitful. Many Birman boats *also navigating during the north-west 
monsoon proceed from Bassien, Rangoon, and Martaban, along the Arracan 
coast, and make an annual voyage to Chittagong,. Dacca, and Calcutta, where 

VOL. ix, S.k 



802 AVA AND THE [arracan. 

they dispose of their cargo, and return with Indian and European commodities. 
Prior to 1764, the Dutch used to purchase rice and slaves here. Latterly, on 
account of the increasing tyranny of the Birman government, this province has 
so greatly deteriorated, that in 1812 it was stated by Colonel Morgan, the com- 
manding officer in Chittagong, that the Birmans had no means of subsisting any 
considerable body of troops within 160 miles of the Chittagong southern 
frontier, as nearly the whole of the cattle had been driven off, maimed, or slaugh- 
tered, by the insurgent Kingberring. The jack, mangoe, betel nut, and other 
fruit trees, had been cut down, and all the grain either destroyed or removed. 

The natives of Arracan Proper call their country *Yekein; the jHindoos of 
Bengal, Rossaun. The latter, who have settled in great numbers in Arracan, are 
denominated by the original inhabitants Kulaw Yekein, or unnaturalized 
Arracaners. The Moguls know this country by the name of Rakhang, and the 
Mahommedans, who have been long settled in the country, call themselves 
Rooinga, or natives of Arracan. The term Mugh is never used by the natives 
of Arracan as applicable to themselves, and its origin has never been properly 
ascertained. The Rakhing is the original language of the inhabitants of Arcacan, 
who adhere to the tenets of Buddha, and is the first of that singular class of 
Indo-Chinese languages which may be properly termed monosyllabic, from the 
mass of their radical words consisting of monosyllables, like the spoken dialect 
of China. Until the last conquest by the Birmans, the tribes of Arracan seem 
for a long period to have preserved their independence; their language is con- 
sequently purer than that of the Birmans, who sustained various revolutions. 
The national name of the Arracan race is Ma-rum-ma, which appears to be only 
a corruption of Maha Vurma ; Vurma being an appellation peculiar to tribes of 
Khetri extraction. A native of Arracan cannot, without extreme difficulty, 
articulate a word which has a consonant for a final. 

Until the Birman conquest, the ancient government of Arracan had never 
been so completely subdued as to acknowledge vassalage to a foreign power 
although the Moguls and Peguers had, at different periods, carried arms into the 
heart of the country. During the reign of Aurengzebe, the unfortunate Sultan 
Shujah, his brother, was basely murdered by the Arracan Raja. The Por- 
tugueze sometimes as allies, at others as open enemies, gained an establishment 
in the country*, which only decayed with the general ruin of their interests in 
Asia. In 1783, the province was conquered after a very feeble resistance by the 
Birmans, and was followed by the surrender of Cheduba, Ramree, and the 
Broken Isles. Many of the Mughs, preferring flight to servitude, took refuge 
among the Dumbuck hills, on the western border of Chittagong, and in the deep 
jungles and forests that skirt that frontier, where they formed themselves into 



abbac an .] BIRMAN EMPIRE. 803 

tribes of independent robbers. Many also settled in the Chittagong and Tiperah 
districts, while others quietly submitted to the yoke. When the conquest of 
Arracan had been thus* completed, it was formed into a province of the Birman 
empire, and a Maywoon or Viceroy deputed to govern it. Sholamboo was the 
first invested with that office, and lOpO Birman soldiers were left to garrison the 
fort* Small parties were likewise distributed in the different towns, and many 
Birmans who had obtained grants of land came with their families and settled 
in the country* thereby consolidating the Birman supremacy. The dethroned 
Raja, Mahasumda, died a natural death, in the first year of his captivity, and 
thus the subjugation of Arracan was accomplished in a few monjths. 

In this state of apparent tranquillity it remained until the year 1811, when 
a native of Arracan, named Kingbemng (King-ber-ring), formed the design of 
embodying his followers and other refugee Mughs to invade his native province, 
which project he actually carried into execution in the month of May 1811. He 
was afterwards joined by many Arracaners, advanced into the interior, and in a 
short time subjected the whole to his authority, with the exception of the 
capital, to which he laid siege. While these achievements were going on, he 
addressed a letter to the British government offering to become their tributary, 
which was rejected ; but in order to induce a supposition of a connexion or 
connivance, he had some of his followers clothed in red. Some time afterward^ 
the Birmans collected forces sufficient to defeat Kingberring and disperse his 
followers, who fled towards Chittagong followed by the Birmans, who pursued 
them across the frontier, but were compelled to return by a British detachment 
sent against them. In 1812, Kingberring again emerged from his concealment, 
and once more attempted the invasion of Arracan, but even with worse success 
than before, being met and defeated by the Birman troops immediately after 
crossing the frontier. During the commotions no quarter was given; every 
suspected Mugh was put to death, and one dispatch mentions the total exter- 
mination of a village containing 2500 persons. On the decease of the Arracan 
Viceroy in 1813, the governors of Rane, Cheduba, and, Sandowy, with some 
other functionaries, were directed by the Ava sovereign to officiate in the pro- 
vince until the arrival of a successor. This took place in 1814, in which year, 
in consequence of the intrusion of some Birman troops within the Chittagong 
boundaries, in pursuit of the insurgent Kingberring, a correspondence ensued 
between the magistrate of that district and the Arracan Viceroy, the commence- 
i ment of whose letter, as a specimen of the Birman official style, is here inserted j — 
“ My sovereign is of high destiny ; he possesses gold, diamonds, and jewels, and 
the white elephant and the whole world. He possesses great resolution and 
great power ; he possesses the spear ; he is king over 100 kings, Ace. &c.” The 

fix 2 



804 AVA AND THE [arracan, 

impunity granted on these occasions to the Birmans is entirely to be ascribed to 
the moderation and forbearance of the British government, which made every 
exertion and incurred a heavy expenditure by their endeavours to expel the 
refugee Mughs. The task, however, was difficult, owing to the physical nature 
of the country and its pestilential atmosphere, combined with the inveterate 
hatred which these fugitives, who are an athletic hard-working race, bear to the 
whole Birman nation, and the strong hopes they still entertain of restoring their 
country to its former independence. — ( Symes , Public MS . Documents , Morgan , 
Gos, Leyden , F. Buchanan , Towers, S$c.) 

Arracan. — The capital of the Arracan province, situated about two days’ 
journey from the mouth of the river of the same name. Lat. 29° 40' N. 
long. 93° 5' E. In 1812, the town of Arracan was described to Colonel (Morgan 
by his Mugh Moonshees, as being built all around the fort except on th^ north- 
east face, where a large jeel or shallow lake approaches it. According\to the 
same authorities, the fort is built in the form of an irregular square, and has three 
walls of hard stone, one within the other, in height about 36 feet, and 12 thick 
at the bottom, tapering to 5 at the top, and extending from height to height over 
even spots of ground ; but the whole of these walls are without ditches. Four 
hills or elevations approach the walls of the fort ; the largest and highest is 
called Rooce Tunge ; the second in height, Harree-tunge ; the third, Pointee- 
tunge ; and the fourth. Baboo- tunge ; the whole of which command the interior 
of the fort, which might be easily reduced by 2000 sepoys with a small battering 
train. At the mouth of the Oorotung, or Great Arracan river, there is said to 
be no bar, and it is reported to be a mile broad in the dry season ; the depth 
from the sea up to Jehauz ghaut from 6 to 18 fathoms, and there are said to be 
no shoals capable of hindering the ascent of large ships with the flood tides. 
A light boat requires two days to row up from the mouth of the river to 
Jehauz ghaut. 

This town and fort were taken by the Birmans in 1783, after a feeble resist- 
ance. They found a considerable booty ; but on nothing was a higher value 
placed than an image of Gaudma (the Gautama of the Hindoos) made of brass 
and highly burnished. The figure is about ten feet high, in a sitting posture, 
with the legs crossed and feet inverted, the left hand resting on the lap, the 
right pendent. This image is believed to be the original resemblance of the 
Reeshee (saint) taken from life, and it is so highly venerated, that pilgrims have 
for centuries been accustomed to come from the remotest countries, where the 
supremacy of Gaudma is acknowledged, to pay their devotions at the feet of his 
brazen representative. There are also five images of Racshyas (the demons of 
the Hindoos) of the same metal, and of gigantic stature, the guardians of the 



cheduba isle.] BIRMAN EMPIRE. 805 

sanctuary. A singular piece of ordnance of most enormous dimensions was also 
found, composed of huge bars of iron beaten into form. This ponderous cannon 
measured 30 feet in length, 2| in diameter at the mouth, and 10 inches in the 
calibre. It was transported by the Birmans to Ummerapoor by water, as a 
military trophy; and Gaudma, with his infernal guards, were in like manner 
conveyed to the capital with much pomp and superstitious parade. — ( Symes, 
Morgan , 8$c.) 

Cheduba Isle. — An island in the Bay of Bengal, lying off the coast of 
Arracan, about one degree and a half to the southward of the Great Arracau 
river. It is the most westerly of a cluster of islands, and is of a moderate 
height, with several humjnocks on it. This island lies but a few miles from the 
main land, and within it there is said to be a good harbour ; but it has the same 
disadvantage of a lee shore that the Arracan river has. Both Cheduba and the 
more pastern islands are inhabited, and in peaceable times produce such quan- 
tities of rice, that ships of any burthen may load that article here. The channel 
between this island and the main is annually navigated by trading boats, but it 
does not afford a safe passage for large shipping. It is governed by a Chekey, 
or Lieutenant, deputed by the Birman government, who was expelled in 1810 
by the Arracan insurgents, but it was subsequently recaptured after a war-boat 
battle, in which the Birmans were victorious.— ( Symes , Elmore , #c. <§*c. J 




INDEX 


In the following Index, the name of the Province which comprehends any Town 
or District is placed within a parenthesis in Italics. The capital letter P. 
signifies Province ; D. District ; T. Town ; and R. River. Thp Volume and 
Page are also noted. 

A. Alighur T. {Agra) i, 402. Anopshehr {Agra) i. 406. 

Allahabad P. i. 292. Antery {Agra) i. 386. 

Abdulpoor ( Bceder ) ii. 119. Allahabad D. i. 296. Aounla ( Delhi) i. 440. 

Aboo {Ajmccr) i. 654. Allahabad T. i. 299. Appoli {Bengal) i. 231. 

Acberpoor {Oude) i. 352. Alland {Becder) ii. 119. Arabs. Sec Khandesh P. ii. 95. 

Acberpoor {Agra) i. 379. Allambady {Mysore) ii. 381. Aracote {Mooltan) i. 571. 

Acesines R. See Chinaub. Allumparva (Carnatic) ii. 439. Arail {Allahabad) i. 301. 

Adam’s Peak {Ceylon) ii. 514. Allymohun (Maluah) i. 752. Arail {Agra) i. 374. 

Adanad {Malabar) ii. 296. Allygunge {Bengal) i. 237. Aravacourchy (Coimbatoor) ii. 390. 

Adilabad {Kkandesh) ii. 100. Almora (Kumuon) ii. 656. Arcot D. Northern {Carnatic) ii 

Adjyghur {Allahabad) i. 329. Aloor {Carnatic) ii. 426. 429. 

Adoni D. {Balaghaut) ii. 334. Alumchu n (Allahabad) i. 310. Arcot D. Southern {Carnatic) ii. 

Adoni T. (Balaghaut) ii. 334. Alvar {Agra) i. 394. 436. 

Adriampatam {Carnatic) ii. 459. Alvarcoil {Carnatic) ii. 483. Arcot T. {Carnatic) ii. 430. 

Afghanistan, ii. 535. Amain {Agra) i. 386. Ardinghy {Carnatic) ii. 462. 

Aghadeep {Bengal) i. 147. Amaravati R. {Mysore) ii. 386. Argha (Nepaul) ii. 700. 

Agra P. l. 359. Ambahghaut (Bejapoor) ii. 230. Argaum (Berar) ii. 113. 

Agra D. i. 362. Ambahlah {Delhi) i. 465. Ariancoopan {Carnatic) ii. 442. 

Agra T. i. 364. Amber {Ajmeer) i. 541. Arieloor {Carnatic) ii. 465 

Ahmedabad {Gujerat) i. 695. Amboor {Carnatic) ii. 435. Arim (Gundwana) ii. 29. 

Ahmednuggur {Gujerat) i. 679. Ambora (Gundxvana) ii. 27. Arinkil. See Warangol. 

Abmednuggur ( Aurungabad ) ii. Amerkote {Ajmeer) i. 554. Arippo {Ceylon) ii. 519. 

145. Amjerah (Malxoah) i. 752. Arki (Sutuleje) i. 625. 

Ahmednuggur D. {Aurungabad) Ammalapoor (Circa rs) ii. 82. Armeattie {Oude) i. 352. 

ii. 179. Amran (Gujerat) i. 655. Armegon (Carnatic) ii. 428. 

Ahmedpoor {Orissa) ii. 50. Amrawutty (Berar) ii. 115. Arnee ( Carnatic ) ii. 435, 

Ahmood (Gyjerat) i. 710. Amritsir ( Lahore ) i. 495. Arracan P. ( Ava ) ii. 80d, 

Ahmuddah ( Allahabad ) i. 330. Anaje ( Mysore ) ii. 369. Arracan T. (Ava) ii. 804. 

Aibecca (Tramncore) ii. 321. Anam (Oude) i. 349. Arrah ( Bahar ) i. 280. 

Ajmeer,, or Rajpootana, P. i. 514. Andapoorghur ( Orissa ) ii. 35. Arratum (Gujerat) i. 678. 

Ajmeer, T. i. 520. Andia (Malmk) i. 758. Arrysir (dutch) i. 602. 

Ajuntee (Berar) ii. 113. Angstoo (Nepaul) ii. 704. Arval (Bahar) i. 268. 

Akoat (Berar) ii. 113. Ammalaya (Coimbatoor) ii. 389. Ashta ( Malzoah ) i. 754. 

Akolab (Berar) ii. 114. AniarD. (Catch) i. 598. Ashta ( Bejapoor ) ii. 232. 

Akogur (Agra) i. 392. Anjar T, (Catch) i. 599. Aseergbur (Khandesh) ii, 102. 

Akrauny (Khandesh) ii. 103. Anjediva (Canara) ii. 262. Assam, ii. 740. 

Akulcotta, D. and T. (Beeder) Anjengo (Travancore) ii. 321. Assodnagur D. (Byapoor) ii, 230. 

if, 120. Anjenwell (Btjapoor) ii. 214. Asseree ( Aurungabad) ii. 150. 

Alakananda R. ii. 640. Ankapilly (Circars) ii. 75. Assewan (Oude) i. 349* 

AUbunder (Mooltan) i. 579. Ankosgerry (Mysore) ii. 375. Assye (Berar) ii. lift. 

Aliffaum (Berar) ti* U4. Amsmoody (Bejapoor) ii. 234. Atcnera (Bejapoor) ii 216* 

(Agra) i 401. Annieul (Mysore) ii. 375. Attair (Agra) 1 386* 



INDEX. 


808 


Attara ( Allahabad ) i. 327. 
Attaveesee (Gujerat) i. 724. 
Attersoomba ( Gujerat ) i. 686. 
Attock (Lahore) i. 488. 

Attyah ( Bengal ) i. 187. 

Augur I). ( Lahore ) i. 4,91. 

Auggur ( Malwah ) i. 754. 

Aul (Orissa) ii. 46. 

Aumnicr (Gundwana) ii. 27. 
Aurangabad P. ii. 143. 
Aurungabad T. ii. 144. 

Autghur (Orissa) ii. 48. 

Autoor (Hyderabad) ii. 137. 

Ava, or The Birman Empire, ii. 
767. 

Ava T. ii. 791. 

Azimnagur D. (Bejapoor) ii. 240. 
Azemgkur (Allahabad) i. 315. 
Azmerigunge (Bengal) i. 197. 

B. 

Baad (Agra) i. 369- 
Babreawar D. (Gujerat) i. 669. 
Backar D. and T. (Mooltan) i. 
560. 

Backergunge D. (Bengal) i. 132. 
Backergunge T. ( Bengal ) i. 133. 
Badaomy ( Bejapoor ) ii. 240. 
Badarwal (Lahore) i. 498. 
Badrachellum (Gundwana) ii. 30. 
Badrycazram. See Sources of the 
Ganges. 

Bagaroo (Ajmeer) i. 542. 

Baghul (Sutuleje) ii. 624. 

Baghput (Delhi) i. 424. 

Baglana D. (Aurungabad) ii. 176. 
Bahadurpoor (Gujerat) i. 705. 
Bahadurpoor (Gnjerat) i. 686. 
BabarP. i. 239. 

Bahar D. (Bahar) i. 254. 

Baliar T. (Bahar) i. 263. 
Babawulpoor D. (Mooltan) i. 558. 
Bahdoriah (Agra) i. 387. 
Baidyanath Temple ( Bengal ) i. 
160. 

Bailuru (Mysore) ii. 371. 

Baitool (Gundwana) ii. 27. 
JBajetpoor (Bengal) i. 190. 
Balaghaut P. ii. 323. 

Balamgur (Delhi) i. 424. 
Balasinore (Gujerat) i. 689. 
Balasorc (Orissa) ii. 37. 

Balij (Gujerat) i. 694. 

Balky ( Birder) ii. 119. 

Ballapoor (Berar) ii. 114. 
Balliaghaut (Bengal) i. 64. 
Baloocbistan, ii. 526. 

Balumba (Gtyerat) i. 651. 
Bambarah ( Mooltan ) i. 576. 
Bameeny ltlt (Bengal) i. 176. 
Bamoo (Avaj ii. 792. 


Bampoor ( Malwah ) i. 753. 
Bampoora (Malwah) i. 730. 
Bamragbur (Orissa) ii. 48. 

Banass R. i. 622. 

Batiaganapilly (Balaghaut) ii. 341. 
Banaul (Cashmere) i. 513. 
Bancapoor D. (Bejapoor) ii. 237. 
Bancapoor T. (Bejapoor) ii. 237. 
BAnda (Allahabad) i. 324. 
Baticoot. See Fort Victoria, ii. 
212 . 

Bandoogur (Gundwana) ii. 15. 
Bangalore (Mysore) ii. 375. 
Bankee (Orissa) ii. 49. 
Baukybazar (Bengal) i. 64. 
Banswara (Gujerat) i. 680. 

Bar (Bahar) i. 268. 

Baraliat (Gurwal) ii. 641. 
Baraitche D. (Oude) i. 352. 
Baraitche T. (Oude) i. 352. 
Baroelore (Canard) ii. 264. 

Bareily D. (Delhi) i. 432. 

Bareily T. ( Delhi) i. 437. 
Barnagore (Bengal) i. 64. 

Baroda (Gujerat) i. 698. 

Barooly Ghaut (Berar) ii. 114. 
Barrackpoor, (Bengal) i. 64. 
Barragurry (Nepaul) ii. 711. 
Bnrabuttee (Orissa) ii. 45. 
Barramahal D. (Salem) ii. 395. 
Barreah (Gujerat) i. 685. 

Baree (Agra) i. 387. 

Barwali ( A llahabad ) i. 33 1 . 
Banvallah (Delhi) i. 461. 
Banvarrah (Ajmeer) i. 542. 

Bary (Oude) i. 349. 

Bassein (Aurungabad) H. 150. 
Basouda ( Malwah ) i. 735. 

Bate Isle (Gujerat) i. 661. 
Baticalo (Ceylon) ii. 522. 

Batinda (Aj.neer) i,526. 

Battallah (Lahore) i. 495. 
Battecolla (Canara) ii. 264. 
Bauleah (Bengal) i. 199. 

Baug (Malwah) i. 754. 

Baugree (Bengal) i. 152. 
Bauntwah (Gujerat) i. 669. 
Baumgunga R. ii. 13. 

Baupcttah (Circars) ii. 93. 
Baypoor (Malabar) ii. 295. 

Beacul (Malabar) ii. 287. 

Bedagur ( Gundwana ) ii. 25. 
Bednore D. (Mysore) ii. 365. 
Bednore T. (Mysore) ii. 366. 
Beechiaco (Nepaul) ii. 709. 
Beechipoor (Mooltan) i. 578. 
Reeder P. ii. 118. 

Seeder D. ii. 120. 

BeederT. ii. 119. 

Beejapoor (Gujerat) L 677* 

Bee] note (Ajmeer) i. 531. 

Beema R. ii. 145, 


Beenishehr. SreMalebura. 

Beerat (Agra) i. 400. 

Beeranah ( Ajmeer ) i. 525. 
Beergur (Ajmeer) i. 525. 

Begum Somroo. See SeercRmna. 
Behduroo D. (Lahore) i. 500. 
Bejagbur D. ( Khandesh ) ii. 103. 
Bejagur (Khandesh) ii. 103. 
Bejapoor P. ii. 203. 

Bejapoor T. ii. 207. - 
Bejapoor D. ii. 232. 

Bcjawer ( Allahabad ) ii. 333. 
Bejighur (Agra) i. 388. 

Belah ( Agra) i, 374. 

Belaspoor ( Delhi) ,ii. 445. 
Btlaspoor (Sutuleje) ii. 616, 
Belemchcroo ( Balaghaut) ii. 339. 
Belgaum (Circars) ii. 75. 

Belgram (Oude) i. 354'. 

Belinda (Allahabad) i. 302. 
Bellary (Allahabad) i. 430. 
Bellary D. (Balaghaut) ii, 331. 
Bellary T. (Balaghaut) ii. 331. 
Bcllegaum (Ceylon) ii. 521. 
Bellumconda (drears) ii. 92. 
Beinber {Lahore) i. 493. 

Benares D. (Allahabad) i. 302. 
Benares T. (Allahabad) i. 305. 
Bcndikce (Allahabad) i. 302. 
Bengal P. i. 1. 

Bengermow (Oude) i. 34!). 
Bensrode (Malwah) i. 754. 
Bentotte (Ceylon) ii. 520. 

I-Berar P. ii. 1 06. 

Bcreng (Cashmere) i. 513. 
Berliampoor (Bengal) i. 166, 
Bernagur (Bengal) i. 165. 
Bernaver (Delhi) i, 425. 

Berodeli (Agra) i. 400. 

Bessely Ghaut ( Mysore ) ii. 367 
Betaisor (Ugra) i. 369. 

Bettiah (Bahar) i. 279. 
Bettooriah (Bengal) i. 199. 
Betwah R. i. 732. 

Bcyah, or Hyphasis R. i. 485. 
Beylah (Cutck) i. 603. 

Beyhar (Bengal) i. 220. 

Beylah (Aurungabad) ii. 181. 
Beykaneer. See Brcanere. 
Beytulbany (Berar) iL 115. 
Bezoara ( Circars ) ii. 87. 
Bhadrinath (Gurteal) ii; 647. 
Bhagesur ( Kvmaou ) ii. 656* 
Bhagwuntgur ( Ajmeer ) i. 542. 
Bhairava Math ( Gurwal ) ii. 645. 
Bhanpoor (Orissa) ii. 56. 

Bhattia (Gujerat) i. 664. 

Bhatts, Set Gujerat, i. 604. 
Bhatneer (Ajmeer) i. 526. 
BbattieaD. (Ajmeer) i. 522. 
Bbatgong (Nepaul), ii. 691. 
Bhavam R. ii 366. 



INDEX. 


809 


Bbawar ( 
Bheels.Bt 


(Qombatoor) ii. 390. Roppdee D. C Ajmeer) i. 545. 
P*f*Me) ii 631. Boetidee. fc (Ajmeer) i. 546. 

frMafwah and Khandesji. loorhana (Delhi) i. 454. 
sd (Mtpouiy il 7 10. Joorghaut (Aurangabad) ii.LSi. 
tod T. (Aurangabad) Ii Boorhanpoor (Khandcsh) ii. 100. 
178. looshepgur ( Byapoor ) ii. 226. 

Shedrat (Malwah) i. 733. lomutbiBengal) i. 136. 

Bhilarah (jjmetr) i. 547. Joqtan P. ii. 728. 

Bhind (Agra) i. 386. Jopaul (jMalwah) i. 755. 

Bhirkot (Nepaul) ii. 697. lour^singby ( Circars ) ii, 71. 

Bhira (J>akore) i. 493. iowai (Bengal) i. 188. 

Bhirowal (Lahore) i. 498. Brahmaputra R, i. 13. 

Bhojipoor (Oude) L353. Irodah (Malwah) i. 732. 

Bhooj (Catch) i. 595. roach D. (Gujerat) i. 705. 

Bhooteaa. See Bhutant. iroach T. (Gvjerat) i 708. 

Bhonsla D. (Beiapoor) ii. 216, * luboora (Mooltan) i. 579. 
Bbowanipoor (Bengal) i. 227. “uchone (Allahabad) i. 328. 
Bbowaoy (Delhi) i. 460. uckar (Lahore) i. 493. 

Bhow Begum. See Fyxabad. Juckrah (Bahar) i. 273. 


Bhurtpoor (Agra) i. 388. 
Bhutant B. (Kumaon) ii. 658. 
Biana (Agra) i. 393. 

Bfcanere D. (Ajmeer) i. 526. 
Bicanere T. (Ajmeer) i. 528. 
Bidjeeghur (Allahabad) i. 313. 
Bijeyghiir (Agra) i. 402. 

Bigh (Bahar) i. 285. 

Bijanagur (Bejapoor) ii. 235. 
Biinee 1>. (Adjacent to Assam) 


Buddoo (Lahore) i. 494. 
Buddruck (Orissa) ii. 38. 
Budgcbudge (Bengal) i. 144. 
Budnapoor (Aurangabad) ii. 1 78. 
Budra R. ii. 365. 

Bughat (Sutuleje) ii. 623. 

Buiana ( Gujerat ) i. 634. 
Buksouah (Allahabad) i. 334. 


i r) i. 285. Buksouah (Allahabad) i. 334. 

(Bejapoor) ii. 235. Bulendshehr (Delhi) i. 455. 
(Adjacent to Assam) ii. Bulluah (Oude) i. 357. 

Bullum I). (Mysore) ii. 370. 


Bijnee T. (Adjacent to Assam) ii, Bulra (Malwah) i. 754. 


755. 

Bikkur (Allahabad) i. 333. 


Bulrampoor (Oude) i. 352. 
Bulsaur (Gujerat) i. 723. 


Billounjah D. (Gundwana) ii. 15. Bulsun (Sutuleje) ii. 627. 


Billawul (Gujerat) i. 670. 

Bilsah (Malwah) i. 757. 
Bimlipatam (Circars) ii. 78. 
Bindrabund (Agra) i. 368. 
Birboom D. (Bengal) i. 157. 
Bisramghaut (AUahabad) i. 328. 
BUiolee (Lahore) i. 494. 

Bissolie (Delhi) i. 439. 
Biwunpoor (Bengal) i 157. 
Biswah (0«<fe) i. 353. 

Boad (i Orissa ) ii. 59. 

1 Bobilee (Circars) ii. 75. 

Boggah (Bahar) i 279. 
Bogariah (Bahar) i. 251. 
Boghela (Gundwana) U. 14. 
BogUpoor D. (Bahar) I. 245. 
ItagUpMir T. (Bahar) i 250. 
Bogwangola (Bengal) i. 165, 
BoSinagur(B<W) i, 190. 


Bundelcund D. (Allahabad) i. 317. 
Bundermalanca (Circars) ii. 83. 
Btmjaree Ghaut (Malwah) ii. 23. 
Buntwalla (Canara) ii. 270. 
Burdee (Gundwana) ii. 14. 
Burdwau D. (Bengal) i. 153. 
Burdwan T. (Bengal) i. 157. 
Burgundah (Hyderabad) ii. 138. 
Burnuggur (Gujerat) i. 679. 
Burrishol (Bengal) i. 133. 
Burruah (Orissa) ii. 45. 

Burseah (Malwah) i. 757. 
Burtapoor (Oude) i. 353. 

Burudda D. (I Gujerat ) i. 664. 
Burwah (Bahar) i. 290. 

Busseah (Bahar) i. 291. 

Bu^saher (Sutuleje) ii. 620. 
Bustar (Gundwana) ii. 29, 

Bustee (Oude) i. 357. 


lydell (Bengal) i. 226. 
lygontmrry- (Bengal) i. 190. 
tyoram (Hyderabad) ii. 138. 
iyfaghur (Gundwana) ii. 29. 
lyramghaut (Oude) i. 349. 


abu.UP. (Afghanistan) ii. 552. 
abul T. (Afghanistan) ii. 554. 
achar (Adjacent to Assam) ii. 763. 
adutinada (Malabar) ii. 293. 
)ahlore I>. (Sutuleje) ii. 615. 

Kailas Mountains (Tibet) ii. 588 
)ahqpre ( Lahore ) i. 496. 

Jalberga (Beeder) ii. 119. 

Calcutta (Bengal) i. 48. 
ialicoulan (Travancore) ii. 321. 
Jalicut 1>. (Malabar) ii. 294, 
alicutT. (Malabar) U. 295. 
alicoote (Circars) ii. 69. ‘ 
alingapatam (Circars) ii. 73. 
"allacoil (Carnatic) ii. 474. 
'allacaud (Carnatic) ii. 484. 
lalliauee P. ( Aurungabad ) ii. 150. 
allianee T. (Aurungabad) ii. 150. 
alliany D. and T. (Beeder) ii. 
120 . 

2alliandroog ( Balaghaut) ii. 335. 
yRllinjer (AUahabad) i. 327. 
'alowr. See Cahlore, ii. 615. 
-alpee. See Kalpee, i. 379. 
^alpenteen (Ceylon) ii. 519. 

'altura (Ceylon) ii. 520. 

^alygong Hills (Gundwana) ii. 26. 
Calymere Point ( Carnatic ) ii. 459, 
Cambay (Gujerat) i. 686. 

Cambay, Gulf qf (Gujerat) i. 688. 
Camlapoor (Bathghaui) ii. 334. 
Camroop D. (Assam) 749. 
Camupaud (Circars) ii. 92. 
Cananore (Malabar) ii. 29#. 
Canara P. ii. 25 1 . 

anpra North, ii 258. 

Canara South, ii. 264. 

ancoupa (Mysore) ii. 369. 
Candfaar (Ajmeer) l. 542. 

Candbar (Beeder) ii. 120. 


Bombay Mo {Ammgabai) ii 155 Butool P. (Oude) i. 357, 
B<wu*u»cpolhun (Carnatic) ii. 432, Buxar (Bahar) l 280. 
Bo»«*aii (jPsaara) 11. 261, iBuxedwur (Bootan) ii. 736, 
RoagbaarJ). and T. tftydmM Buxipoor (Bengal) 1 199. 

Buxygunj* S31. 


Candcyle (Ceylon) ii. 524. 

Candy P. (Ceylon) ii. 507. 

Candy T. (Ceylon) 3. 513. 

Cane, or Keane, B. See Ken R. 
i. 295. 

Cannia (Ceylon) ji.524. 

Canoon (Agra)C 40 r. . 

Canroody ft H. 16. 

Cantklbany (Baotafi ii.m 
CarampoQMg (Qindrs) ii. 94* 



810 

Caramnassa R. i, 295* 

Canaria Isle (Aurungabad) ii. 174. 
Carcufla ( Canara ) ii. 268. 

Carli (Aurungabad) ii. 198. 
Camaprayaga (Gurwal) ii. 643. 
Carnatic r. ii. 399. 

Caracal ( Bahar ) i. 279. 

Caroor ( Coimbatoor ) ii. 390. 

Carrar ( Bejapoor ) ii. 230. 
Camraja ( Berar ) ii. 115. 
Cnrtinaad. See Cadutinada, ii. 
293. 

Carwar ( Canara ) ii. 262. 

Cashmere P. i. 504. 

Cashmere T. i. 5 1 1 . 

Catmandoo ( Nepaul ) ii. 690. 
Cattywar D. (Gujerat) i. 643. 
Cangmarry (Bengal) i. 191. 
Caulahandy (Oiissa) ii. 45. 
CaunpoorD. (Allahabad) i. 334. 
Caunpoor T. (Allahabad) i. 335. 
Cavai ( Malabar ) ii. 287. 

Cavery R. (Mysore) ii. 364. 
Caverypauk ( Carnatic ) ii. 435. 
Caverypatnam (Salem) ii. 397. 
Caveryporum (Coimbatoor) ii. 392. 
Ceded Districts. See Balaghaut, ii. 
323. 

Ceylonjsle, ii. 485. 

Chacky ( Bahar) i. 252. 

Chagaing (Ava) ii. 792. 

Chagee ( Balaghaut) 334. 

Chaloo (Tibet) ii. 586. 

Chalchkaun D. (Mooltan) i. 579. 
Cbamalari (TOef) ii. 586. 
Ckamargoonda (Aurungabad) ii. 
180. 

CbambaD. (Lahore) i. 500. 
Champanagur (Bahar) i. 251. 
Chanda D. (Gundwana) ii. 27. 
Chanda T. ( Gundwana ) ii. 28. 
Cbandahnee (Lahore) i. 499. 
Chandercona (Bengal) i. 142. 
Chandernagore (Bengal) i. 61. 
Chandode (Gmerat) i. 712. 
Chandookee ( Mooltan ) i. 570. 
Chandore (Khandesh) ii. 99. 
Chandragiri (Malabar) ii. 287- 
Chandergherry (Carnatic) ii. 431. 
Chandpoor (Bengal) i. 179. 
Cbandpoor (Delhi) i. 446. 
Chanderec D. (Malwah) i. 733. 
Chanderee T. ( Malwah ) i. 733. 
Changanva (Salem) ii. 397. 
Charons. See Gujerat. 

Charwah (Khandesh) ii. 105. 
Chatsoo (Ajmeer) i. 541. 
t^hattergbur (Agra) i. 386. 
Chatna (Bahar) i. 287. 
Cbatterpoor (Allahabad) i. 327. 
Chattoor (Carnatic) ii. 472. 


INDEX. 

Chattra (Nepaul) ii. 749. 

Chaukna ( Aurungabad ) ii. 199s 
Chaunchra (Malwah) 1. 735. 
Chauker D. (Mqoltan) i. 571. 
Chayenpoor D. and T. (Nepaul) 
ii. 714. 

Cheduba Isle (Ava) ii. 805, 
Cbeepaneer (Malwah) i. 755. 
Cheesapany (Nepaul) ii. 711. 
Cheetul (Gujerat) i. 647. 
Cheriaghaut (Nepaul) ii. 710. 
Cherical D. (Malabar) ii. 290. 
Cherooter D. (Gujerat) i. 686. 
Chetrole (Cvtch) i. 602. 

Cliicacole. See Cicacole, ii. 71. 
Chica Nayakana Hullv (Mysore) 
ii. 371. 

Chica Balapoor (Mysore) ii. 373. 
Chicaraogloor (Mysore) ii. 367. 
Chichacotta (Bootan) ii. 738. 
Chichcrowly (Delhi) i. 464. 
Chienpoor (Khandesh) ii. 105. 
Chickoory (Bejapoor) ii. 241. 
Chilaw (Ceylon) ii. 519. 

Chbilli (Nepaul) ii. 701, 

Chilka Lake ( Circars ) ii. 68. 
Cbilkauree (Gujerat) i. 680. 
Chilmarry ( Bengal ) i . 2 1 1 . 
Chiilambaram (Carnatic) ii. 446. 
Chinapatam (Mysore) ii. 379. 
Chinaub, or Acesines R. i. 483. 
Chinchoor (Aurungabad) ii. 199. 
Clungleput D. ( Carnatic ) ii. 446. 
Chingieput T. (Carnatic) ii. 447. 
Chinachin (Nepaul) ii. 704. 
Chinnoor (Becdcr) ii. 121. 
Cbinsura (Bengal) i. 62. 
jChinrayapatam ( Mysore ) ii. 381. 
Chitlong ( Nepaul ) ii. 692. 

Chitore D. and T. (Ajmeer) i. 551 . 
Chittagong D. (Bengal) i. 167. 
Cbittapet (Carnatic) ii. 438. 
Chittledroog ( Mysore ) ii. 369. 
Chittoor (Carnatic) ii. 432. 

Chittra (Bahar) i. 284, 

Chitway (Malabar) ii. 298. 
Chobyneemgaon ( Aurungabad ) ii. 
180. 

Cbogdab ( Bengal ) i. 146. 
Chokeeghur (Malwah) i. 7 55. 
Cboomeas (Bengal) i. 176. 
Chooroo (Ajmeer) i. 529. 

Cboprab (Khandesh) ii. 101. 
Cboteesghur D. (Gundwana) ii. 22. 
Choul (Aurungabad) ii. 151. 
Chouraghur (Gundwana) ii. 26. 
Cbowera (Gujerat) i. 649. 

Cbpwal D. (Gujerat) i. 676, 
CHuckowal (Lahore) i. 490. 

Cbuka (Bootan) U. 737. 

Chuch 0, (Lahore) i. 487. 


Chumbul R. i 362. 

Cbumpaneer 0, (Gqjerat) i, 680. 
Chumpaneer T. (Gtjerat) i. 680. 
Chump arum. See §anm D. 
Chumpwut (Kumaon) ii. 656. 
Chnnar (Allahabad) i. 312. 
Chundail 0. (Gundwana) ii. 13. 
Cliundowsy (Delhi) i. 439. 
Chupparah (Gundwana) ii, 25, 
Chuppra (Malwah) "i, 733. 

Chuprah (Bahar) i. 278. 
Chutanagpoor (Bahar) i. 288. 
Chynpoorbaree (Malwah) L 75 5. 
Cicacole 0. (Circars) ii. 7l. 
Cicacole T. (Cirtars) ii. 72. 

CirCars Northern P. iij 60. 
Cloorgowan (Delhi) i. 460. 

Cochin P. ii. 302. \ 

Cochin T. ii. 306. \ 

Cockley (Ceylon) ii. 524. 

Coilconda 0. andT. (Hyderabad) 
ii. 141. \ 

Coille (Bahar) i. 273. 

Coilere Pettab (Carnatic) ii. 483. 
Coimbatoor P. ii. 384. 

Coimbatoor T. ii. 386. 

Colaba Isle (Aurungabad) ii. 175. 
Colacaul. See Collegal Pettab. 
Colair Lake ( Circars ) ii. 86. 
Colangodu (Malabar) ii. 297. 
Colapoor D. (Bejapoor) ii. 224. 
Colapoor T. (Bejapoor) ii. 225. 
Colar0. (Mysore) ii. 373. 

ColarT. ( Mysore ) ii|374. 

Colastry ( Carnatic ) n. 426. 

Colesby ( Trarancore ) ii. 322. 
Colgong (Bahar) i. 254. 

Colinda (Bengal) i. 180. 

Collara6s (Agra) i. 382. 

Collegal rettah ( Coimbatoor ) ii. 
393. 

Colour (Carnatic) ii. 428. 

Coleroon R. ii. 457. 

Columbo (Ceylon) ii. 504. 
Combooconum (Carnatic) ii. 457. 
Combher (Agra) i. 393, 
Comercolly (Bengal) i. 199. 
CemUia (Bengal) i. 179. 

Comorin Cape ( Carnatic ) ii. 464. 
Compta (Canara) ii. 263. 

Conarah ( Circars ) ii. 78. 
Concan0. (Bejapoor) ii. 210. 
Conchon (Bengal) i. 231. 
Condatchy, Bay of (Ceylon) ii, 517. 
Condapilty 0. (Circars), ii. 86. 
CondapOly T. (Circarsj U, 86. 
Condaver (Circars) ii. 92. 
Coniacombry (Carnatic) 11484. 
Conkair (Gundwana) ii. 28. 
ConkiR .(Bengal) 1.237, 
Conjeverun (Carnatic) ii. 448. 



Contanagur (Bengal) i 227. 
Coocli Baliar 0. (Bengal) i 214. 
Coolies. See Gujerat. 

CooUsgur (Carnatic) ii. 431. 
Cooloo ( Lahore ) l 502. 

Cooloo (Orissa) l|. 59. 

Coorg 0. ( Malabar ) ii. 287. 
Coorhut (Allahabad) i. 317. 
Cooserah (Bahar) i. 264. 

Copaul ( Bejapoor ) ii. 236. 
Corachie ( Mooltan ) i. 576. 
Coringa ( Circars ) ii. 81. 
Coromandel Coast, ii. 405. 
Corregaum (Aurangabad) ii. 182. 
Corsee (Bejapoor) ii. 241. 

Cosi R. (Bengal) i. 236. • 

Cospoor (Adjacent to Assam) ii.765. 
Cosseahs. See Silhet. 

Cossimbazar (Bengal) i. 166. 
Cosaimcotta (Circars) ii. 75. 
Cotapoot (Malabar) ii. 293. 
Cottapatnam (Carnatic) ii. 473. 
CotelaU (Agra) i. 400. 

Cotiote (Malabar) ii. 291. 
Cottacotta (Balaghaut) ii. 344. 
Cottee (Bahar) i. 267- 
Coulan (Traxancore) ii. 321. 
Courcbicr (Carnatic) ii. 426. 
Covdong (Carnatic) ii. 450. 
Cowdully (Salem) ii, 396. 
Cowishar (Nepaul) ii. 704. 

Cowl, or Coel, (Agra) i, 402. 
Cowl 0urga (Mysore) ii. 366. 
Coxe’s Bazar (Bengal) i. 174. 
Cranganore (Cochin) ii. 307. 
Cuddapah 0. (Balaghaut) ii. 341. 
Cuddapah T. (Balaghaut) ii. 342. 
Cudalore (Carnatic) ii. 444. 
Cudd$n (Mooltan) i. 578. 

Cudiwa (Allahabad) i. 302. 
Cullatoor (Carnatic) ii. 483. 
Culloor (Hyderabad)J\\. 138. 
Cnlna (Bengal) i. 136. 

Culna (Bengal) i. 157. 

Culpee (Bengal) i. 140. 

Cumly (Canara) ii. 270. 
Cummumait 0. and T. ( Hydera 
bad) ii. 138. 

Cunumim 0. and 1. ( Balaghaut 
ii. 344. 

Cumoonah (Agra) l 406.. 
Cundwah (khandesh) ii. 104. 
Curipum (Circars) ii. 73. 

Cnrode (Circars) ii. 73. 

Curxfctral 0. (Balaghaut) ii. 336. 
Cnrootal T. (Balaghaut) ii. 338. 
Cnrrah (Allahabad) i. 302. 
Cnnrode (Gvjerat) i. 724. 
Cumekdeah (Bahar) i. 252. 
Csmekpoor (Bahar) l 251" 
Currybarry 0. (Adjacent to Assam 
IL7 62. * 


INDEX, 

Custee (Bengal) i. 200. 

Cutaki (Canara) ii. 262. 

Cntcb Gundava, 0. (Baloochistan) 
ii. 533. 

Cutch P. i. 585. 

Cutehwarra 0. (Afo/uraA) i. 732. 
Cutchubary (Bootan) ii. 739. 
Cuttack 0. (Orissa) ii. 38. 

/Uttack T. (Orissa) ii. 44. 
lutterah (Delhi) i. 438. 

?uttub Minar (Delhi) i. 423. 

"utwa (Bengal) i. 157. 

0 . 

Dabul (Bejapoor) ii. 213. 

Dacca Jelmpocfrl). (Bengal) i. 180. 
Dacca T. (Bengal) i. 183. 

Dalmow (Allahabad) i. 337. 
Dalmacherry (Balaghaut) ii. 34 o. 
DamaunD. (Afghanistan) ii. 563. 
Damaun (Gujerat) i. 724. 

Dannoo (Aurangabad) ii. 150. 
Dandar D. (Gujerat) i. 625. 

Dang (Nepaul) ii. 702. 

Daumnagur (Gujerat) i. 647. 
Daoudcaundy (Bengal) i. 179. 
Daoudnagur (Bahar) i. 268. 
Daranagur (Delhi) i. 446. 
Daraporam (Coimbatoor) ii. 389. 
Darchan (Tibet) ii. 592. 

Daroor (Aurangabad) ii. 1/8. 
Darwar (Bejapoor) ii. 238. 
Dassgong ( Aurangabad ) ii. 150. 
Dawurcouda D. and T. (Hydera- 
bad) ii. 138. 

Dawulghaut ( Bcrar ) ii. 113. 

Deba (Tibet) ii. 595. 

Debalpoor (Lahore) i. 496. 
Deccan, ii. 1. 

Deck q all (Orissa) ii. 47. 

Dekul. See Beacul, ii. 287. 
Dectan (Malwah) i. 752. 

Deeg (Agra) i. 392. 

Decsa (Gujerat) i. 628. 

Deliinda (Berar) ii. 114. 

Deijbara (Gujerat) i. 709. 

DeUt Isle (Ceylon) ii. 517. 

Delhi P. i. 407. 

Delhi T. i. 412. 

Dellamcotta (Bootan) ii. 738. 
Deodhur (Gujerat) i. 632. 
Deogbir. See Dowletabad, ii. 147. 
Deogur D. (Gundwana) ii. 28. 
Deonella (Mysore) ii. 374. 

Dera Ghazi Khan ( Afghanistan ) ii. 
564. 

Dera Ismael khau ( Afghanistan ) 
“ii. 564. 

Deriah Khan (Lahore) i 493. 
Deucar (Nepaul) ii. 701. 
Devaprayaga (Gurwat) 642. 

5 l 2 


811 

Devicotta (Carnatic) ii. 457 ♦ 

Devy (Circars) ii. 86. 

Dewa R. See Goggra, i. 347. 
Dewass (Malwah) i. 745. 
Dew^bur (Bejapoor) ii. 216. 
Dewilmurry (Gundwana) ii. 30. 
Dewly (Gundwana) ii. 27. 

Deyrab Doon (Gurwal) ii. 641. 
Dhamee (Sutuleje) ii. 625. 

Dhar (Malwah) i. 752. • 

Dhamonee (Malwah) i. 758. 
Dhenjee (Gujerat) i. 664. 

Dholka (Gujerat) i. 694. 

Dholpoor (Agra) i. 387. 

Dhoorb (Khandesh) ii. 98. 

Dhor (Nepaul) ii. 698. 

Dhorajee (Gujerat) i. 669. 

Dewrce (Malwah) i. 754. 

Diamond Harbour (Bengal) i. 141. 
Diamper ( Cochin ) ii. 307. 

Didwana (Ajmeer) i. 535. 
Diggarchech. See Teshoo Loomboo. 
Dinagepoor D. (Bengal) i. 220. 
DinagepoorT. (Bengal) i. 226. 
Dinapoor (Bahar) i. 267. 

Dindigul D. ( Carnatic ) ii. 466. 
Dindigul T. (Carnatic) ii. 467. 
Ditteah (Allahabad) i. 332. 

Diu Isle (Gujerat) i. 671. 

Doab (Agra) i. 369. 

Doabeh Barry D. ( Lahore ) i. 494. 
Doabel^T alii nd er D . ( Lahore) i,496. 
Dobygur ( Carnatic ) ii. 431. 
Dodairee ( Mysore ) ii. 369. 
Dodabaiiea (Mysore) ii. 372. 
Doessah (Bahar) i. 291. 

Dogorah (Allahabad) i. 331. 

Dolmd ( Gujerat ) i. 686. 

Dollerab (Gujerat) i. 676. 

Domus (Gujerat) i. 723. 

Dondra Head (Ceylon) ii. 521. 
DoolooBussundar (Nepaul) ii. 702. 
Doon. See Deyrah Doon, ii. 641. 
Doomah (Gundwana) ii. 25. 
Doongurpoor (Gujerat) i. 680. 
Doondeakera ( Oude ) i. 350. 1 
Door (Balaghaut) ii. 344. 

Doomai (Balaghaut) ii. 344. 
Dooiyah (Malwah) i. 757. 
Doorygkaut (Allahabad) i. 316. 
Dopblas D. (Adjacent to Assam) 
ii. 755. 

Doudpoor (Gundwana) ii. 30. 
Douree (Allahabad) i. 317. 
Dowletabad (Aurangabad) ii. 147. 
Dowl .bad, 0. (Aumngabad) U. 
1 17. 

Drauppa (Gujerat) i. 669. 

Draus (Tibet) il 601. 

0rav>d* U. 246. 

Dramtoor 0. (Lahore) i. 487, 
Dubboi (Gujerat) l 682. 



813 


INDEX. 


Dabbs* (Mmter) i. 543. 
Duckenparab (Cashmere), i $13. 
Dukka Jedng ( Bootan) ii. 736. 
Dukkinshahabazpoor Isle ( Bengal) 
i. 134. 

S (Tibet) it. 597. 

(Mooltan) 1. 573. 
to* f&ujerat). i. 676. 
Dungy ( Bahar) i. 281. 

Dupaud (Bdlagkaut) ii. 344. 
Durapgdra ( Gujerat ) i. 648. 
Durbtmgah (Bahar) 273. 

Duroo (Cashmere) i. 512. 
Dumimgaum (Khandesh) ii. 99. 
Dussara (Gujerat) i. 635. 

Duti D. (Nepaul) ii. 705. 

Dnttar (Lahore) i. 498. 

Dwaraca (Gujerat) i. 662. 

Dyhul (Khandesh) ii. 99. 


Ecdala (Bengal) i. 188. 

EcdUilah (Allahabad) i. 301. 
Ederwara D. (Gujerat) i. 679. 
Edmonstooe’s Isle (Bengal) i. 131. 
Betal (Canard) ii. 270. 

Einuru (Canard) ii. 268. 

Eidgheer D. *and T. ( Hyderabad ) 
ii. 137. 

Elephantalsle (Aurangabad) ii. 1 73. 
Elgunda D. (Hyderabad) ii. 141. 
Ellicbpoor (Berar) ii. 112. 

Ellore D. (Circars) ii. 86. 

Ellore T. ( Circars ) ii. 86. 

Elmore (Circars) ii. 73. 

Elora (Aurungabad) ii. 148% 
Embehotty (Oude) i. 349. 
Eminabad (Lahore) i. 47$. 
Emroke (Agra) i. 382. 

Enore (Carnatic) ii. 449. 

Erech (Allahabad) i. 332. 

Erroor (Malabar) ii. 298. 

Eroad (Combatoor) ii. 391. 
Etawah D. (Agra) i. 373. 
EtawabT. (Agra) i. 376. 
Kynappor (Bejapoor) ii. 230. 


Ferozepoor (Delhi) i. 467. 

Fiftdka (Aurungabad) ii. 178. 
Firozabad (Agra) i. 375. 
Firozepoor (Agra) i. 400. 
Firozegur (Hyderabad) ii. 137. 
Fort William. See Calcutta, i. 53 
Fort St. David (Carngtic) ii. 443. 
Fortified Island (Canard) ii. 264. 
Fringybazar ( Bengal) 188- 
Ftdgo K. i. 260. 

Fttlta (Bengal) i. 142. 


Fumickabad D. (Agra) i. 376. 
Furiuckabad T. (Agra) i. 378. 
Furrucknagur (Delhi) i. 461. 
Futtehghur (Agra) i. 379. 
Futtehpoor (Allahabad) 1. 302. 
Futtehabad (Aurungabad) it 178. 
Futtehabad ( Ajmeer ) i. 525. 
Futtipoor (Agra) i. 367. 
Futtypoor (Aimeer) i. 537. 
Fyzabad (Oude) i. 350. 


Gagroon (Malwah) i. 732. 

Gahrah (Mooltan) i. 577. 

Galkot (Nepaul) ii. 700. 

Gandhauk (Sikkim) ii. 726. 
Gandicotta D. and T. ( Balaghaut ) 
ii. 344. 

Ganges R. i. 7. 

Gangpoor D. and T. (Gundwana) 

Gangoutri (Gurwal) ii. 644. 
Ganjam D. ( Circars ) ii. 67. 

Ganjam T. (Circars) ii. 68. 
Ganorah ( Ajmeer ) i. 551. 
Garahang (Nepaul) ii. 697. 
Garewdun. See Gurdon, ii. 705. 
Gariadhar (Gujerat) i. 647. 
Garrows D. (Adjacent to Assam) 
ii. 757. 

Gaukarna (Canard) ii. 263. 

Gaulna D. ( Khandesh ) ii. 97. 
Gaulna T. ( Khandesh ) ii. 98. 
Gawelghur (Berar) ii, 114. 

Gaya (Bahar) i. 264. 

Gentiab D. (Adjacent to Assam) 
ii. 763. 

Ghassa (Bootan) ii. 736. 

Ghauts Eastern, ii. 248. 

Ghauts Western, ii. 249. 
Gbazipoor ( Allahabad ) i. 309. 
Gheriah (Byapoor) ii. 215 
Ghergong (Assam) ii. 751. 
Ghkldore ( Bahar) i. 25 1 . 

Ghizni (Afghanistan) ii. 555. 
Ghoraghaut (Bengal) i. 227. 
Ghunpoor D. and T. ( Hyderabad ) 
ii. 137. 

Gingee (Carnatic) ii. 438. 

Girout (Agra) i. 375. 

Goa (Bejapoor) ii. 221. 

Goahati (Assam) ii, 751. 

Goalpara ( Bengal) i. 212. 

Goands. See Gonds, ii. 5. 
Godavery R. ii. 80. 

Godra (Gujerat), i. 686. 

Goeiwar D. (Gujerat) i. 672. 


uodra (Gujerat), i. 080. 
Goeiwar D. (Gujerat) i. < 
Goggva R. i. 347. 

Gogo (Gujerat) L 675. 


Gohud (Agra) i. 385. 

Gokank (Betapoor) ii 240. 

Goloonda D. and T; (Hyderabad) 
ii. 140. 

Gondegana R. ii. 426. 

Gondwara (Bengal) i. 238. 

Gonds. See Gundwaua, 11 5* 
Goochnant (Gujerat) i. 630. 
Goodecotta (Mysore) ii. 369. 
Goodoor (Balaghaut) ii. 339. 
5oolgunge (Allahabad) i. 333. 
Gooratee. See Dwaraca, 1. 662. 
Goomty R. i. 347. 

Goomsur (Circars) ii. 69« 

Goonda (Oude) i. 352. 

Gbonee R. i. 570. \ 

ooty D. ( Balaghaut) Hi. 335. 

Gooty T. (Balaghaut) u. 335. 

> Gopaulghur (Malwah) i. 734. 
Gorkha (Nepaul) ii. 694. 

Gortope (Tibet) ii. 598. 

I Goruepoor D. (Oude) i. 354. 
Gorucpoor T. (Oude) i. 357. 
Gosauly (Agra) i. 393. 

“oundul (Gujerat) i. 654. 
rassias. See Gujerat, i. 604. 
our (Bengal) i. 228. 
jiourpesara (Nepaul) ii. 709. 

“low (Bahar) i. 269. 

Gualior (Agra) i. 383. 

) uckers D. (Lahore) i. 490. 
udwall ( Bejapoor ) ii. 234. 
iugah (Mooltan) i. 577. 

Guicowar. See Baroda, i. 698. 
Gujerat P. i. 604. 

^ujerat Peninsula, i. 635. 
ujerat T. (Lahore) i. 491. 

) ujunderghur (Bejapoor) ii. 234. 
Guiundergur T. (Bejapoor) ii. 234. 

ulgunda (Circars) ii. 82. 

Gulmi (Nepaul) ii. 700. 

Gunduck D. (Bejapoor) ii. 238. 
Gunduck R. i. 271. 

Gundwana P. ii. 5. 

Gundwana D. ii. 26. 

Guneisbghur (Agra) i. 383. 
Gungaileo (Ajmeer) i. 545. * 
Uxungapoor (Ajmeer) i. 547. 

*) Gungraur ( Malwah ) i 736: 
Guntoor D. ( Circars ) ii. 87. 
Guntoor T. (Circars) ii. 92. 
Gurdon (Nepaul) ii. 705. 

Gumudy (Bengal) 1 134. 

Gurrah D. and T. (Gundwana) ii. 
24. 

Gurrakota (Allahabad) i 334. 
Gurrumconda D. and T. ( Bala * 
ghaut) ii 346. 

Gurwal D. ii. 633. 

Gutpurba R. Ii. 210* ' 

Gmg otu (Bengal) i 210# 



INDEX. 


81S 


H, Hurrial (Bengal) i. 199. 

„ v . , /u h Hurrianna D, (Delhi) i K 455. 

H «4we Omar Kalaudy (Mooltan) Hurryhur (Mysore) ii. 368. 


1577. 

Hadjigunge (Bengal) i. 187. 
Haiypoor (Bahar) 1 272. 
Haidubarry ( Bengal ) i. 238. 
Hallaur D. (Gujerat) 1. 651. 
Hfdlole (Gyerat) 1 682. 
Hambangtotte (Ceylon) ii. 52 i 
HangweUe (Ceylon) ii. 515. 
Hansoot (Gujerat) ii, 711. 
Hansi (Beil*) 1 460. 


Jamdro Lake (Tibet) ii. 584. 
T anjoula (Beeder) ii. 120. 
r aresang (Nepanl)' ii, 715. 
Hurekr (Aurangabad) ii. 182. r aucdeo (Salem) ii. 397. 
Hussein Abdaul (Lahore) i. 489. aujmow (Allahabad) i. 336. 
Husseinabad (Khan desk) ii. 104. aulda (Bahar) i. 285. 
Husseinpoor (Delhi) i. 440. r auts. Set Bhurtpoor, i. 388. 

Hustinapoor (Delhi) i. 455. Pawnee (Khantfesn) ii. 103. 

Huswah (Allahabad) i. 302. Jawud {Ajmer) i. 552. 
Huttany (Bejapoor) ii. 232. Jayes ( Oude ) i. 352. 

Hydaspes. See Jhylum R. i. 483. Jeend (Delhi) i . 464. 
Hyatnagur (Oude) i. 350. Jeghederpoor ( Orissa ) ii. 45. 

Hyderabad P. ii. 122. Jehanabad (Bahar) i. 263. 

Hyderabad T. ii. 135. Jehanabad (Khandesk) ii. 10 

Hyderabad (Mooltan) i. 569. Jeitpoor (Allahabad) i. 326. 
Hydergur (Oude) i. 349. Jejurry (Aurangabad) ii. 20( 

Hydrastes. See Ravey R. i. 484. Jelalpoor (Lahore) i. 491. 
Hyphasis. See Beyah R. i. 485. Jelalabad (Delhi) i. 439. 


Harponelly (Baldgkaut) ii. 332. Hyderabad T. ii. 135. 
Harowty D, (Ameer) i. 543. Hyderabad (MooUan) i. 56! 
Harriorpoor (Nepaul) ii. 711. Hydergur (Oude) i. 349. 
Harriorpoor (Orissa) ii. 37. Hydrastes. See Ravey R. 
Hattialsle (Bengal) i. 176. Hyphasis. See Beyah R. i 

Hatras (Agra) i. 403. 

Hatcoul (Bahar) i. 279. I. 

Helai (Mooltan) *-577. Ikery (Mysore) ii. 367. 

Henery Ue(Aurw,gabad) u. 175. lnd ^ b V al f B«4r> ii. 120. 

S'!!? 001 Inchawur (Mdvjah) i. 757. 


Jehanabad (Bahar) i. 263. 
Jehanabad (Khandesk) ii. 100. 
Jeitpoor (Allahabad) i. 326. 
Jejurry (Aurungabad) ii. 200. 


Herrioor (Mysore) ii. 370. 
Hethaura (Nepaul) ii. 710. 
HidjeUee ( Bengal ) i. 140. 
Hilsah (Bahar) i. 263. 
Himalaya Mountains, ii. 603. 
Hindis D. (Khandesk) ii. 104. 
Hindis T. (Khandesk) ii. 104. 
Hindoue (Agra) i. 388. 


>,tT m «.» 

.. „ 43 Jenjapoor (Bahar) i. 273. 

Indore (Malwah) i. 745. Jesselmere D. (Aj mar) i. 530. 

Indus R. i. 478. * sselrae " 

Inieram (drear.) ii. 82. Jessore ©. (Bengal) 1. 134. 


Jeigumah (Allahabad) i. 302. 
Jellasore (Bengal) i. 152. 
Jellalpoor (Agra) i. 381. 
Jelpesh ( Bengal ) i. 210. 
Jelpegonr (Bengal) i. 210. 
Jemaulabad (Canard) ii. 268. 


ii. 243. 

Indore (Malwah) i. 745. 

Indus R. i. 478. 

Injeram (Circars) ii. 82. 
Injellee. See Hidgellee, i, 140. 


Hindoo C«h Mountains U. 551. i ^T b.* 
Hmdoor (Sutuleje) a. 617. Waddy R. ii. 788. 

Hindoatan. See Introduction. Islamabad (Bengal) i. 172. 
Hindustan, Nrathero, u. 602. Islamabad ( Cashmere ) i. 5 13. 

Hinglaiaghur (Malwah) i 736. ^^poo,- {A jmeer) i. 537. 

Hingunghaut ( Gmdwana ) u. 27. islamiagur (Malwah) i. 757. 
Hirapoor (Allahabad) 1 . 334. 

Hissar (Delhi) l 459. J. 

Holcar. See Indore, i. 745. 

Hoobly ( Bejapoor ) ii. 238. Jabbooah (Malwah) i. 751. 

Hooghly B.« (Bengal) i. 136. Jacotta ( Cochin ) ii. 307. 

Hooghly T. (Bengal) i. 138. Jaffierabad (Berar) ii. 115. 

Hooeblv R. (Bengal) i. 138, Jafnapatam ( Ceylon ) ii. 516. 


Jetra (Gujerat) i. 625. 
Jeypoor B. (Ajmeer) i. 537. 
Jeypoor T. (Ajmeer) i. 540. 
Jballode (Gujerat) i. 683. 
Jhansi (Allahabad) i. 330. 
Jhansu Jeung (Tibet) ii. 586. 
Jhalawar (Gujerat) i. 647. 
Jharrah (Cutch) i. 597. 
hoonjoona (Ajmeer) i. 537* 
rhurree (Agra) i. 382. 


Jabbooah (Malwah) i. 751. Jhurjhoory (Nepaul) ii. 709. 

Jacotta ( Cochin ) ii. 307. Jhylum, or Hydaspes R. i. 483. 

Jaffierabad (Berar) ii. 115. Jilpy Aumnair (Gmdwana) ii. 26. 

Jafnapatam ( Ceylon ) ii. 5 1C. Jinhut Boabeh (Lahore) i. 493. 

Jafferabad (Gujerat) i. 671. Jolyah (Ajmeer) i. 542. 

Jagepoor ( Orissa ) ii. 46. Joobui (Sutuleje) ii. 625. 

Jaehire D. See Chingleput D, ii. Joodhun (Aurungabad) n. 181. 

J 44^ Joogdea 180. 

Jaeram (Delhi) i. 467. Jooneer D. (Aurungabad) ii. 180. 

Jahil (Ajmeer) i. 535. Jooneer T. (Aurungabad) u. 181. 


Hookery (Bejapoor) ii. 240. 
Hooly Onore (Mysore) ii. 368. 
Hoomnabad (Beeder) ii. 120. 
Hoseepoor (Bahar) i. 278. 

Durga (Malabar) ii. 287. 
Hosspbetta (C anara) ii. 270. 


Jhylum, or Hydaspes R. i. 483. 
Jilpy Aumnair (Gmdwana) ii. 26. 
Jinhut Hoabeh (Lahore) i. 493. 
Jolyah (Ajmeer) i. 542. 

Joobui (Sutuleje) ii. 625. 


Howeraghaut. SeeBijnee, ii. 752. Jahjow (Agra) i. 366. Joona (Gujerat) i. 655 

Hudeah ( Betti) i. 467. Jains- See Sravana Belgulu and Joosy (Allahabad) t .! 101 


Hudeah (Delhi) i. 467. 
Hughly. See Hooghly. . 
HuUyhail (Canara) ii. 261. 
Hulwud (Gujerat) l 648. 
Humpapura (Mysore) ii. 382 
Hm&h (Khandcsh) ii. 104. 
Hurdwar (Delhi) i, 449. 
Hurreepoor ( Lahore ) i. 502. 


South Canara. 

J ait poor (Gujerat) i. 669. 

Jajarcote (Nepaul) ii. 702. 

Jalghur (Ajmeer) i. 547. 
Jalalgunge (Bengal) i. 210. 
Jallinder (Lahore) i. 497. # 

Jalnapoor H. (Aurungabad) u. 178 


HurrSader Ghur (Aurungabad) Jalna 

RIM. , _ Jal°o»n Mgra) i. 381. 


Jorbaut (Assam) ii. 751. 

Josimath (Gurwal) ii. 646. 
Joudpoor D. (Ajmeer) i. 531. 
Joudpoor T. (Ajmeer) i. 534, 
Ijownsar (Sutuleje) ii. 629. 

Jowaur D.and T. (Aurungabad) ii 

149 . 

Juanpoor D. ( Allahabad ) i. 313. 
Juanpoor T. (Allahabad) i, 315. 
Jubbulpoor (Gund&ana) ii. 25. 





INDEX. 


814 

Jugdeetpoor (Oude) t 35ft 
Juggetaauth ( Orissa ^ ii. 50. 
Juggeth. See Dwaraca, i. 662. 
Juggeah Pettah ( Circars ) ii. 86 
Jugnigopa ( Bengal ) i. 213. 
Jukab (Mdoltan) i. 578. 
Jumboaier T. ( Gujerat ) i. 709. 
Jumna R. L 294. 

Junaghur {Gvjerat) i. 668. 
Jundah {Ajmeer) i. 537. 
Jungcypoor {Ben gel) i. 165. 
Junglebarry {Bengal) i. 190. 


Kete* { Mooltan ) i. 571. Kotrab {AUahabad) >. 331. 

Keyt5ne {Ajmeer) i. 545. Kotye {Malabar) ii. 296. 

Keykra {Ajmeer) i.522. Kowlas D. and T. {Hyderabad) 

Kbachi (Nepaul) ii. 700. ii. 141. 

Khamti D. {Adjacent to Assam) ii. Kowreenagur {Gvjerat) i. 671. 


756. 

Khandesh P. ii. 95. 

Kbandesh D. ii. 99. 

Kkansa {Nepavl) ii. 713. 
Kbasgunge {Agra) i. 379. 
Khatang D. {Nepavl) ii. 713. 
Kheirlab D. '(Gundmna) [ ii. 26. 


Jungle Mahals D. {Bengal) i 142. Kheir {Bcjapoor) ii. 214 
Jungseal {Lahore) i. 494. Khemlasa (Malwah) i. 735. 

Jurkeira {Ajmeer) i. 521. Kheroo ( Tibet) ii. 587. 

Jushooor D. and T. (Gundfcana) ii. Kheyraloo (Gujerdt) i. 679. 

Kboordab ( Orissa ) ii. 49. 
Kbooshalghur {Agra) i. 388. 
Khooshgul {Bcjapoor) ii. 238. 
Khundadar {Gvjerat) i. 655. 


19. 

Jutwar D. {Gvjerat) i. 632. 
Jwalaimtkbi ( Lahore ) C. 502. 
Jyapoor {Orissa) ii. 46. 

’ Jyeuagur, See Jeypoor, i. 426. 
JyglU* {Delhi) i. 426. 

K. 

s {Agra) i. 379. 
l {Afghanistan) ii. 564 

hawatta {Ceylon) ii. 521. 

Kaheree {Afghanistan) ii. 564. 
Kahlore. See Cahlore, il 615. 
Kailwara (Maltoah) i. 733. 
KairaD. (Gujerat) i. 689. 
KairaT. {Gujerat) i. 693. 
Kakora {Ajmeer) i. 543 


Kowrah {Catch) i. 603. 

Krishna R. il. 209. 

Kuckaretlee {Allahabad) i. 326. 
Kuddauna {Gujerat) i. 684. 
KullumD. ( Berar ) It H7. 
Kumaon 0. ii. 648. 

Kumballia {Gujerat) t 655. 
Kumulnere {Ajmeer) i. 552. 
Kunaitoo (Sutuleje) ii. 627. 
Kundal {Bengal) i. 180. 
Kundaila {Ajmeer) i. 536. 
Kundapoor ( Qandra > ft. 2C4. 
Kpnjeur 0. ( Orissa > 35. 

Kiiiika {Orissa) ii. 46. \ 
Kunjpoora {Delhi) i. 427. 


Kuppurwunje {Gujerat) t 695. 
Kurdla {Aurangabad) ii.\l79. 


Khuntaghaut. See Bijnee, it. 752, Kuntcote {Catch) i. 602. 

Kbyrabad D. ( Oude ) i. 353. ~ •*-*—*> 

Khyrabad {Oude) i. 353. 

Khyrpoor {Mooltan) i. 578. 

Kienlung {Tibet) ii. 597. 

Kimedy (Circars) ii. 69. 

Kiraut D. ( Nepaul) ii. 712. 

Kirthipoor ( Nepaul ) il 692. 

Kishenaghur D, 

144. 


Kurgommah ( Gundwana ) ii. 19* 
Kurmilla {Aurangabad) 11 179. 
Kurnal {Delhi) i. 426. 

Kurnaila {Aurangabad) ii. 151. 
Kurnoul. See Curnoul, ii. 336. 
See Nuddea 0. i Kurrah {Aurangabad) ii. 181. 

Kurree {Gujerat) i. 678. 


Kalbergah. See Calbergn, il 119. Kistnapatam (Carnatic) iiM26. 
Kakreze (Gujerat) i. 631. 

Kalpee (Agra) l 379. 

Kalsee (Sutuleje) ii. 631. 

Kalunga (GurtcaT) ii. 641. 

Kandar (Assam) ii. 750. 

Kangra ( Lahore ) i. 500. 

Kanoje (Agra) i. 374. 

Kannagberry (Bejapoor) ii. 234, 


Kisbenagur (Bengal) 1 146. Kut&hnee ( Allahabad ) 13 27. 

Kishenaghur ( Ajmeer ) i. 521. Kuttaria (Cutch) i. 602. 
Kishtewar D. (Lahore) i. 498. Kufcubdea Isle ( Bengal ) i. 174 
Kistna 11. See Krishna R. ii. 209. Kyraghur (Malrrah) il. 23. 

~ ‘ Kyreeghur (Delhi) i. 44C. 


Lacaracoonda ( Bengal ) l 160. 
Laccadives Ides ( Malabar ) ii. 298. 
Lacky Jungle. See Batinda, i. 526. 
Lahar (Agra) i. 381. 

Labdack D. (Tibet) ii. 599. 


Karajee ( Bejapoor ) ii. 232. 


h Doon (Sutuleje) ii. 620. 

Kargauw ( Khandesh ) ii. 103. 

Karical ( Carnatic ) ii. 459. 

Karaata, ii. 247. 

Karouly (Agra) i. 387. _ _ 

Karrabaugh (Afghanistan) ii. 562 Koonyar {Sutuleje ) \ 

Kaski ( Nepaul ) ii. 699. Koorba (Gundwana) ii. 19. 

Kautery (Ajmeer) i. 536. Kootar (Delhi) 1 438. 

Kedamath (Gurrnl) ii. 645. Koorwey ( Malwak ) i. 735. 

Keerpoy ( Bengal) i. 139. Korah ( Allahabad ) i. 302. 

Kedgeree ( Bengal ) i. 141. Korah (Cutch) i. 597. 

Kelat (Baloocmstan) ii. 532. Korotoya R. ( Bengal ) i. 209. 
Kellynellycotta ( Carnatic ) ii. 459 Kothaur (Sutuleje) il 624. 
Kellamangalum (Salem) ii. 397. Kotab (Ajmeer) 1 543. 
Kelpoory (Delhi) i. 439. Kote (Gujerat) L 604. 

Ken R. i. 295. . Kotegbur (Sutuleje) ii. 627. 

Kenneri ( Aurangabad ) ii. 173. Kotaur (Tratmcore) ii. 322. 
Keontbul (Subtly*) ii. 623. Kotra (Malwak) l 753. 


Kistnagherry (Salem) ii. 396. 

Kittoor ( Bejapoor ) ii. 239. 

Kitul (Delhi) i. 464. 

Koarree ( Aurungabad ) ii. 152. 

Kohaut ( Afghanistan ) ii. 562. 

KoUabaug (Malwah) i. 733. 

Komotapoor ( Bengal ) i. 211. 

Konapoor ( Bejapoor ) ii. 239. 

Kondoiurry. See Kunjeur> ii. 35 Labdack T. (Tibet) ii. 600. 
Kookies D. ( Bengal ) l 1 73. [Labdack R. (Tibet)' it 600. 
Koomharsein ( Sutuleje ) ii. 624. Lahore P, i. 468. 

Koonch (Agra) t 381. Lahore T. I 476. 

Koondah (Dakar) i. 285. Lalita Pston (NeMul) il 691. 

Koonjurghuv (Aurungabad) ii. 181 Lalsoont (Ajmeer) i. 542. 
Koonyar (Sutuleje) il 625. Lamadangra Mountains, il 709. 

Lamjuti (Nepaul) it 698. 

Laour (Bengal) i. 197. 


Lapchas. See Sikkim. 
Larkbanu (Mooltan) i. 570. 
Lam (Tibet) it 583. 

Laswaree Cdgnt) i. 393. 
Latikery (Ajmeer) 1. 543* 

Leia (Lahore) l 492. v 
Lbonaur (Berar) ii. 116. 
Limba (Aurangabad) it 179. 
Limree (Gujerat) 1 648. 
LocapiUy (Hyderabad) 11,137. 




’<&rsttk m 

FT** (Bteder) ii. 120, 

ifisasasw/** 
isplffisitti- 

lxMyaiia ( Gujerat ) i. 672. 

Lonsir (Gujerat) i. 649. 

Jx>neir (Kkandesh) ii. 99. 

Lotun ( Oude ) i. 358. 

Lowyah' ( Bahar ) i. 279. 

f“iP*V®““ der (Cutch) i. 596. 
Luclupoof (Bengal i. 179. 

"“■“"w* (Oude) i." 347. 
kudteahna (Delhi) i, 466. . 

Lunwara. (Gujerat) i. 683, 

M.. 

Maat (Agra) i. 405. 

Macherla ( Circars ) ii. 94. 
Macherry ( Agra ) i. 394. 

Macowa] {Lahore) i. 498. 
Madigheshy Droog (Mysore) ii. 
372. 

Maddapollam (Circars) ii. 83. 
Modharajpoor (Ajmer) i. 542. 
Madras T. (Carnatic) ii. 406. 
Madras Presidency, ii. 418. 
Madura D. (Carnatic) ii. 469. 
Madura T. (Carnatic) ii. 471. 
Maggeri (Mysore) ii. 377, 
Mahabiilysir (Bejapoor) ii. 229. 
Mahabahpoor (Bahar) i. 268. 
Mababuipuram ( Carnatic ) ii. 450 
Mahagank (Ceylon) ii. 522. 
Mabanuddy R. ii. 45. 

Maharatta (Aurangabad) ii. 183. 
Mah£ (Malabar) 2 . 292. 
Maheidpoor (Malwah) i. 736. 
Mahim ( Aurangabad ) ii. 169. 
Mahmudpoor (Bengal) i 136. 
Mahmudihi (Bengal) i. 136. 
Mahobah (Allahabad) i. 325. 
Mahomdy (Oude) i. 353. 

Mahona (Agra) i. 382. 

Mahore B. & T. (Bcrar) ii. 116. 
Mahowl (Allahabad) i. 315. 
Mahrajgunge (Bengal) i. 23 7. 
Mahtur (Gujerat) X 694. 
MahyR, i. 621. 

Maiduck D. and T. (Hyderabad) 
ii. 141, 

Maihter B, & T. (Berar) ii. 116, 
Mailcotta (Mysore) ii. 379. 
Maisdy (Gundwana) ii. 27. 
Maissy (Bahar) i. 279. 

M^nfi B. (Assam) ii. 751. 

Mdnr D. (Madia*) 1. 578. 
Mrtarm (DAM) 1 466. 
Malabar P, R272. 


INDEX. 

(Aunmgahad) ii. 

Malari {Kumaon) ii. 660. 

Malatifo (Ceylun) ii. 525. 
Malavilly (Mysore) ii. 379. 

Malda (Bengal) i. 228. 

Maldives Isles (Malabar) ii. 299. 
Malebum D. and T. ( Nepaul ) ii. 
699. 

Malebaugh (Nepaul) ii. 698. 
Malkatr D. and T. (Hyderabad) ii. 
141. 

Malavilly (Circars) ii. 86. 

Mallia (Gujerat) i. 650. 

Mallaver (Gundwana) ii. 23. 
Malogh (Sutuleje) ii. 625. 
Malpoora CAjmeer) {. 542. 
Malpurba K.. ii. 210. 

Msihawo* (Allahabad) i. 333. 
Malwah P. (Gujerat) i. 726. 
Malwau (Bejapoor) ii. 219. 
Manaar Gulf ii. 516. 

Manaar Isle (Ceylon) ii. 516. 
Manapar (Carnatic) ii. 465 

1 ) / n i. . 


815 

Mean&e*. (Mooltan) i. 577. 
Meannee (Qtgerat) i. 667, 

Meany (Lahore) i. 490. 

Measpara ( Bengal ) i, 213. 
Mednigunge (Allahabad) i. 337, 
Meegheoung Yay (Ava) ii. 794. 
Meerat (Ajmeer) i. 534. 
Meercaserai (Bengal) i. 173. 
Meerpoor (Lahore) i. 493. 
MegnaR. i, 16, 

Mehwaa.D. (Gujerat) i. 622. 
Mehkoor D. ( Gundwana ) ii. 26. 
Meiwar D. ( Khandesh ) ii. 103. 
Melloor (Carnatic) ii. 469. 
Mendyghaut (Agra) i. 375. 

Mer (Cutch) i. 597. 

Mercara (Malabar) ii. 290. 
Merritch (Bejapoor) ii. 230. 

Merud ( Aurungabud ) ii. 201. 
Merut D. (Delhi) i. 452. 

Merut T. (JDcM*) i. 453. 

Mewar D. (Ajmeer) i. 650. 

Me wattles. See Macherry, i. 394. 
Meyaboon (Ava) ii. 795. 
Mkeyshwar (Malwah) i. 753. 


1 II. 

anas R. (Bengal) i. 209. Mheysbwar (Malwah) i 753 

Manasarovara Lake (Ti6e0ii. 589 Mbokeir (Aurangabad) ii 177. 
jMancote (Lahore) i. 493. Midnapoor D. (Bengal) i. 147. 

Mandavie (Cutch) i. 596. Midnapoor T. (Bengal) i. 151 

Minpooree (Agra) i. 375. 
Mirzanagur (Bengal) i. 136. 

JVl 1 nranrvir n / I\ : 


I™ l. *4iJO 

Mandavfe (Cutch) i. 596. 
Mandowee (Gujerat) i. 723. 
Mangapett (Hyderabad) ii. 142 
Mangalore (Canada) ii. 269. 
Manickpatara (Orissa) ii. 58. 
Manicpoor ( Allahabad ) i. 336. 
Marjauly (Bahar) i. 279. 

Maniera R. ii. 137. 

Manjee (Bahar) i. 278. 

Manowly ( Bejapoor ) ii. 241. 
Manwas D. (Gundwana) ii, 16. 
Marawa ( Carnatic ) ii. 472. 
Marickpoor ( Orissa ) ii. 50. 
Manaow (Conor a) ii. 263. 
Markeree. See Mercara, ii. 290. 
Maronda ( Ajmeer ) i. 522. 
Marwar Tj. (Ajmeer) i. 534. 
Mascal Isle (Bengal) i. 174. 
Massood (Gundwana) ii. 27. 
Masood (Gundwana) ii. 27. 
Masulipatam D. ( drears ) ii. 83. 
Masulipatam T. (Circars) ii. 84. 
Maswey (Oude) i. 353. 

Mathura (Agra) i. 367. 

Matura (Ceylon) ii. 521. 

Matwar (Malwah) i. 753. 
Maulpoor (Gujerat) .i. 679. 
Maundvee (Aurangabad) ii, 150, 
Maunkaira (Lahore) 1. 493. 
Maunkaiseer (Aurangabad) ii. 179, 
Maunicyala (Lahore) i. 490. 
Maunsa (Gujerat) i. 677. 
Maydourghaut (Circars) ii, 87. 
Maaagong (Aurangabad) ii. 169. 
Mcahgunge (Oude) i. 349. 


yucngai) 1. too. 

Mirzapoor D. (Allahabad) i. 310. 
MirzapoorT. (Allahabad) i. 311. 
iMitenda Cat (Afghanistan) ii. 661 
Modapilly (Circars) ii. 94. 
Mogulseray (Malwah) i. 734. 
Mobaun (Oude) i. 349.' 

Mobim (Delhi) i. 460. 

Mobindra Mallee (Circars) ii. 68 
Mohunpoor (Malwah) i. 735. 
Mohungur (Agra) i. 382. 

6. (Orissa) ii. 35. 


~ \Vfnw; II. Oil. 

Mokaura (Aurungabad) ii. 150. 
Moncbaboo (Ava) ii. 792. 

Moneah (Bahar) i. 268. 

Monghir (Bahar) i. 252. 

Monjpoor (Gujerat) i. 631. 
Monsoon. See India South of the 
Krishna, ii. 243. 

Moodhill (Bejapoor) ii. 241. 
Moodapoor ( Bengal ) i. 191. 
Moolky (Canara) ii. 269. 
Moolpopetta (Carnatic) ii. 483. 
Mooltan P. i. 555. 

Mooltan T. i. 55 7. 

Mooltaye (Gundwana) ii. 27. 
Mooneer (Bahar) i. 281. 
Mooughy (Aurungabad) ii. 180. 
Mooriconda (Balaghaut) ii. 340. 
Moorley ( Bengal ) i. 136. 
Moorleydurserai (Agra) i. 375. 
Moomuik (Agra) i. 405. 
MoorsbedabadB. (Bengal) i. 160 



816 INDEX. 

Moorshedabad T. (Bengal) L 162 v Munipoor T. (Adjacent to Assam) Narrah (Ghmdwpm) H. 21. 
Mooteierna (Bxthar) i. 253. ii. 766. Narraingimge (Bengal) L WK 

Moplays. See Paniany, ii. 296. Munjerabad (Mysore) il 371. Narrobote (Gujerat) i, 682. 
Moeadabad D. ('Delhi) i. 441. Munta ( Aurangabad ) ii. 178. Narsingah (Orissa) il. 4a 
Moradabad T.* (Delhi) i. 444. Murfan (Allahabad) l 328. Narsingpoor (My sard)®. 3 & 2* 
Moreishwar (Aurangabad) ii. 201. Murgore (Bejapoor) il 241. Narsipoor (Circars) *i. 8a 
‘Morevee (Gujerat) l 650. Murichom (Boofoa) ii. 737. Narwar D. and T. (Agra) 1382. 

Morewara ( Gujerat ) i. 632. Mussy R. ii. 137. Nassuck (Aurangabad) H. 177. 

Momi (Sutuleje) i. 629. Mustaphabad (Delhi) i. 465. Nathdora (Ajmeer) 1551. 

Mortezanagur. SeeGuntodrD. ii. Mustaphanagur. See Condapilly, ii. Natradacotta (Carnatic) ii 483. 

87. 86. Nattam (Carnatic) U. 462. 

Mortizabad D. (Bejapoor) ii. 226. Mustung (Tibet) ii. 583. Nattore (Bengal) i. 192. 

Momng D. (Nepavt) ii. 716. * Mutcherhuttah (Oude) i. 353. N aundoor (A urung abad ) ii. 180. 

Moujghur (Moo ft an) i. 560. Muteodu (Mysore) ii. 370. Naundode D. and T. (Gujerat) 1 

Mount Dilly (Malabar) ii. 299. Mutgbur (Oude) l 35 7. 712. 

Moutapilly (Circars) ii. 94. Muttra. See Mathura. Nauvhpoor (Bengal) 1 238. 

Mow (Allahabad) i. 316. Muzifferabad (Lahore) i. 487. Nawadah ( Baker ) i. 264., . 

Mow (Allahabad) l 317. Myconda (Mysore) ii. 368. Nawaubgunge (Oude) i. 349. 

Mow (Malwah) i. 745. Myer (Allahabad) i. 329. Neelab (Afghanistan) ii. 5n2. 

Mowab (Bahar) i. 274. Myraunsingh D. ( Bengal ) i. 189. Neclgur (Orissa) ii. 37. ' 

Muckundra (Malwah) i. 732. Mymutghur (Bqapoor) ii. 226. Neemoodra (Gujerat) i. 7 lid* 
Muckiiftdgunge (Bahar) i. 285. Mysore P. ii. 349. Ncepatoor (Sa/etw) ii. 397. \ 

MuckwanpoorD. ( Nepaul ) ii. 706. Mysore T. ii. 364. Neergoond (Bqapoor) il. 239. 

Muckwanpoor T. ( Nepaul ) ii. 709. Neermul (Beeder) ii, 121. 

Muddee (Gujerat) i. 664. n. Negapatam (Carnatic) ii. 460. 

Muddunghur (Bejapoor) ii. 213 * Negombo (Ceyhn) ii. 519. 

Mudghery Droog (Mysore) ii. 372. Naads (Combatoor) ii. 387. Nehrwalla. Bee Puttunwor, i. 623. 

Mudgul D. and T. ( Bejapoor) ii. 234 . Nadone (Lahore) i. 601. Nellemboor (Malabar) ii. 294. 

Muga Nayakana Cotay ( Mysore ) Nagaraangalun/ [Mysore) ii. 380. Neliiseram (Malabar) ii. 287. 

ij. 37 i, N agar am (Circars) ii. 83. Nellore D. (Carnatic) ir. 424. 

Mugbs. See Arracan, ii. 800. Naggree (Sikkim) ii. 726. Nellore T. (Carnatic) ii. 425. 

Mubragaon ( Kumaon ) ii. 656. Naghery (Carnatic) ii. 432. Nemawar (Malwah) i. 755. 

Muktinath (Tibet) ii. 588. Nagjeery (Khan desk) ii. 103. Nepanl, ii. 661. 

Mulayne (Oude) i. 354. Nagne R\i. 643. Neptol Valley, ii. 674. 

Mulcapoor ( Bejapoor ) ii. 226. Nagone f Allahabad ) i, 329. Nerbudda R. i. 620. 

Mulchand K&Xnudy (Mooltan) i . 5 76 . Nagorbussy (Bahar) i. 273. Neriad (Gujerat) i. 694. 

Mulhara ( Allahabad ) i. 327. Nagore (Bengal) i. 160. Nerinjapettah (Coimbatoor) H. 391. 

* MulkamaiToor (Mysore) ii. 369. Nagore D. and T, (Ajmeer) i.535. Nernallab D. (Berar) ii. 113. 
Mulkan ( Lahore ) l 496. Nagore (Carnatic) ii. 459. Newahy ( Ajmeer ) i. 542. 

Mulcapoor (Berar) ii. 113. Nagotama ( Aurangabad ) ii. 152. Newty (Bejapoor) ii. 221. 

Mullahpoor (Oude) i. 352. Nagorcote. See Kangra, i. 500. Neyer D. (Gujerat) i. 623. 

Mullangur (Hyderabad) ii. 141. Nagpoor D. (Gundwana) ii. 27. Nbaurghur (Gujerat) i, 733. 

Mullaow ( Gujerat ) i. 682. Nagpoor T. (Gundwana) ii. 7. Nho (Agra) i. 405. 

Mullai (Afghanistan) ii. 562. Naban (Sutuleje) ii. 619. Niagtir (Gundwana) iL23. 

Mulligaum (Rhandesh) ii. 98. Nahanpara (Oude) i. 352. Nidgnll (Mysore) ii. 369. 

Munaar (Malabar) ii. 297. Nair (Berar) ii. 115. Nilkantba (Nepaul) ii. 698. 

Mundessor D. & T. (Malwah) i. 735. Nairs. See Malabar, ii. 272. Niti (Kumaon) ii. 661. 

Mundi ( Lahore ) i. 503. . Naldroog D. and T. (Beeder) ii. Nizam. See Hyderabad F. it 

Mundlah D. (Gundwana) U. 23. 119. 122. 

Mundlab T. ( Gundwana ) ii. 24. Nalgonda D. and T. (Hyderabad) Nlzampatam (Circars) ii. 93. 
Mundlayer (Agra) i. 387. ii* 138. Noakote (Nepaul) ii. 692. t 

Mundoo (Malwah) i. 7 53. Namburies. See Adanad and Ma- Noanagur (Gujerat) i. 653. 

Mundoo *T. (Malwah) 1 753. iabar, Noapoora (Gtjtraf) i. 724, 

Mundrah \Cutch) i. 596. Namcool (Salem) il. 395. Noelgunge (Oude) i. 349. 

Mimeah (Agra), i. 387. Nanda Prayaga (Gvrwal) U. 643, Nogurbera (Assam) ii 750. 

Mungal (Hyderabad) ii. 138. . Nandere D. and T. (Beeder) ii. 120 Nomurdie# D. (Maloochistsm) ii. 
Mungul (Sutuleje) ii 625. jNanzereb (Bejapoor) ii. 230. 534, ' 

Mungulwara (Bejapoor) ii. 233. Nappah (Gujerat) L 689 Notary (Bahar) i 251. , 

Muhgrowlee (Malwah) i. 735. Narangabad (Oude) i. 353. Noorabad i^gnr) 4, 385* 

Mungulbaut (Bengal) i 210. Nardinpett (Hyderabad) ii. 138. NoetgoolB. (Bfjapomr) ii 210. - 
Munipoor 3>. (Adjacent to Assam) Nariah (Orissa) ii. 46. Nootbahv* (Mootem) i. 571. 

ii. 765. Narnoul D. and T, (Agra) L 401, Noomagnr (Bengal) 1 179. 



INDEX. 

Painkhandi D, (Kutnaon) ii, 657, 
rainomjeung (Tibet) ii 586. 
Pakang (Nevaul) ii. 715. 

Falachy (Cmmbatoor) ii. 390. 
Palamcotta (Carnatic) ii. 483. 
.Palamcotta (Carnatic) ii. 4 45. 
Palamow D. (Bahar) i. 285. 
.Palamow T. ( Bahar ) i. 287. 

[ Paiapetty (Carnatic) ii. 468. 

Nummoonee (A urvngabad ) ii. 177 Palgunee (Bahar') i 212 

«• 340. M@LS ffi U 298 

m - NN« (GyJt) .626. 

2ft 14 ';, • PaUconda (cJatk) l m 

^nningpoor (Bgavoor) ii. 23B. Palkah (Lahore) i 499 
^f p00r D and T - (Mwltan) i , Palnaud D. (drears) ii. 93. 


Noon (Moolttm) i. 570. 
^nrwu tOmuiaaM) ii. 23. 
Nw»E(B eW )a.li6. 

S'WMtMiM) i. 334. 
Nnibabad (Delhi) i. 446. 
Nuldmgah (Bengal) i. 136. 
Numhuleycote ( Malabar ) ii 294 


O. 


Oclaseer (Gvjerat) i. 710. 
OdeypoorD. (Ajmcer) i. 547. 
Odeypoor T. (Ajmcer) i. 550. 
Odeypoor ( Gundwana ) ii. 19. 
Ogurrapura (Onssa) ii. 35. 
Okamundei D. (Gujerat) i. 656. 
Okirab (Bengal) i. 157. 

Olpar (Gvjerat) i. 711. 
Omeerseer (Cutch) i. 597. 
Oincrcuntuc (Gundwana) u. 16. 
Ometa (Gvjerat) i. 698. 
Omudwara D, (Malwah) i. 735. 
Oneil (Malwah) i. 738. 
Ongologur (Orissa) ii. 48. 

Ongole (Carnatic) ii. 426. 

Onora (Canara) ii. 263. 

Ooch (Mooltan) i. 559. 

Oochar (Allahabad) i. 331. 
Oochinadroog (Balagkaut) ii. 332 
Oojein (Malwah) i. 738. 

Oon (Gvjerat) i. 632. 

Oona ( Gvjerat ) i. 674. 

Oonaee (Gvjerat) i. 725. 

Ooniara (Ajmcer) i. 543. 

Ooaootta (Mysore) ii. 378. 

Oosoor (Mysore) ii. 375. 
Ootradurgum (Mysore) ii. 377. 
Ootrivaloor (Carnatic) ii. 448. 
Orissa P. ii. 31. 

Ossoheet (Delhi) i. 439. 

Oudanulla ( Bengal) i. 201. 

Oude P. i, 338. 

Qttde T. i. 350. 

Oudghir (Beeder) ii. 120. 

OisUer Lake (Cashmere) f. 512. 
Owlab ( Delhi ) i. 437. 


817 

IPeddapoor (drears) ii. 81. 

Pegu P. (Ava) ii. 796, 

Pep T. (At a) ii. 797. 

Peitapoor (Gvjerat) i. 694. 
Peinghee (Ava) ii. 794. 

Pemburty (Hyderabad) ii. 14p. 
Penacondab (Mysore) ii. 370. 
PennarK. (Balaghavt) ii. 343. 
Peramboor (Carnatic) ii. 472. 
Periaculium (Carnatic) ii. 468. 
Periapollam (Carnatic) ii. 449. 
eriapatam (Mysore) ii. 382. 
,/ermacoil (Carnatic) ii. 439. 
Pcrpenaad (Malabar) ii. 595. 
PerraindaD. (Aurangabad) ii. 178. 
errainda T. (Aurangabad) ii. 178 
ersauraah (Bahar) i. 273. 

*ersaim (Ava) ii. 800. 

|ertaubghur (Aurangabad) ii. 20 2. 

?C 553 l l hUr i. 


- ll. VO: 

1 Paloonshah (Hyderabad) ii. 138, 

|PaIpa D. and T. (Ncpaut) ii 696 
Palyad (Gvjerat) i. 647. 

Pampar (Beeder) ii. 119. 

Pamper ( Cashmere) i. 5 1 2. 

Pamour ( Carnatic ) ii. 428. 

I Panagur (Gundwana) ii 25. 

Panamgoody (Carnatic) ii. 484. 

I Panaur R. ii. 444. 

Panel, Berareh (C«*Wr) i. 513. *etlad (Gujerat) i.m 
Pandalanicourcliy(C«rao,,c) ii, 484 'etiahwad' (Maluah) i >36 
SSSSSff JL 296 ' ’ettycotta (Carnatic) li/Zd 

Vvminow (ft : oco 


|erwuttum (Balaghavt) ii. 340. 
’eshwa. 6’ce Maharattas, ii. 183. 
eshawer (Afghanistan) ii. 557. * 
etalnaig (Carnatic) ii. 483. 

*etlad ( Gvjerat ) i. 689. 

) n ^l..l 1 / » r i i. . ^ 


/ Ii. i. 

Paniput (Delhi) i. 425. 

Pannah '(Allahabad) i. 325. 

Pantura (Ceylon) ii 520. 

Panwell (Aurungabad) ii. 151. 

Parassen (Allahabad) i 332. 

Parkundy (Malwah) i. 736. 

Parkur (Mooltan) i 582. 

Pamellah (Bejapoor) ii, 226. 

Paro (Nepaul) ii. 736. 

Parsees. See Gujerat P. i. 604, 

Pars6nauth (Bahar) i. 285. 

Patpng (B™^) i. 2 10. Hindee Makoulah (Lahore) 

Patbree D. and T. (Beeder) ii. 121 Pindtamk (Gujerat) i 664 

Pa I 475 - ' Pi P' oud W™de*h) i ^M.' 

Patna (Bahar) ,. 260. Pinlv /OriW, i; an 

Patna (Gundwana) ii. 21. 

Patree ( Gujerat ) i. 634, 

Patn. See Lalita Patan, ii. 69 1 
Pattialah (Delhi) i. 463. 

/ A'.. V . . 


1. tUa 

Patun (Ajmeer) i. 546. 
Paughur ( Mysore ) ii. 370. 
Paughtoor (Bejapoor) ii. 234 
Paukputton (Lahore) i 496. 


’eyauney (Oude) i. 353. 
’eytahnD. and T. (tfepavl) ii. 701 
eytun D. and T. (Aurungabad) ii 
1 80. 

‘hakD, (Cashmere) i. 512. 

’bari (Tibet) ii.586. 

’hoolmurry (Aurungabad) ii. 1 77 
ilibeet (Delhi) i. 439. J * 
,Pinagra(S«/CT») ii. 397. 
iPindaries (Malwah) i. 759. 

I ^ nt J ee Dada Khan (Lahore) i. 490. 
Pindee Makoulali (Lahore) i. 489 
1 mdtanik (Gvjerat) ‘ 

[Piploud ( Khandesh ) 

Piply ( Orissa ) ii. 50. 

,Piply ( Bengal ) i. 152. 

Plassey (Bengal) i. 146. 

Pom (Nepaul) ii. 698. 

Point Palmiras ( Orissa ) ii. 47. 

Point de Galle (Ceylon) ii. 520 
Point Pedro (Ceylon) ii. 516. 
Poligars Territory (Carnatic) ii 468, 

Pondicberrr (Pnmr>ti^\ s: >»o a 


f * 

t (Bahar) I. 287. 
. a (Ava) U.*793. 
0oi* n. 


PaulSe-^T^)^:^. 'wSfrril 51 - 439 - 

Pwtoeniur D.ffAoad™*) ii. 103. Poana (fr,,,gabad)tl 96 
Paunderwart (Ovjirat) L 679. Poonakba (tijra,,) ! W K 
Paungnl (ffydrrahad) il. 137. Poona^.llL 

Poondur (Sutvleje) Ii. 028. 
Poorbttnder (Gujerat) l 605. 
’oorunpuor (Delhi) i. 439. 
Poorwab (Oude) i. 349. 

Poosa Saolee (Bejapoor) il 227, 
roovaloor (Carnatic) U.457. 


i, o/y, 

Paungul (Hyderabad) il. 137. 
Paunketra’ (Khandesh) U. 100. 
Pawanj^Hir (Bejnotr) ii. 226., 
PbwuB (Aunngabti) a 181. 
PaynGung»R.ii.H 2. 

Pecbor (Agra) 1,383. 
PwHabala^oor (Mytort) U. 372, 



818 

Pooshkur (Ajmter) i. 521. 

Porca (Travancore) ii. 320, 

Positra ( Gtjerat ) i. 664. 

Portonovo (Carnatic) ii. 446. . 
Porvear ( Travancorc ) ii, 320. 
Powaaghur. SeeChumpaneer, i.680. 
Pownee ( Gundwana ) ii. 27. 

Prome (Ava) ii. 795. 

Pubna ( Bengal ) i. 200. 

Pucbmunee (Gundwana) ii. 26. 
Pucbum D. (Cutch) i. 603. 
Puckely D. ( Lahore ) i, 486. 
Pucouloe (Bengal) i. 187. 
Puducotta ( Carnatic ) ii. 462. 
PullebTa (Allahabad) i. 327. 
Pulicat ( Carnatic ) ii. 436. 

Pulney ( Carnatic ) ii. 468. 

Pulwul (Delhi) i. 424. 

Punchaits. See Baroda, i. 698. 
Punchenee (Nepaul) ii. 719. 
Pundercourah (Berar) ii. 116. 
Punderpoor (Bejapoor) ii. 231. 
Punganoor ( Balagkaut ) ii. 346. 
PurneahD. ( Bengal ) i. 231. 
Purneah T. ( Bengal ) i. 237. 
Purruah (Bengal) i. 230. 

PuteUam (Ceylon) ii. 519. 
Puttunwar D. (Gujerat) i. 623. 
Puttan Somnauth (Gujerat) i. 670, 
Pyche ( Malabar ) ii. 292. 

Q. 

Quilon. See Coulan, ii. 321. 

E. 

Rabnabad (Bengal) i. 134. 
Racbouty ( Balagkaut ) ii. 346. 
Ragooghur (Mahvah) i. 733. 
Rahdunpoor (Gvjerat) i. 628. 
Rahoon (Lahore) i. 498. . 
Rahowree (Aurangabad) ii. 180. 
Raichoor D. (Btjapoor) ii. 233. 
Raichoor T. {Bejapoor) ii. 233. 
Raidroog (Balagkaut) ii, 334. 
Raisseen D. (Malwah) i. 754. 
Raisseen T. (Malwah) i. 755. 
Raja Chobans (Gundwana) ii. 15. 
Rajakera (Agra) i. 386. 
Rajamundry D. (Circars) ii. 78. 

. Rajamundry T. (Circars) ii. 80. 
Rajanagur (Bengal) i. 188. 
Rajapulpetta ,( Hyderabad ) ii. 137 
Raiapoor ( Aurangabad ) ii. 151. 
Rajamabal (Bengal) i. 200. 
Rajegur (Allahabad) i. 327. 
Rajode (Malwah) i. 73 6. 

Raioora (Gvjerat) i. 672. 
Rajpepla (Gujerat) l 712. 
Rajpoor (Bejapoor) ii. 215. 
Rajpootana P. 1,614. 


INDEX. 

lajsbaby D. (Bengal) i. 197. 
lama Cape (Bejapoor) ii. 224. 
lamdroog (Balaghaut) ii. 335. 
lamdvoog (Mysore) ii 369. 
lamgerry (Mj/sore) ii. 378. 
lamgbaut (Agra) i. 406. 
l&mgheer D. and T. ( Hyderabad ) 
ii. 141. 

amgbur D. (Bahar) i. 282. 
lamghur T. (Bahar) i. 285. 
lamgunga R. (Delhi) i. 432. 
lamgunge (Oude) i. 349. 
lamgur (Orissa) ii. 59. 
lamisseram (Carnatic) ii. 475. 
lamnad ( Carnatic ) ii. 474. 
lamnee (Kumaon) ii. 65 7. 
lamoo (Bengal) i. 174. 
lampoor (Delhi) i. 445. 
lampoor (Sutuleje) ii. 622. 
lampoora (Ajmeer) i. 542. 
laneali (Ajmeer) i. 525. 
langamatty (Bengal) i. 211. 
langoona (Ava) ii. 795. 
lannutsh ( Nepaul ) ii. 704. 
lantampoor ( Ajmeer ) i. 542. 
laree (Btjapoor) ii. 221. 
latgur ( Malwah ) i. 759. 
lattolaw (Gujarat) i. 676. 
laujpoor (Gvjerat) i. 686. 
Etaujcote (Gujerat) i. 654. 
[laujghur (Ajmeer) i. 545. 

Raurab (Nepaul) ii. 704. 

Ravey or Hydraotes, R. i. 484. 
Rawan's HradLake (Tibet) ii. 591 
Rawil Pindee (Lahore) i. 489. 
Raygaut ( Lahore ) i. 498. 
Raygopaulpet ( Hyderabad ) ii. 141 
Raygunge ( Bengal ) i. 227. 
Reechna Doabch (Lahore) i. 494. 
Reher (Delhi) i. 447. 

Relitul ( Gurwal ) ii. 644. 
Resoulabad (Agra) i, 374. 

Reuna (Allahabad) i. 329. 

Rewah D. and T.( Allahabad) i. 316 
Rewary (Delhi) i. 424. 

Rbotas (Bahar) i. 281. 

Rising (Nepaul) ii. 697. 

Rodauk (Tibet) ii. 601. 
Rogonautbpoor ( Bahar) .i. 288. 
Rohilcund D. (Delhi) i. 427. 
Rohur (Cvtch) i. 599. 

Rolpah (Nepaul) ii. 702. 
Rooderpoor (Delhi) i. 439. 
Rooroo (Agra) I. 374. 

Ropoor (Delhi) i. 466. 

Rotnk (Delhi) i. 461. 

Rotas ( Lahore) i. 49 1 . * 

Roween 3>. (Sutuleje) ii. 632. 
Roy Bareily (Oude) i. 350. 
Ruanelii (Ceylon) ii. 515. 
Rudraprayaga (Gurwal) ii. 642. 
Ruengurra ( Allahabad ) i. 329, 


lumpah (Circars) ii. 82. 

Lunabah (Khtmdesh) it 101. 
lungapoor ( Hyderabad ) ii. 140. 
ungara (Bejapoor) ii. 221. 
lungpoor D. ( Bengal) i. 201. 
lungpoor T. (Bengal) i. 210. 
lungpoor (Assam) ii. 751, 

Elunn (Cutch) i. 593. 

Hunnode (Malwah) i. 735. 
lupnagur (Ajmeer) i. 521. 
Lussatughur (Bejapoor) ii. 214. 
lutlam (Malwah) i. 736. 
lutnagherry (Bejapoor) ii. 215. 
Eluttengerry (Mysore) ii. 370. 
Eluttungur (Ajmeer) i. 552. 
lutfunpoor (Gundwana) ii 22. 
lutt unpoor (Gujerdt) i. 709. 
Lyacotta (Salem) iii397. 

Lyaguddy (Circars) \ii. 73. 
lyebaugh D. and T. Btjapoor) ii, 

yeglmr ( Aurangabad ) ii. 201. 
yepoor (Gundwana) ii. 23. 
ynabad (Bengal) i. 136. 

S. 

iacheen (Gujerat) i. 723. 

Jackur D. and T. (Bejapoor) ii. 233. 
Madias (Carnatic) ii. 451. 
laganeer ( Ajmeer ) i. 546. 

>agor Isle ( Bengal ) i. 127. 
Sabarunpoor ED. (Delhi) i. 447. 
>aharunpoor T. ( Delhi) i. 449. 
ailoor (Aurangabad) ii. 177. 

•t. Thome (Carnatic) ii. 449. 
Saipoor ( Gundwana ) ii. 14. 
Salanghur (Ajmeer) i. 552. 

Salem P. ii. 394. 
lalem T. ii. 395. 

Salgrains. See Gunduck R. i. 27 1 . 
Salemow ( Malwah ) i. 759. 
Salianah ( Nepaul ) ii, 702. 
Salivaucum (Carnatic) ii. 448. 
Saltier (Aurangabad) ii. 177. 
Saloon (Allahabad) l 33 7. 
Salsettelsle (Aurungabad) ii. 170. 
Salt Range of Mountains, ii, 552. 
Samber (Ajmeer) i. 541, 

Samgaum ( Carnatic ) ii, 426. 
Sandy (Oude) l 354. 

Sanjore (Ajmeer) i. $54. 

Sanore. See Shanoor, ii. 237. 
Santipoo r (Bengal) i, 146. 
Sanyasigotta (Bengal) i. 2)0. 
Saowlee (Gvjerat) i. 698. 

Saptari X>. (Nepaul) ii. 715. 
Sarangpoor 0. and T. (Malwah) 
754. 

SarapiUy (Carnatic) ii. 426. u 

Saraswati R. i. 466, 

Sarbaut (Bengal) i. 160, 



INDEX; 


819 

Sarjew R. SeeGoggra R. i. 347. Sewee 0. ( Afghanistan ) ii. 565. [Sisgoojah B. and T. (Gundwana) 
Sarowy 0. and T. (Ajmeer) i. 552. Sewistan 0, (Baloockistan) il 534. 1 C 17. 

Sarrowly (Oude) i. 358. Seyrah (Gujerat) i. 684. Sirhind (Delhi) i, 465. 

Sarun 0. (Bahar) i, 274. Seysuna (Ajmeer) i. 545. Sirtnorc 0. (Sutulgc) ii. 617* 

Saanee (Agra) i. 405. Sbahabad (Delhi) i. 465. Sirrenagur (Gundwana) ii. 25. 

Sasseram (Bahar) i. 281. ShahabadD. (Bahar) i. 279. Sirsab (Ajmeer) i. 525. 

Satahung (Nepaul) ii. 698. Sbababad (Oude) i. 354. Sittivacca (Ceylon) H. 515. 

Satarah (Bejapoor) ii. 227. Shahjehanpoor (Delhi) i. 437. Sivana Samudra (Coimbatoor ) ii. 

Satgong (Bengal) i. 142. Shahjehanpoor (Malwah) i. 745. 391. 

Satimangalum (Coimbatoor) ii. 392. Shahzadpoor (Oude) i. 352, Soandwara (Malwah) i. 737. 

Saubermattee R. i. 621. Shairghur (Delhi) i. 437. Soanghur (Khandesh) ii. 99. 

Saugree (Sutuleje) ii. 629. Sbamlee (Delhi) i. 425. Soderah (Lahore) i. 494. 

Sangur 0. and T. ( Malwah ) i. 758. Shabnoor (Bejapoor) ii. 237. SohagepoorB. and T. (Gundwana) 
Sautghu r (Salem) ii. 398. Shah poor ah (Ajmeer) i. 546. ii. 16. 

Sautneir (Gundwana) ii. 27. Shawgur (Aurangabad) ii. 180. Sohaul (Allahabad) i. 329. 

Sauwar (Ajmeer) i. 522. • Shawpoor ( Gundwana ) ii. 15. Sohaya (Malwah) i. 757. 

Sawuntwarree. 6'eeWarree, ii. 216. Sheebgunge (Bengal) i. 200. Sohna (Delhi) i. 424. 

Saymbrumbacum (Carnatic) ii. 450. Sheergotta (Bahar) i. 269. Sohnpoor (Gundwana) U. 21. 

Sealkote (Lahore) i. 494. Sbegbul (Tibet) ii. 587. Solapoor 0. (Aurangabad) ii. 179. 

Secundra (Agra) i. 403. Sheikpoor (Bahar) i. 264. Solapoor T. (Aurungabad) a. 179. 

Secundra (Delhi) i. 427. Shekarpoor D. and T. (Afghanistan) Soiiman Mountains,. ii. 552. 

Secunderabad. See Hyderabad. ii. 565. Sommee (Gvjerat) i. 631. 

Sedasheogbur (Canard) ii. 263. Sbekawuttee D. (Ajmeer) i. 535. Somnanth. See Put'-am Somnautn. 
Sedili (Bootan) ii. 738. Shekoabad (Agra) i. 375. Sonda (Mooltan) i. 578. 

Seebah (Lahore) i. 502. Shcmbeghewn ( Ava ) ii. 794. Bone R. i. 259. 

Seebgungc (Bengal) i. 231. Sheopoor (Ajmeer) i. 543. Boneput (Delhi) i. 424. 

Seedly (Nepaul) ii. 711. Shepoory (Agra) i. 383. Bonekutch (Malwah) i. 745. 

Seedapoor ( Bejapoor ) ii. 234. Shevagunga (Carnatic) ii. 473. Boomeer (Malwah) i. 735. 

Seehore ( Gvjerat ) i. 675. Shevagurry (Carnatic) ii. 468. Boonda 0. (Canara) ii. 260. 

Seekur Khuttree (Nepaul) ii. 709 Shevelpatore (Carnatic) ii. 468. oondoor (Balaghaut) n. 332. 

Seena It. ii. 179. Sholavanden (Carnatic) ii. 472. Soonee ( Bcrar ) ii. 116. 

Seeore ( Malwah ) i. 757. Shujawulpoor (Malwah) i. 754. Soongbur (Gujerat) i. 724 

Seera ( Ajmeer ) 526, Shundrabandy (Carnage) ii. 472. Soonergone (Bengal) 1 . 187. 

Seerdbuna (Delhi) i. 454. Sibnibas (Bengal) i. 147. Soonel (Malwah) i. 736. 

Seerpoor (Bengal) i. 199. Sicacole. See Cicacole. Soonkaur (Aurungabad) n. 180. 

Seerpoor (Khandesh) il 99. Siclygully (Bengal) i. 201. Soonth ( Gujerat ) i. 684. 

Seerwal (Bejapoor) ii. 229. Sidout D. (Balaghaut) ii. 345. Boopoor (Oude) i. 358. 

Seetacoond (Bengal) i. 173. Sidout T. (Balaghaut) ii. 345. Soorapoor (Bejapoor) n. 233. 

Sehwan 0. and T. (Mooltan) i. Sidpoor ( Gujerat ) i. 628. Soory (Bengal) i. 160. 

571. Sikar (Ajmeer) i. 537. Sooty (Bengal) i. 167. 

Seiks. See Lahore, i. 468. Sikkim i). ii. 720. Soreth 0. (Gvjerat) i. 667. 

Seik States (Delhi) i. 461. Sikkim T. ii. 726. Soriapett (Hyderabad) ii. 138. 

Semanagur (Oude) 1 353. Silhet 0. (Bengal) i. 191. Souvera (Circars) ii. 69. 

Sengaunah (Agra) i. 401. Silhet T. (Bengal) i. 197. Sources of the Ganges 0. (Gurwal) 

Senwaho (Malwah) i. 735. Sillabmew (Ava) ii. 793. ii- 643. 

Seouny (Gundwana) ii. 26. Simoga (Mysore) ii. 367. Sravana Belgula ( Mysore ) U. 381. 

Sera (Mysore) ii. 371. Sinde D. (Mooltan) i. 561. Sri Permaturu (Carnatic) u. 450. 

Serajegunge (Bengal) i. 190. Sinde Sagor 0. (Lahore) i. 491. Srirouttra (Agra) i. 387. 

Serampoor ( Bengal ) i. 63. Sindia. See Oojein, i. 738. States adjacent to Assam, ii. /52 

Serampoor (Bengal) i. 160. Sindouse (Agra) i. 376. Subbulgbur (Agra) l 386. 

Seran (Sutuleje) ii. 622. Sindwah (Khandesh) ii, 103. Subbulghur (Delhi) i. 447. 

Serinagur or Gurwal 0. ii. 633. Singaurumcotta (Circars) ii. 75, Subroy (Cutch) i. 596. 
SerinagurT. (Gurwal) ii. 639. Singhboom 0. and T. (Orissa) ii SubunreekaR. ii. 34. 

Sedngapatam (Mysore) ii. 361, 34. Suckutpoor (MaMcah) i 732. 

Seringham (Carnatic) il. 464. Singbea (Bahar) i. 273. Sugouly (Bahar) l 279. 

Seronge (Malwah) i. 734, Singhericondba (Carnatic ii. 426 Sujanpoor (Lahort) i. 502, 

Seroor (Aurungabad) ii. 182. Singbur ( Aurungabad ) ii. 200, Sukaid (Lahore) i. 503 

Scry ah ( Gujerat ) i. 655. Singole ( Allahabad ) i. 334, Sultangunge ((Jude) i 349. 

Hearth (Allahabad) i. 328. Singrowlah D. (Gundwana) il 15 Sultanpoor (Lahore) 1498. 

Sevemdroog (Bejapoor) ii, 213. Sinnore (Gujerat) 1 711. Sultanpoor (Khandesh) il. 103* 

Bevemdroog (Mysore) ii. 378. Sion (Aurungabad) ii. 169. Sumaun (Agra) i. 376* 

Sewan (Bahar) 1 278* Sirdbar (Gujerat) L 647* Sumba (Aurungabad) il 178. 



INDEX. 


830 

Sumbhulpoor D. (htndwana) ii. 20 
SumbhulpoorT. (Gtmdwana) ii. 21 
Sumbul (Delhi) 1 440. 

Sumbul R. See Chumbul, i. 362. 
Sumnauth. See Puttan Somnauth 
i. 670. 

Sumpter (Agra) i. 382. 

Sunaeela (Oude) i. 353. 

Sundeep Isle ( Bengal ) i. 175. 
Sunderbunds (Bengal) i. 123. 
Sungumnere (Aurangabad) ii. 177 
Sumguranere T. (Aurangabad) ii, 
177. 

Sungur (Afghanistan) ii. 564. 
Sutikra D. (Mooltan) i. 579. 
Surajegur (Bengal) i. 251. 
Surajepoor (Allahabad) i. 336. 
Surat I). (Gujerat) i. 715. 

Surat T. (Gujerat) i. 718. 

Surout (Agra) i. 393. 

Surrpol (Bengal) i. 160. 

Susung (Bengal) i. 190. 

Sutalury (Bengal) i. 134. 
Sutcliana ( Gujerat ) i. 655. 
Sutuleje R. i. 486. 

Sutuleje and Jumna D. ii. 607. 
Swally (Gujerat) i. 723. 

Sylah (Gujerat) i. 649. 

Syriam (Ava) ii. 800. 

T. 

Taclagur (Nepaul) ii. 704. 

Tahej (Catch) i. 600. 

Tahmoor (Oude) i. 352. 

Tahrah (Cutch) i. 597. 
Taimboomy (Aurungabad) ii. 179 
Taiveram (Carnatic) ii. 468. 
Talnere (Kkandesh) ii. 101. 
Tamberacherry (Malabar) ii. 294. 
Tambehkan (Nepaul) ii. 692. 
Tamlingtar (Nepaul) ii. 713. 
Tamul, ii, 248. 

Tanahung (Nepaul) ii. 695. 
Tandah (Bengal) i. 230. 

Tanjore B. (Carnatic) ii. 452. 
Tanjore T. (Carnatic) ii. 456. 
Tanna (Aurungabad) ii. 173. 
Tanore (Malabar) ii. 296. 
Taraghur, See Ajmeer T. i. 520. 
Tarhar (Allahabad ) i. 302. 
Taasisudon (Bootan) ii. 735. 
Tatta D, (Mooltan) i. 572. 

Tatta T. (Mooltan) i. 574. 
Tattora ( Bgapoor) ii. 231. 
Taudicomboo (Carnatic) ii. 468. 
Taujgaon ( Bpapoor) ii 227. 
Taujepoor ( Bengal ) i 238. 
Taundah (Oude) I. 352. 

Taundah (Gujerat) i. 686. 
Taundla (Malwak) i. 736. 

Teary See Tehree, i 333* 
Teesta R. (Bengal) l 208. 


. Teesgaon (Aurungabad) ii. 180. 

. Tehrwarra (Gujerat) i. 632. 
Tehinchiew R. ii. 735. 

Tehree (Allahabad) i. 333. 

, Tejareh D. (Agra) i. 393. 
Telliagury (Bahar) i. 254. 
TelingAna, ii. 121. 

Tellichery (Malabar) ii. 292. 
Tengale (Ceylon) ii. 521. 

| Tengayapatam (Travancore) ii. 320. 

, Terriani (Bahar) i. 276. 

Thakacote (Tibet) ii 588. 
Thancote (Nepaul) ii. 692. 

Teshoo Loomboo (Tibet) it 584. 
Thakoor Goomba (Tibet) ii. 587. 
Thaiiusar (Delhi) i. 465. 

Theraud ( Gujerat ) i, 624. 

Tbiagur (Carnatic) ii. 443. 

Tibet, ii. 566. 

Tibet, Little, See Labdaqk, ii. 
600. 

Tickary ( Bahar ) i. 268. 

Tiliarab (Delhi) i. 467- 
Timerycotta (Circars) ii. 94. 
i Tinnevelly D. (Carnatic) ii. 476. 
Tinnevelly T. (Carnatic) ii. 483. 
Tingri (Tibet) ii. 58 7. 

Tiperab D. (Bengal) i. 176. 
Tirhoot D. (Bahar) i. 269. 
Tirtapuri (Tibet) ii. 592. 

Tirwan Angany (Malabar) i. 296. 
Toka (Aurungabad) ii. 149. 
Tondiman D. ( Carnatic ) ii. 460. 
Tonglio (Ava) ii. 79G. 

Took '(Ajmeer) i. 542. 

Tonoru (Mysore) ii. 379. 

. Toolseepoor (Oude) i. 352. 
Toombudra R. ii. 209. 

Toomoon (Malwah) i. 733. 
Torbaila ( Ijahore) i. 487. 
Tooreyoor (Carnatic) ii. 465. 
Toroff (Bengal) i. 197. 

Torvakairy (Mysore) ii 381. 
Tournagbaut ( Brjapoor ) ii. 230. 
Tranquebar (Carnatic) il. 457. 
Travancore D. ii. 309. 

Travancore T. ii. 320. 

Trimbuck (Aurungabad) ii. 177. 
Tricbinopoly D. (Carnatic) ii. 463 
Tricbinopoly T. (Carnatic) ii. 463 
Tricaloor ( Carnatic ) ii. 443. 
Trincomalee (Ceylon) ii. 523. 
Trinomalee (Carnatic) ii. 438. 
Tripatoor (Salem) ii. 397. 
Tripatoor (Carnatic) ii. 462. 
Tripasoor (Carnatic) ii. 448. 
Tripetty ( Carnatic ) ii. 431. 
Tripontary (Cochin) ii. 308. 
Trivaloor (Carnatic) ii. 460. 
Trivanderam (Travancore) ii. 320 
Triyatoor (Carnatic) ii. 435. 
Trivially (Carnatic) ii. 442, 
Trividy ( Carnatic ) il 443. 


Tuduru (Mysore) 11. 868. 

~"ulcavery (Malabar) il 290. 
’ulwundy (Lahore) i. 498. 

'ulgong ( Aurungabad ) ii. 199. 
uUaja (Gujerat) i. 672. 
ulluck (Mysore) ii. 3(>9. 
ulsung (Bpapoor) ii. 232. 
'umlook (Bengal) i. 142. 

Tunga R. ii. 365. 

Tuppel (Agra) i. 406. 

“’uptee R. i. 621. » 

‘urivacaray (Mysore) ii. 37). 
Turrah ( Gujerat ) i. 632. 

Tuticorin (Carnatic) ii. 484. 
wenty-four Pergunnahs D.( Bengal ) 
i.#143. 

’wenty-four Rajas ( Nepaul ) ii. 
694. \ 

Twenty-two Rajas (Nepaul) ii. 701. 


u. \ 

Jdlpoo (Cttnara) ii. 268. 
Jmber (Aurungabad) ii. 180. 
Ummcrapoor (Aia) ii. 789. 
Umlyalla (Gujerat) i. 698. 
Undes D. (Tibet) ii. 593. 
Upadrang (Nepaul) ii. 709. 
Ursana (Agra) i. 400. 


V. 

Vakaleer ( Mysore ) ii. 374. 
Vadagarry ( Carnatic ) ii. 484. 
Vadagherry (Malabar) ii. 293. 
Vadavati R. ii. 365. 

ayloor (Salem) ii. 395. 

Veergoon (Cutch ) i. 596. 
Veesararee (Gujerat) i. 724. 
Veh? D. (Cashmere) i. 512. 
Vellore (Carnatic) ii. 433. 

Vellum (Carnatic) ii. 457. 
Vencatigherry (Salem) ii. 398. 
Veniambady (Salem) ii. 398. 
Veramally ( Carnatic ) ii. 465. 
Verdacbelum (Carnatic) ii. 445. 
Versovab (Aurungabad) ii. 173. 
Veypar (Carnatic) ii. 483. 
Victoria Fort ( Bejapoor ) ii. 212. 

vinJhyTMouutaing, i, 3 24. 

agoria (Bjapoor) ii. 221 . 
Viracbipura (Carnatic) ii. 433. 
Virapeuy (Cochin) ii. 307. 
Virnaugh (Cashmere) l 512. 
Vizagapatam X>. (Circars) ii. 73* 
Vizigapatam T. (Circars) ii. 74. 
Viziadroog (Bejapoor) ti. 214. 
Vizianagrum (Circars) Si. 78. 
VIzianagur (Circars) ii. 69. 
Vklerabad (Lahore) 1494, 
Vokxmda (Carnatic) Si. 451. 



w. 

W»*urD. (Catch) i. goo. 

SHRftfflS 4 * 

Wa!ura ii. 374. 

Wandia (CirfcA) i. 602. 
Wandipoor (Bootan) ii. 73 6 . 

U andiwash ( Carnatic ) ii, 437 
Vankaneer (Gttjerat) i. 640 
Wanny D. (Ceylon) ii. 525. 

■ and T - &****> 
Warree ( Bejapoor ) ii. 216. 

Warrior (Carnatic) ii. 451 . 
Warrunah (Berar) ii n; 


INDEX, 

Warye (Guierat) 634. 
Wassotah ( Bejapoor ) ii, 229. 

aii£ur I X (Gvjerat) i, 679, 
Waujpoor ( Gvjerat ) i. 712. 

i Wamil ( Gvjerat ) i. 635. 

| Werrear D. (Gvjerat) i, 628. 

, Weyre (^ rfl ) { m 

Why z (Bejapoor) ii. 229. 
Wombmello rt, (Salem) ii, 395. 
W° o ny (Berar) ii, jJ6. 
Wooratla (Circars) ii. 75, 

H ow (Gvjerat) i, 625. 
^owamia (Gvjerat) i. 651. 

Y rissa (Mooltan) i. 5 77. 
VVudwan ( Gvjerat ) i, 649. 


wi b ft ( ^ r) iiuo - 

Wycodoo ( Carnatic) ii. 484. 

^ ynaad D. ( Malabar ) ii. 293 . 
^ yraghor ( Gundwana ) ii, 28, 


821 


Y. 

Wnangheoum (Ava) ii. 794, 
Ycllapoor ( Canara ) ii. 261 
Yertnagoodum (Circars) ft 81. 

2 . 

Jaffmbad (Allahabad) i.31S. 
Zyghur ( Bejapoor ) ii. 214. 



GLOSSARY 


N. B. To save the trouble of reference, and to prevent the Glossary from 
expanding to too great a size, words of rare occurrence are explained -in the 
body of the work (within a parenthesis) as they occur.# 


ABAD — Abode, residence. 

Abkarry — Taxes or duties on the manufacture and 
sale of spirituous liquors and intoxicating drugs. 

Adawlet — Justice, equity; a court of justice. 

Allah — God, in Arabic and Persian. 

Ameer — A nobleman. 

Anna — The sixteenth part of a rupee. 

Aumildar — The holder of an office, an agent or 
functionary. 

Auruxg — T he place v here goods are manufactured. 

Baboo — A Hindoo title of respect. 

Bag — A Bengal bag of rice weighs 164 pounds. 

Bairaggies — Hindoo devotees, votaries of Vishnu. 

Bala-ghaut — A bove the Ghauts, in contradistinction 
to Payeenghant, below the Ghauts. The terms ge- 
nerally refer to the high central table laud in the 
south of India, and the modern province of the 
Carnatic. 

Banyan — A Hindoo merchant or shopkeeper. 

Batta— Deficiency, discount, allowance to troops in 
the field. 

Bazar — Daily markets. In Bengal it is not unusual 
to have in them a haut, where a number of petty 
venders, besides the established shopkeepers, as- 
semble, 

Bega — A land measure equal in Bengal to about the 
third part of an acre; but varying in different 
provinces. The common Ryoty bega in Bengal 
contains only 1600 square yards. 

Begum — A lady, princess, woman of rigb rank. 

Bowrie — A well that has steps to descend j those 
without steps are named Kooah. 

Brahmin — The first or sacerdotal caste among the 
Hindoos. 

Buodick — The term Buddick is used in conjunction 
with Dacoit, Cozauk, and Thug, as a description 
of a notorious class of public robbers. 

Bukshee — Paymaster ; commander in chief. 

Buno — A band, an embankment. 

Bunder — A port or barbour. 

Bungalow — A commodious dwelling erected by 
Europeans in Bengal, and extremely well suited 
to the climate. It entirely consists of wood, bam- 


boos, mats, and thatch, and may be completed in 
a very short time, and at a moderate expense. 

Burkindazes — Darters of lightning, matchlock- 
men. 

Bhyaud— -Brotherhood. \ 

Candy — The Bombay candy weighs 560 pounds. 

Caxoxgof. — An officer of government, whose duty it 
was to keep a register of all circumstances relating 
to the land revenue, and, when called upon, to 
declare the customs of each district, the nature of 
the tenures, the quantity of land in cultivation, 
the nature of the produce, the amount of rent 
paid, &c. 

Cauzi — A Mahommedan judge or justice, who oc- 
casionally officiates as a public notary. 

Chakk — The conch shelL 

Choar — A robber. 

CnoKEYDAR — A watchman. 

Choultry (In the native language Chauvadi.) — A 

E lace of accommodation for travellers ; the Ma- 
ommedans call them Serai; and they are also 
named Dhumimsallas. 

hout — A fourth part of the clear revenue, a tribute 
formerly levied on certain 6tates by the Maharattas, 
as a condition of their abstaining from plun- 
dering. 

Chowby — A whisk to keep off - flies. They are 
either made of the Tibet cow's tail, peacock's 
feathers, or ivory shavings, set in a handle two 
feet long. 

Ciiu nam —Lime. The Madras Chun am made of 
calcined shells is considered the best in India. 
Circar— In Hindostan a certain number of villages 
form a pergunnah, a certain number of pergun- 
nohs, comprehending a tract of country equal to a 
moderate sized English county, is denominated a 
Chuckla; of these a certain number and extent 
form a Circar, and a few Cireara form a grand 
division, province, or soubah. This word occa- 
sionally means the government, and is also much 
used by Europeans to designate a Hindoo writer 
or accomptant, in which case it is usually written 
Sirkar, 



GLOSSARY. 


823 


Cora— The fibres of the coco-nut husk. 

Cost (Karoh or Krosa ) — A corrupt term used by 
Europeans to denote a road measure of about two 
miles, but varying in different parts of India. 
Major Rennell values the coss at 190 statute miles 
to 100 cosses. 

Coo lies — Labourers, porters. 

Corgb — A score. 

Cowry — A small shell which passes as money. 
Cozauks — Robbers on horseback. 

Chore — Ten millions. , 

Curnum — The village accountant or register. 
Cutcherby — A court of justice j also the public office 
where the rents are paid, and other business re- 
specting revenue transacted. 

Cutwal — The chief police oflfber in a large city. 

Dacoits — Gang robbers. 

Dam or Daum — A copper coin the 25th part of a 
pice, or according to some an ideal money the 
40th part of a rupee. During the reign of Aureng- 
zebe 48 dams made one rupee. 

Deccan — From a Sanscrit word strictly signifying 
the south, but applied by the Mahommedan his- 
torians to the country between the Nerbudda and 
Tuptee rivers. 

Dewan — The head officer of finance and revenue, 
almost always a Hindoo ; also a prime minister. 
Dewanny — By this title the East India Company 
ore receivers general in perpetuity of the revenues 
of Bengal, Bahar, and Orissa, under a grant ob- 
tained from the Great Mogul in A. D. 1765 j the 
Bengal year 117J. 

Dewanny Adawlet — A court for trying revenue and 
other civil causes. 

Doab— A ny tract of country included between two 
rivers. 

Dobash — One who speaks two languages ; an inter- 
preter. 

Durbar — A court or place in which a sovereign Or 
viceroy gives audience. 

Fakeek — A Mahommedan religious mendicant or 
devotee. 

Firmaun — An order, mandate. 

Foudjdar — A military superintendant or commander. 
Fusly — What relates to the harvest or seasons of the 
year. 

Fusly Khereef — The autumnal season or harvest 
for rice, millet, &c. 

Fusly Rubber— T he spring season or harvest for 
pease, wheat, &c. 

Futweh — A judicial decree, sentence, or judgment, 
particularly when delivered by a Mufti or doctor of 
Mahommedan law. 

. Gentoo — A name derived from the Portuguese word 
v*, gentio, which signifies gentile in the scriptural 
| sense. At Madras the term' is used to designate 
% the language and people of TeKngmna. 

Ghaut— A pass through a mountain, but generally 
applied to any extensive chain of hflk. 


Ghee — Butter clarified by boiling. 

~i odown — A warehouse, from the Malay word Gadong. 

Goomty — Windingj the name of many rivers in 
Hindostan. 

Gooroo — A spiritual guide among the Hindoos. 

Gosains — Hindoo devotees ; they are also named 
Sanyassies. 

ram — A village} the termination of many names 
of places. 

Gunge — A granary or depot. In Gunges the chief 
commodities sold are grain and the necessaries of 
life, and generally by wholesale : they often in- 
clude bazars and hauts, where the articles are sold 
by retail, and in great variety. It is a very com- 
mon termination of the names of towns in Bengal, 
and some of the adjacent provinces, and generally 
applied to a place where there is water carriage. 

Gurry — A native fortification, generally consisting 
of a wall flanked with towers. 

Hakim — A commander, governor, ruler, master, the 
governing authority in a province. 

Haut — A market which in Bengal is held on certain 
days only, and resorted to by petty venders and 
traders. They are established in open plains where 
a flag is erected on the day and at the place of 
purchase and sale. 

Jaggery— S ugar in its coarse state. 

Jaghirk — An assignment of the government share 
of the produce of a portion of land to an indivi- 
dual, either personal, or for the support of a public 
establishment, particularly of a military nature. 

Jbel — A shallow lake or morass. 

Jog IBS — Hindoo devotees. 

Jumma — The wholej the total of a territorial as- 
sessment. 

Jungle — Land covered with forest trees, thick im- 
penetrable brushwood, creeping plants, and coarse 
rank vegetation. 

Khas — Private, peculiar; reVenue collected imme- 
diately by government without the agency of 
zemindars- 

Khetri ( Cshatriya ) — The second or military caste of 
the Hindoos. 

Khelaut — A robe of Honour with which princes 
confer dignity. 

Khootba—Is a part of the Mahommedan Bervice in 
which the king of the country is prayed for. In- 
serting a prince's name in the Khootba, and stamp- 
ing it on the current coin, are reckoned in the east 
the most certain acknowledgments of sovereignty, ,, 

Killadar — Warder of a castle ; commander of a fort. 

Koit (a provincial corruption of Kayastha) — A mixed 
tribe of Hindoos, whose profession is generally 
writing and accounts. Most of the Banyans and 
Sirkars of Calcutta are of this class. 

Lack— One hundred thousand. 

Lascar — Properly a camp follower. 

Looty— A plunderer. 


m 



GLOSSARY. 


Madkissa — A college. Poo* (Pura ) — A town, place, dp residence; the ter- 

Maha — G reat. mination of many names in Bengal and the adja- 

Mahal — A small district or department ; a terri- cent provinces. 

torial subdivision. vJPotail — T he head man of a village Who collects the 

Malgoozab— A person who pays rent or revenue. 1 rents, and has the general superintendence. 

Mauza — A village. IPunchait — A jury or five, 

Maund— A measure of weight in India. At Madras Pundit — A learned Brahmin, 
it weighs 25 pounds ; at Bombay 28 ; at Surat Pykes — Foot messengers and watchmen $ also the 
40 ; and a pucka or double* maund 80. In Bengal ancient miHtia under the zemindars, 
the factory maund may be estimated at 80 pounds. 

Mblah — An assemblage of pilgrims $ also a fair. „ , , . . . 

Mocurrkry— A s applied to land, means land let on Raja ~ 7 Kid ?' V Tm ?*> chieftain, nobleman i ; a title m 
a fixed lease. ancient tomes given only to chiefs of the military 

Mofussil — The subordinate divisions of a district, in „ ca8te - „ . , _ , _ „ 

contradistinction to the term Sudder, which implies * POOT8 ( from Rajaputra , the offspring of a king ) — 
the chief seat of government ; also the interior of £ name , whlch 8tr f % to the 

the country as opposed to the town. hl S her classe , ! of ‘b e military [tnbe, but which u 

Mufti — The Mabommedan law officer who declares n now a / ssurae( 0I } ver y „ “/Hf t reten8lon8 - 

the sentence. Ranny (a corruption of Rajnt)~\\ queen, pnncess ; 

Mitndul — A circle or division of country : also the _ w ^ e a ® B j a - , \ 

head mao of a village. Rowanah-A permit or passport. \ 

M un sir — A native judge or justice, whose decision's RmmE-The name of a silver coni of comnaratively 
are limited to suits for personal property not ex- “ odera turrenc yi for . lt “ ^markable «“» *•*» 

ceeding 50 rupees do not exist any specimens in that metal struck 

Musmm-A throne,' chair of state. 8Dtcrior * tbe establishment of the Mahommedan 

J power in India, while a great many m gold have 

Nabob-A deputy or .viceroy under the^Mogul. P r< f rved { " . In „ cal . c . u : 

Naoub, N.fidRE, Nuoour, or &«uE.f-A town or lalin « th ? . valu * <* a ™C“ SJF&P 

city , the termination of m*»names: money sixteen per cent, must be added to the 

N.XAM-Wrdcr, arrangement ; an arranger. 8UU1 - whlch “ nT . erta «t to current rupees (an imag.- 

Nizamut Anawwr-The court of criminal justice. nar f *°“ ^“ ed •* 2, )> *“ °J. w i? lch 8° “ the 

Noddy — A river; the termination of many names. pound sterling. The Last India Company a ac- 

&ULLAH— A natural canal or small branch' of a river; cou “ ts are ke P* a * the following fixed rates of 

also a streamlet, rivnlet, or water course. ^change, viz. 2s. the current rupee; 2«. 3d. he 

NuzzEB-An offering or present made to a superior. Bombav ro,,ee; 5l ' the S P an,sh do “ ar * «»■ 8d ' * he 


Bombay rupee; 5s. the Spanish dollar; 6s. Sd . the 
Chinese tael \ and 8s. the pagoda. 

Ryot— P easant, cultivator, subject. 


PADDY-Rice in the busk. A ou ^ 

Pagoda — This name is applied by Europeans to Hin- 
doo tenmles and places* of worship, but not by Sanyasbies— Hindoo devotees and mendicants. 


the Hindoos dhemaebres, who have no such appella- 'Sayer— Variable imposts, such as customs, duties, 
tion, It is the name also of a gold coin, principally tolls, &c. 


tion, It is the name also of a gold coin, principally [ tolls, 8tc. 

in tbeaoutb of India, called Varaha by the Hindoos, 'Sebundy— An irregular native soldier, or local militia 
and Hoon.by the Mahommedani. man, generally employed in the service of the re- 

Pariar — A term used by, the Europeans in India to venue and police, 
designate the outcastes of the Hindoo tribes, and Seer— A weight, which varies all over India. In 
also any thing vile. Bengal there are 40 to a maund. 

Patan — A name generally applied in Hindostan to Seids — Descendants of Mahommed. 

the Afghan tribes; but the derivation of which Serai— A place of accommodation for travellers, so 
has never been satisfactorily ascertained. named by the Mahomiuedans j the Hindoos call it 

Peon, — A footman or foot soldier, generally employed Choultry and Dhurrumsalla. 

• in the revenue or police. Seyubghal — A jaghire assignment, usually for life. 

Peer — A Mahommedan saint* on certain lands for the whole or part of the 

Pbrgunnah See Circar. assessed revenue. 

Per swa — A leader ; the title of the late sovereign Shastras— Any books of instructions ; particularly 
‘ of the Poona Maharattas. containing divine ordinances.* 

Pbttah — A town or suburb adjoining a fort. Shroff — A banker or money changer. 

Pice— S mall copper coins. SuiAS—Adherents to the sect of Ah. 

Poljgabs— Small tributary landholders in the south Sirxa *— Set Circar. 
of India, who were never thoroughly subdued by St*DA*-~Cbieftain, captain, leader, 
the Mahomiuedans. Singe— A lkm; a distinctive appellation of tba 

Polum* — D istrict, held by PcUpWielao the vsl- fietries, or military caste. ' 

Bee between the Ghana. SoowaM— Tbe none of the sect of Mabommedans 



GLOSSARY. 825 

«wbo revere equally the four successors of Mahom- Thugs — A notorious class of public robbers in the 

taedj while the Shias reject the three first as upper provinces. 

usurpers. Tehsildar — A native collector of a district. 

Soubah — See Cheat, Toddy— The juice of the palm tree which in a fer- 

Soubahdar — A viceroy or governor of a large pro- mented state is intoxicating. 

vince. Also the title of a native sepoy, officer. Tooman — A small district, horde. 

S udder — The chief seat of government as contra- 
distinguished from the interior of the country. Vaisya {pronounced Bycc) — The third caste among 
Svdra — The fourth caste among the Hindoos, com- the Hindoos, comprehending the merchants, traders, 
prehending mechanics and labourers. The subdi- and cultivators, 
visions of this tribe are innumerable. Vakeel — Embassador, agent, or attorney. 

Sunnud — Patent, charter, or written authority. Vedas — Science, knowledge, the sacred scriptures of 

the Hindoos. 

Talookdabs— Are petty zemindars, some of whom 
pay their rent through a superior zemindar, while Zemindar— A landholder, a land keeper, 
others pay it directly to government. Zemindary— An estate belonging to or under th* 

Tanna — A police statiou, also a military post. jurisdiction of a zemindar. 

Tannadak — The keeper or commandant ot a Tanna. Zillah— A district or local division of a country. 



GLOSSARY. 825 

^who revere equally the four successors of Mahom- Thugs— A notorious class of public robbers in the 
tnedj while the Shias reject the three first as upper provinces, 
usurpers. Tbhsildab — A native collector of a district. 

Soubah*— Circai, Toddy— The juice of the palm tree which in a fer- 

Soubahdar — A viceroy or governor of a large pro- mented state is intoxicating. 

vince. Also the title of a native sepoy, officer. Tooman — A small district, horde. 

S udder — T he chief seat of government as contra- 
distinguished from the interior of the country. Vaisya {pronounced Byce) — The third caste among 
Svdra — T he fourth caste among the Hindoos, com- the Hindoos, comprehending the merchants, traders, 
prehending mechanics and labourers. The subdi- and cultivators, 
visions of this tribe are innumerable. Vakeel — Embassador, agent, or attorney. 

Sunnud — Patent, chatter, or Airitlen authority. Vedas — Science, knowledge, the sacred scriptures of 

the Hindoos. 

Talookdars— A re petty zemindars, some of whom 
pay their rent through a superior zemindar, while Zemindar— A landholder, a land keeper, 
others pay it directly to government. Zemindary— An estate belonging to or under thi 

Tanna — A police statiou, also a military post. jurisdiction of a zemindar. 

Tannadar — The keeper or commandant ot a Tanna. Zillah — A district or local division of a country. 

