   #Sangam Poems Translated by Vaidehi » Feed Sangam Poems Translated by
   Vaidehi » Comments Feed Sangam Poems Translated by Vaidehi » Sangam
   Literature Comments Feed alternate alternate Sangam Poems Translated by
   Vaidehi WordPress.com

Sangam Poems Translated by Vaidehi

Sangam Poetry

     * Home
     * Akam Conventions
     * Ettuthokai - Ainkurunuru
     * Ettuthokai - Akananuru 1-120
     * Ettuthokai - Akananuru 121 - 300
     * Ettuthokai - Akananuru 301 - 400
     * Ettuthokai - Kalithokai 1-36 Palai
     * Ettuthokai - Kalithokai 101-117 Mullai
     * Ettuthokai - Kalithokai 118-150 Neythal
     * Ettuthokai - Kalithokai 37-65 Kurinji
     * Ettuthokai - Kalithokai 66-100 Marutham
     * Ettuthokai - Kurunthokai 1-200
     * Ettuthokai - Kurunthokai 201-400
     * Ettuthokai - Natrinai 1-200
     * Ettuthokai - Natrinai 201-400
     * Ettuthokai - Paripadal
     * Ettuthokai - Pathitruppathu
     * Ettuthokai - Purananuru 1-200
     * Ettuthokai - Purananuru 201-400
     * Historical References
     * Pathuppattu - Kurinjippattu
     * Pathuppattu - Malaipadukadam
     * Pathuppattu - Mathuraikkanji
     * Pathuppattu - Mullaippattu
     * Pathuppattu - Nedunalvadai
     * Pathuppattu - Pattinappalai
     * Pathuppattu - Perumpanatruppadai
     * Pathuppattu - Porunaratruppadai
     * Pathuppattu - Sirupanatruppadai
     * Pathuppattu - Thirumurukatruppadai
     * Sangam Literature
     * Sangam Poets and Poems
     * Tholkappiyam
     * ¤®¿´ ° - ¨¾©±
     * ¤®¿´ ° - ±¨±
     * ¤®¿´ ° - ²¿¤¤
     * ¤®¿´ ° - ±¿¿ªª¾
     * ¤®¿´ ° - ±¨¤
     * ¤®¿´ ° - ¿±ª¾£¾±±ªª
     * ¤®¿´ ° - ¨±±¿£
     * ¤®¿´ ° - ¨¨²µ¾
     * ¤®¿´ ° - ª¿©ªª¾²
     * ¤®¿´ ° - ª¤¿±±ªª¤¤
     * ¤®¿´ ° - ª±¨¾©±
     * ¤®¿´ ° - ®²²ªª¾
     * ª±¨¾©±±¤ ¤¿£³
     * ª±¨¾©±±¤ ¤¿£³, ¤±³
     * ª±¨¾©±±¤ ¤±³

Sangam Literature

                        Sangam Literature - ¾©±° ¯¯³

   Ancient commentators referred to Sangam literature as ¾©±° ¯¯³, the
   verses of the wise.  Sangam poetry laid down the foundation for the
   entire Tamil poetic tradition that has flourished for over two thousand
   years.  It is the root of the massive Tamil literary tree from which
   branches have spread in many different directions.  The predominantly
   secular Sangam poems influenced the later religious works of Jain,
   Buddhist, Saivite and Vaishnavite poets.  The universality of emotions,
   which are revealed through the natural elements of the five landscapes,
   has made the poetry timeless, and for all cultures.

   There are a total of 18 Sangam Tamil books -  Ten long songs
   (Pathuppattu) and eight anthologies ( Ettuthokai), for a total of 2381
   poems written by 473 poets (30 were female poets), and including 102
   poems written by anonymous authors.  There are 33,204 lines of poetry.
    16 poets are responsible for about 50% of the total production (1177
   out of the 2279 non-anonymous poems).  They are Kapilar, Ammoovanar,
   Orampokiyar, Peyanar, Othalanthaiyar, Paranar, Maruthan Ilanakanar,
   Palai Padiya Perunkadunko, Avvaiyar, Nallanthuvanar, Nakkeerar,
   Ulochanar, Mamoolanar, Kayamanar, Perunkundrur Kilar and Perisathanar.
   Scholars differ on the period of the Sangam books, but many agree that
   they are between 300 B.C. and 300 A. D.   The literature is secular for
   the most part.  There are some references to Murukan, Kotravai, Sivan,
   Thirumal, Indiran and Brahman. The poets, both men and women, came from
   all backgrounds - kings, noble men, learned men, doctors, businessmen,
   teachers, metal smiths, goldsmiths, cattle  herders etc. etc.   In
   addition, there is Tholkappiyam, the ancient text.  Most of it was
   written before the poems.  However, some parts were written later.

   The word Sangam is not Tamil.  It is not used in Sangam literature.  A.
   K. Ramanujan wrote, "It means an academy or fraternity.   The word is
   probably borrowed from the vocabulary of Buddhism and Jainism, the two
   religions competing with Hinduism in the 6th and 7th centuries in South
   India".  The earliest mention of the word is in Appar's `Thirupputhur
   Thandavam' in the 7th century and in Nakkeerar's commentary on
   Iraiyanar Akapporul dated 7th - 8th centuries.   In A. K. Ramanujan's
   words, "This spurious name Sangam for the poetry is justified not by
   history, but by poetic practice."   George Hart wrote in his `The Poems
   of Ancient Tamil' that the word is from Sanskrit `samgha'.

   Sangam Age:   The beginnings of Sangam literature date back to many
   centuries before Christ.  There are many proofs that the bulk of the
   literature was written from 150 B.C. to 300 A.D.  There is not a single
   reference to the Pallavas who established their rule in Kanchi around
   275 A.D.; they must have been written before the Pallava arrival.
   Also, we have detailed description of foreign trade, especially with
   Greece, found in these poems, with descriptions of their ships, their
   gold coins, wines etc.  The trade did not continue past the 3^rd
   century A.D.  We have the accounts and observations of Greek and Roman
   writers like the author of Periplus (A.D. 70), Pliny (A.D. 78), and
   Ptolemy (A.D. 140), which have elaborate descriptions of many cities
   and ports in the Tamil country.  The Sri Lankan king Gajabahu I and
   Cheran Chenguttuvan of Pathitruppathu were contemporaries.  King
   Gajabahu reigned from 173 to 195 A.D.  This Gajabahu synchronism is
   accepted by most scholars today.  Iravatham Mahadevan has shown that
   the inscriptions at Pukalur, which can be dated to 200 A.D. mentions
   the names of Chera kings who appear in Pathitruppathu.  There are 4
   references to Mauryan incursions into Tamil Nadu.  The Mauryas ruled
   from 322 B.C. and 182 B.C.

   Other Dravidian Literature:  Other Dravidian literature came much
   later.  The one that came after Tamil is Kannada, and that did not
   happen for at least 1,200 years.  To quote Kamil Zvelebil, "the first
   narrative Kannada literature is Sivakoti's Vaddaradhane in 900 A.D.
   Telugu literature as we know it begins with Nannaya's translation of
   Mahabharatha in the 11th century A.D.  In Malayalam, Unnunili Sandesam,
   an anonymous poem of the 14th century, is based on the models of
   Sandesa or Duta poems; its very language is true manipravalam, which is
   defined in the earliest Malayalam grammar (15th century Lilathilakam)
   as the union of Malayalam and Sanskrit."

   Epigraphical evidences in Tamil-Brahmi:  The Mangulam cave inscriptions
   were first noted in 1882, observed again in 1906 and determined in 1965
   by Iravatham Mahadevan to have inscriptions from the 2^nd century B.C.
   The inscriptions record the gift of a monastery to Nanta-siri Kuvan, a
   senior Jaina monk.  Two of the caves have inscriptions about King
   Neduncheliyan.

   The Jambai cave inscription etched in Tamil-Brahmi and dated the 1^st
   century A.D. was discovered in 1981 by the Archaelogical Department.
   It states that the hermitage was given by Athiyaman Neduman Anji.  It
   records the grant of the cave on the north bank of the South Pennar
   River near Thirukoyilur in Vilupparam district by Athiyaman Neduman
   Anji, who was one of the seven great vallal kings of ancient Tamil
   Nadu.

   The discovery of cave inscriptions from the 2^nd century A.D. was made
   at Pugalur in 1928. Pugalur is situated on the south bank of River
   Kaviri about 15 km. northwest of Karur, the ancient Chera capital,
   which is in modern Karur district.  However, its historical
   significance was only recognized almost four decades later, in 1965.
   Out of the 12 inscriptions, 2 refer to the Chera royal family.  Both of
   these inscriptions record the construction of a rock shelter for
   Cenkayapan, a senior Jaina monk when Ilankadunko, the son of
   Perunkatunkon the son of King Athan Selirumporai, became the heir
   apparent.  Iravatham Mahadevan has shown that the inscriptions at
   Pukalur bear the names of the Chera kings who appear in Pathitruppathu.

   Influence of Sanskrit:  There is another important difference between
   Tamil and the other Dravidian literary languages:  the meta language of
   Tamil has always been Tamil, never Sanskrit.   As A.K. Ramanujan says
   (in Language and Modernization, p. 31), "In most Indian languages, the
   technical gobbledygook is Sanskrit; in Tamil, the gobbledygook is
   ultra-Tamil."  Kamil Zvelebil explains that there are traces of Aryan
   influence in early Tamil, just as the very beginnings of the Rig Vedic
   hymns show traces of Dravidian influence.  He writes in his book, `The
   Smile of Murugan', "Historically speaking, from the point of
   development of Indian literature as a single complex, Tamil literature
   possesses at least two unique features.  First, it is the only Indian
   literature which is, at least in its beginnings and in its first and
   most vigorous bloom, is almost entirely independent of Aryan and
   specifically Sanskrit influences.   Second, Tamil literature is the
   only Indian literature which is both classical and modern, while it
   shares antiquity with much of Sanskrit literature and is as classical,
   in the best sense of the word, as e.g. the ancient Greek poetry, it
   continues to be vigorously living modern writing of our days."

   Oral Tradition to Anthologies:  Scholars believe that the poems were
   gathered into anthology form as early as the 8th century A.D., at a
   time when Buddhist and Jaina sanghas existed in the Tamil country, and
   hence the name `Sangam'.

   The poems started out as oral tradition which must have gone on for a
   very long time.  They reached a high level of sophistication even many
   centuries B.C.  The process is the creative act first, when the texts
   are composed.  Next is the oral transmission of the texts.  Following
   is the editing and codification of the anthologies. The colophons were
   added to the poems a couple of hundred years after the poems, around
   the 5^th century A.D.  Finally, commentaries were written around the
   13^th and 14^th centuries.

   Ancient Commentaries:  The extant ancient commentaries for the Sangam
   poems were written about a thousand years later.  The language of the
   commentaries is quite hard, and often, more difficult than the original
   text.  Ancient commentators had difficulties with ambiguous texts, much
   like we have today.  Also, they sometimes offer moral opinions,
   depending on the society which existed around them at that point of
   time.  Some of the modern commentators have also followed that
   complicated style of writing, thereby limiting the poems to Tamil
   scholars.  However, there are recent commentaries that have been
   written in easily readable formats.

   ²¿¯ ª´¯ ° ¨²³ - Ancient Commentaries for the Sangam books:

   ±¨± - Ainkurunuru:  There is an ancient 13th century A.D. anonymous
   commentary.  However, it is not a detailed one.
   ±¨¤ - Kurunthokai:  Tradition says that Perasiriyar and
   Nachinarkkiniyar wrote commentaries, neither of which have been found.
   ¨±±¿£ - Natrinai:  No ancient commentary is available.
   ¨¾©± - Akananuru:  There is an ancient commentary for the first 90
   poems, probably written in the 12th century A.D.
   ª¤¿±±ªª¤¤ - Pathitruppathu:  It has an old, brief commentary which is
   probably later than the 12th century A.D.
   ª±¨¾©± - Purananuru:  An old commentary probably from the 12th century
   is available for the first 266 poems.
   ª¤¤ªª¾ - Pathuppattu:  Nachinarkkiniyar wrote full-fledged commentaries
   for the 10 long songs in the 14th century A.D.
   ª°¿ª¾² - Paripadal:  Parimelalakar wrote a full-fledged commentary in
   the 13th century A.D.
   ²¿¤¤ - Kalithokai:  Nachinarkkiniyar wrote a full-fledged commentary in
   the 14th century A.D.

   ¤²¾ªª¿¯¤¤¿© ª´¯ °³ - Ancient Commentaries for Tholkappiyam:

   1. ³®ª°£° - Ilampuranar:  The first available commentary was written by
   him. He was probably a Jaina scholar who lived in the 12th century A.D.
   His commentary has come down to us intact.  His style is simple and
   lucid.  Ancient scholars referred to him as `Urai Asiriyar'.

   2. ©µ°¾¯° - Senavarayar: His commentary pertains only to `Sol
   Athikaram'. It is dateable to 1275 A.D. This author contests the view
   of Pavananthi, and also questions some of the conclusions of
   Ilampuranar.

   3. ª°¾¿°¿¯° - Perasiriyar:  His date is the 13th century A.D.  His real
   name is not known.  His commentary reveals his great scholarship.

   4. ¨¿©¾°¿©¿¯° - Nachinarkkiniyar:  His style is artful, and he has a
   great poetic sense.  His commentary reveals his skills in both Tamil
   and Sanskrit. His date is probably the 14th century A.D.

   5. ¤¯µ¿²¯¾° - Theivachilaiyar:  He composed his commentary to the
   second book `Sol Athikaram', in the 16th century.

   6. ²²¾° - Kalladar:  His commentary was for the second book `Sol
   Athikaram'.  His work is dated 16th or 17th century A.D.

   Loss and Recovery:  We lost these manuscripts, which were etched on
   palm, for many centuries.  We knew of their existence since there were
   references to them in the commentaries written many centuries after the
   Sangam age.  They were buried amidst the collections of Saivite
   monasteries and some families, without anyone knowing of their
   existence.  They were re-discovered by U.V. Swaminatha Iyer (1855 -
   1942) and C. W. Thamotharam Pillai (1832 - 1901) in the late 19th
   century.  U.V. Swamintha Iyer started the process in 1883 at the
   Thiruvavaduthurai Saiva monastery, and both these men, along with the
   help of a few other scholars completed the work of editing and bringing
   them to print, over the next few decades.   But for Swaminatha Iyer,
   this process of recovery would not have started then.  We owe immense
   gratitude to him, and to all the other scholars who helped him.  They
   also edited and published the books during the last quarter of the 19th
   century and the first quarter of the 20th century.

   Nature Poetry:   Sangam poetry is nature poetry.  The elements of
   nature are intertwined with love, valor, agony, ecstasy, kindness, war,
   cruelty, honor, charity, friendship and many more facets of humanity.
   The Sangam poets never lost sight of the physical world around them.
   Keenly observing nature, they brought to life the fauna and flora, and
   used them effectively in almost every poem, to reveal human emotions
   and situations, thereby creating beautiful vignettes.  There are over
   one hundred flowers described in the poems.  One can travel back in
   time and see many mammals, reptiles, insects, birds, bushes, vines,
   flowers, mountains, forests, ponds, waterfalls, rivers and streams in
   the Tamil country.  The sky with the constellations, sun, moon, stars
   and planets are also used effectively. The tiny red velvet bugs of the
   rainy season, to the mighty elephant in the jungle, are part of the
   drama.  A piece of foam dashing on the rocks in a flooding stream and
   losing itself little by little, is used to describe the heroine fading
   away in pain in Kurunthokai 290.

   Secular Poetry:   Sangam literature is mostly secular, reflecting the
   early strata of the Tamil culture.  However, even the earlier works
   Natrinai, Kurunthokai, Akananuru, Ainkurunuru, Pathitruppathu and
   Purananuru have a few references to gods.  Paripadal has many hymns for
   Murukan and Thirumal.  Thirumurukatruppadai was written for Murukan.
   Perunthevanar's invocation poems were added to Purananuru, Natrinai,
   Kurunthokai and Akananuru, around the 8^th century when the texts were
   compiled into anthologies. However, only in Purananuru, it is inserted
   as poem 1, and is made to be part of the anthology.

   Akam:  Poems that view life from inside the family, and concern the
   love between man and woman.  About 78% of the poems are in the Akam
   Thinai.

   Puram:  Poems that view life from outside the family, and deal with
   topics such as the king, heroism, battle, ethics, and the life of
   wandering bards and poets.

   According to Nachinarkkiniyar in his Tholkappiyam commentary (Porul
   56), `Akam' and `Puram' are like the inner palm and back side of the
   hands, respectively, when the palms are held together.   It could not
   have been explained any better, other than with the Tamil `vanakkam'
   symbol.

   The Eight Anthologies - ¤¤ - Ettuthokai

   "¨±±¿£ ¨²² ±¨¤, ±¨±,
   ¤¤ ª¤¿±±ªª¤¤ ª°¿ª¾²,
   ±±±¿¨¤¾° ¤¤® ²¿¯, ®, ª±® ©±
   ¤¤¿±¤¤ ¤¤".

   The eight anthologies consist of poems divided into two broad
   categories - Akam (interior) and Puram (exterior - king, heroism,
   battle, ethics and wandering bards and poets).   Purananuru and
   Pathitruppathu are the only two that belong to Puram category.

   1. ¨±±¿£ - Natrinai:  This anthology has 400 poems written by 175
   poets.  The poems have 8-13 lines.  Poem 234 is missing, and only parts
   of 395 have been recovered.  There are 59 references to historical
   incidents.

   2. ±¨¤ - Kurunthokai:  This anthology has 400 poems written by 205
   poets.  The poems have 4-8 lines.  U.V.Swamintha Iyer's edition has
   401. One poem must have been added later, possibly the invocatory
   poem.  There are 27 historical references in Kurunthokai.

   3. ±¨± - Ainkurunuru:  This is an anthology with 500 short poems, as
   the title indicates. The poems have 3-6 lines.  It is arranged in five
   sections, each of 100 verses, each dealing with once facet of Akam -
   Kurinji, Neythal, Marutham, Mullai and Palai.  Within the main 5
   divisions, the poems are sets of 10 with thematic headings as `Monkeys,
   boars, peacocks etc. etc.).  Each set of 10 poems are based on a single
   topic.  It has 17 historical references.

   Kapilar wrote the Kurinji poems, Orampokiyar wrote the Marutham poems,
   Ammoovanar wrote the Neythal poems, Peyanar wrote the Mullai poems and
   Othalanthaiyar wrote the palai poems.

   4. ª¤¿±±ªª¤¤ - Pathitruppathu:  This has 80 poems (out of an original
   100) and they belong to the Puram category.  The name means, `The ten
   tens'. It deals with the exploits and achievements of just one dynasty
   - The Cheras.  It is unique in that sense since it is exclusively
   devoted to the Cheras.  The poems have 8-56 lines

   The kings described in this collection are Imayavarampan
   Neduncheralathan (11-20), Palyanai Selkelu Kuttuvan (21-30),
   Kalankaykanni Narmudicheral (31-40), Kadal Pirakottiya Chenguttuvan
   (41-50), Adukotpattu Cheralathan (51-60), Selvakkadungo Valiyathan
   (61-70), Perumcheral Imruporai (71-80), and Ilancheral Irumporai
   (81-90).

   Each set of ten has been appended with a `pathikam' (epilog), which
   furnishes us with details of the author, the hero, his lineage etc.
   These epilogs have been added much later, but it appears that the
   historical information they provide could have been drawn from earlier
   resources.

   5. ª°¿ª¾² - Paripadal:  This is unique among Sangam books, since it has
   both Akam and Puram poems.  It is one of the later anthologies.  The
   collection has 22 poems.  The poems have 32-140 lines. The topics for
   the poems are Thirumal, Murukan, and Vaikai River.

   6. ²¿¤¤ - Kalithokai:   This later anthology has 150 poems in the kali
   meter, of 12 to 80 lines by 5 poets, each of whom has treated a
   different Akam theme. S. V. Damodaram Pillai who found these original
   manuscripts and wrote the commentary for them, believed that the entire
   book was the work of one poet and that it was written a couple of
   centuries later than the other books.  Also, the prolific Sangam poet
   Kapilar lived a few centuries earlier than the `Kapilar' who wrote the
   Kurinji poems in this collection. Either there are two Kapilars, or the
   Kurinji poems were erroneously assigned to Kapilar since he was a
   Kurinji Thinai expert.  The poems have 11-80 lines.

   Dr. Kamil Zvelebil is also of the view that the whole book was written
   by one person in the Pandiyan kingdom. K.N. Sivaraja Pillai,
   Rajamanickam, Takanobu Takahashi and others hold the same view.

   What we see in the modern editions, are Kapilar for Kurinji, Palai
   Padiya Perunkadungo for Palai, Nallanthuvanar for Neythal, Nalluthiran
   for Mullai and Marutham Ilanakanar for Marutham.

   7.  ¨¾©± - Akananuru:  This anthology has 400 poems written by 142
   poets.  This anthology has also been called `Nedunthokai Nanuru' since
   the poems are long.   All the poems are in Akam thinai, as the name
   implies.  The poems are from 13 to 31 lines, and they have all reached
   us intact.  There are 288 historical allusions.

   8. ª±¨¾©± - Purananuru: It has 400 poems and they deal with Puram
   (exterior).  The poems were written by both male and female poets.  The
   poems are 4 to 40 lines, and are composed by 156 poets.  There were 14
   kings, and 15 women among these poets.  The female poet Avvaiyar wrote
   33 poems.

   Praising the Kings:  There are a total of 138 poems which praise the 43
   kings belonging to the three great dynasties: Chera, Chola and
   Pandiya.  There are 141 poems in praise of 48 small-region kings - the
   main ones are Athiyaman Neduman Anji, Vel Pari, Ay Andiran, Pekan,
   Kumanan, Kari, Nanjil Valluvan, Pittan Kotran and Elini. There are 121
   poems whose heroes are unknown due to missing words, defective
   colophons, fragmentary nature of the poems etc.

   The Ten Long Songs - ª¤¤ªª¾ - Pathuppattu

   "¤¿°®° ª°¨¾± ª¾£¿°£ ®²²
   ª° µ³ ®¤°¾¿ - ®°µ¿©¿¯
   ² ¨¨²µ¾ ² ±¿¿ ª¿©ª
   ª¾² ¾¤¤® ª¤¤".

   These are long poems which are of 103 to 782 lines, and they do not
   totally fit well into the Akam (interior) and Puram (exterior)
   categories, except for Kurunjippattu which is considered to be Akam.

   1.  ¤¿°®°¾±±ªª - Thirumurukatruppadai:  This song has 317 lines in the
   Asiriyappa/Akaval meter, and was written by the poet Nakkeerar for
   Murukan.

   2.  ª°¨°¾±±ªª - Porunaratruppadai:  This song has 248 lines in
   Asiriyappa/Akaval meter.  It was written by Mudathamakkaniyar.  One
   bard guides another bard to go to king Cholan Karikalan.

   3.  ¿±ª¾£¾±±ªª - Sirupanatruppadai:   This song has 269 lines in
   Asiriyappa/Akaval meter, and was written by Nathathanar.  One bard
   guides another bard to go to king Nalliyakodan.

   4. ª°®ª¾£¾±±ªª - Perumpanatruppadai:   This song has 500 lines in
   Asiriyappa/Akaval meter.  It was written by Kadiyalur
   Urithirankannanar.  One bard guides another bard to go to king
   Thondaiman Ilanthiraiyan.

   5.  ®²²ªª¾ - Mullaippattu:  This song has 103 lines in
   Asiriyappa/Akaval meter, and was written by poet Nappoothanar. The king
   is Thalaiyalankanathu Cheruvendra Neduncheliyan.

   6.  ®¤°¾¿ - Mathuraikanchi:   This song has 782 lines in the
   Asiriyappa/Akaval meter, and was written by poet Mangudi Maruthanar,
   for the Pandiyan king Neduncheliyan.

   7.  ¨¨²µ¾ - Nedunalvadai:  This song has 188 lines in Asiriyappa/Akaval
   meter, and was written by poet Nakkeeranar (son of Madurai
   Kanakkayanar), and the king is unknown.  Some scholars speculate that
   the king is Pandiyan, since there is a description of neem leaves tied
   to spears.

   8.  ±¿¿ªª¾ - Kurinjippattu:   This song has 261 lines in
   Asiriyappa/Akaval meter and was written by Kapilar for the north Indian
   king Brahadatha.  This song describes the Tamil mountain country, its
   fauna and flora, and its marriage customs.

   9.  ª¿©ªª¾² - Pattinappalai:   This song has 301 lines.  There are 153
   lines in Vanji meter and 138 lines in Asiriyappa/Akaval meter.  It was
   written by Kadiyalur Urithirankannanar.  The king was Cholan Karikalan.

   10.  ®²ª¾® - Malaipadukadam (also known as Kootharatruppadai -
   ¤¤°¾±±ªª):   This song has 583 lines in the Asiriyappa/Akaval meter,
   and was written by Perunkousikanar.  One bard guides another bard to go
   to king Nannan Venman.

   ¤¿£ - Thinai:  There are seven thinai classifications in Puram, and
   five in Akam. (There are 2 more Akam thinais which are rarely used, and
   are seen only in the later Kalithokai poems.  They are Kaikilai and
   Perunthinai which deal with one sided love, and are not regarded as
   pure Akam by scholars).

   ª±¤¤¿£ - Puram Thinais:  These seven thinais have been named after
   flowers.  These are Vetchi, Vanji, Ulignai, Thumpai, Vakai, Kanji and
   Padan.  Vetchi is cattle raid, Vanji is preparation for war and
   invasion, Ulignai is siege, Thumpai is battle, Vakai is victory, Kanji
   is tragedy, and Padan is praise.

   According to the Tholkappiyam, there are 7 thinais for Puram poems -
   Vetchi, Vanji, Ulignai, Thumpai, Vakai, Kanji and Padan.   However,
   they do not agree with what we find in Purananuru.  Purananuru has 11
   thinais - Karanthai,  Kanji, Kaikkilai, Thumpai, Nochi, Padan,
   Perunthinai, Pothuviyal, Vanji, Vakai and Vetchi.  The Ulignai thinai
   from Tholkappiyam is not in Purananuru.

   The Puram thinai poems are spoken by the poet himself, and frequently
   associated with real persons, places and events in history.

   ¤¤¿£ - Akam Thinais:   Here are five thinais, and they are named after
   flowers and trees.  These are Kurinji, Mullai, Marutham, Neythal and
   Palai.  In addition to the plant that gives it its name, each of these
   five Akam thinais is associated with a certain kind of land, flora and
   fauna found in that land, people who live there, a season, a time of
   day and a situation in the development or fulfillment of love between a
   man and a woman.  The poets have used Akam thinais to achieve poetic
   effect, and it is very important to know them, to appreciate Sangam
   poetry.  The metaphors and similes in the poems are based on the
   elements in the particular landscape.   Fauna, flora and the very
   landscape itself is used to express the physical traits and emotions of
   the characters in the poems.

   ±¿¿ - Kurinji: (ª£°¤²® ª£°¤² ¨¿®¿¤¤®®) Mountains and adjoining lands.
   It is named after the Kurinji flower that blooms once in 12 years 0n
   mountain slopes.  Kurinji and Kanthal flowers grow in the mountains.
   Murukan is the deity of the Kurinji land, and bears, tigers and
   elephants, parrots and peacocks live there.  Wild rice, millet, and
   tubers are grown.  Sandal wood trees abound.  The mountain dwellers
   hunt, collect honey and raise millet.  Villages are called `siru kudi'
   and `kurichi'.   Springs and waterfalls abound.   Music is created with
   Kurinji lute in Kurinji tunes.

   Lovers union is the main sentiment of Kurinji thinai.  This is
   pre-marital

   The subject of the poems are usually the secret meeting of lovers,
   which might be at the millet field, or at night when the heroine slips
   out of the house evading her mother, and the mother suspects that her
   daughter is up to mischief.

   ¨¯¤² - Neythal:  (°²® °² ¨¿®¿¤¤®®) Seashore and adjoining lands.   It
   is named after the blue waterlily that grows near the seashore.  Fish
   catching and salt making is done here.  Blue waterlilies grow in the
   ponds.  Cormorants, gulls, herons and pelicans are the birds and
   crocodiles and sharks live here.   Screwpine trees (thalai) grow, and
   there are water wells and salt water ponds.  Villages are called
   `pattinam' and `pakkam'.  Music is created with vilari lute in sevvali
   tunes.

   Anxious waiting is the theme of Neythal thinai.  This could be
   pre-marital or post-marital.

   The subject is often separation, during which the unmarried woman
   believes that her lover has abandoned her.  Occasionally, Neythal poems
   concern the journey of the hero along the beach in his chariot as he
   comes to see his beloved.

   ª¾², Palai:  (ª¿°¿¤²® ª¿°¿¤² ¨¿®¿¤¤®®) Dry wilderness and adjoining
   lands.  It is named after the Palai tree which grows in very dry
   areas.   Tigers, red foxes, vultures, eagles and pigeons live in this
   palai land.  Irruppai, omai and ulignai trees are in this land.  The
   common flowers are kuravam and pathiri.   There are robberies on the
   wasteland paths.   Villages are `kurumpu' and `paranthalai'.  Water
   sources are dried springs and there are ring wells.  Music is created
   with palai lute in panchuram tunes.

   Separation is the theme of Palai.  This could be pre-marital or
   post-marital.

   The hero sets out across the wilderness to elope with his beloved, or
   goes alone to make enough money to marry her on his return.
   Occasionally the hero is married and undertakes a journey for business
   purposes.   The time is midday and the season is summer.

   ®²² - Mullai: (°¤¤²® °¤¤² ¨¿®¿¤¤®®) Forest and adjoining lands.  It is
   named after jasmine, and the vine grows wild in forest areas,
   especially in the rainy seasons.  Cattle herds, deer, rabbits, and wild
   fowl live there.  Wild grain and millet is grown. Flowers are jasmine
   and thondral, trees are kondrai and kaya, and villages are `padi' and
   `cheri'.  Music is created with Mullai lute in sathari tunes.  Forest
   streams are active in the rainy season.

   Patient waiting is the theme of Mullai.  This could be pre-marital or
   post-marital.

   The heroine waits for her man to return from a journey. Some poems in
   this category describe union. All concern the fertility of the rainy
   season in the forest meadows. Rainy season is the period. The time is
   usually evening.

   ®°¤® - Marutham: (²® ² ¨¿®¿¤¤®®)  Paddy fields and adjoining lands.  It
   is named after flowering Marutham trees which grows in agricultural
   areas.  White and red rice are grown, water buffalo is the animal, and
   lotus and lilies are the flowers.  The trees are Vanji, Kanchi and
   Marutham.  Settlements are `perur' and `moothur'.  Wells, ponds,
   rivers, and streams are all over the place.  The birds here are
   pelican, waterfowl and goose.  Marutham lute is used create Marutham
   tunes.   People work in the fields planting, weeding and cutting the
   rice stalks.

   Infidelity is the theme of Marutham.  This is post-marital for the most
   part.

   After marriage and usually after the couple have a son, the hero leaves
   his wife and begins to live with courtesans, or visits them regularly.
   The time is day.

   Understanding Akam thinais:  It is very important to understand this to
   enjoy Akam poems.  Each Akam thinai consists of three components -
   Muthal, Karu and Uri.   Muthal consists of basic elements such as a
   tract of land, a season, a time of day or night.  Karu consists of the
   flora and fauna in that tract, its inhabitants, their occupations etc.
   Uri is the aspect peculiar to each landscape; more specifically, the
   feelings, deeds and situations of the dramatis personae in love poetry.

   Comparing Akam and Puram thinais:  Akam means `that which is inside'
   and Puram means, `that which is outside', and they are the two sides of
   Sangam poetry.  For each Akam thinai, there is a coinciding Puram
   thinai.

   The Puram poem is spoken by the poet, and has names, places and events
   of history.  The Akam poems are spoken by the hero, his friend,
   heroine, her friend (tholi), the friend's mother (foster mother-
   sevili), the heroine's real mother, the courtesan and the passer-by.

   The two genres differ from each other not only in theme, but also in
   technique.  Akam poems make much use of images suggesting a mood and a
   situation, while Puram poems do not and are more straightforward.  For
   Akam, the mood and the situation are closely associated with each
   thinai, but, for Puram, the association is less.  In Akam poetry,
   themes described in poems are connected with each other, and, taken as
   a whole, form a `love drama'; each scene depicted in Puram poems is a
   solitary one and not connected with each other.  Puram poetry is far
   less conventional than Akam poetry, and its subject matter is easier to
   understand.  Akam poems have many similes and metaphors, and fauna and
   flora are used to express situations and human emotions.

   Snapshot of life two thousand years ago:  The 2381 Sangam poems reveal
   many vivid images of the Tamil country from two thousand years ago.  We
   see the fauna and flora in all the five landscapes, food people ate,
   clothing that people in different geographical regions wore - mountain
   dwellers wore grass and flower garments and others wore woven cotton
   and silk clothes, jewelry made with gold and precious stones, the lives
   of bards, dancers and musicians who played instruments, cattle herders
   playing their flutes, the various musical instruments, battles and
   warriors, trading with the Greeks and Romans whose large ships arrived
   in ports,  just reigns of small-region kings, great friendships between
   poets and kings,  the three great kings who battled with each other
   constantly, the seven great donors and small region kings, trades
   people did in the different landscapes, war equipment,  forts with
   moats, existence of metal smith workshops, knowledge of the sky - the
   Sun, Moon, Venus, Mars, Saturn, Mercury, Jupiter, comets and many
   constellations, casting of bronze bells using the lost wax method,
   building of a small curved dam,  the heat and wafting aroma from sugar
   mills, using scissors for cutting hair, lizard omens, bird omens, an
   occasional kindness of a hunter who lets the bird he trapped fly away,
   and even the kindness of a ruthless, wild killer animal letting its
   prey with young ones to get away.

   Some Interesting Conventions and Facts that might help new readers:
   1. Snakes are attacked by thunder, which chops off their heads and
   kills them.
   2. Snakes spit sparkling gems.
   3. Pearls drop off the tusks of elephants.
   4. A tiger will not eat a prey if it does not fall on its right side.
   5. Women in love get yellow pallor spots on their bodies, and their
   eyes become pale and yellow. Their shoulders and arms become thin.
   Bangles fall off their wrists.
   6. There is a mythical creature called asunam. The University of Madras
   lexicon defines asunam as a creature believed to be so susceptible to
   harmony, that when it is fascinated by notes of music, a sudden loud
   beat of the drum causes its instantaneous death.
   7. There is a mighty animal Ali, which kills elephants. It could be a
   hyena or a lion.
   8. The heroine's friend is sometimes the voice of the heroine and she
   tells the hero what the heroine wants to tell him. It is because of an
   old convention which is in the Tholkappiyam, that the heroine cannot
   utter her love feelings directly to the hero. This convention comes
   from ancient oral tradition.
   9. Both the mother and foster mother refer to the heroine as `my
   daughter'.
   10. The speakers of Puram poems are the poets. The speakers of Akam
   poems are the hero, heroine, heroine's friend, heroine's mother,
   heroine's foster mother, hero's charioteer, hero's concubine and
   passers-by, when the hero and heroine are in the wasteland.
   11. The fathers and brothers of the heroine have never been speakers of
   any poem. However, they are referred to in the poems.
   12. When the heroine refuses to respond to the hero, he climbs on a
   palmyra stem horse (madal eruthal, meaning climbing on a palmyra stem
   or frond) and has it pulled through town for people to see and the
   heroine to be embarrassed. He does that as a last resort as a jilted
   lover, if the heroine refuses his love.
   13. When the heroine is lovesick and thin, her mother fears that she's
   afflicted with a disease because of the wrath of Murukan, and brings a
   diviner to her house to appease Murukan, the mountain deity. The
   diviner (Velan) uses molucca beans and divines, offers a goat as
   sacrifice, ties a talisman on the heroine's arms and does frenzied
   ritual dances on freshly laid sand in the front yard of the house that
   is decorated with flowers.
   14. There is not a word in the English language for `virali'. A virali
   is a female artist who performs dances and also sings. She belongs to
   the bard's family. She is the bard's wife in some poems.
   15. A demon protects wounded warriors on the battlefield, when they
   have nobody to guard them. This convention comes from Tholkappiyam
   Purathinai Iyal.
   16. Young women are described as having `bright forehead', `sharp
   teeth', `thick, dark hair', `fragrant hair, `deer-like looks',
   `bamboo-like arms', `swaying walk', `delicate shoulders' etc. These
   phrases are repeated quite often in the poems. Young girls drew designs
   on their breasts and shoulders, and these were called thoyyil.
   17. Morphemes are often used in the poems. These are words that
   function with nouns and verbs, and have no independent existence (²).
   The Tholkappiyam describes the different morphemes and the situations
   where they can be used. They are: ®©, ¤¿², ©, ®, , , ©, ©±, ®±±, ±±,
   ®±±¯¤, ®©±, ¤®, ¨¤¿², ², ², °, ®¾, ®¿¯¾, , ®, ®¤¿, ®, ¿©, ®®, , ª²®,
   ¯¾, ¾, ª¿±, ª¿±, °, ª, ®¾¤.
   18. There are references to Yavanas (Greek Ionians). They brought wine,
   served as body guards to kings, were merchants who brought us female
   figurine lamps with cupped hands as oil wells - ª¾µ µ¿³ in
   Perumpanatruppadai 316-317, and had goose lamps on posts in
   Nedunalvadai 101-103.  There are references to Aryans in a couple of
   poems -  Tamil kings repelling attacks of the Aryans, Aryans training
   wild elephants, Aryan acrobats performing on ropes etc. There are also
   few references to Mauryan incursions into Tamil Nadu.

   Words used to describe the hero in Marutham poems: ¤£¤± °©, ¤±´ °©,
   £¿¤¤± °©, ®¿´¨©, ¤££® ¤±µ©, ®²²² °©, ª¯ °©, ¯¾£° °©, ¤± ¨£¿ °©, ª² °©,
   ´©¿ °©, ª©² £¿ °©, µ£ ¤¾¤ ¤® °©, ª©² ®±± °©, ª´© °©, ¨² µ¯² °©, ª°®,
   ´¨©, ²¿ ®¿´ °©

   Words used to describe the hero in Neythal poems: £©, ¤±µ©, ¤££® ¤±µ©,
   ®²²®ª²®ª©, °´¿ °ªª©, °µ¨° °ªª©, ¤£² °ªª©, ¤£² °ªª©, ª°² °ªª©, ¾©² ¤±µ©,
   ª°®¤± °ªª©, ª²µ¨° °ªª©,   ¨¨° °ªª©, ¨³¿² °ªª©, ¤ ®£² °ªª©, ¤£ª©² °ªª©,
   ®£² °ªª©, ¤¿° ¤°® ¤²µ©, ¤¾´ °ªª©, ¤µ¨¿² °ªª©, ¯°®£² °ªª©, µ¾°®£² °ªª©,
   µ¿°¿¨° °ªª©, £©, ¤® ª¾¯ ¤±µ©, ª©¿¤¤± °ªª©, ®²¿ ¤¿° °ªª©, ® ¾©² ¤±µ©, ²
   ¨°¤ ¤±´ £©, ¾©² ® ª°¨¤± °ªª©, ®²¿ ¨° °ªª©, ª©¿ ¨° °ªª©, ª°® ªµ ¨°¤
   ¤±µ©, ¤£ ² ª°¨©, ¾©² °ªª©, µ° ¤¿®¿² ££® ¤±µ©, µ³ ®¯ ª°ªª©, µµ ®£² °ªª©,
   ª´ ª²®ª©

   Words used to describe the hero in Kurinji poems:  ®² ¿´µ©, ®² ¨¾©, ¨®²
   ¨¾©, ¿´µ®, ª°µ° ¨¾©, µ±ª©, ®² ¨¾©, ²² µ±ª©, ² ´ ¨¾©, ª°®² ¨¾©, ª°² ¨¾©,
   ©± ¨¾©, ¾°² ¨¾©, ¨©®² ¨¾©, µ° ¨¾©, °®² ¨¾©, ´®² ¨¾©, µ¿²®² ¨¾©,  ®²
   ¿´µ©, ®¯¿² µ ¨¾©, ®´ µ¿³¯¾ ¨¾©, ®² µ±ª, ®² ´ µ±ª©, ©±´ ¨¾©,  ®¾®²
   ¿²®ª©, °²¿ µ±ª©, ²®² ¨¾©, ² ®² µ±ª©, ¯¾± ¨¿± ª°® ¨¾©, ² µ±ª©, µ¿° ®´®
   ¨¾©, ª°¨¤© ±¾² ±® ¨¾©, ¾© ¨¾©, µ±¿ ®´ ¨¾©, ¯ ®² ¨¾©, ° µ° ¨¾©, ©± ¯° ®
   ³³® ¨¾©, ª°®, ¯° µ° ¨¾©, µ¾© ¤¯ µ±ª©, ª° µ° ¤¤ ¿´µ©, ª¿±² ®² ¿´µ©, ® ®²
   ¿´µ©, ¾© ¨¾©, ¾© ¨¾©, µ°¯ ¨¾©, ©± µ±ª©, ®¾² µ° ¨¾©, ©±¤¤ ££², ¾°² ¨¾©,
   ®² ¨° °ªª, ¾© ´ ¨¾©, ® ©©¿¯ ®² ¿´µ©, ¯° µ±ª©, ®¾ ² µ±ª©

   Words used to describe the hero in Palai poems: µ¿², ¾³, ¤©±², ª°®, ±
   µ° ¨¾, ª ´ °

   Words used to describe the hero in Mullai poems: ª±µ¿© ¨¾ ¿´µ©, ®©ª²
   µªª¿© ¨¾ ¿´µ©, ¨ ¨° ª©¿¤¤± °ªª©, ª±µ£¿ ¨¾©, °²¿ µ±ª©, ª°®, ª©ª² ¨¾©, ¾©
   ´ ¨¾©, µ©ª² ¨¾©, µ°¯ ¨¾©
   Advertisements

Share this:

     * Twitter
     * Facebook
     *

Like this:

   Like Loading...

One response

    1.
   Maheswaran.P on October 17, 2013 at 10:57 am said:
       Dear Madam,
       Seen your article in Anantha Vikadan today 17 Oct 2013. Salute for
       the work done by you. Even it is interest for me to read your
       translation to gain insight in the Tamil Sangam. Maheswaran.P,
       Mylapore, Chennai 600004, TN.India

   Search for: ____________________ Search

Recent Posts

     * Vaidehi's Sangam Tamil Poetry Translations

Archives

     * May 2012

Categories

     * Uncategorized

Meta

     * Register
     * Log in
     * Entries feed
     * Comments feed
     * WordPress.com

   Advertisements

   Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.

   Close and accept Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By
   continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
   To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie
   Policy

   IFRAME: likes-master

   %d bloggers like this:
